COP 2019 GLOBAL COMPACT SUMMARY COP 2019 GLOBAL COMPACT EDITORIAL P.3 Letters from the leaders GLOBAL COMPACT P.4 Reminder of the 10 principles EuroCompliance PRESENTATION P.5 Audit Training Expertise Quality EUROCOMPLIANCE COMMITMENTS To environment P.7 To fight against corruption P.10 To human rights P.14 To labour rights P.17 2020 EXPECTATIONS P.20 ANNEX EuroCompliance Code of Conduct EDITORIAL LETTERS FROM THE LEADERS We are very pleased to share our first Communication on Active Progress and describe how we are translating, on a daily basis, our commitments to support the 10 principles of the Global Compact as a follow-up to our membership that began in April 2017. We are a very small company and, as such, our impact can be perceived as limited. However, our governance and the agility of our structure allow us to have an immediate capacity to influence. As such, it seemed essential to us, from the creation of EuroCompliance, to integrate human rights, labour law, environment, and anticorruption aspects into each of our decisions and actions. This is linked to our business, which is entirely dedicated to promoting ethics and fighting corruption. It is also the expression of our personal convictions and values, which we are committed to deploying within our company. In this way, we hope that our choices, however modest, will contribute to a positive imprint on our ecosystem and a more widespread awareness. Céleste Cornu Philippe Lesoing CEO General Manager 3 03/12/2019 THE 10 PRINCIPLES OF THE GLOBAL COMPACT HUMAN ENVIRONMENT RIGHTS cf. pages 7 to 9 cf. pages 14 to 16 1. Businesses should 7. Businesses should support and respect support a precautionary the protection of approach to internationally proclaimed environmental challenges ; human rights ; and 8. Undertake initiatives 2. Make sure that they are to promote greater not complicit in human environmental rights abuses. responsibility; and 9. Encourage the development and diffusion of environmentally LABOUR friendly technologies. cf. pages 17 to 19 3. Businesses should ANTICORRUPTION uphold the freedom cf. pages 10 to 13 of association and the effective recognition of the right to collective bargaining ; 10. Businesses should 4. The elimination of work against corruption all forms of forced and in all its forms, including compulsory labour ; extortion and bribery. 5. The effective abolition of child labour; and 6. The elimination of discrimination in respect of employment and occupation. 4 03/12/2019 PRESENTATION EUROCOMPLIANCE AUDIT EuroCompliance The certification of an anti-corruption is a body carrying management system enables our out anti-corruption customers to : programme audits • encourage a continuous improvement process ; and in particular • assess the quality of their anticertification audits corruption prevention and detection according to the systems in compliance with applicable ISO 37001 standard. laws and regulations, particularly article 17 of the Sapin law2 • communicate to their stakeholders on the commitment and maturity of their anti-corruption programmes. TRAINING EuroCompliance • intra-company, adapted to the is also a training specificities and expectations of its organisation, listed customers in terms of ethics and the fight against corruption; in the Datadock, which offers face-to• inter-companies on anti-corruption and compliance management systems face sessions : or other specific themes (handling of internal alerts, mapping of corruption risks, etc.) ; • ISO 37001 auditor qualifications (internal auditors or audit managers). 5 03/12/2019 EXPERTISE Having an activity We offer services such as : dedicated to • Tailor-made, adapted to the risks and the fight against processes of each client; corruption, we benefit from • Pragmatic, considering the constraints specialisation and of operational staff. expertise in the field. QUALITY We are committed to Our service offer is inseparable from operational excellence the team's personal values, our Code with the adoption of of Conduct (Appendix 1) and our a demanding quality commitment to adopt procedures to system. As such, we guarantee the impartiality of its decisions are the first French and the responsibility of its teams. organization, one of the first in the world, to have obtained accreditation for our ISO 37001 certification activity. accreditation no. 4-0599 , available on www.cofrac.fr 6 03/12/2019 ENGAGEMENT EUROCOMPLIANCE & ENVIRONMENT ENVIRONMENTAL PRINCIPLES As a service company, our environmental impact is moderate. However, we have identified three areas for improvement : our travel, purchasing and printing. COMMITMENT 1 Offset the carbon footprint of our travel for EuroCompliance in order I Statement to take a carbon offsetting Our main environmental impact measure. is related to our trips to our customers (training and audit activities). I Outcomes For the year 2018, I Actions EuroCompliance financed the planting of 58 trees in the Our main environmental impact Tamaguert forest in Morocco is related to our trips to our via the Reforestaction customers (training and audit association. activities). For the year 2019, In addition to a travel policy EuroCompliance financed that favours public transport the planting of 250 trees in over individual transport, and the Lacaze Forest in France.. rail over air, we have committed via the Reforestaction to carbon offsetting our travel. association. In concrete terms, we account for the carbon footprint of all the kilometres travelled by Sur reforestaction.com EuroCompliance a compensé 37 tonnes de CO2 et a planté EuroCompliance company cars 250 arbres dans sa forêt à Lacaze 2 (81) le 02 décembre 2019 and the kilometres travelled by Bénéfices générés CLIMAT train or plane by managers and 38 tonnes de CO2 stockées BIODIVERSITÉ 750 abris pour animaux créé(s) expert partners in the context SANTÉ 1 000 mois d'oxygène généré(s) 7 EMPLOI of the missions they carry out 250 heure(s) de travail créée(s) 03/12/2019 COMMITMENT 2 Favouring the dematerialization of training materials I Statement I Outcomes The majority of our printing is for our training materials, and the impact is significant (more 90% than 500 people trained per of customers have responded year) positively to our proposal have switched to electronic. media I Actions We have invited our customers to replace the delivery of paper materials with electronic delivery. To mobilize them, we offered a discount on the price of our training courses for those who would opt to stop printing, so that the approach would result in a reduction in costs for them. We launched a campaign in January 2019, offering each of our customers for whom we regularly hold training sessions to opt for paperless training materials. We are now integrating this option in our future sales proposals. 8 03/12/2019 COMMITMENT 3 Limiting our environmental impact through our purchases I Statement I Outcomes 100% Our purchases mainly consist of supplies (stationery, training materials); marketing materials (brochures, business cards, of our printing is carried pens) and services. out by a local printer with PEFC and Imprim'Vert labels (brochures, business cards, I Actions notepads, greeting cards etc.). In order to limit our EuroCompliance pens are environmental impact, it made in Europe and in has been decided for each recyclable material. purchase, however modest, Printers photocopiers have to favour local suppliers been selected in black and and to take into account the white only (no colour printing environmental impact of the possible). product (based on existing life cycle analyses, supplier labels, Selection of FSC-certified etc.). paper (external use) or recycled paper (internal use) The choice of local suppliers, in addition to the environmental benefit, aims to have an economic and social impact within our ecosystem, by involving local actors. 100% Finally, we try to adopt the of waste paper recycled right reflexes, daily, in our premises, with a particular emphasis on consumables Tea and coffee are organic and and recycling. These are fair trade ! 'small gestures' but we try to systematize them by making the choice that limits our impact whenever we can. 9 03/12/2019 ENGAGEMENT EUROCOMPLIANCE & ANTICORRUPTION PRINCIPLES FOR THE FIGHT AGAINST CORRUPTION Our core business is focused on the fight against corruption. In this respect we feel it is important to set an example in this area. COMMITMENT 1 Ensuring that our auditors adhere to our ethical principles I Statement I Outcomes We must ensure the The EuroCompliance Code of impartiality and ethics of Conduct is signed by our employees and expert partners. It is a question of principle but also of 100% sustainability: if our clients were of staff, 100% of subcontractors to doubt the independence and all members of the of our assessments, they Certification Committee. would simply turn away from EuroCompliance. The annual declaration of compliance is signed by I Actions We have adopted a Code of 100% Conduct, incorporated into of the employees and the company's articles of subcontractors who have association, which applies to carried out operations with all persons associated with EuroCompliance for the years EuroCompliance's operations. 2017 and 2018. This commitment is reinforced by the annual signing of a declaration of compliance with the requirements of the Code 10 of Conduct. 03/12/2019 COMMITMENT 2 Ensuring the impartiality of our certification process I Statement I Outcomes The greatest risk to our The Committee met in 2017 impartiality is a conflict and 2018. of interest that would unduly influence (or appear EuroCompliance to influence) one of our was accredited evaluations. by COFRAC in September 2018, I Actions accreditation To try to prevent this risk we renewed in 2019. have implemented specific ‘‘ measures, which complement the Code of Conduct: • Before the start of each engagement, stakeholders Illustrated with a quote from a are required to declare their member of the Committee As potential interests with the Legal Director of SGS France, party to be audited in a the world's leading inspection, systematic and documented analysis, testing and certification manner; group, I gladly responded to • The ISO 37001 Committee EuroCompliance's request to assesses once a year become a member of their ISO 37001 Committee a committee the measures taken by made up of various stakeholders EuroCompliance to ensure (clients, certification bodies and impartiality in particular, it anti-corruption experts). In this receives a presentation of the capacity, we meet once a year register of conflicts of interest to assess the measures taken Compliance with these by EuroCompliance to prevent commitments is verified situations that could undermine internally (via an annual their impartiality. Over the past audit of the ethics two years, I have seen a strong system) and externally via commitment by management to EuroCompliance's COFRAC prevent any conflict of interest, accreditation process. to adopt procedures aligned with best practices and to work in complete transparency. The mere fact that they submit their methodologies and choices to outside scrutiny is a sign of their determination to constantly improve their ethics policy. accreditation no. 4-0599 , 11 available on www.cofrac.fr Patrick Schwartz 03/12/2019 COMMITMENT 3 Facilitate reporting of discrepancies I Statement Given the size of our company, we considered that if a problem were to arise, it would be more easily identified by a customer or other external party than internally. Hence the choice of a fairly broad communication of our system for reporting unethical ‘‘ behaviour. I Actions We have adopted a reporting Our clients are mainly large public system that is open to all our or private organisations that stakeholders although not need to comply with applicable covered by the regulatory anti-bribery laws and implement obligations relating to alert our Reporting.Net platform. We systems. were pleasantly surprised to see that Eurocompliance's Managers I Outcomes voluntarily and proactively apply good ethical practice rules to The reporting procedures themselves, even though they (...) are easily available on are not legally obliged to do so. our website and in all the The fact that the platform is also commercial proposals issued by open to external reporting and EuroCompliance. that, for reasons of integrity, the To date we have not yet reporting issuers have been given recorded any reports. the possibility to choose to which Reporting Officer to report is a genuine Leadership by Example . Olivier Trupiano Founding President, Compliance Officer, DPO Signalement.Net 12 03/12/2019 COMMITMENT 4 Showing our determination to prevent corruption I Statement In the fight against corruption, public engagement makes sense. It makes it possible to share our policy but also to talk about a subject that is sometimes taboo. I Actions EuroCompliance wished to support a reference organisation: Transparency International, the main civil society association in the fight against corruption. Supporting the work of the association ‘‘ allows us to contribute to a recognised approach and to benefit from collective intelligence. It is in this context that we joined the Forum des As a member of Transparency Entreprises Engagées (Forum International France's Forum des of Committed Companies). Entreprises Engagées ( Forum of Committed Businesses), I Outcomes EuroCompliance supports the Our membership translates into : association's activities and is • A public statement to fight committed to rejecting and corruption on our website fighting corruption in all its forms. EuroCompliance is committed to • Regular participation in working groups ; making its best efforts to set up a solid prevention system inspired • A financial contribution. by the best practices in force in the business world. 13 03/12/2019 ENGAGEMENT EUROCOMPLIANCE & HUMAN RIGHTS HUMAN RIGHTS PRINCIPLES As a company on a human scale, located in France, we are little exposed to the risk of human rights violations in our business. Nevertheless, we consider that we have an influence on our ecosystem to defend these values in which we recognize ourselves. COMMITMENT 1 Demonstrating our commitment to human rights I Statement I Outcomes Since the creation of Version 3 of the EuroCompliance EuroCompliance, our Code Code of Conduct has of Conduct and internal been approved and widely documents have prioritised communicated. issues relating to business This update includes the concepts ethics (prevention of conflicts of fundamental human rights, of interest, impartiality, international labour standards free competition, etc.). The and new sections on diversity or consequence is that other occupational health and safety. important subjects such as (see annex). human rights have never been Our references now include the mentioned. Universal Declaration of Human Rights and the ILO fundamental I Actions conventions. Faced with this situation, we decided to revise our Code of Conduct, based on a consultation with our main stakeholders (auditors and the Impartiality Committee) to broaden the principles guiding 14 our actions. 03/12/2019 COMMITMENT 2 Promote effective and protective alerting devices I Statement I Outcomes One of the essential aspects EuroCompliance is taking of guaranteeing the defence part in the standardisation of human rights is to enable work relating to the adoption victims to be able to denounce of an international standard the human rights violations to establishing good practices which they may be subjected. for setting up an alert system In this perspective, one of the the ISO/TC309 WG 3 group in means is to promote the right charge of drawing up the next to alert. ISO 37002 Whistleblowing Management System standard. I Actions We have decided to commit ourselves to the promotion of a right of alert that is protective and as accessible as possible. 15 03/12/2019 COMMITMENT 3 Buying products and services from countries that protect human rights I Statement I Outcomes As we do not have any power Purchase of services of influence over our suppliers in terms of purchasing volumes, we have chosen local suppliers 100% local and local, French or European production. Equipment purchases I Actions 100% french or We target purchases from european manufacturing (except for telephony and suppliers where we have computer products) reasonable assurance of their good human rights practices. Vehicle purchases 100% european manufacture 16 03/12/2019 ENGAGEMENT EUROCOMPLIANCE & LABOUR RIGHTS PRINCIPLES ON LABOUR STANDARDS EuroCompliance is made up of two managers and a team of 8 expert partners. Our top priority is regulatory compliance and we are committed to respecting the various provisions of French labour law. We apply identical contractual provisions for all our expert partners, regardless of their country of establishment and the countries in which they operate. In addition, we try to offer working conditions favourable to the development of everyone, collective intelligence and good humour. COMMITMENT 1 Adopt a diversity policy I Statement I Outcomes When EuroCompliance was Breakdown of male/female created in January 2016, it executives consisted of a single profile : senior experts from the private sector, male. 50/50 I Actions Overall male/female distribution Our first objective was to enrich the diversity of the team. 2019 : 40/60 Three years later, the team has become more feminine, younger and more diversified with profiles from the public sector or the aid sector. (partial) Team meeting – March 2019 17 03/12/2019 COMMITMENT 2 Fostering sustainable and fair relationships with our subcontractors and suppliers I Statement I Outcomes The behaviour we adopt In 2019, EuroCompliance signed towards our subcontractors the Responsible Supplier Relations and suppliers has an impact Charter. on the relationship within the team and therefore on the quality of the work we deliver. Considering each person's constraints, enhancing skills and respecting payment deadlines are all important elements in guaranteeing a positive climate and quality working conditions. I Actions To improve our impact on our suppliers and subcontractors, we adopt an attitude of respect for our partners and make commitments to them. 18 03/12/2019 COMMITMENT 3 Encouraging team spirit I Statement I Outcomes We wish a united and happy Participation in the Parisienne team to collaborate on our race in 2018 and the Salonmissions. de-Provence half-marathon in 2019. I Actions This means promoting wellbeing at work and team spirit. An initiative was born with this in mind : to engage team members who wish to do so in joint sporting events. Modest results, explained by the geographical spread of the team, but encouraging. It remains to find a unifying event that is accessible to as many people as possible. 19 03/12/2019 2020 EXPECTATIONS THE AXES OF DEVELOPMENT The year 2020 also promises to be rich in projects to continue to demonstrate our commitment. We wish to consolidate the actions we have undertaken and initiate new projects. In this respect, we have identified a number of priorities : I Social Impact In order to improve our social impact, we aim to facilitate employee involvement in volunteer projects. At this stage, several options are being considered, including skills volunteering or a day of solidarity. I Safety at work Expert teams and partners are required to travel internationally, sometimes even to countries that may present health or safety risks. A process to facilitate and secure these trips will be studied. I Diversity Proud to have a team with varied and complementary profiles, and already engaged in a transfer of skills, through regular interventions in Master 2 or DU or other institutions, the managers plan to integrate a work-study student in order to open the company to the reception of young talents. I Governance EuroCompliance already submits itself to the ISO 37001 Committee for all questions relating to impartiality and encourages exchanges with its expert partners. The company's development strategy will be reinforced by a reflection on a stronger inclusion of the latter and an opening to an external view on corporate governance. 20 03/12/2019 ANNEX 03/12/2019 CODE OF CONDUCT The purpose of EuroCompliance is to contribute to business ethics by promoting the deployment of efficient anticorruption management systems through our ISO 37001 certification training and auditing activities. It therefore seemed essential to us to adopt a demanding ethical policy from the outset and to commit ourselves to our clients, our expert partners and other interested parties. The credit of a certification is notably based on the level of trust that stakeholders place in the issuing body. Our priority is therefore to be impartial in all decisions and professional in each mission entrusted to us. We are committed to preventing and managing situations of conflict of interest to which we may be exposed. This Code of Conduct lays down the principles that guide our actions. It is part of EuroCompliance's statutes and is signed by all partners, associates and subcontractors. Céleste Cornu Philippe Lesoing President General Director .2 OUR PRINCIPLES CLIENT RELATIONS EuroCompliance places client satisfaction at the heart of its missions. This Code of Conduct Partners, associates and subcontractors are committed to improving contributes to EuroCompliance’s reputation, building trust and client loyalty. They keep the EuroCompliance’s client’s best interests in mind in their commercial advice as well as in their commitment to raising its assessments and are faithful in the exercise of their missions. ethical standards in the area of business relations. To build this trust, the auditors explain the audit’s progression and quickly Without exhaustively report any difficulties encountered. They present a draft version of their covering all the risks of reports for accuracy control. unethical behaviours that we may be confronted with, it indicates the BENEVOLENCE general principles guiding our choices in EuroCompliance treats its partners, subcontractors and clients with respect. conducting our missions Auditors need clients to be cooperative and transparent to carry out audits and in our relations with interested parties (clients, under good conditions, especially for the access to key people and internal auditees, expert partners, documents. To encourage this atmosphere of trust, auditors treat their suppliers, etc.). contacts with respect in all situations and do not use intrusive methods, even in case of problem. The assessment of an anticorruption management system entails an approach based on attentiveness and continual improvement. EuroCompliance Code of Conduct .3 V3 02/12/2019 COMPLIANCE WITH LAWS AND REGULATIONS EuroCompliance complies with the laws and regulations applicable in France and the countries where it does business. In this respect, it is responsible for the company’s keeping up-to-date with the laws and regulations that apply to its business before carrying out any projects and for ensuring an understanding thereof by its partners, associates and subcontractors. EuroCompliance emphasizes the importance of respecting fundamental human rights, international labour standards (freedom of association, nondiscrimination, prevention of harassment, etc.) and anticorruption laws. SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY EuroCompliance includes social and ecological concerns in the conduct of its business and in its relations with interested parties. This commitment translates into a number of priority goals: • A policy of local sourcing – a policy with an overall positive impact (reducing our carbon footprint, local economic development, social bonds, etc.); • An approach reducing the carbon footprint of EuroCompliance’s activities – through reduction or limitation measures and carbon compensation reduction; • Responsible, sustainable relations with subcontractors and suppliers based on fair choices, transparent communication and meeting our contractual commitments within reasonable timeframes. Partners, associates and subcontractors are committed to pursuing the goals set by EuroCompliance. They are requested to propose new actions for sustainably improving the company’s impact on its ecosystem. EuroCompliance Code of Conduct .4 V3 02/12/2019 DIVERSITY EuroCompliance can count on a team that shares extensive expertise in the prevention of bribery, but is made up of widely varied proﬁles and backgrounds. This diversity contributes to our relevance and the depth of our analyses. Partners are constantly at work enriching the diversity of our teams. Partners, associates and subcontractors encourage this diversity through discussions with many stakeholders from a wide range of activities and geographical locations (professional organizations, ISO, NGOs, think tanks on ethics and compliance, etc.). They are also committed to preventing all forms of discrimination at EuroCompliance and when conducting their missions. COMPLIANCE WITH COMPETITION LAW EuroCompliance is committed to conducting its business within the laws and rules of fair competition. In particular, no partner, business associate or subcontractor may take part in agreements with competitors or other partners that have the intent or effect of fixing prices, distorting the bidding process, sharing a market, limiting free competition or boycotting a client or supplier. EuroCompliance Code of Conduct .5 V3 02/12/2019 IMPARTIALITY AND PREVENTION OF CONFLICTS OF INTEREST EuroCompliance’s clients expect to be treated without any form of prejudice. Partners, associates and subcontractors make their decisions in an independent manner, selﬂessly and without any conﬂicts of interest. In particular, EuroCompliance: • prohibits all forms of self-assessment, where the company would assess its own work pursuant to consulting services – and therefore does not perform any such services. • prevents all conflicts of interests, situations in which a partner, associate or subcontractor has enough private or personal interest to influence or seem to influence the carrying out of his/her duties. For this, partners, associates or subcontractors: must hold no direct or indirect interests in the business of a supplier, client, competitor or any other party likely to influence their business decisions in the name of EuroCompliance; must ensure, with every new mission, that there is no risk of their personal situation’s giving rise to any conflicts of interest; must not undertake any mission or job offered by a client or competitor likely to impinge on their performances or judgement while carrying out their duties for EuroCompliance. Subcontractors must notably inform an officer of EuroCompliance if they are led to conduct missions on a private basis for a EuroCompliance client so that any situation of conflict of interest can be analysed and dealt with. • strictly restricts giving or receiving gifts and invitations. Their purpose or result must not be to influence a decision that would be beneficial to EuroCompliance. They must be symbolic and exceptional in accordance with EuroCompliance’s Gifts and Invitations Procedure. • does not make donations to political parties or organisations. • reviews sponsorships and patronage operations in the Executive Committee to assess their social impact and to ensure that they do not seek to unduly influence a business partner’s decision. EuroCompliance is notably committed to organisations and projects related to the fight against corruption. EuroCompliance Code of Conduct .6 V3 02/12/2019 PREVENTION OF BRIBERY AND INFLUENCE PEDDLING EuroCompliance applies a ‘zero tolerance’ policy in its anti-bribery and corruption commitment, whether active or passive, in its business transactions with partners and clients in France and abroad. EuroCompliance’s partners, associates and subcontractors must resist all attempts to influence them or their decisions, especially as regards certification recommendations. In this respect, auditors must report all attempts of influence or corruption to EuroCompliance’s President or General Director, so as to decide whether the commercial relationship should be terminated immediately or if it may continue satisfactorily after giving a reminder of the applicable regulations and EuroCompliance’s Code of Conduct. Partners, associates and subcontractors must not directly or indirectly offer, promise, grant or authorize the remittance of any amount of money or any other valuable (tangible or intangible), with a view of obtaining commercial contracts, amenities or any other unjustified benefit. Likewise, partners, associates and subcontractors must not monetize the position or influence of any person, real or supposed, to affect a decision to be made by a third party in favour of EuroCompliance (influence peddling). Facilitation payments are acts of corruption and therefore are also forbidden – except in cases of serious, imminent danger to life or physical integrity. EuroCompliance Code of Conduct .7 V3 02/12/2019 CONFIDENTIALITY EuroCompliance is committed to exercising the greatest care when dealing with its clients’ conﬁdential information. In order to conduct their mission under the best possible conditions, EuroCompliance’s partners, associates and subcontractors have access to confidential information. They must undertake not to disclose any confidential information, to retain only those documents required for their tasks (audit or training) and to destroy them at the end of the agreed statutory period of client data retention. EuroCompliance’s partners, business associates and subcontractors notably must not release any information about EuroCompliance’s clients, partners or clients’ internal procedures. EuroCompliance does not communicate in any way about companies undergoing the certification process or which have discontinued the certification process. As a rule, EuroCompliance formally requests prior authorisation from its clients before releasing any information concerning them (including mentions of them as reference clients). PERSONAL DATA EuroCompliance limits data gathering and strictly regulates personal data processing. In accordance with EuroCompliance’s privacy policy, partners, business associates and subcontractors gather, process and keep personal data for specific purposes, for a limited period of time and which has legitimacy for the processing purposes for which said data are gathered and used. The personal data consulted as part of an audit are anonymized or are recorded in the audit reports submitted to the clients for accuracy control when they are saved. EuroCompliance ensures a right to access and rectify the personal data that it processes and saves. EuroCompliance Code of Conduct .8 V3 02/12/2019 FRAUD PREVENTION EuroCompliance works to prevent acts of fraud that the company, its partners, its clients or its business associates may ﬁnd themselves confronted with. A multifaceted subject that is constantly evolving, fraud requires never-ending vigilance. EuroCompliance’s partners, business associates and subcontractors must comply with the applicable in-house procedures to avoid a wide range of frauds. They are also attentive to all abnormal situations and, when in doubt, inform the management so that a suitable analysis of the situation can be carried out. EuroCompliance is committed to maximum transparency toward interested parties who could be impacted by any fraud or attempted fraud that EuroCompliance may be faced with. WORKPLACE HEALTH AND SAFETY EuroCompliance is committed to taking all necessary measures to ensure the safety and to protect the health of its partners, associates and subcontractors in the context of their responsibilities and missions. EuroCompliance’s partners, business associates and subcontractors regularly travel around the world, including to countries that may present risks considered to be significant in terms of hygiene, health or safety, so increased vigilance is needed in preparing for missions in the field. The audit managers are responsible for ensuring the audit teams’ safety and health, insofar as possible. Each one takes protective measures for themselves and for their colleagues and comply with the applicable safety recommendations, including those of their clients, during on-site missions. EuroCompliance encourages a good work-life balance for its teams and, insofar as possible, takes into account the constraints facing its partners, business associates and subcontractors when planning missions. EuroCompliance Code of Conduct .9 V3 02/12/2019 OUR REFERENCES • Universal Declaration of Human Rights. 1948 • International Labour Organisation Conventions, and notably the socalled fundamental conventions : Freedom of Association and Protection of the Right to Organise Convention (No. 87), 1948; Right to Organise and Collective Bargaining Convention (No. 98), 1949; Forced Labour Convention (No. 29), 1930 (as well as its protocol of 2014); Abolition of Forced Labour Convention (No. 105), 1957; Minimum Age Convention (No. 138), 1973; Worst Forms of Child Labour Convention (No. 182), 1999; Equal Remuneration Convention (No. 100), 1951. Discrimination (Employment and Occupation Convention (No. 111), 1958. • OECD Guidelines for Multinational Enterprises, updated in 2011. • Principles of the United Nations Convention against Corruption – 2003. • Principles of the Global Compact – 2000. EuroCompliance Code of Conduct .10 V3 02/12/2019 IMPLEMENTATION PRINCIPLES SO THAT THESE COMMITMENTS ARE A REALITY : • Each EuroCompliance partner, business associate or subcontractor expressly undertakes to comply with this Code of Conduct when contracting with EuroCompliance. • Each EuroCompliance partner, business associate or subcontractor is duly and clearly informed about EuroCompliance’s ethics and compliance programme in the course of their integration and training processes. • The policy governing gifts and invitations gives a precise definition of what partners, business associates and subcontractors can accept or give depending on the circumstances. • Auditors fill out a declaration of interests before the start of each audit or certification mission. • Every year, each EuroCompliance partner, business associate and subcontractor confirms their compliance with the ethics and compliance policy in their areas of responsibility/in the context of their missions through a Declaration of Compliance. • This Code of Conduct and the EuroCompliance compliance programme are assessed and updated as often as necessary and at least once a year during a Management Review meeting and an Impartiality Committee. • EuroCompliance has procedures, in accordance with its privacy rules, for dealing with alerts relating to: failure to comply with this Code by one of its partners, business associates or subcontractors; complaints against organizations certified ISO37001 by EuroCompliance. EuroCompliance Code of Conduct .11 V3 02/12/2019 PROFESSIONAL ALERTS Alerts can be reported directly to EuroCompliance’s ofﬁcers at the following address: alerte@eurocompliance.com or through the internet platform: https://eurocompliance.signalement.net/entreprises Alerts about credible events will give rise to an impartial internal or external investigation in accordance with the rules of privacy and the protection of the various persons concerned with the alert (i.e. originators of the alert, persons who are the subjects of an alert, witnesses, etc.). The persons who receive the alert inform the originators of the alert of the response given to their testimony. They take the appropriate measures to deal with the situation if a real problem is observed. EuroCompliance reserves the right to take legal proceedings against persons who commit fraudulent acts harmful to its reputation or to the quality of its services. EuroCompliance and its officers agree not to take any form of retaliation against the originators of alerts reporting facts in good faith, but which turn out to be inaccurate. EuroCompliance Code of Conduct .12 V3 02/12/2019 EuroCompliance Paris 76 rue de la Pompe 75116 Paris Tél : +33 (0)1 42 24 86 18 EuroCompliance Aix-Marseille 2 rue du Castellas 13121 Aurons Tél : + 33 (0)9 67 83 39 98 contact@eurocompliance.com www.eurocompliance.com
