UN Global Compact COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS 2020 10.07.2020 UN Global Compact Communication on progress 2020 Statement of continued support Implement is proud to confirm our commitment to the UN Global Compact. We fully support the 10 principles and express our deepest commitment to engage and contribute to making the world fit for humans. Contents At Implement, we believe we have a global responsibility to partake in making the world more fit for humans. In addition to the 10 principles, Implement fully supports the Paris Agreement and the 17 sustainable development goals. Statement of continued support During 2019, Implement has become a carbon-neutral company. We have Human rights established a new Climate and Energy department and begun our journey towards reducing our carbon emissions even further. Sustainability is a strategic Labour and work environment focus for Implement, as we truly believe rapid change must happen now – and we want to do our part in achieving this. Environment Implement aspires to have a healthy ratio between male and female employees, Anti-corruption and that has been a focus area for several years. Although change is happening, it is not happening at the speed we had hoped. Therefore, we are committed to ramping up our efforts in the coming years. Although it might seem obvious to avoid child labour or forced labour for Danish companies, some of Implement’s international clients might live in societies with different value systems. We hope to contribute to change in these countries by engaging with stakeholders and showing a way forward. We are truly excited to partake in the global network of UNGC signatories, and we are fully committed to contributing to the10 principles and creating change with impact. Niels Ahrengot 2 3 UN Global Compact Communication on progress 2020 The Implement approach Our approach to the UN Global Compact is simultaneously business-driven, The Global Goals for Sustainable Development strategic, environmentally conscious and responsible. In 2015, the United Nations Member States adopted 17 sustainable development goals that provide a comprehensive vision for how we can transform our world to Implement consists of people, and their behaviour will thus be deemed the better. The goals entail a business focus on more than just economic growth Implement’s behaviour. Therefore, we strive to ensure that we behave in a and urge companies around the world to contribute to end poverty, reduce inequality respectful, ethical and appropriate manner. and tackle climate change by acting sooner rather than later. As stated in our Code of Conduct (Implement’s “Way of Life”), we take Implement was founded with a clear focus on creating change with impact and responsibility for ensuring and respecting the dignity, integrity, privacy and rights making the world fit for humans. As such, we are strong supporters of the UN’s 17 of all individuals, irrespective of where, when and how our paths cross. sustainable development goals, and we work actively, both internally and with our clients, to advance the goals formulated to transform our world. Creating value for Implement has incorporated the UN Global Compact statements and the 10 our clients while also leaving the world just a little bit better and more sustainable principles in our business activities to a full extent and will continue to support for the future is our ultimate goal. and contribute to the development of a fair and equal world. We believe in co-creation, and our consultants spend most of their time together with our clients – and that’s where our biggest contribution to promoting the sustainable development goals is found. Internally, we’re particularly focused on goal 5, 8 and 13 and have started several initiatives to enforce a continuous positive development. 4 5 UN Global Compact Communication on progress 2020 Human rights Labour and work environment Principle 1: Businesses should support and respect the protection of Principle 3: Businesses should uphold the freedom of association and the internationally proclaimed human rights. effective recognition of the right to collective bargaining. Principle 2: Businesses should make sure that they are not complicit in Principle 4: Businesses should uphold the elimination of all forms of forced human rights abuses. and compulsory labour. Principle 5: Businesses should uphold the effective abolition of child labour. As stated in our Living Rules, Implement is committed to promoting internationally recognised human rights and complying with “The Universal Declaration of Human Principle 6: Businesses should uphold the elimination of discrimination in Rights” from the United Nations. We work to ensure compliance and ensure that respect of employment and occupation. we do not contribute to any violation of human rights. At Implement, we are committed to being an active partner for our business partners in their efforts to ensure respect and compliance with human rights. At Implement, we are passionate about providing an inclusive work environment, where people are treated fairly and are empowered to do their best. We strive to Our Living Rules and employment policies capture the essence of our approach to create a corporate culture that is fit for humans and where our employees are aware human rights and to building a culture of respect and inclusion. They clearly state of carrying our internal standards into the real world. We believe in co-creation, and the way we expect our people to do business. our consultants spend most of their time with our clients. Therefore, we are also highly focused on enforcing and encouraging commitment to these principles with We expect that our owners and employees take responsibility in complying with our clients. the human rights and inform superiors if they experience any unacceptable working conditions or behaviour. There is no exact recipe for how to grow, thrive or survive at Implement. Not because we haven’t thought about it, but because it comes down to the fact that what works With our geographical location and business model, we assess that there are no is different for each employee. We believe in autonomy and encourage all employees particular risks regarding human rights. to find their own way. Actions performed Plans going forward LIVE We are compliant with the United Continue our commitment to respect • Maybe we’re stating the obvious. Nations’ “Universal Declaration of and promote the Universal Declaration Human Rights”. of Human Rights – both within the firm • Change is personal. So is living. and towards our clients. We have a strict policy for all suppliers • You have a life. Live it. and clients, ensuring that we never collaborate with any business partners And find your own balance between who are violating human rights. work and leisure, between love and PowerPoints. When we are consulting in countries with a history of violating human rights, Bring the whole you to work. Give us we are continuously in close contact your edge, and let your authenticity with Danish authorities regarding how shine at all times – even when times to make sure we leave a positive impact are challenging. on the world. 6 7 UN Global Compact Communication on progress 2020 Leaving a positive footprint in the world Implement’s 7 principles for 4. We ensure that the organisations we taking social responsibility work with engage in joint activities and have a specified objective. 1. We contribute where Implement 5. We support organisations that share Mind your own business Roskilde Leadership Lab KBH+ Projektakademiet creates real value. our wish to change the world but Since 2018, we have been proud Roskilde Leadership Lab develops Implement contributes to the project cannot pay for our services. business partners with Mind Your and supports the leaders of Roskilde academy KBH+ Projektakademiet 2. We contribute with manpower and Own Business. MYOB is a CSR initiative Festival. These leaders work voluntarily, funded by KBH+ Askovfonden. The materials – we do not donate money. 6. We support projects involving with entrepreneurship as the focal most of them more than 100 hours a project academy is a training promultiple Implement employees. point. MYOB engages boys aged 13 to year, and most of them have no gramme for young, aspiring project 3. We support consultants in donating 19 from vulnerable and disadvantaged experience with leadership. Roskilde managers with the ambition to lead their time. 7. We focus on the impact our activities neighbourhoods across Denmark. In Leadership Lab consists of a group cultural and social events and initiacreate. collaboration with volunteer venture of dedicated volunteers who train the tives at Nørrebro, Copenhagen, to make pilots and business partners, MYOB leaders in leadership skills and personal a social difference in society. KBH+ allows the boys to establish their own development through a leadership Projektakademiet is a 5-month practical microbusinesses. The collaboration programme designed specifically for education for a group of students has been further developed in the Roskilde Festival. Implement’s role motivated to do something for their past year to include workshops with is to support this group of leadership city and Nørrebro as a community. volunteers working with the micro/ trainers by giving them input on how Implement contributes with four companies, focusing on strengthening to design and facilitate the leadership training sessions focusing on tools their facilitation skills and deepening programme by training them in facilitaand methodologies used by the their understanding of group dynamics tion techniques, change processes and consultants in their everyday work. to further the output of microcompacoaching techniques. nies. In addition, Implement has been named a strategic partner of MYOB. 8 9 UN Global Compact Communication on progress 2020 Employee development in numbers Caring for our employees At Implement, we believe in At Implement, we celebrate mastery. developing our employees … We believe that people are our most valuable asset and that we must be the best consultants with deep functional expertise and change impact expertise. 4 All employees spent All employees attended This calls for an ambitious and bold 1,633 3 learning framework that targets all our consultants at all levels. It is our aspiration that this approach becomes our key differentiator in the industry and that learning becomes a key part of who we are as a company. At Implement, we encourage our employees to design their own career days on our annual days were spent in 2019 by our days of “University” sessions as well as choose their own leader. “Strategy Tour” creating employees on developing new about state-of-the-art theories, We believe that leadership is a twopersonal development. skills through courses hosted by our personal development and way street. To develop personally and Change Impact Academy. personal leadership. professionally, the leader must be someone you trust. We trust that our employees are the best to decide who that person is. Every year, the US-based company Vault conducts a European-wide survey in order to “provide in-depth intelligence on what it’s really like to work in an industry, company or profession”. For the second year running, we are immensely proud to be the top-ranked consultancy in job satisfaction throughout the whole of Europe. We also ranked in the top 3 in workplace culture, formal training and interaction with clients – and top 5 in nine other categories. Furthermore, to ensure the optimum working conditions in all of our offices, we have taken occupational health and safety measures. We conduct pulse checks and satisfaction surveys in addition to setting ambitious objectives regarding employee satisfaction and improving the work-life balance. 10 11 UN Global Compact Communication on progress 2020 Workforce in numbers Creating increased diversity Employees We strive to create and maintain a Companies and organisations occa790 521 269 diverse work environment by continusionally reach out to us regarding ing to develop our employees as well as advice and cooperation with the intent attracting the best candidates from a to promote acceptance and inclusion broad range of backgrounds. By having of their LGBT+ employees, clients and a diverse workforce, we are better collaborators, which we are honoured prepared to understand and serve our and excited to help them with and men women global customers. further engage in. The numbers of our workforce reveal At Implement, we are not scared of a significant gender difference – espewhat is different or new. Instead, we cially between male and female partare excited about the future and the Partners Non-partners Core ners. We want to change this pattern, changes it might bring, and we do our 220/33 280/180 21/55 and during the last 12 months, the very best to ensure that everyone feels male/female ratio of our new hires accepted and are a part of the journey. has been fairly balanced. We believe that – once the seniority level increases for the new hires – this will feed into creating increased diversity throughout the different levels of the organisation. men/women men/women men/women Diversity and inclusion At Implement, we are serious about our diversity and inclusion efforts. We want Churn rate last 12 months Seniority (years) to take it further than just initiating 16.1%/17.9% 4.3/2.6 constructive conversations by engaging in and actively supporting the LGBT+ community. In 2020, we have hosted a design workshop about the emphatic labour men/women men/women market with LGBT+ Denmark. The goal of this workshop was to create the first prototype of a rainbow certification to promote acceptance and diversity in the workplace while also giving particiNew hires last 12 months pants the opportunity to engage with a 83/61 likeminded network and be inspired. men/women 12 13 UN Global Compact Communication on progress 2020 A year full of progress Creating increased diversity Walk the talk. Practise what you Plans going forward • We want to increase gender equality • We honestly believe that we have a preach. We want to leave the corporate • We want to continue contributing to at Implement and continue to have free and fair promotion programme world a slightly better place and the society by engaging our consultants a constructive dialogue on how to at Implement and that people world fit for humans. And that change in a broad range of projects as listed increase diversity. are only measured based on the starts with ourselves. under the actions performed. impact they create. Therefore, we believe that our male/female ratio will become more balanced in the future – because men and women are truly equal. Actions performed • Implement has joined the task force “Women in Consulting” from the Confed• Support the ongoing development eration of Danish Industry. Together with other consultancies, we are working of an organisation that attracts towards more diversity in the management consulting industry. The task force candidates with different backhas goals and ambitions that Implement is working to achieve. grounds (education, ethnicity, religion, sexual orientation etc.). • Throughout the year, our employees have attended numerous internal courses and external education, been on a strategy tour with the purpose of personal growth and spent 3 days together at “Implement University” learning about the newest business research as well as personal development and leadership. • We have participated in the Mind Your Own Business programme engaging boys aged 13 to 19 from disadvantaged neighbourhoods. • We have started to prototype the first rainbow certificate to promote acceptance and increase diversity. • At Implement, we have always had a close relationship with universities and schools. Our support consists of various initiatives. We encourage our colleagues to support by teaching, hosting guest lectures, being examiners and volunteering to provide master thesis support. • Roskilde Leadership Lab develops and supports the leaders of Roskilde Festival. Implement’s role is to support a group of leadership trainers by giving them input on how to design and facilitate the leadership programme by training them in facilitation techniques, change processes and coaching techniques. • Implement contributes to the project academy KBH+ Projektakademiet funded by KBH+ Askovfonden. The project academy is a training programme for young, aspiring project managers with the ambition to lead cultural and social events and initiatives at Nørrebro, Copenhagen, to make a social difference in society. Implement contributes with training sessions focusing on tools and methodologies used by the consultants in their everyday work. 14 15 UN Global Compact Communication on progress 2020 Environment Environment – some of our projects with clients Principle 7: Businesses should support a precautionary approach to Reducing paint waste Support supply chain Green for real environmental challenges. Paint waste in paint production repredecarbonisation What would it take for a climate sents an environmental and economic Working for the world’s largest developstrategy to actually be implemented? Principle 8: Businesses should undertake initiatives to promote greater challenge. To increase circularity in er of offshore windfarms, we help with We have prepared a Climate Strategy environmental responsibility. paint production, we are helping one developing the means to reach ambiPlaybook with the purpose of guiding of the world’s leading paint producers tious targets for halving its climate organisations wishing to not just talk Principle 9: Businesses should encourage the development and explore new ways of reducing paint footprint by 2032 – and reaching climate about its climate ambitions in nice diffusion of environmentally friendly technologies. waste while still keeping the commercial neutrality in 2040. This involves presentations but to take actual action. edge. This involves building business identifying roadmaps, priorities and We support a range of companies cases, exploring opportunities for uticollaborative models to ensure close looking at how to set and realise At Implement, we are deeply worried about the current trajectories for our planet’s lising residues and analysing supply collaboration through the supply sustainability targets. This typically climate. We are strongly committed to doing everything we can to keep the increase chains and options for recycling chain. This is of particular importance involves ensuring a baseline, developing in pre-industrial global temperatures below 1.5 degrees. The planet must stay fit for residues. The challenge includes because the majority of offshore winda strategy integrated into the organihumans – but this requires rapid change. paint waste in all steps of the supply farm footprint stems from suppliers sations’ broader strategies, supporting chain – from waste at factories to waste and their subsuppliers. Challenges the necessary leadership and change It is our ambition to help organisations become fit for the future. In the big picture, at the end user – and possibly involves involve driving reduction in offshore management and helping to influence this also means – at least for us – that we feel obligated to help transform all human how best to help other paint producers transport, steel production and manudaily behaviour through behavioural activities to become more sustainable. In practice, this entails integrating concerns reduce their waste. facturing across a global supply chain. design. and considerations of sustainability into everything we do. 16 17 UN Global Compact Communication on progress 2020 Implement’s CO2e emissions at a glance Always data-driven 5,628.5 7.1 In our opinion, corporations must prioritise the resources to conduct a precise measurement of their emissions to help guide this change. After all, we must get our strategy for change right the first time because there is tCO2e in 2019 tCO2e per FTE in 2019 no planet B. When we measure our carbon emissions, we are strictly following the reporting criteria outlined in the GHG protocol and subsequent amendments to the publication. In all measurements, we include all emissions from scope 1, 2 and 3. This includes indirect emissions Other business travel emissions from third parties, e.g. emissions from the production of bought IT equipment Buildings and maintainance or radiative forcing from aviation. By focusing on the full value chain, no emissions are overlooked, and we Office supplies take full responsibility for our direct Commuting and indirect contributions to adverse Flights climate change. Hotels Food At Implement, we are continuously nudging our employees to choose the best environmental path and be climate conscious. We are in the process Total CO2e offsetting: 6,000 of launching measurements of all employees’ emissions on an individual basis to ensure that our behaviour changes create instantaneous impact, which allows us to give direct feedback Approximately 111.000 trees saved to the employees. tCO2e in 2019 in Amazonian forest 18 19 UN Global Compact Communication on progress 2020 Preparing for an emission-free future Our initial goal was to become carbon We strive to continuously have converThe COVID-19 crisis has created great neutral in 2020. We succeeded in sations about sustainability at momentum for virtual meetings and achieving this goal in 2019. This was Implement as well as to encourage working remotely. We are forced to Actions performed done through climate compensation and facilitate them in the market. do so because of social distancing Plans going forward • We have measured our CO2e such as tree planting. We are now on Additionally, we will make our environrequirements. But as society slowly • We are committed to reducing our emissions and havea target of emissions for 2018 and 2019 a journey towards reducing our total mental work more visible internally as reopens, we need new arguments for reducing our emissions for 2020 by 15% compared to our emissions and compensated for 100% of emission. We strive to do this by well as externally. remaining digital. Adverse climate in 2019. our emissions in 2019 through travelling less, utilising our online change is that argument. carbon offsetting. platforms and continuing to look for Ultimately, our aim is to live up to the • We will remain carbon neutral by offsetting any greenhouse gasses more sustainable alternatives to our responsibility we as advisers have in In this dire situation, Implement is satemitted by Implement. • We have reduced meat served current ways of working. the common global effort to create a isfied with the positive climate impact in our canteen by 75%. truly sustainable society. that social distancing has had. We are • During 2020, Implement will set an ambitious 5-year reduction plan By stimulating discussions in our doing everything we can to keep the with binding reduction targets for each year. • We have reduced emissions from everyday life as well as with our clients, momentum for virtual meetings going, office supplies by 30% in 2019 we aim to increase awareness about as we believe this new digital era is a • We plan to implement a green bottom line for all our projects in order compared to 2018. our environmental impact. permanent change. Not many positive to make actual emissions more salient to consultants and clients. things can be said about a global • We have implemented a method pandemic, but one positive result • We plan to increase waste sorting and reduce food waste through for continuously measuring our might be that we have learnt that our intelligent forecasting. emissions on a monthly basis. behaviour can indeed change. When We are using this data to working together, we can support • We plan to invest in electric chargers for cars and company-owned guide our transition towards a each other in making the necessary bicycles, making it easier for consultants carbon-neutral future. sacrifices, inspire better practices to choose a greener commuting alternative. and consequently reform our society. • Implement subscribes to the • We are continuously choosing the green alternative when buying hotel booking platform Goodoffice supplies and IT equipment. wings. Goodwings offers carbon-­ neutral hotel stays by offsetting • We are transforming our business to fit a new digital future with the carbon emitted by the hotel great reductions in commuting, flights and hotel stays. This will have a stay. In addition, every time a huge impact on our emissions, as business travel by far is our largest hotel booking is made through emission source. Goodwings, a donation is made to Plastic Change – an NGO with a mission is to reduce plastic usage worldwide. 20 21 UN Global Compact Communication on progress 2020 Anti-Corruption Principle 10: Businesses should work against corruption in all its forms, including extortion and bribery. Implement has a long-standing anti-corruption policy, which is included in our Living Rules. We have zero tolerance for corruption, including bribery and facilitation of payments. No partners or employees engage in any interaction or relation with a third party that may compromise our business ethics. Our ethical rules and guidelines for avoiding compromising situations are laid out in our Living Rules, and they express our expectations of our employees and our own ethical conduct. They set the framework for dialogue with the intention to ensure that our business is conducted with the highest level of integrity. These guidelines provide detailed information about the legal background and examples of how to act in compliance with this. We expect that employees inform their leader of any doubts or suspicions of irregularities, wrongdoing or inappropriate behaviour. Hence, Implement is committed to ethical and responsible business practice and expects the same from our clients. Actions performed Plans going forward We have a strict anti-corruption policy To continue to set the highest ethical for all suppliers and clients, which is standards for employees and partners described in our Business Partner Code at Implement. of Conduct policy. To continuously update and optimise our IT tools and safety. 22 23 Contact For more information please contact: Asger Gullach Implement Consulting Group +45 3085 8015 agul@implement.dk Luka Dalum Implement Consulting Group +45 6124 4809 luda@implement.dk Morten Rye Christensen Implement Consulting Group +45 3065 1015 mrye@implement.dk implementconsultinggroup.com
