CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY REPORT STATEMENT OF SUPPORT AND BUSINESS CHALLENGES Behind us is the eighth year of membership and the application of the United Nations Global Compact (UNGC) principles, whereby we improve the socially responsible business operation of our company in the area of human rights, labour, contributions to the community, environmental protection and the fight against corruption. Responsible business operation, in accordance with the UNGC principles, has been the strategic direction of our company, whether it concerns the relationship with employees, consumers, business partners, cooperators, social community or attitude towards the environment. Assuming responsibility for the role and influence of our company in the local community and wider is an integral part of our business strategy and commitment to sustainable business operation. Furthermore, we also seek to incorporate the Sustainable Development Goals into our business strategy to ensure the long-term sustainable growth of our company and all our stakeholders. Nevertheless, we emphasize that the context of Dukat Inc. corporate social responsibility is significantly wider than the UNGC principles that we primarily report on. Namely, the incentives for primary and sustainable milk production are of great significance for the company and the rural areas where our farmers live and work, as well as the entire economy of our country. In addition, we invest our knowledge and experience in the promotion of proper and balanced nutrition and healthy habits. The focus on the quality and safety of our products, as well as constant innovation and improvement in all areas, are the cornerstones of our development and sustainability. In 2019, we continued to record unfavourable sectoral trends from previous periods. Namely, the Croatian dairy sector has been recording a steady decline in the number of milk producers, fresh milk production and an increasing shortage of own milk production for the past ten years. At the same time, the domestic dairy sector is burdened by the placement and import of finished dairy products, especially UHT milk and semi-hard cheese from the European Union countries and beyond, which are marketed at extremely low prices that the domestic dairy industry is incapable of competing with. Despite the difficult conditions in which it operates, in 2019, Dukat Inc. continued to base its operations on the principles of corporate social responsibility and sustainability, placing the focus on its employees and consumers. Furthermore, we strive to adapt the range of milk, dairy products and cheese to the needs and resources of consumers of all age groups, insisting on their top quality. Innovations and the reinvention of products and recipes confirm our longstanding position as an innovator and leader of new trends in the domestic dairy industry. Together with the overview of activities related to the application of UNGC principles, this report also follows the Global Reporting Initiative (GRI) Standards and European Commission guidelines on non-financial reporting. This provides our stakeholders with a clear and relevant framework for comparing our activities with previous and future ones, which we will continue to report on. Alen Fontana Director Zagreb, March 2020 2 DUKAT Inc. – THE LEADING DAIRY INDUSTRY IN CROATIA WITH A CENTURY-OLD TRADITION Dukat Inc. (hereinafter: Dukat), the leading global cheese consumers. Dukat also markets with its registered office in manufacturer, which makes it the branded products of Zagreb, is the leading dairy the centre for the development companies operating within industry in Croatia with a and expansion of the dairy the Lactalis Group, such as century-old tradition in the industry in Croatia and SouthAlpsko mleko, MU, Lactel, production of milk and dairy East Europe. Parmalat, Societe, etc., and its products, which has grown total sales range comprises into a regional company as the As the flagship brand for milk more than 600 dairy products. result of organic growth and and dairy products, Dukat acquisitions. With 8 production successfully responds to Dukat exports its products plants in Croatia, Slovenia, the demands and needs of and innovations developed Bosnia and Herzegovina, consumers. Innovativeness, and commercialized on Serbia and North Macedonia, insistence on quality and the the domestic market to the Dukat Group is currently implementation of the latest approximately 80 countries the leading regional dairy advancements in the food and around the world: in Europe, industry. In addition to Dukat, dairy industry have ensured Africa, Asia, the Middle East, the Dukat Group comprises Dukat would hold the position French Overseas Territories 14 associated companies of market leader and the and Central America. In 2019, with registered offices in pioneer of trends in the dairy the export to Bosnia and Croatia, Slovenia, Bosnia and industry. Herzegovina, Serbia, North Herzegovina, Serbia, North Macedonia, Denmark, the Macedonia, Kosovo and Dukat bases its operations on Czech Republic, Romania, Bulgaria. the processing of top-quality France, Italy, Spain and raw milk produced by Croatian Portugal significantly In Croatia, the Dukat Group dairy farms. In 2019, Dukat increased, with export growth currently employs 1,577 cooperated with 2,543 milk of 14 percent compared to the people in three production producers, purchasing 185.1 year before. plants: in Zagreb, Bjelovar million kilograms of fresh raw and KIM Mljekara Karlovac, milk, confirming its status as Dukat has implemented which is also an associated one of the largest purchasers international standards that company, as well as in its two of fresh raw milk in the ensure top quality, safety associated companies LA LOG country. and food safety: ISO 9001 for transport and distribution Quality Management Systems, and B.P.A.C. Auto for car rental Its production range consists ISO 22000 Food Safety and leasing. In 2019, Dukat has of milk, chilled dairy, cheese, Management, IFS, HACCP, achieved revenue from sales in cream, dairy spreads, as well as Kosher and Halal the amount of HRK 1.83 billion, desserts and butter. In 2019, certificates for specific product 84.7 percent of which was on Dukat produced 197.8 million groups. Dukat also has the the domestic market. kilograms of products in ISO 14001 Environmental its range, comprising 467 Management System Since 2007, Dukat has been Dukat, Sirela, President and certificate, as well as the ISO operating as part of the Galbani brand products. In 50001 Energy Management Lactalis Group, the leading 2019, 42 new dairy products System since 2017. global dairy group and were introduced to Croatian This Report provides an overview of activities implemented in 2019 (01/01 – 31/12/2019) in Dukat Inc. and does not include the activities of associated companies operating within the Dukat Group. 3 THE DUKAT GROUP IN CROATIA IN NUMBERS (2019) No. 1 dairy industry 3 production plants 3 associated companies KIM Mljekara Karlovac, La Log, B.P.A.C. Auto 1,577 employees EUR 332.56 million turnover 251.1 million kilograms of total processed milk 2,543 co-operators 42 new products introduced on the Croatian market 467 products 4 umbrella brands VOLUME 1% 2% 1% DISTRIBUTION PER PRODUCT 7% CATEGORIES 7% 17% milk chilled dairy 65% cheeses cream butter dehydrated products other BJELOVAR ZAGREB KARLOVAC ĐAKOVO RIJEKA PULA PLANTS, ZADAR WAREHOUSES AND PLATFORMS SPLIT PLANTS CENTRAL WAREHOUSES PLATFORMS (logistic centres) DUBROVNIK HUMAN RIGHTS Dukat fully respects human and labor rights based on the Constitution, EU directives, international conventions, and internal documents 6 PRINCIPLE 1 PRINCIPLE 2 Businesses should support and respect the protection of Make sure that they are not complicit in internationally proclaimed human rights within its area of human rights abuses influence Dukat fully respects human and labour rights based on the Constitution, laws and other regulations of the Republic of Croatia, EU directives and international conventions. Dukat guarantees and promotes human rights protection through good business practice and a number of internal documents – Work Regulations, the Collective Agreement and the Code of Conduct. These documents are available to employees on the Intranet internal Dukat portal. RIGHT TO DIVERSITY AND EQUAL OPPORTUNITIES All employees have equal opportunities. We respect all opportunity for success and rights and regulations that the position in the company prohibit child labour, forced or depends entirely on the compulsory labour, and protect At Dukat, differences among performance and success of the dignity of employees people are accepted in an each individual. by guaranteeing equality open and tolerant manner and protection from sexual regardless of their age, In human resources harassment for employees nationality, ethnic origin, management, we pay special and persons undergoing the religion, gender, language attention to adherence to the recruitment process. and socioeconomic status. principle of diversity and equal PROTECTION OF EMPLOYEES’ DIGNITY Dukat consistently implements Management Board appoints In 2019, as was the case in 2017, regulations and directives a Commission consisting of there were no reported cases of of the European Union three independent members: violation of employees’ dignity, and Croatia related to the a trade union representative, while in 2018, there were four suppression of discrimination an administrative service reported cases. This is the and the protection of employee representative and a person result of Dukat’s efforts to raise dignity, and procedure protocol appointed to receive and the awareness of employees in case of a violation of dignity address employees’ complaints on the importance of is embedded in the Work related to the protection of respecting diversity, nurturing Regulations and the Code dignity. An identical protocol high-quality interpersonal of Conduct. In the event of is also planned for all forms relations and cooperation, and a complaint or a request for of discrimination and sexual generally on building a positive the protection of dignity, the harassment. organizational culture. CODE OF CONDUCT Dukat has had the Code of professional standards and and conduct in the workplace, Conduct since 1998, integrating generally accepted civil values. including the attitude towards the principles of employees’ The code was amended other stakeholders. conduct in accordance in 2003 and it serves as a with the ethical, moral and framework for daily activities DIVERSITY CHARTER As a company whose relationship with its employees rests on non-discrimination and respect for diversity, at the end of 2017, Dukat signed the Diversity Charter in Croatia. The aim of the initiative is to promote diversity as one of the fundamental values of modern society, enabling each person to realize their full potential. It is one of the prerequisites for the development of creativity, innovation and individual talents in the workplace. As a signatory of the Charter, Dukat is working on internal policies of respecting diversity and an action plan for its implementation. In order to ensure a higher level of protection and confidentiality of the personal data of its employees and business partners, in November 2019 Dukat appointed a Data Protection Officer, in line with the Regulation (EU) 2016/679 of the European Parliament and of the Council of 27.4.2016 (General Data Protection Regulation), even though the provisions of said Regulation do not make this mandatory. 7 WORKING CONDITIONS Dukat respects and guarantees all labor rights and systematically works to improve the quality of work environment and experiences, education and development of employees, health and safety at work 8 PRINCIPLE 3 PRINCIPLE 4 Businesses should uphold the freedom of association The elimination of all forms of forced and and the effective recognition of the right to collective compulsory labour; bargaining; PRINCIPLE 6 PRINCIPLE 5 The elimination of discrimination in respect of The effective abolition of child labour, and employment and occupation. Dukat respects and guarantees all labour rights prescribed by law and the Constitution, and systematically works on improving the quality of the work environment and experiences, education and development of employees, care for health and safety at work. FREEDOM OF ASSOCIATION AND COLLECTIVE BARGAINING Compared to similar • Jubilee award companies in the region, • Assistance for days spent in the Collective Agreement the hospital ensures a higher level of rights • Assistance in the event of an Dukat has a 20-year-long arising from employment. Act of God tradition of association and The Agreement applies to • Assistance to families in collective bargaining, and 33 all employees, regardless of the event of the employee’s percent of its employees are whether they are trade union death members of the Trade Union members, have permanent or • Gift in-kind for Easter of those Employed in the temporary employment, or • Allowance for each new-born Agriculture, Food, Tobacco are working full-time or partchild and Water Industries of Croatia time. The Collective Agreement (PPDIV). Partnership with the signed for 2018 and 2019 was Furthermore, employees representatives of workers printed as a pocket edition and are entitled to the following is continuously improved handed to each employee of bonuses on salary: bonus for through cooperation and Dukat at the beginning of 2018. years of service, bonus for communication with the Works It additionally expanded the work in shifts, bonus for work Council. material benefits of employees, on Sundays and holidays, and especially when it comes to meal allowance. All Dukat TRADE UNION MEMBERS supporting the parents of employees are also insured infants and young children against accidents, regardless of 432 (allowance for each infant, a whether they are permanent or paid day off work for child’s temporary, full-time or partfirst day of kindergarten and time employees. school) and employees who Dukat fosters regular and 414 are ill (allowance for sick leave open communication with the 408 exceeding 120 days increased trade union and the Central by 66 percent). Works Council and provides them with information about A set of employee benefits is decisions of importance to the available to employees based economic and social status of 2017 2018 2019 on the Collective Agreement: employees. The Management • Allowance for sick leave Board informs the Works In 2019, 414 employees, or 33 exceeding 120 days Council about the business percent, belonged to the Trade • Allowance for annual vacation results, plans, organizational Union of those Employed in the • Christmas bonus changes and other important Agriculture, Food, Tobacco and • Reimbursement of issues annually and when Water Industries of Croatia. transportation costs necessary. 9 CORPORATE VALUES Ambition, engagement and simplicity are the key values of Dukat that are strongly woven into the corporate culture of the company and into the everyday work of our employees. By applying these values in their work, our employees contribute to the achievement of the goal: to provide the best milk to as many people as possible. Our employees are the backbone of our business, corporate culture and success. We inspire them to constantly learn and develop by investing in education and the development of specialized skills. In the desire to reach their full potential and ambitions, we enable them to develop their career within Dukat and other associated companies. HEALTH PROTECTION AND SAFETY AT WORK and 2017 the tests covered regular meetings on the 750 employees each year. The topic of safety and health reason for this decrease in the protection to discuss the number of employees tested is proposals of employees Dukat pays special attention the amendment of the Law on on the improvement of to health protection and safety the Protection of the General work conditions and health at work, and encourages Population from Infectious protection at work. Two employees to engage Diseases, which prescribes that committees (Zagreb and in recreational activities the schedule of health controls Bjelovar Plant) have 11 and sports. It supports shall change from 1 January members, accounting for 0.9 and additionally rewards 2019 and shall be valid for a full employees who are volunteer year, instead of for six months. NUMBER OF WORKPLACE blood donors by giving them In May and November 2019, 110 INJURIES a day off and organizing an employees attended training excursion. and passed the hygiene 23 minimum exam, which is 17 18 A preventive seasonal influenza percent more compared to the vaccination is organized at year before. In-house training the company premises each on the personal hygiene of 8.8 9 year. In November 2019, 92 employees, food and employee 6.5 employees were vaccinated safety and targeted training 3.3 on three production locations on food safety in the supply (Zagreb, Bjelovar and chain (warehouse workers) Karlovac) and in the logistics was organized for 250 centres, which is 19.5 percent employees, which is 35 percent 2017 2018 2019 more employees than the year less compared to 2018, but 30 before. percent more than in 2017. Number of injuries with Preliminary and periodic lost days Dukat also regularly performs medical examinations are Absenteeism rate carrier tests, for the protection regularly carried out for all (LTIFR)* of food safety and for employees at workplaces with checking the health status of special working conditions. percent of the total number of employees participating in the In 2019, this included 443 employees. production process, storage employees (12.7 percent more and food transport. During than the year before). In all three production 2019, these tests were done on The Health and Safety at plants (Zagreb, Bjelovar and 410 employees, while in 2018 Work Committee holds Karlovac), together with the * LTIFR Lost Time Injury Frequency Rate. Calculation: number of workplace injuries with lost time x 1,000,000 / hours of work 10 logistics centre in Split and all and the 12 Golden Rules of NUMBER OF PAID platforms in Croatia, a total of Safety at Work have been LEAVE DAYS 18 workplace injuries has been implemented for the fourth 493 recorded in 2019, which is two year in a row, and both times more compared to the documents are handed to new 465 previous year. All the recorded employees. injuries were minor injuries. No injuries required the employee In 2019, the number of sick 401 to be admitted for treatment days decreased by one percent at a hospital or out-patient compared to the year before, clinic, as is usually the case while in 2018 it was 9 percent with major injuries. lower than in 2017. 2017 2018 2019 Nine workplace injuries were PARENTAL LEAVE registered in 2018 (seven minor In 2019, thirty employees and two major), which is 61 that became parents during percent less than the year the year have received an before when there were 23 allowance for a new family workplace injuries. In addition to providing a safe member. In 2019 there was an increase workplace, Dukat makes sure in the number of lost workdays its employees have carefree In 2019, the employees used due to injuries – from 697 days parental leave, regardless of 493 days of paid leave, which in 2018 to 987 days in 2019, gender. In 2019, parental leave was 6 percent higher than which is an increase of 42 was used by 26 employees the previous year. In 2018, percent. – 23 women and three men, employees used 465 days of which is nearly two times paid leave and in 2017 they Dukat is working on the more than in the previous year used 401 days. Employees are systematic education of (14 employees). The number entitled to paid leave based on employees in production, of fathers – employees who their right to be absent from warehouses and logistic are using parental leave has work in the event of marriage, centres in order to decrease increased compared to the the birth of a child, the death the number of workplace year before, when this right of a family member, serious injuries and increase the safety was used only by two fathers. illness or emergency treatment and health protection of The newly introduced of close family members, employees. The Occupational measures from the the voluntary donation of Safety and Protection Policy previous year continue to blood, moving and natural be implemented in 2019 in disasters. Furthermore, in 2018, NUMBER OF SICK DAYS accordance with the Collective employees were granted paid Agreement. These are: leave for the first day of their 33,382 • Allowance for each new-born child’s kindergarten or school. 30,534 30,512 child • Paid day off for the child’s first day of kindergarten and school • Day off for pregnant women to perform their prenatal examinations once a month 2017 2018 2019 11 THE TRADITION OF BLOOD VOLUNTEER BLOOD DONORS DONATIONS BY DUKAT EMPLOYEES Forty-three employees during a one-day trip 43 donated blood to North-West Croatia, 35 in 2019 in two visiting Varaždin 30 organized volunteer and OPG Hadžić blood drives in the in Međimurje. The workplace, compared excursion organized 18 21 21 to 30 employees who by Dukat is an almost donated blood the 40-year-old tradition year before. In October, and a reward of sorts 4 volunteer blood donor for employees who 3 3 month, 25 employees of selflessly help others by Dukat and associated donating blood. 2017 2018 2019 companies (KIM and La Log) who are also longDonors Rejected time volunteer blood donors donors, socialized New donors EMPLOYEE AID AMOUNT OF FINANCIAL AID TO EMPLOYEES (HRK) 614,329 Dukat helps its employees related to the improvement and their families overcome of social status, medication 476,757 476,172 difficulties by providing payments, therapies, medical them with financial aid aides and the like. In 2019, in various situations, and Dukat responded positively alongside using the rights to to such requests from its different types of aid from employees and allocated the Collective Agreement, it HRK 476,172 for this purpose, acknowledges their requests which is the same as in 2017. 2017 2018 2019 12 Supporting the care for the initiatives, especially those in • Dukat leisure cycling club health of its employees, which employees account for • Dukat Futsal Team Dukat encourages them to the majority of members: • Participation of employees participate in recreational and • Sports Club Sirela of Dukat and its affiliates in sports activities, including • Voluntary Fire Brigade Sirela Ljubljanske Mlekarne Sports coming to work by bicycle, Bjelovar Games in Ljubljana co-financing such employee EMPLOYEE DATA TYPE OF EMPLOYMENT as well as the rights under lower than the year before the Collective Agreement and but still relatively high, mostly In 2019, Dukat had 1,251 benefits, are applied equally due to the large number employees, which is 16 to all employees, regardless of of seasonal workers with employees or 1.3 percent whether they are permanent temporary employment during fewer employees than the year or temporary, full or half-time the summer season. before. Out of the total number employees, members of the of employees, 83 percent are union or not. permanent employees, which 17% is 3 percent more compared to Employee fluctuation rate is the year before. Work rights, 20 percent, which is 1 percent Total number Permanent Temporary Year 83% of employees employment employment 2017 1,213 980 233 2018 1,267 1,008 257 Permanent employment 2019 1,251 1,039 212 Temporary employment EMPLOYMENT OF YOUNG PEOPLE AND PEOPLE ABOVE 50 YEARS OF AGE Young people aged 18 to 30 make up 16 percent of Dukat employees, and 91 new people under 30 were employed in 2019 – 39 remained employed, while 52 who were mostly seasonal workers left the company. In 2019, Dukat employed 14 people above 50 years of age, of which 7 people remained employed. 13 AGE STRUCTURE 2% At the end of 2019, the average 2013 was 44), which was the employee age was 42.5, which result of hiring young people 16% is half a year more compared and retiring older employees. 27% to the previous year. Until 2018, Furthermore, we have a trend we were witnessing a trend of employing people over 50, of the gradual rejuvenation which is affecting the age 25% of employees over the past structure of the employees. seven years (average age in 28% Number of Number of Number of Age employees employees employees 2017 2018 2019 < 30 < 30 183 227 205 31 40 31 40 298 316 319 41 50 41 50 380 378 355 51 60 51 60 333 323 342 > 61 > 61 19 23 30 Total 1,213 1,267 1,251 GENDER The majority of Dukat is one percentage point more employees are men (65 in favour of women compared 35% percent), while women to the year before. account for 35 percent, which Number of Number of Number of 65% Gender employees employees employees 2017 2018 2019 Male 791 836 812 Female 422 431 439 Male Total 1,213 1,267 1,251 Female 11% EDUCATION 22% Elementary The majority of employees (68 School percent) have a high school Secondary school diploma, while 22 percent Higher school have a college and university and faculty degree, which is the same as the ratio from the year before. 68% 14 A NEW MOMENTUM IN SEASONAL EMPLOYMENT The project “Season 2019” An integrated communication Sales and Production, compared was initiated at the end campaign “May this be your to 95 in 2018. of 2018 with the aim of season” was designed and All the activities that were systematically reviewing the implemented, which, in implemented were also fruitful challenges from the previous addition to the advertising and in terms of keeping the existing seasons and designing launching of the new website and attracting new employees. solutions at various levels of www.sezonaudukatu.hr, also This resulted in half as many operations. The processes in included an internal project rotations of employees in the entire supply chain were “Recommend a new seasonal Logistics during the 2019 improved, accompanied by worker”. Together with the fullseason compared to previous the implementation of a new time employees, the seasonal years, whereas the rotation of strategy for attracting, rewarding activities were carried out by 89 employees at plants has been and educating seasonal workers. seasonal workers in Logistics, reduced by 20 percent. COMPOSITION OF GOVERNANCE AND MANAGEMENT positions (from 35 percent in management positions as well. 2012 to 52 percent in 2019). The share of Croatian citizens A high percentage of women in the top management (Dukat is represented in managerial Inc. directors) is 50 percent, In 2019, the share of women in positions – 25 percent in and in senior management governance and management executive positions and (executive and regional positions at Dukat was at 26 percent in managerial directors) it is 90 percent, the same level as in 2018 (52 positions. while in the high management percent). The past several (sectoral directors) it is 96 years have shown an increase We pay special attention to percent. trend in the share of women in hiring domestic labour and governance and management local experts, for executive and Average Year Gender Number age Male 45 41 2017 Female 44 49 48% 52% Female Male 45 43 2018 Female 46 47 Male Male 45.8 44 2019 Female 46.8 47 15 RATIO OF SALARIES AND BENEFITS, AND PROMOTIONS Salary and benefits policies In 2019, the average net salary acquisition of new knowledge are based solely on the type per employee was 1 percent and skills within the framework and complexity of the job, higher than in 2018. Total nonof their jobs, and taking over responsibility, knowledge and taxable expenses increased by new responsibilities within skills necessary for carrying 431 percent compared to the and between departments out tasks and achieving year before. (horizontal and vertical results, excluding any form promotion). In 2018, a total of discrimination based on During 2019, 519 employees, of 469 employees were gender, nationality, religion or or 41 percent were promoted promoted. any other personal features. to new jobs, based on their DUKAT LEISURE CYCLING CLUB During its eighth year, the Dukat Leisure Cycling club members continued to proudly wear Dukat Fit Club (RBK Dukat) continued to actively work on colours – the line of products enriched with protein. encouraging the everyday use of bicycles and promoting the environmental, health and social As in previous years, in August 2019, members of benefits of recreational cycling, simultaneously the Club participated in the organization of Dukat’s inspiring cooperation and team spirit among eighth cycling race Dukat Fit at Lake Jarun and they employees. The club has 154 members – employees competed in the race. of Dukat and its associated companies in Croatia. The year 2019 was marked by numerous cycling events and races. Club members participated in nine cycling events, two of which they organized themselves. They explored the beautiful scenery of Central Istria and the surroundings of Ozalj on two wheels. Other than their common recreational rides, members of RBK Dukat also participated in six challenging mountain-bike races: Rabac, Fužine, Baška, Vodice, the “Catch the Wind” race on the island of Brač, and the “Krka Trophy” in Drniš. While participating in cycling events and races, cycling more than 10,000 kilometres and promoting healthy habits and an active lifestyle, in 2019 the 16 THE EDUCATION AND DEVELOPMENT OF EMPLOYEES In human resources management, Dukat remains true to its mission – to recruit and retain capable, professional and motivated employees, who act proactively in constantly changing conditions, create new values and achieve personal and professional fulfilment. That is why significant means and efforts are invested in the education and training of employees. In 2019, specialized and in 2018 and 15,100 in 2017. The auxiliary workers, warehouse development education average number of education workers and drivers). In 2019, accounted for 77 percent of hours per employee was 7.8 in in-house education was the total number of educations 2019, compared to 9.4 in 2018 organized for 177 employees, at Dukat, which is the same as and 12.4 in 2017. which is 8.6 percent more in 2018 and five percent less compared to 2018 when 163 than in 2017. Legally required INTERNAL EDUCATION employees attended the intraining accounts for 23 house education, the same as percent of the total education, As part of internal knowledge in 2017 (176 employees). the same as in the year before, transfer practice, a total of 46 but five percent more than in internal education sessions INTRODUCING NEW 2017. were held for 490 employees EMPLOYEES TO THE of Dukat in 2019, compared COMPANY AND ITS In 2019, the average annual to 49 in-house sessions for ACTIVITIES expenditure for education 640 employees in 2018 (23.4 was HRK 1,251 per employee fewer employees covered by Following the already (compared to HRK 1,533 the in-house education than the common practice, 12 year before and HRK 1,519 in year before) and 34 in-house new employees of Dukat 2017), while 762 employees sessions for 557 employees underwent induction training were included in some form in 2017. The topics covered in 2019, to get acquainted of education (compared to food safety, product safety with the organization, main 940 the year before and 915 in protection and hygiene, selfbusiness processes and 2017). control on manufacturing activities. During group and lines, good manufacturing and individualized induction hygiene practices, food fraud, programs, employees visited EDUCATION HOURS food safety in the logistic key departments and were processes, safe warehouse introduced to milk and 15,100 work, handling the electricaldairy goods processing and manual forklift, MS Excel, production in all three Croatian 11,835 occupational health and safety plants. Induction training was 9,712 topics and working hours organized for 10 employees in records. All education sessions 2018 and for 23 employees in were held by Dukat’s in-house 2017. trainers. Training related to hygiene 2017 2018 2019 and food and employee safety is also continuously carried In 2019, employees out for new employees in participated in 9,712 hours of Production and Logistics education, compared to 11,835 (focusing on operators, 17 EMPLOYEE DEVELOPMENT PROJECTS Dukat is systematically 360° DEVELOPMENT the Zagreb Plant attended investing in the development PROGRAM FOR THE CENTRAL 148 hours of training in total. and professional training PLANNING TEAM The goal of the workshop is to of employees. Some of the provide new in-house trainers educational and development Bearing in mind that the with the tools necessary for programs organized in 2019 new Supply chain business the efficient structuring and include: function was formed at the transfer of internal knowledge beginning of 2019, as a result and the efficient motivation TALENT POOL JUNIOR of the merging of the Logistics of new employees, while the DEVELOPMENT AND and Central planning teams, existing trainers were provided EDUCATION PROGRAM an assessment of the Central with continuous support in the planning team was organized implementation of important In 2019, we completed a in the autumn according to the in-house educations. large development and 360° method. This is a tool that education program for was frequently and successfully MAINTENANCE ACADEMY talented employees and used for development AND INDUSTRIAL ACADEMY potential for 18 employees purposes in other departments, under the age of 30. The such as Sales, Marketing Two major international program, which was initiated and Controlling. After the development and education in 2018, incorporated three processing of the results, all the programs organized during modules and familiarized the participants in the assessment 2019, the Maintenance attendees with various topics: received an individualized Academy and Industrial understanding Dukat’s business report with recommendations Academy, were each attended context and environment, for development and by one candidate from Dukat. values and manner of work, the participated in an interview The second cycle of the development of fundamental in the presence and with the Maintenance academy managerial skills, understanding support of the business partner gathered 17 attendees the principles of controlling for the Supply chain and his/ maintenance managers and and developing business her superior officer. experts from various countries. communication and personal While attending three modules influence. In addition to the INTERNAL KNOWLEDGE of theoretical and practical workshops, the attendees TRANSFER AND DAILY activities, the attendees worked on projects and LOGISTICS MANAGEMENT mastered the tools for risk presented the results in front of assessment, the development a panel of judges consisting of To preserve the quality of of preventive maintenance and senior management members. Dukat’s internal education, the the achievement of maximal Near the end of 2019, the emphasis in 2019 was placed savings. attendees participated in a on improving the training skills “Development centre”, i.e. of the in-house trainers. Three The Industrial Academy is in a set of tests simulating employees from the hygiene organized with the goal of various aspects of the business and sanitary protection and achieving the exchange of environment, where the team of work safety department from best practices in project experts evaluated and assessed Zagreb and Bjelovar, five management, improvement in their success and degree of colleagues from the Logistics the industrial domain and in competence development. department from Zagreb and the domain of production team Split and five colleagues from management. 18 THE “PULS 2019” PROJECT focus groups consisting of opinions and proposals for the FOR THE BJELOVAR AND employees from Production, improvement of work within KARLOVAC PLANTS AND Quality and Maintenance, as their own domains. A total of LOGISTICS AT THE LOCATION well as Logistics from the 116 employees were divided Bjelovar and Karlovac Plants. into 12 groups in Bjelovar, Encouraged by the success The focus of the workshops while a total of 67 employees of the “Puls 2019” project was on the challenges brought were divided into 8 groups in organized in the autumn of by frequent and quick changes Karlovac. The results of the 2018 with the employees of the in the dynamic business workshops and action plans Zagreb Plant and Logistics in environment with the goal were presented to the Plant Zagreb and Split, the project for the employees of giving and Logistics managers to was also organized in Karlovac their personal contribution to enable their implementation as and Bjelovar Plants in 2019. the efficient management of soon as possible. The project gathered around changes, by presenting their In addition to the above-mentioned development programs, a large number of in-house workshops and modular training sessions covering various topics were organized in 2019. Some training sessions included practical work on Tetrapak fillers, while others dealt with understanding the FSSC 22000 standard and the development of social skills such as efficient stress management or the improvement of supervisory skills. PERFORMANCE APPRAISAL Performance is evaluated each were included in the performance evaluation for year within the Management performance appraisal system, employees in Production, review project and an almost the same as in the Maintenance and Quality, individual development plan previous year. was also carried out in 2019, is created for employees with making the total percentage recognized high potential. In In addition to the standard of evaluated Dukat employees 2019, 13 percent of employees Management review project, greater than 50 percent. PROFESSIONAL PRACTICES AND VISITS which is one more than in the Sciences in Zagreb and the previous year. Faculty of Food Technology at the University of Karlovac. We continued our cooperation Furthermore, Dukat also During the visit, students take with vocational secondary traditionally hosts professional a tour of the Zagreb Plant and schools in Zagreb and Bjelovar, visits of students from are introduced to the entire and for this reason, in 2019, the Food Technology and production process, from the seven students completed Biotechnology Faculty reception of milk to production their professional internship at (dairy science and nutrition and storage. In 2019, Dukat the Zagreb and Bjelovar plant. engineering programs), hosted seven such visits and Veterinary Faculty, Agronomy 312 students (5 percent less University students also do Faculty, Chemical Engineering than in 2018) visited Dukat and their internships at Dukat. and Technology Faculty at its Zagreb Plant. During 2019, ten students the University of Zagreb, did their internship at Dukat, University of Applied Health 19 ANNUAL AWARDS At the end of each year, prizes are awarded to the below 30 years of age introduced in 2017 and the most successful employees, managers and teams most successful sales representative, introduced in who excelled in their work, achieved results and the 2018 another new category has been introduced application of the corporate values throughout the in 2019 “thank you for your support”, the award year. Rewarding exceptional individuals and teams is for the best mentor. A total of 13 individual awards a 20-year-old tradition of Dukat and all employees were presented to individuals in 2019 (five for the are invited to nominate their colleagues and project best employees, three for young hopes, two for teams. In addition to the three already traditional the best mentors, one for the sales representative, prize categories (the most successful employees, one for the manager of the year and one lifetime manager and team) and two newer categories achievement award) and one award was presented the most successful “young hope” for employees to a team comprising 23 employees. INTERNAL COMMUNICATION Various channels are used and associated companies Space for trade unions and for internal communication: participate in creating it, and works council’s notices is also Intranet (internal web), e-mail, other employees may also provided. VPN mobile system, the inparticipate with their stories house newsletter Contact, and photographs. Furthermore, Dukat fosters notice boards, meetings and an open-door policy, which “face-to-face” communication. Notice boards are particularly implies direct communication important for employees in with the department The in-house magazine production and logistics, as management. As well as Contact, published they have no access to the directly, employees can quarterly, is intended for Intranet. Information about contribute their remarks, employees of Dukat and company events, the launch comments and ideas associated companies in of new products, employee anonymously, using boxes for Croatia. Representatives benefits, etc. are regularly comments and ideas placed at of various departments posted on notice boards. all production sites. 20 19. 2018.1ŽIV1OT 7NAŠE ZIMA To improve internal communication, at the end E GRUP of 2017, Human Resources started the practice of informing employees about key human resources activities, promotions, PROLJEĆE 20 1ŽIVO1T 8U FOKUSU 19. new employment and ESETLJ EĆA DVA D a LGG® U FOKUSU NAŠE v organizational changes, PREMIJER PL ENKOVIĆ INTERVJU GRUPE b.Akti NJE N AGRA DE POSJETIO TV ORNICU SA SIGGIJEM GODIŠ JEŠNIJIM P NAJUS NICIMA I changes related to legislation BJELOVAR HILMARSON OSNIVAČEM OM, BRENDA SLE ZAPO A IM DUKATU PONO SIGGI'S VOZAČ and employees’ rights by way PRIZNANJE VNO NAJDONATOR of an electronic newsletter. The newsletter is distributed twice a year and apart from a. lenicim zapos djelu raspo the e-version, it is also placed internu ljučivo za lis, isk on the bulletin boards. časo pis Gr upe Lacta zaposlenici ma. Interni isključivo DAR LJETO-JESE 119 N 2019. za intern In 2018, Marketing also u raspodjelu ZAPOSLENIC IMA OVORNOM IZVJEŠTAJ O ODG ŽIVOT NA Grupe Lacta ŠE launched a newsletter to Interni časo lis, POSLOVANJU GRUPE pis inform employees about new products that were launched ZIMA 2019.-20. on the market, as well as the 1ŽIV2OT 0 NAŠE most significant marketing GRUPE campaigns. The newsletter GODIŠNJE NA GRADE NAJUSPJEŠNIJIM is distributed quarterly, and U FOKUARSU I KARLOVAC ZAPOSLE IMA NIC KIM MLJEK apart from the e-version, it ZLATNA KUNA NAJBOLJI VOZAČ I internu IZGRADNJE LA LOGA U 201 9. raspodje U FOKUS is also placed on the bulletin 40 GODINA OD REB lu zapo slenicim POGLED NA U TVORNICE ZAG a. IZA NAS SEZONU Interni boards. časopis Grupe ZELENA ČI ST Lactalis, isključivo TRI PROIZV KA NA DOGA-DA za LOKACIJE ODNE GODIŠNJI NJA SA SENZORIČ STANAK ARA LACT ALIS GRUP E a. zaposlenicim raspodjelu ivo za internu Lactalis, isključ is Grupe Interni časop EMPLOYEE BENEFITS Dukat offers its employees is expanded each year, so cheaper bus tickets for travel and employees of associated employees get cheaper passes to two thousand destinations. companies in Croatia a number to the Museum of Illusions, Employees can also benefit from of benefits as an additional reprise shows at the Croatian arranged discounted prices to benefit and stimulus to spend National Theatre in Zagreb and swimming pools and the World quality leisure time, while also shows at the “Histrionski dom” of Saunas at Terme Tuhelj. These generating savings. As a longCulture Centre. A permanent benefits apply to employees time sponsor of the Zagreb ZOO, discount was arranged for Dukat and to their family members or Dukat employees have access employees in four Ghetaldus friends accompanying them. to free passes to the ZOO all optics stores, covering the year round. The list of benefits entire line, and FlixBus offers 21 COMMUNITY Dukat launches and supports projects that contribute to improving the quality of life and well-being of the community, families and individuals, and it systematically invests in the promotion of primary milk production and product development and quality 22 CONTRIBUTION TO THE COMMUNITY Dukat launches and supports projects that contribute to the improvement of the quality of life and well-being of the local community, families and individuals. These projects include health care, healthy habits (activity, recreation and sports), and encouraging education related to a proper and balanced diet. It also systematically invests in the promotion of primary milk production, product development and quality. DONATIONS OF OWN PRODUCTS FOR HUMANITARIAN ORGANIZATIONS AND INSTITUTIONS VAT). Apart from influencing • Humanitarian associations: the better quality nutrition humanitarian association of the socially endangered “Rijeka ljubavi” Osijek, population and the quality of humanitarian association In 2019, as in the previous life in general, these donations “Putevi milosti” Osijek, five years, Dukat’s donations of Dukat also contributed humanitarian association program focused on strategic to the fight against hunger “Friends of St. Martin” Beli donations of dairy products to and the consequences of Manastir, humanitarian humanitarian institutions (soup poverty, thus contributing to association “Duga” Vukovar, kitchens, social supermarkets the achievement of goals 2 humanitarian association “Put and humanitarian associations) and 3 of the UN Sustainable mira” Mirkovci, Association that care for especially Development Goals (Goal 2: of Parents with Children vulnerable groups of adults and Zero hunger and Goal 3: Good Suffering from Malignant children throughout Croatia. health and well-being). Illnesses “Hrabro dijete” These are primarily associations Nova Gradiška, Association and organizations registered At the same time, with these for Aiding Children with with the Ministry of Agriculture donations, Dukat reduced the Disabilities “ADHD and I” as intermediaries in the food quantity of discarded products Dugo Selo, humanitarian donation chain, to which Dukat and, along with the positive association “fra Mladen has been making regular social and humanitarian impact, Hrkać” Zagreb, Homeless donations since 2015. the project also generated a center “Milosrđe” Karlovac – positive environmental impact, Center for homeless people In 2019, Dukat donated 145 tons thus contributing to the UN Karlovac, City of Valpovo of dairy products. Through its Sustainable Development Goal Roma Association, Roma regular donations program, target 12.3. (12. Responsible Association “Sara” Torjaci, Dukat provided 43,000 children consumption and production; Association Veličanka, and adults who live in poverty target 12.3. calls for cutting humanitarian association and are unable to afford these food waste at the retail and “Dar dobrote” Našice, products themselves with more consumer level and reducing humanitarian association than 740 thousand dairy meals, food losses along production “Naš san, njihov osmijeh” Pula from Vukovar to Dubrovnik. and supply chains). • Homes for children: Zagreb Home for Children, Home for Since the systemic food As part of the strategic food Children “Maestral” Split, St. donation program was initiated donation program, in 2019, Joseph Home for Children, in 2015 (2015-2019), Dukat Dukat donated its products St. Frances Vugrovec House, has donated 1,045 tons of with close expiration dates Vladimir Nazor Service dairy products in total, with a to the following registered Center, Home for Education procurement value of HRK 11.1 intermediaries in the food of Children and Youth in million (no VAT) and with a donating chain: Karlovac sale value of HRK 15 million (no 23 • Soup kitchens: Caritas soup Social supermarket „Kruh Caritas of the Dubrovnik kitchens in Osijek, Slavonski sv. Elizabete“ Rijeka, Social Diocese, Vrbovsko Parish Brod, Vinkovci, Daruvar, Sisak, supermarket Karlovac • Other: Remar Croatia Zadar, Šibenik, Split, Knin and • Red Cross: Buje Red Cross, Association, Reto center Split, St. Anthony of Padua Parish Čakovec Red Cross, IvanićHome for Addicts – “Meeting” in Zagreb Grad Red Cross, Sisak Red community, Center for Missing • Social supermarkets: Social Cross, Solin Red Cross, and Abused Children Osijek, supermarket Siget, Social Županja Red Cross Center for Rehabilitation supermarket Belišće, Social • Caritas and Diocese: Caritas Rijeka, Karlovac Women’s supermarket GDCK Krapina, of the Zagreb Archdiocese, Group “Step” DONATIONS OF DAIRY PRODUCTS TO HUMANITARIAN ORGANISATIONS IN 2019 145 tons HRK 2.1 billion 53 organisations / sales value 1,045 tons 2015-2019 (no VAT); HRK 15 billion 2015-2019 intermediaries receiving donations approximately 746 thousand dairy meals 43,171 beneﬁciaries 483 donations 217,243 11,198 are children 372 shipments HRK of wich out of which logistics expense 2% 1% DONATIONS BY TYPE OF RECIPIENT (in kg) 6% SOUP KITCHENS 8% SOCIAL CHILLED DAIRY HUM. ASSOCIATIONS CHILDREN’S HOMES MILK SUPERMARKETS CHEESE RED CROSS CARITAS OTHER OTHER 83% CREAM 65,117 31,497 25,418 11,734 6,634 2,338 2,090 DONATIONS BY COUNTY (in kg) DONATIONS BY REGION (in kg) OSIJEK-BARANJA 43,538 CITY OF ZAGREB 41,052 VUKOVAR-SRIJEM 17,454 CENTRAL AND SOUTH ADRIATIC BROD-POSAVLJE 11,756 NORTH ADRIATIC AND LIKA SISAK-MOSLAVINA 5,979 BJELOVAR-BILAGORA 5,186 NORTH-WEST CROATIA PRIMORJE-GORSKI KOTAR 4,413 KARLOVAC 4,108 KOPRIVNICA-KRIŽEVCI 2,639 CENTRAL CROATIA SPLIT-DALMATIA 2,453 POŽEGA-SLAVONIA 1,621 EAST CROATIA ŠIBENIK-KNIN 1,452 MEĐIMURJE 1,178 ZADAR 952 ISTRIA 824 KRAPINA-ZAGORJE 124 DUBROVNIK-NERETVA 100 74,369 56,325 5,238 4,957 3,940 TOTAL in kg 144,829 24 THE SECOND RECOGNITION FOR BEING THE LARGEST DONOR OF FOOD IN CROATIA Dukat’s leadership role in food donations in Croatia Network” platform, with the aim of rewarding the was recognized by the public two years in a row greatest donors, increasing awareness of food when Dukat was given the “The Best Donor” donation issues and inspiring other companies to award. Dukat deserved this second recognition donate. The basic selection criteria were the data on as the largest single donor of food in Croatia in donations in the previous year, which the companies 2018, donating 192 tons of food, i.e. a quarter of are required to report under the Ordinance on the total food donated, and as the largest donor conditions, criteria and methods for donating food. in the category of producers. This recognition was The recognition was awarded to Dukat in April 2019 awarded by the MEP Biljana Borzan and the “Food at the European Parliament in Brussels. MILK PRODUCERS Dukat, one of the leading milk purchasers in Croatia, is an important factor for the stability and sustainability of the domestic dairy sector. Encouraging development of primary milk production in Croatia is one of the strategic determinants of Dukat’s socially responsible business. In 2019, Dukat, one of the in general. In 2019, Dukat Building and nurturing longlargest milk purchasers in subsidized the purchase raw term partnerships with milk Croatia, acquired 185.1 million materials for milk production producers, the secured kg of fresh raw milk from for its cooperants with HRK placement of produced local dairy farms, which is 58.5 million. In 2019, the total milk, the timely payment of 2.8 percent less than the investment of Dukat into financial obligations towards year before. The decrease in subsidizing milk production in milk producers, professional milk purchase is the result Croatia was 4.4 percent higher education and counselling, of declining milk production than in 2018. improvement of milk in Croatia, a negative trend production through higher recorded by the domestic Thanks to Dukat’s continuous quantities and a better quality dairy sector for a number of investment in the domestic of produced milk, as well as consecutive years. With this primary sector, in terms of free market competition, are decreased milk production, in investing its own financial the foundations for the long2019, the domestic dairy sector resources and in terms of term cooperation between also witnessed a drop in the counselling and support by Dukat and the milk producers number of milk producers. Dukat’s team of veterinaries and for the sustainability of the and agronomists, Dukat has domestic dairy sector. In 2019, Dukat purchased milk been recording a continuous from 2,543 large, medium and increase in the quality of TOTAL INVESTMENTS IN small milk producers all across produced milk within its SUBSIDIZING PRIMARY MILK Croatia. Dukat nurtures longcollection area. PRODUCTION (HRK MILLION) term partner relationships 58.5 with the majority of these milk As Dukat’s business is based 56.1 producers, contributing to the on the processing of fresh raw 50.9 development of rural Croatia. milk of the highest quality, Furthermore, Dukat produced on domestic dairy continuously invests significant farms, Dukat milk carries amounts of its own funds the label “Milk from Croatian in the stimulation and farms”, awarded by the development of the business Croatian Agriculture Agency, of the milk producers it works specifically the Croatian with, as well as the stimulation Agency for Agriculture and of milk production in Croatia Food. 2017 2018 2019 25 MEMBERSHIPS IN ASSOCIATIONS THAT PROMOTE SUSTAINABLE DEVELOPMENT an active member of other Global Compact, the world’s associations that promote largest corporate social sustainable development and responsibility initiative, as well environmental protection, as the Croatian Network of In 1998, Dukat was one such as the Community for Global Compact. of the founders, and CSR and the Community for since then a member of environmental protection In 1998, Dukat was one of the Croatian Business in the economy of the the founders, and since then Council for Sustainable Croatian Chamber of the a member of the Croatian Development (HR BCSD), a Economy, EKO-Ozra and Business Council for Sustainable non-profit institution of the GIUPAK (Economic interest Development (HR BCSD), and private sector encouraging grouping for packaging and since 2012 a member of the sustainable development in environmental protection). United Nations Global Compact the economy. Along with its and the Croatian Network of long-standing membership Since 2012, Dukat has been a Global Compact. in HR BCSD, Dukat is also member of the United Nations FOCUSING ON PRODUCT QUALITY all employees, suppliers and and e-mail, also includes business partners, generating communication via Dukat’s positive effects on the Facebook page, is open to community and the financial opinions, comments and The greatest attention is paid results of the company. inquiries by consumers to the quality and safety about products and as such of products to fulfil the Having recognized the presents valuable source of demands and expectations importance of two-way information and an incentive of consumers. Therefore, our communication with for continued improvement. products not only have to consumers, ensuring a timely It also represents one of meet certain quality standards, and complete response, Dukat important internal tools for such as ISO 9001, ISO 22000, has had a free Consumer tracking consumer satisfaction IFS, HACCP, and Kosher and Phone since 1998, and was and product quality. Halal certificates for specific the first dairy industry and product groups, but they strive one of the first in the Croatian In 2019, 25.1 percent of the to exceed them in accordance food industry to introduce a total number of contacts with internal quality standards. free hotline for consumers. (complaints, comments This communication channel and praises) received by Dukat’s Quality, environmental (currently Customer Service), the Customer Service were and food safety management which in addition to phone complaints, which is 19.1 policy confirms the focus of the company on the continuous improvement Dukat is the first dairy industry and one of the first in of quality on all business the Croatian food industry to introduce a free hotline for levels, as well as the use of consumers in 1998, currently Customer Service, which appropriate energy sources includes telephone and email communication, as well as and raw materials, to achieve communication via social networks. the satisfaction of consumers, 26 percent less than in 2018. If was accepted by 66.7 percent frequency and intensity. A we break down complaints of consumers (compared to stable trend is also noticeable by plants, the Bjelovar Plant 58.4 percent the year before), in this domain. The average is recorded a decrease in the while others were satisfied 15-20 complaints per 100,000 number of complaints by with just an apology. processed delivery orders. The 11.5 percent and the Zagreb intensity of complaints is low Plant recorded a 28.5 percent Since 2015, we have also and in 2019 amounted to 2.5 decrease, while the number been monitoring consumer kg of disputable products per of complaints at the Karlovac complaints in terms of 10 tons of delivered products. Plant decreased by 20.8 percent compared to 2018. CUSTOMER COMPLAINTS PER MILLION ITEMS SOLD The same trend was recorded (PPM) BY PLANT if we observe the number of product complaints per million 2.77 2.55 items sold (ppm). All three plants in Croatia recorded a decrease in the number of 1.84 1.87 complaints per million items 1.42 sold. 1.30 Of the total complaints 0.80 0.81 received, a visit from a sales 0.62 representative and the replacement of the product Zagreb Bjelovar Karlovac CUSTOMER COMPLAINTS PER MILLION ITEMS SOLD 2017 2018 2019 (PPM) 2.29 2.07 Dukat was the first food and dairy company in Croatia to 1.65 launch expert panels for the sensory evaluation of products in 2016, comprising specially trained external associates. In addition to two panels with 31 panellists in total, products are also regularly evaluated by Dukat’s 14 long-term tasters – employees who are members of the two plant panels. 2017 2018 2019 INVESTMENTS IN THE NEW PRODUCTION LINES AND WAREHOUSES AT THE BJELOVAR PLANT In the spring of 2019, we have commissioned new and hard cheeses and butter. This investment production lines and a newly built cold storage shall form a basis for the further development, for finished products at our Bjelovar Plant (Sirela), production and export of authentic, high-quality with the financial support of the European cheeses, such as Sirela Podravec, Ribanac, Dimsi, Agricultural Fund for Rural Development. The Trapist, Bjelovar salty cheese and others. total cost of the investment was HRK 43.5 million, of which Dukat invested HRK 22.2 million, the By the end of 2020, Dukat will have invested European Agricultural Fund provided HRK 18.1 an additional HRK 14 million from its own million and the Government of the Republic of funds into the Bjelovar Plant, aiming to further Croatia provided HRK 3.2 million. In 2019, at our increase the production capacity and strengthen Bjelovar Plant, we have processed 82.5 million competitiveness. litres of fresh raw milk into fresh, semi-hard 27 DISCOUNT STORES OPENING Trying to meet the needs of its fellow citizens with Brod and at the Jarun market in Zagreb (opened a lower material status, in 2019, Dukat continued in 2018), a fifth discount store was opened in 2019 to expand discount stores that sell Dukat, Sirela, as the third store in Zagreb, at Trešnjevački market. President and Galbani brands of milk, dairy With the above said, all Dukat discount stores also products and cheese at lower prices compared to sell products that are about to expire, with prices regular stores. In addition to the discount stores 50 to 70 percent lower than regular prices. in Dolac in Zagreb and in Bjelovar, in Slavonski THE DUKAT FIT CYCLING RACE AND THE DUKATINO RACE FOR CHILDREN cyclists of all ages participated in the race, which is 6,9 percent less than in the previous year, but 44 percent of the participants were children. The eighth Dukat cycling race in Zagreb was held With the aim of promoting urban cycling as an before the European Mobility Week and under the ecologically acceptable manner of transport and patronage of the Mayor of the City of Zagreb. Since an activity that positively influences the health of 2012, more than 4,000 cyclists, children and adults, individuals and families, in 2019, Dukat once again have participated in ten races (eight in Zagreb and organized the “Dukat Fit” race and the “Dukatino two in Zadar) organized by Dukat. race for children” in Zagreb. In five categories, 571 28 DUKAT’S OPEN DOOR DAYS FOR STUDENTS milk and dairy products for the proper growth and development of children. In 2019, the Zagreb plant was visited by 670 As part of “Dukat’s Open Door Days”, an students from 13 elementary schools from Zagreb educational and fun project implemented under the and the surrounding areas, which is 60.7 percent patronage of the Ministry of Science and Education more students than the year before. since late 2012, Dukat has been hosting third and fourth graders from Croatian elementary schools Since the project was launched, 3,709 students for one day every month during the school year. visited Dukat and its Zagreb Plant (October 2012 During their visit to Dukat and its Zagreb Plant, – December 2019), and the great interest in this students have the opportunity to learn about the program is demonstrated by the fact that all the milk’s route “from the field to the table” and about terms have been fully booked for almost two school the significance of the everyday consumption of years in advance. EIGHTH CREATIVE DRAWING PROJECT “I LOVE MILK!” limited series of Dukat’s UHT milk The competition is held under packaging. The announcement the patronage of the Ministry of the winners and half-day of Science and Education and educational and creative the Ministry of Health. All the workshops for the grades of the participants in the competition Since 2012, Dukat has been awarded students were held in were sent personalized thankholding the creative drawing the beginning of 2020 at the you-letters, while some teachers competition “I love milk!” to Museum of Contemporary Art in also received mentorship encourage the public to create Zagreb, a partner in the project certificates necessary for their proper dietary habits and draw that has been involved since its further professional development. attention to the importance inception. of daily milk consumption, especially among school-age children. In the past eight years, 24,309 elementary school students and their teachers from all parts of Croatia participated in the competition. In 2019, a total of 3,305 artworks were received for the competition from 178 elementary schools. The four winning drawings of the funniest milk packaging, selected by an independent jury, were used for a 29 ENVIRONMENT Dukat has been building its own environmental management system, continuously reducing its impact on the environment 30 PRINCIPLE 8 Undertake initiatives to promote greater environmental PRINCIPLE 7 Responsibility, Businesses should support a precautionary approach to environmental challenges; PRINCIPLE 9 Encourage the development and diffusion of environmentally friendly technologies. Strategically focused on a responsible attitude towards the environment and operations in accordance with the sustainable development policy, over time, Dukat has been building its own environmental management system, continuously reducing its negative impact on the environment. ISO 14001 and 50001 certificates are evidence of Dukat’s efforts and continuous improvements in the area of environmental protection and efficient energy management. MATERIALS PACKAGING As a large-scale producer, DATA ON PACKAGING PUT INTO CIRCULATION (t) – DUKAT Inc. we take care of the environmental acceptability Type of packaging material (t) 2017 2018 2019 of our products and strive Metal to introduce economic and (Al bottle for whipped cream 35 40 44 environmentally friendly 250 ml) packaging materials. Paper/ cardboard 2,091 2,065 2,116 In compliance with the Multi-layer packaging with a Ordinance on packaging 1,287 1,299 1,330 predominant paper component and packaging waste, Dukat prepares quarterly and PET 595 593 569 annual reports on the types Polymers 2,754 2,729 2,775 and volumes of packaging TOTAL 6,762 6,726 6,834 put into circulation, and it prepares additional monthly reports. We bear the cost of packaging waste disposal and TOTAL WEIGHT OF PACKAGING PUT INTO management in accordance CIRCULATION (t) – DUKAT Inc. with the reports. Type of packaging material (t) 2017 2018 2019 In 2019, 1.5 percent more Multi-layer paper packaging 1,280 1,300 1,330 packaging was put into circulation by Dukat Paper/cardboard 2,100 2,100 2,100 compared to 2018, while 0.5 PET 600 600 600 percent less packaging was put into circulation in 2018 HDPE 2,000 1,300 2,000 than in 2017. The percentage Other polymers (PS, PE) 750 1.400 800 of material used as recycled Metals 35 40 44 input material was less than 3 percent. 31 ENERGY Since 2017, a system of energy products is being implemented at the locations of associated management according to at the Zagreb and Bjelovar companies (KIM Mljekara ISO 50001 for processes of plants, at logistic locations in Karlovac, LA LOG i B.P.A.C. the development, production Dubrovnik, Split, Zadar, Rijeka, Auto). and distribution of dairy Pula and Đakovo, as well as POWER Energy consumption is product was consumed in 2018 The ratio of consumed approached with great care than in 2017. power and production in and efforts are made towards 2019 amounted to 160 kWh/ savings in all stages of The total power consumption kg of processed milk, i.e. operations: in designing power at the Bjelovar Plant in 2019 17 percent more compared plants and technological was 13,036,698 kWh, 3.5 more to 2018 (137 kWh/kg). The processes, rational and compared to 2018 when the ratio of consumed power efficient process management consumption amounted to and production in 2018 is 11 and regular and quality 12,592,848 kWh. kWh/t higher than in 2017 (126 maintenance. Due to the In 2018, the total power kWh/t) and, on average, is increased production demand consumption was 8.5 percent higher than the average in the during the summer months higher than in 2017. past five years. and the intensive use of the cooling system during summer, the energy consumption increased from June to TOTAL POWER CONSUMPTION (kWh) September. 23,643,661 23,495,872 23,213,474 In 2019, the total power consumption at the Zagreb Plant was 23,643,661 kWh, which is 1.5 percent more 13,036,698 than in 2018. In 2018, power 12,592,848 11,520,534 consumption was 0.3 percent lower than in 2017. The ratio of consumed power per ton of processed milk was 248 kWh/t in 2019, and in 2018 it was 2017 2018 2019 247 kWh/t, meaning that nine percent more power per ton of Zagreb Plant Bjelovar Plant Power (kWh) 2017 2018 2019 Zagreb Plant 23,495,872 kWh 23,213,474 kWh 23,643,661 kWh Bjelovar Plant 11,520,534 kWh 12,592,848 kWh 13,036,698 kWh INVESTMENT IN A PHOTOVOLTAIC POWER PLANT WITH THE SUPPORT OF EU FUNDS In 2019, as part of Measure 4, operation 4.2.2. “Use of renewable sources of energy”, Dukat was granted co-financing for the construction of an 800 kWh solar power plant in Zagreb. The total value of the investment is HRK 4.5 million, of which the European Agricultural Fund for Rural Development and the Republic of Croatia will cover 50 percent in non-refundable funds, while the other 50 percent will be invested by Dukat from its own funds. The implementation of the project is planned for summer 2020, after which the warehouses and logistics buildings will be covered with photovoltaic panels that will generate 5 percent of the electricity requirement from the sun. 32 STEAM In 2019, the total steam Steam (t) 2017 2018 2019 consumption was 38,063 Zagreb Plant 36,324 t 38,257 t 38,063 t tons, which is 0.5 percent less compared to the steam consumption the year before. In 2018, steam consumption was 5 percent higher than in 2017. GAS Two combustion plants, each steam in two boilers with a The ratio of gas consumption of 4.4 MW, are installed at the total power of 9.9 MW and to production in 2019 was site of the Zagreb Plant, which one 1.16 MW thermogen for 32.59, while the average are categorized as medium producing hot air. In 2019, amount in 2018 was 32.92 m3 combustion plants according 2,674,032 m3 of gas was used, gas/t of processed milk. The to the Ordinance on limit which is 11 percent less than ratio of gas consumption to values for pollutant emissions the consumption in 2018. In production in 2017 was 32.62 into the air. The plants are 2018, 2,995,424 m3 of gas was m3 gas/t of processed milk. fuelled by natural gas. used, which is 1.5 percent more than the consumption in 2017. In 2019, 3,003,605 m3 of gas were consumed, which is 0.6 percent lower compared to the gas consumption in 2018. In 2018, 3,020,480 m3 of gas TOTAL GAS CONSUMPTION (m3) were consumed, which is 3.2 percent higher compared to 3,020,480 3,003,605 the gas consumption in 2017. 2,995,424 2,926,969 2,950,542 The emissions of pollutants into the air from both plants were measured in December 2019 and the values met 2,674,032 the prescribed emission limit values according to the Ordinance on limit values of pollutants in the air. Bjelovar Plant has its own production of heat energy – 2017 2018 2019 Zagreb Plant Bjelovar Plant Gas 2017 2018 2019 Zagreb Plant 2,926,969 m3 3,020,480 m3 3,003,605 m3 Bjelovar Plant 2,950,542 m3 2,995,424 m3 2,674,032 m3 33 WATER TOTAL WATER CONSUMPTION (m³) 398,493 396,196 374,537 299,966 285,930 Dukat assigns great importance 266,781 to economic water consumption and constantly seeks new ways to reduce its consumption. Both plants (Zagreb and Bjelovar) draw the majority of their water from their artesian wells, while 2017 2018 2019 the rest is from the public water supply. Zagreb Plant Bjelovar Plant 2017 2018 2019 Quantity (m3) Water (m3) Public Public Public Own Own Own water Total water Total water Total well well well supply supply supply Zagreb 7,408 367,129 374,537 5,519 392,974 398,493 3,060 393,136 396,196 Plant Bjelovar 3.520 263.261 266.781 21.408 278.558 299.966 20.476 265.454 285.930 Plant ZAGREB PLANT In 2019, the total water was 393,136 m3 or 0.04 percent than in 2018 and amounted to consumption at the Zagreb more than in 2018. In 2018, 4.2 compared to 4.15 in 2018. In Plant was 396,196 m3, which is the total water consumption 2017, the index of production 0.6 percent less than the total was 398,493 m3, which is 6.4 was 4.0 and was the same as water consumption in 2018. percent more than the total the index of production the Water consumption from the water consumption in 2017. year before. public water supply was 3,060 m3, which is 44.6 percent The index of production (IP per lower than in 2018. Water one kilogram of a produced consumption from own well product) was higher in 2019 BJELOVAR PLANT In 2019, the total water Water consumption from from our own wells is 265,454 consumption was 4.7 percent the public water supply m3, i.e. 4.7 percent less lower (285,930 m3) than the was 20,476 m3, which is 4.4 compared to 2018 (278,558 total water consumption in percent lower than in 2018. m3), while the consumption of 2018 (299,966 m3). In 2018, Water consumption from the water from our own wells in total water consumption was public water supply in 2018 2018 was 5.8 percent higher 11.1 percent higher than the was 21,408 m3, which is much compared to the consumption total water consumption in higher than in 2017 (3,520 m3). in 2017. 2017 (266,781 m3). The consumption of water 34 In 2019, the average ratio of water consumption to water/kg of processed milk, of water consumption to processed milk was 2.9 l of which is higher than in 2017. processed milk was 3.51 l of water/kg of processed milk, INDEX OF PRODUCTION (l water/kg of processed milk) which is higher than in 2018, 4.20 4.15 4.00 when it was 3.29 l of water/kg 3.51 3.29 of processed milk. The reason 2.96 for this is the lower quantity of processed milk, which caused shorter production cycles and more frequent washing between such cycles. In 2018, the average ratio 2017 2018 2019 Zagreb Plant Bjelovar Plant EMISSIONS INTO THE AIR ZAGREB PLANT As mentioned above in the The emissions of pollutants emission limit values under the section on Gas, there are two into the air from both devices Ordinance on limit values for combustion plants running on were measured in 2019 and pollutant emissions into the air. natural gas at the site of the the values meet the prescribed Zagreb Plant. EMISSIONS INTO THE AIR FROM THE FUEL COMBUSTION PROCESS TO OBTAIN THERMAL ENERGY IN 2019 Data on the type and quantity of emissions from outlet 1 Pollutant Standard / methodology Quantity of emissions: total (kg/yr) Nitrogen oxides as nitrogen HR EN 14792:2007 2,969 dioxide (NO2) Carbon dioxide (CO2) 2,903,866 Carbon monoxide (CO) HR EN 15058:2008 150 Data on fuel type and consumption Fuel name Fuel consumption Lower heating value Natural gas 1,501,802 m3/god. 34,640 Data on emission measurement results Gas fuel: Natural gas Substance Measurement result (mg/m3) Nitrogen oxides as nitrogen dioxide (NO2) 197 Carbon monoxide (CO) 10 35 Data on the type and quantity of emissions from outlet 2 Pollutant Standard / methodology Quantity of emissions: total (kg/yr) Nitrogen oxides as nitrogen HR EN 14792:2007 1,919 dioxide (NO2) Carbon dioxide (CO2) 2,903,866 Carbon monoxide (CO) HR EN 15058:2008 150 Data on fuel type and consumption Fuel name Fuel consumption Lower heating value Natural gas 1,501,802 m3/yr 34,640 Data on emission measurement results Gas fuel: Natural gas Substance Measurement result (mg/m3) Nitrogen oxides as nitrogen dioxide (NO2) 127 Carbon monoxide (CO) 10 BJELOVAR PLANT There are four sources of emissions of combustion pollutant emissions into the air. emissions of pollutants into the products, According to the Decision air at the site of the Bjelovar • one outlet of the milk drying on the amendment of the Plant: plant’s de-duster (nonEnvironmental permit, date • two outlets from boiler energy) organic dust. 12 January 2018, the limit chimneys – emissions of value for the emission of total combustion products, The emissions of pollutants powder substances from the • one outlet from the into the air were measured and dryer was increased from 20 thermoelectric generator the values meet the prescribed mg/m3 to 60 mg/m3. for the production of hot emission limit values under the air (milk drying plant) Ordinance on limit values for EMISSIONS INTO THE AIR FROM THE THERMOELECTRIC GENERATOR CHIMNEY AND BOILER CHIMNEYS 1 AND 2 (BJELOVAR PLANT) Type of outlet: Thermoelectric generator chimney Data on the type and quantity of emissions from outlets Quantity of emissions: total Pollutant Standard / methodology (kg/yr) Carbon monoxide (CO) HRN EN 15058 57.72 Carbon dioxide (CO2) / 981,150.17 Nitrogen oxides as nitrogen HRN EN 14792 134.97 dioxide (NO2) Particles (PM 10) / 7.91 36 Type of outlet: Boiler chimney 1 Data on the type and quantity of emissions from outlets Quantity of emissions: total Pollutant Standard / methodology (kg/yr) Nitrogen oxides as nitrogen HRN EN 14792 1,864.67 dioxide (NO2) Carbon monoxide (CO) HRN EN 15058 206.27 Carbon dioxide (CO2) / 3,838,479.60 Particles (PM 10) / 30.94 Type of outlet: Boiler chimney 2 Data on the type and quantity of emissions from outlets Quantity of emissions: total Pollutant Standard / methodology (kg/yr) Nitrogen oxides as nitrogen HRN EN 14792 82.83 dioxide (NO2) Carbon monoxide (CO) HRN EN 15058 10.86 Carbon dioxide (CO2) / 202,024.16 Particles (PM 10) / 1.63 WASTEWATER ZAGREB PLANT There were no deviations of Technologies for reducing • Technological processes individual parameters (oxygen emissions into water in the plant have been chemical consumption, BPK5, • Filters have been installed optimized; the milk pH, total oils and fats value) in production plants sewers processing plants are in 2019 from the set values of that separate labels, caps and regularly maintained to the water management license other materials. prevent the discharge of for discharge into the public • Chlorine-based chemicals organic matter into the sewerage system of the city of have been replaced with sewerage system. Zagreb recorded at the site of peroxideand acetic acidthe Zagreb Plant. based formulas. 37 BJELOVAR PLANT The Bjelovar Plant has its the water, after the purification 3,329 mg/l), compared to 2018 own wastewater treatment process, was 250.0 mg/litre, (COD = 2,796 mg/l). plant with a capacity of 1100 which is less than in 2018 when The wastewater treatment m3/ day, and the processed the COD was 297.7 mg/litre. factor in 2018 (1.12) was lower wastewater outflows meet The average COD value compared to 2017 (1.15), the limit values under the (chemical oxygen demand) in which is the result of the water management license. the water, after the purification better efficiency of the water Outflowing wastewater is process, was higher in 2018 treatment device. discharged into the public than in 2017 when the COD sewage of the City of Bjelovar was 173.3 mg/litre. Compared The sludge resulting from the after the treatment procedure. to the output COD in 2018 wastewater treatment process (298 mg/L), in 2019 (250 is not being centrifuged and In 2019, a total of 239,985 m3 mg/L), there is a noticeable is transported with approx. of technological wastewater reduction in the output COD, 2.5 percent of solid matter, was processed by the which is the result of the and thus the overall quantity wastewater treatment plant, quantity of processed milk amounts to 10,589 m3. which is insignificantly (0.4 and the decrease in the overall percent) more than in 2018. production. (239,128 m3). In 2018, 10.4 percent more water was In 2019, the average Fx treated compared to 2017 (wastewater treatment factor) (214,332 m3). was 1.30 and in 2018 it was 1.12. The cause of the increase of The average COD value Fx is the increase of the input (chemical oxygen demand) in water COD in 2019 (COD = WASTE WASTE GENERATING AND PROCESSING Systematic waste management are directed at the prevention collected and selected, which is one of the fundamental and constant reduction of represents an increase of components of the generating all types of waste 1 percent compared to the environmental management and waste management in previous year. In 2018, the system. Re-usable waste accordance with economic total volume of separated with valuable characteristics principles. It is also the waste received was 814 tons, that can be used is collected objective of the company which is 1 percent less than and stored separately. to reduce communal waste in 2017. In the total balance, Dukat’s constant objective generating by increasing the mixed packaging was the most is to manage waste in an selection of generated waste. collected, followed by waste environmentally efficient paper and cardboard and manner. Precisely for this In 2019, at the Zagreb Plant, multilayer packaging waste. reason, continuous efforts 822 tons of waste were 38 NON-HAZARDOUS WASTE AT THE ZAGREB PLANT BY CATEGORY (t) 16.15 0.56 paper and composite 2.02 packaging plastic packaging wooden packaging metal packaging 269.33 278.99 multilayer (composite) packaging mixed packaging iron and steel 71.41 86.08 paper and cardboard bulk waste 2.56 6.14 BJELOVAR PLANT At the Bjelovar plant, waste mostly packaging that were collected (8.4 percent plastic and foil (73,440 kg) contains hazardous substances more than in 2017), mostly constitute the largest part of or has been contaminated by packaging that contains non-hazardous waste, which hazardous substances (5,733 hazardous substances or is 15 percent more than in the kg). In 2018, plastic packaging has been contaminated by previous year (63,720 kg). A was the type of non-hazardous hazardous substances (4,800 total of 9,424 kg of hazardous waste that was collected the kg). waste were collected (11 most (63,720 kg). A total of percent more than in 2018), 8,479 kg of hazardous waste CONSUMPTION OF CHEMICALS ZAGREB PLANT – CONSUMPTION OF WASHING AND DISINFECTING AGENTS In 2019, 4 percent more Zagreb Plant than the year more washing and disinfecting washing and disinfecting before, and in 2018, the Zagreb agents than in 2017. agents were consumed at the Plant consumed 10 percent Total volume of washing and 2017 2017 2019 disinfecting agents 980,372 kg 1,081,123 kg 1,128,560 kg 39 BJELOVAR PLANT CONSUMPTION OF CHEMICALS IN THE WASTE WATER TREATMENT PLANT In 2019, the total volume to carry out cleaning more 2017. Consumption of caustic of chemicals utilized in the often, resulting in the increase soda was 12.1 percent lower in wastewater treatment plant of chemicals. 2018 than in 2017 due to the was 27 percent higher than in In 2018, the total volume new manner of work of the 2018. Due to the decrease in of chemicals utilized in the wastewater treatment plant. production volume, the Plant wastewater treatment plant has to use smaller batches and was 23 percent lower than in Total volume of chemicals 2017 2018 2019 utilized in the waste water treatment plant 179,500 kg 138,200 kg 176,055 kg NOISE Noise for the day and night acoustic requirements, the devices during night work work conditions at the Zagreb noise level does not exceed (the ice water compressor and Plant site ranges within the the permissible values for ventilation on the street-facing legally permissible limits. the “day-night” time period. façade), noise levels during the Also, thanks to the noise night conditions do not exceed Based on the measured noise protection measures taken, the permissible values. levels within the Bjelovar by repairing the compressor Plant and based on the holes and by turning off noisy COMPLIANCE In accordance with the legal No deviation from the legal recorded and there was no provisions, Dukat makes and other regulations and need to undertake any of the an annual assessment of requirements was recorded prescribed measures in the adherence to (compliance in 2019. There were also event of incidents. with) the legal and other no extraordinary situations environmental regulations. SUPPLIER EVALUATION REGARDING THE IMPACT ON THE ENVIRONMENT of delivery (activities of plans, security protocols, suppliers or carriers did rules for unloading the not cause any pollution at remains of liquid cargo As part of the annual supplier the plant in the course of at the bottom of the tank evaluation, regarding the last year: accidental gas (stripping), waste separation impact on the environment, dispersion or emission, rules, etc.) the following activities are spilling of liquids, fire) • The offer to reimburse the assessed: • Adherence to environmental costs incurred by damage • Frequency of environmental requirements (supplier or (in cases when the delivered disasters at the point carrier adheres to prevention product generates waste or 40 by-products, the supplier offering solutions related to In 2019, all suppliers can offer a recycling path for environmental protection received the highest grade such waste, e.g. packaging) waste recycling, reduction of regarding their impact on the • Environmental awareness waste at the source, etc.). environment. (supplier contacted us GOALS FOR 2020 • The education and efficiency through monitoring • Decrease the impact of information of employees the realization of established plants on the environment on the obligations of Dukat EPIs (energy performance • Decrease the amount of according to the new indicators) waste generated environmental legislation • Design that improves energy • Commitment to the lasting efficiency improvement of energy DUKAT EMPLOYEES VOLUNTEER IN A CLEAN-UP CAMPAIGN FOR THE EIGHTH TIME LJETO-JESEN 2019 119 . In 2019, Dukat employees Bjelovar and Karlovac. Along ŽIVOT NAŠE once again joined the largest with collected waste (34 m3), GRUPE volunteer cleaning campaign employees donated a total of “Green clean-up – one day 123 working hours voluntarily for a clean environment”, joining the clean-up. In the part of the global “Let’s past eight years, 518 Dukat, do it!” movement. Seventy KIM and La Log employees employees from all three participated in the action, production plants in Croatia freeing the environment from participated in the action more than 200 cubic meters raspodjelu zaposlenicim U FOKUSU a. and cleaned up three illegal of waste. Lactalis, POGLED NA IZA NAS SEZONU isključivo dumping sites in Zagreb, za internu ZELENA ČISTKA NA DOGA-DANJA Interni časop TRI PROIZVOD NE is Grupe LOKACIJE GODIŠNJI SAS TAN SENZORIČARA AK LACTALIS GRUPE 41 ANTI-CORRUPTION AND CORPORATE GOVERNANCE Dukat applies strict anti-corruption standards in accordance with relevant internal documents and corporate policies 42 PRINCIPLE 10 Businesses should work against corruption in all its forms, including extortion and bribery Dukat applies strict anti-corruption standards in its daily operations, in accordance with the relevant internal documents and corporate policies and operates in compliance with the applicable regulations. Aware of the importance of responsible and ethically-based conduct, Dukat applies the Zagreb Stock Exchange’s Corporate Governance Code. ANTI-CORRUPTION Dukat’s anti-corruption the Intranet, expressly states There were no recorded activities can be divided into that “the employee shall reports on the suspicion of several main areas: receive salary for his/her corruption or incidences of work at the company. Any corruption in 2019 or the • Systematic improvement of other receiving or giving of previous years. the adherence to laws, rules money, inappropriate gifts or of operation, good business services is not in compliance It is Dukat’s strategic practices and ethical with the company’s by-laws commitment not to provide business practice and is therefore forbidden.” any material or non-material This objective is achieved support to any political party through the constant The system of internal controls or candidate, on the national or improvement of business and prescribed procedures local level. Dukat’s employees, processes and the education ensures the impartiality and as individuals, are free to of Dukat employees objectivity of the employees provide material support to responsible for the legality and management, and risk of any political party or candidate of operations and the corrupt actions and bribery is of their choice, from their own management of business minimized through: funds and in their free time, processes related to business • clearly defined and which is the responsibility and practice issues and constant prescribed ethical standards decision of each individual. legislative and business of business conduct required changes. Business processes of the employees and In 2019, Dukat was not a party are also set and monitored management to any of the procedures so that they are always • regularly assessing the initiated for conduct that is in compliance with the conditions of cooperation contrary to the free market principles mentioned in the with potential suppliers and competition principle, antiintroduction, by adopting customers trust or monopoly practices. and enforcing internal by• separate competences and laws, procedures and work processes in the process of instructions that are regularly the procurement of goods communicated by e-mail and and services the Intranet. • separate levels of business decision-making on • Internally regulated donations and sponsorships procedures and work • the procedure for prior legal instructions and financial control of each The Code of Conduct, contract entered into with available to employees on suppliers and customers 43 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE Dukat’s corporate key employees at Dukat and offices. Application of the management activities include: the Dukat Group and all its Code has contributed to the associated companies in improvement of high corporate • Operations in accordance the region (Slovenia, Serbia, governance standards and with the Companies Bosnia and Herzegovina and business transparency, which Act, Capital Market Act, North Macedonia) in order is completely aligned with the regular adoption and to ensure the continued positive legislation. implementation of the application of competition Zagreb Stock Exchange rules in business. The Code establishes Corporate Governance Code procedures for the actions of In this way, the legality, In accordance with the bodies in charge of decision transparency and publicity practice promoting respect for making and ensures the of operations are protected the rules of competition, Dukat prevention of conflicts of and corporate governance cooperates with the Croatian interest, efficient internal of the highest rank is Competition Agency on a supervision, and an efficient ensured, posing a systematic regular basis, submitting all the system of responsibility. obstacle to corruption data required by the Agency There is a clearly established and abuses. Dukat is and regularly participating in responsibility system for quoted on the Zagreb the Agency’s research into milk every subsidiary on the Dukat Stock Exchange, where it and dairy goods, as well as Group level, and Dukat as regularly publishes relevant distribution trade markets. a parent company actively business information for participates in all major shareholders, investors and In March 2019, Dukat continued decisions made individually the business community. In its participation in the research by the management of the addition to the Zagreb Stock of contractual relations in the subsidiaries, in accordance Exchange, all important milk and dairy product sector with the regulations and information is submitted in Croatia, carried out by the internal acts of the subsdiaries. to the Croatian Financial Agency for the Protection of Services Supervisory Agency Market Competition since 2018. The Code regulates the (HANFA), the Croatian It submitted all the requested mandatory publication of News Agency (HINA), and is information, documentation financial statements and published on the company’s and responses within the price-sensitive information, all website, in accordance with set deadline to the Agency in an attempt to improve the relevant regulations. for the Protection of Market transparency of information for Competition. current and potential investors • The implementation and to ensure equal conduct of practice concerning towards all interest holders. competition THE IMPLEMENTATION Dukat approaches OF THE CORPORATE Dukat’s decision-making competition as one of its GOVERNANCE CODE bodies fully apply the top priorities in operations Dukat Inc. (hereinafter: provisions of the Corporate and invests great effort into Dukat) voluntarily applies Governance Code in managing everyday business practices the Corporate Governance company operations. to asses each economic Code of the Zagreb Stock activity from this aspect as Exchange, which is available The overall internal control well. Accordingly, in 2019, on the Dukat and Zagreb systems of Dukat and of the we actively worked on the Exchange websites, as well Group include: continued education of all as in Dukat’s administrative 44 • An appropriate organization The Internal Audit reports and to the business operations structure on all levels, with findings are adopted by the of the company and making the separation of duties Management Board and the appropriate investment and defined reporting Audit committee of Dukat. decisions by publishing mechanisms towards upper The Internal Audit department reports and information in management of the parent company Dukat accordance with the applicable • Internal controls integrated Inc. is also responsible for the regulations, by way of the into business processes and internal audit of the activities Croatian Financial Services activities of the subsidiaries within the Supervisory Agency (HANFA), • Accounting and Dukat Group. the Zagreb Stock Exchange administrative policies and (ZSE), the Croatian News procedures within control Dukat holds 197 treasury Agency (HINA), as well as functions related to key risks shares, which make up the company website (www. • A double model of corporate 0.00657 percent of the share dukat.hr). Furthermore, the management comprising capital of the company. shareholders receive all the Management and additional information from the Supervisory Boards The Supervisory Board Shareholders Record Office member – workers’ kept by the company. The basis of the internal representative holds 800 control system of Dukat and shares, which makes up In November 2019, the the Group is the internal 0.02667 percent of the company also appointed the policy, which defines the company share capital. person in charge of investor basic principles, structure relations, which provided the and functions of the internal The managing directors and shareholders and investment control activities, which Supervisory Board members public with additional contributes to regular are appointed pursuant to the access to information that is corporate governance and positive legislation. significant for the adoption of the promotion of transparent investment decisions. business. The main features are All amendments of the Statute as follows: are adopted by the General On 31 December 2019, the • Set of accounting policies Assembly pursuant to the company has: related to the preparation positive legislation and the full • two Managing directors who of the Annual report text of the Statute is available run business operations in accordance with the on the company website, at and represent the company International Financial the business offices of Dukat severally and without Reporting Standards and the Commercial Court. limitations adopted in the EU and the • Supervisory Board Accounting Act The General Assembly acts in • Audit Committee • The internal audit of Dukat accordance with the applicable that supervises the overall Statutes of the company. All these bodies operate in activities of Dukat and accordance with the applicable the Group, with the aim of Shareholders realize the rights regulations and internal estimating the adequacy of guaranteed by applicable regulations of the company. established internal controls regulations, and have access system to all information relevant 45 LIST OF TABLES AND CHARTS Dukat Group in Croatia in numbers (2019) 4 Volume distribution per product categories 5 Plants, warehouses and platforms 5 Union members 9 Number of workplace injuries 10 Number of sick days 11 Number of paid leave days 11 Amount of financial aid to employees (HRK) 12 Volunteer blood donors 12 Type of employment 13 Age structure 14 Gender 14 Education 14 Composition of governance and management 15 Donated products by category (kg) 24 Donations by type of recipient (kg) 24 Donations by county (kg) 24 Donations by regions (kg) 24 Total investments in subsidizing primary milk production (HRK million) 25 Customer complaints per million items sold 27 Data on packaging put in circulation (t) 31 Total weight of packaging put in circulation (t) 31 Total power consumption (kWh) 32 Total steam consumption (t) Zagreb plant 33 Total gas consumption (m3) 33 Total water consumption (m ) 3 34 Index of production (l water/kg of processed milk) 35 Emissions into the air from fuel combustion process to obtain thermal energy at the Zagreb Plant 35 Emissions into the air from thermoelectric generator chimney and boiler chimneys 1 and 2 (Bjelovar Plant) 36 Non-hazardous waste at the Zagreb plant by category (t) 39 Zagreb plant – consumption of washing and disinfecting agents 39 Bjelovar plant consumption of chemicals in waste water treatment plant 40 46 Report Profile Reporting period: 2019 Date of the last report: March 2019 Reporting cycle: annual Date of publishing: April 2020 Publisher: Dukat Inc., Marijana Čavića 9, 10000 Zagreb, Croatia Design: Hand Studio d.o.o. Contact for Corporate Social Responsibility: Elena Wolsperger Dolezil, elena.wolsperger-dolezil@hr.lactalis.com Kristina Klarić Rubčić, kristina.klaric-rubcic@hr.lactalis.com www.dukat.hr 47
