Overview UN Global Compact: Communication on Progress 2019 This document is PwC’s Communication on Progress (COP) for the UN Global Compact (UNGC). It outlines our plans, progress and achievements aligned with the UNGC’s ten principles. As in previous years, this document highlights the relevant links to our existing approach to corporate reporting. The relevant information can be found in our ​201​9 ​Global Annual Review​, our ​global Corporate Responsibility (CR) website​ and ​individual firm websites​. To demonstrate our alignment with the principles we have provided links to examples of our policies, public commitments, and specific initiatives, including work with clients. The PwC brand is the brand under which the firms of PricewaterhouseCoopers International Limited (PwCIL) operate and provide professional services. Firms in our network have different priorities in relation to CR so our global CR strategy provides a common vision for leadership but allows for flexibility in the pace, prioritisation and localisation of activities. This document includes a number of case studies which highlight initiatives from firms that demonstrate how the principles are implemented. We recognise that measuring outcomes is a critical component of the UNGC and will continue to strive to find ways to enhance our reporting process. This document is not designed to be an exhaustive list of all the ways in which our firms have aligned to the principles. PwC 2 Human Rights and Labour Human Rights and Labour Principles Principle 1: B ​ usinesses should support and respect the protection of internationally proclaimed human rights; and Principle 2: m ​ ake sure that they are not complicit in human rights abuses. Principle 3:​ Businesses should uphold the freedom of association and the effective recognition of the right to collective bargaining; Principle 4: t​ he elimination of all forms of forced and compulsory labour; Principle 5: t​ he effective abolition of child labour; and Principle 6: t​ he elimination of discrimination in respect of employment and occupation. Key Area Human Rights PwC’s Global Approach As stated in our Global Code of Conduct, we respect and support fundamental human rights and we work to guard against complicity in human rights abuses. Our Global Code of Conduct and local employment policies capture the essence of our approach to human rights and to building a culture of respect and inclusion – by clearly setting out the way we expect our people to do business. The Global Human Rights ​Policy and Guidance establishes the principles by which all PwC firms, and all partners and staff, respect human rights throughout their business activities, and work to guard against complicity in human rights abuses, comply with applicable labour and employment laws, and draw on internationally recognised labour principles in how we do business. The Policy and Guidance build on the Global Code of Conduct, which sets out our commitment to respecting human rights, by providing more details on the requirements to which PwC firms must adhere. This policy forms part of the expectations set out in the Network Standards. PwC 3 The Human Rights Policy and related statement further supports the commitment to the Global Code of Conduct and outlines the principles and commitments by which PwC firms respect human rights throughout their business activities. It embodies our understanding of the significance of human rights for a global professional services network In addition, our values drive the way we behave with each other, our clients, and our communities. They are: act with integrity; make a difference; care; work together; and reimagine the possible. Global Policies and Initiatives ● PwC's Global Code of Conduct ● Global Human Rights Policy ● PwC's Core Values ● Ethics and compliance complaints and allegations reporting policies and processes ● Standards and internal quality control measures​ (​including data privacy​)​ ​– all Network firms must adhere to network standards and there are measures to monitor compliance. Firm Level Examples Local supplemental codes of conduct: Local human rights policies: ● Australia ● UK ● China and Hong Kong ● Australia ● The Netherlands ● Brazil ● UK ● China ● Germany ● Mexico ● South Africa PwC 4 Key Area Labour PwC’s Global Approach Child labour​: We will only employ workers who meet the applicable minimum legal age requirements and comply with all other applicable child labour laws. Forced labour: ​We will not use any involuntary labour of any kind, such as prison, bonded or forced labour. Health, safety and hygiene: ​Our employees work in an environment that is both safe and healthy, in line with local firm health and safety policies, and in compliance with applicable laws and regulations regarding working conditions. Freedom of association: ​We recognise that all of our people have the right to form and join organisations of their own choosing, subject to local laws and regulations, as long as this activity does not contravene the local firm’s external appointments policy, which seeks to ensure our independence, in line with the regulatory requirements of our business. Flexible Working and wellbeing: ​We recognise that​ ​people are most successful when they prioritise wellbeing and have the everyday flexibility they need to shape their experience and empower them to be their best both inside and outside of work. Several of our firms have flexible working policies and practices in place. We have launched a network-wide flexible working leadership commitment and a wellbeing program with accountability measures for success Development: ​The foundation of our leadership development experience is our global career progression framework, PwC Professional. This is a single set of expectations across our organisation that clearly identifies the attributes and behaviours our people need to solve important problems and realise new opportunities. Opportunities are at the heart of a career with us. Opportunities for our employees to grow as individuals, to build lasting relationships and make an impact in a place where people, quality and value mean everything. This framework is underpinned by national and international training programmes, on the job training, mentoring and shadowing programmes. They have been designed to help our people achieve their full potential. Enable our people to develop a digital mind-set​ -​ Our clients operate in a landscape that’s becoming more and more disrupted by digital technology. To help them convert this disruption into opportunity, it’s essential that we remain ahead of the digital curve. In 2019 we launched New world. New Skills. and ​over the next four years, we are committing US$3bn to upskilling. This will primarily be invested in training our people, and in technologies for supporting clients and communities. ​Our Digital Fitness solution will be one of the tools used to keep our people, clients and communities on top of the latest digital innovations. We also offer online learning tools and resources through a cloud-based innovation that delivers training on a wide range of topics to our over 276,000 people across the network. This platform enables all our people to customise their learning for both content and usage. PwC 5 Engaging with our people: ​To create the most value for their businesses and communities, firms in our network consult with their stakeholders and their own people to help decide business priorities. Global Policies and Initiatives Protecting our people ​For additional information on our approach to network security please see Appendix I. Wellbeing ​Creating a culture that supports our people to achieve their best selves across personal and professional dimensions. Providing tools, training, and resources on how to better manage self and team wellbeing across the four dimensions of energy (physical, emotional, mental, spiritual). ● PwC Global #bewellworkwell Habit bank ● PwC Annual Global Review 2019 ‘Creating a Positive workplace Development ● Our Leadership Development Experience ● New world. New Skills upskilling our people ● Measuring our people’s engagement and listening to their feedback – Global People Strategy ● Global careers website Firm Level Examples UK ​Corporate sustainability document download centre​ ● Health and safety policy ● Human rights policy ● Procurement policy ● Ireland ​Health & Safety accreditation Flexible Working ● US Flexibility Flexibility at PwC Begins with trust Flexibility at PwC DiversityInc Flexibility Placemat The power of our differences ● Malaysia Flex+ at PwC ● Australia All Roles Flex ● Ireland Benefits & Flexibility ● South Africa Expect More ● Canada Flexibility ● UK Everyday flexibility at PwC PwC 6 Wellbeing ● UK Green Light to Talk? ● Switzerland Be Well Work Well ● Malaysia ‘Be Well Work Well 2018 Launch ● ​US Discover Programme (milestone reward experience for new seniors, focusing on energy management) Digital Fitness ​ upskilling our people in skills that will be critical in the future, such as understanding AI, VR, data analytics, and building inclusive leadership skills. Digital Fitness App Key Area Diversity and Inclusion PwC’s Global Approach Diversity is a business priority for us and ​ties directly to our values. We’re committed to cultivating an environment where our people feel a sense of belonging. This means we can bring our whole selves to work, we can lead and grow through diverse experiences, and we can make a difference. Our global approach and strategy on Diversity and Inclusion has two consistent focus areas of Gender and Valuing Differences with a plus 1 which differs for each territory depending on their business / talent strategy or legislative requirements. This approach recognises, respects and enhances the strength of our diverse workforce & inclusive culture across our network. Our global priorities and focus areas include tracking progress through predictive analytics to arrive at targets and create accountability, gender proportionality in promotions and experienced hires, conducting pay equity reviews, inclusive recruitment efforts for experienced hiring, representation of women in leadership programs and succession planning, increasing the level of awareness and addressing biases through continued education. These focus areas support gender equality across all levels thereby building a healthy pyramid, enhancing women in leadership and creating an environment strengthened by our policies and initiatives. And leveraging that diversity to deliver the highest value for our people and our clients. We are a signatory to the UN Women’s Empowerment Principles ● As of April 2020, 101,459 of our people had made their HeForShe commitment. ● We contributed to the first-ever​ P​ roven Solutions report to HeForShe and were recognised at the UN Women “HeForShe” anniversary event for having almost 50% female representation ​at the global senior leadership level within the network. ​The report covered the proven practices we have employed to drive gender parity on the Global Leadership Team. ● To enhance awareness and insights on “Unconscious bias” and its impact on decision making, we created Outsmarting Human Minds (OHM). A research-based learning module to showcase the science of how human minds work and shape the decisions we make in the workplace and in life. It applies insights from psychological science to help us improve the decisions we make in life and at work PwC 7 The key highlights for FY18 from Diversity & Inclusion perspective are● To commemorate the 50th anniversary of the Stonewall uprising and World Pride New York, PwC hosted its first-ever global LGBT+ summit in New York. There we brought together 200 staff, firm leaders, both LGBT+ and allies from almost 30 countries, for two days of leadership development and networking. We concluded the event by marching in the World Pride Parade. ● In PwC’s annual Global People Survey we ask our people if they agree with the statement:, “I am satisfied with actions Territory Leadership has taken to build a diverse and inclusive work environment”. In FY19 68% agreed with this statement, up from 63% the prior year​. Global Policies and Initiatives ● Global Annual Review: Our people overview and statistics ● Global Diversity and Inclusion website ● Global LGBT+ inclusion website ● PwC is a founding member of the Partnership for Global LGBTI Equality, an official project of the World Economic Forum ● HeForShe PwC-UN Gender IQ Online Course​ ​offered as part of our learning and development activities. ● HeForShe: Our commitment to the UN’s HeForShe campaign HeForShe proven solutions report achieving parity at global leadership​:​ Our journey HeforShe-2019 Impact report ● UN Women’s Empowerment Principles​: We are a member of this communit​y ● Moving Women with Purpose: Publication ● Our Diversity Journey ● Winning the Fight for Female Talent​: Publication ● Global Chairman promotes IWD ● Time to talkWhat has to change for women at work publication ● PwC has entered into a collaboration with UNICEF that aims to help upskill millions of young people Firm Level Examples Brazil Diversity and inclusion stories PwC 8 South Africa Diversity and inclusion approach Australia Diversity and inclusion strategy “Where are all the women?” (Publicati​on​) Malaysia Global Diversity Week the Human Library Canada Diversity and inclusion approach Japan Diversity and inclusion approach The ​Netherlands Diversity and inclusion approach Singapore Diversity at PwC Singapore Enhancing board diversity disclosures in Singapore: Taking the next steps British Chamber of Commerce Singapore (BritCham) Embracing Diversity and Inclusion award 18th Annual Business Awards Switzerland Diversity and inclusion approach EQUAL-SALARY certification from the EQUAL-SALARY Foundation. In addition, EQUAL-SALARY certification is now a service offering​ from the Swiss firm’s People & Organisation team and is expanding to other PwC firms. US PwC US’ commitment to diversity Fortune Awards One of Fortune’s best companies for the 16th consecutive year 2020 AdAge Awards one of the best places to work in advertising and media in 2020. Fortune Awards #38 on Fortune's list of best workplaces for giving back 2018 Members of the CEO Action for Diversity Outsmarting Human Minds: PwC publication UK Diversity and inclusion open mind e-learning Diversity and inclusion gender pay gap audits and results Top 50 Employer for Women and Top 75 Employer for Race (both unranked). British LGBT Awards Employer of the Year and Stonewall Workplace Equality Index Top 20 Employer (ranked 19​th​) PwC 9 Our professionals across the network have received accolades and awards for their work in Diversity and Inclusion● The PwC UK Diversity and Wellbeing Leader was named an Officer of the Order of the British Empire on the Queen's 2018 New Year's Honours list. ● The PwC Australia Leader won the 2018 Australian Workplace Equality Index CEO of the Year award. ● The PwC US Assurance Leader was named one of 2018 Fortune Magazine’s Most Powerful Latinas in Business. ● In PwC Canada the CEO and Chief Inclusion officer was named as a 2018 Catalyst Canada Honours Champion. Examples of our work with clients which support UNGC’s principles PwC’s Global Approach In addition to the work we undertake in our own organisation, we also look to encourage our stakeholders including our clients to adopt best practice labour, human rights and diversity practices. This means we can go above and beyond the positive impact we can have through our own operations. Global Policies and Initiatives ● Helping our clients to manage their people Stimulating debate and sharing best practice on issues including human rights and international development ● PwC Human Rights Statement ● Our ​blogsthe people agenda ● International development ● Our Global Crisis Centre Firm Level Examples Support for humanitarian relief and disaster resilience – our firms contribute to humanitarian relief in many ways: ● Helping the Kenya government to transform reproductive health for poor mothers in rural areas. ● Teaming up with the UN to support HeForShe ● UNISDR​ – ​working with the UN and other key stakeholders to embed disaster risk management into business investment decisions ● Supporting girls education through the Girls Education Challenge ● Our Aspire to Lead programme​ brings gender equality content PwC 10 Environment Environment Principles Principle 7: B ​ usinesses should support a precautionary approach to environmental challenges. Principle 8:​ U​ ndertake initiatives to promote greater environmental responsibility. Principle 9:​ ​Encourage the development and diffusion of environmentally friendly technologies. Key Area Our strategy policies and programmes PwC’s Global Approach We are committed to understanding and reducing our environmental impact on the world starting with our own footprint through to working with our clients and suppliers, and advocating for change. Our global environment strategy is a key element of our broader corporate responsibility strategy. PwC firms are guided by the ​Network Environmental Statemen​t​ ​and are encouraged to align their environmental strategies with the global strategy, as well as take action on local issues. In 2019, 21 of our largest territories (the Strategy Council representing nearly 90% of our global revenue) plus a number of our PwC firms have signed up to our global environment ambition: drive efficiency, go 100% renewable, and offset air travel. Outlined below is an overview of our approach and progress: ● Driving efficiencies:​ The first step of our ambition is to d​rive efforts to reduce our absolute carbon impact. PwC firms are achieving this by choosing to house their offices in more efficient buildings, implementing energy efficiency measures, going circular and choosing more sustainable car fleets. ● Going 100% renewable:​ For the energy we do consume, we have committed to go renewable. Our aim is to do this by transitioning our largest firms first, with a slightly longer ramp-up for smaller offices. As part of this commitment we proudly joined RE100 a group of influential businesses committed to 100% renewable energy. PwC 11 ● Offsetting air travel emissions: ​While our priority is to reduce our absolute carbon impact, we have decided to purchase carbon offsets to mitigate the impact of emissions from air travel. Our carbon offset purchase is underpinned by a strict quality criteria and aims to drive multiple co-benefits beyond emissions reductions. Co-benefits refers to additional social, economic and environmental value created by these projects. Territories that are farther along on their sustainability journey are ​assessing their climate change risks​, investing in​ sustainable aviation​, adopting​ circular principles​, ​responsible technology​ and ​supply chain impacts​. Global Policies and Initiatives ● Global CR website ● Our network environment commitment ● Our network environmental statement ● Our network’s GHG footprint ● Public statement urging governments to take more ambitious action against​ ​climate change​ signed by our global ​chairman ● Driving efficiencies: ​While our network continues to grow, our per capita emissions have decreased by 8% between FY17 to FY19. ● Going 100% renewable: ​In FY19, 71% of electricity consumption from ​Strategy Council​ firms was from renewable sources (this is an increase from our ​FY19 Global Annual Review Social Impact results due to one territory purchasing after the release of the report). This is up from 55% in FY17. ● Offsetting air travel emissions: ​In FY19, the Strategy Council firms offset 100% of their air travel. The projects we are supporting, in collaboration with other organisations, have collectively impacted nearly over 4.6 million people, protected or restored 636,000 hectares of forest, generated 77,756 MWh of clean energy and created over 480 new full time jobs. Click​ here​ to find out more about the projects we are supporting. Firm Level Examples Environmental policies: ● Australia ● Canada ● China and Hong Kong ● UK PwC 12 Driving efficiencies ● PwC UK​ has more than halved their energy consumption over the last 10 years, and reduced their absolute operational emissions by 35% since 2007. ● In the US​ Almost two-thirds of office space is certified through the LEED​® green building program. In addition, the firm has reduced their energy consumption by 40% per employee through more efficient use of space. ● The Netherlands team have committed to be fully circular by 2030. Currently 40% of their operations is circular​. Going renewable: ​Canada, China, France, Germany, Mexico, Netherlands, Singapore, Spain, Sweden, Switzerland, US, UK, and US, purchased renewable energy in FY19. The stories behind our carbon offset projects: ● Rimba Raya Biodiversity Reserve Protecting tropical forests and endangered species. ● Kenya Cookstoves Tackling household air pollution and deforestation​. ● Seneca Meadows -Reducing GHG emissions from New York’s largest waste facility​. ● Reforesting the Mississippi River Valley​. PwC US purchases a substantial part of their carbon offset portfolio from the ​Reforesting the Mississippi River Valley Carbon project. Examples of our work with clients and partners who support the UNGC principles PwC’s Global Approach Another impact we can have is through supporting our clients to improve their environmental outcomes and working with all our stakeholders to find new innovative solutions to environmental challenges in our areas of expertise. A few areas we have focused on this year have been the Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs), climate change and the Paris agreement, sustainable cities and circular economy. We want our people to consider environmental opportunities in their work every day, and we support them with our global network of sustainability & climate change subject matter specialists. Global Policies and Initiatives ● Nature Risk Rising: Why the Crisis Engulfing Nature Matters for Business and the Economy​ ​(our collaboration with the WEF) ● How to Set Up Effective Climate Governance on Corporate Boards: Guiding principles and questions (Our collaboration with the WEF) ● Integrating natural capital in risk assessments: A step-by-step guide for banks​ ​(Natural Capital Finance Alliance and us PwC 13 ● Global states and regional annual disclosure: How 120 states and regions are stepping up their climate action​ ​(Published by CDP, with our contribution as knowledge partner) ● Innovation for the earth ● Harnessing the 4​th​ Industrial Revolution for Sustainable Emerging Cities​(with WEF) ● Harnessing artificial intelligence for the earth ​(with WEF) ● Building block(chain)s for a better planet​ (with WEF) ● Scaling 4IR for the Global Goals ● Our Low Carbon Economy​ Index ● Private equity responsible investment survey 2019 ● Taking action on SDG reporting ● Developing thought leadership and practical ways for our clients to respond to the SDGs ● SDG Challenge 2019 ● Circular business models ● Helping clients in the forestry, paper and packaging sector ● Transformation in energy, utilities and resources. ​Strategies to confront rising demand and climate threats. ● Supporting the Paris agreement Local Firm Examples ● Nature is too big to fail​ (PwC Switzerland and WWF Switzerland highlight that the financial risks associated with the loss of biodiversity will become increasingly more important in 2020) ● The road to circularity why a circular economy is becoming the new normal​ PwC Netherlands and PwC Germany outline why transformation to a circular economy is necessary. ● Our Planet: Our Business​ In 2019 we worked with WWF to shine a light on the ecological crisis which will impact all of our clients. ● How AI can enable a sustainable future​ (with Microsoft) ● Intelligent digital ● Building the largest solar farm in the southern hemisphere PwC 14 Anti-corruption Anti-corruption Principles Principle 10​: Businesses should work against corruption in all its forms, including extortion and bribery Key Area Anti-corruption overview PwC’s Global Approach Strategic partnerships ​– We work extensively with numerous international agencies and national governments​ (​ e.g. UN, OECD, World Bank, IMF, European Commission, the Commonwealth Secretariat, the World Economic Forum PACI, Transparency International, etc.) to: ● Build capacity of countries to detect and reduce corruption for example undertaking forensic audits and investigations, conduct training initiatives regarding anti-money laundering (AML), corruption and other key initiatives ● Enhance implementation of AML regulations, and procedures for the recovery of stolen assets ● Extend work on tax reform, illicit financial flows (IFFs), procurement reform, and preventing corrupt companies from winning public contracts. ● We strive to maintain the highest professional standards at PwC and have set expectations for consistent ethical behaviour by all PwC firms across our global network. In response to the very serious and concerning allegations that have been raised, we immediately initiated an investigation. We also took action to terminate any ongoing work for entities controlled by members of the dos Santos family​ ​and are working with our member firms to ensure adherence to the policies we have in place for taking on and maintaining all client relationships.s. Our Standards and internal quality control measures at territory and network level​– ● Compliance with and as appropriate voluntarily adopting national and international initiatives to prevent corruption ● Established network level standards, policies, guidance and procedures which require compliance by every PwC firm, including a Global Code of Conduct and the Global Tax Code of Conduct principles-based guidance to help our personnel ‘do the right thing’, as well as detailed policies and guidance supporting the code(s) ● Compliance with our Network Standard on anti-money laundering and anti-corruption, which require each PwC firm to appoint a partner responsible for its implementation and monitoring of performance against its requirements ● All professional staff required to undertake annual training in requirements, procedures and processes in key areas including ethics, anti-corruption and anti-money laundering PwC 15 ● ‘Know Your Client’ (KYC) processes in place to identify and verify clients including obligations to report suspect transactions where required in national legislation ● Annual territory and network monitoring and remediation of the implementation and effective execution of key compliance standards including the KYC and AML standards, and anti-corruption standards. ● All personnel sign a personal annual compliance confirmation across key compliance areas including: anti-corruption, anti-money laundering, ethics and codes of conduct. ● Network wide e-learn focused on anti-corruption and anti-money laundering. ● We have developed and rolled out policies, guidance and related training (network wide) regarding the International Ethics Standards Board for Accountants (IESBA) Non-compliance with Laws and Regulations standard (NOCLAR). Global Policies and Initiatives ● We are a strategic partner to the World Economic Forum (WEF)​ and our Chairman, Robert Moritz is active on the board of the Partnering Against Corruption Initiative (PACI) ● Global Code of Conduct ● Global Third Party Code of Conduct ● Global Tax Code of Conduct ● Governance and transparency in the PwC network ● Network Standards ● Ethics and compliance complaints and allegations reporting policies and processes Local Firm Examples ● UK quality and ethics scorecard ● Territory Transparency reports Transparency reporting US Our UK AML Centre of Excellence (Belfast) providing services to our firms & clients Examples of our work with clients and partners who support the UNGC principles PwC’s Global Approach We do extensive work with and for our clients to support anticorruption initiatives. Global Policies and Initiatives ● Governance, transparency and the audit committee ● PwC's Fraud Academy ● Food supply and integrity services PwC 16 ● Global Economic Crime Survey​ (biannual)one of the broadest and most comprehensive surveys we have conducted. With over 5,000 global respondents, it is focused on facts, figures, trends and regions, as well as on analysing how and where economic crime may be affecting organisations so they can address the issue from both a preventive and strategic perspective. ● Our ​Forensic Services Unit​: with more than 4,000 staff across the network, we advise on developing anti-corruption systems and controls for our clients. PwC 17 Appendix I – PwC Global Security The information below is accessible to all staff through internal systems. We consider the safety and wellbeing of our people to be paramount, and view security as an integral – and integrated – part of every facet of our Network’s business. Proactive risk analysis and security operations Amid a challenging environmentwith threats ranging from terrorism to climate change and environmental damage-any effort at safeguarding our people begins with identifying and assessing such threats even before they materialise. Consequently, our Global Security team work with both internal and external sources to keep a cautious eye on world events, and proactively works to develop the strategies and programmes-formally documented in our Network Standards-that can help our partners and staff steer clear of, or mitigate, the risks when they appear. A key example is travel security for our people. Global Security, and the other security professionals in our network of PwC firms, go above and beyond the basics of ‘duty of care’ by emphasising pre-travel advice; providing briefings; issuing travellers pre-emptive event notifications as necessary; tracking travel to enable real time contact with our people as needed; and working to ensure employees are aware of the 24/7 medical and security assistance that is available to them through our arrangements with leading providers for such services. Additionally, every traveller has access to both web-based travel security information and a mobile app that delivers information and services to their mobile devices, as well as online e-learning to help them be better prepared prior to business travel. Global Security devotes considerable resources to supporting our people working in higher risk locations, enabling them to meet their obligations to clients through the application of carefully considered security protocols and risk mitigation procedures. In addition to these operational, day-to-day activities, Global Security produces regular longer term assessments on key issues and trends, helping give our network leadership a holistic view of the global threat and risk environment. Incident management and business continuity Regardless of the emphasis on prevention, there will always be unforeseen events that require careful response and management. Global Security works with internal stakeholders to continuously develop incident management protocols and capabilities to enable the network to deal with a wide range of possible incidents. PwC firms have developed similar approaches, tailored to their individual circumstances. Additionally, Global Security supports the ongoing development of our Security Operation Centre, which provides 24/7 assistance to our business travellers as well as support to member firm’s incident management procedures. Furthermore, Member firms are stepping up efforts to further refine their existing business continuity plans in order to minimise the impact future incidents may have on operations. Integration Security works best when it is involved early and often in almost every aspect of the business, and security solutions are the most effective (and generally more cost effective) when developed in tandem with the full range of stakeholders to a given issue. In this regard, Global Security works closely with colleagues in functional areas across the network, as well as with client engagement teams. In addition, Global Security chairs our Security Group, consisting of the full-time security professionals across our network, to share best practices, leverage experience, and ensure consistency of approach to issues of PwC 18 risk and security. To better serve PwC firms across the network-in 157 countries Global Security continues to build a regional security architecture, including supporting a network of Territory Security Leads-a security contact within every PwC firm. By continuing to strive to have security professionals placed in key strategic areas, this allows them to be closer to the people they serve and do so with greater speed and efficiency. © 2020 PwC. All rights reserved. PwC refers to the PwC network and/or one or more of its member firms, each of which is a separate legal entity. Please see ​www.pwc.com/structure​ for further details. PwC 19
