01 IDEC Report 2020 IDEC Report 2020 02 Pioneer the new norm for a safer and As a step towards becoming a truly global company, the IDEC Group has adopted a new philosophy. “The IDEC Way” encompasses the following: sustainable world. Since our founding in 1945, IDEC has been engaged in development of HMI (Human-Machine Interface). Leveraging the core technologies created and enhanced through development of industrial switches and other control devices for machines, we want to make safer, more pleasant points of contact between humans and machines in manufacturing sites and daily life scenes. This is how we desire to contribute to society. To thus contribute to the functioning and wellbeing of society, based on the premise Pioneer the new norm for a safer and sustainable world. that at times humans make mistakes and machines break down, we are inspired to pursue and realize consistently high levels of safety and ANSHIN*, and protect humans even in unforeseen circumstances. To create the optimum environment for humans and machines. We are determined to continue providing innovation and value as we enter a new era, sustaining our 75-year ceaseless commitment stated above, as we expand it on a global scale and stay on course toward our 100th anniversary. See details on page 36 *ANSHIN: a sense of trust and assurance without any fear or stress 03 IDEC Report 2020 IDEC Report 2020 04 IDEC Group History Acquired APEM Group Taking up the challenge of global APEM products (Million yen) societal challenges; thinking of our Miniature switches and 60,000 A P E M ’s s w i t c h e s , p i l o t pilot lights LB Series lights, and joysticks further Slim control unit featuring expanded IDEC’s line-up. Safety-related devices stylish design and the 100th anniversary and beyond. Addition of interlock switches and enabling switches expanded IDEC’s line-up of industry’s shortest depth behind the panel. safety-related devices. Listed to the First Section of the Tokyo Stock Exchange Global financial crisis 40,000 Burst of Japanese bubble economy Renamed IDEC Programmable logic controller Micro-1 Ultra-miniature controller, Dot-com dedicated to the control of bubble burst small machines. Yellow relays Entered the control relay field. A product with optimal reliability and a long usable Miniature switches and life, it became one of IDEC’s Launched control major products. units conforming pilot lights to International Miniaturized control unit 20,000 Electrotechnical with superior operability Commission SB metallic switch box and safety, that became a A re v o l u t i o n a r y p ro d u c t long-selling product. equipped with a quick-make Established the first quick-break mechanism, that overseas base built the foundation of IDEC. Oil crisis IDEC’s Sales Trends and Major Product Timeline 0 1945 1950 1960 1970 1980 1990 2000 2010 2020 (Fiscal Year) Izumi Shokai was founded Supporting Japan’s manufacturing Contributing to automation and mechanization, Creating an “optimum environment Challenging global societal challenges in the postwar era as a comprehensive control device manufacturer for humans and machines” IDEC was founded in 1945 as Izumi Shokai Co., Ltd. and In response to the growing demand for measurement and Since 1990, more and more manufacturing sites have In its 60th anniversary year, 2005, the company changed was initially engaged in the sale of electric appliances, control technology, and propelled by rapid economic growth increased the need for humans and machines to coexist. its name to IDEC CORPORATION. In 2017, IDEC acquired including retail sales. in Japan, IDEC was transformed into a comprehensive Responding to the need for machines and equipment APEM Group, as part of its global business expansion. IDEC Recognizing the shortage of switch boxes, that were control device manufacturer. In tandem with the advance of to reflect consideration of safety and productivity, IDEC also strives to develop new businesses that contribute to essential for many machines, IDEC began developing automation and mechanization of factory equipment, IDEC developed a number of products, such as the industry’s first solving societal challenges. high-quality switch boxes. Being well received by expanded into the field of electronics and system products. interlock switches and enabling switches. In 2019, a new philosophy “The IDEC Way” was adopted, manufacturers, the switch boxes became IDEC’s Starting in 1970, IDEC established overseas manufacturing In 2000, IDEC installed a robot-control cellular production clearly stating IDEC’s commitment to sustainable growth long-selling products and helped support Japan’s and sales bases, pursuing corporate scale expansion and system that enabled multi-variety variable production at its by continuing innovation and facing the challenges of manufacturing in the postwar reconstruction period, responding to the trend for greater mass production. Global main Takino Factory, promoting automation and labor-saving becoming a truly global company. along with explosion protection devices, which were business expansion led to further business growth and to a in manufacturing sites. widely used in textile/chemical plants and petrochemical stock listing upgrade to the First Section of the Tokyo Stock complexes. Exchange in 1990. 05 IDEC Report 2020 IDEC Report 2020 06 Business Model and Value Creation Process Value Creation Process From its beginning, the IDEC Group has provided products and services to society by integrating with control and safety technology in products vital to society. Contributions to the resolution of societal challenges through our business activities include, in particular, (1) promotion of automation, labor-saving, and higher efficiency; (2) realization of safety and ANSHIN; and (3) reduction of environmental impact in manufacturing sites as well as people’s lives around the world. We aim to create an optimum environment for humans and machines, as stated in our Mission, and to help build a sustainable society. Human capital Intellectual capital Manufacturing capital Management Number of employees R&D expenses Capital expenditures capital (FY2020) (consolidated) INPUT 3,683 $ 21 million $ 25 million Societal challenges which are taking place in IDEC’s VALUE CHAIN OUTPUT OUTCOME business domains Mission To create Planning Development Manufacturing Sales Support the optimum Rising labor costs environment for Industrial Switches humans and machines. P17 Social value Aging society Core Competencies Related SDGs Promotion of automation, Safety Technology Human-Machine labor-saving, and higher High Quality Automation efficiency and Products Interface Industrial accidents Industrial Relays & Components High safety level attained High quality backed by Proposal of automation Proposal of optimal human-machine In Realization by using insights obtained technological capability. solutions that facilitate interface (HMI) solutions. P19 manufacturing of safety and over many years. labor saving. sites ANSHIN Global warming Reduction of environmental Philosophy behind value creation impact Automation & Sensing Accelerating growth in P02 ESG+Sa+Q P26 SDGs P21 Economic value medical needs Sales and Operating income margin Sales (Millions of U.S. dollars) Operating income margin (%) Stakeholder expectations and desires 10.2 9.1 Safety & Explosion Protection 8.2 8.1 7.3 P23 563 565 536 We identified five areas – Environment (E), Social (S), Through our business activities, we Sustainable growth Governance (G) plus the IDEC Group’s two core elements contribute to the 17 Sustainable 386 387 of Safety (Sa) and Quality (Q) – as the CSR focus areas, Development Goals (SDGs) and established the CSR Committee in April 2018, and we are the associated 169 targets, set by making continuous efforts in our CSR activities. the United Nations and intended to be achieved by the year 2030. New Business Investment efficiency P25 2016 2017 2018 2019 2020 (FY) Note: Amounts in U.S. dollars are calculated at the prevailing exchange rate as of March 31 in every fiscal year. Note: Exchange rate (1 U.S. dollar): FY2016 (¥112.69), FY2017 (¥112.20), FY2018 (¥106.27), FY2019 (¥111.01), FY2020 (¥108.83) 07 IDEC Report 2020 IDEC Report 2020 08 CEO Message Creating an optimum environment Our vision on sustainability: “ESG+Sa+Q” As part of our ongoing effort to realize sustainable growth, In FY2020 (April 2019 March 2020), we recorded consolidated for humans and machines in order to we are promoting initiatives that contribute to the United sales of $536 million (down 5.2% from the previous year) Nations’ Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs), making mainly due to the global deteriorating business environment. raise corporate value and contribute to sure our business activities will help achieve a better and more sustainable future. We joined the United Nations Global Negative impacts from a decline in sales of industrial switches and other major product groups resulted to record operating solving societal challenges. Compact in 2009 and started undertaking activities based on its Ten Principles. We also established a CSR Committee, in income of $43 million (down 16.2% from the previous year) and operating income margin of 8.1%. April 2018, focusing not only on the areas of Environment (E), Despite a challenging business climate in FY2020, we Social (S) and Governance (G), but also IDEC Group’s two accelerated measures to enhance profitability, including Toshi K. Funaki core elements – Safety (Sa) and Quality (Q). We are making reorganizing manufacturing bases in Japan and overseas. Chairman and Chief Executive Officer continuous efforts in our CSR activities, in particular those As part of initiatives to generate more synergies with APEM leveraging our safety-oriented DNA, which we have cherished Group, we consolidated the sales, marketing, and distribution since our founding. capabilities of IDEC and APEM in Greater China and Europe, In January 2018, IDEC became the first company in Japan to in order to accelerate the sales growth of both brands. In register with Vision Zero, a global campaign launched by the terms of product innovations, in FY2020, we launched a range International Social Security Association under the auspices of products with push-in terminal connectors. The push-in of the United Nations International Labour Organization. Vision terminals improve reliability and reduce maintenance work, Challenge and innovate Contribute to solving diverse societal Zero, spearheaded by top management, is described as providing added value during a time when many manufacturing as “One IDEC” to challenges and realizing an approach to pursue corporate safety, health, and wellbeing, sites are experiencing labor shortages. We plan to continue become a truly global a sustainable society including investment in the workforce. For many years, IDEC has expanding the push-in terminal option for other product lines company made efforts to ensure its engineers and system integrators as well. Our goal is to offer innovative platforms not only in acquire safety knowledge and skills. Our number of certified products, but also on the manufacturing floor by providing Safety Assessors and Robot Safety Assessors reached simple, safe, and smart wiring options across all product lines. approximately 530 in total as of April 2020. Enhance the Return to shareholders As part of our Vision Zero promotional activities, one of our wellbeing of our major factories, the Takino Factory in Hyogo Prefecture, Stable dividend payment and appropriate return of profit to employees became the first in the Japanese electrical industry to obtain shareholders are our main priority, along with the enhancement an occupational safety and health management system of financial position and operational base. We paid an annual ISO 45001 certification from the Japan Industrial Safety and dividend of $0.46 per share in FY2020. Health Association in March 2019. Our continual efforts to We are committed to emphasize return of profit to shareholders establish a safe, pleasant work environment also led to and deploy a flexible dividend policy, consistent with changes in the ISO 45001 acquisition by the Fukusaki Factory and the performance and the external environment. Amagasaki Factory in Hyogo prefecture in February 2020. Cash dividends per share and dividend payout ratio Our intent behind “The IDEC Way” Cash dividends per share (U.S. dollars)) Dividend payout ratio (%) IDEC is celebrating its 75th anniversary in November 2020. Our envisioned ideal, “Pioneer the new norm for a safer and 63.7 Since our founding in 1945, we have provided a wide range sustainable world”, incorporates our determination to become 52.5 49.6 of products and services, centered around control and safety a pioneer of tomorrow’s new standards by our role in helping 44.4 29.3 technology to our society. As we move forward, our continued shape the future of manufacturing and its new potential, and business expansion globally has come with a new set of to aim at realizing a safer, sustainable society that brings Business overview in FY2020 challenges. To strengthen our foundational global culture happiness and ANSHIN for all. FY2020 began with challenging business climates in Japan, 0.47 0.46 0.45 across IDEC Group companies and support sustainable Each and every IDEC Group employee is committed to “The Greater China, the Americas, and Europe mainly due to U.S.-China 0.32 0.36 growth as we approached our 100th anniversary, we evolved IDEC Way.” We encourage them to take on challenges and trade friction. In the fourth quarter, the COVID-19 pandemic our company philosophy into “The IDEC Way”. “The IDEC Way” is find new ways to innovate, for all group employees across the further impacted our customer base. comprised of three elements – Vision, Mission, and Core Values world to share the same values globally as one cohesive unit. Orders from our main customer industries – machine tools, – and is based on our most important founding philosophy We are dedicated to taking each step with passion and integrity semiconductors, robotics, automotive, etc. – declined due to “Management with respect for humanity”. towards achieving our corporate mission. sluggish demand and postponement in capital expenditures. 2016 2017 2018 2019 2020 (FY) Note: Amounts in U.S. dollars are calculated at the prevailing exchange rate as of March 31 in every fiscal year. Note: Exchange rate (1 U.S. dollar): FY2016 (¥112.69), FY2017 (¥112.20), FY2018 (¥106.27), FY2019 (¥111.01), FY2020 (¥108.83) 09 IDEC Report 2020 IDEC Report 2020 10 CEO Message Long-term targets Policies to implement in FY2021 Become a global leader in HMI (Human-Machine Interface). Strive to raise corporate value by helping solve societal challenges through our Become the world’s No.1 safety and ANSHIN* provider. business activities, achieving sustainable growth and positioning ourselves to be highly profitable. Promote new businesses that respond to societal challenges. Advance our corporate culture and aim at becoming “One IDEC” on a global basis. *ANSHIN: a sense of trust and assurance without any fear or stress Measures towards achieving long-term targets Measures to take in FY2021 F o r m a n y y e a r s , I D E C h a s p ro v i d e d v a r i o u s k i n d s o f Tokyo Sensor Co., Ltd., which has strength in providing a We are taking specific measures in line with our three basic We aim to become a company that pursues and realizes industrial components to factory automation (FA) and other variety of touch sensors, was also acquired in 2018 and was strategies: promotion of growth strategy; improvement in world-class safety and ANSHIN by accurately identifying manufacturing sites. In order to achieve our long-term targets absorbed and merged into IDEC in 2019. This is a part of profitability; and enhancement of management base. As market characteristics and customer needs and providing and sustainable growth, however, we also need to expand initiatives to enhance our product line-up that provides safety for promoting growth strategy, we aim to further expand optimal solutions. business domains. That is why we are aggressive in M&A and ANSHIN and to create new markets. business in safety and ANSHIN that conform to societal In addition to achieving more growth with a complete line-up activities and operational alliances as a means to innovate and IDEC SYSTEMS & CONTROLS CORPORATION, a fully-owned challenges. As one of the measures, we make customer of push-in style products, sales expansion of IoT solutions, become a truly global company. subsidiary of IDEC, is engaged in solar power generation application proposals for various types of safety-related and growth of our collaborative safety robot systems and In 2017, we acquired APEM Group, a French company with a systems and self-consumption solar power generation, devices, based on a next-generation safety philosophy other new businesses, we plan to review our manufacturing global sales network centered in Europe. This also expanded providing one-stop solutions related to energy management. “Collaborative Safety / Safety2.0”. and logistics system, shorten the time from order receipt to the IDEC Group’s business domain to on-vehicle equipment Another fully-owned subsidiary, IDEC FACTORY SOLUTIONS In 2019, the IDEC Group’s system that combines safety delivery, and conduct the selection and concentration of and special vehicles (construction vehicles, agricultural vehicles, CORPORATION, offers various systems that fulfill customer know-how, technology, and products was adopted by a businesses in order to improve profitability. etc.), in addition to the FA industry. We strive to further generate needs by combining collaborative robots that can work in the major general construction contractor in Japan. This system Concerning the enhancement of management base, we synergies with APEM, building the foundation to become the same manufacturing site with human, with no separation by a enabled the company to achieve both improved safety and actively promote workstyle innovation. We plan to start global leader in the Human-Machine Interface field. safety fence, with various components. higher productivity on construction sites. The system was adopting a global IT infrastructure in FY2021, enabling all Welcat Inc., which joined the IDEC Group in 2017, was In addition to enhancing our existing businesses, we intend to certified by the Safety2.0 Qualification and Registration IDEC Group companies to use the same tool and facilitating integrated to IDEC AUTO-ID SOLUTIONS CORPORATION, use control technology for expansion of new businesses, such System, created by the Institute of Global Safety Promotion, more active communication with each other. Moreover, we a fully-owned subsidiary of IDEC, in April 2020, another as environmental energy-related business and collaborative with the objective of promoting it from the perspective of will accelerate adoption of Robotic Process Automation example of expansion but in the automatic identification safety robot system business. This is how we contribute to preventing work-related and other accidents. (RPA) to further improve operating efficiency. device business targeted to various industries, including solving diverse societal challenges, with the aim of realizing a logistics and retailing. sustainable society. Present and future approaches to the basic strategy IDEC Group’s expansion of business domains Basic strategy What we achieved in FY2020 What we will do in FY2021 Promotion of growth strategy Launched push-in style products, sensors, Expand the line-up of push-in style products Launch new products which are linked to and safety-related devices Launch products that materialize Safety2.0 and growth potential Established a sales subsidiary in India make them known in the market Headquartered in France and globally engaged in the Expand new businesses Exchanged a sales agency contract in Japan APEM Group Grow sales of IoT solutions industrial switch business. (acquired by IDEC in 2017) Expand business by region and by industry with a leading autonomous mobile robots Non-FA Expand business in Asia Pacific (AMR) company Mobile Industrial Robots Establish strategic partnership by M&A, Accelerate sales of collaborative safety robot systems A/S (MiR) alliance, etc. The environmental energy-related IDEC business, including solar power SYSTEMS & CONTROLS generation system. Improvement in profitability Consolidate materials and products, and IDEC AUTO-ID Development, manufacturing, and sale reduce SKUs Reduced SKUs and improved productivity Optimize a global logistics network SOLUTIONS of automatic identification devices. Review the manufacturing system and Consolidated manufacturing/sales bases in Automate production (Welcat) (integrated Welcat Inc. in 2020) shorten the time from order receipt to delivery Japan and Greater China Review and raise efficiency in work process Accelerate cost reduction Established an assembly center in Japan Structurally reform unprofitable businesses Improve work productivity Factory IDEC FACTORY Design and entrusted services of Select and concentrate businesses automation SOLUTIONS systems using collaborative robots. Developed “The IDEC Way” Further disseminate “The IDEC Way” Development, manufacturing, and sale of Enhancement of management base Re-established and expanded the training Review the business strategy Tokyo Sensor various types of touch sensors. program Promote a HR management system reform, given the (absorbed and merged into IDEC in 2019) Clearly identify future direction Conducted an employee engagement survey results of the employee engagement survey, etc. Enhance personnel management system and identified issues Secure human resources needed in the management Promote workstyle innovation by digitalization Started establishing a flexible work system environment and enhance HRs development Facilitate active communication Deployed RPA Adopt a global IT infrastructure and raise efficiency Components Solutions 11 IDEC Report 2020 IDEC Report 2020 12 Regional Strategy Transforming to a truly Major eight The IDEC Group focuses on eight industry sectors where its long-cultivated factory automation (FA) knowledge and know-how can be used and growth potential is high. global company. industry sectors While we provide a wide range of solutions aimed at flexibly responding to societal challenges and customer needs, such as dissemination of IoT, advance in automation, and ensuring safety in manufacturing sites, a Americas focused approach to selected industry sectors by each region lies behind our expansion of global business. The IDEC Group possesses a development/manufacturing/ sales network that provides optimal components, solutions, and services to fulfill market needs, with an ultimate aim of Sales Ratio Automotive Machine Tools Semiconductor Special Vehicles attaining a solid position worldwide. U.S.A. (West Coast) U.S.A. (East Coast) 16 % Japan Japan Sales Ratio Food Machines Material Handling Elevators Robotics 48 Shanghai Taiwan % Hong Kong India Thailand Singapore Greater China Asia Pacific Japan Sales Ratio Manufacturing bases 6 Sales bases 28 Distributors 90 Employees 1,080 Sales ratio 48% 18 % Australia / New Zealand Business overview Sales trends (Millions of U.S. dollars) Sales of automation devices such as automatic identification devices were favorable but 249 265 265 258 Sweden 245 sales of industrial switches and other products declined in FY2020 due to a deteriorating U.K. Denmark market environment for major customer industries, including machine tools. Netherlands Belgium Germany We reorganized manufacturing base, made progress in adopting automation, and France raised operational efficiency. Ratio of overseas Italy 2016 2017 2018 2019 2020 (FY) employees EMEA Tunisia FY2011 FY2020 Product features TOPIC 57% 71% Sales Ratio The IDEC Group’s product mix in Japan is diverse with industrial switches representing the largest In May 2019, we opened a new Assembly Ratio of overseas sales 18 % sales portion, followed by safety & explosion protection devices, industrial components, automation devices, and new businesses. Center in which product assembly functions of various locations were consolidated. An assembly support system using RFID cards, wearable Customer industry features terminals, and tablets was introduced and FY2011 FY2020 The customer industry base is wide, with we intend to prevent shipment mistakes 36% 52% re l a t i v e l y h i g h e r s a l e s t o m a c h i n e t o o l s , and raise efficiency and productivity. robotics, semiconductors, and automotive. Note: Amounts in U.S. dollars are calculated at the prevailing exchange rate as of March 31 in every fiscal year. Note: Exchange rate (1 U.S. dollar): FY2016 (¥112.69), FY2017 (¥112.20), FY2018 (¥106.27), FY2019 (¥111.01), FY2020 (¥108.83) 13 IDEC Report 2020 IDEC Report 2020 14 Regional Strategy Americas Greater China Manufacturing base 1 Sales bases 4 Distributors 190 Employees 211 Sales ratio 16% Manufacturing bases 4 Sales bases 11 Distributors 140 Employees 1,114 Business overview Sales trends (Millions of U.S. dollars) Business overview Sales of automation devices increased in FY2020 but sales of industrial switches and 87 89 85 Sales of our mainstay industrial relays and other industrial components, and industrial switches, decreased in FY2020 industrial components, decreased. being affected by the U.S.-China trade friction and the COVID-19. 53 Business in the Americas was affected by the appreciation of the yen against the U.S. 49 In addition to the enhancement of a governance system in Greater China, we pushed forward to establish a sales system dollar but we promoted sales and marketing of automation devices and safety-related in Taiwan in order to expand system solution business. devices with a focus on oil and gas, and food machine industries. 2016 2017 2018 2019 2020 (FY) Product features TOPIC Product features TOPIC Industrial switches and industrial components We c o n s o l i d a t e d s a l e s c o m p a n i e s The main products we supply to the Americas are are the main business. We also focus on sales of IDEC and APEM in Shanghai and industrial components, our area of strength since IDEC and APEM intend expansion of safety-related devices which moved the office to the same we established a U.S. sales company, as well as to use each other’s sales demand is increasing. building as our development base, automation devices and industrial switches. channels and also develop IDEC ELECTRONICS TECHNOLOGY new channels for generating (SHANGHAI) CORPORATION. We intend synergies. The marketing Customer industry features to use strengths of both companies and Customer industry features function for automation Our strong industry segments are machine establish a new system as “One IDEC” in devices is being enhanced to tools, elevators, semiconductors, and Our main targets include the oil and gas, food order to expand business opportunities. further expand business. machines, and semiconductor industries. special vehicles. EMEA (Europe, Middle East, Africa) Asia Pacific Manufacturing bases 7 Sales bases 8 Distributors 110 Employees 1,076 Sales ratio 18% Manufacturing base 1 Sales bases 4 Distributors 50 Employees 202 Sales ratio 18%* * Including Greater China Business overview Sales trends (Millions of U.S. dollars) Business overview Sales trends* (Millions of U.S. dollars) 99 94 116 Sales of industrial switches of APEM were strong up to the first half of FY2020 but 94 Sales of industrial switches, safety-related devices, and industrial 112 100 weakened in Europe in the second half, due to the weakening business sentiment and the components decreased in FY2020. 71 76 impact of the stronger yen. We intend to establish a stronger base by expanding sales channels. Efforts have been made to generate synergies of APEM and IDEC. 17 13 As an example, APEM’s sales channels are used to expand sales of IDEC products in Europe. 2016 2017 2018 2019 2020 (FY) 2016 2017 2018 2019 2020 (FY) Product features TOPIC Product features TOPIC Sales of industrial switches and safety-related Our main business in Asia Pacific is industrial switches and A sales subsidiary was devices of IDEC increased thanks to use of industrial components. We also intend to promote sales established in India, where U s i n g I D E C ’s m a n u f a c t u r i n g APEM’s sales channels. of touch sensors (Tokyo sensor products) in order to offer s t e a d y, s t a b l e g ro w t h i s technology, APEM began introducing new automatic assembly machines greater safety and ANSHIN. anticipated. With a particular at a manufacturing base in Denmark focus on the automotive Customer industry features from 2019. In addition, we are raising Customer industry features industry, we w i l l propose Sales to special vehicles and other industries, p ro d u c t i v i t y a n d e ff i c i e n c y b y t h e We established a regional headquarters in Singapore to focus solutions using our various other than the FA industry, represent a large reorganization of APEM’s bases. more on the automotive industry and public spending-related p ro d u c t s for promoting portion. They are sold in a broader region, projects. We also established a sales subsidiary in India, business expansion. including France, the U.K., and Germany. aiming for business expansion in India’s growth market. Note: Amounts in U.S. dollars are calculated at the prevailing exchange rate as of March 31 in every fiscal year. Note: Exchange rate (1 U.S. dollar): FY2016 (¥112.69), FY2017 (¥112.20), FY2018 (¥106.27), FY2019 (¥111.01), FY2020 (¥108.83) 15 IDEC Report 2020 IDEC Report 2020 16 Our Products Our Products Industrial Switches Business P17 Providing optimal products and solutions that meet the needs of Industrial switches Emergency-stop switches Industrial switches Joysticks the times. Industrial Switches Business To respond to diverse and changing customer needs, IDEC provides a broad range of products and solutions centered on its control technology. Industrial Relays & Components Business P19 We are committed to supporting the future of manufacturing and daily life by continuously providing new value through the use of core technologies we have innovated over many years. Industrial relays Terminal blocks Circuit protectors Switching power supplies LED illumination units Industrial Relays & Components Business Automation Business P21 Sensing Business P21 FY2020 Sales ratio Programmable logic controllers Teaching pendants Operator interfaces Sensors Automation & Sensing Business New Business & Others $20 million / 4 % Systems Industrial Switches Safety & Explosion Protection Business P23 $27 million / 5% Business $251 million / 47 % Safety & Explosion Protection Business $61 million / 11 % Total $536 Safety & Explosion Protection Business Safety laser scanners Interlock switches Enabling switches Explosion protection operator interfaces Explosion protection control boxes Explosion protection network camera systems milliion Automation & Sensing Business New Business P25 $82 million / 15 % Industrial Relays & Components Business $95 million / 18 % * Names of product group have been changed since FY2020. Note: Amounts in U.S. dollars are calculated at the prevailing exchange rate as of Collaborative safety Environmental energy-related Next-generation March 31 2020. Note: Exchange rate (1 U.S. dollar): FY2020 (¥108.83) New Business robot systems business agricultural solutions 17 IDEC Report 2020 IDEC Report 2020 18 Our Business Main application venues Emergency-stop switches required to have high safety for Industrial Switches Business Stylish control panels for a variety of devices and special vehicles installation in manufacturing lines Creating an optimum environment for humans and machines as a leading company Business strategy of industrial switches. Leveraging control technologies developed and applied since its founding, the IDEC Group contributes to realizing a safer IDEC’s main products have a dominant market share in Japan and more ANSHIN society by providing innovative solutions worldwide, not only for the factory automation (FA) industry Since 1958 when we began sales of industrial switches, we have Pushbutton Emergencybut also in familiar daily-life situations. developed diverse product line-up and continuously carried out design switches stop switches 50% 70% With the aim of becoming the number one global company in industrial switches, the IDEC Group provides diverse reviews and quality improvement. Customers’ reactions to such efforts solutions that bring together humans and machines. We do this through dedicated pursuit of quality, durability, and safety have enabled us to acquire high market shares in Japan. in our products, and through offering a product line-up that boasts versatility in design and ease of use. Going forward, we will continue to develop products needed for the times, so as to differentiate ourselves from peers and enhance our Major products market share in Japan competitiveness. (As of February 29, 2020) Sales trends Business overview for FY2020 *Internal survey (Millions of U.S. dollars) Sales to major industries, including products Advancing as a global leader in industrial switches 265 267 such as machine tools and robotics, generally 251 decreased from the previous year. Sales in regions, In recent years, increased diversity of work sites, together with changes in the principally the Americas, Europe, and Asia Pacific, specific requirements of work by operators, have resulted in more stringent Sales ratio also decreased partly because changes in foreign demand for technologically-advanced methods of assuring a safe, simple, 47% exchange rates and the market environment led to and smart. Responding to this requirement, IDEC continues development 115 115 a slowdown in sales by APEM, which had recorded of products that enable greater safety. IDEC is also engaged in enhancing favorable sales up to the previous fiscal year. a line-up of products that feature a push-in connection style – a wiring method Products improved by use of the push-in connection style that requires less wiring, less space, and provides greater reliability. 2016 2017 2018 2019 2020 (FY) In 2017, APEM Group of France, a well-known company with high market Note: Amounts in U.S. dollars are calculated at the prevailing exchange rate as of March 31 in every fiscal year. shares in Europe, joined the IDEC Group, which has strength in Asia. Note: Exchange rate (1 U.S. dollar): FY2016 (¥112.69), FY2017 (¥112.20), FY2018 (¥106.27), FY2019 (¥111.01), FY2020 (¥108.83) This has led us to achieve a more optimal geographical portfolio: We use APEM’s broad-based sales network in Europe to expand sales of IDEC products, while strengthening APEM’s product line-up in order to enter TOPIC into new markets in the Americas and Japan. In addition, as APEM’s major sales markets differ from those of IDEC, the companies are able to Factory Material handling equipment, Special vehicles, On-vehicle equipment, automation-related Security, Elevators, Industrial switches incorporating the industry’s first complement each other in terms of respective products having market markets Defense/Aerospace etc. strengths and an established geographical presence. We therefore intend markets six-color LED bulb to create global synergies and promote business expansion. We have developed an LED bulb that can emit six different colors and have installed it in industrial switches and pilot lights. This was As a leading company in industrial switches, the IDEC Group is determined the first such instance in the industry. The LED bulb adopted in the Six different colors simply by change of the lens to create new products and solutions that respond to the needs of 22 HW/CW control unit displays any of six different colors simply society and innovate the HMI (Human-Machine Interface) environment for by change of the lens. Until now it was necessary to have six bulbs Major sales markets of IDEC and APEM improvement in productivity of customers. and lens for six colors. The new bulb enables reduction of operator work time needed for color change and inventory control. This is but one way whereby we contribute solutions to problems in manufacturing sites by our technology-rich product line-up. 19 IDEC Report 2020 IDEC Report 2020 20 Our Business Main application venues Products that enable enhanced space-saving Industrial Relays & Components Business Control panels for elevators, etc. LED illumination units inside of the equipment inside of the control panels Using a full line-up of products to help customers overcome challenges. Business strategy Industrial relays and components is a collective term for various electronic devices incorporated inside control panels and control boxes that are used in the operation and control of machinery and manufacturing lines. They are Trend in control panels in use in a wide variety of settings, such as manufacturing sites, elevator controls and other equipment control of Programmable We are promoting the push-in wire connections to replace traditional screw logic controllers systems in buildings, automated warehouses, industrial machinery, and semiconductor manufacturing equipment. terminal connections for diverse products. This is because the push-in style Circuit Responding to ever-growing needs for “smarter” facilities and equipment, space-savings, and quality stabilization, IDEC adds protectors works well and is a high importance for manufacturing operations that are Industrial new technologies to various devices installed inside control panels, thereby providing more-efficient, highly-convenient, hampered by a labor shortage. switches/ Pilot lights operator-friendly production environments, and assisting customers which finding solutions to various challenges. The push-in connection allows for various tasks to be executed efficiently, Emergency-stop switches while maintaining a certain quality level, in case of installing many types of panels or conducting their regular maintenance. The connection Sales trends Business overview for FY2020 style realizes significant reduction in man-hours needed for wiring and maintenance work and enables devices to be designed and made in Relay (Millions of U.S. dollars) Due to a decline in capital expenditures, being reduced sizes. The push-in connection style is already common in Europe, sockets 107 affected by the U.S.-China trade friction and and is now expected to be increasingly adopted in the U.S. and Japan. Switching power 101 103 supplies 95 Terminal blocks 95 the impact of the COVID-19 pandemic, sales of industrial relays, terminal blocks, and other Sales ratio p ro d u c t s d e c re a s e d i n J a p a n , A s i a P a c i f i c 18% including China, and the Americas. IDEC’s broad range of products compatible with the push-in connection and support services As new products of the push-in connection style, IDEC launched industrial relay sockets of the SJ/SU Series. We plan to further expand products using SJ/SU relay sockets Weidmüller’s DIN rail 2016 2017 2018 2019 2020 (FY) the connection style. terminal blocks In order to support adoption of products compatible with the push-in Note: Amounts in U.S. dollars are calculated at the prevailing exchange rate as of March 31 in every fiscal year. Note: Exchange rate (1 U.S. dollar): FY2016 (¥112.69), FY2017 (¥112.20), FY2018 (¥106.27), FY2019 (¥111.01), FY2020 (¥108.83) connection, we also provide sales, rental, and calibration of various machine tools needed for such adoption, such as automatic crimping machines that can crimp Ferrule terminals and wires with higher quality and in a shorter Weidmüller’s automatic TOPIC time than generally available using manual operation machines. crimping machines Strategic partnership with Weidmüller Interface GmbH & Co. KG In March 2019, IDEC entered into a strategic partnership with Weidmüller, a world Thoughts focused on the same goal leader in development, manufacturing, and sales of electrical connectivity devices and terminal blocks. IDEC acquired exclusive sales rights of Weidmüller’s DIN rail Since the late 1970s, IDEC has continued to instill and pursue “Save and Safe Products anyone can use with safety and security ANSHIN, terminal blocks in Japan and is advancing the strategic partnership in developing Safe”, as part of its corporate DNA. Along with the rapid advancement from a company pursuing various products that use advanced push-in technology as well as promoting other world-class safety in machine intelligence and demand for environmental durability and joint development through use of the partner’s technology. high reliability in recent years, we need to face societal challenges such Simple Products appreciated by all our customers for their ease of as Japan’s shortage of workers. To solve these issues, we have set as connection regardless of worker our goals “Safe, Simple & Smart = S 3 (S cube connect)”, with the aim experience of providing society with products and services that bring about greater innovation and lasting quality. Smart Products that make labor-saving and space-saving a reality 21 IDEC Report 2020 IDEC Report 2020 22 Our Business Main application venues Automation & Sensing Business Programmable logic controllers and operator interfaces that enable remote monitoring and operation Wearable terminals that improve worker efficiency Offering optimal solutions matching the era of IoT and Industry 4.0. Business strategy Along with a decline in Japan’s working population and permeation of IoT, we see an increase in need to support remote monitoring and operations, and an increase in demand for key devices that promote work efficiency and automation. We Enhancing the automatic identification devices business have a diverse product line-up precisely related to that need and demand. In 2017, IDEC acquired Welcat, Inc. as a wholly-owned subsidiary, a company IDEC solutions contribute to higher levels of automation and efficiency in manufacturing. These solutions include with outstanding technology in the field of automatic identification devices, automation devices, such as programmable logic controllers that control machinery, equipment, and assembly lines as such as code readers, and expanded the product line-up and sales channels. well as operator interfaces that create more comfortable operating environments; and sensing devices such as sensors Further in April 2020, we integrated Welcat, Inc., which has strength in that detect physical objects and changes in conditions, code readers and RFIDs with potential growth in demand for RFID, handy terminals and other wearable terminals, and in software traceability application. development, into IDEC AUTO-ID SOLUTIONS CORPORATION, which is noted for its strength in products for retail and logistics. The integration is expected to accelerate business expansion, using the combined strength of both companies. Sales trends Business overview for FY2020 (Millions of U.S. dollars) In Japan, sales of automatic identification devices 82 such as barcode readers for retail were robust 77 79 IDEC solutions that make IoT real due to an increase in demand ahead of the PCs, smartphones, 55 54 consumption tax rate hike in October 2019. We are enhancing optimal functions that are so important in our new all-connected Internet tablets, etc. Sales ratio In the meantime, sales of automation devices, such era, facilitating use of IoT for programmable logic controllers, operator 15% as programmable logic controllers and operator interfaces, and diverse sensors and other sensing interfaces, sensors, code readers, etc. This is another way our solutions contribute to solving diverse challenges that our customers face. devices decreased due to the deteriorating market Web-monitoring environment. Remote operation Mail alerts 2016 2017 2018 2019 2020 (FY) Concept of IDEC’s remote monitoring and operation system Remote monitoring equipment Note: Amounts in U.S. dollars are calculated at the prevailing exchange rate as of March 31 in every fiscal year. Note: Exchange rate (1 U.S. dollar): FY2016 (¥112.69), FY2017 (¥112.20), FY2018 (¥106.27), FY2019 (¥111.01), FY2020 (¥108.83) Store data Detect/measure data in need at the scene. TOPICS Transmit data Transmit data to a server over the Internet. Data detection/ Handy-type operator interface with improved ease of operation measurement equipment See the status of the site on a PC A new handy operator interface, HG1P, was launched in May 2019. While having a Display data or tablet in a remote location. surprisingly light-weight structure, the interface has a high-resolution 4.3-inch display and its ergonomics-based design makes the interface easy to use and frees operators for other productive work. The HG1P is well suited for use as a teaching pendant for industrial robots due to its indication Send e-mail Send an alert message in case of trouble. of ongoing actual operation and motion. It can also be used as a mobile monitor, replacing a conventional fixed control panel and leading to cutting the cost and space requirements of a Change the settings of the site from a control panel. Moreover, the HG1P is durable and well suited for diverse manufacturing sites: Handy-type operator interface Operate from a remote location. Parameters of sensors closer operation to the machine leads to more accuracy and stability of operation. HG1P remote location with IO-Link function can be changed. 23 IDEC Report 2020 IDEC Report 2020 24 Our Business Main application venues Enabling switches that ensure safety Safety laser scanners that can detect the presence Interlock switches that can detect whether Safety & Explosion Protection Business of production lines, etc. of humans and objects within an area doors or safety fence gates are opened or closed As a company that pursues and realizes world-class safety and ANSHIN*, IDEC Business strategy provides solutions that enhance safety and productivity. Focusing on becoming stronger in the safety and ANSHIN fields Since founded in 1945, we have focused on safe environments for humans in their interaction with machines, and to that end we have developed many kinds of safety-related devices and explosion protection devices that are dedicated to safety, Tokyo Sensor Co., Ltd., one of the major Japanese manufacturers of touch reliability, and ease of use. We have also provided solutions that help customers to enhance safety and productivity. sensors, joined the IDEC Group in 2018, which allowed us to include tape switches We have developed a next-generation safety philosophy,“Collaborative Safety / Safety2.0” aimed at coordinating safety between and bumper switches, used for collision detection of automatic guided vehicles humans and machines. This philosophy goes beyond dealing with keeping humans out of harm’s way. We also provide (AGVs) and other vehicles, broadening our product line-up, and improving our cooperative safety equipment applications that allow the machines to sense any danger for humans and better control the safety responsiveness to more diversified needs. In 2019 we executed an absorption-type environment. We also make efforts in promoting safety in other ways, such as to promoting standardize and doing consulting. of merger of Tokyo Sensor with the aim of raising efficiency by unified management *ANSHIN: a sense of trust and assurance without any fear or stress of R&D, manufacturing, and sales and by promoting global sales expansion. Tape switches Bumper switches Sales trends Business overview for FY2020 As a leading company in practicing “Collaborative Safety / Safety2.0” (Millions of U.S. dollars) Sales of interlock switches, safety laser scanners, Our definition of underlying concept of safety began with Safety0.0 that ensured 60 62 61 and other safety-related devices decreased primarily safety by attentiveness and judgment of humans. Subsequently, Safety1.0 focused in overseas markets due to a global decline in capital 47 Sales ratio on applying safety measures to machines and ensuring safety by separation and Human Robot 42 expenditures. 11% operation suspension of machines. More recently, a collaborative concept of humans Safety2.0 Sales of explosion protection devices also fell in and machines in realizing both safety and productivity, Safety2.0, is being defined. Collaborative Safety Japan. For pursuit and realization of the next-generation safety philosophy “Collaborative Safety / Safety2.0”, we are dedicated to development of products that help humans and machines work in a collaborative manner, with no separation by a barrier or 2016 2017 2018 2019 2020 (FY) safety fence, to improve both safety and productivity, by combining our safety Human Machine Human Machine Note: Amounts in U.S. dollars are calculated at the prevailing exchange rate as of March 31 in every fiscal year. Note: Exchange rate (1 U.S. dollar): FY2016 (¥112.69), FY2017 (¥112.20), FY2018 (¥106.27), FY2019 (¥111.01), FY2020 (¥108.83) technologies and knowhow with IoT and AI technologies. In 2019 we started using Safety0.0 Safety1.0 Safety by Human Safety by Isolation the Safety2.0 Qualification and Registration System, created by the Institute of Global Attention Safety Promotion, in optimal product development and solution proposals in the TOPIC Safety2.0 era. We are thus committed to helping realize a safer society. Explosion protection devices that contribute to realizing safer, ANSHIN manufacturing sites The industry’s first explosion protection mat switches that Becoming a company that pursues and realizes world-class safety For over 70 years, we have been dedicated to research and development of explosion merited Japan’s explosion protection certification and ANSHIN protection technology and have developed a wide variety of explosion protection devices that can be used at petroleum plants, chemical factories, and elsewhere, according to the “Collaborative Safety / Safety2.0” is a comprehensive approach that intends to Technology Human need of the times. improve safety and productivity from four aspects: technology development; In the sites where there is inflammable gas or liquid, ordinary control devices are not enough human resources development; management; and social rule-making. and explosion protection devices are indispensable for ensuring safety. In 2019 we began selling explosion protection mat switches that can detect intrusion and the presence of Through collaborative technology development with other companies, Establishing collaborative safety humans and objects. These switches, developed by integrating strengths and insights of the development of Robot Safety Assessors and other professionals on safety, IDEC Group, have acquired the industry’s first explosion protection certification awarded in Mat switches MSE Special safety barriers EB3C participation in the “Vision Zero” campaign to improve “Safety, Health, Japan. We will continue development of products that prevent industrial accidents in a broad (installed in high-danger sites) (installed in non-danger sites) Wellbeing” at work, and promotion of international standardization initiatives, Rule-making Management range of industries and contribute to the creation of safer, ANSHIN manufacturing sites. we are creating and globally expanding a new trend in safety and ANSHIN, overcoming barriers of different industries. 25 IDEC Report 2020 IDEC Report 2020 26 Our Business Corporate Social Responsibility (CSR) Activities Integrated with Management The IDEC Group positions our founding principle, “Management with respect for humanity”, as our most important base and are committed to maximizing the happiness of all stakeholders. In order to promote this, we are engaged in CSR activities that are based on “The IDEC Way”, the IDEC Group CSR New Business Charter, and the Ten Principles of the United Nations Global Compact. CSR activities are identified as one of our managerial priorities and the CSR management system has been established. Contributing to resolving societal challenges through a variety of solutions utilizing control technologies. CSR Promotion System CSR throughout the supply chain The IDEC Group’s new business segment is growing mainly by growth of two business lines: the collaborative safety robot system business led by IDEC FACTORY SOLUTIONS CORPORATION; and the environmental energy-related In April 2018 the IDEC Group established the CSR The IDEC Group promotes CSR procurement in business led by IDEC SYSTEMS & CONTROLS CORPORATION. Through these we are making group-wide efforts to Committee, chaired by the CEO, to fulfill its corporate cooperation with suppliers, with the aim of contributing to tackle societal challenges, such as a labor shortage for industrial sites and climate change. social responsibility in realizing a sustainable society. the sustainable development of society. Under the CSR Committee, “ESG+Sa+Q” five specialized At one of IDEC’s major factories in Suzhou, China, the committees – Environment, Social, Governance, plus suppliers exchange meeting has been held each year Sales trends Business overview for FY2020 two areas of our strengths, Safety and Quality – were since 2017 and a CSR Procurement Briefing was held in (Millions of U.S. dollars) established, each in charge of promoting a particular area 2019. We presented the importance of CSR procurement T h e e n v i ro n m e n t a l e n e r g y re l a t e d b u s i n e s s of CSR activities. Each specialized committee, chaired by throughout the supply chain, asking for suppliers’ 52 47 recorded a decline in sales from FY2019, but an executive officer, consists of individuals with expertise understanding and cooperation in the promotion of 26 achieved record-highs in operating income and and experience, and tackles measures according to their responsible procurement, according to the IDEC Group 24 Sales ratio operating income margin. 20 respective themes. CSR Procurement Guidelines. 4% Sales of the collaborative safety robot system business were robust, partly due to an increase in adoption of systems targeted at diverse The CSR Committee, meeting twice a year (April and October in FY2020), reviews and approves overall CSR activities and the initiatives of each specialized committee. companies, including medium-sized ones. These initiatives are disseminated to all employees via the 2016 2017 2018 2019 2020 (FY) CSR Leaders Meeting and the CSR Workshop Training. Note: Amounts in U.S. dollars are calculated at the prevailing exchange rate as of March 31 in every fiscal year. Note: Exchange rate (1 U.S. dollar): FY2016 (¥112.69), FY2017 (¥112.20), FY2018 (¥106.27), FY2019 (¥111.01), FY2020 (¥108.83) Chairperson: CEO CSR Committee members: Senior Executive Vice President, Committee Business Strategy Directors and Executive Officers CSR Procurement Briefing held in Suzhou, China (November 18, 2019) Collaborative safety robot system business Evolving from a base in safety-related devices and safety systems, which IDEC Group CSR Procurement Promotion Plan are among our strengths, we have created systems that combine various makers’ collaborative robots, vision sensors, artificial intelligence (AI), Drawing up of the IDEC Group CSR Procurement Guidelines and autonomous mobile robots (AMR), as well as diverse application packages, to satisfy customer needs. FY2019 CSR Procurement Briefing (Japan) Collaborative safety robot systems Operation of the collaborative Fact-finding survey questionnaire on CSR procurement safety robot website Environment Social Risk Safety Quality Management Contribution Management Promotion Management Environmental energy-related business Committee Committee Committee Committee Committee Visits to suppliers and checking status CSR Procurement Briefing (Suzhou in China) By leveraging our long-cultivated control technologies and environmental FY2020 Drawing up of the CSR audit plan technologies, we contribute to resolving globally-ongoing diverse societal challenges. Specific examples include self-consumption solar power CSR Leaders Meeting CSR Leaders (Departmental Managers) CSR auditing of suppliers generation and other renewable energy; supply of electric power as part Establishment of a supply chain that helps of business continuity plan (BCP) measures; next-generation agricultural Promote each employee’s FY2021 realize manufacturing which is competitive solutions; and store solutions that have integrated some of these and may even CSR Workplace Training understanding of CSR in the global community Renewable energy Next-generation encompass the entire supply chain from production to logistics and stores. agricultural solutions 27 IDEC Report 2020 IDEC Report 2020 28 ESG+Sa+Q No plastic bottle challenge Respect for human rights With the aim of reducing the negative impact of plastic The IDEC Group respects humanity and promotes diversity bottles on the global environment, including marine with no discrimination in workplaces by race, gender, contamination, IDEC’s head office and major offices in Japan nationality, religion, or disability. With the aim of enhancing comply with the following “No plastic bottle challenge” education on human rights, we began a training course measures. on human rights and harassment in 2019 as a means to promote understanding of harassment and LGBT. In France, APEM participated in the French Government’s “La France, une chance.” movement to support employment Stop the sale of plastic Encourage employees Offer beverages, other of people who have a bottled beverages and limit to bring their own than those in plastic hard time finding jobs. to sale of beverages to cans, thermos bottle or cup bottles, to visitors and APEM is involved in glass bottles, and cartons with beverages from at meetings. from vending machines on home. the movement, sharing company property. information with others Those engaged in the “La France, engaged. une chance.” activities at APEM Internal initiatives Health initiatives The IDEC Group makes environmental Based on the IDEC Group Based on our founding principle, conservation a top priority in all aspects Green Procurement Guidelines, “Management with respect for humanity”, Since keeping employees and their family members healthy of its business activities, thereby aiming we make efforts at preferential we continuously conduct activities that both physically and mentally is a vital part of the foundation to achieve sustainable growth. The procurement of materials, respond to societal challenges and build for the IDEC Group. We adopted the IDEC Group Health components and equipment with Declaration and are practicing health-oriented management. entire group promotes acquisition of a good relationship with society, with less environmental impact. In Besides annual medical checkups for employees, we offer ISO 14001, an international standard for the aim of realizing a safer and more stress checks and meetings addition, we promote preferential environmental management systems. purchasing of office supplies, sustainable world, bringing happiness with a health nurse (staying consumables, equipment, and ANSHIN for all. full-time at the head office) and fixtures which have less or a doctor, as part of our environmental impact, based on efforts to understand and help the Green Purchasing Procedure Meeting with a health nurse at the improve the health condition Rate of return to work after childcare leave Electricity usage (IDEC unconsolidated) Manual. (IDEC unconsolidated) IDEC Healthcare Center (head office) of our employees. Posters for encouraging the Electricity usage (thousand kwh) Number of employees who take childcare leave IDEC was certified as an Excellent Enterprise use of staircases are displayed Rate of return to work (%) Basic unit (kwh/million yen) of Health and Productivity Management on walls. Desktop stands for Organization 2020 by the Ministry of Economy, 274 encouraging energy-saving use of 100 100 100 100 Trade and Industry (METI) and Nippon Kenko 252 246 235 233 air conditioners are also displayed 83 Kaigi., a health program promotion organization. 14 in the office. 11,931 10,943 11,501 11,077 Top : A poster for encouraging use of staircase displayed near the elevator 10,187 10 Bottom: A desktop stand with the recommended temperature for heating in a meeting room 8 Life-work balance 5 4 In July and August 2019, we invited employees’ children Eco-friendly product development to the head office in Osaka, the Takino Factory in Hyogo 2016 2017 2018 2019 2020 (FY) 2016 2017 2018 2019 2020 (FY) Prefecture, and IDEC IZUMI SUZHOU CO., LTD. in China. We identify issues for reducing environmental impact Their visit to the workplace leads to a heightened sense from the stage of product development and planning. of unity with the company, families, and colleagues, and We h a v e o u r o w n s t a n d a rd s f o r e n v i ro n m e n t a l Rate of paid leave taken (IDEC unconsolidated) a more pleasant work environment for employees. We Recycled amount (IDEC unconsolidated) considerations, such as for improved energy-saving, Number of days of paid leave taken received the Toyo Keizai Award of the 2nd Platinum Career Recycled amount (ton) Basic unit (kg/million yen) resource-saving, space-saving, and longer product Rate of paid leave taken (%) Award. This award commends enterprises that promote * Paper, metals, plastics, etc. 82 life. Each product is evaluated according to the human resource development and strive to provide their 12.1 75 standards, and ranked as to the level of environmental 63 69 employees with opportunities to demonstrate their best 8.9 62 15.7 7.9 8.2 7.2 consideration. We have also 14.7 performance in a society with substantially changing 13.6 572 designed an environmental label as 12.3 12.2 employment and work style. 418 a symbol of eco-friendly products We intend to continue building 343 358 316 and services. This label is to be pleasant work environments displayed on our website and in and helping employees realize catalogs so that customers can a good life-work balance so easily identify the environmental Eco label that they can energetically 2016 2017 2018 2019 2020 (FY) friendliness of our products. 2016 2017 2018 2019 2020 (FY) work with ease of mind. Children’s visit day at the head office 29 IDEC Report 2020 IDEC Report 2020 30 ESG+Sa+Q Directors and Executive Officers Outside Directors’ Exchange session Directors Outside Directors’ Exchange session is held as an event for Outside Directors to communicate more with each other apart from the Board of Directors meetings, with the aim of deepening their understanding on managerial topics and themes and of exchanging opinions. In FY2020, we held an exchange session on the theme on global management and it was also attended by six Executive Officers. Toshi K. Funaki Mikio Funaki Takuji Yamamoto Hiroshi Kobayashi Chairman and CEO Senior Executive Vice President, Managing Director Outside Director COO Audit & Supervisory Committee Member Audit & Supervisory Committee Member Audit & Supervisory Committee Member Audit & Supervisory Committee Member Audit & Supervisory Committee Member Keijiro Fujita Masataka Kawahito Michiko Kanai Nobuo Hatta Yasuo Himeiwa The IDEC Group is promoting further Director Outside Director Outside Director Outside Director Newly-appointed Outside Director enhancement of its governance system Compliance to ensure management transparency and efficiency on behalf of its shareholders Given the establishment of “The IDEC Way”, we are Executive Officers reviewing our basic action guidelines for conducting our and other stakeholders. duties as the “IDEC Group Code of Conduct,” and are preparing them as global code of conduct. Ratio of Outside Directors (As of June 2020) We also include a compliance training session within the employees’ training program separately held and 4 Inside Ratio of 5 Outside organized in accordance with their length of service and Directors Outside Directors job responsibility/position. We thereby strive to nurture Directors consciousness of compliance so as to promote awareness 56% of employees during work. Moreover, we have a system including the IDEC Hotline, The Board of Directors consists of nine Directors: four Directors (including one Outside Director) and a contact for internal five Directors who also serve as Audit & Supervisory whistle-blowing, to detect Committee members (including four Outside and handle suspected Director). Appointment of many Outside Directors compliance violations early. helps ensure management transparency. Corporate Governance System Risk Management General Meeting of Shareholders Appointment/ Dismissal Appointment/ Dismissal Appointment/ Dismissal The Risk Management Committee has established a Board of Directors Audit & Supervisory risk map by assuming potential risks in operation and Committee Accounting estimating their impact and frequency of occurrence. Directors (excluding Audit & Directors (Audit & Auditors Supervisory Committee members) Supervisory Committee members) Each year, a target risk is selected among these potential Selection/ Accounting risks and the entire company, as well as each department, Supervision Auditing undertake measures to reduce the target risk. Execution of business Internal Major target risks Main countermeasures Top Management Meeting Auditing Measures to take in Identified persons in charge and an emergency 1 Koji Akamatsu 2 Toshihiro Fujita 3 Arnaud Mondi 4 Yasuharu Kawanaka Dept. case of earthquake and response system. Senior Executive Officer Senior Executive Officer Senior Executive Officer Senior Executive Officer CEO other disasters Set the standard for coming to and leaving the office. 7 Manufacturing & SCM Chief Technology Officer Marketing & Strategy Japan Sales & Greater China 5 8 9 11 Prevention of product6 10 Put in place QMS manuals and business forms. related accident 5 Masaki Tsuri 6 Yoshihiko Nishiyama 7 Shinichi Yoshimi 8 Atsushi Matsumoto CSR Committee Executive Officers’ Prevention of IT system 24-hour monitoring and system trouble response. 2 3 4 Executive Officer Executive Officer Executive Officer Executive Officer Meeting Various Committees trouble Planning of a cloud back-up system adopt. 1 Quality Assurance Corporate Business Planning Strategic Planning Research & Development & Administration Measures to prevent Conducted training sessions. Various Departments / Group Companies harassment Made known contacts for consultation. 9 Tomonori Nishiki 10 Hirotsugu Harada 11 Marc Enjalbert Conducted study meetings on relevant laws and Executive Officer Executive Officer Executive Officer Legal compliance Cooperation Instructions/Reporting Auditing regulations. Technology Development New Business Development APEM 31 IDEC Report 2020 IDEC Report 2020 32 ESG+Sa+Q Information disclosure on the website https://us.idec.com/idec-us/en/USD/corporate_social_responsibility The IDEC Group’s CSR information in detail is available at its website. Safety education Quality education Safety seminars are conducted for all employees, We encourage employees with the aim of developing staff who can promote the to take the Quality concept of safety and ANSHIN for the benefit of society. Management and Quality As safety evangelists, employees with safety-related C o n t ro l E x a m i n a t i o n assignments serve as lecturers and explain the latest (QM/QC Examination) trends, including to raise their knowledge “Collaborative Safety and awareness of quality. The circle from China made concerted / Safety2.0” topics, in I n a d d i t i o n , q u a l i t y efforts to develop a measure for more stable operation and won prizes for the addition to the IDEC management training is second year in a row. Group’s history and provided continuously. thoughts on safety In order to apply what they learned in their daily work, and safety products. Safety seminar employees can join a local QC Circle, a voluntary improvement activity group, which makes proposals Development of certified safety assessors and efforts for quality improvement and work efficiency enhancement. In the Fifth QC Circle Presentation Conference The IDEC Group has encouraged employees to acquire in November 2019, 11 circles from Japan, China, Taiwan, and Safety Assessor Certification since its system was Thailand presented their activities. The IDEC Group aims to become the “Excellence in quality is the core value founded, as part of efforts to create safer manufacturing number one company in the world that environments and provide safety consulting services for of our product” is a basic policy of pursues and realizes world-class safety the IDEC Group. We have steadfastly Global Quality Conference customers, based on international safety standards. As and ANSHIN by seeking to achieve a result, IDEC is Japan’s top company in the number adhered to this policy while engaged in Since 2017 an annual global quality conference has higher-levels of safety in all of its activities of employees who possess Safety Lead Assessor development, manufacturing, sales and been held: in China in 2017, in Taiwan in 2018, and in for the creation of a safer, more pleasant Certification, the highest level in this certification. We also service provision, so as to deliver secure, Thailand in 2019. The objective is to globally promote environment in global society. encourage employees to acquire Robot Safety Assessor safe products and services to customers. consciousness on quality, encourage cooperation among Certification that covers basic safety knowledge of the *ANSHIN: a sense of trust and assurance without any fear or stress manufacturing bases, and improve quality management robot area (newly established in 2018) and to focus on systems. Employees engaged in quality management in strengthening the human resources in the robot safety area. various countries gather to present their quality-related * The Safety Assessor Certification System was developed by the Nippon Number of employees holding QM/QC activities, have a discussion, hold a group workshop on Number of employees holding Safety Officer/ Electric Control Equipment Industries Association (NECA) and is implemented Examination Certificates (FY2016-2020) Safety Assessor/Safety Basic Assessor by the Japan Certification Corporation, under the standards and accreditation related matters, and share their issues and know-how. program of the Ministry of Economy, Trade and Industry (METI). The Number of employees holding QM/QC Examination Certificates Certificates (As of April 2020) certification aims to develop globally-competent safety engineers and 411 managers for machinery, and control and explosion protection device. Up 49 614 646 from April 2019 542 555 Publication of “Collaborative Safety / Safety2.0” 493 guidebook Number of employees certified as Robot Safety Assessor (As of April 2020) We have published a guidebook to introduce the latest trend Third IDEC Global Quality Conference, held in in “Collaborative Safety / Safety2.0” – a concept to achieve 118 Up 22 from April 2019 safety and productivity through the collaboration of humans 2016 2017 2018 2019 2020 (FY) Thailand (December 12-13, 2019) and machines – as well as the Acquisition of ISO 9001 certification Cumulative numbers of safety seminars and initiatives of the IDEC Group. Number of employees holding QM/QC explosion protection seminars, and of attendees As a company that pursues The IDEC Group has established and Examination Certificates (As of November 2019) (IDEC unconsolidated) and realizes world-class safety implemented a quality management and ANSHIN, we are engaged system to provide products and services 646 Cumulative number of seminars held Cumulative number of attendees in safety awareness activities Up 32 that meet the quality requirements on “Collaborative Safety / from November 2018 of customers and markets, and has 40,099 38,254 Safety2.0” as an innovative The guidebook is utilized for awareness on collaborative safety obtained ISO 9001 certification, the 37,115 35,245 safety concept. in and outside the company Grade 1 1 Grade Pre-1 7 I n t e r n a t i o n a l S t a n d a rd f o r Q u a l i t y 34,195 Management System. 1,570 1,624 1,733 Grade 4 148 Grade 2 64 1,421 1,484 Acquisition of ISO 45001 certification IDEC Group companies with ISO 9001 certificate IDEC’s three factories in Takino, Fukusaki, and Amagasaki, in Hyogo Prefecture have obtained ISO 45001, an international 646 employees IDEC CORPORATION IDEC FACTORY SOLUTIONS CORPORATION IDEC ASIA (THAILAND) CO., LTD. APEM Components Ltd. MEC Aps APEM Inc. standard for occupational health and safety management IDEC TAIWAN CORPORATION SACEMA system. The Tatsuno Distribution Center aims at obtaining Grade 3 426 IDEC IZUMI SUZHOU CO., LTD. SAMELEC 2016 2017 2018 2019 2020 (FY) ISO 45001 in FY2021. APEM SAS APEM Wujin Electronic Co., Ltd. 33 IDEC Report 2020 IDEC Report 2020 34 Financial Data / Non-financial Data Financial Data Consolidated Non-financial Data IDEC unconsolidated Net income attributable to Net sales Operating income shareholders of the parent company CO2 emissions Waste Water consumption 536 million 43 million 28 million 4,905t-CO 301t 21,167m Y-O-Y Y-O-Y Y-O-Y Down Up Up $ -5.2% $ -16.2% $ -17.1% 2 246t-CO 2 74t 3 2,033m 3 Net sales (LS) Operating income (LS) Net income (LS) EPS (RS) CO2 emissions (LS) Waste (LS) Water consumption (LS) Ratio of overseas sales (RS) Operating income margin (RS) Basic unit of CO2 emissions (RS) Basic unit of waste (RS) Basic unit of water consumption (RS) (Millions of U.S. dollars) (%) (Millions of U.S. dollars) (%) (Millions of U.S. dollars) (U.S. dollars) (t-CO2) (kg-CO2/million yen) (ton) (kg/million yen) (m3) (m3/million yen) 750 60 90 12 90 1.8 10,000 160 400 8.0 25,000 1.0 53.2 1.60 143 6.88 52.9 52.0 10.2 131 133 21,167 9.1 20,000 19,134 0.8 7,500 120 300 6.0 8.2 8.1 109 112 17,351 500 563 565 40 60 58 8 60 1.2 6,226 6,193 4.96 301 15,518 15,348 36.6 35.7 536 7.3 52 1.01 5,709 4.80 15,000 0.6 50 5,151 43 0.87 5,000 4,905 80 200 231 226 4.0 386 387 0.72 3.35 10,000 0.48 0.4 32 33 250 20 30 28 4 30 0.50 28 0.6 2.33 145 0.37 0.41 2,500 40 100 2.0 0.36 0.35 101 5,000 0.2 22 15 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 2016 2017 2018 2019 2020 (FY) 2016 2017 2018 2019 2020 (FY) 2016 2017 2018 2019 2020 (FY) 2016 2017 2018 2019 2020 (FY) 2016 2017 2018 2019 2020 (FY) 2016 2017 2018 2019 2020 (FY) Sales of various products decreased IDEC strived to enhance profitability Gains from sale of investment securities In addition to participating in Japan’s IDEC modified moulds to enable product IDEC stores rainwater to sprinkle water in FY2020 due to the U.S.-China trade by reorganizing manufacturing bases and loss from subsidiary reorganization Cool Biz (casual dressing) campaign, manufacturing with less waste. We also in the courtyard and roof garden of friction and other reasons. Partly due and reviewing profitability of products and from office relocation were recorded re c o m m e n d e d u s e o f s t a i rc a s e s , reduced defect ratios and hence material the head office, conserving water by to the appreciation of the yen, the but operating income margin declined in FY2020, resulting in a decrease in net replacement to LED lighting, and waste loss. However, due to China’s doing this. In FY2020, the total used ratio of overseas sales declined from to 8.1% in FY2020 partly due to a income from FY2019. encouragement to turn lights off when waste import regulations, the total amount increased from FY2019 due to FY2019 to 52.0%. drop in sales of industrial switches and not needed, IDEC established four amount of waste increased in FY2020. the opening of the Kiba plant and the other main products. solar power stations in the Kansai Assembly Center. region for use of natural energy. Employment ratio and number of Ratio and number of Frequency rate of ROE Capital expenditures Equity ratio people with disabilities female managers industrial accidents 6.8% 25 million 49.1% 2.05% 3.54% 0.00% Y-O-Y Y-O-Y Y-O-Y Up Down Down -1.4pt $ -33.9% -2.0pt 0.13% 0.98% 0.44% ROE Capital expenditures Total assets (LS) Equity ratio (RS) Employees with disabilities (LS) Female managers (LS) Frequency rate of industrial accidents Depreciation and amortization Ratio of employees with disabilities (RS) Ratio of female managers to all managers (RS) R&D expenses (%) (Millions of U.S. dollars) (Millions of U.S. dollars) (%) (persons) (%) (persons) (%) (%) 15 50 1,800 75 50 2.5 15 5.0 5.0 13.5 64.8 4.52 2.05 40 40 1.91 1.92 2.0 12 4.0 4.0 10 37 1,200 49.2 51.1 49.1 1.70 3.54 50 3.13 30 30 1.46 1.5 9 9 3.0 3.0 8.2 28 39.0 7.5 6.8 24 25 861 24 24 26 21 19 23 21 21 21 802 800 7 5.3 20 20 19 20 20 1.0 6 6 2.0 2.0 5 600 762 25 17 1.69 1313 438 10 10 10 0.5 3 1.0 1.0 0.56 3 0.44 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0.00 0.00 0.00 0.00 1 2016 2017 2018 2019 2020 (FY) 2016 2017 2018 2019 2020 (FY) 2016 2017 2018 2019 2020 (FY) 2016 2017 2018 2019 2020 (FY) 2016 2017 2018 2019 2020 (FY) 2016 2017 2018 2019 2020 (FY) ROE declined from FY2019 to 6.8% Capital expenditures increased in FY2019 After dropping to less than 40% in IDEC hosts company visits and briefings IDEC adopted an action plan for promoting IDEC encourages its manufacturing mainly due to a decline in net income due to reorganization of manufacturing FY2017 due to acquisition of APEM for people with disabilities. IDEC also holds women’s empowerment, affirmatively employees to write “notice reports” caused by the impact of a harsh bases in Japan and overseas but returned Group, the equity ratio has returned to trainings for employees of departments selected women as next-generation concerning occupational health and safety business environment. to the normal level in FY2020. around 50% since FY2018. where people with disabilities are to be executive candidates, and carried out environment, and responds to opinions assigned, so as to facilitate the people development programs for them. The raised among them. Emergency evacuation with disabilities to smoothly fit in at their target is to reach 10% as the ratio of guidelines and safety policy and manuals assigned workplaces. The Job Coach female managers to all managers by for foreign technical interns are displayed Note: Amounts in U.S. dollars are calculated at the prevailing exchange rate as of March 31 in every fiscal year. Support Project of the Ministry of Health, FY2023. and readily available in their mother Note: Exchange rate (1 U.S. dollar): FY2016 (¥112.69), FY2017 (¥112.20), FY2018 (¥106.27), FY2019 (¥111.01), FY2020 (¥108.83) Labour and Welfare is also utilized. languages at manufacturing bases. 35 IDEC Report 2020 IDEC Report 2020 36 Company Overview Corporate Data Organization Chart (As of April 2020) Corporate Symbol Corporate Name IDEC CORPORATION General Meeting of Shareholders Established March 26, 1947 Audit & Supervisory Committee The Message In The New Corporate Logo Capital Stock ¥10,056,605,173 No. of Employees 3,683 (Consolidated basis as of March 31, 2020) The IDEC logo symbolizes: 1) Connection among people in various Excluding contract and temporary employees Board of Directors settings, support, and innovation, and 2) Business expansion, future Stock Listing First Section, Tokyo Stock Exchange Top Management Meeting growth and being a leader in all things. 2-6-64, Nishi-Miyahara, Yodogawa-ku, The blank white letter “I” adjacent to the special IDEC red “I” symbolizes Head Office Osaka 532-0004 Japan CEO Internal Auditing Department connections among people: coworkers, business associates, and the rest Phone: +81-6-6398-2500 (Main number) of society. The white and red relationship also symbolizes behind-the-scenes 2-15-1 Konan, Minato-ku, Tokyo 108-6014 Japan Tokyo Head Office Phone: +81-3-5782-7690 (Main number) support and innovation. Strategic Planning Department The color gray on the left conveys new opportunities, value creation, Factories Amagasaki, Fukusaki, Takino, Kiba Accounting Department business expansion, progress, and IDEC always going one step ahead of Sendai, Takasaki, Omiya, Tsuchiura, Tokyo, Tama, General Affairs Department the competition through collaborations and partnerships. Yokohama, Nagano, Niigata, Kanazawa, Sales Branches Human Resources Department Hamamatsu, Nagoya, Kyoto, Osaka, Okayama, Hiroshima, Shikoku, Fukuoka CSR Department Distribution Center Tatsuno IT Center The Corporate Color Quality Assurance Department The IDEC red expresses dynamic action, energy, passion, and speed. Marketing & Strategy HQ Products Strategy HQ The Corporate Tagline Japan Sales HQ “Think Automation and beyond…” We are creating the future of manufacturing. R&D Strategy HQ We do not believe that advancement in automation is merely advancement Head Office Tokyo Head Office in automation technology. The evolution of automation encompasses the Research & Development HQ evolution of people-friendly technology and other elements, such as safety features, ease of operation, reliability, and environmental considerations, Technology Development Division which add value to the existing automation technology. By advancing all of Product Development Division these elements, we are constantly expanding the possibilities of automation into a new dimension. Manufacturing & SCM HQ New Business Development Division Amagasaki Factory Takino Factory Core Values Shares of the Company (As of March 31, 2020) Major Shareholders (Top 10) (As of March 31, 2020) Number of shares Holdings Number of shares authorized 150,000,000 Shareholders (Thousands of shares) (%) In Harmony with our co-workers, our customers and society. Number of shares issued 33,224,485 Japan Trustee Services Bank, Ltd. 4,666 14.92 Number of shareholders 8,890 JP MORGAN CHASE BANK 3,168 10.13 The Master Trust Bank of Japan, Ltd. 2,352 7.52 Joy in fulfilling our mission. Distribution of Shareholders (As of March 31, 2020) STATE STREET BANK AND TRUST COMPANY 1,680 5.37 Funaki Kosan Ltd. 1,041 3.33 Treasury stock 1,940 thousand shares THE BANK OF NEW YORK MELLON Take on new challenges and embrace change. Financial institutions 673 2.15 (5.8%) (INTERNATIONAL) LIMITED 9,059 thousand shares (27.3%) Keijiro Fujita 651 2.08 Individuals and others 11,281 thousand shares TRUST & CUSTODY SERVICES BANK, LTD. 491 1.57 Exhibit honesty, fairness and respect at all times. (33.9%) Foreign corporations BBH FOR GLOBAL X ROBOTICS AND 8,790 thousand shares 479 1.53 Securities companies ARTIFICIAL INTELLIGENCE ETF (26.5%) 159 thousand shares DATALOGIC S.P.A 477 1.53 (0.5%) Other corporations Be the person everyone can count on. 1,993 thousand shares (6.0%) Note: The description of major shareholders above conforms to the content disclosed in the Annual Securities Report.
