UN Global Compact: Communication on Progress Content Overview Agility’s COP includes the following components: 1. CEO statement of continued support 2. This content overview 3. 2019 Sustainability Report: Values into Action 4. 2020 Sustainability Data Disclosure In addition to the above, publicly-available publications,​ ​Agility’s sustainability website​ contains updated information on our sustainability programs, including highlights from the reports above, as well as information on 2019 and 2020 projects reported after the publication of the above documents, including: ● community investments, including COVID-19 response projects ● country-level disclosure of human rights program implementation, including voluntary 3​rd party audits ● green operations projects ● green supply chain projects To understand the full scope of Agility’s sustainability work and efforts to achieve the SDGs, it is important to review the entire 2019 Sustainability Report. In specific response to the requirements for the CoP, the following overview includes the components for the G ​ C Active level​ of CoP reporting, and where to find them within this COP. Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs) supported by Agility #1 – End Poverty #4 – Quality Education #5 – Achieve gender equality and empower all women and girls #7 – Ensure access to affordable, reliable, sustainable and modern energy for all #8 – Promote sustainable, inclusive and sustainable economic growth, full and productive employment and decent work for all #9 – Build resilient infrastructure, promote inclusive and sustainable industrialization and foster innovation #13 – Take urgent action to combat climate change and its impacts An explanation of how our programs support these SDGs is available on p. 10 of our 2019 Sustainability Report, as well as the​ S​ DGs page of our website​. P.O. Box 25418, Safat 13115 Kuwait Tel +965 1809 222, Fax +965 2467 9617 www.agility.com Opportunities and Responsibilities that these SDGs represent to our business, and our company’s priorities Agility conducts a materiality assessment to determine the opportunities and responsibilities that are material for our business. An overview of this assessment is available on pp. 10-11 of our 2019 Sustainability Report, and in greater detail in the Material Risks and Opportunities Index on pp. 62-67. Agility’s goals and targets to achieve the SDGs This section provides an overview of our publicly stated goals, some information on how we measure performance and our progress, as well as the expected outcomes. In addition to these goals and performance metrics, Agility tracks a range of sustainability indicators according to the GRI G4 disclosure standards (please see the 2019 Sustainability Report GRI Index). 1. Uphold a high standard for respect of human rights in all of our operations, including voluntarily conducting 3rd party social audits in 100% of full-service operations in emerging markets (Goal #9) Since 2008, Agility has been building an industry-leading fair labor program, driven by the highest leadership of our organization. Since 2018, we have conducted a full exercise to assess human rights risk in all of our operations based on the external business and regulatory climate, the scale of our operations, and the engagement of the country in our Fair Labor program. In 2018 and 2019, our ten largest full-service operations in Asia and the Pacific underwent voluntary 3rd party SMETA audits. Worldwide, ninety percent of our full-service operations in emerging markets have undergone a 3​rd party social audit in the past 2 years. Additionally, we have developed a Human Rights Declaration for Manpower Providers, which we aim to include in all of our contracts with labor providers globally by 2025. See the​ h ​ uman rights page​ of sustainability.agility.com for more progress measures. Expected Outcomes:​ Agility aims to set a high-standard for human rights, particularly in markets where large populations of foreign migrant workers are vulnerable to human rights abuses. First and foremost, we aim for all of our employees to be protected from these abuses, but we also seek to influence others in the logistics and warehousing industry as a whole by demonstrating how to collaborate with suppliers to protect human rights. 2. Contribute to the e ​ ducation​ of at least 5,000 students a year through our community investments program ensuring that at least 50% of students are women and girls. (Goals #1, #4 & #5) From 2016 to 2019, Agility and its employees donated over $16 million to support 443 community projects in over 30 countries. Over 10,000 employees volunteered to support 36,000 people. In particular, our programs focus on women and girls, as well as providing tech education resources and support. Our C ​ ommunity Investments webpage​ includes many examples of how our operations in India, Indonesia, Pakistan, Bangladesh, Brazil, and others have donated computers and provided hours of tutoring to support technology education. Each year since 2016, we surpassed our goal of contributing to the education of at least 5,000 students. P.O. Box 25418, Safat 13115 Kuwait Tel +965 1809 222, Fax +965 2467 9617 www.agility.com See pp. 29-33 of our 2019 Sustainability Report for more information and project highlights. Our 2017 – 2019 Sustainability Data Disclosure also includes data on projects and beneficiaries. While we currently require our community investments to support projects with 50% female students, we are not yet tracking beneficiaries by gender. We are actively working to improve impact data collection and monitoring. Expected outcomes: B ​ y supporting education organizations in the communities where we operate, we hope to make a measurable difference in access to affordable education, which will then help our students to access better jobs and break out of poverty. We also hope to strengthen the Agility culture of volunteering and provide meaningful opportunities for our employees to improve their communities. 3. Reduce our direct ​carbon footprint​ by 25% against a 2016 baseline (Goal #13) See 2017 – 2019 Sustainability Data Disclosure for our latest carbon footprint and resource consumption information. In 2019, our emissions were down 5% from 2016 levels. To reduce our carbon footprint, Agility is reducing energy usage in its facilities. For example, in two large facilities in Dubai, improvements to our lighting systems achieved reductions of over 50%, the UAE operation’s carbon footprint by more than 7%. We are also investing in renewable energy generation and sourcing, including the installation of a 6-megawatt peak solar array on our rooftops in Singapore, and 100% renewable sourcing in Agility Spain. Please see p.39 43 of our 2019 Sustainability Report, as well as our G​ reener Operations​ page. Expected outcomes:​ To achieve this goal, Agility will need to comprehensively integrate low-carbon thinking into our operations, so we take advantage of every opportunity to improve the efficiency of our use of energy. We believe that our strong presence in emerging markets, particularly in the Middle East, allows us to facilitate the transition to sustainable logistics in these geographies. 4. Invest in g ​ reen supply chain technology​ (#7) Agility is investing in start-ups that are reshaping the future of logistics through the Agility Ventures team. One of the four priority investment areas is green tech for the supply chain. Agility has committed to investing $18 million in this space over three years. Using our coverage of the logistics market, we can promote promising innovations, such as the Hyllion Class 8 electrification solution, and help them achieve greater recognition and access in the market (please see p. 45 of 2019 Sustainability Report) Expected outcomes: B ​ y supporting green tech for the supply chain, Agility can help new ideas gain traction in the market, facilitating a transition to greener global logistics. 5. Support ​humanitarian logistics​ operations for natural and man-made disasters in partnership with other logistics leaders (Goals #1 & #13) Since 2006, Agility has responded to over 75 humanitarian emergencies around the globe. Agility’s emergency response programs often include the coordination of logistics services in an emergency, and sometimes the donation of logistics equipment, such as refrigerated containers for temperature-sensitive medical supplies. Agility may work through the Logistics Emergency Team, or independently. In 2018 and 2019, Agility conducted 14 different disaster response and preparedness P.O. Box 25418, Safat 13115 Kuwait Tel +965 1809 222, Fax +965 2467 9617 www.agility.com projects in 12 different countries. For the full list, please see the H​ umanitarian operations page​ of our sustainability website. For more detailed information about our disaster response projects, and our ongoing collaboration with the Logistics Emergency Team, please see p. 46-49 of the 2019 Sustainability Report, the last page of the 2017-2019 Sustainability Data Disclosure. Expected outcomes: O ​ ur preparedness and emergency response operations help to reduce the cost and response time of disaster response. Doing this can save lives, and help communities get back on their feet faster when disaster strikes. Partner with humanitarian organizations to contribute to the well-being of r​ efugees worldwide (Goal #1) From 2016 to 2018, Agility raised funds to support the United Nations Refugee Agency (UNHCR) to provide aid for Syrian refugees living in Jordan. Donated funds provided cash transfers through a program that uses iris scanning technology to enable refugees to access funds without the need for a band card. Agility matched employee contributions during a three-month campaign, raising almost 57,000, supporting close to 2,400 refugees displaced by the Syrian conflict. For more, see p. 48 of our 2019 Sustainability Report. Expected outcomes: W ​ e aim for our support to improve the wellbeing of refugees globally. How the SDGs are built into our business model (Goals #8 & #9) Sustainable development, and particularly SDGs #8 and #9, is integrated into Agility’s core business model and our growth strategy. Agility’s 3-pronged approach to responsible business includes the following components: ● Invest in high-quality infrastructure in emerging markets in Africa, the Middle East, and South Asia to improve access to global value chains ● Identify and respond to the needs of SMEs in all markets (see pp. 55 – 56 of our 2019 Sustainability Report for a case study) ● Uphold ethical business practices, honoring rules of engagement and transparency to build trust with stakeholders We bring world-class infrastructure and logistics services to emerging markets, where trade and sustainable development are directly linked. Where Agility invests, we hire local employees and train them on international business standards, improving the quality, security, and reliability of value chains for the long haul. Our operations create opportunities for small and large businesses alike to trade affordably, responsibly, and ethically, creating jobs and improving well-being. 100% of our Agility Africa employees are hired locally. Additionally, Agility engineers design warehouses to be environmentally-friendly, incorporating sustainable warehouse features to increase access to affordable, reliable energy and services in emerging markets (see p. 43 of our 2019 Sustainability Report). For more information on how SDGs #8 & #9 are built into Agility’s business model, please see p. 50-60 of our 2019 Sustainability Report, or visit the​ ​Agility Logistics Parks​ section of our website. P.O. Box 25418, Safat 13115 Kuwait Tel +965 1809 222, Fax +965 2467 9617 www.agility.com How Agility works with other stakeholders to achieve the SDGs Agility works with innumerable charity groups, industry partners, and other stakeholders to contribute to a more sustainable world. In our 2019 Sustainability Report, p. 12 provides an overview of how we engage our stakeholders. Our most notable partnerships are highlighted below, with the page in our 2019 Sustainability Report, or a direct link to our website page where you can find more information: Industry Collaborations ● Clean Cargo Working Group (p. 38) ● Sustainable Air Freight Initiative (p. 38) ● Logistics Emergency Team (p. 47) Innovators ● TVP Solar (p. 45) ● Hyllion (p. 45) ● CargoX (p. 45) Community Organizations ● INJAZ (Kuwait) ● Kuknoor Village (India)​ website ● The Citizens Foundation (Pakistan)​ website ● Gulshan Literacy Project (Bangladesh) ● Oiada (Ghana) ● UNHCR (p. 48) P.O. Box 25418, Safat 13115 Kuwait Tel +965 1809 222, Fax +965 2467 9617 www.agility.com Values into Action Agility Sustainability Report 2019 ABOUT THIS REPORT Agility formalized its Corporate Social Responsibility (CSR) program for the first time in 2006, and issued its first CSR report in 2011. The 2019 Sustainability Report, our fourth CSR or sustainability report as a company, is a progress update on performance from 2016 to 2018. This report covers data and activities from Agility-branded organizations. Data and statistics on human rights, gender and age breakdown, health and safety, and emissions apply only to Agility’s core commercial business division, Global Integrated Logistics (GIL), unless otherwise stated. Agility aims to comprehensively include all subsidiary companies, each independently managed with their own boards and trademarks, in its sustainability reporting within the next 5 years. Examples of CSR initiatives at infrastructure and subsidiary companies are included as case studies. Three of our subsidiary companies report on sustainability independently. For Tristar, more information is available in their 2018 Sustainability Report. Both UPAC and GCC Services submit a Communication on Progress to the UN Global Compact which is available on the UN Global Compact website. All data covered is current through the end of 2018. We have made every effort to ensure the accuracy of information presented, and we are continuously working to improve the quality of the data and data management systems to capture and report on non-financial information. The limitations of the data, measurement techniques and basis of calculation are described throughout the report as relevant, and specifically in Annex II of this report. We have not pursued external validation for this report. Information presented in this report has been reviewed by relevant subject matter experts within Agility and signed off by the senior management team. This report contains Standard Disclosures from the GRI Sustainability Reporting Guidelines (G4). All Agility CSR reports can be viewed on Agility.com in the Sustainability section. We welcome your feedback and questions. To contact Agility’s sustainability team, please email us at csr@agility.com. Content CEO Statement 2 Agility's Business 3 Sustainability Strategy8 14 Putting People First 29 Giving Back to our Communities 34 Green Logistics is Good Logistics 46 Disaster Preparedness and Response 50 Shared Prosperity through Sustainability 61On the Horizon 62 Annexes Sustainability Highlights 4 90 ENVIRONMENT TOP TRACKING % EMISSIONS FOR 600 K % OF OUR OPERATIONS OFOURINDUSTRYFOR VOLUNTARILY REPORT ENVIRONMENTAL PERFORMANCE ENERGY USAGE CUSTOMER SHIPMENTS 1.6+ 45+ 2.5K COMMUNITY MILLION PEOPLE HUMANITARIAN REACHED THROUGH COMMUNITY RESPONSE OPERATIONS SINCE 2008 REFUGEES SUPPORTED VIA UNHCR PROJECTS SINCE 2006 70 % 50 % 30 % PEOPLE OF EMPLOYEES TRAINED EMERGING MARKET DECREASE IN IN FAIR LABOR PROGRAM OPERATIONS AUDITED BY THIRD PARTY FOR HUMAN RIGHTS INJURIES SINCE 2016 100 MODERNIZING 313Km 30 + SUSTAINABLE $ DEVELOPMENT TECH & SERVICES IN 2 MILLION OF WAREHOUSING INVESTED IN DIGITAL PLATFORM COUNTRIES IN UNDER CONSTRUCTION IN TO SUPPORT SME LOGISTICS AFRICA & MIDDLE EAST AFRICA & MIDDLE EAST CEO STATEMENT The decisions we make today shape global supply chains Sustainability is something we take seriously, at every level of our company, and is part of our engagement strategy with our customers, suppliers and communities. Our primary asset is our people, so the industrial infrastructure across the Middle cornerstone of our sustainability strategy is East, Africa and Asia, improving the ability of the protection of our employees’ rights and countries to connect to the world. well-being. Our Fair Labor Program, now integrated into all of our largest operations Reducing negative environmental impacts is across the Middle East and Asia, sets a high critical to both our social and financial bottom standard for the protection of human rights, line. We believe green logistics = good with zero tolerance for modern slavery or child logistics. There are significant efficiency gains labor. Just recently, six of our largest country from tackling sustainability issues in both We have a great operations in Asia and the Pacific underwent Agility’s and our customers’ supply chains, and voluntary third-party human rights audits. Our particularly through reducing the use of fossil Target Zero health and safety program fuels. Careful data collection across our opportunity to consistently achieves industry-leading results. operations has allowed us to identify and address the main drivers of emissions so we drive a positive We aim to strengthen every community where we operate. The Agility community investments can reduce our own carbon footprint. By working in partnership with our customers and transformation to a program, with close to 2,300 Agility volunteers working on more than 120 projects in 30 carriers, contributing to the Clean Cargo Working Group and other collaborative platforms, sustainable and countries in 2018, is the manifestation of the collective spirit of giving across our business. Our and supporting start-ups pioneering green logistics innovations, we help guide the equitable future employees partner with communities to improve industry to overcome challenges and meet new educational outcomes and enable entrepreneurs, regulations with better services and innovation. preparing tomorrow’s business leaders. Our for global trade. efforts in humanitarian response and preparedness are helping to build capacity to respond to While we still have a long way to go to achieve the change we want to see in the world, I’m increasingly frequent extreme weather events. proud of Agility’s progress since our sustainability Through financial support to the UNHCR and the journey formally began in 2011. Nascent MIT Enterprise Forum’s Innovate for Refugees initiatives have grown together into a program, we actively support tech-driven solutions comprehensive strategy that is part of our for the world’s most vulnerable populations. corporate identity across the globe. Engaging As a leading logistics company, with operations in with our shareholders, customers, employees, over 100 countries, the decisions we make today We believe in equitable and inclusive supply suppliers, partners and communities is a shape global supply chains, influence prosperity chains. More trade, fairer trade, and trade with critical part of our journey. We would like to in emerging and developed markets, and impact more actors leads to greater global prosperity, thank you for your support, and welcome you our own long-term success. Sustainability is and is good for our business. Agility strongly to give us feedback on how we can continue to something we therefore take seriously, at every believes that small and medium-sized improve and make a difference. level of our company, and part of our engagement businesses, in particular, are currently strategy with our customers, suppliers and under-served in the logistics space. We have communities. Our sustainability program launched Shipa, a digital logistics company, to responds to the environmental and social risks connect small and medium-sized businesses to that we face as a business, as well as those areas the global economy in the areas of ecommerce where we have the greatest opportunity to drive logistics, urban deliveries, and online freight. a positive transformation to a sustainable and Agility is also improving emerging markets equitable future for global trade. competitiveness by building world-class Tarek Sultan, CEO CEO Statement 2 Agility ’s Business 392 K TONS AIR FREIGHT 777TEUs K OPERATING 100+ GLOBALLY IN OCEAN FREIGHT COUNTRIES 2.2 MILLION SQUARE METERS WAREHOUSING & STORAGE 2.4+ MILLION SHIPMENTS 26 K+ EMPLOYEES $ 5.1 BILLION REVENUE Overview Logistics to connect your world ABOUT OUR BUSINESS HISTORY Agility is a global logistics company with $5.1 billion in annual revenue and 26,000+ Agility began as a local warehousing provider in Kuwait and grew to become the largest employees in more than 100 countries. It is one of the world’s top freight forwarding logistics company in the Middle East. and contract logistics providers, and a leader and investor in technology to enhance supply chain efficiency. It acquired more than 40 logistics brands around the world, investing billions to build a global network with a strong footprint in Agility is a pioneer in emerging markets and one of the largest private owners emerging markets. and developers of warehousing and light industrial parks in the Middle East, Africa and Asia. Agility’s subsidiary companies offer fuel logistics, airport services, commercial real estate and facilities management, customs digitization and remote infrastructure services. Agility's Business 4 What We Do Global Integrated Logistics (3PL) Logistics Parks (2PL) Freight Contract Supply chain Specialized Warehousing & light forwarding logistics solutions logistics industrial facilities Infrastructure Portfolio (Subsidiaries) Fuel Aviation Commercial Customs Remote logistics services real estate digitization life support Digital Platform: Shipa eCommerce eDelivery eFreight The Agility Group Core business Agility provides supply chain services in 100+ countries and is a leading developer of logistics parks in emerging markets. Global Integrated Logistics (GIL) Agility Logistics Parks (ALP) GIL offers air, ocean and road freight forwarding, warehousing, Agility Logistics Parks offers world-class warehousing and light distribution and specialized services in project logistics, fairs and events, industrial parks for the Middle East, Africa and Asia, with 1.5 billion in and chemical logistics. GIL accounted for about 68% of total Agility real estate assets and over 20 million square meters of industrial land headcount in 2018. in 17 high-growth, emerging markets. Infrastructure portfolio Agility’s subsidiary companies are independently operated businesses that strengthen trade infrastructure in emerging markets. Tristar is a liquid logistics solutions provider UPAC is a commercial real estate company NAS is the world’s fastest growing aviation catering to the downstream petroleum and with a portfolio that includes airport and mall services company in emerging markets. chemical industries across the Middle East, properties in Kuwait and Abu Dhabi. NAS serves 40+ airports across the Middle Africa, Asia and the Americas. East, Africa, and Asia. (‫ﻣﻘﻔﻠﺔ‬.‫ك‬.‫م‬.‫ﺷﺮﻛﺔ ﺟﻠﻮﺑﺎل ﻛﻠﯿﺮﯾﻨﺞ ھﺎوس ﺳﺴﺘﻤﺰ )ش‬ GCC Services focuses on providing life GCS is a joint venture with the Kuwait General Agility’s public sector arm serves governments, support, catering, and worldwide camp Administration for Customs (KGAC) to modernize, ministries of defense and international facility construction and management. optimize and support Kuwait customs operations. organizations around the world. ICS provides governments around the LABCO (Kuwait International Laboratory) provides MRC offers waste management, scrap trading, world with customs modernization, trade third-party quality control and assurance services and recycling solutions in the Middle East. facilitation and e-government solutions. through scientific analytical data. SHIPA Shipa is a digital logistics platform designed to help consumers and small businesses tap into the global economy. Shipa Ecommerce gives access to fast-growing Shipa Delivery offers businesses and consumers Shipa Freight makes it easy to get instant air and and complex e-commerce markets, offering on-demand, same-day, next-day or cross-border ocean freight quotes and to book, pay and track freight, fulfilment, delivery and returns solutions, urban deliveries. Hassle-free delivery is now a reality. your shipments online. underpinned by easy-to-use digital integration. Agility's Business 6 OWNERSHIP & GOVERNANCE Agility is publicly listed on the Kuwait Stock and the Public Institution for Social Security, The Chairperson of the Board of Directors is Exchange and the Dubai Financial Market. a representative of Kuwait’s government Henadi Al Saleh. The Vice Chairman & CEO pension fund. of the company is Tarek Sultan. For more on We have an estimated 14,000 shareholders our ownership and governance, as well as including both individuals, and public and Agility’s parent company is governed by an recent financial performance, please visit our private institutional investors. The largest elected Board of Directors and provides global Investor Relations page and our most recent shareholders are the National Real Estate policy and strategy guidance. The Board is elected Annual Report. Company, a publicly listed company in Kuwait, every three years and has six members. GROUP FINANCIAL PERFORMANCE ECONOMIC VALUE Group Financial Performance 2018 Economic Value 2018 in millions of Kuwaiti Dinars in 000s of Kuwaiti Dinars Revenue 1,550 DIRECT ECONOMIC VALUE GENERATED 1,554,662 Net Revenue 498 Net Revenue Margin 32% Revenues 1,550,190 Cash rec’d as interest on financial loans 893 EBITDA 155 Dividends rec’d from shareholdings 2,054 EBITDA Margin 10% Cash rec’d from sale of assets 1,525 ECONOMIC VALUE DISTRIBUTED 1,459,083 Net Income 81 Net Income Margin 5% Cash Operating Costs 1,167,000 Salaries & Employee Benefits 236,364 Total Assets 1,843 Payments to Providers of Capital 45,533 Total Liabilities 777 Payments to Government 6,196 ROA 4% Community Investments 3,990 ROE 8% KFAS 764 NLST 2,121 GIL Revenue 1,153 Zakat 848 GIL EBITDA 36 CSR Donations 257 Infrastructure Revenue 412 Infrastructure EBITDA 131 ECONOMIC VALUE RETAINED 95,579 More details about Agility’s financial performance can be found in the company’s latest annual report and quarterly earnings releases available on our website. Agility's Business 7 Overview Sustainable supply chains for a brighter future SUSTAINABILITY STRATEGY OUR FOCUS Agility is on track to integrating sustainability into the heart of Agility’s environmental activities focus on reducing the use of fossil fuels through our business. Our preliminary materiality assessment allows us efficiency measures and sourcing of to identify and prioritize activities that address our direct envirenewables. Our social activities focus on respect for human rights, community ronmental and social impact and explore opportunities where engagement and humanitarian logistics. Our economic development activities focus on we can make a difference. We have also reserved space for improving trade infrastructure and helping philanthropic activities that reflect the spirit of our employees, SMEs access global supply chains. including our extensive community investments program. Sustainability Strategy 8 Our Strategic Framework Putting people first Greener logistics Sustainable trade EMBEDDING SUSTAINABILITY INTO OUR CULTURE INFRASTRUCTURE EMPLOYEES GREENER OPERATIONS INVESTMENT IN EMERGING MARKETS • Respect human rights across the supply chain • Embed the sustainability factor in every aspect of our performance • Build high-quality infrastructure for trade • Empower a diverse workforce competitiveness in high-potential new markets • Reduce environmental impact through • Zero H&S incidents efficiency measures and innovation DIGITAL TRANSFORMATION CONNECTING SMALL OUR COMMUNITIES GREENER SUPPLY CHAINS AND MEDIUM-SIZED BUSINESSES TO THE GLOBAL ECONOMY • Enable quality education in emerging markets • Enable customers to make greener choices • Support supply chain partners for success • Level the playing field for all businesses • Encourage a culture of volunteerism through innovative logistics solutions in a low-carbon future OUR STRATEGY OUR SUPPLIERS The assessment of our material risks and The ability to manage a complex global the world using a combination of owned and opportunities informs our three-pillar network of suppliers is part of the inherent outsourced assets. The implication is that sustainability strategy, and represents the value we add to our customers. As an subcontractor management is an important three areas where we believe we can best asset-appropriate company, Agility does not part of our core business. When it comes to contribute to a more sustainable future. always own the ships, planes and trucks we sustainability issues, Agility works closely with move freight on. Rather, we offer the strategic carriers through various industry First, by putting people first, both with our technological backbone and supplier partnerships described throughout this report. employees and in the communities where we relationships to move freight anywhere in operate, we can contribute to a more equitable world, and help to address poverty and low levels of education. Second, by innovating to improve energy efficiency in our operations, as well as sourcing more renewable energy, we can reduce our direct environmental impact. Our large footprint means that as we work with suppliers and supply chain partners, we can advocate for change. Lastly, Agility’s success depends on the successful integration of emerging markets into global supply chains. Addressing gaps in infrastructure, as well as designing services to level the playing field for small and medium-sized businesses, is good for our business and a more sustainable, equitable trade system. Sustainability Strategy 9 GOAL 1: NO POVERTY GOAL 8: DECENT WORK AND Humanitarian Operations ECONOMIC GROWTH Community Investments Human Rights, Health and Safety Poverty is widespread across the world. The Agility Fair Labor program sets Agility’s community investments program a high standard for human rights allows employees to tackle poverty issues practice, including a strict policy that are close to home. Agility also provides help prohibiting recruitment fees and implementing directly to communities impacted by disasters, procedures to prevent exploitation of our and is one of four logistics leaders that make workforce, including employees hired by thirdup the Logistics Emergency Team, a humanitarian parties. In this way, Agility contributes to the UN response partnership with the UN Global Logistics target to end modern slavery and child labor by Cluster and World Food Programme. 2025, protect labor rights, and promote safe and secure working environments. GOAL 4: QUALITY EDUCATION Community Investments GOAL 9: INDUSTRY, INNOVATION Agility’s community investments AND INFRASTRUCTURE Infrastructure Investments program supports teacher training, school building and facility Agility supports emerging market improvements to enable students to access competitiveness by building quality education in emerging markets. We have world-class industrial infrastructure an ambitious target to make a measurable across the Middle East, Asia and Africa. Agility contribution to the education of 5,000 students invests in innovation. Our digital logistics each year by 2025, with 50% of those being girls. company, Shipa, empowers small and medium-sized businesses to be part of the global economy by enabling them to bring their GOAL 5: GENDER EQUALITY Diversity logistics online. At Agility, we work to ensure women have equal opportunities for GOAL 13: CLIMATE ACTION leadership and advancement. Greener Operations Greener Supply Chains Across over 100 countries, we GOAL 7: work to reduce our emissions AFFORDABLE AND CLEAN ENERGY Greener Operations through good data management, Greener Supply Chains behavior change, and investment in SUSTAINABLE DEVELOPMENT GOALS sustainable warehousing and freight technologies. The Sustainable Development Agility actively investigates how to In our supply chain operations, we work with Goals (SDGs), set by the United Nations improve the energy efficiency of our carriers and suppliers to reduce transportation General Assembly in 2015, are a universal call operations and seeks to launch pilot emissions, as well as participate in industry to action to end poverty, protect the planet and investments in renewable energy sourcing and platforms to advocate for climate smart policies. ensure that all people enjoy peace and generation, where feasible for our business. We We provide our customers with monthly prosperity. Agility contributes to several SDGs also support start-ups championing new energy emissions reports and offer green solutions to across a number of our sustainability activities. solutions for the supply chain. help customers reduce their emissions and waste. Sustainability Strategy 10 Material Risks & Opportunities Agility has identified 24 material sustainability In the chart below, the x-axis represents We will undergo a full stakeholder topics in five categories: environmental Agility’s view on how much these topics engagement into materiality exercise in (5), social (7), governance (3), economic (4) impact the long-term health of our business. 2019/20 and will update our prelimary and technology (5), based on external The y-axis shows how our customers, findings based on that exercise. research and subject matter expertise community partners, suppliers, government from our stakeholders. stakeholders and others prioritize these For a detailed description of each topic’s topics based on ongoing conversations. associated risks and opportunities, as well We have built a preliminary materiality as our management approach, please refer matrix that prioritizes topics based on Agility is moving towards formalizing and to Annex I of this report. urgency and potential impact. extending its stakeholder engagement process. Materiality Matrix 2018 Importance to our stakeholders Compliance Climate change Corruption Big Supplier management/ Free data procurement trade Material waste Women’s Automation Emerging markets empowerment growth Energy Diversity & Data security & Human transformation inclusion privacy rights Sustainable Road safety Sustainable Changing workplace Refugees refrigeration expectations Circular Internet of Things Education economy (IoT) Air pollution Humanitarian assistance SMEs & Extreme sustainable trade weather events Environment (6) Social (7) Economic (4) Technology (5) Governance (3) Importance to Agility Sustainability Strategy 11 OUR STAKEHOLDER GROUPS As part of our ongoing business relationships, Agility regularly engages with stakeholders on strategic sustainability topics of shared interest. The sustainability team provides tools, resources and training for different divisions within our business to understand how to listen to customers about their sustainability challenges, articulate Agility’s related policies and activities, and identify opportunities to collaborate for a more sustainable future. SUPPLY CHAIN PUBLIC SECTOR AND PARTNERS/ COMMUNITY INVESTORS SUPPLIERS CUSTOMERS ORGANIZATIONS Institutional and Ocean, air and road Big MNCs to SMEs, Governments, private investors, freight carriers, private companies international Who are they manpower providers, across a range of organizations and both existing and potential other subcontractors, sectors, including retail, NGOs that help us as well as industry F&B, pharmaceuticals, drive positive change organizations automotive, etc. in our communities •Compliance • Compliance • Compliance •Humanitarian •Corruption • Supplier Management/ • Human rights Assistance •Data Privacy Procurement • Supplier Management/ •Refugees Material topics & Security • Climate Change Procurement •Human Rights that matter most •Human Rights • Human Rights • Corruption •Quality Education •Climate Change • Energy Transformation • Climate Change •Women Empowerment Annual General Industry groups Regular business Consultation with Meeting, Annual Report, such as the Clean reviews with our organizations on How we ongoing conversations Cargo Working Group largest customers, shared goals to plan engage them with Treasury and and the Sustainable include sustainability and implement Investor Relations Air Freight Association topics of shared community projects or department commercial discussions interest determine how Agility can best support Sustainability Strategy 12 GOVERNANCE Sustainability is represented at the Board level. Agility’s Board of Directors Agility’s CEO has long been deeply and personally engaged in shaping the company’s Board sustainability strategy. Sustainability Committee The Board of Directors formed a sustainability committee in 2019 to formally guide and Vice Chairman monitor social and environmental issues & CEO company-wide. Sustainability is one of the portfolios led by the company’s Group Chief Marketing Officer, and is spearheaded day-to-day by the Vice President of Sustainability. By design, Chief Marketing much of the operational execution of the Officer sustainability strategy falls to the business. Vice President Sustainability MANAGEMENT APPROACH Our management philosphy is to work through the business. Different programs within our sustainability strategy have their own separate management approaches based on how they are embedded into the business. HUMANITARIAN COMMUNITY ENVIRONMENT FAIR LABOR ASSISTANCE INVESTMENTS For green operations and supply Agility’s Vice President for The Sustainability team is responsible Each region has a Sustainability chain projects, the sustainability Sustainability works with our for the development and monitoring of Coordinator, managing networks of team acts as an internal consultant humanitarian partners to the Fair Labor program, resources and volunteer leaders in each country of to the business, providing general determine the need and tools, as well as management training. operations. Projects are executed guidance and establishing systems feasibility of deploying Agility Country-level HR management is locally by country offices, with for reporting. Depending on the expertise and assets in disasters. responsible for implementing the financial and program support from country context, employees from Resources for disaster relief are program in country, including the Corporate Sustainability team. finance, quality or operations assist allocated centrally, but these self-assessment, employee training, in our resource usage reporting. efforts usually draw on local and leading on corrective actions. Each The sustainability team also works offices for support in execution. country’s Quality Management also with Sales and the Integrated receives training on the program and Supply Chain Solutions team to monitors compliance with our Global engage customers with Human Rights policy. sustainable solutions. Sustainability Strategy 13 Overview Leading the market with human rights HUMAN RIGHTS OUR FAIR LABOR PROGRAM In many dynamic emerging markets, labor laws and enforcement have not The Agility Fair Labor Program embeds respect kept pace with the growth in global trade. Volatile and unpredictable supply for human rights into our organization, ensuring that all employees know their rights chains can sometimes mean volatile and unpredictable income and working and how to exercise them. Driven from conditions for the people that are the collective engine of global commerce. the highest leadership in the business, the program includes a comprehensive Global This is why, as a leader in emerging markets logistics, Agility must take the Human Rights Policy and implementation lead by setting and enforcing a high standard for the protection of human tools. The program has been growing steadily rights and well-being for everyone in our operations. since its inception in 2007. Putting People First 14 PROTECTION FOR COMPLAINANTS HEALTH, SAFETY & THE ENVIRONMENT COMMUNITY & STAKEHOLDER ENGAGEMENT Agility investigates all reported ethics Agility ensures all employees have the right Establishing open dialogue with the grievances while protecting complainants. training and equipment to perform their job communities in which we work is essential to Agility forbids any retaliatory action toward safely and healthily. Accommodations, when identify and collaboratively address any fair anyone raising a grievance in good faith. provided, are clean, safe and secure. labor issues in our supply chain. Our Human NO FORCED LABOR Rights NO DISCRIMINATION & HARASSMENT We prohibit the use of forced labor, including Agility does not discriminate on the basis of labor demanded of employees because of their debt. We don’t tolerate agencies charging prospective employees illegal recruitment Promise race, color, religion, gender, age, nationality, sexual preference, disability or any other factors prohibited by applicable laws. Agility is ‘fees’ or bribes, and will not hold passports committed to providing a work environment without voluntary consent. that is free from all types of harassment. NO CHILD LABOR FAIR WORK HOURS & WAGES FREEDOM OF ASSOCIATION Agility does not employ anyone under legal Agility strives to compensate employees fairly, Agility takes an open attitude toward collective working age, and ensures no one under 18 and comply with all minimum or living wage bargaining, where permitted by law, and will works in hazardous conditions. requirements, overtime and benefit laws. We not hinder the development of means for do not allow disciplinary measures that cause independent and free association. an employee to work without pay. Putting People First 15 OUR 2025 GOALS PROGRESS TOWARDS OUR GOALS 100% of countries understand human rights risks 96% 100% of countries identify their own human rights risks 100% of employees trained on human rights 69% 100% of countries audited 46% 100% of employees trained on human rights 100% of largest emerging market operations are audited every two years HOW IT WORKS For our largest operations in Asia and the Middle East, HR managers submit a human Self-Assessment rights self-assessment for their country. All conducted within Management country management and HR employees go the past year training through a management training session, where they apply our policies through real 1 2 scenarios taken from across our operations. A select group of Fair Labor trainers rolls out 43 the program to all employees, including those hired by a third party, and ensures each site has a responsible person and fair labor posters, and that the anonymous grievance Third-party Employee reporting channels are clearly posted. Once audit rollout the training is complete, all non-compliance areas are addressed and an audit follows. The cycle repeats every 2 years. Human rights workshop in Indonesia: Scenario modelling ABOUT OUR BUSINESS XX PROGRESS BY REGION MIDDLE EAST AND AFRICA We assess human rights risk for our business Self-Assessment Management Employee Reporting Audit on the basis of the scale of our operations, the country conducted w/n training rollout completed presence of potentially vulnerable employees, the past year conducted completed in 2018 including subcontracted or foreign migrant workers, and the country regulatory environment. Algeria Bahrain We have identified 26 operations in the Egypt Middle East and Asia Pacific, reflected in the Iraq tables to the right, for full participation in our Jordan Fair Labor program. Kenya Kuwait Each country undergoes self-assessment and Lebanon management training each year. Employee Training Oman and third-party audits occur every 2 years. Saudi Arabia South Africa In Europe and the Americas, labor laws and Turkey enforcement tend to be stronger. For these UAE, Abu Dhabi regions, our operations undergo UAE, Dubai self-assessment and management training each year. Employee trainings are conducted as requested by management. Audits are conducted as requested by third-parties. ASIA & THE PACIFIC EMPLOYEE ENGAGEMENT AND COLLECTIVE BARGAINING Reporting Self-Assessment Management Employee Audit Agility strives to maintain an ongoing country conducted w/n training rollout completed dialogue and a relationship of mutual respect the past year conducted completed in 2018 with employees. We protect Freedom of Association and ensure all employees know Australia how to anonymously and confidentially report grievances. All reports are investigated. Bangladesh China The total percentage of our workforce that is Hong Kong unionized is estimated to be below 3%. With regards to unionization, there is a wide variety India of arrangements in Agility depending on local Indonesia laws and regulations. Agility employees in Malaysia Brazil, Sweden, Finland, Spain and Italy are unionized, as are some in the United States, Pakistan Germany, Portugal and Australia. In some EU Philippines countries, like France, employees have the Singapore right to be consulted and informed about company decisions through country and Thailand EU-level works council representation. Vietnam Putting People First 17 Safety is our No.1 Priority HEALTH AND SAFETY OUR HEALTH AND SAFETY FOCUS A health-and-safety-conscious workplace is a critical Even with the right equipment and the right training, priority for Agility. It is the first item on the agenda for accidents can still happen. Agility’s multifaceted every management board meeting. We’ve set a global target, Target Zero, to achieve a zero-incident work approach to health and safety goes far beyond environment for all of our facilities. When it comes to the health and well-being of our people, no other target compliance to changing our behavior, and it’s gotten makes sense. us industry-leading results. Putting People First 18 Our QHSE Approach Secrets to our health and safety success ONGOING RISK BEHAVIOR-BASED ASSESSMENTS APPROACH Ongoing assessments of each How do we achieve and maintain Agility fosters a work culture region and country’s unique a high health and safety standard where each individual is risk profile help us optimize across a multifaceted business responsible for everyone’s our efforts by ensuring we with operations in over 100 safety. Employees, especially address both the needs on the countries? By building a culture frontline operations staff, view ground and the expectations of of safety. reporting incidents as an our customers. essential part of building a safe work environment. STOPPING ACCIDENTS FOSTERING CONTINUOUS TECHNOLOGY TO BEFORE THEY START COMMUNICATION EMPOWER OPERATIONS Safety training in on-boarding, To support ongoing Those employees that are most risk assessments and a focus on communication and best vulnerable to health and safety reporting allow us to tailor safety practice sharing of the global risks are often not sitting in programs to the needs of our health and safety team, tools front of computers. Agility’s employees at each facility, from like our Global Incident suite of mobile applications safe use of cleaning products in Management System (SIMS) helps everyone play a role in office bathrooms to safely operating enable real-time incident ensuring a healthy workplace. a forklift in a warehouse. reporting and visibility of our safety performance around the world. Putting People First 19 Our Health and Safety Apps WeSafe we The WeSafe mobile app allows our global health and safety team to proactively identify unsafe conditions in real time, and apply corrective action before an incident occurs. By quickly afe uploading a photograph of an unsafe condition in any of our facilities, any employee can essentially communicate a risk directly to the highest levels of the organization in real time. Behavior Based Safety (APAC only) The Behavior Based Safety mobile app enables the documentation of behavior-based observations. Employees conduct inspections and record “safe” and “unsafe” observations. Recorded observations are analyzed to identify training needs and support implementation of operational controls to reduce the hazards and associated risks in the facility. The application captures the records in a non-WiFi/3G/4G environment and transmits the report once the device is back in network range. Take5 (APAC only) The Take5 mobile app ensures that all possible hazards are identified and the associated risks analyzed before work begins. It allows users to carry out mini risk assessments of any task, eliminating any hazards or the associated risk that may change the circumstances of the work activity. The app will enforce the ‘Take 5 by 5’ processes before the user/supervisor starts any activity or work. Facility Inspection Checklist The Facility Inspection Checklist mobile app enables the documentation of facility inspections to be automated and the results of such inspections to be captured for further action. The action and status of any non-compliance cases can be monitored and tracked to completion. Putting People First 20 HEALTH AND SAFETY PERFORMANCE Since 2016, we’ve improved our Health and Safety performance considerably, including a decline of 50% in our Total Recordable Incident Rate, and a decline of 30% in our Lost Workday Case Rate, mostly due to strong improvements in the Middle East and Asia. Agility identifies “near miss” events to tailor training to local needs. We are deeply saddened to report three fatalities during this period. In 2016, one employee suffered a fatal motor vehicle accident while driving a tractor trailer, while another was struck by falling cargo while opening a container. The cargo had been improperly loaded at origin. In 2018, an Agility employee driving a motorbike was struck by a vehicle after completing a cargo declaration at the airport. Total Recordable Injury Rate (TRIR) 2.5 2.05 Lost Workday Case Rate (LWCR) 2 1.5 1.15 0.86 1 0.31 0.24 0.21 0.17 0.5 0.81 0.11 0.64 0.44 0 0.25 0.19 0.16 0.15 0.09 -0.5 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 2016 2017 2018 Total Recordable Injury Rate (TRIR) = the rate of Total Recordable Incidents (TRI) per 200,000 hours worked Lost Workday Case Rate (LWCR) = the rate at which injuries involving lost workdays occur per 200,000 hours worked PERCENTAGE OF GLOBAL ISO 14001 GIL HEADCOUNT COVERED BY Environmental Management 47% SELECTED INTERNATIONAL CERTIFICATIONS To ensure that our internal Health and Safety ISO 9001 Quality 60% programs stay up to date with international standards, we encourage our country and branch managers to independently pursue OHSAS 18001 Occupational selected certifications in international Health and Safety 43% standards that are relevant for their unique operations. This approach improves local capacity and motivation to understand and operate to international standards. Putting People First 21 People are the foundation of our success GENDER & DIVERSITY EMPOWERING A DIVERSE WORKFORCE We consider the diversity of our workforce to Agility employees are at the heart of the company’s success. be one of the company’s biggest assets. Our Our people define our character, deliver our performance, logistics experts originate from all around the world, and they provide world-class and possess the specialized knowledge that differentiates service to our many customers regardless of where our operations are situated us a company. or our services are rendered. Agility’s local leadership is empowered with a high degree of autonomy in decision-making, with communication channels in place to allow for best practice sharing across regions. Putting People First 22 Gender & Diversity Gender by job level Worldwide Support Professional Management Director Executive 79% 21% 72% 28% 70% 30% 81% 19% 89% 11% 77% 23 % Gender by region Middle East & Africa Asia Pacific Americas Europe 51% of global workforce 32% of global workforce 11% of global workforce 6% of global workforce 89% 11% 70% 30% 59% 41% 49% 51% Age worldwide <30 y/o (27%) 30-50 y/o (52%) >50 y/o (12%) Unreported (8%) WOMEN IN LOGISTICS Agility faces a challenging industry and In this context, Agility has worked hard to Times are changing. As more young women geographic context when it comes to gender recognize and foster female talent, and has see supply chain as an attractive career option participation. According to the World Bank, achieved women participation levels that are and pursue advanced education in the industry, 104 countries around the world have laws that on par with other companies in the industrial we are seeing more women in logistics. prevent women from working in some jobs, sector, with about 30% representation at the and in many emerging economies, this management level, 19% at the director level, includes certain jobs in transporting goods, and 11% at the executive level. Women occupy particularly at night. Beyond regulations, there important leadership positions, including: are often cultural taboos associated with Chairperson of the Board, CEO of Agility women working in warehouses or driving Chemical Logistics, CEO of Agility Fairs & trucks in some parts of the world. Events, among many others. GENDER AT AGILITY At Agility, we aim to continuously improve our gender performance through policies and action. However, with a business as diverse as ours, a one-size-fits-all approach doesn’t make sense. At the corporate level, Agility is taking steps to motivate regional and country operations to identify their gender gaps and put in place activities and programs that meet their needs at the local level. Some of our activities include: • Raise visibility and recognition of strong female leaders as role models • Wherever possible, flexible work arrangements allow employees to balance work and life demands • Require that qualified women candidates be considered for all roles (some countries) • Collect data and perspectives at the country level to identify strengths and weaknesses THE GENDER PAY GAP IN THE UK Agility has reported on its gender pay gap in have worked for our business for more than 20 the UK since 2017, as required by law. The years. They began working for the company at results, available online, show a gap between a time in which logistics attracted more men men’s and women’s earnings. Upon than women. Decades later, a gender investigation, we found that these results have imbalance persists. To correct this imbalance in to do with the historic composition of the future years, every effort is made to ensure industry workforce, reflected in our business. that new entrants into the workforce are Most of Agility’s senior leaders are men that recruited across genders. Putting People First 24 DEVELOPING THE NEXT GENERATION OF LOGISTICS LEADERS At Agility, our leadership development programs PERSONAL grow and maintain an aligned and collaborative culture, with engaged and skilled leadership driving a dynamic, continuously improving and high-performing organization. Individual development programs are designed to build leaders at every level of our organization, from Developing Driving the global to the branch level, and for individual Capability Collaboration business functions. Each program balances personal and professional growth, developing capabilities and driving collaboration at the personal level, while also improving project work and alignment across our network. Typically, PERFORMANCE programs run in three to four-week blocks over an 8 to 12-month period. Team building is followed by ongoing assignments that address real challenges faced by Agility. The longest-running programs are the Leadership Development Program (LDP) at the Project Work Creating global level, the Management Development Improvement Alignment Program (MDP) at the regional level, and the Branch Management Excellence (BMX) at the branch level. We’ve recently added new programs like Commercial Development Excellence (CDX) and Management for Excellence (M4X). Other BUSINESS leadership training programs are tailored to specific country or functional audiences to meet their unique needs. LDP Leadership Development MDP Management Development BMX Branch Manager Excellence Program Program Program LEADERSHIP DEVELOPMENT PROGRAM MANAGEMENT DEVELOPMENT PROGRAM BRANCH MANAGEMENT EXCELLENCE At the global level, Agility's LDP program At the regional level, the MDP enables senior For our leaders on the frontlines, Agility's provides directors and senior managers with managers and junior level executives with Branch Manager Excellence program aims to current, relevant training on strategy, leadership successful track records to get access to improve business results by increasing and change management. LDP participants work relevant learning and development to organizational capacity via improved in teams on projects critical to the company's accelerate the ability of our people to meet management of human capital, fostering a transformation, including the improvement of today's and tomorrow's challenges. culture of P&L ownership, improving employee operations productivity, sales effectiveness and Participants work with teammates from morale with stronger leadership and improved the continued development of Agility GIL's different cultures and backgrounds across the HR skills, continually upgrading talent and broader strategy. The program design matches region and receive Board-level mentorship. skills of this critical organizational level, and stretch assignments with disciplined learning strengthening the internal succession pipeline. and a coaching environment. Putting People First 25 An experience that The growth and union Great projects with of a group of people from very different The whole program brought out the best in clear relevance to our business. cultures and backgrounds was fantastic. has given me a new me and has given me Moreover, a platform for networking We are already sharing best practices and perspective on work but also confidence to open and building strong relationships and new actively searching for business to move life. A truly life-changing a lot more doorways friendships. Unbeatable! between our branches. experience! in my work and life! “ Leadership development is core to GIL’s strategy. We are building leaders at every level of our organization who share our values and commitment to create a high-performing organization that delivers for our customers, employees and communities.” Steve Dichter, Chief Operating Oﬃcer, Agility WOMEN’S LEADERSHIP IN AGILITY ASIA PACIFIC As part of the Asia Pacific (APAC) Leadership A majority of women surveyed reported that: • Leadership should drive proactive engagement Development Program, Agility leaders studied • Their managers support gender equality and with employees on the topic how to increase the pipeline of female women’s career development • Address low proportions of female candidates employees transitioning to executive and • They benefit from flexible working arrangements at the junior level by requiring the inclusion of director-level positions. In 15 countries, the female candidates in recruiting • Managers do not assume that mothers are group gathered data and conducted a uninterested in career advancement perception survey to understand the current Since the study was conducted, Agility APAC has state of women leadership in Agility and build been working to increase women leadership in To reach an ambitious goal of a 30% increase the business case for women’s empowerment. the region, and achieving results. From 2015 to in women’s participation in leadership, the Interviews with external experts provided 2018, the proportion of women selected for the research team recommended the following actions: guidance on how to implement successful regional Management Development Program women’s empowerment programs based on • Improve the regularity of data on gender jumped from 10% to 50%. We look forward to experience from other companies. indicators, including gender pay differentials empowering more women leaders in coming years. and maternity leave return rates Putting People First 26 GCC transforms lives through training and good employment in conflict zones Gulf Catering Company (GCC Services) is an Agility Services hires as many local employees as above market rate, and receive medical infrastructure company specializing in remote possible, providing needed income for families benefits, vacation time, and an indemnity site services, including camp catering, integrated that have suffered through conflict. when they leave, giving them de facto savings. facility management and camp construction services in Africa, the Middle East and Asia. GCC Services is certified by Highfield Awarding Trained employees have gone on to help Body for Compliance (HABC) in the UK to prepare our three Darfur food warehouses for The company sees its work in remote regions conduct, test and certify HACCP (food safety) ISO 22000 certification. This is the first time as an opportunity to influence a better way of training, and offers eight certified tutors. In such a massive training has taken place and doing business, including setting a high the three locations where GCC Services ISO 22000 certification has been achieved in a standard for human rights and labor standards provides food rations for the UN, 471 remote conflict zone. of its suppliers, implementing good environmental employees have been certified in HACCP, practices, and training local employees. giving them a valuable certification that is applicable for other jobs in restaurants, hotels As a provider of bulk food for the United Nations or food manufacturing. In addition to the in Darfur, Sudan; Abyei, Sudan; and Cyprus, GCC certification, GCC Services employees are paid Putting People First 27 National Aviation Services (NAS) brings world-class training to aviation in Africa National Aviation Services (NAS) is the Accredited Training School (ATS) in Africa trainers, bringing new learning with them. fastest growing aviation services provider in and the Middle East. That year, the school NAS also offers opportunities for international emerging markets, offering a range of trained 477 individuals, offering a range employment, including past programs to airport and air freight services across Africa, of aviation industry training programs for recruit Rwandan and Ugandan employees the Middle East and Asia. Wherever NAS NAS employees, local and international from overseas to join the company builds new ground handling or cargo aviation customers. operations in Kuwait. management infrastructure, implements digital airport systems, or builds and In Tanzania, NAS recently offered fresh grads operates lounges, it trains local employees a comprehensive internship program to help to a high international standard, offering build awareness about the different types of employment opportunities and building career alternatives available in the aviation local skills. industry, and encourage young people to join the private sector. In 2018, the International Air Transport Association (IATA) recognized NAS Uganda, The company also has a Train-the-Trainer formerly Entebbe Handling Services program, which gives promising employees Limited (ENHAS), as a Top Performing IATA the opportunity to travel to other cities as Putting People First 28 Giving back to our communities COMMUNITY INVESTMENTS EMPLOYEES LEAD THE WAY Agility invests to have a positive social impact Any Agility employee can apply for a company grant to support a community project that he or she believes will in every community we touch by improving make a difference, allowing the employee to identify the social issues most relevant to his or her community. education, health and employment opportunities. Agility supports projects that involve partnership with Our community investments are driven by the registered charities who adopt a humane and impartial approach to service. We aim to build long-term commitment and passion of our people. partnerships with established organizations to support youth and education, health, disaster response or environmental action. Giving Back to our Communities 29 Community Investments 2016 2018 16.9M $ 443 PROJECTS 10K+ VOLUNTEERS 30 PROJECTS 36+ BENEFITED K IN STUDENTS COUNTRIES 1 Project Highlights 2 3 2016 to 2018 4 5 Agility volunteers contributed to 433 projects in 30 countries. 6 We don’t have space to feature them all. Here are 18 7 examples of the type of work we do in our communities. 8 9 EDUCATION To learn about more projects, please 10 visit the Community Investments page on 11 sustainability.agility.com. 12 13 14 HEALTH 15 16 17 18 ENVIRONMENT 1 Adoption of Kuknoor Village 7 School refurbishment 13 Support for a children’s hospice India 1000+ 300 Egypt 700 28 Germany 350 10 2 School renovation 8 Classroom building 14 Get Ready, Get Set, STEP! for charity Iraq 500 3 Sri Lanka 200 6 USA n.a. 100 3 Scholarships and supplies 9 Food distribution 15 Green school renovations Thailand 550 78 Vietnam 3000 30 Turkey 698 20 NatGeo run on Earth Day 4 Scouting trip 10 Blood donations 16 Romania 1000 6 Pakistan 56 56 Philippines n.a. 55 5 The Citizens’ Foundation Partnership 11 Cycle for charity 17 Beach cleanup Pakistan 230 35 Switzerland n.a. 1 Taiwan n.a. 40 6 12 Green initiatives to Food distribution RunKuwait 18 prevent landslides Kuwait 787 14 Kuwait n.a. 57 Indonesia 40 40 Beneficiaries Volunteers Giving Back to our Communities 31 Community Investment Project Highlights AGILITY BANGLADESH PARTNERS WITH THE GULSHAN LITERACY PROJECT Since 2016, the Agility Bangladesh team has partnered with the Gulshan Literacy Program to support the education of 500 unprivileged children attending local schools. The Gulshan Literacy Program is built on the principle of equal access to education for all slum children and is dependent on donor funds. This partnership aligns with Agility’s goal to create long-term benefit in children’s lives, through equal opportunity education. Through this program, Agility volunteers contribute their time to students in two different schools, offering tutoring in English, general knowledge and computer skills. The volunteers visit the students for 4 hours per week over the course of a semester. Recently, our volunteers helped by setting up a computer lab. Over years of support, the program has touched the lives of more than 850 students. AGILITY INDIA GIVES BACK ACROSS THE COUNTRY Since 2006, Agility employees across India have been conducting activities with long-term partners in their communities, including nonprofits and schools in Pune, Mumbai, Delhi, Kolkata and Chennai. For example, our employees partnered with St. Joseph’s Night School, where they set up a computer lab and continue to tutor at least 100 young adults a year on IT and basic computer skills, in order for them to get better jobs. This program has reached nearly 1,000 students in Pune. Employees have also donated a bus to Dilasa Kendra, a local nonprofit, to help students get to school and avoid walking long distances on dangerous tracks. They worked with a school for blind children and a local village school on several projects during the past 12 years to aid and enhance their education, and organized a solar power aid project with them to educate them on the environment, sustainability and renewable energy. Giving Back to our Communities 32 A DECADE OF GIVING TO PARALYZED VETERANS IN THE UNITED STATES Over the last decade, Agility USA has raised over USD$3.3 million for disabled veterans. Since 2008, Agility USA has organized the Paralyzed Veterans Golf Open Day to benefit Paralyzed Veterans of America (PVA). Donations go to support Operation PAVE (Paving Access for Veterans Employment), an employment and benefits program run by PVA. Operation PAVE serves all veterans across the United States using a holistic, integrated approach to support individuals, spouses and caregivers in the pursuit of meaningful, sustainable careers. It also offers assistance to employers committed to hiring veterans. Agility DGS underwrites 100% of the tournament cost, so that every dollar raised goes directly to support PAVE. GCC SERVICES BUILDS THE BAREEQ COMPUTER LEARNING CENTER In 2018, GCC Services, an Agility subsidiary particular, the program targets women who are taught by a female refugee from Syria company, funded the establishment of a are not allowed to work, and children who who holds a Bachelor’s degree in IT and was a Computer Learning Center at Bareeq struggle to access quality education. computer teacher in a Syrian middle school. Education and Development, an organization in Amman, Jordan that seeks to provide Launched in May 2018, the project currently opportunities for Syrian, Palestinian and Iraqi meets the needs of 350 women and children refugees residing in Jordanian refugee camps, between the ages of 13 and 60, providing allowing them to create new lives and become computer training, job skills and business part of the societies in which they are living. In set-up mentoring. All week, women’s classes Giving Back to our Communities 33 Overview Green logistics is good logistics OUR ENVIRONMENTAL APPROACH OUR ENVIRONMENTAL IMPACT Agility’s three-pronged environmental sustainability program Emissions from fuel and electricity used to power our supply chains drive most of our responds to the nature and characteristics of our environmental environmental impact. impact. First, for our supply chains, we work with customers and During this reporting period, we are most carriers one-on-one and through industry collaborations. Second, proud of the strides we have made to better report our emissions, as well as the fact that for our operations, we invest in efficiency improvements and we have now set a clear target for emissions reductions of 25% by 2025. sustainable features for our assets, and support country operations to pursue their own sustainability projects. Third, we contribute to a green shift in the industry by investing in start-ups that are pioneering new, clean technologies for our industry. Green Logistics is Good Logistics 34 Our Carbon Footprint Supply Chain Emissions Direct Emissions 97% 3% 4.5 mil MTs 139kMTs 2.26 milMTs 71 k MTs 412kMTs Our response: • Energy efficiency investment • Renewable energy sourcing Our response: and generation • Industry advocacy • Innovative green • Collaborative action logistics technologies Our Three-Pronged Approach ADDRESSING SUPPLY ADDRESSING INVESTING IN CHAIN EMISSIONS DIRECT EMISSIONS INNOVATION ADDRESSING SUPPLY CHAIN EMISSIONS ADDRESSING DIRECT EMISSIONS INVESTING IN INNOVATION Supply chain emissions are outsourced emissions Direct emissions are those emissions generated Our own efforts are part of a larger systemic that come from shipments that we coordinate from the electricity and fuel used to power our shift in how our industry operates, driven by but do not operate directly. As an “asset warehouses and move our trucks. While they increasing affordability and access of low appropriate” logistics company, the vast majority account for a much smaller proportion of our carbon fuels and renewable energy, as well (97%) of our carbon footprint is outsourced. This overall carbon footprint (3%), Agility has more as digitization. means that we can have the most impact working control over our direct emissions. To address collaboratively with customers, carriers and other these emissions, we have both a top-down and a Agility’s Corporate Ventures and Sustainability supply chain partners. bottom-up approach. teams engage with innovators in individual markets to identify new innovations that could Agility’s internal Green Team brings together From the top, we analyze our emissions data to be good for business and contribute to a employees from across different functions to identify where investment will have the green transformation of the industry. engage customers, carriers and others actively on greatest impact, and then work with our our shared environmental impact, and how we operations to identify opportunities to reduce Agility’s Corporate Ventures team actively can act together to reduce it, whether through costs and emissions in their unique markets. invests in start-ups that are driving sustainability optimization, renewable energy sourcing or innovations in logistics as one of their priority other methods. Some of Agility’s country operations have investment work streams. independently invested in environmental Agility also participates in industry partnerships projects. In these cases, Agility’s sustainability to advocate for a greener industry, most notably team advises on how to measure impact and through the Clean Cargo Working Group, a BSR communicate accomplishments effectively, in initiative, with membership representing 80% of order to create real case studies from within global container cargo capacity. our business that can motivate other operations to act as well. We engage with: CUSTOMERS SUPPLIERS INDUSTRY LOCAL GREEN-TECH ASSOCIATIONS OPERATIONS START-UPS Green Logistics is Good Logistics 36 ADDRESSING SUPPLY CHAIN EMISSIONS OUR SUPPLY CHAIN STRATEGY: COLLABORATION In our business, the majority of the transportation WORKING WITH CUSTOMERS assets are controlled by our strategic carriers, and We put our expertise to work to help our customers achieve their sustainability goals. customers decide the mode of transport. Ultimately, Agility offers bespoke solutions that measurably reduce costs, kilometers, carbon and waste. Here our impact depends on our influence. Agility engages are some examples of solutions we already offer: closely with customers, carriers and other partners to • Carbon footprint analysis to identify drive positive environmental change. opportunities for emissions reduction • Emissions and cost trade-off modelling for different routing decisions THIRD PARTY-ASSURED C0₂ • Training on emissions measurement SHIPMENT REPORTING methodologies and techniques Agility offers free monthly emissions reports • Green network optimization to achieve a more for our customers. To ensure our customers carbon-efficient supply chain can have confidence in our data, we worked with the experts at Carbon Trust to improve • Reduction and reuse of packaging materials to and verify our web-based carbon footprint meet changing consumer preferences and measurement tool against the ISO 14064 new regulations standard for emissions measurement. • Circular solutions that enable recycling, upcycling or reuse of waste materials CUSTOMER CASE STUDIES WASTE REDUCTION One of our retail customers wanted to decrease supply chain waste in order to mitigate consumer pressure and prepare for impending regulations. Over a period of 5 years, Agility implemented a solution to increase rates of carton reuse in order to reduce waste and save costs in the Philippines and Indonesia. In the Philippines, we were able to double carton reuse, leading to over $50,000 in packaging cost savings. In Indonesia, we increased the average reuse rate from 47% to 72%, leading to new total savings of $78,000. NETWORK RATIONALIZATION One of our chemical customers in Europe challenged us to help organize their distribution network spanning 16 warehouses, packing and filling operations across one country. Agility rationalized the distribution network, reducing the total distance travelled by 22% while maintaining the existing structure and adhering to the existing level of service requirements. The improvements resulted in cost reductions of 13%, a 7% increase in the volume delivered within 400 kilometers, as well as savings of 1,000 tons of CO₂-equivalent emissions. Green Logistics is Good Logistics 37 ADDRESSING SUPPLY CHAIN EMISSIONS WORKING ACROSS THE INDUSTRY Agility collaborates OCEAN FREIGHT Agility participates in the BSR Clean Cargo with both air and Working Group, a cross-industry platform that is the leading buyer-supplier forum for sustainability ocean carriers, in the cargo shipping industry, representing 85% of global container cargo capacity. Working with as well as key shippers, ocean carriers and other freight forwarders in a non-competitive context, Agility customers through has contributed to a standard methodology to measure emissions from ocean freight, which will a number of help shippers to evaluate environmental industry groups performance across shippers and make better choices. dedicated to sustainability. AIR FREIGHT Agility is a founding member of BSR’s Sustainable Air Freight Alliance (SAFA), a collaborative initiative established in 2018, bringing together shippers, carriers and freight forwarders to agree on common standards and methods to measure and report on CO₂ emissions and sustainability performance in order to meet ambitious industry climate goals. Agility sits on the SAFA Steering Committee and represents the Freight Forwarding community. In previous years, Agility participated as a member of The International Air Cargo Association’s (TIACA) Environmental & Infrastructure Sub-committee to establish an environmental best practices program for the air cargo industry. SUPPLIER MANAGEMENT It’s critical for Agility to work with suppliers, trade relationship with Agility once they have trading partners and other organizations that entered critical information on their own share our values and are compliant with our policies, standards and compliance in critical ethics, fair labor, health and safety, and sustainability areas, and are found to qualify. environmental standards. But asking suppliers It requests only what we need according to the to fill out endless questionnaires increases a type and geography of the supplier, saving reporting burden for them and doesn’t time and hassle, while also ensuring that the facilitate quick and easy viewing and sharing of type of information Agility collects is supplier information across our operations. proportional to the sustainability risks that we, Agility’s SmartView stakeholder management and our customers, could face. application seamlessly integrates sustainability into supplier management and procurement. The automated online application enables suppliers to quickly and easily qualify for a Green Logistics is Good Logistics 38 ADDRESSING DIRECT EMISSIONS Greening Our Operations OUR GOAL 25 % REDUCTION IN OUR EMISSIONS FOOTPRINT BY 2025 (against a 2016 baseline) REDUCE REDUCE ENERGY USAGE FUEL USAGE MEASURING PERFORMANCE What doesn’t get measured, doesn’t get Once all the data is verified, Agility’s carbon footprint is ready for public disclosure. It’s never managed. Over several years, Agility has perfect, but we do the best we can to investigate inconsistencies and disclose honestly to the best measurably improved the coverage and of our knowledge. Presently, we are working to enhance our reporting system to automated accuracy of our carbon footprint measurement reporting linked to payment processes, as well as creating emissions efficiency and intensity ratios. by working in close collaboration with our These metrics will allow operations to compare their energy performance against similar peers country operations and systems engineers. within the network. Other initiatives include increasing coverage of emissions from our subsidiary companies, and improving the quantity and quality of data we collect on water and waste. First, we train our operations teams to report their energy usage. The sustainability team works with the country operations team to designate and train a key person to report data on electricity and fuel usage. Next, the indicated person receives training on how to report through our internally developed resource consumption app, which automatically calculates the related carbon emissions. Next, the sustainability team analyzes the data at the country level. For cases where data differs substantially from previous years’ data, the sustainability team conducts a verification exercise with the country to identify whether differences result from data collection and reporting error or from a change in our business in that market. Green Logistics is Good Logistics 39 ADDRESSING DIRECT EMISSIONS Agility Direct Emissions 2011 2018 from warehouses and trucks operated by GIL in metric tons of CO₂ 300 252 253 Electricity Usage Fuel Usage 240 234 250 226 219 210 203 Thousands 200 150 100 50 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 2016 2017 2018 A DATA-DRIVEN APPROACH AGILITY’S CARBON FOOTPRINT TO EMISSIONS REDUCTION Over the past seven years, Agility has The increase in emissions from new reporting We can reduce the carbon footprint of our measured and reported its direct carbon countries was somewhat offset by significant operations in two ways: by improving the footprint. Our 2018 carbon footprint is about reductions in some of our largest markets in energy efficiency of our operations or by 210,000 MTs of CO₂ emissions generated by the Middle East and Asia. These reductions generating and/or sourcing renewable energy. operations in 39 countries, covering an were achieved through efficiency improvements Agility prioritizes emissions reduction activities estimated 90% of the headcount of our core in warehouse operations. in those countries where both the energy logistics business. expenditure and our carbon footprint account Agility is on track to achieve our goal of a for a large percentage of the global total. Our carbon footprint increased by 4% from the 25% reduction in emissions by 2025 against previous year, mostly due to 17 new countries a 2016 baseline. Once we’ve identified the countries with high reporting their energy usage for the first time. potential, Agility’s sustainability team In fact, those 17 new countries accounted for researches the energy market in those 18% of our carbon footprint. countries to determine how best to act. GUIDING QUESTIONS FOR MAKING GREEN DECISIONS ? Are there any incentives for renewable energy investment in this market? ? Will reducing electricity usage lead to significant cost savings? ? Are there any factors that could contribute to an increase in electricity price in the near future? ? For fuel emissions, is the fuel supply infrastructure available to allow us to use alternative fuel vehicles? ? Are solar panels affordable, or is renewable energy sourcing a better deal? ? What partners can we work with? What kind of contract structures are available? ? What options have other companies in our industry pursued? ? Once we determine our options, which investments will maximize environmental benefits and cost savings? Green Logistics is Good Logistics 40 ADDRESSING DIRECT EMISSIONS GRASSROOTS ENVIRONMENTAL INITIATIVES ENVIRONMENTAL INITIATIVES Many of Agility’s ACROSS OUR BUSINESS operations have Since 2016, acted to reduce many of Agility’s their emissions operations have through investments acted to reduce in green warehousing their emissions and renewable through investments energy sourcing 50% REDUCTION IN ENERGY USAGE AT TWO DUBAI MEGA-FACILITIES in green warehousing and generation. The Middle East, where we have our largest andat renewable solutions one facility achieve energy savings operational footprint, is a climate hotspot. of up to 77%, while upgrades to the lighting Cheap, abundant fossil fuels means electricity energy system at a secondsourcing facility reduce usage by over 50%. These improvements stand to consumed there typically generates more greenhouse gas emissions per kilowatt hour and reduce generation. Agility’s For carbon footprint in the United than in other regions. Summer temperatures Arab Emirates by more than 7% and help the are projected to rise twice as fast as the global these business achieve a target ofchampions, green 25% reduction of average, with temperatures above 46°C more our carbon footprint. than five times as likely by 2050. the sustainability Fortunately, Agility Dubai makes progress each team develops Investments to reduce water usage and further efforts to reduce electricity usage case are year in greening our operations to cool our people and our customers’ cargo. New lighting studies to encourage coming in Dubai and other operating regions in the near future. others across the business, and demonstrate how going green can be good for business. 69% OR MORE REDUCTION IN ELECTRICITY USAGE AT DATA CENTERS Since 2011, Agility has been working to reduce has decreased to 69% of peak usage in 2011, power consumption and emissions from our resulting in a reduction of CO₂ emissions by data centers/servers in Irvine, California and over 45 tonnes of CO₂ per year. A similar Leeds, UK. In Irvine, an original virtualization and exercise in Leeds reduced energy consumption consolidation project in 2011 reduced the of the data center to more than 83% less than server totals by over 60%. peak usage in 2010, saving over 60 tons of CO₂ emissions each year. A forthcoming hardware A second consolidation project in 2015 upgrade is expected to reduce energy reduced the number again by a further 60% in consumption by a further 50% of the new total. 2015. Today, our total average electricity usage Green Logistics is Good Logistics 41 ADDRESSING DIRECT EMISSIONS HOW ARE WE DOING? Ecovadis, a not-for-profit organization that rates tens of thousands of suppliers on their sustainability performance, has awarded Agility a silver rating since 2014. Agility ranks in the top 4% of our industry for sustainability performance and in the top 18% of all suppliers worldwide. AGILITY’S CORPORATE HQ BUILDING ACHIEVES LEED SILVER CERTIFICATION The Agility corporate headquarters building in The building also includes triple-pane windows Kuwait, which opened in January 2017, was that are covered in electro chromic coating, to built with state-of-the-art sustainability adjust tint in response to external conditions, features that maximize the use of natural light allowing light to pass through while blocking while improving overall cooling efficiency and heat and increasing energy efficiency. energy use. At the time of writing, Agility is one of only four The 834 m2 building is equipped with solar certified and one of 38 registered LEED thermal panels, which provide the energy projects in Kuwait. needed to operate the air-conditioning units. AGILITY IS RATED IN THE TOP 4% OF THE LOGISTICS INDUSTRY FOR ENVIRONMENTAL SUSTAINABILITY HIGH VOLUME, LOW SPEED FANS IN HONG KONG While the year-round climate in Hong Kong diameter of more than 7 meters, each fan is quite cool, summer temperatures can easily relies on size, not speed, to move a significant reach highs in the low 30s. As the summers get amount of air, resulting in a silent, hotter, Hong Kong sought a solution non-disruptive and even distribution of to keep our employees and cargo cool breezes over large spaces. without adding a lot of energy usage and associated emissions. To achieve the same air flow using traditional, smaller wall fans would require more than 10 The team installed High Volume, Low Speed times the energy. fans at four of our warehouses. With a Green Logistics is Good Logistics 42 ADDRESSING DIRECT EMISSIONS GREEN WAREHOUSING In addition to improving the energy efficiency 5 10 of our existing and leased warehouses, Agility sets a high standard for new builds to ensure that the infrastructure we put in place today will continue to be energy efficient and 4 sustainable in a low carbon future. 6 8 1 2 Agility 9 builds around 200,000m2 of warehouses per year at the global level, and all of Agility’s facilities are built according 3 to environmental rules and regulations. Agility optimizes land usage by building up 7 and not out, maximizing the space available for storage while minimizing the space that requires heating and cooling. For more sustainable warehouse features, please refer to the diagram. SUSTAINABLE Roofing and walls: selecting materials that ensure greatest 6 WAREHOUSE FEATURES energy efficiency for local climate, repelling heat and lowering indoor air temperature Recycling: minimizing environmental impact by collecting Low-emitting paint: reducing health risks associated with 1 packaging and waste for recycling 7 conventional paint 2 Solar panels: turning our rooftops into sources of clean energy 8 Interior and exterior LED lighting: reducing environmental impact and cutting energy costs Xeriscaping and drought-tolerant plants: beautifying, cleaning 3 and cooling industrial areas with plants and trees while Regionally sourced building materials: boosting local minimizing water use for landscaping 9 economies and lowering costs by finding local sources of materials 4 Green building certification: designing according to standards like IFC EDGE for comprehensive sustainability Recycled and recyclable materials: using recycled building 10 materials, or at least, use materials that can be recycled in the future 5 Skylights: lowering daylight lighting costs through use of natural light Green Logistics is Good Logistics 43 RAISING AWARENESS: EARTH DAY Earth Day has been faithfully celebrated across Agility offices around the world for over a decade. Here’s an example of the range of activities across our business from 2017, our 10th Anniversary: Supported 2 wildlife projects 50 green activities/ Organised 8 projects in 18 countries clean-up activities Agility Earth Day Completed 17 Campaign Launched 14 environmental tree-planting campaigns initiatives 1,805 Participated in 2 eco-marathons Agility volunteers Agility Earth Day campaign Renovated 2 10th anniversary schools WASTE MANAGEMENT Our reporting system offers local offices the initiatives, our offices contribute to a greener opportunity to track their waste and water environment by installing low-water use consumption. However, it has been very fixtures, running paperless campaigns, challenging for our local offices to physically planting trees and cleaning up beaches all weigh their different types of waste, which over the world. Anecdotally, we know most means that the consistency and coverage of offices are recycling where services are our data still needs improvement. available, and that pallets and packaging waste are reused or recycled in most of our That said, we’re not letting our measuring largest warehousing facilities. efforts delay action. Through our Earth Day Green Logistics is Good Logistics 44 INVESTING IN INNOVATION INVESTING IN GREEN INNOVATION FOR THE SUPPLY CHAIN Agility is investing in start-ups that are reshaping the future of logistics through the Agility Ventures team. One of the four priority investment areas is green tech for the supply chain. Agility has committed to investing $18 million in this space over three years. CARGOX Agility has invested in CargoX, a platform to revolutionize how road freight is booked in complex markets like Brazil. CargoX works to connect businesses that need to ship freight with truckers who have excess capacity. Brazil reportedly has an excess of between 300,000 and 350,000 vehicles, with trucks running empty 40% of the time. Reducing the number of empty trucks on the highway increases revenue for truckers, reduces costs for freight owners and reduces the carbon footprint of transport. HYLIION Agility has invested in Hyliion, a hybrid technology for the trucking industry that reduces fuel consumption and corresponding emissions up to 30%. The Hyliion technology recycles kinetic energy from braking that would otherwise be wasted. A 30-minute retrofit is all that’s needed for a trailer to begin to use this technology. TVP SOLAR Agility has invested in TVP Solar, a breakthrough, high-vacuum solar thermal technology serving the most energydemanding applications, such as air conditioning, desalination, and process heat. Already deployed in the Middle East – including at Agility’s corporate headquarters – TVP solutions operate autonomously with no need for cleaning, directly replacing fossil fuels with cheaper, cleaner solar heat. Green Logistics is Good Logistics 45 Overview Disaster preparedness and response DISASTER PREPAREDNESS AND RESPONSE THE GLOBAL DISASTER TOLL Major humanitarian emergencies, both of natural and man-made origin, are Natural and man-made disasters have a high economic and social toll. According to Munich exacerbated by the enormous logistics challenges they create. Quick, effective, Re, natural disasters had an economic impact coordinated responses save lives and reduce unnecessary suffering, both for of $160 billion and led to 10,400 fatalities in natural and man-made disasters. 2018, including 3,000 in Indonesia alone. According to UNHCR, over 68 million people in our world have been forcibly displaced by Agility partners with the humanitarian community and other like-minded either natural or man-made disasters, with organizations in the private sector to donate logistics expertise, assets and over half of them children. services when and where they are needed the most. Disaster Preparedness and Response 46 EMERGENCY RESPONSE AGILITY HUMANITARIAN OPERATIONS 2016 2018 We provide direct support in response to emergencies. Agility employees are often Year Country Humanitarian Operations and Preparedness projects involved in actively supporting the coordination 2018 Bangladesh Preparedness activities with the Logistics Emergency Team* of humanitarian response, including donations of Indonesia Preparedness activities with the Logistics Emergency Team* transport services and containers, shipments and Indonesia Donation of overland transport services and provision of crucial logistical information to expertise, to help alleviate bottlenecks in the support the coordination of efforts in Palu, Indonesia after a tsunami* reception and distribution of life-saving food, Iraq Donation of customs clearance process documentation and management support* water, medicine and other supplies. Agility Lebanon Donation of humanitarian logistics/fleet operations training to Red Cross/Crescent* employees often engage in emergency response as part of our partnership with other global 2017 Bangladesh Donation of a refrigerated shipping container to support temperature-controlled storage logistics companies and the Global Logistics for the Rohingya refugee response* Cluster in the Logistics Emergency Team. Bangladesh Flood relief distribution led by Bangladesh office to support 1,200 families on Dharabarshar char island In other cases, our employees mobilize Peru Support coordination of flood relief efforts, collection of more than 400 tons of relief supplies independently to collect donations and for distribution* provide logistics support. Thailand Collection drive for donations and disaster relief logistics support by Thailand office for over 16,000 people in 12 flood-stricken provinces Mexico 70 employees from Mexico office involved in emergency assistance activities and PREPAREDNESS donation collection for Red Cross after massive earthquakes Agility engages in preparedness projects. Somalia Somalia fuel Logistics Capacity Assessment completed by Tristar* According to the UNDP, “Every dollar spent USA Donation and transportation of aid materials from Chicago to Puerto Rico after hurricane reducing people’s vulnerability to disaster USA Donations raised and disbursed by Houston office to help employees affected by Hurricane Harvey saves around US$7 in disaster response and Yemen Donation of a refrigerated shipping container for temperature-controlled medication needed reconstruction.” Preparedness activities help after a massive cholera outbreak* create vital linkages between the humanitarian sector, the public and private sectors, and 2016 Ecuador Donation of 1000m2 of warehouse space and labor for 2 months after earthquake* ensure that local actors on the ground have Haiti Donation of 2,000m2 of space for a staging warehouse for the base of operations for the knowledge and assets to respond when humanitarian supply chain, 11 experienced logisticians, a forklift and generator* disaster strikes. From 2016 to 2018, Agility, as Iraq Supported the Logistics Capacity Assessment* a member of the Logistics Emergency Team, Japan Importation, transport, clearance and set up of 2 mobile storage units flown in from contributed to Logistics Capacity Assessments the United Nations Humanitarian Resource Depot in Malaysia, as well as pallet donation, in Somalia and Iraq, in addition to training and other support after earthquake in Kumamoto* and capacity-building activities in Bangladesh India Donations raised to support those affected by floods in Chennai and Indonesia. Greece Donations raised in Spain to support refugees in Greece *Denotes activities conducted as part of the Logistics Emergency Teams or at the request of the World Food Programme “ More than 75% of the cost for emergency humanitarian assistance comes from supply chain operations. Agility globally supports its humanitarian partners by donating supply chain resources to help humanitarians provide critically needed materials to crisis-affected people in need of assistance. We are proud of our team members who contribute each year to our humanitarian assistance program by deploying to the field or working directly with humanitarian logisticians in active response operations.” Frank Clary, Vice President, Sustainability Disaster Preparedness and Response 47 LOGISTICS EMERGENCY TEAM The Logistics Emergency Team (LET) is Since its establishment, Agility and its LET partners have supported comprised of four of the largest global logistics humanitarian relief responses and/or preparedness projects in many and transportation companies: countries and locations, including Bangladesh, Chile, Ecuador, Agility, UPS, Maersk and DP World work together Ghana, Haiti, Indonesia, Iraq, Japan, Kuwait, Myanmar, Nepal, to support the United Nations World Food Pakistan, the Philippines, Yemen, and the Horn of Africa. Programme-led Logistics Cluster and its partners. The LET partnership was facilitated by the World Humanitarian assistance needs have continued to grow since the Economic Forum in 2005. LET’s founding. In 2018, more than 80% of the Logistics Cluster’s humanitarian funding and resources were allocated for responses to The LET partners provide logistics support to complex emergencies. Since 2017, the LET has expanded its humanitarian emergencies. They also work with engagement to include the ability to respond to calls for assistance the Logistics Cluster to assist local governments during complex and protracted emergencies, in addition to sudden and NGOs with preparedness activities. onset natural disasters. ©UNHCR, David Azia UNHCR From 2016 to 2018, Agility raised funds to PIN code. Jordan is the first country in the world where support the United Nations Refugee Agency humanitarians are using this technology. Agility matched (UNHCR) to provide aid for Syrian refugees living employee contributions dollar for dollar during a three-month in Jordan. The donated funds provided cash campaign, raising almost US $57,000. These campaigns and transfers through a program that uses iris donations provided financial support, allowing more than 480 scanning technology to enable refugees to Syrian families – or close to 2,400 refugees displaced by the access funds without the need for a bank card or Syrian conflict – to ensure their basic needs were met. Disaster Preparedness and Response 48 ©UNHCR, David Azia INNOVATE FOR REFUGEES In 2017 and 2018, Agility supported the second solutions to address the challenges faced globally by refugees. and third editions of the Innovate for Refugees Semi-finalists presented their work to a jury comprised of key technology competition, an initiative of the investors and business people, including Rashad Sinokrot, MIT Enterprise Forum (MITEF) Pan Arab. The CEO of GCC SERVICES, one of Agility’s infrastructure companies. competition looks for the best tech-driven APPLICANTS GENERAL WINNERS 33 % females 3 editions New contacts & additional Solutions address funds raised 13 of 17 SDGs Innovative Training & 28% Scalable Mentorship Financially sustainable 15 winners Impactful Well managed with refugees representing 9 countries on the team Tech-driven solutions to address refugee challenges Egypt, 20% of winning start-ups report annual revenue of Lebanon & Jordan are best represented 100-500K Tech to educate, connect 3,000 Applicants from 27 countries & save the planet 280K ininvestment equity-free awarded Disaster Preparedness and Response 49 Eric Gugua, Agility Africa Photo Competition Overview Shared prosperity through sustainability OUR SUSTAINABLE PURPOSE EMERGING MARKET LOGISTICS Sustainable development is integrated into Agility’s core business model Incorporating emerging markets into global value chains is essential for a sustainable and our growth strategy. When the emerging markets we serve prosper, our future, but it’s a lot more challenging than it business prospers. We bring world-class infrastructure and logistics services to sounds. Shortfalls in the provision of quality emerging markets, where trade and sustainable development are directly linked. infrastructure and logistics services can make trading difficult and expensive. Unpredictable swings in currency values, cost of labor and Where Agility invests, we hire local employees and train them on international property values make investment risky. As a business standards, improving the quality, security and reliability of value company that started in the emerging market chains for the long haul. Our operations create opportunities for small and context, Agility has expert knowledge of how to large businesses alike to trade affordably, responsibly and ethically, creating manage and overcome some of these challenges, opening up new markets to trade. jobs and improving well-being. Shared Prosperity through Sustainability 50 Our Three-Pronged Approach to Responsible Business Responsible Business INVESTING IN UPHOLDING ETHICAL INFRASTRUCTURE BUSINESS PRACTICES Agility is investing heavily By doing business with in infrastructure and integrity, honoring rules trade facilitation services SUPPORTING of engagement and across the Middle East, SMES being transparent, Asia and Africa. Agility builds trust with its stakeholders. Identifying and responding to the needs of SMEs in all markets is integral to Agility’s business strategy. Shared Prosperity through Sustainability 51 INVESTING IN INFRASTRUCTURE AGILITY'S RESPONSIBILITY Agility invests in the potential of emerging East and Asia, we build and operate Three key strengths make us uniquely and frontier markets, providing high-quality, affordable trade facilities, modernize airport well positioned to contribute to emerging secure and efficient infrastructure and services in 30 countries and digitize markets development: services that contribute to social and customs to facilitate faster, more accurate economic development. In Africa, the Middle trade transactions. LOCAL EXPERTISE OUR SCALE & REACH OUR HERITAGE Agility’s emerging markets leaders are The scale and reach of our business allows Our distinct emerging market heritage gives nearly always local experts with decades of us to unite businesses across regions, us a unique perspective on the variety and experience managing practical challenges in leveraging the power of global trade to complexity of challenges companies face in their home context. improve the lives of our diverse stakeholders. fast-growing, high-potential, underserved markets. Challenges of trade in emerging markets How Agility addresses them Dense, ambiguous, or inconsistently applied regulations, and complex Strong understanding of local regulations and relationships with local bureaucratic processes that lead to delays authorities, and planning documentation in advance Connectivity challenges related to insufficient infrastructure Creativity in finding effective routes and modes of transport to move goods Ever-present need for talented, professional and customer-oriented Experienced logistics professionals with a strong understanding human resources of the local market Security considerations, supply chain resilience in parts of the world A safety-oriented approach and ability to respond quickly to external that are often at higher risk for natural disasters or political change events to minimize disruptions Challenges of managing a diverse set of suppliers Strong supplier relationships, project management capabilities, and systems and technology support Fast-changing cost structures, escalating labor and property prices Well-established network in emerging markets, commitment to helping customers manage costs, and proven ability to provide innovative solutions Difficulty finding a logistics partner who truly “gets it” – Can-do attitude, flexibility in tailoring solutions to individual customer not just during the good times, but also when things get tough needs, and a deeply held belief in personal service Shared Prosperity through Sustainability 52 INVESTING IN INFRASTRUCTURE AGILITY LOGISTICS PARKS We see a huge potential for growth in a Both large and small businesses alike face Agility aims to fill this gap in infrastructure number of markets across Africa, the Middle challenges finding world-class warehousing provision with a network of high-quality East and Asia. With over 40 years of facilities that include: warehousing and light industrial facilities expertise in warehousing, Agility can across the continent. • Consistent access to affordable electricity supercharge sustainable growth through the • 24/7 operations To ensure our facilities are accessible for provision of world-class trade infrastructure, • International standards for safety & security smaller players, we offer SME incentive helping to integrate high-potential • Temperature-controlled facilities and packages starting from 500m2 of space, emerging markets into global value chains other specialized facilities without capital requirements, and requiring a and create the right foundation for local • Sustainable building features to save costs three-month rental deposit, as opposed players to expand internationally. and improve efficiency to up to 3 years in some markets. Agility Logistics Parks bring world-class warehousing and light industrial facilities to emerging markets. Move-inready in 18 markets and growing. AFRICA MIDDLE EAST SOUTH ASIA Built-to-Suit Cote D’Ivoire Bahrain Oman India Angola Kenya Ghana Egypt Qatar Pakistan Cameroon Mauritius Mozambique Iraq Saudi Arabia DRC Tanzania Nigeria Jordan Turkey Djibouti Senegal Kuwait United Arab Emirates Ethiopia Lebanon Shared Prosperity through Sustainability 53 INVESTING IN INFRASTRUCTURE DIGITIZING TRADE INFRASTRUCTURE IN EMERGING MARKETS In many emerging market countries, customs Inspection and Control Services (ICS), an average of 21+ days to 120 hours. After clearance delays lead to lost cargo and capital, Agility Infrastructure company, knows the pain implementation in Pakistan, average customs hindering trade, as well as trade’s ability to points of customs collection firsthand. To clearance time dropped from 3-4 days to less power economic growth. Many emerging facilitate trade, ICS developed MicroClear®, a than 5 minutes for participating berths at the market countries still depend on paper-based fully integrated end-to-end web-based Port of Karachi. customs processing systems, with myriad Customs and Single Window Solution that government entities operating physically simplifies customs clearance. Where needed, MicroClear® projects have made a difference, together, but without clear procedures for ICS supports MicroClear® implementation by and continue to do so, in more than 10 cooperation. Traders lose time moving from collaborating across multiple government countries, saving time and money for the window to window, waiting for signatures and agencies to simplify tariff rules, rewrite public and private sector alike. approvals, with cargo delayed by days, and business processes, and coordinate customs sometimes even lost or expired in transit. procedures, helping everyone to trade faster and more transparently. The burden of these delays falls predominantly on smaller traders, who generally lack the When the MicroClear® solution was expertise and resources to manage these implemented in Kuwait in 2005, government situations. For governments, these systems revenue increased by 58% over 3 years, and weaken enforcement of critical controls and continued to increase, while the average time inhibit revenue collection. for customs clearance dropped from an Shared Prosperity through Sustainability 54 SUPPORTING SMES Agility Africa enables exportation: a true story Felicia owns Homefoods, a fast-growing small business that makes mixed rice and seasonings in Ghana. To keep growing, she’ll need to export… $ 3 .5 M IL To secure consistent international orders, she’ll need a packaging facility that meets international standards, but this could cost $3.5 million to build. SUPPORTING SMES The Bank offers her a loan at an interest rate of 29%. $3.5 MIL +29% Interest !! Instead, Felicia rents 1,200 m2 of space in an Agility facility for a reasonable 3-month deposit. The facility’s safety and security certificates meet international buyers’ requirements. She starts exporting right away, and can easily expand as business grows. 95 SUPPORTING SMES SMEs Achieving global prosperity requires inclusive global % supply chains in which all businesses, regardless of size and geography, have access to affordable, high-quality SMEs logistics services. Identifying and responding to the According to the World SME Forum, SMEs account for needs of SMEs in all markets is integral to Agility’s 95% of all ﬁrms, deliver over 50% of GDP, and account for business strategy. MNCs SMEs two-thirds of formal employment in most countries. CHARTING A COURSE FOR SUCCESS FOR SMES 1 27% 39% The Challenge To achieve their potential, SMEs need to overcome the hurdles to 26% say that suppliers have have experienced their goods being lost find logistics providers 42% accessing global supply chains. let them down slow to respond to their needs 40% 40% 39% Agility surveyed 800 SMEs on the challenges they faced to say costs are internationalize. The growing too high number and complexity of have struggled to find find it difficult to have had cargo stopped the right logistics understand in customs compliance standards, high partner documentation costs and low quality of logistics services were among the key impediments. 2 The Opportunity At the same time, our research showed us the extent to which skilled use of technology is increasingly a differentiator among SMEs. Some 86% technology is levelling of those surveyed said the playing field to allow them to operate globally by giving SMEs virtual scale they could never attain before or achieve on their own. 3 The Innovation Acting on what we learned, Agility has world’s fastest growing and most complex decided to invest $100 million over 3 years in Ecommerce markets. Shipa Delivery offers the development and launch of Shipa. Shipa businesses and consumers on-demand, is a digital logistics platform designed to help same day, next-day or cross-border urban businesses, entrepreneurs and consumers deliveries. Shipa Freight makes it easy to get tap into the global economy. Three Shipa instant air and ocean freight quotes, and to businesses meet the evolving needs of book, pay and track shipments online. We’re today’s small businesses. Shipa Ecommerce making it possible for small businesses to gives online merchants access to some of the see their logistics move online. Shared Prosperity through Sustainability 57 UPHOLDING ETHICAL BUSINESS PRACTICES ETHICS & COMPLIANCE Integrity is one of Agility’s core values. By REPORTING CONCERNS & GRIEVANCES We encourage all employees to promptly doing business with integrity, honoring rules report any ethics violations to their supervisors. of engagement, following laws and being We understand this might not always be possible, and that’s why we offer anonymous transparent, we build trust with our employees, and confidential reporting channels in almost every country where we operate. Every report customers, communities, shareholders, we receive is investigated by our Ethics team. suppliers, and public and private partners. CONFIDENTIAL AND ANONYMOUS REPORTING CHANNELS @ TOLL-FREE HOTLINE DEDICATED EMAIL SECURE WEBSITE Call the Agility Alert Line, a tollSend an email to the personal Enter a report on our free hotline operated by a mailbox of any member of the secure website from our third party that can receive calls in Ethics team. employee intranet. 220 languages and accents. Zero-tolerance policy towards bribery Agility is a signatory of the World Economic Forum’s Partnering Against Corruption Initiative (PACI). Signatories of PACI are committed to developing and implementing anti-corruption programs and have a zero-tolerance policy towards bribery. Shared Prosperity through Sustainability 58 UPHOLDING ETHICAL BUSINESS PRACTICES Code of Ethics & COMPETITION AND HEALTH, SAFETY AND Business FAIR SELLING PRACTICES ENVIRONMENTAL PROTECTION Agility’s Code reflects the anti-trust standards Agility’s Code requires that offices and detailed in Agility’s Competition Compliance workplaces be safe for employees, and that Policy which is designed to ensure a marketplace Conduct our products and services are not injurious to free of collusion, abuse of market position, public health, safety or the environment. and other unfair business practices. Before they begin work, all employees are required to read and sign our Code of Ethics & Business Conduct. Core courses on ethics and FINANCIAL INTEGRITY anti-bribery are required for BRIBES, GIFTS AND CONFLICTS OF INTEREST AND CONTROLS Financial controls exist to protect the rights of all Agility employees. Agility’s Code reflects the strong anti-corruption companies and shareholders, and Agility takes standards set by both the U.S. Foreign Corrupt them seriously. Practices Act (FCPA) and the UK Bribery Act. EMPLOYEE RIGHTS AND GOVERNMENT INVESTIGATIONS, RECORD KEEPING WORKING CONDITIONS CONTROLS AND SANCTION AND REPORTING Respect for one another and a high regard for the Agility’s Code guides employees on how to Agility’s Code mandates that company records rights of employees is one hallmark of an ethical comply with a government investigation and must be administered strictly in accordance with company culture. Agility maintains standards international regulations, and how to manage applicable laws and company policy. Agility designed to foster fair working conditions for all. the impact of US, UN and EU sanctions on the preserves all records required to be kept by law, Agility expressly forbids discrimination, business, including a detailed screening retains them for as long as required and discloses harassment, forced labor and child labor. mechanism for compliance with multilateral and them to authorities when appropriate. unilateral economic sanctions. Shared Prosperity through Sustainability 59 UPHOLDING ETHICAL BUSINESS PRACTICES Ethics & Compliance ETHICS TRAINING Agility’s online ethics training program began new courses must be added. In some in 2006, and currently includes 11 courses countries, we extend our courses to third-party offered in six languages. This program reaches providers to make sure our partners operate all computer-based Agility employees. To reach according to the same standard. our non-office staff, Agility is presently piloting in-person trainings in a classroom setting for Since 2011, Agility employees have taken over our basic comprehensive course on the Code 165,000 courses, including over 63,000 taken of Ethics. between 2016 and 2018. The number of courses taken in 2018 almost doubled from 2017 due to Needs and requirements vary across Agility’s the introduction of three new courses, Conflict of businesses and even within business units. Interest, Insider Trading, and Global Data Our Ethics team works with individual business Protection. Together, these three courses account managers to determine which of our courses for almost 60% of all courses taken. meet the needs of which employees, and if INVESTIGATIONS AND CONSEQUENCES Paramount for our ethics and compliance team. They work with country management program is our policy of Protection for to implement the recommended actions Complainants. We protect the anonymity of all arising from an investigation and to prevent employees that report a concern in good faith. further incidents. All complainants are protected from retaliation in any form. If an agreement on actions to be taken cannot be made, the investigators escalate the Incidents reported are investigated and information to senior management for review documented by the Ethics and Compliance and implementation of recommended actions. LEGAL ISSUES AND RESPONSE In November 2009, the U.S. Department of food and related materials to U.S. troops in an outstanding contract claims related to the Justice made public an indictment alleging active war zone. food-supply contracts. The agreement will that Agility overcharged and committed resolve all legal issues related to these fraud in connection with its Prime Vendor In the criminal portion of the case, Agility contracts for Agility employees, directors, contracts to supply food to U.S. troops and agreed to plead to a misdemeanor in officers and affiliates. Under the terms of the contractors in Iraq and Kuwait. In May of connection with a single invoice valued at settlement, the U.S. government removed 2017, Agility announced a global settlement $551. In the parallel civil proceedings of the Agility and all of its subsidiaries and affiliates in the case, affirming its view that Agility acted case, the company agreed to pay $95 million in from the list of suspended companies. transparently and responsibly as it carried out cash. In addition, Agility and the U.S. the extraordinarily complex mission to deliver government agreed to mutual releases of all Shared Prosperity through Sustainability 60 ! #$%&'#&(' % • ! #$%!&# '(%!)%#$*$*+!,(%!-#'(%!./00-$1%. !$*!)21!3$44-1!5#.)! • ! 6*+($*+!0%(+%#7!(,!8(-/*)#%9!: !0#%)9!2/7#*!%$+2).!#/4$).!$*! %4 171%+$*+!7#%;1).!! On the • ! &(*+ <)1%7!54/=#)$(*!>#%)*1%.2$0.!?$)2!@A6.! ,(%!./.)#$*14!$70#=)! ! horizon GOVERNANCE Agility aims to continuously improve sustainability • Signatory of the United National Global Compact performance. Here’s a glimpse of what’s planned • Commitment to adopt science-based targets and already underway for 2019. • Establishment of Board Sustainability Committee PEOPLE SUSTAINABLE DEVELOPMENT • Fair Labor training for labor suppliers in • SmartView supplier management app the Middle East implemented in all markets • Ongoing program of voluntary third-party • 116,000 m2 of new warehousing in ENVIRONMENT human rights audits in emerging markets Africa in 2019 • Emissions reductions pilots and • Long-term Education Partnerships with • Continued support for SMEs in investments in key markets NGOs for sustained impact emerging markets through Shipa.com • 100% renewable energy sourcing for Agility Spain • Solar panels on warehouses in Singapore On the Horizon 61 Annex I. Material Risks and Opportunities AGILITY’S MATERIAL TOPICS Agility has identified the risks and opportunities Climate-related Financial Disclosures (July climate-related risks, and to contribute to a for our business and our stakeholders 2017). The Task Force on Climate-related low-carbon future. associated with each of our material topics Financial Disclosures (TCFD) is a private sectoracross five categories. The tables below explain led initiative that creates consistent and The codes that we use for each risk or these risks and opportunities, as well as our coherent guidelines for businesses to assess opportunity correspond to the types of risk current approach to managing them. their climate-related risks and communicate indicated in the table at the bottom of the them to their investors. By using these page. For more information on these risks, To structure our thinking, we have used the risk categories, we demonstrate our willingness to please do visit the website for the TCFD. and opportunity categories from the Final be part of the global network of companies Report: Recommendations of the Task Force on committed to understanding and disclosing (T) Transition Risks (P) Physical Risks (O) Opportunities (T:P) Policy and Legal (T:M) Market (P:A) Acute (O:RE) Resource Efficiency (O:PS) Products/Services (O:R) Resilience (T:T) Technology (T:R) Reputation (P:C) Chronic (O:E) Energy Source (O:M) Markets Agility’s Material Topics: Environmental Description Impacts, Risks and Opportunities for Agility and its Stakeholders Management Approach Climate 1. Risk that rising temperatures in many emerging markets will lead to 1. Reduce emissions through energy efficiency measures, as Change increased demand for electricity, straining distribution infrastructure, well as through sourcing and generation of renewable energy and GHG which would lead to service disruptions and potentially higher costs. (P:C) for both new builds and existing operations. Emissions 2. Risk that countries adopt pro-climate policies that increase costs for 2. Monitor how climate-friendly policies progress in markets our business or limit our operations. (T:P) with full operations. 3. Risk that customers expect lowand zero-emissions solutions but are 3. Engage customers on sustainability and proactively identify not willing to pay for them, which would increase our costs. (T:M) collaborative opportunities to reduce emissions. Air Pollution 1. Risk that air quality regulations requiring cleaning technologies 1. Raise awareness and educate our customers on emerging increase carrier prices, increasing prices for our customers. (T:P) regulations to help them to prepare. 2. Risk that air pollution negatively affects employee health and well-being. 2. Engage in industry discussions on innovations to address SOx, NOx and particulate matter. 3. Risk that poor air quality in key markets deters or slows economic development. (P:C) Sustainable 1. Risk that our current refrigeration systems may become obsolete as 1. Raise awareness internally about the Kigali Agreement to ensure Refrigeration countries implement policies in line with the Kigali Agreement. (T:P) that operations and procurement teams understand the risk. 2. Opportunity to pioneer by leading in the demand for clean cooling 2. Explore natural refrigerant options with low global warming solutions, particularly in the Middle East region. (O:P) potential as upgrades are needed. Extreme 1. Risk that increasingly frequent disruption of supply chains impacts our 1. Collaborate with other logistics partners on the Logistics Weather performance and increases costs; insurance costs increase; our employees, Emergency Team (LET) of the World Food Programme to respond Events customers and communities, which may lead to loss of life and property. (P:A) to disasters and conduct preparedness activities, building our own capabilities as well as our partners’ ability to respond. 2. Opportunity to support humanitarian partners in disaster response, building experience to improve our resilience in the face of disruptions to our own operations. (O:RE) Material Waste 1. Risk that governments introduce extended producer responsibility 1. Measure and report materials usage to identify how and legislation, leading our customers to require circular solutions and ask where to reduce. for waste management. (T:P) 2. Offer waste-reduction solutions to our customers. Material Risks and Opportunities 63 Agility’s Material Topics: Social Description Impacts, Risks and Opportunities for Agility and its Stakeholders Management Approach Human Rights 1. Risk that human rights violations are uncovered in our 1. Create a culture of respect for human rights through an supply chain. (T:R) industry-leading global human rights policy, training and assessment program. 2. Opportunity to proactively pioneer best practices in our industry and develop a supplier training program that sets a standard for our industry. (O:PS) Refugees 1. Risk that vulnerable refugee populations in countries where we 1. Fundraise and provide corporate support for UNHCR. operate face years of exclusion from education and decent work, living in economically precarious situations. (P:C) 2. Support refugee entrepreneurship through participation in MIT Innovate for Refugees. 2. Opportunity to encourage entrepreneurship among refugee populations. (O:R) Road Safety 1. Risk that individuals in our communities face unnecessary danger 1. Build a Target Zero culture and help raise the safety on a daily basis. (P:C) performance of our suppliers. 2. Risk that one of our employees or shipments could be involved in a road accident. (P:A) Women 1. Risk that our efforts are not sufficient to meet the social expectations 1. Monitor our gender performance and benchmark against Empowerment for gender equality programs and transparent reporting. (T:T; T:R) others in our industry. 2. Risk that we do not secure the best talent in the industry if we are 2. Research women’s empowerment programs in the industry not inclusive in our recruitment and retention approach. (T:R) to determine what could work for us. 3. Opportunity to pioneer women's empowerment in emerging markets and/or the logistics industry. (O:R) Quality 1. Risk that poor education attainment leads to youth 1. Support quality education through our extensive community Education unemployment, limiting economic opportunity in our communities investment program. and slowing economic development. (P:C) 2. Opportunity to contribute to education to improve economic opportunity and our business engagement in the communities where we work. (O:R) Diversity 1. Risk that we struggle to secure the best talent in the industry 1. Aim to hire and train management locally. & Inclusion if we do not do enough to recruit and maintain talent from 2. Leadership development programs that set our senior diverse groups. (T:R) management at the country level on a path to regional or global leadership roles. 2. Risk that we miss out on diverse perspectives that could unlock opportunities to improve our performance. (T:M) Humanitarian 1. Risk of increased morbidity and mortality rates due to natural or 1. Participate in the Logistics Emergency Team Assistance man-made disasters in communities where we work. (P:A; P:C) (LET) to provide pro bono logistics services for major humanitarian emergencies. 2. Opportunity to save lives by offering logistics support during emergencies. (O:R) 3. Opportunity to build the adaptability and agility of our teams and communities to respond in a crisis. (O:R) (T) Transition Risks (P) Physical Risks (O) Opportunities (T:P) Policy and Legal (T:M) Market (P:A) Acute (O:RE) Resource Efficiency (O:PS) Products/Services (O:R) Resilience (T:T) Technology (T:R) Reputation (P:C) Chronic (O:E) Energy Source (O:M) Markets Material Risks and Opportunities 64 Agility’s Material Topics: Governance Description Impacts, Risks and Opportunities for Agility and its Stakeholders Management Approach Compliance 1. Risk of non-compliance with applicable laws and regulations at the 1. Establish a global compliance organization that administers global, country and local levels that would endanger business and and enforces the compliance program. lead to fines. (T:P; T:R) 2. Establish mandatory global training program to provide 2. Risk of losing business with customers and financial institutions if training to employees, key customers, suppliers and other we are non-compliant for their shipments. (T:P; T:R) external third parties. Training covers topics including anti-corruption, international trade controls and sanctions, antitrust, conflicts of interest, and other relevant compliance subjects. 3. Establish key policies and procedures to define baseline expectations for how Agility business is conducted in accordance with applicable company policies and government regulations. 4. Perform audits to ensure adherence to applicable company and governmental regulatory and statutory requirements. 5. Establish an anonymous global reporting process for employees and third parties to raise complianceand ethics-related concerns. Supplier 1. Non-compliance of a supplier exposes our business and customers 1. Use standard operating procedures to qualify the capabilities Management/ to reputational risk and could lead to fines. (T:P; T:R) and credentials of suppliers and third parties. Require suppliers Procurement and third parties to acknowledge and agree to adhere to Agility’s Code of Conduct. 2. Conduct audits of key suppliers and third parties to check and confirm adherence to applicable national and international guidelines. Corruption 1. Risk of improper payments that violate applicable laws, resulting in 1. See 'Compliance' above. fines and penalties. (T:P; T:M) 2. Establish and continuously improve existing risk-based third 2. Risk of shipment delays and lost cargo as retaliation for Agility’s party due diligence processes to minimize risk when conducting refusal to pay bribes. (T:M; P:A) business via external third parties and ensure understanding of Agility’s compliance-related expectations. 3. Risk that continued corruption erodes trust in emerging markets, slowing growth, increasing costs to trade and slowing 3. Establish key anti-corruption policies and procedures transport times. (P:C) designed to prevent improper payments (including improper payments made by third parties) and create effective internal controls and reporting practices. (T) Transition Risks (P) Physical Risks (O) Opportunities (T:P) Policy and Legal (T:M) Market (P:A) Acute (O:RE) Resource Efficiency (O:PS) Products/Services (O:R) Resilience (T:T) Technology (T:R) Reputation (P:C) Chronic (O:E) Energy Source (O:M) Markets Material Risks and Opportunities 65 Agility’s Material Topics: Economic Description Impacts, Risks and Opportunities for Agility and its Stakeholders Management Approach SMEs and 1. Risk that traders struggle to affordably access global value chains, 1. Build logistics parks in emerging markets, Sustainable losing out on opportunities to grow. (T:M) offering small businesses the opportunity to access Trade world-class infrastructure to grow their business. 2. Invest in Shipa, a digital logistics platform that connects small businesses to the global economy. Emerging 1. Opportunity to have the first-mover advantage by quickly building 1. Build world-class warehouses and light industrial facilities Markets the foundation for logistics infrastructure and services in high-potenand commercialize offerings to address local market financing Growth tial, underserved emerging markets. (O:PS) and affordability constraints. Changing 1. Risk that our current workforce cannot adapt to the demands of our 1. Provide employee training to build digital skills and activity Workforce changing operating context. (T:M) of existing workforce. Expectations 2. Opportunity to bring in employees that think differently, design 2. Aim to recruit employees with emphasis on agility and new business models and transform the business for success in a willingness to learn and adapt. high-tech world. (O:PS) Free 1. Risk that increased protectionism and a weak international trade 1. Provide training for relevant employees on compliance with Trade system will increase the volatility and instability of trade rules and global trade rules and sanctions. relationships, increasing the complexity and cost of trade. (T:P; T:M) 2. Advocate for fair and inclusive trade via partnerships with the World Economic Forum, including the Global Alliance on Trade. (T) Transition Risks (P) Physical Risks (O) Opportunities (T:P) Policy and Legal (T:M) Market (P:A) Acute (O:RE) Resource Efficiency (O:PS) Products/Services (O:R) Resilience (T:T) Technology (T:R) Reputation (P:C) Chronic (O:E) Energy Source (O:M) Markets Material Risks and Opportunities 66 Agility’s Material Topics: Technology Description Impacts, Risks and Opportunities for Agility and its Stakeholders Management Approach Big Data 1. Opportunities to take advantage of data to optimize performance 1. Agility’s digital transformation is underway, with the and improve real-time decision making. (O:PS) introduction of new digital processes and products, including the introduction of a global operating platform built on 2. Risk that new tech start-ups and innovative incumbents will cutting-edge technology, and the introduction of Shipa.com, a introduce new business models that disrupt logistics and erode our digital logistics platform with freight forwarding, e-commerce customer base before we can adapt. (T:T) and last mile solutions. 2. Agility Ventures invests in start-ups, reshaping the supply chain. 3. Agility’s partnership with MIT Media Labs helps the company stay close to some of the most innovative thinking around technology in the world today. Automation 1. Opportunity to improve efficiency and save costs from upgrading 1. Agility’s digital transformation efforts are moving the our automated processes and products. (O:RE) company to a system-based approach to every aspect of work. 2. Risk that the pace of our continuous automation is not fast 2. Next-level training provides employees with the skills to enough, which could lead us to lose competitive advantage. (T:T) identify opportunities and automate processes independently. 3. Risk to existing jobs if employees are unable to adapt to 3. Train employees on new systems and skillsets to run them. new approaches. (T:T) Data 1. Risk that a data breach or cyber attack compromises our systems 1. Continuously evaluate the latest threat. Deploy and update Security & leading to financial losses and requiring time to recover. tools and technologies to address and mute threats. Active Privacy (T:T; T:M; T:R; P:A) monitoring for response within minutes. Internet of 1. Opportunity to improve efficiency and accuracy of data collection, 1. Provide an unprecedented level of customer service by Things (IoT) improving real-time decision making. (O:PS) tracking and monitoring consignments in real time. Provide added value by leveraging data to provide predictive analysis. 2. Risk that hacking of devices may lead to data manipulation. (P:C) 2. Identify and implement IoT-based solutions to meet customer requirements and expectations. Circular 1. Opportunity to generate value from common waste materials 1. Begin to identify and manage largest waste streams that Economy (pallets, plastic, etc.). (O:PS) could be reused or upcycled. 2. Opportunity to develop circular logistics solutions for customers 2. Engage with customers about sustainability, including the that would like to harness waste streams or implement circular possibility to work together to develop circular solutions. supply chain structures to limit their environmental impact. (O:PS) Energy 1. Opportunity to reduce emissions, save on costs and 1. Identify markets where renewable energy sourcing and Transformation improve our reputation through the generation and sourcing generation are viable and commercially attractive. of renewable energy. (O:E) (T) Transition Risks (P) Physical Risks (O) Opportunities (T:P) Policy and Legal (T:M) Market (P:A) Acute (O:RE) Resource Efficiency (O:PS) Products/Services (O:R) Resilience (T:T) Technology (T:R) Reputation (P:C) Chronic (O:E) Energy Source (O:M) Markets Material Risks and Opportunities 67 Annex II. Sustainability Data Table Agility Sustainability Data 2016 2017 2018 Group Financial Performance (in millions of Kuwaiti Dinars) Revenue 928 1,062 1,550 Net Revenue 429 470 498 Net Revenue Margin 35% 33% 32% EBITDA 115 135 155 EBITDA Margin 7% 7% 10% Net Income 59 69 81 Net Income Margin 5% 5% 5% Total Assets 1,544 1,729 1,843 Total Liabilities 595 705 777 ROA 4% 4% 4% ROE 6% 7% 8% GIL Revenue 928 1,062 1,153 GIL EBITDA 32 34 36 Infrastructure Revenue 318 358 412 Infrastructure EBITDA 94 121 131 Group Economic Value (in millions of Kuwaiti Dinars) Direct Economic Value Generated 1,237,247 1,410,096 1,554,662 Revenues 1,234,047 1,407,033 1,550,190 Cash rec'd as interest on financial loans 843 570 893 Dividends rec'd from shareholdings 1,548 1,698 2,054 Cash rec'd from sale of assets 809 795 1,525 Economic Value Distributed 1,184,074 1,324,154 1,450,392 Cash Operating Costs 916,945 1,051,555 1,167,000 Salaries & Employee Benefits 210,744 222,688 227,673 Payments to Providers of Capital 46,650 38,958 45,533 Payments to Government 6,671 7,425 6,196 Community Investments 3,064 3,528 3,990 KFAS 618 717 764 NLST 1,546 1,793 2,121 Zakat 618 717 848 CSR Donations 282 301 257 Economic Value Retained 53,173 85,942 104,270 Sustainability Data Table 69 Agility Sustainability Data 2016 2017 2018 Health & Safety Total Recordable Incident Rate (TRIR) Rate at which injuries involving lost workdays, restricted workdays or medical treatment occur per 200,000 hours worked 0.21 0.17 0.09 Lost Workday Case Rate (LWCR) Rate at which injuries involving lost workdays occur per year per 200,000 hours worked 0.16 0.15 0.11 Fatalities 2 0 1 People Data Male employees Global 18,506 19,263 20,399 Female employees Global 5,468 5,679 6,194 % Female by Job Level Overall 23% 23% 23% Executive 10% 11% 12% Director 17% 19% 17% Management 31% 30% 30% Professional 27% 28% 29% Support 21% 21% 21% % Female by Region Middle East & Africa 10% 11% 11% Asia & the Pacific 30% 30% 29% Americas 51% 51% 51% Europe 41% 41% 42% Total Global Workforce 23,974 24,942 26,593 Part-time employees GLOBAL 396 384 391 Full-time employees GLOBAL 23,578 24,558 26,202 Employees in MEA 11,680 12,587 12,937 Employees in APAC 7,939 7,920 8,909 Employees in Europe 2,846 2,865 2,936 Employees in AMR 1,509 1,570 1,811 Total Female employees in MEA 1,128 1,343 1,428 Total Female employees in APAC 2,393 2,356 2,612 Total Female employees in Europe 1,173 1,184 1,237 Total Female employees in AMR 774 796 917 Total Male employees in MEA 10,552 11,244 11,509 Total Male employees in APAC 5,546 5,564 6,297 Total Male employees in AMR 735 774 894 Total Male employees in Europe 1,673 1,681 1,699 Sustainability Data Table 70 Agility Sustainability Data 2016 2017 2018 Total Global Workforce (continued) Employees under 30 6,010 6,009 6,527 Employees 30-50 13,518 14,281 15,085 Employees 50+ 2,781 2,929 3,126 Employees unassigned 1,665 1,723 1,855 Total of new hires FEMALE 1,236 1,414 1,640 Total of new hires MALE 3,740 3,847 4,407 Rate of new hires FEMALE 25% 27% 27% Rate of new hires MALE 75% 73% 73% New hires under 30 2,540 2,581 3,241 New hires 30-50 1,811 2,032 2,115 New hires 50+ 170 175 180 % of new hires under 30 56% 54% 59% % of new hires 30-50 40% 42% 38% % of new hires 50+ 4% 4% 3% New hires MEA 2,436 2,398 2,243 New hires APAC 1,686 1,879 2,675 New hires AMR 375 442 567 New hires Europe 479 542 562 % of new hires MEA 49% 46% 37% % of new hires APAC 34% 36% 44% % of new hires AMR 7% 8% 10% % of new hires Europe 10% 10% 9% Employees that have left MALE 3,232 3,324 3,294 Employees that have left FEMALE 1,261 1,312 1,173 % of employees that have left MALE 72% 72% 74% % of employees that have left FEMALE 28% 28% 26% Employees that have left under 30 1,796 1,892 1,737 Employees that have left 30-50 2,039 1,987 1,995 Employees that have left 50+ 304 353 372 % of employees that have left under 30 44% 45% 42% % of employees that have left 30-50 49% 47% 49% % of employees that have left 50+ 7% 8% 9% Total employees that have left MEA 1,693 1,835 1,965 Total employees that have left APAC 2,023 1,893 1,688 Total employees that have left AMR 321 377 328 Total employees that have left Europe 456 531 486 % of employees that have left MEA 38% 40% 44% % of employees that have left APAC 45% 41% 38% % of employees that have left AMR 7% 8% 7% % of employees that have left Europe 10% 11% 11% Sustainability Data Table 71 Agility Sustainability Data 2016 2017 2018 Resource Consumption Vehicle Fuel (in liters unless otherwise noted) 26,678,648 20,448,191 22,548,836 Diesel (100% Mineral) 19,360,021 18,620,548 19,073,449 Diesel (Biofuel Blend) 1,002,111 Gas Natural Gas (m3) 154,644 Gas CNG Compressed Natural Gas 987,260 795,999 335,839 Gasoline (100% Mineral) 6,331,367 1,031,643 1,982,793 Electricity (in kwh) 159,509,292 158,291,946 162,208,170 Water (in liters, underreported prior to 2018) 187,585,087 84,030,223 209,621,834 * Reported data on water usage for all 3 years represents early attempts at reporting for most countries. Figures are likely to be incomplete and inaccurate. In 2016 and 2017 respectively, 10 and 18 countries reported water usage. As with fuel and electricity data, we are continuously working to improve the accuracy and completeness of the data through regular and consistent reporting. A few new countries that started reporting in 2018 faithfully reported annual water data. CO2 Emissions (in metric tons) Direct Emissions 219,465 202,787 210,411 Scope 1 66,841 53,065 58,943 Scope 2 104,938 103,848 105,080 Scope 3 47,686 45,874 46,388 Emissions Intensity (Scope 1 & 2 Emissions/Revenue (KWD)) 0.19 0.15 0.11 Emissions from Electricity 138,454 137,382 138,936 Emissions from Fuel 81,011 65,417 71,475 Total 219,465 202,799 210,411 Outsourced Emissions 4,090,752 6,592,090 7,231,827 Air Freight 2,609,426 4,022,304 4,555,831 Ocean Freight 1,137,523 2,165,539 2,263,483 Road Freight 343,803 404,247 412,513 Total 4,090,752 6,592,090 7,231,827 * Direct emissions data reflects reported fuel and electricity usage in Agility's own operations, including both GIL and infrastructure owned and operated by Agility Logistics Parks. Reporting countries account for about 75% of our operational footprint (in 2018, this jumped to over 90%). We work every year to increase the number of operations that are reporting, as well as to incorporate emissions data from other Agility entities that do not otherwise produce a separate sustainability report. Our outsourced emissions are estimated from data on all shipments coordinated by Agility GIL, and should be taken as an at least estimate. That said, our most common source of error in emissions reporting is through double counting of shipments on different platforms as both import shipments and export shipments, so it is likely we are overreporting. All 2018 data is pending verification. Sustainability Data Table 72 Agility Sustainability Data 2016 2017 2018 Community investment projects Total projects 162 158 123 Asia 47 57 40 Americas 46 39 23 Europe 25 28 23 Middle East 36 34 37 Total # of community projects since 2006 1,487 1,645 1,768 Agility volunteers 3,709 4,128 2,273 People impacted 25,108 49,750 21,235 People educated with Agility support 10,309 10,929 15,036 Total # of people impacted since 2006 285,171 334,921 356,156 Donations and Fundraising (in USD) Total annual corporate and employee giving $5,020,240 $5,717,805 $4,904,368 Donations and funds raised by local offices $26,972 $29,463 $135,434 Direct Employee Donations (online/payroll) $31,178 $73,758 $23,931 Agility Corporate Giving $413,491 $412,010 $413,731 Kuwait Foundation for the Advancement of Sciences (KFAS) $2,044,300 $2,363,287 $2,528,721 Kuwait Zakat $2,044,300 $2,363,287 $2,806,748 DGS Paralyzed Veterans Golf Open $460,000 $476,000 $277,922 * Donations and funds raised by local offices are tracked through our Community Investments database, as are Direct Employee Donations. Direct Employee Donations account for both funds contributed directly by employee donations as well as those raised from friends and family or the general public by employees through events and other fundraising activities. Agility Corporate Giving is our corporate donations budget, which goes to support community investment projects, Global Education Drive and Earth Day events, often in the form of matching donations or grants to local offices. The KFAS and Zakat are required corporate contributions in Kuwait (these numbers are also available in our annual reports). The DGS Paralyzed Veterans Golf Open is a signature DGS charitable event in the United States that has been running since 2008. Where relevant, amounts in Kuwaiti Dinars have been converted to US dollars using the annual average exchange rate available here: https://www.ofx.com/en-us/forex-news/historical-exchange-rates /yearly-average-rates/. Ethics Courses Ethics courses completed 17,557 15,618 30,558 * Core ethics and anti-bribery courses are assigned to all computer-based employees. Additional courses are assigned depending on what is needed for an employee to know depending on the scope of their job. Sustainability Data Table 73 Annex III. GRI Index Key references: This report has been prepared in accordance with the GRI Standards: Core Option ORGANIZATIONAL PROFILE GRI Indicator Number Description & Response Where to find it 102-1 Name of the Organization About our Business pp. 2-7 Please also visit the Agility website and the 2018 Annual Report. 102-2 Activities, brands, products and services 102-3 Location of Organization's Headquarters 102-4 Location of operations 102-5 Ownership and legal form 102-6 Markets served 102-7 Scale of the organization 102-8 Information on employees and other workers pp. 22-24; 70-72 102-9 Supply Chain pp. 8-9 List of Air Freight Carriers List of Ocean Freight Carriers Within the next 2 years, our supplier management system will be able to give us a global view on the number of suppliers we engage by geography. 102-10 Significant changes to the organization (1) Increased infrastructure investment through ALP in emerging markets during the reporting period (2) Introduction of our digital logistics business, Shipa 102-11 Precautionary Approach Agility does not currently use the Precautionary Approach. Information on our approach to Risk Management may be found in our 2018 Annual Report (p. 27). 102-12 External initiatives (1) Agility is a strategic partner of the World Economic Forum (WEF) and is an active member in the WEF's social, environmental and anti-corruption initiatives. (2) Agility is a signatory of the Partnership Against Corruption Initiative (PACI). (3) DGS, GCC and Tristar are all signatories of the UN Global Compact. Agility Group became a signatory in 2019 (after the reporting period). 102-13 Membership of associations (1) Strategic partner of the World Economic Forum (WEF) see above (2) Logistics Emergency Team pp. 46-49 (3) Member of the BSR Clean Cargo Working Group p. 38 (4) Member of the Sustainable Air Freight Alliance (SAFA) p. 38 (5) Silver Member of the Asia Business Trade Association (ABTA) GRI Index 75 STRATEGY GRI Indicator Number Description & Response Where to find it 102-14 Statement from senior decision-maker p. 2 102-15 Key impacts, risks and opportunities pp. 62-67 ETHICS AND INTEGRITY 102-16 Values, principles, standards, and norms of behavior Please see the Agility Code of Business Conduct and Ethics. 102-17 Mechanisms for advice and concerns about ethics pp. 58-60 GOVERNANCE 102-18 Governance structure Please see the 2018 Annual Report and the Corporate Governance section of our website. 102-19 Delegating authority 102-20 Executive-level responsibility for economic, Our Chief Marketing Officer reports directly to the Board on sustainability environmental and social topics risks, opportunities and activities on an 'as needed' basis. 102-21 Consulting stakeholders on economic, pp. 11-12 environmental and social topics 102-22 Composition of the highest governance body and Please see the 2018 Annual Report and the Investor Relations its committees section of our website. 102-23 Chair of the highest governance body 102-24 Nominating and selecting the highest governance body Please see the 2018 Annual Report (p. 15) and the Investor Relations section of our website. 102-25 Conflicts of interest Agility ensures conflicts of interest are avoided and managed. Please see the 2018 Annual Report and the Investor Relations section of our website. 102-26 Role of highest governance body in setting purpose, The highest governance body sets the purpose, values and strategy of Agility. values and strategy For example, the human rights component of our sustainability program is a directive from our CEO. We report on progress on an annual basis. All sustainability goals are approved by the Board prior to public disclosure. 102-27 Collective knowledge of highest governance body The Sustainability team communicates risks and opportunities, activities and progress to the Board on a regular but ad hoc basis. In 2019, Agility will conduct a full stakeholder engagement and materiality exercise, as well as formalize a process of regular engagement with the Board Sustainability Committee (founded in 2019) on sustainability matters. For information on our prior stakeholder engagement exercise, please see our 2016 CSR report. 102-28 Evaluating the highest governance body’s performance Currently, our Board of Directors’ performance is not assessed based on environmental or social topics. 102-29 Identifying and managing economic, environmental The Board of Directors is presently not responsible for the identification and and social impacts management of environmental and social impacts, risks and opportunities. 102-30 Effectiveness of risk management processes The Board of Directors has a Risk Management Committee that is presently responsible for the identification and management of risks, including environmental and social risks. For this and more information, please refer to our 2018 Annual Report (p. 27). GRI Index 76 GOVERNANCE (con’t.) GRI Indicator Number Description & Response Where to find it 102-31 Review of economic, environmental and social topics p. 11 102-32 Highest governance body’s role in sustainability reporting All public sustainability communications are reviewed and approved by Executive Management prior to publication. 102-33 Communicating critical concerns Critical concerns, as they arise, are communicated directly to the Chairman and President of the Board by the Chief Marketing Officer. 102-34 Nature and total number of critical concerns Not disclosed 102-35 Remuneration policies There is currently no linkage between social and environmental performance and Executive/Board compensation. 102-36 Process for determining remuneration Board remuneration is determined by the Articles of Association of the company and in accordance with local commercial law. Please see our 2018 Annual Report. 102-37 Stakeholders’ involvement in remuneration Board remuneration is determined by the Articles of Association of the company and in accordance with local commercial law. Please see our 2018 Annual Report. 102-38 Annual total compensation ratio Not disclosed 102-39 Percentage increase in annual total compensation ratio Not disclosed STAKEHOLDER ENGAGEMENT 102-40 List of stakeholder groups p. 12 102-41 Collective bargaining agreements p. 17 102-42 Identifying and selecting stakeholders pp. 11-12 See also Material Topics pp. 62-67 102-43 Approach to stakeholder engagement 102-44 Key topics and concerns raised REPORTING PRACTICE 102-45 Entities included in the consolidated financial statements p. 7 102-46 Defining report content and topic boundaries Please see 'About this Report' on the back front cover. 102-47 List of material topics pp. 11; 62-67 102-48 Restatements of information None 102-49 Changes in reporting For the first time in this report, we recognize the contribution of our infrastructure investments and digital logistics programs to sustainable development, and specifically SDG #9 (pp. 50-57). This reflects increased emphasis on these programs in our core business strategy and increased integration of sustainability into our core business model. 102-50 Reporting period January 2016 to December 2018. We were delayed in releasing our report due to the completion of our sustainability microsite in a first step to transition to digital reporting. 102-51 Date of most recent report Released in 2016 covering 2014 and 2015 activities GRI Index 77 REPORTING PRACTICE (con’t.) GRI Indicator Number Description & Response Where to find it 102-52 Reporting cycle Please see 'About this Report' on the back front cover. 102-53 Contact point for questions regarding the report Please see 'About this Report' on the back front cover. 102-54 Claims of reporting in accordance with the GRI Standards Please see 'About this Report' on the back front cover. 102-55 GRI content index This is it. 102-56 External assurance Please see 'About this Report' on the back front cover. MANAGEMENT APPROACH 103-1 Explanation of the material topics and its boundary pp. 11; 62-67 103-2 The management approach and its components 103-3 Evaluation of the management approach ECONOMIC PERFORMANCE 201-1 Direct economic value generated and distributed p. 7 201-2 Financial implications and other risks and pp. 11; 62-67 opportunities due to climate change 201-3 Defined benefit plan obligations and other Not disclosed retirement plans 201-4 Financial assistance received from government None INDIRECT ECONOMIC IMPACTS 203-1 Infrastructure investments and services supported pp. 52-54 Please see the ALP website. 203-2 Significant indirect economic impacts Agility's local hiring and training strategy and infrastructure investments have positive economic impacts. Please find details on pp. 27-28; 50-67. ANTI-CORRUPTION 205-1 Operations assessed for risks related to corruption Agility carefully monitors our operations for risks related to corruption as part of our risk management process disclosed in our 2018 Annual Report. 205-2 Communication and training about anti-corruption pp. 58-60 policies and procedures Please refer to the (1) Agility Code of Business Ethics and Conduct (2) Agility Competition Compliance Policy 205-3 Confirmed incidents of corruption and actions taken Not disclosed 206-1 Legal actions for anti-competitive behavior, p. 60 anti-trust, and monopoly practices GRI Index 78 ENERGY GRI Indicator Number Description & Response Where to find it 302-1 Energy consumption within the organization p. 72 302-4 Reduction of energy consumption Measures implemented appear in case studies on pp. 40-45. WATER 303-1 Interactions with water as a shared resource Water usage is not a material issue for our operations. Some offices do report water usage, but it is not a significant proportion of total water usage. For renovations and new builds, we use low-use fixtures in bathrooms and kitchens. All of our operations comply with local laws regarding discharge of waste water. 303-2 Management of water discharge-related impacts 303-3 Water withdrawal 303-4 Water discharge 303-5 Water consumption p. 72 EMISSIONS 305-1 Direct (Scope 1) GHG emissions pp. 35, 40, 72 305-2 Energy indirect (Scope 2) GHG emissions p. 72 305-3 Other indirect (Scope 3) GHG emissions 305-4 GHG emissions intensity 305-5 Reduction of GHG emissions Measures implemented appear in case studies on pp. 40-45. EFFLUENTS AND WASTE 306-1 Water discharge by quality and destination Water is not a significant input or output of our business. ISO 14001: Environmental Management certificates cover 47% of our headcount. These environmental management systems include the safe management of waste water where relevant. 306-2 Waste by type and disposal method At this time, we are not able to comprehensively measure our waste by category across 100+ countries, though we are implementing measures to reduce waste. Please see p. 44. 306-3 Significant spills None 306-4 Transport of hazardous waste None GRI Index 79 ENVIRONMENTAL COMPLIANCE GRI Indicator Number Description & Response Where to find it 307-1 Non-compliance with environmental laws and regulations No known cases of non-compliance with environmental laws and regulations. 47% of our operations by headcount are compliant with ISO 14001: Environmental Management. 308-1 New suppliers that were screened using All new suppliers complete a questionnaire that includes questions about environmental criteria compliance with environmental regulations. Agility is currently rolling out a new supplier management tool to assess environmental performance at a deeper level, based on the regulatory context and supplier type. Please see p. 38. 308-2 Negative environmental impacts in the None reported over the period. supply chain, and actions taken EMPLOYMENT 401-1 New employee hires and employee turnover p. 71 OCCUPATIONAL HEALTH AND SAFETY 403-1 Occupational health and safety management system Agility's Target Zero Occupational Health and Safety program achieves industry-leading results. Please read about it on pp. 18-21. 403-2 Hazard identification, risk assessment, pp. 19-21 and incident investigation 403-4 Worker participation, consultation, and communication on occupational health and safety 403-5 Worker training on occupational health and safety 403-8 Workers covered by an occupational health In 2018, Agility APAC's Target Zero program was expanded to become a and safety management system global program covering all operations. 43% of our operations are covered by OHSAS 18001: Occupational Health and Safety. 403-9 Work-related injuries pp. 21, 70 403-10 Work-related ill health pp. 21, 70 TRAINING AND EDUCATION 404-1 Average hours of training per year per employee Hours of employee training vary greatly by job function, with much of it being demand-driven. All employees are required to undergo training that ensures they conduct themselves according to Agility's values, policies, and safety standards. 404-2 Programs for upgrading employee skills pp. 25-26 and transition assistance programs 404-3 Percentage of employees receiving regular All computer-based employees set annual goals and undergo annual performance and career development reviews performance reviews. FREEDOM OF ASSOCIATION AND COLLECTIVE BARGAINING 407-1 Operations and suppliers in which the right to freedom of pp. 14-17 association and collective bargaining may be at risk Through the Agility Fair Labor program, we identify and manage risks related to freedom of association, among other human rights risks. CHILD LABOR 408-1 Operations and suppliers at significant risk pp. 14-17 for incidents of child labor Through the Agility Fair Labor program, we identify and manage risks related to child labor, among other human rights risks. GRI Index 80 FORCED OR COMPULSORY LABOR GRI Indicator Number Description & Response Where to find it 409-1 Operations and suppliers at significant risk for pp. 14-17 incidents of forced or compulsory labor Through the Agility Fair Labor program, we conduct annual assessments of forced labor risk in all of our operations, assessing based on the scale of operations, the presence of subcontracted or migrant workers, and the regulatory context. We monitor this risk closely, work with management to correct any areas of non-compliance with our Global Human Rights policy, and conduct third-party social audits every 2 years in our largest emerging markets operations in the Middle East and Asia. SECURITY PRACTICES 410-1 Security personnel trained in human pp. 14-17 rights policies or procedures Human rights training covers all employees, including security personnel. RIGHTS OF INDIGENOUS PEOPLES 411-1 Incidents of violations involving rights No incidents reported. This is included in our Global Human Rights Policy, of indigenous peoples but is not a significant risk for our business. HUMAN RIGHTS ASSESSMENT 412-1 Operations that have been subject to human rights pp. 14-17 reviews or impact assessments We aim for our largest operations in the Middle East and Asia to undergo third-party human rights audits every 2 years. 412-2 Employee training on human rights policies or procedures pp. 14-17 Agility has an extensive human rights training program which currently covers 69% of headcount. 412-3 Significant investment agreements and contracts Our largest investments and operations in the Middle East are screened that include human rights clauses or that for compliance with Agility's Global Human Rights Policy. Agility works underwent human rights screening with project teams to conduct ongoing monitoring of labor practices where subcontracted labor is used, and identify and correct any practices that are not compliant with our policies. For GIL, our global logistics business, we aim for all supplier contracts to include standard language enforcing our policies by 2025. LOCAL COMMUNITIES 413-1 Operations with local community engagement, pp. 29-33 impact assessments, and development programs For more projects over the period, please see the Community Investments section of our website. 413-2 Operations with significant actual and potential Our primary impact on local communities is positive, due to our strategic negative impacts on local communities focus on local hiring and training. For examples, please see the case studies on pp. 27-28. SUPPLIER SOCIAL ASSESSMENT 414-1 New suppliers that were screened using social criteria 100% of new suppliers are screened using a questionnaire that includes questions on compliance with local labor law. We are currently working on a supplier management system that will include a more rigorous assessment of human rights performance and labor practices depending on the regulatory context. 414-2 Negative social impacts in the supply Our greatest human rights risk comes from migrant workers in the Middle chain and actions taken East. We ensure compliance through background checks of all suppliers and ongoing monitoring, including accommodation site visits and employee interviews to check for recruitment fees and passport withholding. We aim to begin a supplier training program in the next 2 years. GRI Index 81 POLITICAL CONTRIBUTIONS GRI Indicator Number Description & Response Where to find it 415-1 Political contributions Agility does not contribute to any political parties. CUSTOMER PRIVACY 418-1 Substantiated complaints concerning breaches of No reported issues in this area. In 2018, we required all employees that customer privacy and losses of customer data handle customer data to take a GDPR course. Please refer to the Agility Privacy Policy. SOCIOECONOMIC COMPLIANCE 419-1 Non-compliance with laws and regulations None reported during the period. in the social and economic area GRI Index 82 www.agility.com 2017 – 2019 Sustainability Data 2017 – 2019 Sustainability Data Notes In the Fall of 2019, Agility released its 2019 Sustainability Report: Values into Action, which includes sustainability program information and performance data for 2016 2018. This Sustainability Data Disclosure includes data for 2017 2019. For updated information on our sustainability programs and performance, our website is the best source of information. About About Agility’s Sustainability Disclosure Data and information presented here covers data and activities from Agility branded organizations for 2017 2019. Data and statistics on human rights, gender and age breakdown, health and safety, and emissions apply only to Agility’s core commercial business division, Global Integrated Logistics (GIL) unless otherwise stated. Agility aims to comprehensively include all subsidiary companies, each independently managed with their own boards and trademarks, in its sustainability reporting within the next 4 years. Qualitative information can be found on our website, or in our most recent sustainability report. We have made every effort to ensure the accuracy of information presented, and we are continuously working to improve the quality of the data and data management systems to capture and report on non-financial information. The limitations of the data, measurement techniques and basis of calculation are described as relevant in the footnotes to the data tables. We have not pursued external validation for our sustainability data. All information presented has been reviewed by relevant subject matter experts within Agility and signed off by the senior management team. This report contains Standard Disclosures from the GRI Sustainability Reporting Guidelines (G4). We welcome your feedback and questions. To contact Agility’s sustainability team, please email us at csr@agility.com. ABOUT OUR BUSINESS 2017 – 2019 Sustainability Data Agility Sustainability Data 2017 2018 2019* Group Financial Performance (in millions of Kuwaiti Dinars) Revenue 1,062 1,550 1,579 Net Revenue 470 498 531 Net Revenue Margin 33% 32% 34% EBITDA 135 155 193 EBITDA Margin 7% 10% 12% Net Income 69 81 87 Net Income Margin 5% 5% 5% Total Assets 1,729 1,843 2,082 Total Liabilities 705 777 933 ROA 4% 4% 4% ROE 7% 8% 8% GIL Revenue 1,062 1,153 1,125 GIL EBITDA 34 36 59 Infrastructure Revenue 358 412 470 Infrastructure EBITDA 121 131 135 *Includes IFRS impact Group Economic Value (in thousands of Kuwaiti Dinars) Direct Economic Value Generated 1,410,096 1,554,662 1,587,203 Revenues 1,407,033 1,550,190 1,579,563 Cash rec'd as interest on financial loans 570 893 1,086 Dividends rec'd from shareholdings 1,698 2,054 2,006 Cash rec'd from sale of assets 795 1,525 4,548 Economic Value Distributed 1,324,154 1,450,392 1,587,338 Cash Operating Costs 1,051,555 1,167,000 1,147,471 Salaries & Employee Benefits 222,688 227,673 236,501 Payments to Providers of Capital 38,958 45,533 52,080 Payments to Government 7,425 6,196 9,389 Community Investments 3,528 3,990 3,994 KFAS 717 764 817 NLST 1,793 2,121 2,269 Zakat 717 848 908 CSR Donations 301 257 242 Economic Value Retained 85,942 104,270 137,768 2017 – 2019 Sustainability Data Agility Sustainability Data 2017 2018 2019 Health & Safety (Agility GIL) Total Recordable Incident Rate (TRIR) Rate at which injuries involving lost workdays, restricted workdays or medical treatment occur per 200,000 hours worked 0.17 0.11 0.12 Lost Workday Case Rate (LWCR) Rate at which injuries involving lost workdays occur per year per 200,000 hours worked 0.15 0.09 0.05 Fatalities 0 1 1 People Data Male employees Global 19,263 20,399 24,906 Female employees Global 5,679 6,194 6,729 % Female by Job Level (Agility GIL) Overall 23% 23% 21% Executive 11% 12% 10% Director 19% 17% 18% Management 30% 30% 28% Professional 28% 29% 29% Support 21% 21% 19% % Female by Region (Agility GIL) Middle East & Africa 11% 11% 11% Asia & the Pacific 30% 29% 29% Americas 60% 58% 51% Europe 32% 35% 42% Total Global Workforce 24,942 26,593 26,593 Part-Time employees GLOBAL 384 391 370 Full-Time employees GLOBAL 24,558 26,202 31,265 Employees in MEA 12,587 12,937 17,718 Employees in APAC 7,920 8,909 9,077 Employees in AMR 1,570 1,811 1,880 Employees in EUR 2,865 2,936 2,960 Total Female employees in MEA 1,343 1,428 1,918 Total Female employees in APAC 2,356 2,612 2,597 Total Female employees in AMR 796 917 962 Total Female employees in EUR 1,184 1,237 1,252 Total Male employees in MEA 11,244 11,509 15,800 Total Male employees in APAC 5,564 6,297 6,480 Total Male employees in AMR 774 894 918 Total Male employees in EUR 1,681 1,699 1,708 2017 – 2019 Sustainability Data Agility Sustainability Data 2017 2018 2019 Age Breakdown (Agility GIL) Employees under 30 6,009 6,527 8,672 Employees 30-50 14,281 15,085 17,800 Employees 50+ 2,929 3,126 3,526 Employees unassigned 1,723 1,855 1,637 New Hires Total of new hires FEMALE 1,414 1,640 1,682 Total of new hires MALE 3,847 4,407 5,822 % of new hires FEMALE 27% 27% 22% % of new hires MALE 73% 73% 78% New hires under 30 2,581 3,241 4,196 New hires 30-50 2,032 2,115 2,697 New hires 50+ 175 180 309 % of new hires under 30 54% 59% 58% % of new hires 30-50 42% 38% 38% % of new hires 50+ 4% 3% 4% New hires in MEA 2,398 2,243 4,051 New hires in APAC 1,879 2,675 2,421 New hires in AMR 442 567 512 New hires in EUR 542 562 520 % of new hires in MEA 46% 37% 54% % of new hires in APAC 36% 44% 32% % of new hires in AMR 8% 10% 7% % of new hires in EUR 10% 9% 7% Employees That Left Employees that left MALE 3,324 3,294 4,787 Employees that left FEMALE 1,312 1,173 1,494 % of employees that left MALE 72% 74% 76% % of employees that left FEMALE 28% 26% 24% Employees that left under 30 1,892 1,737 2,670 Employees that left 30-50 1,987 1,995 2,850 Employees that left 50+ 353 372 441 % of employees that left under 30 45% 42% 45% % of employees that left 30-50 47% 49% 48% % of employees that left 50+ 8% 9% 7% Total employees that left MEA 1,835 1,965 3,135 Total employees that left APAC 1,893 1,688 2,263 Total employees that left AMR 377 328 410 Total employees that left EUR 531 486 473 % of employees that left MEA 40% 44% 50% % of employees that left APAC 41% 38% 36% % of employees that left AMR 8% 7% 6% % of employees that left EUR 11% 11% 8% 2017 – 2019 Sustainability Data Agility Sustainability Data 2017 2018 2019 Resource Consumption Vehicle Fuel (in liters, unless otherwise noted) Diesel (100% Mineral) 18,620,548 19,073,449 23,997,862 Diesel (Biofuel Blend) 1,002,111 291,368 District Heat & Steam (in Gigajoules) 270 Fuel Oil 1,500 4,057 Gas Natural Gas (m3) 154,644 315,641 Gas Natural Gas (kwh) 164,102 Gas CNG Compressed Natural Gas (kilograms) 795,999 335,839 150,355 Gas LPG Liquified Petroleum Gas 238 Gasoline (100% Mineral) 1,031,643 1,982,793 804,282 Gasoline (Biofuel Blend) 15,059 Electricity (in kwh) 158,291,946 162,208,170 147,767,857 Water (in liters) 84,030,223 209,621,834 1,187,444,743 CO2 Emissions (in metric tons) Direct Emissions 202,787 210,411 208,174 Scope 1 53,065 58,943 66,471 Scope 2 103,848 105,080 98,015 Scope 3 45,874 46,388 43,688 Emissions Intensity (Scope 1 & 2 Emissions/Revenue (KWD)) 0.15 0.11 0.10 Emissions from Electricity 137,382 138,936 126,230 Emissions from Fuel 65,417 71,475 81,944 Outsourced Emissions 6,592,090 7,231,827 6,180,518 Air Freight 4,022,304 4,555,831 3,570,659 Ocean Freight 2,165,539 2,263,483 2,213,859 Road Freight 404,247 412,513 395,999 A Note on Agility’s Resource Consumption and Emissions Data In 2019, Agility collected operationally controlled resource consumption data from 50+ Agility Global Integrated Logistics (GIL) country operations, representing an estimated 94% of total GIL headcount. GIL currently represents about 70% of Agility’s revenue. We believe GIL represents more than 75% of our operationally controlled carbon footprint. Tristar, another Agility entity, reports emissions separately in its own Tristar Sustainability Report. The remaining Agility entities, the infrastructure subsidiaries, are not currently collecting resource consumption data, though we expect to have baseline data for the largest subsidiary, Agility Logistics Parks (ALP) within the next 2 years. For GIL resource consumption and direct emissions data, we work continuously to increase the number of country-operations that are reporting, as well as the accuracy and regularity of this data. However, our operations are still learning. In 2019, reported data for both electricity and fuel usage fluctuated by more than 20% in some countries. Through verification exercises with those countries, we were able to identify the source of error, or the business reason for year-on-year inconsistencies for most entries. Based on our verification exercises, we believe some of our largest operations in the Middle East may have erroneously double reported electricity usage prior to 2019. This double reporting is related to warehouses that are owned by Agility but leased to customers who actually control the resources consumed in the warehouse operations. Therefore, these warehouses are not under our operational control. But for all years prior to 2019, our operations teams erroneously included energy consumption information related to these warehouses. This error has led to a decrease in reported electricity usage in affected operations, first in 2018 and then again, in 2019. This decrease has been largely offset by newly reported electricity consumption from countries reporting for the first time in 2018 and 2019. Our outsourced emissions are estimated from data on all shipments coordinated by Agility GIL, and should be taken as an at least estimate. The methodology used to calculate these emissions has been granted limited assurance by Carbon Trust. Agility is not involved in manufacturing or similar industrial processes that require significant water consumption. However, we try to report on our consumption nevertheless. For water consumption information, reported data for all 3 years represents early attempts at reporting for most countries. Data is incomplete and inaccurate. In 2017 (18), 2018 (26), and 2019 (28) the number of countries reporting water increased. Also, the quantity of water reported increased considerably for countries that reported in both 2017 and 2018, with an average year-on-year change of about 90%. Typically, a country making its first report will report resource usage at the country headquarters, and expand to all branches in the following two years, so this year-on-year increase may make sense. At the present time, waste and recycling data is not consistent or comprehensive enough for public reporting. Within the next two years, we aim to be able to internally verify resource consumption reports from more than 90% of GIL operations, as well as establish a baseline for ALP, which will allow us to revisit our emissions reduction targets and ensure they are ambitious. In the meantime, we continue to pursue measures to reduce our environmental impact. Please see our latest initiatives on our Greener Operations page For detailed inquiries into our resource consumption reporting process, please reach out to csr@agility.com. 2017 – 2019 Sustainability Data Agility Sustainability Data 2017 2018 2019 Community Investment Projects Total projects 158 123 78 Asia 57 40 21 Americas 39 23 16 Europe 28 23 15 Middle East 34 37 26 Total # of community projects since 2006 1,645 1,768 1,846 # of Agility volunteers 4,128 2,273 969 # of people impacted 49,750 21,235 44,102 # of people educated with Agility support 10,929 15,036 6,416 Total # of people impacted since 2006 334,921 356,156 400,258 Donations and Fundraising (in USD) Total annual corporate and employee giving $991,231 $851,018 $798,261 Donations and funds raised by local offices $29,463 $135,434 $87,520 Direct Employee Donations (online/payroll) $73,758 $23,931 $75,592 Agility Corporate Giving $412,010 $413,731 $295,807 DGS Paralyzed Veterans Golf Open $476,000 $277,922 $339,342 Donations and funds raised by local offices is tracked through our Community Investments database, as are Direct Employee Donations. Direct Employee Donations account for both funds contributed directly by employee donations as well as those raised from friends and family or the general public by employees through events and other fundraising activities. Agility Corporate Giving is our corporate donations budget, which goes to support community investment projects, global education drive and earth day events, often in the form of matching donations or grants to local offices. The DGS Paralyzed Veterans Golf Open is a signature DGS charitable event in the United States that has been running since 2008. Note that in 2019, the total reported here includes donations that were received after the event, and is higher than the total amount presented at the event itself. Where relevant, amounts in Kuwaiti Dinars have been convereted to US dollars using the annual average exchange rate available here: https://www.ofx.com/en-us/forex-news/historical-exchange-rates/yearly-average-rates/. Ethics Courses Ethics courses completed 15,618 30,558 52,141 Core ethics and anti-bribery courses are assigned to all computer-based employees. Additional courses are assigned depending on what is needed for an employee to know depending on the scope of their job. Fair Labor Program Targets 100% of countries identified their own human rights risks 96% 90% 100% of employees trained on human rights 69% 87% 100% of largest emerging market operations audited every 2 years 46% 85% For country-level fair labor data, please refer to sustainability.agility.com How we measure progress (1) 100% of countries understand human rights risks: 73 countries are required to conduct a self-assessment survey each year. Their human resources managers must undergo an annual training on the Fair Labor program. The denominator for this percentage is the headcount covered by the number of countries that have completed both the self-assessment and management training. (2) 100% of employees trained: For full-service operations in the Middle East, Africa and Asia, human resources managers are required to conduct an employee roll-out to ensure that all employees, including subcontractors, are aware of their rights and how to report a grievance. For operations in the Americas and Europe, human rights managers are trained on the program, and are required to incorporate the fair labor training video into onboarding. The percentage here is of total headcount in countries that fulfill the requirements based on their region and scale. (3) 100% of full-service emerging market operations audited: We assess human rights risk for our business on the basis of the scale of our operations, the presence of potentially vulnerable employees, including subcontracted or foreign migrant workers, and the country regulatory environment. We have identified 26 operations in the Middle East and Asia Pacific, reflected in the table above, for full participation in our Fair Labor program. For these countries, in addition to the first 2 steps, they are required to undergo a 3rd party social audit every 2 years. This audit must cover all aspects of the Fair Labor program. If no 3rd party audit is requested by a customer, the operations must voluntarily undergo an audit. 2017 – 2019 Sustainability Data Agility Humanitarian Operations & Preparedness Projects 2017 2019 Year Country 2019 Lebanon Fleet Management Training workshop for humanitariain logisticians 2019 Malaysia Delivery of donated relief materials for flood-affected families in Johor Bahru 2019 Bangladesh Customers Workshop in Cox's Bazaar with the Logistics Emergency Team* 2019 Mozambique Cyclon Idai Flood Relief Donation to hasten delivery of aid materials 2019 Bahamas Hurricane Dorian Relief Fundraising for World Food Kitchen 2019 South Sudan Agility Tristar warehouse and distribution safety training for humanitarian logisticians 2018 Bangladesh Preparedness activities with the Logistics Emergency Teams* 2018 Indonesia Preparedness activities with the Logistics Emergency Teams* 2018 Indonesia Donation of trucks and logistics coordination in Palu, Indonesia after a tsunami* 2018 Iraq Donation of customs clearance process documentation and management support* 2018 Lebanon Donation of humanitarian logistics/fleet operations training to Red Cross/Crescent* 2018 Nigeria Logistics Capacity Assessment for port clearance process and timelines (import constraint mapping) 2018 Somalia Donation of consultative services to help the World Food Programme build local market resilience 2017 Bangladesh Donation of a refrigerated shipping container to support temperature-controlled storage for the Rohingya refugee response* 2017 Bangladesh Flood relief distribution led by Bangladesh office to support 1,200 families on Dharabarshar char island 2017 Peru Support coordination of flood relief efforts, collection of more than 400 tons of relief supplies for distribution* 2017 Thailand Collection drive for donations and disaster relief logistics support by Thailand office for over 16,000 people in 12 flood-strick provinces 2017 Mexico 70 employees from Mexico office involved in emergency assistance activities and donation collection for Red Cross after massive earthquakes 2017 Somalia Somalia fuel Logistics Capacity Assessment completed by Tristar* 2017 USA Donation and transportation of aid materials from Chicago to Puerto Rico after hurricane 2017 USA Donations raised and disbursed by Houston office to help employees affected by Hurricane Harvey 2017 Yemen Donation of a refrigerated shipping container for temperature-controlled medication needed after a massive cholera outbreak* * Conducted with the Logistics Emergency Team (LET), comprised of four of the largest global logistics and transportation companies: Agility, UPS, Maersk and DP World. The LET collaborates to support the United Nations World Food Programme-led Logistics Cluster and its partners. The LET partners provide logistics support to humanitarian emergencies. They also work with the Logistics Cluster to assist local governments and NGOs with preparedness activities. www.agility.com
