Corporate Social Responsibility Progress Report 2019 INDEX Letter from the CEO 4 Sustainability and CSR Highlights 5 Össur at a Glance 6 Year in Review 8 About the Report 10 Main Global Compact Initiatives 11 Stakeholder Engagement 16 Environment 18 Social 22 Community Support 34 Governance 40 4 CSR REPORT 2019 Letter from the CEO We remain steadfast in our commitment to innovation, bringing new products and services We signed our commitment to the UN Global Compact initiative in 2011, the Women’s to the market which ultimately leads to improved mobility. Everything we do aims at Empowerment Principles in 2014 and now as we embark on a new decade, we have solidified improving the mobility of our customers, contributing to a better quality of life and increased our contribution to the Sustainable Development Goals. With this report, we reconfirm our independency. We believe we have a great responsibility towards our customers by providing understanding and commitment to responsible business conduct promoted by the United high quality products and engaging with decision makers in our industry to secure access Nations Global Compact and the UN Sustainable Development Goals. to these products. When we were evaluating our contribution to the UN Sustainable Development Goals during 2019 it was very apparent that our greatest impact is on Goal 3 – Good Health and Well Being. We have noticed that only about 30-40% of new lower limb amputees are fitted with a prosthetic solution and that the average age of this underserviced user group is above 65 years. We have therefore committed to a focus project supporting Goal 3, which will be to design prosthetic products that provide important functional and clinical support specifically for this user group. Accordingly, we will also engage with industry specialists and other stakeholders ​to secure access to more functional products for this demographic. In addition to Goal 3, we are also committed to contributing to Goal 5 on Gender Equality, Goal 12 on Responsible Consumption and Goal 13 on Climate Action. For years we have been working towards identifying our impact in these areas and initiating projects that help us minimize our negative impact as well as maximize our positive impact which we elaborate on in this report. Every day we are inspired by all the individuals that have overcome hurdles and challenging times in their lives. One of the responsibilities we are proud to accept is to be among the forces that can contribute towards changing the perception of people with disability. Over the past years we have seen such a positive change in mindset, as users are increasingly seen as the true heroes and role models they are. For us this is a great victory. It is equally exciting to see our products, end-users and employees receive global recognition in prestigious media Jon Sigurdsson outlets such as BBC, Forbes, TIME Magazine, Nature Medicine and more. At the heart of it Össur President and CEO all is a simple yet powerful message; Life Without Limitations. CSR REPORT 2019 5 SUSTAINABILITY AND CSR HIGHLIGHTS 63% 50% 51% 49% Waste Energy Consumed Gender Ratio Recycled From Renewable 51% Male Sources 49% Female 38% 0.6 4.5 of 5 Female Management Incident Rate Global Employee Female in management Incident rate per 100 FTEs Satisfaction positions 6 CSR REPORT 2019 Össur at a Glance We Improve People’s Mobility their joints, incur fractures to their ligaments or injure themselves resulting in movement Össur is a global leader in non-invasive orthopaedics; innovating, producing, and providing impairment. For years Össur has helped these individuals focus on new goals rather than advanced technological solutions within the prosthetics and bracing & supports market. limitations by offering comprehensive solutions that are designed with the needs of the user Our mission is to improve the mobility of our users, so they can live their Life Without top of mind. Limitations. World Class Innovation Capabilities Össur was founded in 1971 and has since grown through a healthy combination of organic Össur is a pioneer of advanced technology where our brand recognition is based on development and acquisitions in both prosthetics and bracing & supports. Today, Össur innovative and scientifically proven solutions that deliver effective clinical outcomes. By has a strong global position in the industry and key markets, being the second largest player listening and understanding people’s needs and pushing the boundaries of technology, worldwide in both segments and in a good position to leverage future growth opportunities. we continue to create some of the best products and services available in the fields of Össur has been listed since 1999, has operations in over 26 countries and about 3,500 FTEs. prosthetics and bracing & supports. Every year Össur invests the equivalent of 5% of sales in R&D efforts to work on new innovative products for the benefit of our users. In 2019 we Our Users Are at the Core of Everything We Do introduced more than 25 new products to the market. Individuals can be living with limb loss or limb difference for a variety of reasons. Vascular disease, diabetes, trauma and congenital defects are some of the more common reasons. There are also individuals who develop knee pain, are diagnosed with osteoarthritis in Americas EMEA APAC 48% 44 % 8% USD 328 million USD 304 million USD 55 million Organic growth: 3% Organic growth: 5% Organic growth: 19% FTEs: ~1300 FTEs: ~1500 FTEs: ~200 HQ FTEs: ~450 CSR REPORT 2019 7 Product Segments Össur operates within two market segments of the orthopaedic market: bracing & supports and prosthetics. Prosthetic products include artificial limbs and related products for amputees. Bracing & supports products are primarily used to support joints and other body parts, both for preventive and therapeutic purposes. 45% 55% of total sales of total sales Prosthetics Bracing & Supports Sub-segment User Profile Improving mobility Sub-segment User Profile Improving mobility Mechanical People living with lower Broad product offering Injury People recovering from Products stabilizing Products extremity amputation for lower extremity Solutions fractures, ligament injuries joints and improving prosthesis or need a post operative healing treatment Bionic People living with lower Advanced OA People living with Non surgical treatment Products and upper extremity microprocessor Solutions Osteoarthritis (OA) by unloading affected amputation controlled feet, knees, joint with braces hands and fingers 8 CSR REPORT 2019 Year in review March New Miami J Select fully launched RHEO KNEE XC wins the Red Dot Design Award in the Product Design category Össur Ambassador Jami Goldman Marseilles appears on The Doctors May January New Team Össur members featured in Japan Times Team Össur member Markus Rehm nominated for Laureus World Sportsperson of the Year Life Without Limitations new Össur global brand campaign Award launched RHEO KNEE XC wins the 2019 iF Design Össur featured in Outlook Magazine Award in the Medicine / Health category Dr. Liam Fox, Secretary of State for International Trade in UK and the New PROPRIO FOOT fully launched DIT Trade Commissioner Andrew Michel visit Össur Head Office Össur Ambassador Lauren Wasser featured on the TODAY Show April June Össur and the Danish National Olympic i-Limb featured on BBC news & Paralympic Committee announce partnership agreement First Ladies of Germany and Iceland visit Össur Head Office Team Össur Bebe Vio featured on the cover of WIRED Magazine in Italy Össur Ambassador Marko Cheseto featured in February Runner‘s World article Team Össur Sarah Reinertsen featured Össur Ambassador Dani Molina in Nike’s ‘Dream Crazier’ Ad featured in Men’s Health magazine Össur featured in THE TIMES feature on prosthetics and rehabilitation Össur Formfit featured in Business Trends Magazine CSR REPORT 2019 9 As pioneers of advanced technology, we believe in “Life Without Limitations“ and November Össur and Alfred Mann Foundation sign new 2019 was once again a year filled with agreement exciting milestones and achievements. Team Össur members excel at 2019 World Para Athletics Championships in Dubai Össur Ambassador and double below-knee July amputee Andrea Lanfri, climbed Putha Össur Formfit Pro Knee Quest Hhiumchuli in Nepal (7000m!) and Össur Formfit Pro Knee Flite introduced September Team Össur member Bebe Vio‘s Barbie unveiled Study featuring Össur prosthetics published in Össur Ambassador Lauren Wasser Nature Medicine and other scientific journals featured in Women‘s Health Magazine Successful Capital Markets Day held in Copenhagen and feature article in Börsen Team Össur Bebe Vio featured in global Nike Women campaign Team Össur members visit Iceland Össur signs an agreement to Unloader One X introduced acquire College Park Industries Desember August BBC program CLICK airs segment on Össur sports Össur featured in Börsen article technology Össur Ambassador Giusy Össur celebrates 20 years as a publicly traded Versace from Italy walked the company Nasdaq closing bell ceremony in New red carpet at the Venice Film York City’s Times Square Festival Digital Trends – Team Össur Fleur Jong sets a live interview with new world record and PB: 100m October Jon Sigurdsson, in 13.16 sec. Össur participates in ISPO World Össur‘s CEO Congress in Kobe, Japan FORBES article on Nike’s ParaSport mannequins using Össur Össur featured in TIME Magazine products 10 CSR REPORT 2019 About the Report Scope of Reporting UK’s Modern Slavery Act This Corporate Social Responsibility (CSR) report constitutes the statutory report for the As stated in Össur’s Code of Conduct, the Company complies, both in letter and spirit, with Icelandic Financial Statements Act, section 66d regarding social responsibility, environmental all applicable laws, rules and regulations in conducting its business. In addition, Össur has matters, human rights and anti-corruption and bribery, and the EU Directive on disclosure of a Human Rights policy supporting all internationally recognized human rights. This includes non-financial and diversity information (2014/95/EU). labor rights as made operational with the United Nations Guiding Principles on Business & The report is published annually and covers the calendar year. The report also functions Human Rights in the United Nations Global Compact. This includes preventing slavery and as the Communication on Progress (COP) to the UN Global Compact, Össur’s statement human trafficking occurring in any of the Company’s activities. The Code of Conduct and under Section 54 of the UK’s Modern Slavery Act 2015, and the California Transparency in Human Rights policy are available at www.Össur.com/CSR Supply Chain. Össur also follows the Nasdaq ESG Reporting Guide 2.0, updated 2019. This report contains an overview of the company’s CSR activities, as well as key measurements Third Party Assurance and progress. The report includes data supporting the progress Össur has made addressing Vast majority of the data in the report is validated by external party. Audits on product suppliers CSR. are performed by TÜV in Hong Kong, all environmental data is validated by Klappir, a service provider collecting and processing environmental data. Össur has a certified Environmental Nasdaq ESG Guide Management System and Quality System which is audited by BSI. In addition, BSI audits In 2017, Nasdaq launched its first ESG data reporting guide, voluntary guidelines for Össur in accordance with the standard for equal remuneration for equal pay. Environment, Social and Corporate Governance (ESG) disclosure. The first version of this guide was specifically addressed to Nordic and Baltic companies. In 2019 a new version was issued (ESG Reporting Guide 2.0), now covering all Nasdaq Markets. The reporting guide has 30 ESG metrics, 10 in each category. Össur has chosen to report in accordance with these guidelines. California Transparency in Supply Chain Act UN Global Compact The California Transparency in Supply Chains Act of 2010 became effective on January 1, The UN Global Compact is the world’s largest corporate 2012. The act declares that slavery and human trafficking are crimes under state, federal, sustainability initiative. It is a call to companies to align strategies and international law, and requires that retailers and manufacturers doing business in the and operations with universal principles on human rights, labor, state of California disclose their efforts to eradicate slavery and human trafficking from their environment and anti-corruption, and take actions that advance direct supply chain. Össur has an operation in California, conducting sales, marketing and societal goals. By committing to sustainability, businesses can take research and development of bracing and support products. As discussed in this report, shared responsibility for achieving a better world. Össur has systems in place to evaluate and audit its suppliers to ensure slavery and human trafficking do not exist. CSR REPORT 2019 11 UN Global Compact Principles The UN Global Compact is the world’s largest corporate sustainability initiative. It is a call to companies to align strategies and operations with universal principles on human rights, labor, environment and anti-corruption, SUSTAINABLE DEVELOPMENT GOALS and take actions that advance societal goals. By committing to sustainability, businesses can take a shared responsibility for achieving a better world. Össur’s sustainability vision is to provide products and services that HUMAN RIGHTS contribute to good health, using responsible production methods and • Businesses should support and respect the protection of internationally supporting climate action, while being a sponsor for gender equality. proclaimed human rights • Businesses should make sure that they are not complicit in human rights abuses LABOR • Businesses should uphold the freedom of association and the effective recognition of the right to collective bargaining • Businesses should eliminate all forms of forced and compulsory labor • Businesses should abolish all child labor • Businesses should eliminate discrimination in respect of employment and occupation ENVIRONMENT • Businesses should support a precautionary approach to environmental challenges • Businesses should undertake initiatives to promote greater environmental responsibility • Businesses should encourage the development and diffusion of environmentally friendly technologies ANTI-CORRUPTION • Businesses should work against corruption in all its forms, including extortion and bribery 12 CSR REPORT 2019 USER STORIES Bertolt Meyer The Musician and the Professor: Passion and Profession. These are just two of the many sides of Prof. Dr. Bertolt Meyer. He lives in Leipzig and seamlessly navigates between the factual world of the university on the one hand and the artistic world on the other. Confident and out of the box, Bertolt Meyer is a performer who loves and lives diversity whether behind the turntable or the podium. Recently, Meyer and a colleague published a study which shows how new bionic technology can change the stereotypes towards the disabled. “We can see that people wearing a bionic prosthetic are perceived completely different. Almost exactly like able bodied people. Bionic technology therefore offers a high value both functionally and psychologically.” Prof. Dr. Bertolt Meyer was born without his left forearm due to a rare condition called Dysmelia. He uses a bionic hand prosthesis to compensate. His i-Limb Quantum is a multi-articulating prosthesis, which means that it offers five individually powered digits. Electrodes on his forearm register the muscle signals from the muscle he would usually use to bend his wrist and feed them to the prosthesis. The prosthesis facilitates Bertolt’s life, especially the little, everyday things like tying shoelaces, cooking, typing, riding his bicycle and driving his car. However, the psychological benefit is also enormous. “The standard model you receive via the insurance system has a flesh colored plastic glove. You feel ashamed and people react with pity – a stereotype. Ever since I’ve worn the bionic hand, people show positive interest. This has influenced my own attitude towards my disability in a positive manner.” Life Without Limitations means I can do exactly what I want to do. CSR REPORT 2019 13 THE UN SUSTAINABLE DEVELOPMENT GOALS (SDG) Össur’s contribution to the UN Sustainable Development Goals (SDG) Össur’s largest impact on society is through the Company’s innovative products, research activities and expertise in the field of prosthetics and bracing and supports. Össur works with individuals, clinicians and diverse communities around the world to support a better quality of life and increase the mobility of millions of people. Consequently, Össur’s greatest impact on the SDGs is on Goal 3, Good Health and Well-Being. Additionally, Össur will also contribute to Goal 5 on Gender Equality, Goal 12 on Responsible Consumption and Production and Goal 13 on Climate Action. Össur’s sustainability vision is to provide products and services that contribute to good health, using responsible production methods and supporting climate action, while being a sponsor for gender equality. 14 CSR REPORT 2019 GOAL 3 Our Focus Project Access to health care Providing products and alternative treatment options Össur believes it has a great responsibility towards people with impaired mobility, not only to design products that improve mobility, but equally to support third party initiatives to improve patient care and support. Proper prosthetic solutions allow amputees to become mobile again and live a life without limitations. Likewise, bracing and supports products provide hospitals and healthcare systems alternative treatments which can postpone surgeries and improve mobility. Improve access to healthcare for amputees Globally, only 30-40% of new lower limb amputees are fitted with a prosthetic solution. The average age is between 65-70 years and vascular related amputations are above 80%. Statistics demonstrate that if amputees in this age Main targets supporting this goal: group do not become mobile, life-expectancy is materially • Design and market functional products reduced. Physical activity and exercise can have immediate for the elderly. and long-term health benefits and more importantly, • Initiate and/or support clinical investigations regular activity can improve quality of life. Össur is adding focusing on clinical benefits related to more special focus on designing products that support the needs functional products for this user group. of this age group. • Engage with industry specialists and decision makers to secure access to more functional products for this demographic. CSR REPORT 2019 15 GOAL 5 GOAL 12 GOAL 13 Our Ongoing Commitment Our Products Taking Action Gender Equality Reducing the environmental footprint of our Actively working towards a carbon neutral Össur believes in diversity in its broadest sense. Rooted in products operation our Nordic heritage is the importance of gender equality Össur is taking a product-centric approach to Össur is committed to reducing its Greenhouse Gas and women’s positive contribution to the workplace environmental management and aims to reduce the Emissions and improving the efficiency of the Company’s and society as a whole. Gender equality is not only fair, it product’s environmental footprint throughout the full energy and resource consumption, before looking into also makes economic sense to utilize the skills, strengths lifecycle, from development, through production, use and offsetting options. and knowledge of all Össur employees equally. disposal. Main targets supporting this goal: Main targets supporting this goal: Main targets supporting this goal: • Maintain an even gender split amongst employees • Implement sustainability touch points in product • Reduce emissions from business travel and freight. (+/-10%). development processes. • Improve energy efficiency and aim for renewable • Increase management positions held by women. • Material choices, recyclable and safe materials. energy options. • Encourage greater diversity and inclusiveness in the • Reduce plastics in final product packaging. • Reduce waste and increase recycling. industry. • Explore opportunities for circular business models. 16 CSR REPORT 2019 Stakeholder Engagement – CSR Report Össur‘s main stakeholders are; business partners, customers, employees, end-users, society, shareholders and investors. Össur communicates with its stakeholders through various platforms and channels. STAKEHOLDERS COMMUNICATION PLATFORM Össur communicates with its customers on a daily basis primarily through our direct sales force and customer service channels. The Össur Academy offers regular product training and ongoing educational support on product and industry-specific topics. Customers (Healthcare professionals/Medical Össur also participates in the industry dialog through board seats and involvement in O&P trade associations. Tradeshows, professionals) conferences and industry publications are also utilized to meet and communicate with customers, and customer feedback is collected on a regular basis. Communication with employees is daily through the Company’s intranet. Össur hosts staff meetings quarterly discussing Employees financial results and main developments at each time. Workplace audit is carried out by-annually and motivational index is measured every second year. Össur communicates directly with end-users through social media, targeted publications and events. In addition, we partner with various advocacy groups and associations for training and educational purposes, and often work directly and indirectly with endEnd-Users users for product testing purposes. Össur also has relationships with end-users who serve as brand ambassadors and conduct community outreach and mentor those seeking advice and support. Össur communicates with the society on its progress in the UN Global compact progress report. Össur works with various organizations and stakeholders within the healthcare industry through various initiatives, such as the Össur Academy. Society Össur acknowledges that its operations have both negative and positive impact on the societies it operates in and works towards minimizing the negative impact and maximizing the positive impact. Össur’s also supports associations for people with disabilities in most of the countries it operates. Össur strives to maintain high standards of professionalism and transparency. Össur Investor Relations facilitates dialogue with shareholders and potential investors regularly through press releases, webcasts, Shareholders/Investors participation in conferences etc. further information on IR activities: ossur.com/ir CSR REPORT 2019 17 USER STORIES Markus Rehm Markus is a 3x Paralympic Champion and World Record holder in long jump. Not only is he a professional athlete but he is also a certified prosthetist. He knows first-hand about the challenges people face following an amputation. He knows the fears of his patients because he has felt them himself. In 2003, he lost his left leg below the knee – he was only 14. He now draws strength from his job, which he pursues with enthusiasm. “Helping people return to mobility is one of my biggest goals.” Even when he was a child, sport was a big part of Markus Rehm’s life. He had to learn to live with the consequences of a tragic accident at a young age. In 2005, only two years after his accident, he finished second in the German youth championships which set the stage for what became his passion for athletics. Today, he is the undisputed champion in his class (T64 Long Jump). The list of his achievements continues to grow, as he chases his own world record distance of 8.48m. Markus is also very active in his private life and needs a prosthesis that can keep up with his busy lifestyle. Whether navigating the confined spaces of the workshop, running back and forth between appointments, or training in the weight room, the Pro-Flex XC Torsion from Össur, meets the challenges of his day-to-day activities. For his sport, he has worked closely with Össur in the development of the latest generation of sports blade for long jump, the Cheetah Xpanse. Eyes on the goal, breaking his own World Record, winning gold medals and bringing the topic of inclusion into the public eye. Markus wants to show the world that challenged athletes are worthy of competing against able-bodied athletes. Life Without Limitations means to me: Jumping further! 18 CSR REPORT 2019 Environment Össur aims to minimize and control the Company’s environmental footprint. The Company‘s derived from renewable hydro and geothermal energy sources. Össur Iceland is one of more largest manufacturing and distribution sites have a certified environmental management than 100 companies and institutions in Iceland that signed a Declaration on Climate Issues system according to ISO14001:2015. Össur’s environmental compliance obligations are in 2015 and set goals for 2020 for reduced emission in relation to the UN Climate conference both legal requirements and voluntary initiatives, such as participation in climate projects in Paris 2015. As part of this commitment, 1000 tonnes of CO2 emitted from business travel and the UN Global Compact. 2019 will be offset by supporting Icelandic forestry. The main environmental aspect from Össur’s operations are transport of raw materials and finished goods, business travel, energy consumption and manufacturing. The primary raw With an improved overview of emission established in 2019, goals on CO2 emission materials used in manufacturing processes are metals, silicone, carbon fiber and plastics. The reduction are being developed that apply to the whole company. These goals will reflect Company’s environmental focus areas are Emission to Air and Water, Waste Management, Össur‘s commitment to contributing to UN Sustainable Goal 13 on Climate Actions. Chemical Product Management, Sustainable Product Design and Employee Participation. In 2019, an improved overview of Össur‘s environmental aspects was established through implemention of new environmental management system tools. Materiality analysis was conducted which revealed that Össur can add extra focus on Greenhouse Gas Emission reduction and Product Stewardship. Energy usage by generation type Emission to Air and Water Electricity consumption and energy for heating & cooling Business travel, Energy consumption, Freight and Waste disposal are all part of the operations of a global manufacturing company, and all result in Greenhouse Gas emission. Össur is continuously improving its Greenhouse Gas emission reporting with more extensive data 38% from suppliers and service providers. In 2019, a comprehensive overview of emission from all business travel within the company was established. This explains the increase in Scope 3 emission and Emission Intensity. In 2019, 50% of electricity consumed by Össur was from renewable energy sources. When 60% looking at the combined electricity consumption and energy for heating and cooling, 60% was from renewable energy sources compared to 57% in 2018. In 2019, solar panels installed on the roof of Össur’s warehouse in Eindhoven, the Renewable Energy 2% Netherlands, generated 37% of all electricity consumed there, and the surplus generated by Fossil Fuel the solar panels was returned to the grid for others to use. Nuclear Energy Össur Headquarters in Iceland consumed 40% of the total electricity and this electricity is CSR REPORT 2019 19 Waste Management Packaging is an important part of a product and improvements can be implemented Waste management is an important part of a good business as it includes using raw faster than on the product itself. In 2019, Össur improved the overview of the Company’s materials wisely and eliminating waste from processes as much as possible, hence lowering packaging portfolio and is now optimizing and improving it. The ambitious target has been disposal cost and reducing pollution. set to reduce plastics in final product packaging by 50% in the next two years. Össur aims to continuously reduce waste from the operations through various improvement The Product Stewardship project reflects Össur‘s commitment to contributing to UN projects, and increase percentage of waste that is recycled. In 2019, there was an increase Sustainable Goal 13 on Responsible Consumption and Production. in total waste, mainly due to temporary issue that has now been solved successfully. The percentage of recycled waste increased which reflects both improvements in operations and Employee Participation more accurate calculations in the new environmental management tool implemented in Employee Participation is the key to a successful implementation of a management 2019. system that focuses on continual improvement. Employees are encouraged to propose improvement ideas in their work areas and effort is made to raise environmental awareness Chemical Product Management through seminars, awareness campaigns, intranet and by other means. Chemical Product Management is an important part of Össur’s operations as various chemical products are used in the manufacturing of medical devices. One of Össur’s legal obligations is to ensure employee access to Safety Data Sheet (SDS) for chemical products they use or may be exposed to during their work. This improved overview helps Össur’s to Össur’s Environmental Policy substitute hazardous chemical products Össur aims to minimize its environmental impact by: Sustainable Product Design • Preventing, reducing, or controlling waste and pollution from our Responsible environmental management does not only apply to manufacturing and logistics, operations but also to what companies place on the market in the form of products and services. • Meeting all applicable environmental compliance obligations and Throughout a product development phase, multiple decisions are taken that can affect the commitments environmental impact of the product such as raw material choice, manufacturing methods, • Focusing on continual improvement of the environmental management supply chain set-up and the choice of packaging methods and materials. system by meeting our objectives In 2019, a Product Stewardship project was initiated with the aim to firstly understand and • Encouraging employee participation secondly minimize the environmental impact of a product throughout its entire lifecycle. Life Cycle Assessment (LCA) was done on key products to set a baseline and provide information Program Strategy on which stages in the product ‘s lifecycle have the main environmental impacts. To raise To continually improve environmental performance in a sustainable and awareness and start an important dialogue, workshops on Sustainable Product Design, LCA effective manner and Circular Business Models were organized for R&D employees. 20 CSR REPORT 2019 CSR REPORT 2019 21 Environmental metrics in accordance with the Nasdaq ESG guidance ENVIRONMENT Connection to frameworks 2017 2018 2019 E-1 GhG Emissions UNGC: Principle 7 1) Total amount, in CO2 equivalents, for Scope 1 43 38 360 2) Total amount, in CO2 equivalents, for Scope 2 3,480 3,700 3.600 3) Total amount, in CO2 equivalents, for Scope 3 1,280 1,660 7.100 Emissions neutralized by carbon offset projects -660 -880 -1000 E-2 Emissions Intensity UNGC: Principle 7,8 SDG 13 1) Total GhG emissions per revenue (tCO2e/USD Million) 4 4 16 E-3 Energy Usage UNGC: Principle 7,8 SDG 12 1) Total amount of energy directly consumed (MWh) 14.110 15.830 18.550 E-4 Energy Intensity UNGC: Principle 7,8 SDG 12 1) Total Energy usage per revenue (MWh/USD Million) 23 27 E-5 Energy Mix Energy usage by generation type Fossil Fuel (%) 41% 41% 46% Nuclear Energy (%) 0% 1% 4% Renewable Energy (%) 59% 57% 50% E-6 Water Usage 1) Total amount of water consumed (m3) 80.000 94.000 95.400 E-7 Environmental operations 1) Does your company follow a formal Environmental Policy? Yes, No yes yes yes 2) Does your company follow specific waste, water, energy, and/or recycling polices? Yes/No yes yes yes 3) Does your company use a recognized energy management system? Yes/No no no yes E-8 Climate Oversight / Board 1) Does your Board of Directors oversee and/or manage climate-related risks? Yes/No no no no E-9 Climate Oversight / Management Does your Senior Management Team oversee and/or manage climate-related risks? Yes/No no no no E 10 Climate Oversight / Management UNGC: Principle 9 Total amount invested, annually, in climate-related infrastructure, resilience, and product development. n/a n/a n/a Footnote: Össur is continuously improving its Greenhouse gas emission reporting with more extensive data from suppliers and service providers. In 2019, the main changes are: • Emission from global business travel added. This explains the increase in Scope 3 emission in 2019 and Emission Intensity. • A new environmental management software solution implemented, providing improved overview of envionmental aspects. This explains the increase in Scope 1 emission, reflecting local gas consumption. 22 CSR REPORT 2019 Social Human Capital Diversity Össur employs about 3,500 FTEs working in over 26 countries. While we are a diverse Every day we interact with people from a wide range of cultures and backgrounds. We do company, we work as one to improve people’s mobility. Different ideas and points of view business in numerous locations around the world, working and communicating with many are beneficial to our business, and we believe in creating an environment where diversity, different colleagues’ customers and other stakeholders in our industry. Diversity and equality knowledge, skills, and strengths are fully utilized. As individuals, our employees can expect are extremely important to us. We believe in creating an environment where knowledge, equal treatment and equal opportunities for growth within Össur. Our employees take skills and strengths are fully utilized. As individuals, we can expect equal treatment and equal responsibility, both for their current job and for their career advancement. We offer various opportunities for growth within Össur. learning opportunities, so employees can build lasting and rewarding careers with us. Össur has systematically monitored and measured the development of women in management positions for years. Össur will continue to advocate for women in management Due to both the location of Össur’s manufacturing units and the skills needed with regards positions, primarily women in middle management, as they are the potential talent pool for to manufacturing operations at Össur, the Company considers forced labor and child labor higher positions. a limited risk at the Össur facilities. At Össur, all employees have the freedom of association and the HR department engages in dialogue with employees informing them of their Gender Equality rights on a regular basis. Currently 41% of employee are covered by collective bargaining Rooted in our Nordic heritage the importance of gender equality and women’s positive agreement. contribution to the workplace and society as a whole. Gender equality is not only fair, it also makes economic sense to utilize the skills, strengths and knowledge of all Össur employees Össur recognizes that this might be different when it comes to the Company’s suppliers equally. Össur has had number of initiatives in place to increase the number of women in and runs special audits on product suppliers in Asia which among other aspects audits management positions resulting in an increase of 5 percentage points between years, from compliance with local legislation, such as employee and labor rights, see further details in 33% in 2018 to 38% in 2019 for entryand mid-level positions held by women. Women in the chapter on the Company’s supply chain. senior and executivelevel positions increased from 20% to 26% between 2018 and 2019. CSR REPORT 2019 23 Women in management positions by management level 38 37 36 26 23 20 Entryand mid-level Seniorand executive positions held by women management positions held by women Audit on equal remuneration Since 2014, Össur has conducted an external audit on the equal remuneration for equal responsibility. In 2016, Össur decided to follow an Icelandic standard on equal remuneration for equal responsibility, IST 85:2012, which is audited by BSI. Össur had its first audit under the IST 85:2012 in 2017 and was among the first companies in Iceland to be audited in accordance with this standard. In the Americas, salary surveys on all employees are conducted annually as part of standard compensation review procedures and in accordance with the Equal Employment Opportunity Commission (EEOC). 24 CSR REPORT 2019 UN Women’s Empowerment Principles The Women’s Empowerment Principles are a set of principles for businesses offering guidance on how to empower women in the workplace, marketplace and community. Össur signed the United Nations Women‘s Diversity and Equality Empowerment Principles in May 2014. Össur’s action UN Women’s Empowerment Principles items or policies in place Establish high-level corporate leadership for gender 11% 16% 10% equality Treat all women and men fairly at work – respect 20% and support human rights and nondiscrimination 49% 51% 44% 27% Ensure the health, safety and well-being of all 45% employees regardless of gender 27% Promote education, training and professional development for women Gender Ratio Education Age Implement enterprise development, supply chain and marketing practices that empower women Promote equality through community initiatives Male 51% University Degree 44% 16-25 10% and advocacy Female 49% Other 45% 26-35 27% Measure and publicly report on progress to achieve Vocational or Technical Training 11% 36-45 27% gender equality 46-54 20% 55+ 16% CSR REPORT 2019 25 Össur‘s Women’s Leadership Initiative to Encourage Goals: Diversity in the Industry • Engage inclusively with both men and women to provide development support to Since 2014, Össur has been working on a Women’s Leadership Initiative (OWLI). The aim of female practitioners the initiative is to encourage greater diversity and inclusiveness in the Orthotic and Prosthetic • Bring awareness to gender biases in the workplace and practices that promote (O&P) industry. The program is intended to support O&P practitioners by providing a forum diversity that encourages interaction, community-building and educational opportunities that serve • Create a forum for female practitioners to network and provide support to one another the needs of the growing number of women in the field. Currently, the initiative is focused • Establish a greater number of female role models for future practitioners on the US market, the Company‘s largest market. Women currently comprise about 20% of • Create a positive and balanced perception of both male and female industry leaders all O&P professionals in the US. This number has more than doubled over the past decade, and women now comprise more than half of all students enrolled in graduate-level O&P Annually, Össur hosts conferences supporting this initiative. All conferences have been well programs. attended and well received by the industry. Last year’s conference was in Chicago and over 100 O&P professionals in attendance, nearly doubling last year’s attendance. Attendees included practitioners, business and practice managers and students. The conference offers both Canadian education credits as well as American. In addition to the annual conference there are various activities during the year, such as regular blogs and educational webinars. 26 CSR REPORT 2019 Occupational Health and Safety Operational Safety is an important part of the safety Employee safety is Össur’s first priority. Fifteen Össur management system. Össur works systematically on locations around the world take part in the Safety Program, raising awareness on property loss control by performing the key focus areas of which are Employee Safety, Operational internal fire safety audits quarterly, and external audits Safety and Employee Participation. The program’s goal is every third year at all major manufacturing and warehouse to continually improve the safety management system to locations. Audit results are used to continually improve ensure a safe work place. Within Employee Safety the aim is the system and thereby sustain business availability. In to identify, prevent and eliminate job related risks through 2019, internal fire safety audits were performed quarterly a Job Hazard Analysis (JHA) program, where the goal is at nineteen locations, both at Össur locations in Iceland, to prevent incidents from happening. Likewise, Össur EMEA and Americas, and main suppliers in Asia. monitors any incidents that happen whether they result in days away from work (recordable incident) or they were Employee Participation is crucial to maintain a culture only a minor incident. The root cause is analyzed with the of continual improvement, and Össur employees are aim of preventing similar incidents from happening again. encouraged to submit ideas on how to improve the safety of their work area. The total number of employee ideas In 2019, Total Recordable Incidents per 100 employees was implemented in 2019 was around 10.900. Suggestions 0.6 compared to 1.1 in 2018. The number of recordable relating to workplace safety accounted for 6% of ideas, incident decreased from 23 in 2018 to 14 incidents in 2019. while other suggestions dealt with delivery performance, This positive outcome reflects an active safety management environment, quality, efficiency, personal development and system throughout Össur locations. general improvements of the work environment. Össur strives to promote the importance of a healthy lifestyle to its employees and end-users. Össur offers Indicator 2016 2017 2018 2019 employees regular health checks and promotes preventive health measures. Additionally, Össur supports and Recordable Incidents 1.6 1.3 1.1 0.6 per 100 employees promotes activities meant to improve employee health, Number of recordable such as running and cycling events that raise money for 21 25 23 14 incidents charity. CSR REPORT 2019 27 IN THE SPOTLIGHT Össur Employees Össur employees are encouraged to submit ideas on how to improve the working environment in terms of safety, environment and improved processes. The best implemented idea in 2019 in Össur Iceland was awarded to Bryndís Ásta Ólafsdóttir, employee from Feet & Components Manufacturing. Her idea was about getting a machine to process cardboard material in such a way that it can be used as filler material in our export boxes instead of using bubble wrap. The cardboard material is reused from the various inbound shipping boxes. The annual usage of bubble wrap will drop because of this from approximately 81 rolls (680m) to 6 (50m) and cardboard boxes are reused instead of being recycled. Bryndís Ásta was awarded with a stylish Samsung Tablet. The employee suggestion program is a very powerful tool to gather and process great ideas. 28 CSR REPORT 2019 Supply Chain Human Rights, Health & Safety, Working Environment, Environmental Compliance and Össur manufactures its products in five countries. The two main manufacturing locations AntiCorruption. The code is an appendix to contracts and agreements with suppliers going are Iceland and Mexico. Smaller locations are in France, the UK and the US. In addition, forward, replacing statements and clauses in previous agreements. At yearend 2019 76% of Össur has product suppliers in Asia, which manufacture bracing and supports products. The critical suppliers had confirmed the code. Read Össur’s Supplier Code in full on Össur.com/ vast majority of the Company’s prosthetic products are manufactured in Iceland, however CSR. Supplier Code in full on www.össur.com/CSR some product lines have been transferred to Mexico. Bracing and supports products are manufactured in Mexico, France and by suppliers in Asia. In addition, small manufacturing Product Suppliers locations are in the UK and Michigan. The Company’s main distribution centers are in The The Asia manufacturing and sourcing team is responsible for the product suppliers in Asia, Netherlands and the US. All manufacturing locations and distribution centers have adopted i.e. suppliers that fully manufacture products for Össur. The team consists of 11 people. The lean manufacturing processes in addition to extensive loss prevention initiatives which are team works closely with the suppliers, and on average there are one to two Össur employees focused on both personal and plant safety. at each supplier site up to three days every week. Össur and its partners are instructed to follow a special code of conduct and all contracts address human rights clauses with As part of the Össur Sourcing Process steps (2-4) supplier evaluations include custom criteria special focus on compensation and health and safety. In 2019, 2 new product suppliers were scoring, financial viability as well as Corporate Social Responsibility. This is addressed in the on-boarded into Össur’s supplier auditing program and agreement with one supplier was supplier analysis as well as in the contracting stage. If suppliers are considered critical or discontinued. At year-en Össur had 18 product suppliers in Asia, 11 major product suppliers strategic suppliers audits, are completed on a regular basis. and 7 minor product suppliers. To ensure compliance with Össur’s ethical standards, local legislation, labor practices and international treaties, Össur has engaged external auditors Raw Material Suppliers to audit the suppliers annually. These audits are in addition to audits performed by Össur Össur has more than 800 active suppliers, of which about 200 are considered critical. employees. To improve the risk profile of the suppliers, Össur has hosted risk and safety Annually all critical suppliers are evaluated. Suppliers that reach a score of 80 points in the seminars, educating and training the Company’s strategic product suppliers in order to evaluation or more on the scale of 1-100 are considered to show “good results”, score in the improve processes and improve risk awareness. Össur uses the results to help suppliers range of 65-80 is considered acceptable and score below 65 is not acceptable. Following each make progress and to develop their operations. evaluation, the results are sent to the suppliers along with feedback, as well as opportunities for improvement. Suppliers who do not deliver results in line or above the Company’s Responsible Sourcing target are offered the opportunity to adapt accordingly, and in some instances, suppliers In 2016, Össur established a process for the responsible sourcing of suppliers. The process are replaced. guides the employees in the decision-making process when selecting a new partner, as well as through the regular auditing process for product suppliers in Asia. The process offers In previous years Össur has been working on getting suppliers to sign statements on guidance on what Össur is willing to accept in terms of performance of social parameters. If Human Rights and Anti-Corruption and Bribery and at yearend 2016 90% had signed such a supplier receives an A or B it is considered to be in good order and will be audited again in statements. In 2018 these statements started to be replaced by a Supplier Code covering 12 months. However, if a supplier receives a C or D a follow up audit will be performed in six CSR REPORT 2019 29 months. For suppliers that do not achieve the required grade, Össur has certain criteria for what percentage of non-conformities need to be resolved, including all critical nonconformities. The suppliers will have two chances to fulfill the requirements, and if these requirements are not met Össur will reevaluate possibilities for further cooperation. Product Quality & Safety Össur has had a certified Quality Management system in place since 1993 and it is based on ISO management standards. Össur is currently certified according to ISO13485, ISO14001 and MDSAP, Medical Device Single Audit Program. The Quality Management system also complies with the applicable medical device regulations in the countries that Össur sells to, including but not limited to the requirements of the FDA 21 CFR Part 820, Canadian Medical Device Regulation (SOR/98-282), Medical Device Directive 93/42/EEC, Brazil ANVISA regulations, Australia Therapeutic Goods Regulation and Japan MHLW Ministerial Ordinance No.169. Updates to the Quality Management system according to Regulation (EU) 2017/746 that is replacing the Medical Device Directive 93/42/EEC are in progress. Certifications of Össur sites (total 11 sites) ISO 9001 ISO 13485 ISO 14001 Iceland √ √ Eindhoven, The Netherlands √ √ Manchester, UK √ St. Etienne, France √ Trevoux, France √ Foothill Ranch, California √ Tijuana, Mexico √ √ Albion, Michigan √ Philadelphia, New Jersey √ √ Bayreuth, Germany √ Livingston, UK √ 30 CSR REPORT 2019 Customer Feedback Össur values feedback from its customers in relation to its products and services. Össur regularly conducts surveys among its customers and monitors feedback carefully. All feedback is evaluated and analyzed and on average Össur responds to its customers in less than 30 Quality Policy days. Feedback on products received from customers is used as one of the key attributes when R&D is working on product improvements as well as development of new products. We strive to provide products and services to exceed customers’ The quality center for prosthetics is in Iceland and the quality center for bracing & supports expectations. Strongly focused on continuous improvement, we monitor and is in California. The centers play a key role in coordination and alignment with various respond to healthcare needs, complying with all regulatory requirements departments, allowing Össur to provide quality products and increased safety for users. The quality centers coordinate closure of complaints with main distribution locations, in Philadelphia in the US and in Eindhoven in The Netherlands, as well as other smaller locations. Feedback is registered by over 180 customer service employees and evaluated by about 60 employees in 15 locations. Össur strives to secure user safety and uses industry standard ISO14971, Risk management Standard for medical devices as main method with support of internal and external test labs to verify quality of the products prior to release to markets. Feedback on devices placed on the Safety Policy market is also used as one of the key attributes in assessment of risk. Safety is our first priority and part of everything we do. Össur operates at all times in accordance with relevant health and safety Handling time For Customer Feedback standards, and all employees are committed to providing a safe and hazard20 free workplace. Continuous improvement and preventive measures are the 16 key to our safety program. 14 Number of Days 15 10 10 10 10 8 Program Strategy 5 To continually improve our safety management to ensure a safe work place. 0 Y2017 Y2018 Y2019 Prosthetics Bracing & Supports CSR REPORT 2019 31 The Safety of our Users Strongly focused on CONTINUOUS IMPROVEMENT we monitor and respond to needs. We comply with international MEDICAL DEVICE regulations to ensure user safety. We use best practice standards to ensure PRODUCT QUALITY and user safety. 32 CSR REPORT 2019 Human Rights For over a decade, Össur has had an educational program called Össur Academy, which Össur respects and supports internationally recognized human rights, including labor educates prosthetists all over the world. The Össur Academy is committed to furthering the rights as stated in the UN Guiding Principles on Business and Human Rights, as framed level of education and quality of prosthetic and orthopaedic knowledge among professionals, in the first six principles of the UN Global Compact. Össur has a Human Rights policy end-users and their families. The aim is to enable orthotists, prosthetists and other medical supporting all internationally recognized human rights, including labor rights. As stated professionals to achieve clinical success through accessible information and the services in Össur’s Human Rights Policy the Company is committed to comply with all applicable Össur provides. Össur also has in place a program called “The Össur Orthopaedic Fellowship laws, rules and regulations in relation to human rights, which covers areas such as forced Program.” This is a 12-month academic program designed to enhance the clinical, surgical, labor, slavery, child labor, sex trafficking, human trafficking, workplace abuse or any other and research skills of orthopaedic/musculoskeletal healthcare specialists. Össur offers form of discrimination. a research grant program both in the field of prosthetics and bracing and supports. The program is designed to provide funding for scientific research in the areas of lower extremity Össur encourages its employees to report any suspected violation. Össur prohibits biomechanics, dynamic/active rehabilitation, ortho biologics, functional bracing, clinical any retaliatory actions against good faith reporting of actual or suspected violations. patient outcomes and related healthcare economics. Furthermore, Össur expects its business partners and all other strategic partners to understand and address the Company’s expectations related to human rights. Read Össur’s Human Rights Policy in full at ossur.com/CSR Society and Education One aspect of the Company’s responsibility is to support the societies and environment in which the Company operates. Össur believes that it has a responsibility towards people of all abilities, not only to provide high quality products, but equally to support third-party initiatives aimed at better care and support for people with disabilities. The Company believes it is important that the perception of people of varying abilities is positive and together with great athletes participating in the Paralympics, as well as other elite sporting events, the perception of people with a disability has changed for the better. Additionally, Össur believes it has a responsibility in relation to the education of healthcare professionals that work in the field of prosthetics and bracing and supports. In this respect, Össur cooperates with universities in both the US and Europe on research projects, and has, on average, six to 10 interns at any given time. CSR REPORT 2019 33 Össur Mobility Clinics Össur regularly offers Mobility Clinics free of charge to amputees in various locations around the world. Amputees learn practical ways to move more quickly and efficiently with their prostheses and gain access to world-renowned gait specialists, Össur athletes and other mentors in a supportive and encouraging environment. Hundreds of amputees attend the many Mobility Clinics held each year in the United States, Australia, South Africa, central Europe and beyond. 34 CSR REPORT 2019 COMMUNITY SUPPORT Össur supports and partners with a wide range of organizations around the globe. As a leading orthopaedic manufacturer, it is the Company’s responsibility and privilege to champion the industry and serve patients and practitioners in every way possible. A few of the Company‘s larger initiatives are: Challenged Athletes Foundation (CAF) Iceland Sport Association for the Disabled & The Challenged Athletes Foundation (CAF) and Össur have partnered The National Paralympic Committee of Iceland together for over 20 years to ensure that individuals with limb difference Össur has been a proud supporter of the Iceland Disabled Sports have access to innovative sports prostheses, expert coaching, and Association and National Paralympic Committee for over two decades. instruction on how to use them. Amputee Coalition of America (ACA) International Confederation of Amputee A national U.S. non-profit formed in 1989 to offer continued education, Associations (IC2A) mentoring, peer support and consumer advocacy. Össur is a corporate member of the International Confederation of Amputee Associations; an alliance that shares experiences, knowledge and best practice to inspire improvement in the quality of life of amputees and individuals born with limb deficiency. Danish National Olympic Committee & Sports Team Össur Confederation (DIF) Team Össur is an accomplished group of elite international athletes and DIF coordinates with 9,000 in-country sports organizations, has a sporting role models. Team Össur includes athletes from world-class membership of nearly 2 million people, and is dedicated to further triathletes to accomplished track and field athletes. Athletes like these developing Danish society by promoting the importance of physical are important for our community to demonstrate to others that they activity as a national priority. should follow their dreams and not look at their condition as a disability. CSR REPORT 2019 35 Challenged Athletes Foundation (CAF) Iceland Sport Association for the Disabled & The The Challenged Athletes Foundation (CAF) and Össur have partnered National Paralympic Committee of Iceland together for over 20 years to ensure that individuals with limb difference have Össur has been a proud supporter of the Iceland Disabled Sports Association access to innovative sports prostheses, expert coaching, and instruction on and National Paralympic Committee for over two decades. how to use them. International Confederation of Amputee Amputee Coalition of America (ACA) Associations (IC2A) A national U.S. non-profit formed in 1989 to offer continued education, Össur is a corporate member of the International Confederation of Amputee mentoring, peer support and consumer advocacy. Associations; an alliance that shares experiences, knowledge and best practice to inspire improvement in the quality of life of amputees and individuals born with limb deficiency. Danish National Olympic Committee & Sports Confederation (DIF) DIF coordinates with 9,000 in-country sports organizations, has a Team Össur membership of nearly 2 million people, and is dedicated to further Team Össur is an accomplished group of elite international athletes and developing Danish society by promoting the importance of physical activity sporting role models. Team Össur includes athletes from world-class as a national priority. triathletes to accomplished track and field athletes. Athletes like these are important for our community to demonstrate to others that they should follow their dreams and not look at their condition as a disability. 36 CSR REPORT 2019 Employees engage in community support Össur encourages employees to participate in community support and each year number of initiatives are supported by employees participating in various events. Össur likes to demonstrate that support to your nearest community does not need to be only through direct financial support. As such Össur employees in Iceland have supported Reykjadalur, a Summer Camp for Children with disabilities in Iceland. For the past three years Össur employees have spent one day at the Summer Camp assisting with repairs, painting and cleaning, preparing the camp to open for the summer. In Mexico, employees have bought Christmas presents for children in orphanage homes and brought necessities to retirement home for homeless people. And in South Africa employees have given food to children living in the poor townships close to the office and brought gifts to children in orphanage homes, to name a few. In addition, Össur employees participate in numerous events like marathons, cycling events, triathlons and other activities raising money for good causes in their societies. CSR REPORT 2019 37 38 CSR REPORT 2019 Össur and Motivation Australia Charity Partnership The Össur and Ottobock Research Trust Fund In October Össur Australia signed an agreement with Motivation Australia, which is an In 2016, Össur and its main competitor Ottobock signed an agreement on a joint philanthropic Australian organisation working to improve lives of people in need in the Pacific region, effort to further develop the field of mind-controlled prosthetics. The fund is named “The particularly in the area of Prosthetics and Orthotics. They offer valuable assistance in the Össur and Ottobock Research Trust Fund” and will award international grants for scientific way of funding and improved services to those most in need by: research and innovative projects in the field of advanced neural control of prosthetic limbs. The • Training and mentoring local in-country personnel to improve services in their local companies’ initial combined contribution to the fund was USD 1 million. The establishment communities of this fund confirms Össur’s commitment and belief that advanced technology is one of the • Supporting local services to deliver into their communities greatest benefits for people with disabilities. Advancements in technology will further help • Advocating for improved rehabilitation and assistive devices people with disabilities achieve lives without physical limitations. • Fundraising where possible to continually improve the output of the local services Marketing Ethics The main objectives of the partnership for Össur Australia are to: Össur markets its products primarily to healthcare professionals. Össur respects and • Provide financial and volunteer support to assist them to improve Prosthetic and understands the boundary between the expertise of the healthcare professionals and Össur‘s Orthotic service provision in the Pacific region expertise in relation to the Company‘s products. Össur makes sure that employees in the • Provide opportunities for Össur employees to engage in the form of personal field as well as employees in customer service receive relevant training. Össur‘s Medical donations Office is responsible for all trials and testing of Össur‘s products and verifies that all claims • Providing opportunities for employee involvement by way of volunteering. regarding benefits and function of the products are true and can be backed up by data. Össur’s operational commitments to Motivation Australia Additionally, Össur believes it is important to make sure that the Company’s marketing include the following: material reflects its commitment to human rights. Össur’s customers are to a large extent • Product support by donation of product consistent with individuals that are considered to be physically challenged and Össur has for many years Motivation Australia’s needs strived to change the perception of people with disabilities. However, the Company takes its • Provision of opportunities for employees to undertake responsibility seriously to promote equal opportunities amongst all groups, irrespective of volunteer experiences inclusive of in country services age, race, national origin, gender, religion, disability or any other protected characteristics. and/or office-based consultancy where possible (one Marketing material and media efforts in general are a strong platform to reach out to people fully paid volunteer opportunity per year and other selfand therefore Össur believes it’s even more important to display its commitment to human funded opportunities when they arise). rights in its media activities. • Creation of an employee giving scheme with funds donated by any employee to be matched by Össur Australia CSR REPORT 2019 39 Social metrics in accordance with the Nasdaq ESG guidance SOCIAL Connection to frameworks 2017 2018 2019 S-1 CEO Pay Ratio UNGC: Principle 6 1) CEO total compensation to median FTE total compensation 25 22 21 2) Does your company report this metric in regulatory filings? Yes/No Yes Yes Yes S-2 Gender pay ratio UNGC: Principle 6 Equal pay audit Yes Yes Yes S-3 Employee Turnover UNGC: Principle 6 1) Year-over-year change for full-time employees 13% 15% 10% 2) Year-over-year change for part-time employees n/a n/a n/a 3) Year-over-year change for contractors and/or consultants n/a n/a n/a S-4 Gender Diversity UNGC: Principle 6 1) Total enterprise headcount held by men and women M 52%/F 48% M 51%/F 49% M 51%/F 49% 2) Entryand mid-level positions held by men and women M 63%/F 37% M 64%/F 36% M 62%/F 38% 3) Seniorand executive-level positions held by men and women M 77%/F 23% M 80%/F 20% M 74%/F 26% S-5 Temporary Worker Ratio UNGC: Principle 6 1) Total enterprise headcount held by part-time employees 3% 4% 8% 2) Total enterprise headcount held by contractors and/or consultants n/a n/a n/a S-6 Non-Discrimination UNGC: Principle 6 1) Does your company follow a sexual harassment and/or non-discrimination policy? Yes/No Yes Yes Yes S-7 Injury Rate 1) Percentage: Frequency of injury events relative to total workforce time 1,7 1,1 0,6 S-8 Global Health and Safety SDG 3 1) Does your company follow an occupational health and/or global health & safety policy? Yes/No Yes Yes Yes S-9 Child & Forced Labor UNGC: Principle 4,5 1) Does your company follow a child and/or forced labor policy? Yes/No Yes Yes Yes 2) If yes, does your child and/or forced labor policy See also: cover suppliers and vendors? Yes/No Yes Yes Yes S 10 Human Rights UNGC: Principle 1,2 1) Does your company follow a human rights policy? Yes/No Yes Yes Yes 2) If yes, does your human rights policy See also: cover suppliers and vendors? Yes/No Yes Yes Yes 40 CSR REPORT 2019 Governance Corporate Governance Compliance and Security Össur hf. is an Icelandic company listed on Nasdaq Copenhagen. As a listed company, Össur has operations in more than 26 countries and distributes its products worldwide. Össur communicates with its shareholders and other stakeholders about the Company’s Along with the Company’s values – Honesty, Frugality, Courage – Össur has various financial and business developments in an open and honest manner. Össur provides policies in place such as a Code of Conduct, an Anti-Corruption and Anti-Bribery policy investors, analysts and other stakeholders with timely and accurate information. Every and a Supplier Code, to name a few. These policies and the Company’s values serve year, Össur hosts investor meetings and teleconferences with the CEO and the CFO, as guiding principles for the employees. Össur has been building its Anti-Corruption following quarterly reports and other key events. As a listed company, Össur complies and Anti-Bribery programs, increasing awareness and providing education and training with all relevant rules and regulations, and follows the Danish Recommendations on to its employees. In 2019 continued work towards aligning compliance activities took Corporate Governance. Össur issues annually a Corporate Governance Report and place as well as risk assessment, followed by prioritization of focus areas. A compliance Remuneration Report, available on Össur’s website . and security governance structure has been established to strengthen the Company’s risk management efforts. The Company sees the benefits of taking a holistic view of the The Company’s Corporate Governance statement includes information on the following relevant risks and combining efforts in these areas. In 2020 a comprehensive compliance items: and security program will be rolled out where prioritization will be based on results from • A reference to the corporate governance recommendations the Company follows recent risk assessments. and how the Company addresses the recommendations, including any deviations and explanations thereto. Risk Assessment • A description of the main aspects of the Company’s internal controls and risk Össur has performed a risk assessment of its sales and distribution network. The scope management systems in connection with the preparation of financial statements. of the risk assessment was based on certain minimum thresholds of annual sales and • A description of the Company’s organizational structure and the role of each function. the business partner’s territory, and countries with a low score on the Transparency • A description of the Company’s diversity policy relating to the Board of Directors and International List on corruption were given priority. The assessment has provided a good the CEO, the aim of the policy and its execution. overview and understanding of Össur’s businesses, primarily businesses that operate in high-risk countries, and revealed potential exposures related to corruption and bribery. A complete report on the Company’s compliance with each recommendation in the Össur monitors selected high-risk markets and is implementing procedures to mitigate Danish Recommendations on Corporate Governance is available on the Company’s the potential risks. website: ossur.com/investors CSR REPORT 2019 41 Overview of Main Initiatives Regarding Anti-Corruption and Anti-Bribery 2014 2015 2016 2017 2018 2019 Risk assessment and Scoping of compliance in Risk assessment and Training and education of Continued training and prioritizing focus areas. Writing and implementation a larger context, aiming at screening of business management and employees education and awareness Compliance and security of policies combining all compliance partners and contract review in sales functions building governance structure areas in one global function established. 42 CSR REPORT 2019 Training and Awareness Tax Transparency Training of employees has been prioritized based on position and geography. The training Össur’s core values, honesty, frugality and courage, are a strong foundation for the program has two main levels. Some employees go through both face-to-face training corporate culture and business strategy. These core values also serve as a strong and on-line training whereas others receive only on-line training. The main emphasis foundation for Össur’s tax strategy. Based on its corporate social responsibility, Össur has been on the continued training of key employees and employees located in high-risk acts with integrity towards all stakeholders involved directly and indirectly with the areas, or those responsible for the Company’s businesses in high-risk areas, in addition company. As a high-profile medical device company, Össur acknowledges that paying tax to continued awareness building and education. Össur has policies in place that guide is an important part of the Company´s economic impact and contribution to society as and support employees, such as the Anti-Corruption and Bribery policy and the Supplier taxes fund social investment. Code, which are signed by the Company’s business partners. Review a full list of policies at ossur.com/CSR In 2019 Össur total income tax expense amounted to USD 21 million, with an effective tax rate of 24%. Effective Tax Rate for 2020 is expected to be in the range of 23-24%. Whistleblower Policy Össur provides employees with ways of reporting conduct that they reasonably believe violates applicable laws, regulations or the Company’s policies. The Company treats all reports as confidential and any issue will be discussed only with those individuals who Tax Strategy have a “need to know.” The Company’s policy strictly prohibits any retaliatory action Össur seeks to obtain a competitive tax level in a responsible way and as against a person reporting actual or potential compliance issues in good faith, whether or a general rule, Össur pays corporate taxes in the countries it operates in. not the reports ultimately prove to be well founded. This means doing business in a way that meets expectations for good corporate citizenship and, paying taxes where profits are earned in Data Privacy accordance with prevailing national and international tax rules. We To be able to conduct business and provide service to customers Össur needs to collect manage our tax affairs responsibly and transparently and we only and handle personal data. It is Össur‘s priority to treat data with the utmost respect and undertake tax planning which aligns with our commercial and economic confidentiality. Most countries have legislation in place obligating companies to handle activities. We will not engage in artificial transactions which have the sole personal data securely and in May 2018, the new EU Regulation on Protection of Personal aim of reducing tax. We make fair, accurate and timely disclosure in Data (GDPR) entered into effect. To ensure compliance with GDPR, Össur has established correspondence and returns, and respond to queries and information and updated policies and procedures and facilitated awareness trainings about data privacy requests in a timely manner. We provide all relevant information when via internal announcements, e -learning, and dedicated intranet site as well as training requested to do so. If we discover errors in tax returns or correspondence sessions for relevant employees. Össur has appointed a Data Protection Officer to head up with tax authorities, we disclose and correct them promptly. efforts within the field of data privacy. CSR REPORT 2019 43 Governance metrics in accordance with the Nasdaq ESG guidance GOVERNANCE Connection to frameworks 2017 2018 2019 Comments G-1 Board Diversity M 60% / F M 60% / M 60% / F 1) Percentage: Total board seats occupied by women (as compared to men) 40% F 40% 40% M 100% /F M 100% M 100% /F The Board has only one committee, Audit Committee, explaining the 2) Percentage: Committee chairs occupied by women (as compared to men) 0% /F 0% 0% uneven gender split. G-2 Board Independence 1) Does company prohibit CEO from serving as board chair? Yes/No Yes Yes Yes D 60% / I D 60% / D 60% / I 2) Percentage: Total board seats occupied by independents 40% I 40% 40% G-3 Incentivized Pay 1) Are executives formally incentivized to perform on sustainability? Yes/No No No No G-4 Collective Bargaining UNGC: Principle 3 1) Total enterprise headcount covered by collective bargaining agreement(s) n/a n/a 41% UNGC: Principle 2,3,4,8 G-5 Supplier Code of Conduct SDG 12 1) Are your vendors or suppliers required to follow a Code of Conduct? Yes/ No No No Yes If yes, what percentage of your suppliers have formally certified their compliance with 2) n/a n/a 76% 76% of suppliers categorized as critical suppliers the code? G-6 Ethics & Anti-Corruption UNGC: Principle 10 1) Does your company follow an Ethics and/or Anti-Corruption policy? Yes/No Yes Yes Yes If yes, what percentage of your workforce has formally certified its compliance with the Percentage of key employees in sales and employees with 2) 91% 91% 91% policy? responsibilities in high risk areas G-7 Data Privacy 1) Does your company follow a Data Privacy policy? Yes/No Yes Yes Yes 2) Has your company taken steps to comply with GDPR rules? Yes/No Yes Yes Yes G-8 ESG Reporting UNGC: Principle 8 1) Does your company publish a sustainability report? Yes/No Yes Yes Yes 2) Is sustainability data included in your regulatory filings? Yes/No Yes Yes Yes G-9 Disclosure Practices UNGC: Principle 8 Does your company provide sustainability data to sustainability reporting frameworks? 1) Yes Yes Yes Yes/No Does your company focus on specific UN Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs)? Yes/ 2) No No Yes No 3) Does your company set targets and report progress on the UN SDGs? Yes/No No No Yes G 10 G10. External Assurance UNGC: Principle 8 Are your sustainability disclosures assured or validated by a third party? Yes/No Third party assurance and third party audits are perfomed on vast majority of the data published in the report © ÖSSUR, 02. 2020
