Annual and sustainability report 2019 When trust is shared, it grows Contents Alecta in brief 2 Highlights of 2019 3 Message from the CEO 4 Alecta’s long-term operational goals 6 Alecta’s sustainability objectives 7 The occupational pensions market 8 A sustainable pension system 12 Good pension 12 Stable and reliable pension provider 14 Responsible investor 18 An attractive workplace 24 Sustainability supplement 26 GRI table 42 Auditor’s review report 44 Corporate Governance Report 46 Corporate governance model 47 Council of Administration and auditors 51 Board of Directors 52 Senior management 54 Administration Report 56 Financial statements 70 The Board of Directors’ and CEO’s signatures 122 Audit’s Report 123 Glossary 128 The customers own Alecta Alecta has 35,000 corporate customers and 2.6 million private customers throughout the country. We asked a few of our corporate customers what collectively agreed occupational pensions mean to them and their employees. At the same time, we asked the photographer Evelina Carborn to take the images you can see on the cover and on some of the pages of this report. We know that trust grows when it is shared To create as much value as possible of the pension capital, we have assigned the highest priority to low costs. We know that low fees are important for creating a good pension and we offer among the lowest fees in the sector. Because our mission is to create security for the future, we have a long-term approach. We want and we need to contribute to the society of the future being a good one to live in and one that creates sustainable growth and new jobs. That is also how we create a healthy return. Our model for managing your pension savings gives us an opportunity to really influence the companies in which we invest. That’s why we can promise that every day we will work for you and your future security regardless of whether you are a private or a corporate customer. Together we are Alecta. Welcome to read more about us and our work in this report! We are here for you! Alecta has a strong driving force – we have an important mission. We shall maximise the value of the occupational pension for you as our customer. This gives you, and your children and grandchildren, security now and in the future regardless of whether you are 25 or 65 years old, at the same time as it is an efficient solution for those of you who are employers. Accordingly, we also make an important contribution to society – a sustainable pension system. These are some of the factors that make us particularly suitable for living up to our mission and our role in society: •W  e are owned by the customers – any surplus is returned to them. •W  e offer a collective insurance solution. All customers jointly share risks and responsibilities. This provides greater security and flexibility. •W  e are procured collectively, which yields savings in the form of lower sales and marketing costs. About Alecta’s annual and sustainability report 2019 Alecta’s annual and sustainability report are presented by the Board of Directors and CEO and are intended to give all stakeholders a good idea of our activities and results in the past year. The Administration Report and the financial statements on pages 56–122 constitute Alecta’s statutory financial information and are subject to external auditing. The Audit’s Report on the statutory financial information is presented on pages 123–126. Alecta’s sustainability report is included in the sections “A sustainable pension system” and “Sustainability supplement” on pages 12–43. The Sustainability Report also constitutes Alecta’s statutory Sustainability Report and has been prepared in accordance with the Global Reporting Initiative (GRI) Guidelines. The overall description of Alecta’s operations and work performed during the year is presented on pages 2–25. Reports on processes, more detailed data and the scope and limits that apply are presented in the supplementary in-depth section about sustainability on pages 26–43. Alecta’s external auditors, Ernst & Young AB, conduct a review of the company’s sustainability reporting, and the review report on the sustainability reporting and the auditors’ opinion on the statutory Sustainability Report are presented on page 44. 1 Alecta in brief Alecta’s mission and goals Alecta has taken responsibility for the future since 1917 by A sustainable pension system managing occupational pensions. Our mission is to maximise the value of collectively agreed occupational pensions for our corporate and private customers. To guide our activities in that direction, Alecta has defined three general operaStable and reliable Responsible Good pension tional goals: pension provider investor • Secure and satisfied customers • Low costs and high efficiency Attractive employer • A good return and strong financial position. When trust is shared it grows A sustainable pension system Trust grows when it is shared – this insight characterises both Age is not something to worry about when we are young. For the foundation for our mission, which is to maximise the value this reason, having pensions that can sustain a livelihood is an of collectively agreed occupational pensions, and our entire important part of the social contract. Alecta’s business enabusiness. Alecta’s ability to contribute to the mission is based bles this by helping to build what we call a sustainable pension on a number of fundamental decisions made by our founders system. This is a system that rests on three pillars: pensions and principals: that people can live on now and in the future, reliable pension • Mutual ownership – which means that we are owned by companies and responsible investments which contribute to our 2.6 million private and 35,000 corporate customers, and a sustainable society. Together, this results in a focus on good that any surplus that is generated is returned to them. returns, low fees, high efficiency and well-integrated sustaina• A collective insurance solution – a solution in which pribility work. vate and corporate customers share the responsibility and As an active long-term owner, we need to have a broad the risks. This creates greater security and flexibility. It perspective of risks and opportunities. We are convinced that makes it possible to offer all customers a lifelong pension, a responsible investments yield good returns that lead to good survivor’s pension and disability insurance without complex pensions both now and in the future. exemptions. A stable pension provider is better positioned to take the • Collective procurement – creates economies of scale that long-term decisions that the business needs. In addition, the contribute to an already efficient management of pension right competencies are required in order to operate in a changassets becoming even more efficient, which ultimately also ing world and live up to our high goals and ambitions. That is leads to low fees. how we can maintain a sustainable pension system. Through our mission, and with our objectives as our guiding principle, Alecta contributes to a sustainable pension system. That is Alecta’s role in society. A sustainable pension system 960 means good and secure pensions in both the short and the long term. By acting sustainably and responsibly, we create stable SEK billion in assets conditions for our investments to grow and predictability for under management 35,000 both the employer and the beneficiary. corporate customers 2.6 million insured private customers 2 ALECTA’S ANNUAL AND SUSTAINABILIT Y REPORT 2019 Highlights of 2019 Highest return in 20 years A large share of the whole ESG4Real certification In 2019, return on the defined contribupension As the first asset manager in the world, tion insurance Alecta Optimal Pension Occupational pensions are becoming Alecta was certified in June 2019 in was 20.3 per cent, and on the defined increasingly important. According to accordance with ESG4Real’s principles, benefit insurance 14.1 per cent. This Insurance Sweden, the employers’ and it hopes the certification will help makes 2019 Alecta’s best year for more organisation for the Swedish insurance pension savers to choose sustainable than two decades in terms of returns. industry, payments of the state pension alternatives. page 18 increased by 35 per cent between 2011 and 2018, while payments of occupational pensions and private pensions rose by Alecta best occupational Net Zero 2050 a full 43 per cent. pension fund and fixed income In September, Alecta, together with a page 8 investment manager in Europe number of international pension funds Alecta received two prizes at IPE Awards and insurance companies, launched the 2019. The awards were in the categories Continued digitalisation climate initiative Net-Zero Asset Owner for Multi-Employer/Professional Pension simplifies and improves Alliance (AOA). This initiative is supportFund and Fixed Income. The awards were In 2019, Alecta has been active in coned by the UN and aims to increase the announced in December and were previncing more private customers to opt rate of climate transition. page 19 sented by the Investments and Pensions for digital annual statements instead of Europe magazine. printed statements. More customers than ever are now receiving mail via the Green bonds digital letterbox Kivra. 2019 was the last In 2019, Alecta invested approximately Alecta 2023 year Alecta sent approximately 470,000 SEK 10 billion in green bonds and now paper copies of annual statements and In 2018, we drew up a strategic five-year has over SEK 40 billion invested in total control data. action programme, Alecta 2023. It has page 13 in green bonds issued by 25 different four focus areas that are seen as critical issuers. The issuers include Stora Enso, if Alecta is to be unequivocally the best Kommuninvest and Vasakronan. alternative in the next procurement of Frequent questions to the page 20 the default option for defined contribuPension Economist? tion ITP 2023. There was a high level of “Will there be any money left when it is Modern working method activity in these focus areas in 2019. time for me to retire?” This is one of the During the year, we have taken addipage 4 most common questions asked about tional steps in our move towards a more pensions. A survey conducted during modern working method. These efforts the year by Alecta and the Ungdomsbaaimed to shorten lead times and enable rometern youth survey also illustrates a clearer focus when we pursue the widespread mistrust of the pension business development. system: a significant percentage of young page 25 people state that they were already concerned about their pensions when they attended upper secondary school and feel responsibility lies first and foremost with themselves. page 17 ALECTA’S ANNUAL AND SUSTAINABILIT Y REPORT 2019 3 Message from the CEO A stepping stone to the future In 2019, we successfully provided our customers with highly favourable returns and prepared Alecta for the future demands of customers and employees. Following a sharp downturn on stock markets at the end of year we prepared for a lower forecast rate in the Alecta Optimal 2018, the trend was reversed in 2019. This contributed to very Pension product, which we applied as of 1 January 2020. high returns for both of our products. The defined contribution At the same time, we are striving to improve our digital product, Alecta Optimal Pension, noted an outstanding return analysis capacity so we can provide our customers, labour of 20.3 per cent, and for the defined benefit product, the figure market parties and other decision-makers and opinion leaders was 14.1 per cent. This is the highest return for Alecta in 20 with qualified data. years. Asset management Alecta 2023 We have strengthened our organisation in asset management It is gratifying that we could deliver such substantial value to to diversify our portfolio and enable more investments in, our customers in 2019. Equally pleasing is the energetic and above all, real assets. We have further enhanced our experdecisive manner in which the whole company has embraced tise in the analysis of sustainability factors and clarified our the task of strengthening Alecta for future opportunities and sustainability goals while also continuing to make sustainable challenges. In 2018, we drew up a strategic five-year action proinvestments. Our portfolio of green bonds now amounts to gramme, Alecta 2023. Its four focus areas are seen as critical more than SEK 40 billion and we continue to be one of the largif Alecta is to be unequivocally the best alternative in the next est investors in the world. Moreover, we increased our portfolio procurement of the default option for defined contribution of impact investments to almost SEK 11 billion. Finally, asset ITP 2023. management has strived to further automate and digitalise We must provide our customers with the best offering in processes and procedures. terms of pension products, customer service, online services, The negative or very low level of interest rates will remain information and trust. In addition, we must provide the best a challenge for us, partly in generating returns, partly, and preasset management in terms of high returns, clear sustainability sumably to a greater extent, as our long-term pension commitfocus and efficient management. ments require larger technical provisions. To deliver this, we must leverage all of the opportunities offered by new technology and new working methods. Modern working methods and attractive Finally, the prerequisite for all of this is that we can retain, employer develop and recruit the most competent employees. There was All employees have demonstrated great engagement in discussa high level of activity in these focus areas in 2019. ing and developing new working methods and new digital tools to create more customer value, greater efficiency and higher Offering motivation. During the year, we held inspirational and educaWe published a beta version of the Internet office for our cortional weeks as well as joint corporate workshops to discuss and porate and proxy customers, which enabled them to test and learn how we can achieve our target of becoming best in the provide feedback ahead of the launch of the official version at industry at harnessing technological opportunities. At the same the beginning of 2020. We have also considerably improved our time, we began developing a new intranet to support collaborause of our vast data volumes, and have visualised this data to tion, sharing of competences and efficient communication. provide our customers with swift and valuable information in We regularly measure employee engagement, for example an easily understandable form. The aim is to make it surpristhrough the e-NPS metric, and look at how likely employees ingly easy for our customers to understand and administrate are to recommend Alecta as an employer to friends and their occupational pensions. acquaintances. We can see that the results are very good, We have also continued to digitalise customer meetings much higher than an industry average. through webinars for corporate customers, and launched identification using BankID to improve security when calling Direct engagement activities our customer service. We also introduced digital annual stateEven if the year has in many ways been pleasing and we have ments as standard, though with an option for customers to made progress, challenges remain and we must invest resources continue to receive these via ordinary mail. In order to provide to influence regulations and directives that so often miss the pension forecasts that are as realistic as possible, during the benefits, above all with regard to consumer protection, that are 4 ALECTA’S ANNUAL AND SUSTAINABILIT Y REPORT 2019 built into the Swedish model of collectively agreed occupational During the year, Alecta pensions. For example, together with the labour market parties, we have invested significant time and resources in order to delivered the best return secure reasonable capital requirements in the new occupational pension regulations. for 20 years and in parallel We have also endeavoured to create a balanced view of raised defined benefit pensions the pension system and shatter some common myths, in part through the publication of reports about the true economic and reduced risk premiums situation for pensioners and the views of young people on penfor health insurance. sions. It is disheartening to see that 25 per cent of young people aged 15–24 are very or fairly concerned about their future pension, and a full 46 per cent of them see themselves as bearing the main responsibility for their pension. In a similar way, it is worrying that our Pension Economist is often asked “Will there be any money left for me?” Many people seem to inaccurately believe that the Swedish pension system is in the midst of a crisis and retirement necessarily leads to poverty. This is simply not true – which Alecta has demonstrated during the year with our report on the economic situation for pensioners. Trust in the system One contributing factor for the low level of confidence in the pension system is probably reports that indicate extremely low pensions for young people today, even those with collectively agreed occupational pensions. The length of time remaining before today’s young people retire makes the pension forecasts highly sensitive to assumptions applied regarding, for example, wage growth and future returns. There is certainly no shortage of challenges, such as the low level of interest rates and the steadily increasing average life expectancy, and there are individuals who receive a low pension. In this respect, Alecta must continue to contribute in debates and propose solutions based on facts and in-depth understanding. When this annual and sustainability report is due for publication in mid-March, there is widespread concern in the world caused by the corona crisis, with a sharp decline in the stock market and a rapidly slowing economy. Alecta has a strong financial position and integrated protection in its products, and at the time of publication the crisis is not expected to constitute a long-term risk for pensions. We are monitoring developments and adapting allocations and working methods to the prevailing situation. I would like to thank all of the employees who from one day to the next began teleworking and continued to run the business with the same level of efficiency and quality. This shows in particular how far we have already come in digitalising our customer meetings and working methods. Magnus Billing CEO ALECTA’S ANNUAL AND SUSTAINABILIT Y REPORT 2019 5 Alecta’s long-term operational goals LONG-TERM OPERATIONAL GOALS FOLLOW-UP OUTCOME 2019 Secure and satisfied customers During 2019, we chose to evaluate target The average score from the year’s 5.4 Our customers should feel secure fulfilment by monitoring how satisfied surveys was: and satisfied, and have confidence in the private and corporate customers are Alecta. That’s why it is particularly who phone our customer service. important to ensure that the customers who contact us receive good serThe target for 2019 was that the cusfor private and corporate customers. The vice, and that Alecta enjoys a good tomers should give an average score of target was achieved with a comfortable reputation as a responsible player in at least 5.2 on a six-point scale. margin for both our customer groups. society. Low costs and high Costs are monitored through key perfor919 million efficiency mance indicators such as management Alecta’s operating expenses were SEK expense ratio and cost per insured. As the Alecta’s goal is to display world-class KPIs are strongly influenced by factors cost-effectiveness. Through our other than operating expenses, the ambimission, we have every opportunity tion is annually translated into a cost target excluding variable pay. We can thereby to achieve that goal. defined in millions of kronor. confirm that we also met the cost target by a comfortable margin in 2019. For 2019, the target was that Alecta’s operating expenses would not exceed SEK 942 million, excluding variable pay. The average return on the defined benefit portfolio over the past five years was: 5.8 per cent Good returns and strong We compare our return over time with the financial position industry. Alecta’s return should be competiThe target for our defined benefit portfotive, both in terms of the overall which is 0.2 percentage points below lio is an average annual return that is 0.5 return and the return on each asset the industry average. The target was not percentage points higher than the average class. We will work to achieve the achieved in 2019. Most important for the for the life insurance industry, excluding long-term target returns while defined benefit insurance is that we achieve Alecta, over the past five-year period. ensuring that we are in a sufficiently the indexation of pensions over time. strong financial position to withThe return on our defined contribution The average return on the defined benefit stand events that could occur savings product, Alecta Optimal Pension, savings product over the past five years was: according to our long-term risk 7.7 per cent should exceed Morningstar’s SEK Aggresassessment. sive Balanced funds index by 1.5 percentage points annually over the past five-year period. which is 0.7 percentage points better than the benchmark. Even if we exceeded the index, we did not reach our ambitious target for 2019. Morningstar’s balanced funds index includes funds with greater equity exposure than Alecta Optimal Pension. 6 ALECTA’S ANNUAL AND SUSTAINABILIT Y REPORT 2019 Alecta’s sustainability objectives LONG-TERM SUSTAINABILITY OBJECTIVES FOLLOW-UP OUTCOME 2019 Confidence in occupational pension Working for a sustainable pension system Alecta’s reports and involvement in schemes 63 per cent Our most important sustainability responsibility is to the debate have helped to shatter contribute towards a sustainable pension system – pension myths and influence legislaby offering good pensions, being a stable and reliation for occupational pensions. The ble pension company and a responsible investor. target is followed up by measuring Alecta is to promote confidence in the collectively confidence in occupational pensions. of salaried employees in Sweden have agreed occupational pensions by disseminating high or fairly high confidence in the knowledge and through lobbying. occupational pension system. Carbon footprint of equity portfolio, Investing in line with the climate goal of We have expanded reporting of clitCO2e/SEK million of income 1.5 degrees and the ambition of net zero mate risks in the portfolio and begun 5 climate impact by 2050 integrating climate data into the equi4 A long-term investment perspective means ty analysis. We influence the climate 3 the climate transition can be translated into both efforts of businesses by cooperating 2 risks and investment opportunities that contribute with other investors in the Net-Zero 1 4.7 3.4 3.0 3.0 to customer returns. Alecta’s ambition is to build Asset Owner Alliance and Climate 0 2016 2017 2018 2019 an investment portfolio that develops in line with Action 100+. More indicators and metrics of the climate goals. the results of this work are available on page 34 and pages 37–38. Optimise use of resources to Alecta follows up a range of indicators Increase in digital customer mailings 2.5 tonnes reduce environmental impact linked to our direct carbon footprint reduced paper consumption by from operations. Sustainability is strongly associated with the environment and Alecta’s environmental work is to This encompasses energy to operate reflect the focus on resources that characterises the properties, travel, paper consumption If an extraordinary mailing in work in general. This also entails greater focus on and customer letters. 2018 is also taken into account, modern working methods using digital tools and opportunities. the decrease totalled 14.5 tonnes. For more environmental indicators, see pages 35 and 39. Strengthen diversity across organisation Alecta is to be an attractive employer Percentage of women in management that harnesses and fosters diversity. 44/57 By strengthening and increasing diversity, and female managers at Alecta we gain a more innovative and effective This is taken into account in recruitbusiness and enhance expertise at all levels ment, further development and of the organisation. through cross-functional collaboration. per cent Read more on pages 35 and 41. ALECTA’S ANNUAL AND SUSTAINABILIT Y REPORT 2019 7 The occupational pensions market The Swedish pension system has three legs • Private savings which each individual is responsible for and puts money into. Two examples of long-term pension savings are investment savings accounts (ISK) and endowment policies. • An occupational pension is a component of an individual’s pension that is linked to his or her OCCUPATIONAL employment and is paid for by the employer. It is agreed between the employer and trade unions PENSION through a collective bargaining agreement (CBA), or provided directly by the employer if the company is not party to a CBA. An occupational pension usually comprises three components: retirement, disability and survivor’s protection. • The state pension is that part of a person’s pension which comes from the government. It consists of an earnings-related pension, a premium pension, a guaranteed pension, housing supplement for pensioners, income support for the elderly and a survivor’s pension. Everyone who has worked or lived in Sweden receives a state pension, which is based on the taxed income of an individual. There are also components of the state pension that are not earnings-related, such as the guaranteed pension. The state pension is life-long. Source: Pensions Agency and Alecta Does everyone have an occupational illness, and survivor’s protection, which is financial protection pension? for relatives in the event of death. Exactly what an occupational The vast majority of those who have an employment also have pension includes varies. some form of occupational pension. Nine of ten employees have a collectively agreed occupational pension and of those who do A large share of the whole pension not have an agreement just over half have some other sort of The occupational pension is very important for pensioners occupational pension. This means most employees have some today. On average, the occupational pension for 66–70 yearform of occupational pension, even if there are exceptions. olds accounts for 31 per cent of total income from the state pension, occupational pension and private pension savings. What does the occupational pension For people with an ITP agreement, the occupational pension include? accounts for 41 per cent of total pension income. For 71–75 The occupational pension comprises a retirement pension and year-olds, the occupational pension accounts for on average 23 various types of insurance against loss of income. The basic per cent of the total pension (30 per cent for people with ITP idea is that the occupational pension will provide compensaagreements). tion in cases where the state pension offers no protection or Occupational pensions are becoming more important. where the support is not at the same level as the employee’s According to Insurance Sweden, the employers’ organisation normal earnings. for the Swedish insurance industry, payments of the state Retirement pension, which is the financially largest component, is based around two systems: defined contribution and ANNUAL INCOME BY AGE GROUP AND TYPE OF INCOME defined benefit pension schemes. In a defined contribution (ALL IN SWEDEN IN 2016) pension, the size of the premium payments is fixed, while Annual income, kSEK pension payments depend on a number of factors, such as 350 remaining life and the return on the capital. In a defined ben300 efit pension, the opposite applies in that the payments to the 250 policy holder are fixed but the size of the employers payments depends on factors such as the investment return. Under the ITP 200 agreement, those born in 1979 or later end up in the defined 150 contribution plan. 100 In addition to retirement pension, the occupational pension 50 includes a number of other insurance policies. The most common are health insurance, which covers the loss of income in 0 55 years 60 years 65 years 70 years 75 years 80 years 85 years the event of illness, waiver of premium insurance, which covers Earned income Occupational pension State pension Private savings payments of premiums for retirement pensions in the event of Source: SCB 8 ALECTA’S ANNUAL AND SUSTAINABILIT Y REPORT 2019 THE OCCUPATIONAL PENSIONS MARKET 41 per cent pension increased by 35 per cent between 2011 and 2018, while payments of occupational pensions and private pensions rose by a full 43 per cent. What is special with the occupational pensions market? In most markets, the customer both decides and pays for what they buy. In the occupational pensions market, it is the of total pension income employer who pays while the employee often (but not always) can choose which company should manage his/her pension. consists of occupational Although both of these are considered as customers by Alecta, pension for those with ITP. the employee is insured and the employer is the policy holder. How does the competition work? We have chosen to comply with the industry standard, which means the competition is measured based on how much preCOMPETITION-EXPOSED OCCUPATIONAL PENSION miums the customers pay to the companies. There are comPREMIUMS OF APPROXIMATELY SEK 151 BILLION IN 2019 ponents of collectively agreed occupational pension schemes Nordnet 3 % Kåpan 1 % where neither the employers nor employees choose which Avanza 2 % Swedbank 4 % Alecta 18 % company is to manage the pension. Within the ITP scheme, for Nordea 2 % Handelsbanken 3 % example health insurance and the defined benefit retirement SEB 9 % pension, apply to insured persons with a salary of less than ten income base amounts. We do not include these as being part of Movestic 2 % AMF 13 % Danica 2 % the competition-exposed occupational pensions market. SPP 5 % The occupational pensions market is growing rapidly, measured in terms of paid-in premiums. During 2019, the premiums Skandia 12 % KPA 12 % exposed to competition amounted to SEK 151 billion, which Länsförsäkringar 5 % Folksam 6 % was in line with 2018. One explanation for this increase is that the newer collectively agreed pension schemes that are being Source: Insurance Sweden, SPV procured are more exposed to competition than those that Premium volume of SEK 151 billion (149.5), of which SEK 76.5 billion (71.7) in individual choices are slowly being phased out – for example, by the fully commade through collectively agreed selection centres and another SEK 74.5 billion (77.8) pertaining to individual occupational pensions, such as ten-fold earners who have chosen alternative ITP, tenpetition-exposed ITP 1 replacing ITP 2, which is only partly fold earners who have not chosen alternative ITP, salary exchanges, executive plans, employer-paid exposed to competition. deposit insurance, etc. The companies’ shares are shown in the diagram to the right, and further that no company has a dominating market position. Viewed over a slightly longer term, KPA, SEB and Alecta have grown the most. In 2019, Alecta accounted for about 18 per cent of all competition-exposed premiums related to savings in occupational pension schemes. ALECTA’S ANNUAL AND SUSTAINABILIT Y REPORT 2019 9 THE OCCUPATIONAL PENSIONS MARKET What importance do collective bargaining agreements have for the competition? Because most employees have collectively agreed occupational pensions, one might believe that the competition primarily occurs within the framework of the collective agreements’ selection centres, but that is not the case. The selection centres mediated SEK 76.5 billion on behalf of insured parties. This is nearly half of the competition-exposed occupational pensions market. Alongside the individual choices made in the selection centres, significant occupational pension premiums, SEK 74.5 billion, are channelled from the employers to pension providers in other ways. In this area, the competition may vary – in certain cases, only the employer decides, while in other cases there are various degrees of options for the employees. This is not so strange as occupational pensions are fundamentally “the employer’s market”. That the parties to the collective agreement have the right to decide which companies are allowed to compete on the selection centres’ platforms has a great impact on competition in the entire market. Procurements by the parties enforces efficiency enhancements among the companies, which enables fees to be also lowered outside the collectively agreed occupational pensions. 10 ALECTA’S ANNUAL AND SUSTAINABILIT Y REPORT 2019 We asked a few of our customers what occupational pensions mean to them and their employees. Competition is tough in the IT sector for competent Maria Lavas employees. Demand for IT expertise in companies is rising as more work duties are digitalised. Maria Total Compensation Manager, CGI Lavas, who works for the IT consultant CGI, has noticed that occupational pensions are becoming a more attractive benefit. For CGI, with employees that are also attractive to competitors, it is important that employees fully We are receiving more questions understand the benefits they have. Explaining the about our occupational pension occupational pension scheme is a key competitive advantage. agreements, both during recruitment and from employees. “I focus on the fees when I explain why we have People are beginning to undercollectively agreed occupational pensions. Employees often concentrate on premiums, but the best stand that it is a very good thing about occupational pensions is that they are benefit. Particularly among procured for so many people that fees become younger target groups. extremely low. This eventually turns into a lot of money.” ALECTA’S ANNUAL AND SUSTAINABILIT Y REPORT 2019 11 A good pension A good pension is based on three components – low fees, good returns and comprehensible and easily accessible information. That way customers can appreciate the value of a secure old age and a secure pension system. Low fees key factor for good pension Easily accessible information An ITP-insured person with a pension in Alecta’s defined conEasily accessible and comprehensible information is a prerequitribution product pays a fee of 0.09 per cent of the managed site for the customers’ understanding of the value of their penassets, subject to a ceiling of SEK 600 per year, which is among sions. That’s why we strive continuously to improve informathe lowest fees in the industry. As a comparison, the fee for a tion to our customers. Close-to-the-customer development is commercially brokered mix fund normally ranges from 0.25 to important for Alecta and we are proud to involve the customers 2 per cent. Thanks to collective procurement, cost awareness in our improvement effort. For example, we analyse incoming and economies of scale, Alecta can reduce the fee, which benecalls to improve the answers and functions on our website. fits the value of the pension. During the year, we have made it much easier to report an 0.09 account for pension withdrawals, improved the way we measin fee of assets under ure customer satisfaction and worked to persuade more people % management, but with to choose to receive information from Alecta in digital form via an annual ceiling of My Pages or the Kivra digital letterbox. SEK 600 per year. Satisfied customers a measurement of quality Good returns with in-house management Our aim is to have secure and satisfied customers, which is why Alecta manages assets of over SEK 960 billion. Under our we implement regular surveys by text message to customers management model, which is unique for such a large portfolio, who phone our customer service. The text message includes a nearly all asset management is conducted in-house. Our equity survey with six short questions about how the customer expeinvestments are concentrated to a limited number of sharerienced our service. There is also a possibility of writing a text holdings, just over 100, in which we hold significant stakes and answer, which is what many customers do. The results shows a have good insight. This is an efficient model that results in low high level of customer satisfaction: 5.4 for both private and corfees and good returns. At year-end 2019, the average annual porate customers on a 6-point scale. Alecta’s goal for 2019 was return over the past five years for our defined contribution 5.2 for both customer groups, which we exceeded. The majority pension product, Alecta Optimal Pension, was 7.7 per cent, of text answers are also positive, for example: compared with 5.8 per cent for the defined benefit product “Great, the assistance I received was faster and clearer than from within ITP 2. the company where I have the rest of my occupational pension.” “The person who helped me was highly professional and helpful. I couldn’t be more satisfied as a customer.” ROLLING FIVE-YEAR AVERAGE RETURN, IN COMPARISON WITH MORNINGSTAR Planning pension withdrawals % 16 Most future pensioners are interested in planning and experi14 menting with their pension withdrawals. Alecta offers all pri12 vate customers approaching retirement an opportunity to test 10 and plan their pension withdrawals by using the Pension 8 Planner service – a highly appreciated service with approxi6 mately 105,000 unique visitors in 2019. However, the Pension 4 Planner (Pensionsplanerare) only covers part of private cus2 tomers’ pensions, namely the part saved with Alecta. In Octo0 2012 2013 2014 2015 2016 2017 2018 2019 ber, the Withdrawal Planner (Uttagsplanerare) was launched ITP 1 Morningstar Sverige blandfond aggressiv by minPension. Customers who are nearing retirement can use Defined benefit insurance this Planner to experiment with their entire pension. When 12 ALECTA’S ANNUAL AND SUSTAINABILIT Y REPORT 2019 A SUSTAINABLE PENSION SYSTEM – A GOOD PENSION customers have finished planning on minPension.se and decide approximately 470,000 paper copies of annual statements and to withdraw their pension they are referred to Alecta’s Pension control data. As of 2020, these will be sent digitally, unless Planner for those parts related to Alecta. The tools make it easthe customer requests otherwise. We also began work to ier for customers to calculate how their pension is affected by improve our digital customer meetings by holding webinars as various choices, for example, withdrawal periods, and facilitate a complement to physical training courses for our corporate the drawing of pension. About 70 per cent of the customers who customers. make changes to their pension withdrawals choose to do so themselves through the Pension Planner. Continued digitalisation simplifies and improves A growing number of our customers are choosing to communicate with us through our digital channels, which makes communication more flexible and effective. In 2019, more customers chose to receive communications from us through the digital letterbox Kivra. 2019 was also the last year we sent Photo: Scandinav/Johnér bildbyrå ALECTA’S ANNUAL AND SUSTAINABILIT Y REPORT 2019 13 Stable and reliable pension provider The occupational pension is a part of the Swedish pension system and Alecta thus has a considerable social responsibility. We need to be financially stable and cost-aware while also ensuring a high level of consumer protection. It is important to act responsibly and with great respect for the rules which govern our activities. Financial stability over time for occupational retirement provision (IORP II) in Sweden. Alecta has a clear focus on cost effectiveness and great respect For Alecta, the new law offers an opportunity to transition into for our role as a manager of our customer money. Pensions are a mutual occupational pension company. managed over a long term and small differences can have major effects over time. Our relationship with a private customer can Occupational pension regulations extend for more than 80 years, and with corporate customers In 2018, the government presented a proposal for how other even longer. Efficient control of costs also adds stability, which occupational pensions directives could be implemented into enables us to keep our fees low over time. This is something Swedish law. The proposal resulted in a large number of conthat truly benefits the pension and reduces the employers’ sultation responses. Following the consultation round, on 4 costs for occupational pensions. September 2019 the government published a bill “En ny reglerGood control of costs in combination with a strong financial ing för tjänstepensionsföretag”, which contains proposals for position provides resilience and the conditions for low fees. a new law for occupational pension companies. The Swedish The solvency ratio is a measure of our financial strength, and Financial Supervisory Authority, which received a broad of the extent to which our assets cover future commitments. At mandate to issue directives connected to the proposed law, year-end 2019, Alecta had a solvency ratio of 169 per cent (161), submitted its proposals for regulations and general guidelines which is well above the statutory requirement of 104 per cent for comment on 8 July 2019. These proposals for regulations for traditional insurance. and general guidelines also caused debate with concern that the legislator’s ambition to create a high degree of harmoniGood regulatory compliance is a must sation in relation to the Solvency II Directive (which applies Pensions and insurance are subject to extensive regulatory to all forms of insurance business) when implementing IORP requirements and the industry is licenced. Regulators monitor II was going too far. Alecta believes that one of the main aims that Alecta and other companies in the industry comply with was thereby lost – to establish regulations specifically adapted the applicable regulations. Alecta has a focus on ensuring that to occupational pension operations. Above all, two questions it complies with existing laws, regulations and instructions are significant for Alecta and have been discussed extensively of public authorities and is prepared for future regulations. with strong opinions from the industry’s various interests and Alecta’s work with regulatory compliance is part of the internal companies. control system in our corporate governance model. The first question concerns the level of the risk-sensitive capital requirement as proposed for occupational pension Regulatory changes in 2019 companies. The government stated in the bill that the aim On 10 June 2019, amendments were introduced to the EU of the requirement and the level of the risk-sensitive capital Shareholder Rights Directive in Sweden. The regulatory changrequirement was to correspond to the traffic light model es will impose more stringent requirements for the disclosure already in existence that was developed by the Swedish Finanof information about Alecta’s investment activities and suscial Supervisory Authority to measure financial risks. The tainability efforts. Swedish Financial Supervisory Authority’s detailed regulations However, the year was largely characterised by work with and general guidelines resulted instead in much higher capital the new occupational pension regulations as a new law for requirements. occupational pension companies was, after many twists and The second question concerns opportunities for the parties turns, enacted on 15 December 2019. The law implements the to the collective agreement to continue to decide how customEU Directive on the activities and supervision of institutions ers will receive information about their occupational pension. 14 ALECTA’S ANNUAL AND SUSTAINABILIT Y REPORT 2019 A SUSTAINABLE PENSION SYSTEM – STABLE AND RELIABLE PENSION PROVIDER When the Finance Committee addressed the proposal for a Increased transparency of sustainable investments new regulation concerning occupational pension companies In June 2019, new rules were introduced regarding the discloin November, the Committee announced that the government sure of information about insurance companies’ investment would come back with further details about the management activities and corporate governance. The rules, which are from of the solvency regulations, freedom of contract for parties to the EU Shareholder Rights Directive, involve requirements for the collective agreement with regard to information to comhow account is taken of environmental, social and governance panies and employees about occupational pensions, insurance (ESG) factors in the investment process and how the company for self-employed persons as well as supplementary insurance. exercises its rights as an important shareholder in listed comThis followed lobbying from the Confederation of Swedish panies. Alecta is to report using the new rules for the first time Enterprise, LO and PTK. in 2020, pertaining to the 2019 financial year. Similar rules are When Parliament subsequently decided to adopt the new also part of the Occupational Pension Company Act and in the law for occupational pension companies, a number of noticEuropean Commission’s legislative proposals on financial suses were published that the government needs to deal with in tainability. spring 2020. This will result in amendments to the new law in Overall, these new regulations entail clearer requirements 2020. The Swedish Financial Supervisory Authority’s Regulaon Alecta to describe its investment process and how it takes tions and General Guidelines were enacted on 1 January 2020. account of ESG factors. When Alecta has obtained a complete picture of the regulations that will come into force, we will conduct a thorough assessment of whether the new regulations are beneficial to Alecta’s operations and particularly for our customers. ALECTA’S ANNUAL AND SUSTAINABILIT Y REPORT 2019 15 A SUSTAINABLE PENSION SYSTEM – A STABLE AND TRUSTED COMPANY We asked a few of our customers what occupational pensions mean to them and their employees. Lena Dahlin Lena works at one of Sweden’s largest amusement Head of Payroll, Liseberg parks. Liseberg is a workplace associated with entertainment, concerts and fun. Pensions may not be the first thing you think about when you hear the name We work proactively to inform Liseberg. “The average age of our personnel is very low. For employees about collective agreemany, this is their first permanent job so retirement ments, benefits and obligations may seem far off for the majority.” So how does Lena and her colleagues go about as well as terms and conditions of informing their 3,500 employees about occupational the insurance and pension. They pensions? then often simply assume that they “I usually explain that the pension industry suffers from a surplus of information. This may be a legacy have an occupational pension. They from their parents who were around when the system trust that they will receive a good was restructured. There was a period when it was difpension, which they also receive ficult to understand. But the launch of services such as minPension and other smart solutions has made it through the collective agreement easier to understand. I usually emphasise that it is not and the collaboration with Alecta. that difficult, and try to keep it as simple as possible.” 16 ALECTA’S ANNUAL AND SUSTAINABILIT Y REPORT 2019 A SUSTAINABLE PENSION SYSTEM – STABLE AND RELIABLE PENSION PROVIDER Pension Economist Staffan Ström Why does Alecta have a Pension Economist? Frequently asked questions to the Pension Everyone should be given an good opportunity to make Economist? well-founded decisions. The pension can then generate the “Will there be any money left when it is time for me to retire?” highest possible value and can be tailored to everybody’s stagThis is one of the most common questions asked about penes in life. Sellers of pension-savings products usually have a sions. A survey conducted during the year by Alecta and the knowledge advantage over savers; such as in terms of underUngdomsbarometern youth survey also illustrates the widestanding the impact of fees and how the insurances work. spread mistrust of the pension system: a significant percentage To counteract this, Alecta has a Pension Economist with a of young people state that they were already concerned about mandate and responsibility to challenge the industry. The Pentheir pensions when they attended upper secondary school and sion Economist can inspire, debate and help consumers gain feel responsibility lies first and foremost with themselves. increased knowledge of pensions. In actual fact, the Swedish pension system is robust and provides in most cases a decent pension. Certainly, there are The Pension Economist’s blog challenges in the future: two of these are the rapidly rising life Alecta’s Pension Economist, Staffan Ström, works actively to expectancy and the low level of interest rates. But the pension stimulate a debate on how to develop and improve Sweden’s system is better than its reputation and discussions would pension system. The debate is conducted in the media, through benefit from more nuance. Alecta wants to provide a fact-based participation in inquiries and panel debates, in meetings with view of pensions and the changes we face, and the Pension researchers and politicians and through training programmes Economist has a key role to play in this work. and lectures. For the past couple of years, we have also run the Staffan Ström blog. Through this blog, our Pension Economist provides guidance on how to affect one’s pension and analyses current issues in the pension area. The readers are mainly private individuals, but the list of subscribers also includes politicians, journalists, union and employer representatives and senior executives in the pension industry. Questions pursued by the Pension Economist during the year The Pension Economist works every day to provide inspiration, information and education about pensions. One day, this could be briefing an employer network about current pension issues. The next, it may be providing guidance to employees at a client company about the options offered by the occupational pension. The Pension Economist also works to strengthen future decision makers in occupational pensions through lectures at Staffan’s blog: staffansstrom.se the country’s universities and university colleges. In 2019, the Pension Economist was invited on several occasions to speak about the changes planned to the state pension. Many people wonder what higher retirement ages could mean to them and how occupational pensions will be affected in this new environment. Other recurring themes have been to talk about common myths and misconceptions about pensions, in part based on Alecta’s major study of the economic situation for pensioners presented at the beginning of the year. ALECTA’S ANNUAL AND SUSTAINABILIT Y REPORT 2019 17 Responsible investor Our ambition is to help generate long-term value in our investments and for society. By taking care of the management ourselves and having relatively few holdings and clear evaluation processes, we can achieve sustainable and favourable conditions for good pensions. Alecta – a major player believe will contribute to returns on our customers’ capital. With more than SEK 960 billion in assets under management, With few companies in the portfolio, we also have time to Alecta is a significant international pension fund manager and meet representatives of the companies’ management teams, one of the largest operators in the Swedish financial market. As which we do continuously with essentially all of our holdings. one of the largest owners of listed Swedish companies, we can Through discussions, we improve our understanding of how influence the sustainability management activities of the comthe companies are managed and of their approach to sustainpanies we invest in through our investing activities. ability. Dialogue is our most important channel to exert and influence, and openness and transparency are prerequisites. In-house portfolio management is a Companies that do not meet our criteria do not qualify for prerequisite inclusion in our portfolio. Alecta has chosen to manage its customers’ pension capital largely in-house and engages in active asset management. This A structured – and certified – investment means that our investments are not dependent on an index process and that each investment is the result of thorough internal Alecta’s investment process takes into account both sustainaresearch. Alecta invests in shares, debt securities and alternability and return potential. The process comprises a combinative assets, mainly in Sweden, Europe and the United States. tion of information gathering, internal analysis and screening. By controlling our investments ourselves, we have potential to It is applied for all equity and corporate bonds, which account choose and influence precisely those companies we believe can for nearly 60 per cent of our total assets. Sustainability is one contribute to long-term value creation. factor in the analysis, both prior to an investment and in continuous follow-up. For more information on how the assessment Few selected companies add weight to is carried out, please refer to our 2019 Ownership Report. The our ability to influence report is available at alecta.se. Alecta’s equity portfolio consists of just over 100 listed shareESG4Real is a new certification issued by the Responsible holdings. As we invest for the long term, environmental conInvestors Alliance International (RIA International). RIA was siderations, social issues and corporate governance issues are founded by a number of players in the finance industry, priimportant criteria in our choices. The companies we invest in marily asset managers from Sweden and the Netherlands. In must have a business model that we understand and that we June 2019, Alecta became, as the world’s first asset manager, TOTAL INVESTMENT PORTFOLIO GEOGRAPHIC DISTRIBUTION OF SHARES UK Denmark Alternative investments 10,4 % Germany 5.6 % 3.7 % 3.5 % Switzerland Shares Debt 11.9 % 42,7 % securities Sweden 39.2 % 46,9 % Rest of world 9.7 % USA 26.4 % A complete list of Alecta’s holdings in shares, participations and real estate is available on alecta.se. 18 ALECTA’S ANNUAL AND SUSTAINABILIT Y REPORT 2019 A SUSTAINABLE PENSION SYSTEM – RESPONSIBLE INVESTOR Alecta’s investment Information process gathering Internal analysis Screening • Meetings with NO BUY companies Alectas CRITICISM NEW • Return potential • Reports ownership INVESTMENT • External sustaina• Sustainability NEGATIVE policy bility analysis RESPONSE REFRAIN Alectas ägarpolicy • Meetings with companies • Return potential Alectas EXISTING NO • Reports • Sustainability ownership CRITICISM HOLD INVESTMENT • External sustainapolicy bility analysis CRITICISM Sustainability analysis – Indicators for human rights, labour standards, environment and anti-corruption. POSITIVE HOLD – Reviews after incidents involving non-compliance with international conventions. ANALYSIS RESPONSE – No investments in businesses which violate conventions, are associated with controversial weapons DIALOGUE WITH or in mining companies with more than 10 per cent turnover from thermal coal and energy companies COMPANY NEGATIVE with over 30 per cent of their turnover from energy production based on thermal coal. SELL RESPONSE certified in accordance with ESG4Real’s principles. It is hoped Alecta’s climate targets that the certificate will help pension savers to choose managers For several years, Alecta has systematically measured and folwho take sustainability into account. lowed up the equity portfolio’s carbon footprint and reported The certificate requires that Alecta refrains from investing the results on the website. Since the end of 2017, Alecta has a in companies active in controversial weapons (such as cluster long-term climate target, whereby the equity portfolio should bombs or anti-personnel mines), that listed shares and corpobe managed in line with the Paris Agreement’s two-degree rate bonds are screened for breaches of norms, that sustainabiltarget, which was tightened further during the year. ity considerations are integrated into investment decisions and In conjunction with the UN summit on climate change in that Alecta exercises active ownership through dialogue and New York in autumn 2019, Alecta, together with a number of voting. The certificate applies to listed shares and corporate major pension and insurance companies, launched the climate bonds. initiative Net-Zero Asset Owner Alliance (AOA). The ambition is that all members’ investment portfolios are to be climate Corporate governance, nomination neutral by 2050, with clear interim targets along the way. Memcommittees and voting bers are to strive for a clear transition in their investments, in Alecta exercises active ownership by participating in nominaline with the tougher ambition of the Paris Agreement to limit tion committees and voting at shareholders’ meetings, but also warming to 1.5 degrees above pre-industrial levels. Memberby means of continuous dialogue with our holdings. In 2019, ship also entails a promise to observe scientific evidence from we voted at all shareholders’ meetings in which we hold shares, IPCC, present annual reports of work and to set up interim with one exception. In the run-up to the 2019 AGM season, targets for every five-year period, exactly as stated in the Paris Alecta participated in 22 nomination processes. In Swedish Agreement. companies, it is normal practice for major shareholders to be members of nomination committees and propose directors. Long-term and broad perspective on risk Alecta has a long-term approach as owner and our activities are For the second consecutive year, Alecta has compiled a climate guided by the ambition to ensure that each company’s Board report for the whole investment portfolio and with a broader of Directors has the best possible composition. We therefore approach to carbon footprint. Work on the report led to several attach great importance to sustainability issues and particuimportant insights and Alecta has been active in the industry larly to diversity, which we believe ensures the Board has a and with government agencies in exchanging methods to stress good skills mix. We aim to have gender equality on boards, and test investments on the basis of different climate scenarios. in companies where Alecta was a member of the Nomination Alecta’s Board of Directors is the recipient of the climate report, Committee in 2019, an average of 44 per cent of members were which is part of annual reporting of risk and solvency to the women. Swedish Financial Supervisory Authority. ALECTA’S ANNUAL AND SUSTAINABILIT Y REPORT 2019 19 A SUSTAINABLE PENSION SYSTEM – RESPONSIBLE INVESTOR Increased investments in green bonds In a green bond, the capital is earmarked for climateand environment-oriented projects, such as investments in renewable energy, water purification or environmentally friendly infrastructure. Alecta has the same required rate of return for an investment in a green bond as for other bonds. However, we demand Ägarrapport additional documentation from the issuer of a green bond. The 2019 reason is to find out how the money will be used, and ensure that the issuer applies an industry standard for green bonds and that an independent party has confirmed the quality of the issuer’s framework. In 2019, Alecta invested approximately SEK 10 billion in green bonds and now has over SEK 40 billion invested in total in green bonds issued by 25 different issuers. The issuers include Stora Enso, Kommuninvest and Vasakronan. Alecta has also invested just over SEK 4 billion in assets that, Alecta’s Ownership Report is available in addition to financial returns, also measure social or environat alecta.se (in Swedish). mental benefits, what are known as impact investments. In total, these investments amounted to nearly SEK 11 billion at the end of the year. SHARE OF WOMEN ON CORPORATE BOARDS, CARBON FOOTPRINT, ALECTA’S EQUITY PORTFOLIO ALECTA IN NOMINATION COMMITTEES Share of women, % tCO2e / Mkr SEK million of revenue 45 44 % 5 40 % 41 % 40 % 41 % 41 % 40 4 27 Tonnes of carbon dioxide 35 3 equivalents. CO2e emitted by businesses per 30 2 15 SEK million of revenue. 12 25 1 7 3.4 3.0 3.0 20 0 2017 2018 2019 2017 2018 2019 Large Cap companies Alecta’s holdings Share of female AGM-elected directors in companies where Alecta has a seat on the The emission measurements follow the global GHG Protocol standard and are based on the nomination committee compared with the Female Representation Index of the Second latest available carbon dioxide data for direct (Scope 1) and indirect (Scope 2) emissions Swedish National Pension Fund (AP2), which shows the average for large cap companies. in connection with consumption of energy. Emissions of greenhouse gases are measured in Note that chief executives are excluded from the calculation. terms of carbon dioxide equivalents (CO2e). This is a unit of measurement which makes it possible to uniformly measure greenhouse gases. Alecta reports according to the recomSource: Second Swedish National Pension Fund /Nordic Investor Services. mendation from Insurance Sweden. 20 ALECTA’S ANNUAL AND SUSTAINABILIT Y REPORT 2019 A SUSTAINABLE PENSION SYSTEM – RESPONSIBLE INVESTMENTS We asked a few of our customers what occupational pensions mean to them and their employees. Helen Nordhall and Merih Hedman HR Manager and Payroll and benefits process expert, GE Healthcare Helen and Merih are responsible for staff matters and work with benefits and pensions at GE Healthcare. As part of their role, they manage and provide information about occupational pensions, someWe are working hard to explain that thing they are both passionate about. When they assumed responsibility for the area in as an employer we are helping to 2019, they decided to streamline communications. give employees a good pension. For Merih and Helen stress that communication is key to instance, we have created a pension creating interest in pension issues. At the same time as they believe employers, government agencies and information board, organised a universities need to work harder to provide inforOccupational Pension Day and promation on the issues: vided continuous information about “We believe a major information campaign is collective agreements. Of course, needed in society about occupational pensions so some people think retirement is a more people understand what a fantastic benefit it long way off and they do not need to is. Some people find the pension system difficult to understand, but we can also refer them to Alecta, care just yet, but this is changing. which is usually very good at explaining everything.” ALECTA’S ANNUAL AND SUSTAINABILIT Y REPORT 2019 21 A sustainable real estate owner Alecta is one of Sweden’s largest real estate owners with commercial properties, public-sector properties, logistics properties and hotels, primarily in Stockholm, Gothenburg and Jönköping. We also own residential properties, through property funds or limited liability companies that are jointly owned with other property developers in the Nordic region, Europe and in the US. Properties have a direct impact on society and the environour properties. This includes a particular focus on energy ment, which requires Alecta, our business partners and suppliefficiency. We are to promote renewable energy by procuring ers to act responsibly in all parts of their business operations. renewable electricity, such as wind and hydropower, and by Our vision is that we can build security for the future. We taking advantage of the opportunity to provide the properties believe sustainability work helps to create value for tenants with renewable energy, for example, from solar panels. and visitors to the properties and thereby also for Alecta’s cusIn its directly owned Swedish properties, Alecta’s target is to tomers through higher returns over time. Sustainability work reduce energy consumption, measured as a normal year’s conmeans we strive to conduct operations in a socially, ethically sumption of electricity, district heating and cooling in terms and environmentally sustainable manner. of kWh per square meters, by 3 per cent each year according to In 2019, sustainability work in real estate operations customary standards. During 2019, consumption decreased 5.9 advanced further through our sustainability targets and focus per cent compared with 2018. Since 2015, all of Alecta’s directly areas. We are to utilise resources efficiently, make good enviowned Swedish properties, including our head office, only ronmental choices in business operations and offer safe and use origin-labelled electricity from renewable energy sources. healthy environments, in and around the properties. Energy purchased in 2019 generated a total of 1,136 tonnes of CO₂ emissions, mainly from district heating. Environmentally certified properties and In 2018, an initiative was launched involving the use of solar safe environments cells and four facilities have been installed to date at Alecta’s Alecta environmentally certifies properties where possible, retail sites, Värmdö Köpcentrum, Asecs, Flygfyren and Bredden and 11 properties were certified in 2019 according to BREEAM (former Infracity). The actual annual capacity of solar electricity In-Use, which is an international environmental certificate for from these facilities was just over 868,000 kWh in 2019. existing buildings. Alecta thereby has 19 environmentally certified buildings, which constituted 40 per cent of Alecta’s total Collaboration for the environment lettable floor area at the end of 2019. These include Lustgården Cooperation with tenants and suppliers is often crucial if envi10 and 18 in Stockholm with an “Excellent” rating, which is ronmental initiatives in properties are to have a lasting impact the highest rating available in BREEAM In-Use. The Välmågan and the fullest possible effect. 8 property, also in Stockholm, received a “Platinum” rating, which is the highest rating available in the LEED environmenProfitable energy investments tal certificate system. Alecta has owned the Giraffen shopping mall in Kalmar since In autumn 2019, we inventoried the properties in relation 1991. The property has an area of approximately 46,000 m², to their potential to promote sustainable transportation, for and a single tenant uses almost one quarter of this space. The example, charging points for electric cars and parking facilities tenant has invested in new refrigeration equipment that enables for bicycles. its waste heat to be fed into the property’s heating system. As part of providing safe environments in and around our The waste heat from the refrigeration equipment is in this way properties, two of our retail sites received a security certificate recovered and generates an equivalent of some 700 MWh/year. under the SAFE Shopping Centers system. Giraffen’s total heating amounts to about 2,500 MWh/year, which means the recovered heat will cover some 28 per cent of Climate, energy and solar cells Giraffen’s total heating needs and replace some of the property’s We take account of climate and environmental aspects in purchasing of external district heating. conjunction with the design, construction and operation of 22 ALECTA’S ANNUAL AND SUSTAINABILIT Y REPORT 2019 A SUSTAINABLE PENSION SYSTEM – RESPONSIBLE INVESTOR Reuse and recycling During 2019, additional initiatives were started to improve In 2018, work began to improve the recycling performance waste management in the properties through an inventory of of the Terminalen 3 property, better known as the World Trade existing opportunities in the buildings for an effective manageCenter in Stockholm. In 2019, the project resulted in the ment of waste and bulky waste. recycling of: • 811 kilos of plastic packaging – the amount of plastic Water needed to manufacture 6,488 flower pots Water consumption in the directly owned properties amounted • 102,353 kilos of household waste – the amount needed to to 204,647 m³ during the year, or 0.47 m³ per sq.m. Measuring heat 16 houses for one year and reporting water consumption increases awareness of how • 660 kilos of metal – the amount of material needed to much water is used per year and allows us to set targets aimed manufacture 55 bicycles at reducing consumption. • 50,257 kilos of paper and corrugated board – corresponding to 704 trees • 17,239 kilos of glass packaging – the amount of recycled glass needed to manufacture 57,465 glass bottles The Välmågan property. Photo: Jenny Lagerqvist ALECTA’S ANNUAL AND SUSTAINABILIT Y REPORT 2019 23 An attractive workplace Alecta’s ambition is to be the most attractive employer in the industry. As an employer, we invest in activities that promote health, motivation, skills development and good leadership. Attractive employer want to obtain in-depth information within a certain area, and At the end of the year, Alecta had 343 employees and we confollow-up discussions with new employees after six months tinuously work to be an attractive employer. We are proud of as well as after one year of employment. We also conduct exit the good scores we get in our employee surveys, the number interviews with all those who leave the company and overall, of applicants for our vacant positions and the fact that our this continuously gives us a good picture of what our employemployees choose to stay with us for a long time. ees think of Alecta as an employer. Annual employee survey Continuous learning a prerequisite Alecta conducts an annual employee survey to monitor the sitAt Alecta, we focus on continuous learning and skills developuation at the company. The survey provides comparability over ment. In 2018, we began to develop a model to clarify the develtime, such as how our employees perceive Alecta as an employopment paths in the company. This work continued in 2019 er and their wellbeing. The response rate has long been excepand more departments have detailed their development steps. tionally high, which was also the case in 2019, when 94 per cent We have also launched a new structure for product training responded. This is not only gratifying but also provides a credprogrammes, which are offered at various levels of difficulty. ible result. We are pleased that the majority of our employees The aim is that the employees will both experience that they feel motivated in their work, that the dialogue between managhave good tools for developing in their current role and also ers and employees is highly rated and that our employees have be able to identify future development paths. Each employee a considerable level of trust in their managers. A clear majority is required to have a skills development plan that is followed would also recommend Alecta as an employer. In addition to up through our goals and skills portal. During the year, our the employee survey, we implement smaller surveys when we employees spent an average of 42 hours on skills development. 24 ALECTA’S ANNUAL AND SUSTAINABILIT Y REPORT 2019 A SUSTAINABLE PENSION SYSTEM – AN ATTRACTIVE WORKPLACE Modern working method During the year, we took additional steps in our move towards a more modern working method. As part of this work, we held thematic weeks with lectures and meetings together with inspiring individuals from various industries who shared ideas and experiences of how we can use new technology and working methods. We also held a half-day of joint creativity and to challenge how we currently work. The aim of this work was partly to spread an agile approach within the entire organisation with a focus on utilising everyone’s skills and interests and to encourage employees to dare to try something new and to continuously review solutions, and also to shorten lead times and enable a clearer focus when we pursue our business development activities. This means cross-functional teams are set up to resolve a specific improvement or challenge and this work is divided into stages with interim targets, or sprints, when solutions are tested following each sprint. This working method is traditionally used in IT development, which is why actual implementation of the work59 ing method is being tested in four pilot projects. The project has proceeded well and resulted in more effective analyses and calculations. This success has inspired the use of the method of employees and tools in other areas than IT-related development. % at Alecta are women. 57 Long-term work for diversity Alecta has an even gender balance at company level and among of managers at managers. However, significant differences can exist between % Alecta are women. the various departments. In an effort to promote internal The figures refer to employees of the dynamics and to ensure a breadth of expertise and experience, parent company Alecta. we are working with a long-term approach to achieve greater diversity. This involves an awareness during the recruitment process and in working with leadership. Over the past two years, some of our departments have seen clear results in respect of diversity in age and gender. It is just as important to identify potential obstacles to Alecta’s ambition to be an inclusive and creative workplace, for example, by raising awareness of abusive behaviour. Discussions have taken place in various forums (at Group, departmental and corporate level) concerning the term abusive behaviour in order to increase awareness of what it is, how to stop it and what to do if it happens. ALECTA’S ANNUAL AND SUSTAINABILIT Y REPORT 2019 25 Sustainability supplement This section describes how sustainability work is governed, as well as processes linked to the framework for sustainability reporting, GRI. The outcome of sustainability targets and indicators, and comments on these are also reported here. In certain respects, this entails data supplementing the information on pages 12–25 and consolidated data. Alecta’s sustainability work Organisation for sustainability Our sustainability work is part of delivering Alecta’s overall Alecta has appointed a Head of Sustainability, who reports to mission, to maximise the value of collectively agreed occupathe Head of Communication and Sustainability in the mantional pensions for both corporate and private customers. It is agement team. The Head of Sustainability works to establish to support business objectives by contributing to efficient and greater clarity on Alecta’s priorities and coordinates the comvalue-creating core business, managing risks and legitimacy pany’s sustainability work through shared objectives, tools issues and striving to have a positive impact on society. and reporting. In the Asset Management department, there is In 2019, within the framework of Alecta’s sustainability pola Head of Responsible Investments. Together with representicy, we have firmly established within the company the overall atives from Communication & Sustainability, HR, Finance, sustainability targets and indicators adopted in 2018, to be Compliance, Client, IT and Purchasing, these form a steering reported moving forward. The targets and indicators reflect group for sustainability, which is led by the Head of Sustainthe most important sustainability issues identified in external ability. The team is responsible for targets and indicators in and internal stakeholder dialogues. An overview of these is terms of both initiating activities and follow-up. given in the table below and are set out in more detail later in The Head of Asset Management leads an ESG Forum, the section. TARGETS AND INDICATORS 2019–2023* Focus areas SUSTAINABLE AMBIRESPONSIBLE AMBIENVIRONMENT AMBIEMPLOYEES AND AMBIPENSION SYSTEM  TION INVESTMENTS TION AND ETHICS TION DIVERSITY TION Overall Working for a sustainable Investing in line with the climate goal Optimise use of Strengthen diversity sustainability pension system of 1.5 degrees and the ambition of net resources to reduce throughout the objectives zero climate impact by 2050 environmental impact organisation Indicators Trust Active ownership Environmental impact Employees Trust in collectively agreed Number of nomination committees Energy consumption Forms of employment occupational pension schemes Opinions on Alecta’s Carbon footprint of Diversity of boards of directors Diversity and development sustainability work operations and travels Stable company Voting at general meetings Paper consumption Age, gender and turnover Economic value generated Screening of investments Ethics and integrity Training and education and distributed Customer complaints and ESG dialogues Skills development plans customer data Portfolio companies’ climate reporting Regulatory compliance Performance reviews Work environment and Carbon footprint Whistleblowing employment conditions Training, ethics and Collective bargaining Responsible investments integrity agreements Investments with a measurable social Responsible purchases Sick leave or environmental impact Real estate Suppliers’ data Environmentally labelled properties Code of Conduct Environmental performance, properties The significance of the symbols in the column headed ‘Ambition’ in the above table is described * The overall goals are long term, but as the sustainability work progresses, the goals below. ‘Ambition’ refers to the direction sought for the developments of each indicator; may be broadened and further indicators may be added. Indicates that we strive for increased volume, a positive trend or a decrease in impact Indicates that we are transparent about our work, results or data 26 ALECTA’S ANNUAL AND SUSTAINABILIT Y REPORT 2019 SUSTAINABILITY SUPPLEMENT which comprises the heads of the asset classes Equity, Fixed Code of Conduct Income and Real Assets, the Head of Corporate Governance, Alecta’s Code of Conduct includes four areas that are each the Head of Responsible Investments, the Head of External regulated in a number of separate governing documents and Communication and Alecta’s Head of Sustainability. Alecta’s are described below: ESG forum addresses strategic matters involving work with responsible investments and is a monitoring forum, which • Ethics: Describes how we should take an ethical approach to includes the processes that are part of the ESG4Real certifiour work, business relations and investments. Also encomcation. The Head of Asset Management leads an ESG group passes the whistleblower function and confidentiality. comprising the Head of Corporate Governance, the Head of Responsible Investments, and an ESG analyst who drives the • Managing conflicts of interest: Identifies the risk and the development of ESG work within asset management with a management of conflicts of interest or situations where it focus on investments. may be difficult to be objective. Alecta’s Head of Corporate Governance drives the company’s corporate governance work, with a particular emphasis on • Complaints handling: Describes how we should deal with nomination committees, shareholders’ meetings and dialogues any complaints from our customers. with boards of directors. Another focus area is to contribute to good corporate governance practices. • Processing personal data: This describes how we should Alecta’s purchasing is conducted using established prowork with the General Data Protection Regulation’s requirecedures that always involve a central purchasing function. ments and protect both customers and employees personal Minor purchases of a non-recurring nature are exempt as is the integrity from violations. procurement of operations outsourced to contractors in asset management and IT. An assessment of the supplier’s sustainExamples of other governing documents for ability and environmental work form a part of the tendering sustainability: process when purchasing goods and services. A description of the development of sustainability work is Corporate governance and responsible included in the quarterly reports submitted to senior manageinvestments ment and the Board of Directors. The ownership policy describes Alecta’s active shareholder involvement and influence in Swedish listed companies. It clarGoverning documents for sustainability at ifies Alecta’s position on sustainability issues and its starting Alecta point is that the companies in which Alecta invests must comAlecta has an overall sustainability policy and an ownership ply with the international conventions signed by the Swedish policy that are adopted by the Board and that are available on State. the website. Alecta’s Board of Directors adopts the overall and strategic governance documents, and more detailed guidelines Investments are primarily decided by the CEO to provide clearer guidance The investment guidelines describe the focus and parameters to the employees in their day-to-day work. A number of the for the risk-taking of asset management. governance documents are described here. Risk management Sustainability policy The general governing document which describes Alecta’s risk Alecta’s sustainability policy is designed to give internal and management with a focus on good risk control and appropriate external stakeholders a general idea of how sustainability conrisk management. cerns are integrated into the company’s activities. In this policy, we express our support for the UN’s Global Compact initiInformation security ative and its ten principles on the environment, human rights, Describes what we need to consider when handling and labour standards and anti-corruption. The sustainability policy disseminating verbal and written information. is an umbrella for other more tangible governance documents, such as environmental and sustainability work in Alecta’s real estate operations. ALECTA’S ANNUAL AND SUSTAINABILIT Y REPORT 2019 27 SUSTAINABILITY SUPPLEMENT Money laundering and terrorist financing Working environment Describes how Alecta needs to act to protect itself from Describes Alecta’s general view on working environment and being exploited for money laundering and terrorism. the division of responsibilities on working environment issues. Purchasing and procurement Bribery and other improper influencing Describes the procedures and division of responsibility for purA governance document that provides guidance on how chases and procurement, where the emphasis is on efficiency employees should act in relation to gifts and other benefits that and quality. Decisions on purchases must take into account the could mean bribes or improper influencing. Based on the Code suppliers’ sustainability work. of Business Conduct issued by the Swedish Anti-Corruption Institute. Diversity The diversity policy describes Alecta’s responsibility to give all Environmental and sustainability work in Alecta’s employees the same opportunities for development and influreal estate operations ence, combined with zero tolerance for abusive treatment and Describes the general guidelines and priorities for environmendiscrimination. tal and sustainability work in the real estate business. Rebecca Rehn, Carina Silberg and Peter Lööw, Alecta. 28 ALECTA’S ANNUAL AND SUSTAINABILIT Y REPORT 2019 SUSTAINABILITY SUPPLEMENT Stakeholders and ongoing engagement CUSTOMERS – private and corporate customers Alecta’s most important stakeholders are our customers, who Current issues: are also our owners. With so many customers, and because of A secure pension, low costs, efficient asset management, ethical the mission’s character, we have a strong foundation in society. business behaviour, the occupational pension’s carbon footprint During recent years, Alecta has prioritised increased openness Dialogue channels: Customer service, surveys, e-mail contacts, company visits, and dialogue with stakeholders to ensure better exchanges of networks experience and to create opportunities for influence. Alecta’s activities: Clear targets for cost effectiveness and investment performance, increased transparency, membership of Global Compact INTERES TO S RG IE A NI IT RS PR I N PRINCIPALS – unions and employers E CI P OM R O SA TH ST A TI Current issues: AU ON CU LS S Responsible investment, corporate governance, fees, investment performance Dialogue channels: The Board of Directors, committees, seminars, procurements YEES SOCIET Alecta’s activities: COMPE P LO DIA Certification work in asset management, increased transparency Y EM and sustainability targets and indicators TIT ME OR S PA R T N E R S NS EMPLOYEES CO NSU SA TIO MER OR GANI Current issues: Skills development and career progression, equality, working environment, environmental impact, ethical business behaviour and responsible investment Dialogue channels: Views on sustainability from customers and Employee surveys, whistleblower function, the intranet, internal seminars, meetings with the CEO and various meeting forums, employees in 2019 such as breakfast and lounge meetings In the autumn, Alecta conducted a broader stakeholder survey Alecta’s activities: that encompassed client companies, private-sector employees Skills development plans, diversity plan, targets and indicators for sustainability, training programmes about ethics and anti-corruption and Alecta employees. Previous surveys provided input for materiality analyses, the design of the report and for formulating sustainability targets and indicators. This year’s survey clarPARTNERS AND SUPPLIERS ifies the sustainability expectations of stakeholders on Alecta as Mainly the selection centres for the collective bargaining areas, a company and their views on sustainability in investments. service providers in IT, real estate and asset management, A majority of both corporate customers and private-sector PRI Pensionsgaranti employees have high expectations that their pension provider Current issues: Procurements, responsible investments, environment and acts sustainably, though awareness of Alecta’s sustainability sustainability work is generally low. Both groups believe the most important Dialogue channels: sustainability issues for Alecta’s direct operations are good Negotiations and agreements, forums for cooperation Alecta’s activities: business ethics, good labour standards and health and safety. Review of sustainability issues in agreements and procurement Gender equality and the environment are also considered processes, certification of sustainability in asset management important. In respect of the management of pension capital, labour standards and combating child labour are deemed most important, followed by corruption and climate. Both groups SOCIETY AND BROADER STAKEHOLDER GROUPS have ranked climate-adapded investments as the sustainability Current issues: issue in investments that has the greatest positive impact on Knowledge about occupational pensions, stable management of pensions, the climate issue, sustainable financial market, the role returns. of owner Awareness of Alecta’s sustainability work is generally high Dialogue channels: among employees and an overwhelming majority believe Alecta Lectures at universities, industry dialogue, meetings with politicians, seminars, media debate acts sustainably today. Potential improvements mentioned Alecta’s activities: include greater clarity concerning the impact of the sustainability Take part in the debate on pensions, collaboration through the work, clearer sustainability procedures for certain asset classes “Gilla Din Ekonomi” (“Like Your Personal Finances”) network and involvement in EU’s work on a sustainable finance market and that environmental work is more visible at the office. ALECTA’S ANNUAL AND SUSTAINABILIT Y REPORT 2019 29 SUSTAINABILITY SUPPLEMENT Materiality analysis tance of a clearer employer promise and more forward-thinking Alecta’s stakeholder and materiality analysis has constituted approach to regulatory compliance and an ethical internal the basis for the company’s overall sustainability targets and culture. The analysis was also influenced by external monitorindicators and influenced the content of the report. In 2019, ing, including reviews, and exchanges of experiences within the steering group for sustainability reviewed the materiality the industry. Environment and purchasing are still identified analysis and chose to update and develop certain areas. For as areas outside the materiality analysis but with expectations example, we perceive a greater focus and expectations on of high transparency, which we took into account in the work responsible and sustainable investments, as well as the imporwith our targets. MATERIAL TOPIC RISK BOUNDARY* ACTIVITIES KPIs Page reference Economic • Collective agreement widely Impact within and By providing a good, stable •G  enerated and 6, 36 security and viewed as having a lower value outside the occupational pension, Alecta adds distributed value value for many • Alecta’s legitimacy is challenged organisation, as the value to the national social security (GRI 201-1) • Regulations that disfavour the value that is created system and to the economy. • Customer customers benefits Alecta’s We have therefore sharpened the satisfaction • Increased costs for society customers and focus on our long-term operational • Return employees as well goals: secure and satisfied as society at large. customers, low costs and high efficiency, as well as good returns and a strong financial position. We prefer uncomplicated solutions and utilise economies of scale to provide the best possible customer value. We are also working to spread knowledge among and influence our stakeholders to help more people understand how the choices they make will affect their pensions. Responsible • Sustainability losses if our Impact outside the Alecta views sustainability as an • P ercentage of 37, 38 investments holdings contribute to negative organisation important perspective to identify companies with consequences for the through the long-term risks and opportunities which Alecta has environment and people companies and in the management of customers’ interacted • Financial losses if our holdings properties that pension capital. Our communica(GRI FS10) decline in value due to poor Alecta invests in. tion about responsible investments • P ercentage of sustainability is to be transparent and clear. We screened assets • Damage to Alecta’s brand/ have clear return targets and an (GRI FS11) reputation in critical reviews or overall and long-term climate • Investments with a excessively low level of ambition target for the entire investment measurable portfolio. Alecta invests in environmental or well-managed companies and social impact bases investment decisions on internal research, taking into account ESG factors. Dialogue is an important tool to influence companies and we work to promote greater diversity in boards of directors. The properties we own have a direct impact on the environment that Alecta is working actively to minimise. We will increase investments in assets that contribute to financial returns and environmental or social impact. We collaborate to exert greater influence and exchange in the industry. * The indicated boundaries are based on the GRI framework, where the material impact takes place within or outside the organisation. 30 ALECTA’S ANNUAL AND SUSTAINABILIT Y REPORT 2019 SUSTAINABILITY SUPPLEMENT MATERIAL TOPIC RISK BOUNDARY* ACTIVITIES KPIs Page reference Inclusive and • Alecta less attractive as an Impact internally in Alecta is to be an inclusive •H  ours of training 41 stimulating employer the organisation employer where employees are (GRI 404-1) employer • Higher employee turnover through better offered an opportunity to develop. • E valuation and at Alecta utilisation of skills, We promote a good working monitoring • Increased health problems increased knowledge environment and good labour (GRI 404-3) among Alecta’s staff and employee standards, and we wish to create • Reduced competitiveness satisfaction as well conditions that will better leverage for Alecta as outside the the different perspectives and  organisation, experiences of our employees, primarily in the where specialists and various roles form of increased work together to develop Alecta’s customer value. business in the future. Strong • Poorer customer protection Impact internally, A pension company operates in a • F ines or sanctions 46 regulatory • General loss of trust in the as this is the industry dependent on trust and (GRI 419-1) compliance welfare system and the financial foundation for Alecta wants to promote an •T  raining in ethics system our activities, but internal culture of responsibility and regulatory • Higher costs and risk of poorer customer and is working with preventive compliance sanctions protection affects action. We operate in a carefully • Damage to Alecta’s brand customers. regulated environment and and trust  regulations are updated continuously to promote stability and strong customer protection. We attach the greatest importance to ensuring compliance with laws, regulations, internal governance documents and good business ethics so that our customers feel secure. High level of • Violations of personal integrity Impact within the Alecta processes large amounts of •C  omplaints about 46 customer • Financial loss for Alecta organisation in the sensitive personal information and breaches of privacy • Damage to Alecta’s brand/ processing of other customer data. We do our customer privacy reputation customer data and utmost to protect our customers’ (GRI 418-1) outside the information in all situations. organisation through the impact on customer privacy. AREAS WITH HIGH EXPECTATIONS OF TRANSPARENCY RISK BOUNDARY* ACTIVITIES KPIs Page reference Purchasing • Sustainability losses if breaches Impact within the Alecta includes environmental • Environmental 39, 40 and contribute to negative organisation and and sustainability questions in all impact from environment consequences for the outside with the procurements. In 2020, we will operations environment and people possibility of gradually implement a Supplier • Lack of credibility engaging suppliers. Code of Conduct. We have begun • Damage to Alecta’s brand/ to measure a number of reputation environmental performance indicators and review measures to reduce the direct environmental impact of operations. * The indicated boundaries are based on the GRI framework, where the material impact takes place within or outside the organisation. ALECTA’S ANNUAL AND SUSTAINABILIT Y REPORT 2019 31 SUSTAINABILITY SUPPLEMENT Risk analysis and preventive anti-corruption Fossil-free Sweden efforts The government initiative Fossil-free Sweden has brought Alecta’s preventive anti-corruption efforts focus on bribes and together Swedish players that want to help Sweden become unauthorised influence and are conducted in line with the Code one of the first fossil-free welfare countries. As part of the of Business Conduct issued by the Swedish Anti-Corruption initiative, Alecta has accepted ‘The Solar challenge’, for the Institute; “Code on gifts, rewards and other benefits in the production of solar energy, and ‘The company car challenge’ business community” (“the Code”), and recommendations for eco-friendly cars. from Insurance Sweden, the employers’ organisation for the Swedish insurance industry, from 2019. Global Compact The insurance industry is characterised by integrity-sensitive The purpose is that the business sector will support the UN’s activities, whereby integrity shortcomings could have major central international conventions. As a member of the Global adverse effects on both the insured and continued confidence Compact, Alecta supports the initiative’s ten principles about in conducting the business. For this reason, particular restraint the environment, human rights, labour standards and antiis required in connection with benefits and other favours that corruption. could influence behaviours or attitudes when performing duties. Sustainable value creation Alecta conducts a yearly analysis of the risk of improper Cooperation between the largest Swedish institutional invesinfluencing in respect of various risk categories, such as Alecta’s tors in order to highlight the importance of Swedish listed products, customers, distribution channels and geographic companies working in a structured manner with sustainability areas. Representatives from HR & Purchasing, Product, Legal issues. Affairs, Client, Communication & Sustainability, IT, Asset Management and Risk took part in the update in 2019. The work ICC is led by Compliance. The overall assessment is that the risk ICC is an international business organisation that promotes of improper influencing within Alecta is medium, primarily international business operations, trade opportunities and due to our size as an investor and in connection with tendersound economic development, and to develop self-regulation in ing. The risk analysis forms the basis for Alecta’s policy, which relevant areas, such as corporate responsibility for the environprovides tangible guidance in what is appropriate behaviour ment and sustainability. Alecta is a member of Swedish ICC. and what constitutes improper influence. The policy comprises Alecta’s employees, Board members, contractors and others Association of Institutional Shareholders who represent Alecta. The association’s aim is to promote self-regulation in the In 2019, Compliance invited Alecta’s employees to take part Swedish stock market, for example by continuing to develop in information meetings about bribery and corruption on two the Swedish Corporate Governance Code. Alecta’s Head of occasions, one of which had the Secretary-General of the Corporate Governance is a member of the association’s Board Swedish Anti-Corruption Institute as guest. Alecta also offers of Directors. employees online training programmes on bribery and other improper influencing, ethics and business entertainment and Nasdaq Sustainable Bond Network on money laundering. The training will become compulsory for The initiative aims to promote transparency in green and suscertain departments and employees in 2020. tainable bonds and enable more standardised impact reporting, to lower the threshold for issuers and investors. Alecta is part Partnerships and memberships of the Advisory Board together with other stakeholders. Alecta participates in the following initiatives or organisations with a connection to sustainability: Net-Zero Asset Owner Alliance (AOA) The alliance is an investor collaboration led by the United CDP (previously Carbon Disclosure Project) Nations Environment Programme Finance Initiative (UNEP By supporting the work of CDP, investors aim to drive the comFI) and PRI. As part of the initiative, participants have declared panies’ transparency and environmental reports, and to influthe long-term goal of investment portfolios with zero net ence companies to work actively to reduce their environmental impact by 2050. Alecta is one of 12 co-founders of the initiative impact. and is active in a number of working groups. 32 ALECTA’S ANNUAL AND SUSTAINABILIT Y REPORT 2019 SUSTAINABILITY SUPPLEMENT Alecta endorses the Global Compact’s ten principles on human rights, labour, environment and anti-corruption, which are based on international conventions. They form the foundation for responsible business conduct.  Magnus Billing, CEO of Alecta Swesif Swesif is a members’ association for organisations in Sweden that want to spread and increase knowledge about sustainable investments. Alecta is an active member of the Board of Directors and of the Seminar Committee through its Head of Responsible Investments. Occupational Pension Stakeholder Group (OPSG) The European Insurance and Occupational Pensions Authority Other initiatives for investors (EIOPA) is an EU financial regulatory institution. It has estabAlecta has signed a number of initiatives with various purlished a stakeholder group for regular consultation and Alecta’s poses. Alecta pursues direct engagement activities under the Head of Compliance has been a member of the group since UN PRI’s Climate Action 100+ initiative, which has produced autumn 2018. several concrete results and climate commitments from companies. The Access to Medicine Index surveys how the largest PRI pharmaceutical companies work to increase access to medicine The UN Principles for Responsible Investment is a global iniin developing countries. Alecta is also a partner and provides tiative for institutional investors. By signing up to PRI, Alecta funds to the Sustainalytics Food Supply Chain Engagement has undertaken to integrate the initiative’s six principles for initiative. Alecta supports TCFD (Task Force on Climate-relatresponsible investment in its activities. ed Financial Disclosures) and The Montreal Pledge, through which investors pledge to measure and report on the climate Swedish Investors for Sustainable Development impact of their equity investments. (SISD) SISD has gathered together the largest Swedish owners on the Research partnerships stock exchange in a network to focus on Agenda 2030 and the Alecta is involved in and contributes to various academic 17 Sustainable Development Goals. The initiative facilitates research projects. One such project started in 2019 at Uppsala shared learning and exchange. Alecta is head of a working University with the aim of studying how social welfare policies group focusing on Goal 8 – Decent Work and Economic influence a household’s financial resources in an internationalGrowth. ised market economy. Alecta also supports the research activities of the Stockholm School of Economics. Stockholm Sustainable Finance Centre (SSFC) The initiative is a collaboration between Stockholm Environment Gilla Din Ekonomi (“Like Your Personal Finances”) Institute (SEI) and the Stockholm School of Economics. The purGilla Din Ekonomi is a personal finance network among pubpose is to accelerate the development of a sustainable financial lic authorities, organisations and businesses. The goal is to market through a focus on research, innovation and new technolincrease people’s understanding of personal finance through ogy. Alecta’s CEO is Chairman of SSFC’s Advisory Board. various educational initiatives. Alecta’s Pension Economist contributes actively to these initiatives. Insurance Sweden Alecta participates in reference groups set up by Insurance minPension (“My Pension”) Sweden, the employers’ organisation for the Swedish insurThe minPension portal is a cooperation among companies in ance industry, including one focusing on Sustainability. Alecta the pension sector and is 50 per cent operated and financed by submits opinions on proposals for consultation and engages in the Swedish state and 50 per cent by the pension companies. dialogue with the Swedish Financial Supervisory Authority, the As several pension funds provide information to the same porMinistry of Finance and other government agencies. tal, users can log in and view their entire pension. The aim is to provide clear and simple information on pensions from an Sweden Green Building Council independent platform. The Sweden Green Building Council members’ organisation promotes exchanges of experiences between different operaSNS tors in the field of civil engineering. The organisation provides SNS, the Centre for Business and Policy Studies, is a forum tools and training as well as support for developing sustainabilfor dialogue about key social issues based on knowledge and ity activities. research. The members include representatives from business, politics, public administration and research. ALECTA’S ANNUAL AND SUSTAINABILIT Y REPORT 2019 33 SUSTAINABILITY SUPPLEMENT Reporting of targets and indicators This section provides more detailed information of the outcome of objectives and indicators, and comparisons over time. The information is structured according to Alecta’s overall sustainability targets and indicators. Sustainable pension system: Working for a sustainable pension system What does it mean: When trust is shared it grows. Our most important sustainability responsibility is to contribute to a sustainable pension system. This is achieved by offering good pensions, being a stable and reliable pension company and a responsible investor. Trust in collectively agreed occupational pensions is therefore an important dimension in a sustainable pension system. Alecta is to work to strengthen trust by disseminating knowledge and exerting an influence. Alecta’s activities during the year: Outcome 2019: • Published information and reports concerning the economic position of pensioners and the attitudes of young Percentage of salaried employpeople to pensions and savings in order to provide facts, increase awareness and shatter pension myths. ees with high or fairly high confidence in the occupational • Held four discussion brunches on themes linked to occupational pensions, the pension system, the labour market, pension system: and investments, with the aim of involving different stakeholders in dialogue about the future development of the pension system. 63 % • Brought together representatives from client companies, labour market parties, the business community and Percentage of salaried employinvestors, academia and politics at the annual “Alecta’s Ateljé” conference to discuss the future national social ees with high or fairly high security system. confidence in the Swedish collective agreement system: • The Pension Economist’s work to increase knowledge surrounding pensions by lecturing at Swedish academic institutions and participation in the pension debate through blog articles and media, addressing topics such as 70 % occupational pensions and private saving. • Being an active voice in consultations on occupational pension legislation and other legislation concerning sustainability in investments, both in Sweden and at EU level, focusing on achieving the greatest possible customer value. Investing in line with the climate goal of 1.5 degrees and the Responsible investments: ambition of net zero climate impact by 2050 What does it mean: We are facing a comprehensive transition to meet the climate targets set and all players in society will be affected. A long-term perspective is needed that can help to reduce risk and provide new perspectives for investment opportunities with high returns for Alecta’s customers. Alecta’s ambition is an investment portfolio that develops in line with climate goals. Alecta’s activities during the year: Outcome 2019: • Alecta was one of 12 co-founders of the Net-Zero Asset Owner Alliance, an initiative supported by Number of corporate dialogues on the UN for investors that will work together to adapt investment portfolios to climate change. climate: • A climate report was drawn up for all asset classes for the second year, detailing how various 18 scenarios could impact the assets. Included in the Risk department’s report to the Swedish Financial Percentage of companies in Supervisory Authority, and parts will be included in Alecta’s TCFD report in early 2020. the equity portfolio with • Began work in the equity team in investment management to prepare climate analyses by sector, and science-based climate targets: included carbon emissions from the value chain in the analytical framework. 11 % • Published a position paper on coal and lowered the threshold for investments in the mining of coal. Percentage of companies in the equity portfolio that report • In dialogue with companies and in collaboration with other investors, pushed for higher climate climate footprint (Scope 1 and 2): ambitions. Examples included discussions with Volvo within the Climate Action 100+ initiative, voting on climate issues at BHP’s General Meeting of Shareholders, discussed greater transparency in the 76 % marketplace with Nasdaq Nordic regarding carbon emissions. Carbon footprint from equity portfolio (Scope 1 and 2), tCO2e/SEK • Continued roll-out of the solar panel strategy and conducted an inventory of conditions for million in income: geoenergy solutions in real estate management. 3.0 34 ALECTA’S ANNUAL AND SUSTAINABILIT Y REPORT 2019 SUSTAINABILITY SUPPLEMENT Environment and ethics: Optimise use of resources to reduce environmental impact What does it mean: Sustainability is strongly associated with the environment, also among Alecta’s customers. By pursuing our own environmental agenda that is aligned with the resource focus that characterises Alecta’s other work, we increase awareness within the company and reflect the demands we place on our holdings. More efficient use of resources also entails an emphasis on modern working methods using digital tools and opportunities. Alecta’s activities during the year: Outcome 2019: • Included environmental performance indicators in operational plans. Reduction in energy consumption for the office through the use of smart equipment: • In February, the percentage of digital customer letters exceeded physical letters for the first time and after 2019, our major “annual statement” mailing will primarily be sent 9.5 % digitally. Carbon footprint, including customer letters, travel, office • Alecta’s office has been under refurbishment for a number of years and in conjunction with this we tested various approaches to recycling and sorting in the office landscape. Fans, pumps and lighting in the office and garage were replaced with more energyCustomer letters 56 % Travel 29 % Energy use, offices15 % efficient alternatives. • Initiatives to increase awareness internally include food-waste campaigns together More digital mailing of customer letters with our restaurant partner, distributing soil nutrients from our compost to employees resulted in paper savings of: during the spring, and internal lectures on climate impact in conjunction with the large climate strike on 27 September. 2.5 tonnes If a large non-recurring mailing in 2018 is included, the saving is a total of 14.5 tonnes of paper. Employees and diversity: Strengthen diversity throughout the organisation What does it mean: We must continue to challenge ourselves if we are to achieve our ambitious goals and further develop Alecta’s work and offering to customers. By strengthening and increasing diversity, we gain a more innovative and effective business and enhance expertise at all levels of the organisation. Alecta is to be an attractive employer that harnesses and fosters diversity. Alecta’s activities during the year: Outcome 2019: • The diversity perspective in management training and recruitment has contributed to Percentage of women in Alecta’s senior greater diversity in terms of gender and age in some departments in recent years. management: • Greater awareness of “collective intelligence” through lectures and internal workshops 44 % focusing on enhanced dynamics and the organisation’s ability to solve complex challenges Percentage of female managers: by integrating different knowledge and perspectives. 57 % • Staff Day on modern working methods with exercises in cross-functional collaboration. Skills development, hours per year: • Cooperation with Jobbsprånget resulted in full-time employment for one person in 2019. Women 53 Men 26 Age distribution: 20–39 years: 19 % 40–49 years: 25 % 50– years: 56 % ALECTA’S ANNUAL AND SUSTAINABILIT Y REPORT 2019 35 SUSTAINABILITY SUPPLEMENT Sustainability indicators 2019–2023 who know Alecta well are also much more aware of its work. As support and to provide confirmation of the work carried Together with trust in collectively agreed occupational pension out, Alecta is monitoring a large number of indicators within schemes, the indicator contributes to work towards achieving the four chosen sustainability areas: the goal of secure and satisfied customers. • Sustainable pension system • Responsible investments Economic value generated and distributed 1) (GRI 201-1) • Environment and ethics SOCIO-ECONOMIC VALUE, • Employees and diversity Group (SEK million) 2019 2018 2017 Economic value, generated Certain indicators are used as key performance indicators for Return on capital, before the overall goals, while other indicators have quantitative goals. operating expenses 2) 3) 125,314 –17,809 53,252 Others have an explicit direction or serve as transparency 125,314 –17,809 53,252 metrics enabling us to provide information about our work. Economic value, distributed Claims incurred 4) –21,810 –20,884 –20,353 Sustainable pension system Waiver of premium, corporate customers –2,654 –2,531 –2,039 Refunds in the form of adjustments to earned Confidence in occupational pension schemes and pension entitlement and premium reductions 5) –11,695 –10,511 –5,618 collective agreements Salaries and remuneration –340 –325 –352 2019 2018 2023 Suppliers and partners –583 –540 –518 Confidence in occupational pension Yield tax and income tax in Sweden and system among salaried employees 63 % 68 % > 70 % abroad as well as social security fees for Confidence in the Swedish collective employees –1,386 –1,039 –2,594 agreement system among salaried –38,468 –35,829 –31,474 employees 70 % 67 % n/a 1) 1) GRI requests a report of “retained value” but at Alecta the surplus goes to the policy 1) No target set for indicator holders. 2) Unrealised gains/losses are included in an amount of SEK 97,522 million (2018: The 2018 survey included private-sector employees over the –46,291, 2017: 25,719). The year’s return is described in the Administration Report age of 18, while the 2019 survey included all salaried employees on page 57. 3) In the income statement, asset management and property management expenses between the ages of 20 and 65. In the 2019 survey, 58 per cent totalling SEK 283 million (2018: 234, 2017: 250) have been offset against capital of salaried employees stated that they were very or fairly posreturns. See also Note 8 Operating expenses. 4)  Claims incurred also include refunds in the form of pension supplements and itive to the default option in collectively agreed occupational supplementary amounts, which are taken from the surplus fund; see Note 33 Equity. pensions. Individual results are difficult to interpret, but in 5) Refunds are taken from the surplus fund, see Note 33 Equity. the long term the results offer an indication of how well Alecta and other parties in collectively agreed occupational penA high level of trust and legitimacy are fundamental to Alecta’s sions are strengthening trust through good products, positive mission. Economic value generated reflects Alecta’s capacity, results, comprehensible and easily accessible information and and the distribution is characterised by the mutual concept enhanced awareness in the wider public debate. of maximising the value given back to customers through cost-efficient operations. Customers’ opinions on Alecta’s sustainability work Alecta creates economic value for its customers by giving Percentage that believe Alecta works them a good and secure pension. It does so by generating a in a sustainable way, % 2019 2018 2023 strong return over time and by keeping the costs down. In Private-sector employees (good Alecta’s area of business, the value that is generated and delivunderstanding) 12 (37) 13 (38) 20 ered needs to be viewed from a long-term perspective. The Client companies (good understanding) 17 (37) n/a 1) 30 value that is created during the year will be distributed for 1) B  etween 2018 and 2019, the survey method was changed for client companies, which means the many years to come and the value that has been distributed 2018 figure is not comparable. during the present year has been accumulated over prior years. Alecta examines the expectations of private-sector employees For this reason, the value that is generated and distributed in and corporate customers in relation to sustainability at penan individual year cannot be put in relation to each other. sion companies, which includes questions concerning Alecta’s sustainability work. Most people answer the question with a Responsible investments “don’t know”, which reflects the generally low level of awareAll indicators related to active ownership and responsible ness about companies’ sustainability work among customers, investments reported here are also described in more detail in particularly in industries without daily contact. Customers Alecta’s Ownership Report, at alecta.se. 36 ALECTA’S ANNUAL AND SUSTAINABILIT Y REPORT 2019 SUSTAINABILITY SUPPLEMENT Screenings of all shareholdings and corporate loans are conNomination committees in Swedish listed companies ducted four times per year based on the international conven2018/2019 2017/2018 tions signed by Sweden. These include environment, labour Number of nomination committees 22 17 standards, anti-corruption and human rights. In the intervenIts substantial holdings in Swedish limited liability companies ing period, Alecta receives regular reports in the event of an allows Alecta to be active in nomination committees that are incident or suspected breach of conventions linked to our holdtasked with nominating members to the Board of Directors ings. Changes to the proportion of assets screened in terms prior to the general meeting of shareholders. Alecta had eight of total investments are dependent on the percentage of share representatives from investment management, of whom one and corporate loans in the portfolio. woman, who took part in nomination committee work during the 2018/2019 AGM season. Moreover, one member of Alecta’s ESG dialogues (GRI FS10) Board took part as a representative in nomination processes. 2019 2018 Number of corporate dialogues 41 18 Gender equality on boards – Of which E/S/G 20/9/12 6/3/9 2019 2018 TARGET – Of which proactive/reactive 28/13 10/8 Percentage of women on the At least 40 per cent Board where Alecta is a member of each gender of nomination committee 44 % 41 % represented With its substantial holdings in certain companies, Alecta is an active owner through continuous dialogue with the comAlecta’s responsibility as owner means we strive to achieve pany. For transparency, we report on the dialogues held that the best possible Board compositions when we participate in concerned sustainability, and the main focus area for the questhe nomination processes. In order to increase the experience tions. Questions about the environment often have a social and skills base, and to encourage a dynamic Board, we strive dimension, but we used the primary issue discussed when clasto broaden the representation from the perspectives of gender sifying the dialogues. ESG stands for environmental, social and equality and diversity. On average, at least 40 per cent of each governance. The dialogues encompass both shareholdings and gender is represented on boards where Alecta is a member of credit holdings. the nomination committee, though some individual boards are We classify a dialogue as reactive if it was initiated after an yet to achieve the goal. incident reported through the norm-based screening. During the year, dialogues took place concerning labour standards Voting at general meetings in the supply chain and climate reporting. Figures from 2019 2018/2019 2017/2018 TARGET show that dialogues about sustainability are increasing and Percentage of holdings where Alecta that Alecta is more proactive in highlighting sustainability voted at the general shareholders’ issues. meeting 99 % 99 % 100 % Climate reporting by portfolio companies Alecta has voted at AGMs held by all holdings during the 2019 2018/2019 season, with the exception of one holding in the US. Shareholdings Voting is an important tool for active ownership and our target – Percentage of companies reporting climate data (Scope 1+2) 76 % is to always vote at all holdings. Every year, information is pub– Percentage of companies reporting climate data (Scope 1+2+3) n/a1) lished on the website detailing how Alecta voted at sharehold– Number and percentage of companies with science-based 13 compaers’ meetings, with a cut-off point at 30 June. The latest voting targets nies/11 % report concerns the 2018/2019 AGM season, and the Ownership Credit holdings Report describes votes of particular relevance. – Percentage of companies reporting climate data (Scope 1+2) 87 % – Percentage of companies reporting climate data (Scope 1+2+3) n/a1) Screening of holdings (GRI FS11) – Number and percentage of companies with science-based 4 companies 2019 2018 TARGET targets /9 % Percentage of shareholdings and 1) Alecta is aiming to specify the percentage of companies reporting Scope 3 in its corporate loans reviewed in normsnext annual report. based screening 100 % 100 % 100 % Percentage of assets of total investments Alecta previously reported the percentage of holdings that reviewed in norms-based screening 60 % 70 % n/a 1) report climate data to CDP, but as we now look closer at the 1) No target set. The indicator only specifies the proportion of shares and corporate companies’ climate efforts and have adopted climate targets loans in the investment portfolio at the end of the year, and can vary over time. ALECTA’S ANNUAL AND SUSTAINABILIT Y REPORT 2019 37 SUSTAINABILITY SUPPLEMENT for the portfolio, we have decided to report this information and reported, including social and/or environmental factors. in more detail. The figures show that there is still scope for During the year, new investments were made in green bonds improvement. The goal is to increase the percentage of compain an amount of SEK 10 billion. Other sustainable investments nies that report their climate efforts. Through its own initiaamounted to SEK 4.3 billion in 2019. Some of these investments tives and collaboration with other investors, Alecta will strive expired or were sold. The aim is to increase investments in for an increase in climate data reporting. such assets. Carbon footprint, shares Real estate portfolio, directly owned Sweden 2019 2018 2017 2016 2019 2018 2017 Carbon footprint shareholdEnvironmentally labelled properties, ings, tCO₂e/SEK million in number 19 12 10 income 3.0 3.0 3.4 4.7 Environmentally labelled properties, sq.m 323,614 245,720 212,641 Absolute footprint, tCO₂e 538,720 510,792 561,462 759,285 – percentage of lettable floor area, % 40 32 27 Energy use, kWh/sq.m 108 114 109 For a number of years, Alecta has measured and reported cli– of which property electricity 39 43 44 mate impact from the equities portfolio in accordance with – of which district heating 56 57 54 recommendations from Insurance Sweden. This measurement – of which district cooling 13 14 11 complies with industry standards and applies to the compaTotal energy consumption, MWh 47,009 49,938 47,416 nies’ Scope 1 and 2 emissions according to the Greenhouse Gas – of which property electricity 17,233 18,811 19,134 Protocol (GHG). The carbon footprint has previously fallen sig– of which district heating 24,302 24,856 23,601 nificantly but remained relatively stable at a comparatively low level for the past four years. In 2019, the carbon footprint rose – of which district cooling 5,474 6,272 4,681 slightly due to turnover in the portfolio, with a net increase in Carbon footprint from energy purchased, tCO₂ 1) 1,029 1,290 1,046 emissions due to new holdings. Changes also took place withWater use, m /sq.m 3 0.47 0.55 0.52 in individual holdings. One company increased its emissions sharply due to acquisitions, while another noted substantial 1) The calculation of climate impact does not include the two properties Vågen 12 and Krämaren 23. reductions, one holding has begun to report emission data that is much higher than previously estimated standard values. Work to environmentally classify properties has been stepped Alecta’s climate report also studies Scope 3, though data up during the year and is described in the “Responsible investhere is less reliable, and also includes other asset classes. We ments” and “A sustainable real estate owner” sections. are planning to report climate information in more detail for The reported property portfolio includes directly owned the portfolio in 2020. properties with a history of three years. District heating consumption is reported normal-year corrected. Other energy use Investments with a measurable environmental in Alecta’s property portfolio is reported as actual consumpor social impact tion. Data for energy was adjusted in last year’s report. All 2019 2018 directly owned properties in Sweden have an environmental Green bonds, SEK billion 40 31 plan and continuous improvement programmes. Since several Other investments with a measurable environmental or years, Alecta has a goal to enhance the efficiency of energy use social impact, SEK billion 11 6 by at least 3 per cent per year. Overall improvements could be seen for all energy sources Alecta only invests in green bonds that are issued in accordfor the year. This is in part due to temperature differences ance with a clear framework and reviewed by a third party. between the years, such as a decrease in consumption of coolOver the past five years, Alecta has steadily increased its ing compared with the hot summer of 2018. Other improveinvestments in green bonds, primarily from municipalities and ments were the result of optimised operations, for example the supranational organisations such as the World Bank, but also connection of control systems and similar. in sovereign green bonds and corporate bonds. The property management organisation held discussions Impact investments in Alecta’s portfolio include a loan fund with district heating suppliers concerning the climate impact for small and medium enterprises in developing countries, of district heating. microfinance institutions and a social government bond. In This is the first year Alecta has reported data for water. addition to returns, a number of other factors are followed up 38 ALECTA’S ANNUAL AND SUSTAINABILIT Y REPORT 2019 SUSTAINABILITY SUPPLEMENT 3) During 2019 (2018), 438 (521) flights were taken, of which 269 (333) were ENERGY CONSUMPTION, international. There were 289 (288) train journeys, of which two (two) were ALECTA’S SWEDISH PROPERTY PORTFOLIO international. 4) Office paper based on volumes purchased during the period. For 2018, purchases kWh per m2 made between Sep 2017–Aug 2018 were reported. For 2019, purchases made 60 between Sep 2018–Nov 2019 were reported. 50 5) In addition, a large number of digital letters were sent and if these had been postal letters, they would have corresponded to another 11,554 kg. One reason for the 40 substantial difference in paper mailings between 2019 and 2018 was a large non-recurring mailing made in 2018 connected to the ITP procurement. 30 20 During the year, extensive refurbishment work was completed at 10 the head office. We have already identified an increase in ener0 gy efficiency as lighting, heat pumps and fans were replaced Property electricity District heating District cooling with more efficient equipment. When procuring furniture for 2017 2018 2019 the refurbishment work, we subjected the supplier to tangible Consumption in kWh per m2 (heated area) in Alecta’s Swedish property portfolio. For comparative purposes, only properties that were owned throughout the comparative period of 2017–2019 environmental requirements in terms of the use of chemicals have been included, known as the “standing portfolio”. The figures reported in last year’s annual and our ambition of renovating and re-using office furniture to report have therefore been slightly adjusted. Indirectly owned and residential properties are not included in the comparison. the extent possible. We measure the carbon footprint of our business travel to Environment and ethics enable us to make more informed decisions on the choice of travel. Most of the journeys are related to customer visits or the Direct environmental impact, operations operations of asset management. In customer operations, we As a service-sector company with a centrally located office, our are exploring various ways to meet customers more through work associated with direct environmental impact is strongly digital channels, using webinars for example. In order to comconnected to our office, our travel and our cooperation with pensate for emissions linked to travel, Alecta has financed various suppliers. Over the years, we have improved the efficlimate benefits in the form of 28 Solvatten units during the ciency of resource use at our office, which has resulted in sigyear, which corresponded to its emissions in 2018. The units nificant financial and environmental gains. Today, our most contribute to a better climate and improve hygiene and health significant environmental footprint comes from customer letin vulnerable areas in Kenya. Solvatten is a Swedish invention ters, energy that is used in our property, from business travel, with a water container that uses UV light from the sun to clean paper consumption and food waste. Reducing the office’s enviand heat water, instead of burning coal or wood. ronmental impact is an overall sustainability target moving We are also reviewing our paper consumption, and assessforward. ing how we can switch to greater use of digital tools and work methods. Alecta sends a considerable amount of paper-based 2019 2018 mail to our customers. In 2019, Alecta informed customers that Energy use, offices, MWh the largest mailing of annual statements will from next year Total 2,521 2,788 1) primarily be distributed via digital channels. In 2019, the num– of which electricity 1,155 1,387 ber of digital customer letters surpassed the number of paper – of which district heating 1,043 1,109 mailings for the first time. – of which district cooling 323 292 Many environmental improvements are made in collaboraCarbon footprint, kg CO₂ tion with or through our suppliers. In 2018, for example, the IT supplier of Alecta’s servers moved to a modern, newly built Energy, property 2) 85,546 90,915 data centre, where new technology significantly reduces energy Travel 3) 170,544 193,858 consumption. Through the use of free cooling, using outdoor – of which air travel 169,432 192,932 air to balance the temperature in the computer hall for optimal – of which trains 1,112 926 operational efficiency, up to 90 per cent of the need is met. Use of paper, kg Together with the contractor that has run our staff canteen Office operations, indicative based on volume of purchased paper 4) 4,048 7,500 since 2017, we conduct regular campaigns to reduce food waste and have expanded the range of vegetarian dishes. Customer letters, paper mailings 17,752 5) 32,299 1) In 2019, new systems support has increased the accuracy of readings. As a result, electricity and cooling figures for 2018 were marginally adjusted, and for district Customer complaints, including data processing heating were reduced by just over 10 per cent compared with the previously stated (GRI 418-1) level. 2) All property electricity is origin-labelled from renewable sources. District cooling is 2019 2018 produced from, for example, free cooling from water and waste heat. All carbon emissions are linked to district heating. District heating is produced in part from coal Customer complaints, total 550 360 and oil, and carbon emissions from these sources are climate compensated by the Customer complaints about processing data and supplier. We report emissions without deducting the portion that is climate customer privacy 4 2 compensated. The figure for 2018 has been adjusted. ALECTA’S ANNUAL AND SUSTAINABILIT Y REPORT 2019 39 SUSTAINABILITY SUPPLEMENT Alecta registers and analyses all cases when a customer states Suppliers’ data that we have failed in relation to the service requested by the 2019 2018 2017 customer or expresses dissatisfaction with the insurance disTotal number of suppliers 642 627 636 tribution, the terms of an insurance contract, with information – of whom in Sweden 574 565 568 or with staff interaction. During the year, complaints increased – of whom in other EU countries 50 41 49 slightly due to individual events, for example, the transition – of whom outside the EU 18 21 19 to digital mailing of the annual statements. Most of the comPercentage of suppliers with contracts plaints are handled and concluded directly in the contact with for sustainability/Code of Conduct n/a 1) – – customers. 1) Alecta has drawn up a Code of Conduct that as of 2020 will be appended to supplier During 2019, Alecta received four customer complaints agreements when entering into new agreements. concerning its processing of personal data, none of which were from regulators or other formal authorities. In one case, Alecta Alecta’s suppliers mainly comprise external parties who has submitted a report to the Data Inspection Board. All four operate the staff canteen, outsourced IT operations, parties cases were rectified, and one of the complaints resulted in a engaged in training contexts, purchases of licences and softsuggestion for improvements to reduce the risk of it happening ware, maintenance of equipment, office supplies and research again. services for asset management. Five suppliers accounted for 62 per cent of the total transaction volume. Swedish suppliers Fines or sanctions (GRI 419–1) accounted for 95 per cent of the transaction volume. During the year, Alecta developed a Supplier Code of Con2019 2018 2017 duct that will gradually be rolled-out as new agreements are Fines or sanctions following shortcomings in regulatory compliance, number and entered into as of 2020. amount 0 0 0 An important supplier in our internal environmental work is Alecta’s provider of janitor services, and for this we use a No fines or sanctions were imposed on Alecta in 2019. company that conducts active environmental work, chooses products that are a good environmental choice and also has Whistleblower function collective agreements for its employees. Alecta has had a whistleblower function since 2017. During the year, all matters reported to the function were investigated and Employees and diversity managed in accordance with the Board’s Whistleblower Policy. Employment information (GRI 102-8) Ethics and integrity – training initiatives Forms of employment, Group A number of digital training programmes were developed and made available to all employees on the intranet during the year. FORMS OF 2019 2018 2017 EMPLOYMENT The following training programmes are now available to comGroup Women Men Women Men Women Men plement governance documents in each area: ethics and whisNumber of employees tleblowing, bribery, business entertainment, complaints hanat 31 December 223 147 217 148 219 145 dling, conflicts of interest, money laundering and terrorism, of whom in private transactions and trading with financial instruments by Sweden 223 147 217 148 219 145 employees, information security and the requirements of the Permanent General Data Protection Regulation. A special initiative during employees 219 145 215 146 217 145 the year aimed to support management in increasing underof whom full-time 186 139 178 137 185 134 standing and awareness of Alecta’s governance documents of whom part-time 33 6 37 9 32 11 within the company. Temporary employees 4 2 2 2 2 0 On two occasions in 2019, all employees were given the Number of opportunity to take part in lectures about Alecta’s work to consultants (FTE) 11 24 10 22 10 26 combat bribery, and the Secretary-General of the Swedish Anti-Corruption Institute attended one of these lectures. Within the Group, which for reporting purposes also includes the subsidiary WTC, the number of employees remained relatively stable. Alecta no longer has offices abroad and all of its employees are therefore located in Sweden. Most are employed on a full-time basis. The majority of employees working parttime are women. 40 ALECTA’S ANNUAL AND SUSTAINABILIT Y REPORT 2019 SUSTAINABILITY SUPPLEMENT Employees, collective agreements, diversity development and external training programmes. We do not believe there are fewer opportunities for men than women to EMPLOYEE STATISTICS 2019 2018 2017 participate in skills development, though we are aware of sevGroup eral factors that may contribute to the significant gaps indicatNumber of employees at 31 December 370 365 364 ed by the data. One example is the readiness to register skills Average age of all employees 48 48 47 development time in the system and views on what constitutes Percentage of female employees 60 % 59 % 60 % skills development. We are continuing to work with systems Percentage of female managers 58 % 52 % 50 % support for facilitating the administration of training proPercentage of women in management 1) 44 % 33 % 33 % grammes and to increase follow-up reliability, in part through Percentage of women on the Board 1) 42 % 38 % 31 % central registration of external training programmes, formal enrolments to internal training programmes, etc. Alecta’s goal Parent Company is that all employees will have a skills development plan that Employee turnover 7.9 % 7.9 % 7.3 % includes skills development needs and planned training proPercentage covered by collective grammes. We identified large gaps in reporting, and believe we bargaining agreements 2) 100 % 100 % 100 % must increase awareness internally and clarify the responsibiliAge distribution employees 3) ty of each employee to register their plan, as well as the respon– 20–39 years, (W/M) 36/28 – – sibility of managers to follow this up. – 40–49 years, (W/M) 49/36 – – – 50– years, (W/M) 115/76 – – Evaluation and development (GRI 404–3) Percentage of female employees 59 % 58 % 58 % 2019 2018 2017 TARGET Percentage of female managers 57 % 53 % 53 % Employee performance See 1) A decision was taken not to include senior executives for the subsidiary WTC reviews, % comment 90 88 100 % in the Group summary. 2) Does not include employees in senior management. 3) Does not include temporary employees. All employees at Alecta take part in an annual performance review, and managers are offered support by the HR organiFrom the Parent Company’s viewpoint, there were relatively sation to plan and conduct these reviews. Deviations from the few major changes during the year. Employee turnover remains target are mainly attributable to new employees during the slightly below an industry average. Alecta measures employee year. All managers have certified that performance reviews turnover in accordance with the approach of Nyckeltalsinstitook place during the year, though there is a lack of supporting tutet, by choosing the lower of the number that started or the data in the form of structured documentation. number that terminated their employment in relation to the average number of employees during the year. Recruitments Sick leave during the year were mainly sourced externally. This was 2019 2018 2017 partly because new services or functions required new compeSick leave 1) 4.5 % 3.4 % 3.7 % tencies. Alecta conducts annual salary surveys to identify and – women 4.8 % correct unwarranted differences in salary. – men 4.0 % Alecta reports the gender and age distribution of employees 1) Reported broken down into women and men from 2019. but has also looked at other diversity factors in 2019. Just over 11 per cent of employees were born abroad or have two parents Sick leave among employees rose slightly in 2019. Alecta is a who were born abroad. relatively small organisation and reports short and long-term sick leave together. A few cases of long-term sick leave can, as a Hours of training (GRI 404–1) result, have a distinct impact on the result, which was the case 2019 2018 2017 TARGET during the year. There were several different causes of the longHours of training, average term sick leave, from rehabilitation after surgery to medical per employee 1) 42 22 26 diseases. Alecta works with frequent follow-ups and dialogues – average, women 53 27 in the event of repeated sick leave to be able to provide the – average, men 26 14 support that is needed. We know that it is important to quickly Employees with skills See return to work after a longer sick leave or rehabilitation and we development plan comment 76 % 88 % 100 % have therefore done our utmost to facilitate work escalation at 1) Reported broken down into women and men from 2018. No target set for indicator the pace that works for the employee. All skills development is registered by employees themselves in the personnel administration system, and applies to internal ALECTA’S ANNUAL AND SUSTAINABILIT Y REPORT 2019 41 SUSTAINABILITY SUPPLEMENT GRI table About the sustainability reporting occupational pension schemes in Sweden. Alecta’s asset manAlecta’s sustainability report for 2019 has been prepared agement activities comprise investments in shares, debt securiaccording to guidelines for the Global Reporting Initiative ties and real estate. Alecta’s directly owned real estate portfolio (GRI), GRI Standards and the alternative Core. The content of is concentrated to Sweden. No material changes in the organithe Sustainability Report is mainly found on pages 12–25 and sation’s size, structure, ownership or suppliers occurred during in the sustainability supplement on pages 25–43. The sustainthe reporting period. ability reporting covers 2019 and forms part of Alecta’s annual report. The annual and sustainability report are published Calculation methods and definitions annually in March. The preceding annual and sustainability GRI Disclosure 102-8: Consultants are recalculated to full-time report was published on 21 March 2019. equivalents (FTEs) as this offers a more accurate picture of The report has been reviewed by Alecta’s auditors, Ernst & operations. Figures from previous years have been adjusted to Young AB. reflect this. GRI Disclosure 404-1: Employees refer to permanent Scope and boundaries employees of the Parent Company with the exception of The Sustainability Report mainly encompasses the Parent employees on long-term leave, including employees on parental Company Alecta pensionsförsäkring, ömsesidigt, and Alecta’s leave, sick leave or unpaid leave. subsidiaries, apart from those specified below. The subsidiaries Standing portfolio: In order to compare environmental perare engaged in the direct or indirect ownership of real estate. formance for directly owned properties over time, we reported The real estate companies that are joint-owned by Alecta are properties that have been part of the portfolio throughout the defined as joint ventures and are handled as financial instrureporting period (three years). Project properties during the ments. The description of procedures and duties in the perperiod were excluded. sonnel section on pages 24–25 covers employees of the Parent Company while consolidated data including the subsidiary Contact WTC is presented on pages 40–41. The description of Alecta’s The contact person for Alecta’s sustainability report is direct environmental impact and suppliers on pages 39–40 Carina Silberg, Head of Sustainability. refers to the Parent Company. Other exceptions to the scope E-mail: carina.silberg@alecta.se are indicated in the report. Alecta manages collectively agreed GRI STANDARDS INDEX 2019, CORE REFERENCE COMMENT ORGANISATIONAL PROFILE 102-1 Name 56 102-2 Activities, brands, products and services 42, 56 102-3 Location of headquarters 56 102-4 Location of operations 42 102-5 Ownership and legal form 56 102-6 Markets served 8–10, 42 102-7 Scale of the organisation 40–41, 56–57 102-8 Information on employees and other workers 40–41 102-9 Supply chain 27, 40 102-10 Significant changes to the organisation and its supply chain 42 102-11 Precautionary principle or approach See comment Alecta is not engaged in manufacturing activities, but environmental aspects are taken into account in the investment activities. 102-12 External initiatives 32–33 102-13 Membership of associations 32–33 STRATEGY 102-14 Statement from senior decision-maker 5 42 ALECTA’S ANNUAL AND SUSTAINABILIT Y REPORT 2019 SUSTAINABILITY SUPPLEMENT GRI STANDARDS INDEX 2019, CORE REFERENCE COMMENT ETHICS AND INTEGRITY 102-16 Values, principles, standards and norms of behaviour 27–28 GOVERNANCE 102-18 Governance structure 26–27, 47–50 STAKEHOLDER ENGAGEMENT 102-40 List of stakeholder groups 29 102-41 Collective bargaining agreements 41 102-42 Identifying and selecting stakeholders 29 102-43 Approach to stakeholder engagement 29 102-44 Key topics and concerns raised 29 REPORTING PRACTICE 102-45 Entities included in the consolidated financial statements 95–96 Note 16 102-46 Defining report content and topic boundaries 30–31, 42 102-47 List of material topics 30–31 102-48 Restatements of information See comment and Energy data for the office was corrected, and pages 39 and 42 reporting method changed for consultants. 102-49 Changes in reporting See comment No material changes 102-50 Reporting period 42 102-51 Date of most recent report 42 102-52 Reporting cycle 42 102-53 Contact point for questions regarding the report 42 102-54 Claims of reporting in accordance with GRI Standards 42 102-55 GRI content index 42–43 102-56 External assurance 42, 44 MANAGEMENT APPROACH 103-1 Explanation of the material topic and its boundaries 30–31 103-2 Management approach and its components 26–28, 32 103-3 Evaluation of the management approach 26–28, 32, 49–50 ECONOMIC PERFORMANCE 201-1 Direct economic value generated and distributed 36 SOCIAL TOPICS – EMPLOYMENT 404-1 Average hours of training per employee by gender 41 See Scope and boundaries, and Calculation and employee category methods and definitions. 404-3 Percentage of employees receiving regular performance and 41 Not reported in full, see comment on career development reviews page 41. SOCIAL TOPICS – CUSTOMER PRIVACY AND PRODUCT RESPONSIBILITY Total number of substantiated complaints concerning breaches 418-1 of customer privacy and losses of customer data 39–40 Fines and sanctions concerning breaches of financial or 419-1 social laws or regulations 40 Percentage and number of companies in the institution’s portfolio with which FS10 the reporting organisation has interacted on environmental or social issues 37 Percentage of assets subject to positive and negative FS11 environmental or social screening 37 ALECTA’S ANNUAL AND SUSTAINABILIT Y REPORT 2019 43 SUSTAINABILITY SUPPLEMENT Auditor’s report on the review of the sustainability reporting and opinion on the mandatory sustainability report of Alecta pensionsförsäkring, ömsesidigt To the Council of Administration of Alecta Pensionsförsäkring, FAR’s recommendation RevR 12 Auditor’s opinion on the manömsesidigt, corp. ID no. 502014-6865 datory sustainability report. A review and an examination in accordance with RevR 12 have a different focus and significantIntroduction ly less scope than the focus and scope of an audit conducted We have been engaged by the Board of Directors of Alecta in accordance with the International Standards on Auditing Pensionsförsäkring, ömsesidigt to review the content of the (ISA), and generally accepted auditing practices. company’s sustainability reporting for 2019. The company The audit firm applies the International Standard on Qualihas defined the scope of the sustainability reporting on pages ty Control (ISQC 1) and therefore has a broad system for quali42–43 in this document, of which the mandatory sustainability ty control consisting of documented guidelines and procedures report is defined on page 1. for compliance with professional ethical requirements, standards for professional conduct, and applicable requirements in Responsibilities of the Board of Directors and laws, regulations and administrative provisions. We are indemanagement pendent of Alecta pensionsförsäkring, ömsesidigt according The Board of Directors and the CEO are responsible for the to generally accepted auditing practices in Sweden and have preparation of the sustainability reporting, including the in other respects performed our professional responsibilities mandatory sustainability report, in accordance with relevant according to these requirements. criteria or the Annual Accounts Act. The criteria are presented The procedures performed in a review and examination in in the sustainability reporting on page 42 and comprise those accordance with RevR 12 do not enable us to obtain such assurparts of the Sustainability Reporting Framework issued by GRI ance that we would become aware of all significant matters (Global Reporting Initiative) that are applicable to sustainabilthat might be identified in an audit. Therefore, the opinion ity reporting, and the accounting and calculation policies preexpressed based on a review and examination in accordance pared by the company itself. This responsibility also includes with RevR 12 does not give the same level of assurance as a conthe internal controls considered necessary to prepare a sustainclusion expressed based on an audit. ability report that is free from material misstatement, whether Our review of the sustainability report is based on the critedue to fraud or error. ria selected by the Board of Directors and management, which are defined above. We consider these criteria suitable for the The auditor’s responsibility preparation of the Sustainability Report. Our responsibility is to express a conclusion about the sustainWe believe that the evidence that we have obtained during ability reporting based on our review and to submit an opinion our review is sufficient and appropriate for the purpose of on the mandatory sustainability report. Our assignment is limexpressing our opinions below. ited to the information contained in this document and historical information presented and therefore does not encompass Opinion forward-looking information. Based on our review, we have not discovered any circumstancWe have conducted our review in accordance with ISAE es that would give us reason to believe that the sustainability 3000 Assurance Engagements Other Than Audits or Reviews report has not, in all material respects, been prepared in of Historical Financial Information. A review consists of makaccordance with the above criteria indicated by the Board of ing inquiries, primarily with persons responsible for the prepaDirectors and management. ration of the sustainability report, and applying analytical and A statutory sustainability report has been prepared. other review procedures. We have conducted our examination of the mandatory sustainability report in accordance with Stockholm, 24 March 2020 Ernst & Young AB Jesper Nilsson Outi Alestalo Authorised Public Accountant Specialist Member of FAR 44 ALECTA’S ANNUAL AND SUSTAINABILIT Y REPORT 2019 SUSTAINABILITY SUPPLEMENT Photo: Calle Bredberg/Johnér bildbyrå ALECTA’S ANNUAL AND SUSTAINABILIT Y REPORT 2019 45 Corporate Governance Report 2019 Efficient corporate governance ensures that the company is managed responsibly, sustainably and as efficiently as possible with satisfactory risk management and internal controls. Alecta’s corporate governance no formal obligation to do so. Rules in the Code which are not Alecta is a mutual life insurance company that is owned by adapted to the fact that the company is a mutual insurance the employers that have concluded retirement pension agreecompany are not applied, however. Another minor deviation ments with Alecta and by the people insured by Alecta. from the Code is that the interim report is not reviewed annuPreparing a corporate governance report is not a requireally by the company’s auditor. ment for Alecta according to the Swedish Insurance Companies Corporate governance involves the decision-making Annual Accounts Act. However, Alecta applies the Swedish systems and processes through which a company is governed Corporate Governance Code (the Code) even though it has and controlled. Photo: Alecta 46 ALECTA’S ANNUAL AND SUSTAINABILIT Y REPORT 2019 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE REPORT CORPORATE GOVERNANCE MODEL The Council of Administration External auditor Preparatory Committee and lay auditors Board of Directors Board Presidium Finance Committee Audit Committee Internal auditor CEO Senior management Staff functions Central functions Finance, Legal Affairs, HR, Purchasing and Risk Compliance Actuary Service, Communication and Sustainability Departments Customer, Product, Asset Management, IT Council of Administration and Preparatory tors and lay auditors are prepared by a preparatory committee, Committee appointed by the Council of Administration. The committee The Council of Administration is Alecta’s highest decisionworks in close cooperation with the organisations that appoint making body, corresponding to the General Meeting of Sharemembers of the Council of Administration and with the Chairholders under the Swedish Insurance Companies Act. The man of the Board. The Preparatory Committee also submits Council’s duties include electing the members of the Board of proposals on director fees, including remuneration for commitDirectors and external auditors, addressing the issue of release tee work and fees for Alecta’s auditors and lay auditors. from liability for the Board of Directors and CEO in respect of Since the meeting of the Council of Administration held in their management during the financial year, adopting income April 2019, the Preparatory Committee has the following memstatements and balance sheets for the Parent Company and the bers: Kenneth Bengtsson, convenor, Peter Hellberg, deputy conGroup, and deciding on the appropriation of the profit or loss venor, Peter Larsson and Ulrik Wehtje. for the year. The convenor and deputy convenor of the Committee are also Chairman and Deputy Chairman, respectively, of the CounThe Council of Administration consists of 38 members and cil of Administration. No special remuneration has been paid to eight deputies. Of which the members for their work on the Preparatory Committee. a) 1 9 members and four deputy members are appointed by the Confederation of Swedish Enterprise and External auditor and lay auditors b) 19 members and four deputy members are appointed by External auditors are elected by the Council of Administration Unionen, the Association of Managerial and Professional for a term of one to four years. The duty of the external auditors Staff (Ledarna), the Swedish Association of Graduate Engiis to examine Alecta’s Annual Report and accounting as well as neers (Sveriges Ingenjörer) and the Council for Negotiation the management performed by the Board of Directors and Chief and Cooperation (PTK). Executive Officer. The current external auditors, Ernst & Young AB, with To ensure that the interests and views of the retirees are repAuthorised Public Accountant Jesper Nilsson as auditor-inresented, the principle that some of the Council’s members charge, were initially elected at the 2014 annual meeting of the should include a number of retirees who are insured in Alecta Council of Administration for a term of one year and were subis applied. These members are appointed by the trade union sequently re-elected for one year at a time, most recently at the organisations indicated above. 2019 annual meeting of the Council of Administration. For each The Council of Administration elects directors and the financial year, the external auditors issue an audit report, which Chairman of the Board at the annual meeting of the Council of is included in Alecta’s annual and sustainability report. Administration for a period of one year and auditors for a period During the 2019 financial year, Ernst & Young, in addition to of one to four years. its external audit assignment, performed other assignments for Elections of directors, Chairman of the Board, external audiAlecta, such as tax consultations and inquiry assignments. For ALECTA’S ANNUAL AND SUSTAINABILIT Y REPORT 2019 47 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE REPORT more information on fees for the external auditors, refer to Note which are adapted to rules in the Code. As of 1 January 2016, 49 Disclosures of auditors’ fees. Alecta also complies with the Solvency II regulations on corpoFor the purpose of examining that Alecta’s operations are rate governance. managed appropriately and satisfactorily from a financial standAlecta’s Board of Directors continuously evaluates the CEO’s point, and for ensuring that other aspects of the internal control work. A formal evaluation is conducted once a year. Similarly, are appropriate, two lay auditors with two personal deputies the work within the Board is also evaluated annually. The are elected at the annual meeting of the Council of Administraresults of the Board’s evaluations are reported to the Council of tion until the time of the next annual meeting of the Council Administration’s Preparatory Committee. of Administration. For each financial year, the lay auditors Alongside the activities of the Board itself, the Board operissue a review report, which is included in Alecta’s annual and ates through three committees: the Board Presidium, which sustainability report. The 2019 annual meeting of the Council also functions as a Remuneration Committee, the Finance of Administration elected Niklas Hjert (with Kati Almqvist as Committee and the Audit Committee. The duties of the compersonal deputy) and Lars Jansson (with Lisbeth Gustafsson as mittees are defined in the rules of procedure for the Board. personal deputy) as lay auditors. For information regarding the fees paid to the lay auditors, see Note 48. Board Presidium The main duties of the Board Presidium are to administer and The Board of Directors adopt decisions on those matters which the Board delegates The Board of Directors is responsible for the organisation and to the Board Presidium, to advise the CEO in the day-to-day administration of Alecta. The Board decides on Alecta’s stratemanagement of the company and, prior to the Board meeting, gies and long-term targets, and is responsible for ensuring that prepare the business that is expected to be presented at the Alecta has adequate internal control. The Board is thereby meeting. The Board Presidium also acts as a remuneration comresponsible for ensuring that the necessary governance documittee and convenes at the initiative of the Chairman of the ments for Alecta’s operations are in place, and takes decisions Board. In 2019, the Board Presidium held four meetings, all of on matters such as Investment Guidelines, Actuarial Guidelines which were scheduled. and Corporate Governance Policy. Finance Committee Directors and CEO The Committee’s main task is to adopt detailed guidelines for At the annual meeting of the Council of Administration, the and to follow up Alecta’s day-to-day investment activities, to Council of Administration elects at least seven and not more prepare finance management matters that will be addressed than 14 directors for a term until the close of the next annual by the Board and to make decisions on certain investmentmeeting of the Council of Administration. The Board of Direcrelated matters falling outside the remit of the CEO. In 2019, tors also includes the directors and deputies that have been the Finance Committee held six meetings, four of which were appointed in accordance with the Board Representation (Prischeduled. vate Sector Employees) Act. The Board appoints Alecta’s CEO and the head of the interAudit Committee nal audit and defines the framework for their work. The CEO is The Audit Committee’s main task is to continuously evaluate responsible for the day-to-day management of the company in and communicate to the Board its view of Alecta’s risk exposure accordance with the guidelines and directions of the Board and and Management’s risk management. When it comes to finanfor ensuring that the operations are organised so that the comcial risks, this involves ensuring that financial risk reporting pany complies with applicable laws and regulations. The CEO functions well. The Audit Committee also supports the Board shall also ensure that the Board receives reports on the perforin monitoring and evaluating the internal and external audits, mance, results and financial position of Alecta on an ongoing preparing matters related to the Board’s work on assuring the basis, and is kept up to date on significant operational events. quality of Alecta’s financial reporting and overseeing Alecta’s The CEO’s general decisions in the day-to-day management of financial reporting. In 2019, the Committee held five meetings, the company are normally prepared by the management team, all of which were scheduled. which, in addition to the CEO, consists of eight of the heads of Alecta’s departments and central functions. The work of the Board of Directors in 2019 In 2019, the Board of Directors held seven meetings, of which Rules of procedure for the Board of Directors six were scheduled. Once annually, the Board meets up in a As a feature of governance, Alecta applies both rules of proceBoard seminar for a couple of days to discuss matters of stratedure for the Board of Directors and instructions for the CEO, gic importance to Alecta. 48 ALECTA’S ANNUAL AND SUSTAINABILIT Y REPORT 2019 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE REPORT The major matters addressed by the Board and its committees Risk’s mission is to: during the year included: • work for increased awareness and better knowledge of risks • Alecta 2023 – strategy work and to support the operations in their risk management • Development of property management work, • Refunds and premium pricing • improve processes, methods and documentation for risk • Implementation of the occupational pensions directive management, and into Swedish law • check and assess the quality of the business’s risk manage• Climate scenarios in ORSA reporting ment, make independent assessments and compile these in • PRI and monthly individual employer declaration data reports for Senior management and the Board of Directors. Risk management and internal control Compliance At Alecta, the duties of every manager and employee include The Compliance function’s mission involves regulatory compliworking for well-balanced internal control and appropriate risk ance risks in the operations subject to licences and other regulamanagement, although the Board of Directors and the CEO tions that govern Alecta’s operations. At least quarterly, Complihave ultimate responsibility for this. In order to ensure adeance submits a written report to the Board of Directors and the quate risk management and compliance with laws, regulations CEO. The Compliance function’s mission is to: and internal governance documents, Alecta’s risk management • provide advice to managers, the CEO and the Board in order and internal control procedures are based on a model with three to avoid shortcomings in regulatory compliance, lines of defence. • assess the consequences of changes in external and internal regulations, The first line of defence – operational risk • identify and assess regulatory compliance risks relating to management external and internal regulations, and Alecta’s departments and staff functions are responsible for the • assess whether Alecta’s measures to prevent regulatory risks that arise in their respective activities. This responsibilcompliance shortcomings are appropriate. ity entails identifying, evaluating, controlling and internally reporting risks. The operating units and support functions seek Actuary to ensure that clear processes and procedures have been estabThe Senior Actuary is organisationally a part of the Product lished, which together with the internal governing documents Department, but has an independent role and reports on his govern Alecta’s actions in various respects. own initiative to the CEO and the Board of Directors. The Senior Actuary within Alecta is responsible for the tasks that, The second and third lines of defence – central according to the Swedish Insurance Companies Act and regulafunctions tions, fall upon the Actuarial Function. These tasks include: In support of the operations, the Board of Directors and the • coordinating and assuring the quality of Alecta’s actuarial CEO, there are the central functions stipulated in the Swedish calculations and inquiries, Insurance Companies Act, namely the Risk, Compliance and • assisting the Board and the CEO and, on his own initiative, the Actuarial function (second line of defence) and the Internal submitting reports to them on matters relating to actuarial Audit (third line of defence) which are responsible for indemethods, calculations and assessments, and pendent company-wide monitoring in their respective areas of • submitting the annual actuarial report. responsibility. These functions use a risk-based approach and therefore give priority to activities and follow-ups in those areas Internal Audit where Alecta’s risks are greatest. Risk management is an inteThe internal audit is an independent examination function. The gral part of Alecta’s governance. To protect its customers and internal audit works on behalf of the Board and its duties are: other stakeholders, Alecta applies strict standards for how risks • to evaluate the internal control system, are controlled and managed. More information on risks and risk • to evaluate other parts of the corporate governance system, management is provided in the Administration Report on page and 65 and in Note 3 Risks and risk management on page 86. • to report results and, following the evaluations, present recommendations to the Board of Directors. Risk The mission of the Risk function is to make it easier for Alecta’s Governance documents and monitoring Board of Directors, CEO and managers to manage, control and Everyone who works at Alecta has a responsibility to help make decisions on risks. At least quarterly, Risk submits a writensure good internal control and is required to follow Alecta’s ten report to the Board and the CEO. ALECTA’S ANNUAL AND SUSTAINABILIT Y REPORT 2019 49 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE REPORT governance documents. The governance documents are adoptGuidelines for remuneration of ed by the CEO or the Board of Directors and are revised when Senior management required or at least annually. All employees have an independent In March 2019, the Board adopted guidelines for remuneraresponsibility to keep themselves informed of those governance tion and other employment conditions of Alecta’s Senior documents which affect them through Alecta’s intranet. The management, and the Council of Administration adopted the managers also have a responsibility to inform their employbelow guidelines at its meeting on 11 April 2019: ees of changes in the governance documents. As part of their Remuneration of the CEO and other senior executives in mandatory introduction programme, new employees receive Senior management consists of a basic salary, pension proviinformation about Alecta’s ethical rules. Regular monitoring sions and other benefits. Other senior executives are defined and reporting of outcomes are essential to effective governance, as the currently eight individuals who together with the CEO ensuring that governance processes are adapted to new requirecomprise Senior management. ments or criteria. The managers are responsible for ensuring appropriate monitoring and that controls are in place in their Salary respective areas of responsibility. Salary is set taking into account competencies, spheres of responsibility, authorities and performance, and is to be based Business follow-up on market-aligned conditions and principles. Variable remuThe Controller function continuously monitors operational perneration is not payable, either to the CEO or to any other senior formance regarding planned activities as well as cost outcomes executives in Senior management. and target achievement in relation to business and operational plans. On a quarterly basis, the Controller also prepares an Provision for pensions internal report for the Board of Directors and Senior manageAll members of Senior management are covered by the FTP ment. plan. The normal retirement age is 65. For the CEO, a provision of 35 per cent of salary is set aside for pensions, including conInternal control over financial reporting tributions to the FTP plan. The Board assures the quality of the financial reporting through, inter alia, the work of the Audit Committee. In this Severance pay and other benefits context, the committee addresses, where necessary, the critical The CEO and other Senior executives are subject to a period accounting matters and reviews the financial reporting that of notice from Alecta of six months in combination with sevAlecta intends to submit. erance pay corresponding to 12 monthly salaries, which is When compiling data for financial reporting, Alecta’s fully deductible against income from new employment. Finance Department conducts checks to ensure the quality of According to an agreement that was reached before these the data provided and that the financial reporting complies period of notice conditions started to apply, one senior execuwith laws and other regulations. In addition, the Controllers tive is subject to a period of notice of 18 months, with full analyse the financial results and position on a quarterly basis, deductibility of benefits received in any new employment the results of which are reported to Senior management and the during a corresponding period. Board. All members of Senior management are entitled to a compaThe external auditors attended three of the Audit Commitny car, and sickness compensation corresponding to 90 per cent tee’s meetings in 2019, whereby various matters related to the of cash gross salary during the first 12 months of any illness. audit were subject to discussion between the auditors and memOtherwise the same benefits as for other employees apply, such bers of the committee. During the year, the Audit Committee as health insurance and a fitness allowance. also examined and evaluated the work of the external auditors. The entire Board takes part of interim reports before they Process and decision-making are published and takes part and approves the annual and susMatters relating to salary and other terms of employment of the tainability report before it is published. CEO and other senior executives, and to Alecta’s variable remuThe external auditors have submitted written reports to the neration programme, are prepared by the Board of Directors’ Board of Directors concerning the year’s examination, which Presidium, in its capacity as the Remuneration Committee, for are an audit plan, a status report and the year-end report. They adoption by the Board. have also participated in a Board meeting to orally present a For information on remuneration and incentive programmes report on the 2019 audit and on the evaluation of the work of for 2019, refer to Note 48 on page 116. Senior management. 50 ALECTA’S ANNUAL AND SUSTAINABILIT Y REPORT 2019 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE REPORT Council of Administration and auditors Members and Deputy Auditors Members Elected auditors The Council of Administration’s 19 members The 19 members and four deputy members Ernst & Young AB, and four deputy members elected by the of the Council of Administration elected by Lead Audit Engagement Partner Confederation of Swedish Enterprise for the Unionen, the Association of Managerial and Jesper Nilsson period 2019–2021, unless otherwise indicated. Professional Staff (Ledarna), the Swedish Association of Graduate Engineers and the Members Council for Negotiation and Cooperation Björn Alvengrip, Mölle (PTK) for the period 2019–2021. Lay Auditors Kenneth Bengtsson, Stockholm, Chairman 1) Members Elected auditors Mattias Dahl, Stockholm Elisabeth Arbin (Sveriges Ingenjörer), Uppsala Niklas Hjert, Unionen Marcus Dahlsten, Stockholm Camilla Brown (PTK), Täby Lars Jansson, Confederation of Swedish Enterprise Eva Dunér, Gothenburg Stefan Carlsson (Unionen), Norrköping Catharina Elmsäter-Svärd, Enhörna Björn Ekblom (Unionen), Svanesund Deputy Members Inga-Kari Fryklund, Stockholm Thomas Eriksson (Ledarna), Örebro Kati Almqvist, Ledarna Nils Åke Hallström, Nälden Peter Hellberg (Unionen), Bandhagen, Lisbeth Gustafsson, Confederation of Swedish Vice Chairman 1) Enterprise Per Hidesten, Stockholm Gunnar Henriksson (Unionen), Tullinge, Karin Johansson, Stockholm also a representative of Alecta’s retirees Ulf Larsson, Sundsvall Martin Johansson (Unionen), Stockholm Staffan Lindquist, Helsingborg Ulrika Johansson (Unionen), Luleå Martin Lindqvist, Stockholm Gun Karlsson (Unionen), Stockholm Jan Moström, Luleå Victoria Kirchhoff (Unionen), Klagshamn Ola Månsson, Stockholm 2) Peter Larsson (Sveriges Ingenjörer), Enskede 1) Thord Sandahl, Värnamo Hans Lindau (Unionen), Sandared Henrik van Rijswijk, Stockholm Andreas Miller (Ledarna), Uppsala 2) Ulrik Wehtje, Malmö 1) Leif Nicklagård (Unionen), Sundbyberg Klas Wåhlberg, Västerås 2) Kristina Rådkvist (PTK), Enköping Therese Svanström (Unionen), Stockholm Deputy Members Therese Sysimetsä (Unionen), Stockholm Antje Dedering, Bromma Marina Åman (Unionen), Strängnäs 2) Hans Gidhagen, Upplands Väsby Jonas Hagelqvist, Stockholm Deputy Members Charlott Richardson, Sollentuna Nils-Harald Forssell (Unionen), Olofstorp, also a representative of Alecta’s retirees 1) Member of the Preparatory Committee Mikael Hansson (Unionen), Billdal 2) Deputy member of the Preparatory Committee Stefan Jansson (Sveriges Ingenjörer), Stockholm Sara Kullgren (Ledarna), Stockholm ALECTA’S ANNUAL AND SUSTAINABILIT Y REPORT 2019 51 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE REPORT Board of Directors Hanna Bisell Martin Linder Jan-Olof Jacke Position: Member Ingrid Bonde Position: Second Vice Chairman Born: 1969 Position: First Vice Chairman Born: 1973 Elected: 2016 Position: Chairman Born: 1965 Elected: 2016 Committee: Audit Committee (Chairman) Born: 1959 Elected: 2019 Committee: Board Presidium Other board assignments: Elected: 2019 Committee: Board Presidium Other board assignments: PTK (Chairman) Medlemsförsäkring (Chairman) Committee: Finance Committee (ChairOther board assignments: The Swedish and TCO Other assignments: – man), Board Presidium (Chairman) Exhibition & Congress Centre Foundation Other assignments: – Other: – Other board assignments: Apoteket AB (Vice Chairman), the Research Institute of Other: Unionen (President) Attendance Board Meetings: 7/7 (Chairman), Hoist Finance AB (Chairman), Industrial Economics, ICC Sweden and the Royal Swedish Academy of Engineering Attendance Board Meetings: 7/7 Committee attendance: 5/5 Swedish Climate Policy Council (Chairman), Securitas AB, Loomis AB, Royal Sciences. Committee attendance: 4/10 1) 2) Swedish Academy of Engineering SciencOther assignments: – es, Board of Trustees of the Centre for Other: Confederation of Swedish Enterprise Business and Policy Studies (SNS) and (Deputy CEO, member of the Board of Swedish Corporate Governance Board. Directors and member of the Executive Other assignments: – Board). Other: – Attendance Board Meetings: 5/7 1) Attendance Board Meetings: 6/7 1) Committee attendance: 3/4 1) Committee attendance: 8/10 1) Kaj Thorén Mikael Persson Birgitta Pernkrans Position: Member Richard Malmborg Position: Employee representative SACO Born: 1944 Position: Employee representative FTF Born: 1962 Elected: 2005 Position: Member Born: 1969 Elected: 2008 Committee: Finance Committee Born: 1961 Elected: 2015 Committee: – Other board assignments: – Elected: 2003 Committee: – Other board assignments: – Other assignments: – Committee: Audit Committee Other board assignments: – Other assignments: – Other: – Other board assignments: PTK (Vice Other assignments: – Other: – Attendance Board Meetings: 7/7 Chairman), SACO (First Vice Chairman) Other: – Attendance Board Meetings: 7/7 Committee attendance: 5/6 and Akademikertjänst AB (Chairman). Attendance Board Meetings: 7/7 Committee attendance: – Other assignments: – Committee attendance: – Other: Sveriges Ingenjörer (Director of Association) Attendance Board Meetings: 5/7 Committee attendance: 2/5 1) Member of Board and Committee from 11 April 2) Member of Finance Committee until 11 April 3) Member of Board Presidium until 11 April All board members, apart from employee representatives, are independent in relation to Alecta and Senior management. Since Alecta has no shareholders, the Code’s regulations about independent directors in relation to major shareholders are not applicable. 52 ALECTA’S ANNUAL AND SUSTAINABILIT Y REPORT 2019 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE REPORT Helena Hedlund Petra Hedengran Markus Granlund Position: Member Cecilia Fahlberg Pihlgren Position: Member Born: 1963 Position: Member Born: 1964 Elected: 2019 Position: Member Born: 1975 Elected: 2017 Committee: Audit Committee Born: 1960 Elected: 2019 Committee: Finance Committee Other board assignments: Elected: 2007 Committee: Audit Committee Other board assignments: Electrolux AB Trygghetsrådet TRR Committee: Finance Committee Other board assignments: Swedish ExhibiOther assignments: Association for Other assignments: – Other board assignments: – tion & Congress Centre Group and Board good practice in the securities market Other: Chief negotiator, Ledarna Other assignments: – assignments in several of Semcon’s foreign and the Swedish Association of Listed Attendance Board Meetings: 6/7 1) subsidiaries. Companies (Vice Chairman). Other: – Committee attendance: 3/5 1) Other assignments: – Other: Investor AB (General Counsel and Attendance Board Meetings: 5/7 Other: CEO Semcon AB Head of Corporate Governance and Committee attendance: 6/10 1) 3) Compliance and the EQT business area). Attendance Board Meetings: 5/7 1) Committee attendance: 3/5 1) Attendance Board Meetings: 6/7 Committee attendance: 6/6 Magnus von Koch Anders Weihe Position: Member Position: Member Born: 1962 Born: 1961 Elected: 2010 Elected: 2017 Committee: Finance Committee Committee: Audit Committee Other board assignments: Klara Norra Other board assignments: – Fastigheter AB (Chairman) Other assignments: – Other assignments: – Other: Senior advisor to CEO Other: Unionen (investment manager) Association of Swedish Engineering Attendance Board Meetings: 7/7 Industries Committee attendance: 6/6 Attendance Board Meetings: 4/7 Committee attendance: 5/5 ALECTA’S ANNUAL AND SUSTAINABILIT Y REPORT 2019 53 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE REPORT Senior management Katarina Thorslund Hans Sterte Position: Deputy CEO, Head of Customer Relations Magnus Billing Position: Deputy CEO, Born: 1962 Head of Investment Management Employed since: 2003 Position: CEO Born: 1961 Education: B.Sc. in Mathematics Born: 1968 Employed since: 2018 Previous experience: Chief Financial Officer Employed since: 2016 Education: M.Sc. in Business Administration and and Chief Actuary at Alecta. Previously Chief Actuary Education: LL.M. at Folksam Gruppförsäkring. Economics, Stockholm University Previous experience: CEO of Nasdaq Stockholm Previous experience: Most recently Head of Investand CEO of Nasdaq Nordics. ment Management at Skandia. Previously, Director Board assignments: Insurance Sweden, Employers’ Organof Finance at Länsförsäkringar AB. isation for the Swedish Insurance Industry and Stockholm Other board assignments: Brandkontoret Sustainable Finance Centre (Chairman) Other board assignments: Board of Trustees of the Centre for Business and Policy Studies (SNS) Camilla Wirth Maria Wahl Burvall Position: Chief Financial Officer Charlotte Rydin Position: Head of HR Born: 1970 Position: General Counsel Born: 1964 Employed since: 2017 Born: 1968 Employed since: 2014 Education: M.Sc. in Business and Economics Employed since: 2019 Education: M.Sc. in Business and Economics, majoring Previous experience: CFO Nordax Bank AB (publ), in Economics and Statistics CFO Aberdeen Property Investors IIM AB, Auditor Education: LL.M. and Consultant at KPMG Financial Services. Previous experience: General Counsel at the Swedish Previous experience: Economist, HR specialist and Financial Supervisory Authority, General Counsel and Head of HR at the Riksbank. Chief of Staff at the National Debt Office, Swedbank, Brummer & Partners. 54 ALECTA’S ANNUAL AND SUSTAINABILIT Y REPORT 2019 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE REPORT Fredrik Palm Ulf Larsson Position: Head of Products Martin Hedensiö Born: 1976 Position: Head of IT Position: Head of Communication and Sustainability Born: 1968 Employed since: 2013 Born: 1964 Employed since: 1998 Education: M.Sc. in Mathematical Statistics Employed since: 2016 Education: Bachelor of Arts in Business Administration Previous experience: Chief Actuary Alecta. Self-employed actuarial consultant. Consultant Education: M.Sc. in Accounting and Auditing Previous experience: Head of IT Architecture and Group and partner of consulting firm. Previous experience: Director of Communications at Head of Infrastructure at Alecta. Previously, consultant at Svenska Spel, Vice President Corporate Communications WM-data. Europe, Middle East & Africa at Nasdaq, Executive Partner, Head of Corporate and Financial Communications at Hallvarsson & Halvarsson, Deputy CEO of Springtime, Investor Relations Director at Electrolux. ALECTA’S ANNUAL AND SUSTAINABILIT Y REPORT 2019 55 Administration Report The Board of Directors and Chief Executive Officer of Alecta pensionsförsäkring, ömsesidigt hereby present their Annual and sustainability report for 2019, the company’s one hundred and third year of operations. Corporate Identity Number: 502014-6865 Registered office: Stockholm, Sweden Ownership and structure service and quality are the same as if the employees’ retirement Alecta is a mutual life insurance company. This means that the pensions had been secured through insurance. company is owned by the policy holders and the insureds, and Alecta Optimal Pension is also a selectable option in the that any surplus generated is returned to the policy holders and other big collective bargaining areas: private-sector employees the insureds. covered by the collective occupational pension plan AvtalspenAlecta pensionsförsäkring, ömsesidigt is the Parent Compasion SAF-LO, government employees in the PA 16 collective ny of the Alecta Group. In 2019, the activities of the Group were bargaining area, employees of municipally owned enterprises conducted in-house with the exception of some parts of Alecta’s covered by the PA-KFS occupational pension plan, and local asset management and IT operations, which were performed authority and county council employees covered by the KAPby external service providers under contract. Some of the tasks KL/AKAP-KL plans. We are also the default option and a selectperformed by Collectum and other selection centres outside the able option in the collective bargaining area for the insurance framework of the ITP and other pension plans are also considindustry, FTP. ered to be performed on behalf of Alecta and the other particiAlecta also offers occupational group life insurance (TGL). pating insurance companies. Employees Operations and products In 2019, the average number of employees in the Alecta Group Alecta offers occupational pensions through selection centres was 366 (367), or 356 on a full-time equivalent basis (356). under collectively agreed occupational pension plans, i.e. insurAt year-end 2019, the total number of employees in the ance schemes based on collective bargaining agreements that Group was 370 (365), of whom 343 worked in the Parent Comare tied to the employment relationship and for which the prepany (340). The share of female employees was 60 per cent (59) miums are paid by the employer. and the average age of employees was 48 years (48). Alecta’s principal mission is to manage the various parts of Information on the average number of employees, salaries the ITP occupational pension plan on behalf of the Confederaand benefits is provided in Note 48 on pages 116–120. The Note tion of Swedish Enterprise and the Council for Negotiation also describes the principles for determining the remuneration and Cooperation (PTK), which have concluded collective barand benefits of senior executives as well as the applicable draftgaining agreements. Alecta manages the ITP 2 defined benefit ing and decision-making processes. retirement pension plan and the ITP 1 defined contribution retirement pension plan. In addition to retirement pensions, the ITP 2 plan also comprises defined benefit family pensions and ITPK defined contribution supplementary retirement pensions. Defined contribution retirement pensions are offered through the Alecta Optimal Pension product, which is the default option and a selectable option for ITP 1 as well as ITPK. Alecta has also been contracted to manage the disability and life insurance products provided under the ITP plan. These include the risk insurance products disability pension, waiver of premium and family cover. Under the ITP agreement, employers have the option of funding their employees’ retirement pensions by recognising liabilities in their balance sheets under the “PRI model”. Obligations that have been secured under the PRI model are administered by Alecta on behalf of PRI Pensionsgaranti. The level of 56 ALECTA’S ANNUAL AND SUSTAINABILIT Y REPORT 2019 ADMINISTRATION REPORT Net profit and financial position ing programme and signalled that interest rates were expected The Group reported a net profit for the year of SEK 93.3 billion to remain low for the foreseeable future. (net loss: –26.8). Comments on Alecta’s result and financial Concerns over weak global economic growth, an escalation position are presented in the following. of US/China trade tensions and faltering Brexit negotiations led interest rates to further decline from low levels during the Premiums written first half of the year. However, stock markets looked past the Premiums written in 2019 totalled SEK 52.8 billion (48.2), see financial and political uncertainties and found optimism in Note 4 on page 88. Premiums written can be divided into the decreased risk of recession that led the stock markets to invoiced premiums and guaranteed refunds. sharply rise in the two first quarters. During the third quarter, Invoiced premiums were SEK 41.1 billion (37.7). The increase stock markets were impacted by a lower risk appetite when geoin invoiced premiums compared with the preceding year was political conflicts and effects of the protracted trade war were chiefly due to a growing volume for Alecta’s defined contribureflected in economic data. European and US interest rates contion product, Alecta Optimal Pension. tinued to fall and towards the end of summer, the interest rates Guaranteed refunds amounted to SEK 11.7 billion (10.5) and hit record-low levels. comprised premium reductions on employers’ premiums for During the fourth quarter, economic statistics from both the disability and premium waiver insurance, family cover and US and Europe indicated some macroeconomic stabilisation. TGL, and an increase in earned pension entitlements (adjustFears of a recession were replaced by hopes for economic recovment of paid-up values). The increase in guaranteed refunds is ery. Macroeconomic statistics came in stronger than market largely due to the upward adjustment of paid-up values by 2.32 expectations and led to rising interest rates during the autumn. per cent that was implemented in January and which was based Progress in the US/China trade talks towards a ‘phase one’ on the change in the consumer price index between September deal were also interpreted positively, as was the decisive out2017 and September 2018. come of the UK’s general election in December which removed the uncertainty surrounding the Brexit process. The UK is now Return on capital unambiguously on its path towards leaving the EU. Altogether Financial markets this again led to rising stock markets in the fourth quarter. In 2019, global stock markets staged a remarkable comeback The Swedish krona has during the year continued to weaken from the previous year and climbed to new record highs. The against the major currencies. However in the final quarter, the positive stock-market trend is largely due to the central banks’ Riksbank’s increasingly clear intention to bring interest rates reversal of monetary policy in order to prevent a global recesout of negative territory led the Swedish krona to stabilize and sion. At the end of 2018, the US Federal Reserve planned several strengthen against both the Euro and the US dollar. interest rate hikes in 2019, but changed its policy and at midThe stock markets posted their best year since 2009. Meayear signalled that interest rates would be lowered instead, and sured in local currencies, the return on MSCI Sweden was: 29.7 three cuts followed during the autumn. The ECB contributed to per cent, MSCI USA: 32.6 per cent, MSCI Europe: 27.9 per cent the expansionary monetary policy with a continued bond-buyand MSCI Emerging Markets: 19.0 per cent. NET PROFIT/LOSS FOR THE YEAR INVOICED PREMIUMS TOTAL RETURN, FIVE-YEAR AVERAGE SEK billion SEK billion Per cent 100 50 15 80 40 12 60 Defined contribution insurance 30 9 40 Defined benefit insurance 20 20 6 0 10 3 –20 –40 0 0 2015 2016 2017 2018 2019 2015 2016 2017 2018 2019 2015 2016 2017 2018 2019 ALECTA’S ANNUAL AND SUSTAINABILIT Y REPORT 2019 57 ADMINISTRATION REPORT Return The total return on Alecta’s investments in 2019 was 14.8 per percentage points lower than Morningstar’s benchmark index cent (–2.2). The high return was largely attributable to the for balanced funds during the same period. Over the past five upturn in the stock market, but also real estate made a posiyears, Alecta Optimal Pension has generated an average annual tive contribution. Generally lower interest rates also helped to return of 7.7 per cent (6,7). achieve positive returns on the interest-bearing assets. Alecta’s The return on Alecta’s defined benefit insurance product average annual return over the past five years is 6.0 per cent was 14.1 per cent (–2.0). The average annual return over the past (5.6). five years is 5.8 per cent (5.6). In the income statement, return The return on shares for the year was 32.8 per cent (–6.9), on capital for the Group, including unrealised value changes, while the return on debt securities was 2.6 per cent (0.3) and was SEK 125.0 billion (–18.0). 7.6 per cent (6.6) on alternative investments. At year-end, real At year-end 2019, the market value of Alecta’s total investestate accounted for 98 per cent of the alternative investments. ment assets amounted to SEK 962.7 billion (823.9). Of this, the The return on Alecta’s defined contribution savings product, Alecta Optimal Pension’s default portfolio accounted for SEK Alecta Optimal Pension, was 20.3 per cent (–3.5), which was 2.7 131.1 billion (96.5). Total return table for Market value Market value Total return, per cent investments, total 31 Dec 2019 31 Dec 2018 Average SEK million % SEK million % 2019 2015–2019 Shares 410,861 42.7 322,577 39.2 32.8 10.2 Debt securities 451,424 46.9 419,781 50.9 2.6 1.6 Alternative investments 1) 100,392 10.4 81,574 9.9 7.6 10.7 Total investments 962,678 100.0 823,932 100.0 14.8 6.0 1) Alternative investments include real estate. Total returns for each year and asset class for the period 2015–2019, which are included in the average total return, are presented in the five-year summary on page 67. The total return table has been prepared in accordance with the recommendations of Insurance Sweden. The reporting and valuation of the investments do not agree with the accounting principles applied in the financial statements. A reconciliation between the total return table and the financial statements is presented in Note 47. Total return table for Market value Market value Total return, per cent investments, defined contribution 31 Dec 2019 31 Dec 2018 insurance (Alecta Optimal Pension) Average SEK million % SEK million % 2019 2015–2019 Shares 79,278 60.5 54,518 56.6 32.8 10.2 Debt securities 37,976 29.0 32,130 33.4 2.6 1.7 Alternative investments 1) 13,812 10.5 9,654 10.0 7.6 10.7 Total investments 131,066 100.0 96,302 100.0 20.3 7.7 1) Alternative investments include real estate. The proportion of shares in Alecta Optimal Pension is higher than in Alecta’s other products. The table above refers to the portfolio that constitutes Alecta’s default option, which has a 60 per cent share component. The market value of the total Alecta Optimal Pension portfolio, i.e. including all asset classes, is SEK 140.5 billion (103.0). Total return table for Market value Market value Total return, per cent investments, defined 31 Dec 2019 31 Dec 2018 benefit insurance Average SEK million % SEK million % 2019 2015–2019 Shares 327,492 39.8 265,337 36.8 32.8 10.2 Debt securities 409,112 49.8 384,353 53.3 2.6 1.6 Alternative investments 1) 85,587 10.4 71,250 9.9 7.6 10.7 Total investments 822,191 100.0 720,939 100.0 14.1 5.8 1) Alternative investments include real estate. The total return tables refer to the Group. Due to rounding, the sum of the figures shown in the tables above may differ from the totals. 58 ALECTA’S ANNUAL AND SUSTAINABILIT Y REPORT 2019 ADMINISTRATION REPORT Alecta’s portfolio composition, 31 December 2019 TOTAL INVESTMENT PORTFOLIO DEBT SECURITIES, geographic distribution DEBT SECURITIES, type of issuer Alternative investments USA 16.8 % Municipalities 7.8 % Other 0.7 % 10.4 % Corporates Government Shares Debt Europe Sweden 25.0 % and 42.7 % securities 38.2 % 45.0 % Government 46.9 % guaranteed 49.1 % Swedish housing finance institutions 17.4 % SHARES, geographic distribution SHARES, sector UK 5.6 % Denmark 3.7 % Consumer staples Materials 4.7 % Germany 3.5 % 6.2 % Switzerland Industrial 26.8 % IT 16.0 % 11.9 % Sweden 39.2 % Rest of Healthcare world 9.7 % 13.3 % Financial 19.1 % USA 26.4 % Consumer discretionary 13.9 % ALTERNATIVE INVESTMENTS, ALTERNATIVE INVESTMENTS, geographic distribution category* Hotel 3.6 % Other 2.8 % Rest of world 3.8 % Public-sector properties 4.5 % USA 12.0 % Industrial 11.7 % Office 31.0 % UK 15.4 % Retail 14.3 % Sweden 68.8 % Residential 32.1 % * The distribution of category pertains to Alecta’s real estate holdings Alecta’s five largest shareholdings, 31 December 2019 Market value according to total return Stock Sector Market value, SEK million table and refers to listed shareholdings. Investor AB (publ) Financial 23,007 A complete list of Alecta’s holdings in shares, participations and real estate has Atlas Copco AB (publ) Industrial 18,572 been published on alecta.se. Microsoft Corp IT 17,203 Roche Holding AG Healthcare 15,438 Sandvik AB (publ) Industrial 15,014 ALECTA’S ANNUAL AND SUSTAINABILIT Y REPORT 2019 59 ADMINISTRATION REPORT Changes in the portfolio • Due to lower market rates in 2019, the yield curve used in At year-end, the proportion of shares of the portfolio was 42.7 the measurement declined, which increased provisions by per cent (39.2). The change is due to price increases in the stock SEK 28.5 billion (8.4). The average cash flow-weighted rate market. The country allocation remained largely unchanged declined from 2.15 to 1.81 per cent in 2019. compared with the previous year. • Cumulative return, after deduction for released tax and At year-end, the real estate portion of the portfolio was 10.4 operating expenses, increased the technical provisions by per cent (9.9). The increase was partly driven by the higher SEK 13.7 billion (13.6). market value of the real estate, but mainly by net investments of • New mortality assumptions increased technical provisions SEK 11.5 billion in real estate. The composition of the portfolio is by SEK 6.7 billion. presented on page 59. • Other changes and results led to an overall increase of SEK 0.4 billion in technical provisions. Claims incurred Claims incurred consist partly of insurance claims paid and For further information, see Notes 36 and 37 on pages 112 partly of changes in provisions for claims outstanding. and 113. In 2019, insurance claims paid, which mainly comprise benefits incurred in retirement pensions, disability and life insurOperating expenses ance, increased to SEK 21,8 billion (21,0). The increase is largely Operating expenses for the insurance business, which are attributable to a greater number of new retirees and a higher termed operating expenses in the income statement, increased average pension amount than for retirees whose payments by SEK 16 million compared with the preceding year and ended due to death or because the beneficiary reached the final amounted to SEK 591 million (575). The increase was mainly payment age. Operating expenses incurred in connection with due to higher IT costs incurred by the work that has begun to the settlement of claims are included in claims paid and in 2019 exploit the technology for creating efficiencies and customer totalled SEK 143 million (140). See also Note 8 on page 89. value, as well as higher costs for the agency agreement with The change in the provision for claims outstanding was Collectum. SEK –3.6 billion (–0.2). Management expense ratio Technical provisions The management expense ratio of 0.08 remained unchanged Technical provisions comprise the net present value of Alecta’s compared with full-year 2018. The ratio for pension products guaranteed obligations for insurance contracts in force and excluding selection centre costs also remained unchanged at are divided into provisions for life insurance and provisions for 0.05. claims outstanding. Technical provisions were SEK 570.6 billion at 31 December 2019. This is an increase of SEK 57.5 billion Tax expense (34.3) for 2019, which was due to the following reasons: In 2019, the yield tax, net of foreign tax credits, was SEK 292 million (318). Yield tax is payable on Alecta’s pension products • Premiums and payment resulted in an increase in technical and on family cover. provisions of SEK 31.2 billion (27.3), of which SEK 7.2 billion The income tax expense, which comprises current and (6.3) refers to guaranteed refunds in the form of earned pendeferred tax, was SEK 4,345 million (721). The deferred tax sion entitlements. expense is net of income and expenses. The expense includes • Due to the difference between underlying premiums and a deferred tax expense of SEK 2,449 million attributable to assumptions in the calculation of technical provisions, the a reduction of the deferred tax asset associated with future provisions declined with SEK 14.7 billion (16.9) for savings deductions of foreign tax due to the fact that foreign tax is not insurance. in its entirety expected to be used for deductions within the • Due to the disability and waiver of premium insurance period permitted by law. In addition to Swedish income tax, results, the provisions declined by SEK 6.8 billion (2.5), of the item also includes coupon tax and foreign income tax. In which morbidity assumptions reduced the provisions by Sweden, the business segments disability pension, waiver of SEK 3.8 billion. premium and TGL are subject to income tax. • Due to new reduction factors, which are applied when an insured chooses temporary payment of a lifelong defined benefit retirement pension, technical provisions declined SEK 1.5 billion. 60 ALECTA’S ANNUAL AND SUSTAINABILIT Y REPORT 2019 ADMINISTRATION REPORT Distribution of surplus a premium reduction for the defined benefit age and family A surplus arises when the return on Alecta’s assets exceeds pension of 10 per cent in relation to the applicable premium the financial cost of its guaranteed obligations but can also for current premiums for 2019, and to retain premium reducarise in other situations, for example when actual outcomes tions of 65 per cent for disability and premium waiver insurfor mortality, morbidity and operational expenses are posiance, 75 per cent for family cover and SEK 9 per insured and tive. A more detailed presentation of how the surplus arises is month for TGL. provided in the alternative income statement on pages 68–69. Alecta is a mutual company, which means that any surplus Collective funding and solvency generated is returned to our customers – the policy holders The defined contribution insurance products had a collective and the insureds. The surplus is returned in the form of funding ratio of 100 per cent (100), which is the normal level refunds. Over the past 15-year period (2005–2019), Alecta has when surpluses or deficits are allocated to the insureds on a distributed SEK 106 billion in refunds. The refunds have been monthly basis. distributed to the policy holders and the insureds in the form Alecta’s funding policy for its defined benefit insurance of pension supplements, increases in earned pension entitleproducts states to maintain a collective funding ratio of 125 to ments, premium reductions and client-company funds. 175 per cent under normal conditions, and to apply the followFor Alecta’s defined contribution insurance product, Alecta ing limits for the allocation of refunds: Optimal Pension, any surplus or deficit is allocated directly to • 125 per cent – lowest limit for indexation of pensions the insureds on a monthly basis, which is why the collective (pension supplement) funding ratio is normally always 100 per cent. Any surplus is • 135 per cent – lowest limit for increase in vested pension distributed in connection with the payment of a supplement (adjustment of paid-up values) to the guaranteed pension, in accordance with the actuarial • 150 per cent – lowest limit for premium reduction guidelines adopted by Alecta’s Board of Directors. • 175 per cent – lowest limit for other refunds to For defined benefit insurance products, Alecta’s Board policy holders of Directors decides each year whether and in what form refunds should be distributed. For 2019, the Board approved At year-end 2019, the collective funding ratio for the Group’s an upward adjustment of defined benefit pensions by 2.32 per defined benefit insurance products was 148 per cent (142). cent. The adjustment applies to pensions in payment as well The collective funding capital was SEK 263.3 billion (210.6). as earned pension entitlements, known as paid-up policies, Alecta’s solvency ratio at year-end 2019 was 169 per cent and is based on the change in CPI between September 2017 (161). and September 2018. The Board of Directors also approved SOLVENCY RATIO COLLECTIVE FUNDING RATIO, MANAGEMENT EXPENSE RATIO defined benefit insurance for pension products, excluding selection centre costs Per cent Per cent Per cent 200 200 0.10 180 180 0.08 160 160 0.06 140 140 0.04 120 120 0.02 100 100 0.00 2015 2016 2017 2018 2019 2015 2016 2017 2018 2019 2015 2016 2017 2018 2019 ALECTA’S ANNUAL AND SUSTAINABILIT Y REPORT 2019 61 ADMINISTRATION REPORT COLLECTIVE FUNDING Raised premiums upon redemption DEVELOPMENT SOLVENCY RATIO, defined benefit In autumn 2019, Alecta’s Board of Directors decided to raise IN 2019 RATIO insurance employers’ single premiums upon the redemption of defined Opening balance 161.4 % 141.7 % benefit retirement pensions. This measure is a result of the Return 22.8 % 19.2 % sharp fall in market rates during 2019. Current premiums are Cumulative return, TP –4.4 % –3.7 % not affected by the decision. The decision means that the preChanged discount rate –8.5 % –7.0 % mium rate for single premiums will decrease from 0.85 per cent Premiums –0.2 % –0.2 % to 0.25 per cent. For an average PRI redemption, the measure Guaranteed pension paid 2.4 % 1.7 % will raise the premium by about 13 per cent. Pension supplement paid –0.5 % –0.7 % Adjustment of paid-up New Chairman of the Board values –2.2 % –1.1 % Ingrid Bonde was elected new Chairman of the Board for Alecta Premium reductions –1.3 % –1.2 % Pensionsförsäkring, ömsesidigt at the Council of AdministraChanged TP assumptions –1.8 % –1.6 % tion’s meeting on 11 April 2019. Erik Åsbrink stepped down Disability result 1.9 % 1.6 % from the chairmanship after 19 years of service. Ingrid Bonde Other –0.7 % –0.8 % has previously served as Vice President and CFO of Vattenfall Closing balance 168.9 % 147.9 % AB, CEO of AMF Pension and Director General of the Swedish Financial Supervisory Authority. She currently serves on several company boards, is Chairman of the Board of Hoist Proposed appropriation of profits Finance AB and Apoteket AB and chairs the Swedish Climate The Board of Directors and Chief Executive Officer propose to Policy Council. the Council of Administration that the Parent Company’s profit for 2019 of SEK 92,469,545,106 be transferred to the surplus Organisational changes fund. At Alecta’s Board meeting on 14 March, Hans Sterte was The Board and CEO propose that the Council of Administraappointed Deputy CEO of Alecta. He is currently Head of tion approve the resolution of the Board regarding refunds as Investment Management at Alecta, a role he has held since set forth in the section Distribution of surplus in the Adminisspring 2018. Katarina Thorslund is also Deputy CEO as well tration Report on page 61. as Head of Customer Relations. Significant events New act opens up for a conversion to a Alecta is investing SEK 6.2 billion in mutual occupational pension company Heimstaden Bostad AB On 15 December 2019, a new act (2019:742) on occupational Heimstaden Bostad has decided to expand its core market of pension companies became effective, whereby the European the Nordic region to also include most of Europe. As part of this Union’s Second Occupational Pensions Directive (IORP II) strategy, the company will strengthen its capital base by a total was implemented in Sweden. of SEK 9.5 billion with an investment from its principal owners, Alecta finds it positive that Sweden has taken advantage Heimstaden AB and Alecta. Of this amount, SEK 6.2 billion will of the possibility enabled by the IORP II Directive, to create a come from Alecta. separate Swedish business regulation tailored for occupational pension business, which is the kind of business that Alecta is Decision on refunds and premiums for 2020 carrying out. Alecta has also worked actively for several years to Alecta’s Board of Directors has decided to increase defined promote the introduction of the Occupational Pension Compabenefit pensions by 1.45 per cent in January 2020, matching the nies Act. This work was based on the assumption that a legislainflation rate over the past year. The decision covers pensions tion tailored to the provision of occupational pensions ought to in payment as well as earned pension entitlements. The Board be considerably more appropriate for Alecta’s customers than a of Directors has also decided to retain premium reductions of legislation designed to regulate all conceivable types of insur65 per cent for disability and premium waiver insurance, and ance products. reduce premium reductions for family cover from 75 per cent to Among other things, the new Occupational Pension Com50 per cent. For TGL, premium reductions will be raised from panies Act provides an opportunity for insurance companies SEK 9 to SEK 11 per insured and month. such as Alecta, which only provides occupational pensions, to 62 ALECTA’S ANNUAL AND SUSTAINABILIT Y REPORT 2019 ADMINISTRATION REPORT convert from an insurance company to an occupational pension of February. Total return for the first two months of the year company. was –1.9 per cent. Alecta’s financial position was adversely A conversion decision will be made by Alecta’s Council of impacted during the first two months but remains at a healthy Administration and requires at least a two-thirds majority vote level. The risk margin in the stress test decreased during the on the meeting of the Council of Administration. period from SEK 230 billion to SEK 190 billion. The Occupational Pension Companies Act also stipulates At present, there is insufficient data available to quantify any that the conversion to an occupational pension company must effects of the coronavirus for Alecta’s insurance commitments, not impair the rights of policy holders, the insureds or other but because the dominant insurance risk in Alecta is the risk individuals who are eligible for benefits. An application to that insureds live longer than expected, we assess the risk for convert to an occupational pension company is reviewed and weaker key performance indicators as a result of insurance risk approved by the Swedish Financial Supervisory Authority. as minor. Should Alecta not convert to an occupational pension company, the company’s operations must, by 31 December 2022, Outlook be fully adapted to the Insurance Business Act introduced in Financial markets 2016, which is based on the European Union’s second Insurance 2019 was a record year for stock markets all over the world. Not Directive, the so called Solvency II Directive. since the years immediately after the financial crisis has a year Critical to the decision regarding whether or not Alecta been so strong. This was despite the fact that 2019 was characshould convert to an occupational pension company is the terised by economic turmoil and central banks signalling tough determination of which regulation, the Occupational Pension times ahead. The performance of stock markets is not guided by Companies Act or the Swedish Insurance Business Act, is conwhat is happening now or in the coming quarters, but by what sidered best for Alecta’s customers. the world will look like in the coming years. The view is that the Alecta has analysed the new Occupational Pension Compaworld is not entering a new recession and that the high gains nies Act, and its associated regulations from the Swedish Finanwill therefore continue. Since the return on alternative investcial Supervisory Authority, and compared it with corresponding ments, such as bonds, is also weak, the price of shares is considregulations for insurance companies. Alecta’s conclusion is that ered relatively attractive even after a strong market year. the new regulations, in critical parts, provide better conditions During the year, long-term interest rates fell equally as for the provision of occupational pensions than those provided steadily as stock markets rose. Despite historically low interest by the Insurance Business Act. This applies particularly to the rates at the start of 2019, Swedish long-term rates, for example, rules for risk-adjusted capital requirement, which provide a high fell by a full 0.8 percentage points in August to the lowest level level of consumer protection while also providing better opporhistorically of –0.4 per cent. A strong contributing factor was tunities to generate a high risk-adjusted return on the pension that expectations of further stimulus from central banks rose. capital and thereby also higher pensions. Fixed-income markets have become accustomed to rapid new In light of the above, it is likely that Alecta’s Council of initiatives from central banks as soon as the economy starts to Administration, in 2020, or at least before the end of 2022, slow. Interest rates remain very low but since capacity utilisawill be asked to consider a proposal that Alecta should apply tion in the global economy has gradually increased in recent for conversion from a mutual insurance company to a mutual years and inflation has returned to normal levels in most counoccupational pension company. tries, we see few reasons why interest rates should continue to fall in the coming years. In light of the increasingly expansionSignificant events after the balance ary fiscal policy, it is more likely that public borrowing will sheet date increase, which should create some upward pressure on interest The beginning of 2020 has largely been characterised by conrates moving forward. What we have experienced over the past cern about the coronavirus outbreak in China and its impact. At 10 years, with increasingly expansionary and innovative central the end of February, it became apparent that the breakout of the banks, also seems to be coming to an end. In the coming years, virus had become widespread in Italy, which radically changed stimulus will probably be withdrawn and central banks will the situation and led to a sharp fall on stock exchanges worldonce again allow free setting of interest rates. In the current sitwide and large declines in interest rates. uation, all interest rates are set administratively by the central Market developments since the outbreak have, taken togethbanks. Since interest rates affect all other investment analyses, er, resulted in a decrease in value of Alecta’s total investments the pricing of all assets, including risk assets, is now more or since 1 January, which amounted to SEK 947 billion at the end less manipulated via monetary policy. ALECTA’S ANNUAL AND SUSTAINABILIT Y REPORT 2019 63 ADMINISTRATION REPORT In general, the currency market remained relatively stable in sions in relation to the State pension, especially among private2019. Despite a record-strong Swedish economy and world-class sector employees. fiscal position, the continued weakening of the SEK stands out. Premiums for occupational pensions are growing. One conThere is only one explanation – the Riksbank’s one-sided focus on tributing factor is the transition from ITP 2 to ITP 1, since many a mechanical attempt to achieve an arbitrarily set inflation target private-sector employees with ITP 1 have now reached an age of 2 per cent. Given the Riksbank’s extreme interest-rate policy where their career is taking off and receive larger premiums with negative benchmark rates, the SEK has become a favourable paid on salaries exceeding 7.5 income base amounts. At the currency to borrow for investments in other higher yielding cursame time, higher premiums in defined benefit ITP 2, due to rencies. One way to illustrate the weak performance of the SEK is increased life expectancy and low market rates, have an effect that in 2019, the SEK fell 10 per cent against the GBP, despite the on employers’ costs. In addition, flexible pension provisions are complex and unclear situation in the UK. However, the Riksbank also higher. seems to have finally realised that its policies have obviously Contributions to savings insurance under the ITP plan negative consequences for Sweden and has resumed a return to a amount to approximately SEK 50 billion in annual premiums. more moderate policy, albeit at a slow pace. An estimated premium volume of about SEK 9 billion for alterAlecta’s strategy for meeting these ever-present challenges native ITPs outside of the collective agreement can be added in the financial market is to maintain very high safety margins to this amount. These alternative ITP premiums are expected in its use of risk, and by only owning, and lending money to, to remain at roughly the same level for several years to come, quality companies. Apart from faring relatively better in a stock despite a decline in the number of ten-fold earners who have market downturn, these companies are able to exploit turbulent opted out of ITP 2 at some time, before the effect of retirements situations to conclude corporate deals on favourable terms. exceeds the premium effect of the ten-fold earners’ salary The same applies for Alecta. With good margins, we can take a increases. proactive approach in any recoil, and thus turn volatile markets Under ITP 1, it is not possible to opt out of the collectively into a good business opportunity, laying the foundation for agreed occupational pension for an alternative pension solution. good long-term returns for our customers. Under current tax rules, however, insureds with higher salary can exchange some of their salary for extra pension premiums, The labour market and pensions market usually in the market outside the products procured by ColLabour market demand, which has been characterised by high lectum. Since the salary that is exchanged reduces the ITP 1 demand for several years, declined in 2019 and unemployment premium, typically 30 per cent, the employer normally comis expected to rise. However, some parts of the business sector pensates the 30 per cent premium loss. As a consequence of salare still affected by skill shortages due to inadequate matching ary exchange among employees with ITP 1, collectively agreed of job seekers’ skills with the changing requirements of compremiums are therefore transferred to the market outside the panies. Automation and digitalisation are leading to continued collective agreement. Salary exchange is currently marketed pressure on transformation, where work content is changing, actively by both brokers and pension companies and the projobs are disappearing and new jobs are emerging. Skills developportion is expected to grow moving forward. However, salary ment and skills transfer are important for good mobility. exchange is heavily dependent on current tax rules, including Both the State pension and occupational pension are based the right to deduct, and there are indications of a political desire on the principle of lifetime income, with a long working life as to change the law, which could make this business opportunity an employee. However, rapid changes in jobs and work content more difficult. mean that certain groups are excluded from the labour market There is now a trend that employers are seeking simple and for long periods. In addition, relatively many newly arrived rational solutions for occupational pensions, rather than creatimmigrants are entering the labour market when they are ing special solutions. This is what makes the collectively agreed middle aged. That a growing group is unable to earn a pension occupational pension attractive. Among employees – especially throughout their entire working life – and will therefore have a private-sector employees – there is still a high level of confidence low pension – raises questions about whether the pension sysin the occupational pension, which they mainly associate with tem needs to be changed, alternatively supplemented with, for the collective agreement, rather than their own savings. example, tax relief for private savings or increased deductibility That the collectively agreed occupational pension is both for employers. perceived as attractive and generates growing premium volIn recent decades, real wages have shown a relatively positive umes is increasing the interest of life insurance companies to be trend, which has increased the significance of occupational penincluded in the collectively agreed platforms. The rapid growth 64 ALECTA’S ANNUAL AND SUSTAINABILIT Y REPORT 2019 ADMINISTRATION REPORT in premiums enables high earnings, even though Collectum’s Alecta Optimal Pension’s operating expenses, including interest procurements have pushed fee levels downwards. Several comon the deficit, accounted for 0.07 per cent (0.09) of the capital panies are investing in order to cut costs and digitalise their in 2019. Investment management expense is additional and in customer relationships. Prior to the next procurement, several 2019, amounted to approximately 0.02 per cent (0.02) of mancompetitors will be able to offer fees that are very close to Alecaged assets. ta’s. Technological advances may also mean that new operaThe dominant risk in pension products like Alecta Optimal tors, who do not need to deal with heavy investments in old IT Pension is the financial risk exposure, i.e. the risk that the systems, will be able to enter the market for collectively agreed product will not be able to bear the associated market risks. occupational pensions. However, Alecta Optimal Pension has a higher solvency ratio than Alecta as a whole, mainly because the guarantees in Alecta Product reporting Optimal Pension are lower than in the defined benefit penAlecta operates in accordance with principles of mutuality and sion products. At year-end 2019, Alecta Optimal Pension had a is required to ensure that income and expenses are allocated solvency ratio of 227 per cent (213), compared with 169 per cent equitably among its various products. Our ability to use econo(161) for Alecta as a whole. mies of scale and spread shared expenses across all products enables us to add value for our customers. Alecta’s product Risk management and risk organisation areas are: To protect the interests of our customers and other stakeholders, we need to ensure that we maintain strict control Pension insurance of risks and of how risks are managed. Insurance risks need to • Defined benefit pensions (primarily ITP) be managed in a way which ensures that Alecta is able to meet • Defined contribution pensions (mainly ITP but also in other its insurance commitments. The financial risks taken must gencollective bargaining areas) erate the highest possible return without jeopardising Alecta’s commitments to the insureds. Other risks, such as compliance, Risk insurance sustainability and information security risks, need to be man• Disability and life insurance products (mainly ITP) aged in a way that does not prevent Alecta from fulfilling its • Occupational group life insurance (TGL). mission. Operational risks should be managed in a way that strengthens internal control. Alecta monitors the financial performance of its various prodIt is the responsibility of the Board of Directors to ensure ucts very closely. The allocation of operating expenses among that Alecta has a well balanced risk exposure and good internal the various products is based on specific allocation principles control. The Board has delegated the task of monitoring Alecta’s and allocation keys. The allocation keys are reviewed regularly investment activities to its Finance Committee and the task of to ensure as equitable an allocation as possible. monitoring Alecta’s risks and management’s handling of these In addition to allocating income and expenses equitably risks to its Audit Committee. The CEO is responsible for the among its various products, Alecta also seeks to ensure that day-to-day management of Alecta’s operations, which includes risks are borne in an equitable manner. Alecta’s monitoring of ensuring a high level of internal control. solvency and risk is aimed at ensuring that each product has a capital that is adequate to cover these risks. Insurance risks The Board of Directors defines actuarial guidelines, which Product calculation for Alecta Optimal Pension describe the methods and principles to be used for actuarial Alecta Optimal Pension is a product that was introduced in conassumptions. The CEO determines the basis of actuarial calcunection with the ITP procurement in 2007. The pricing is based lations, which contains more detailed calculation models as well on the principle that fees charged should balance the operating as the assumptions to be applied in the actuarial calculations. expenses over time. For a number of years after its launch, the The Senior Actuary is responsible for the management and expenses incurred for Alecta Optimal Pension exceeded fees monitoring of Alecta’s insurance risks, which involves a responcharged. The deficit was funded through an interest-bearing sibility continuously to adapt actuarial guidelines and the basis capital contribution from Alecta’s defined benefit collective. For of actuarial calculations by submitting proposals for changes. the period 1 October 2018–30 September 2023, the interest rate on the capital contribution was set at Stibor (3-month) plus a fixed risk premium of 0.88 percentage points. ALECTA’S ANNUAL AND SUSTAINABILIT Y REPORT 2019 65 ADMINISTRATION REPORT Financial risks Corporate governance The Board of Directors adopts Alecta’s investment guidelines, Alecta applies the Swedish Corporate Governance Code (the which regulate the portfolio structure, risk limits and other Code) even though it has no formal obligation to do so. Howaspects. The Board is responsible for ensuring compliance with ever, one minor deviation is that the interim report has not been the guidelines. The Board’s Finance Committee adopts guidereviewed by the company’s auditor. A corporate governance lines for Alecta’s day-to-day investment activities, prepares matreport prepared in accordance with the Code is available on ters related to the company’s investment management activipages 46–55. ties that will be addressed by the Board and makes decisions on investment-related matters which fall outside the remit of Sustainability report the CEO. The CEO is responsible for the investment activities In accordance with Ch. 6 § 1 of the Swedish Insurance Compaunder the mandate set forth in the investment guidelines and nies Annual Accounts Act, Alecta has chosen to present its statother resolutions of the Board and the Finance Committee. Subutory sustainability report separately from its Administration ject to certain restrictions, this mandate has been sub-delegated Report. Alecta’s sustainability report covers the whole Group to the Head of Investment Management, who is responsible for and describes Alecta’s standpoint on key sustainability issues, the management and monitoring of Alecta’s financial risks. including sustainability risks and governance. The sustainability report has been submitted to the auditors together with Other risks the annual report and comprises pages 12–43. For the auditor’s All managers and employees are responsible for ensuring good report on the review of the sustainability report and opinion on internal control in their respective areas of activity, which the statutory sustainability report, refer to page 44. entails a responsibility for managing and controlling risks and their potential consequences. Alecta’s management of the above risk categories is described in greater detail in Note 3 on pages 86–87. Risk management support functions: • The independent central functions Compliance, Risk and Actuary make independent assessments of Alecta’s risks and risk management. They also perform a supporting role in relation to management and other operational functions. • The Data Protection Officer assists in ensuring that Alecta complies with the Data Protection Regulation (GDPR). • The Anti-Money Laundering and Anti-Terrorist Financing Officer is responsible for assessing the risk of Alecta’s products and services being used for such purposes. • The Complaints Officer is tasked with assisting in the management of customer complaints. • Risk & Performance, an Investment Management function which operates independently from Alecta’s business activities, is responsible for daily control of financial risks. • The Internal Audit function independently audits and evaluates the company’s internal control on behalf of the Board. The Internal Audit function, or Compliance, is also the recipient of whistleblower reports. 66 ALECTA’S ANNUAL AND SUSTAINABILIT Y REPORT 2019 ADMINISTRATION REPORT Five-year summary GROUP, SEK MILLION 2019 2018 2017 2016 2015 Profit/loss Premiums written 52,776 48,184 38,514 33,557 34,377 Invoiced premiums 41,081 37,674 32,895 29,919 31,581 Guaranteed refunds 11,695 10,510 5,619 3,638 2,796 Claims incurred –18,148 –21,238 –20,776 –21,907 –20,330 Net return on capital 125,031 –18,043 53,000 37,529 38,965 Profit/loss before tax 97,651 –26,118 57,863 12,320 52,916 Net profit/loss for the year 93,306 –26,839 57,255 13,428 52,234 Financial position Assets under management 1) 964,029 828,572 834,416 774,059 730,511 – of which pension products 925,020 791,297 794,982 735,430 692,150 Technical provisions 570,634 513,149 478,814 466,273 427,877 Collective funding capital 263,282 210,613 255,779 226,484 228,404 Capital base 2) 385,722 308,585 349,663 302,376 294,553 Required solvency margin 2) 23,887 21,536 20,097 19,231 17,668 Key performance indicators Total return for the Group, per cent 3) 14.8 –2.2 6.7 5.2 5.9 – of which shares 32.8 –6.9 12.6 7.2 9.0 – of which debt securities 2.6 0.3 1.0 3.1 1.2 – of which alternative investments 7.6 6.6 12.1 9.2 18.4 Total return, defined contribution insurance, per cent 4) 20.3 –3.5 9.1 5.8 7.9 Total return, defined benefit insurance, per cent 4) 14.1 –2.0 6.5 5.1 5.8 Direct return for the Group, per cent 2.1 2.2 2.4 2.6 2.7 Management expense ratio 5) 0.08 0.08 0.09 0.09 0.10 – of which pension products excluding selection centre costs 0.05 0.05 0.06 0.06 0.06 Investment management expense ratio 6) 0.02 0.02 0.02 0.02 0.03 Collective funding ratio, defined benefit insurance, per cent 148 142 154 149 153 Collective funding ratio, defined contribution insurance, per cent 7) 100 100 100 100 100 Solvency ratio, per cent 169 161 174 166 171 1)  Defined as equity, provisions for life insurance and claims outstanding. 2) Refers to the Parent Company. 3)  Refers to the Group (defined benefit and defined contribution retirement pensions and risk insurance). Calculated for all years in accordance with the recommendations of Insurance Sweden. 4)  Calculated for all years in accordance with the recommendations of Insurance Sweden. 5)  Calculated as operating expenses and claims settlement expenses divided by average assets under management. 6) Calculated as operating expenses for investment management divided by average assets under management. 7) Any surplus/deficit is allocated to the insureds on a monthly basis. The collective funding ratio is therefore nearly always 100 per cent. Alecta has conducted a review of which items and key performance indicators are deemed to be relevant to report in the five-year summary. All indicators and most of the items specified in the general recommendations of the Swedish Financial Supervisory Authority (FFFS 2015:12) are presented. In addition, some additional items and indicators not included in the general recommendations are presented. As Alecta does not apply Solvency II but the transitional provisions for occupational pension funds, Solvency II-related data is not presented in the five-year summary. ALECTA’S ANNUAL AND SUSTAINABILIT Y REPORT 2019 67 ADMINISTRATION REPORT Alternative income statement Group Risk result It can be difficult to obtain an understanding of how the profit The risk result was SEK 1,1 billion (–2.2) and shows how of a life insurance company was achieved. The main reason for closely Alecta’s assumptions on mortality, morbidity and use this is that the changes made to the technical provisions (TP) of insurance options agree with actual outcomes. The result during the year are recognised on a net basis in the income also includes changes in the assumptions for calculating TP. statement items Change in the provision for life insurance and Of the negative mortality result of SEK 6,905 million, new life Change in the provision for claims outstanding. As these figures expectancy assumptions account for SEK 6,671 million. Of the are presented on a net basis, it is not possible to deduce, solely positive morbidity result of SEK 6,787 million, new morbidity on the basis of the income statement, the company’s mortality assumptions account for SEK 3,776 million. A detailed descripresults or its total financial results for assets and liabilities. tion of changes in 2019 is included in the Technical provisions The alternative income statement is intended to give readsection in the Administration Report. Insurance options refer ers a better understanding of the factors behind the reported to the insured’s potential right to transfer the value of his or her results, and has been prepared by allocating the change in insurance, decide when payments should begin or end, and disTPs and other items from the income statement among four continue regular premium payments. sub-results: administration result, risk result, financial result and tax result. For each sub-result, income and expenses are RISK RESULT (SEK MILLION) 2019 2018 matched. Annual mortality result –6,905 –84 The consolidated profit was SEK 93.3 billion (–26.8). Annual morbidity result 6,787 2,535 Insurance options 502 48 ALTERNATIVE INCOME STATEMENT Changes in methods and assumptions (SEK MILLION) 2019 2018 used in calculating TPs 1,460 –4,716 Administration result 54 14 Other –710 63 Risk result 1,134 –2,154 Total risk result 1,134 –2,154 Financial result 96,392 –23,982 Tax result –4,274 –717 Financial result Net profit/loss for the year 93,306 –26,839 The financial result was SEK 96.4 billion (–24.0). The financial result is largely dependent on the performance of financial marAdministration result kets, and normally accounts for most of the net profit for the The administration result was SEK 54 million (14) and repreyear. A longer description of Alecta’s return on capital is given in sents the difference between Alecta’s income and operating the Capital return section of the Administration Report. expenses (excluding investment management expenses, which The financial result is also affected by the cumulative return are presented in the financial result). TPs include a provision on TPs, changes to the discount rate, and by actual operating for future operating expenses for the company’s current insurexpenses in investment management. Finally, the financial ance portfolio. The provision for operating expenses is reversed result is affected by the profit arising when the discount rate on an ongoing basis and constitutes, together with operatused to value the insurance obligation exceeds the contractual ing expenses charged to premiums written, Alecta’s income premium interest rate. This profit is recognised in the item (released operating expenses). Other profit sources and is essential to Alecta’s ability to disOther income, which mainly comprises administrative fees tribute substantial refunds to the insureds and the policy holdfrom PRI Pensionsgaranti, is presented separately in the alterers over the long term. The increase compared with the precednative income statement. In Note 8 Operating expenses, other ing year is mainly due to positive returns for the year. Refer to income has instead been deducted from operating expenses. the Technical provisions section in the Administration Report. ADMINISTRATION RESULT (SEK MILLION) 2019 2018 Income 841 783 of which released operating expenses 788 729 of which other income 53 54 Expenses –787 –769 Total administration result 54 14 68 ALECTA’S ANNUAL AND SUSTAINABILIT Y REPORT 2019 ADMINISTRATION REPORT FINANCIAL RESULT (SEK MILLION) 2019 2018 Result, return on capital 125,008 –18,604 of which investment management expenses –194 –163 Released operating expenses for investment management 62 152 Cumulative return on TPs –15,241 –14,906 Other profit sources 1) 15,100 17,270 Changes in TPs as a result of changed market interest rates –28,537 –8,434 Total financial result 1) 96,392 –23,982 1)  omparative figures for 2018 have been adjusted due to a change in the method for calculating C Result, yield tax. As of 2019, Yield tax before tax credit has been used. Tax result The tax result amounted to SEK –4.3 billion (–0.7). TPs include a provision for future yield tax for guaranteed benefits. The result for yield tax is thus the income which arises on an ongoing basis as provisions for tax are reversed, less yield tax before tax credits for the year. Income tax is described in the Tax section of the Administration Report. TAX RESULT (SEK MILLION) 2019 2018 Result, yield tax 1) 71 4 Income tax –4,345 –721 Total tax result 1) –4,274 –717 1)  omparative figures for 2018 have been adjusted due to a change in the method for calculating C Result, yield tax. As of 2019, Yield tax before tax credit is used. ALECTA’S ANNUAL AND SUSTAINABILIT Y REPORT 2019 69 Financial Statements Contents Reports Group Income Statement 71 Statement of Comprehensive Income 71 Balance Sheet 72 Statement of Changes in Equity 74 Cash Flow Statement 75 Parent Company Income Statement 76 Statement of Comprehensive Income 76 Performance Analysis 77 Balance Sheet 78 Statement of Changes in Equity 80 Cash Flow Statement 81 Note Note 1 Group and Parent Company accounting principles 82 27 Other loans 106 2 Significant estimates and judgments 85 28 Derivatives 106 3 Risks and risk management 86 29 Financial instruments subject to enforceable master netting 4 Premiums written 88 agreements 107 5 Return on capital, income 88 30  Receivables related to direct insurance operations 108 6 Unrealised gains on investment assets 88 31  Other receivables 108 7 Claims paid 88 32  Accrued interest and rental income 108 8 Operating expenses 89 33  Equity 109 9 Capital return, expenses 89 34  Surplus fund 111 10 Unrealised losses on investment assets 90 35 Proposed appropriation of profits 111 11 Yield tax 90 36  Provision for life insurance 112 12 Tax 90 37  Provision for claims outstanding 113 13 Intangible assets 92 38  Provision for pensions and similar obligations 113 14 Property, plant and equipment 92 39 Other provisions 114 15 Land and buildings 93 40  Liabilities related to direct insurance operations 114 16 Shares and participations in Group companies 95 41  Other liabilities 114 17 Debt securities issued by, and loans to, Group companies 96 42  Other accrued expenses and deferred income 114 18 Investments in associated companies and joint ventures 97 43 Assets and comparable collateral pledged for own liabilities and for obligations reported as provisions 115 19 Classification of financial assets and liabilities 98 44  Other pledged assets and comparable collateral 115 20 Net profit by class of financial assets and liabilities 100 45 Transfers of financial assets 115 21 Maturity analysis of financial liabilities 100 46  Contingent liabilities 115 22 Valuation categories for financial instruments measured at fair value 101 47  Reconciliation of total return table to financial statements 116 22 Disclosures on financial instruments measured 48 Average number of employees, salaries and remuneration 116 at fair value based on Level 3 103 49 Disclosure of auditors’ fees 120 24 Shares and participations 105 50 Leasing 120 25 Bonds and other debt securities 105 51 Related party disclosures 121 26 Loans secured by real estate 106 52 Significant events after the balance sheet date 121 70 ALECTA’S ANNUAL AND SUSTAINABILIT Y REPORT 2019 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Income Statement Group SEK MILLION NOTE 2019 2018 Premiums written 4 52,776 48,184 Invoiced premiums 41,081 37,674 Guaranteed refunds 11,695 10,510 Net return on capital 125,031 –18,043 Return on capital, income 5 28,628 29,275 Unrealised gains on investment assets 6 97,672 1,464 Return on capital, expenses 9 –1,119 –1,026 Unrealised losses on investment assets 10 –150 –47,756 Claims incurred –18,148 –21,237 Claims paid 7 –21,764 –21,009 Change in provision for claims outstanding 3,616 –228 Change in other technical provisions –61,101 –34,107 Provision for life insurance –61,101 –34,107 Operating expenses 8 –591 –575 Depreciation of owner-occupied properties 15 –24 –22 Yield tax 11 –292 –318 Total operating profit/loss 97,651 –26,118 Profit/loss before tax 97,651 –26,118 Income tax 12 –4,345 –721 NET PROFIT/LOSS FOR THE YEAR 93,306 –26,839 Statement of Comprehensive Income Group SEK MILLION 2019 2018 Net profit/loss for the year 93,306 –26,839 Items that can subsequently be reclassified to profit or loss Foreign exchange difference that can subsequently be reclassified to profit or loss 29 150 Other comprehensive income 29 150 COMPREHENSIVE INCOME FOR THE YEAR 93,335 –26,689 Comprehensive income for the year is wholly attributable to the owners of the Parent Company. ALECTA’S ANNUAL AND SUSTAINABILIT Y REPORT 2019 71 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Balance Sheet Group SEK MILLION NOTE 31 DEC 2019 31 DEC 2018 ASSETS Intangible assets 13 207 233 Property, plant and equipment 14 24 20 Deferred tax 12 2,332 5,689 Investment assets Land and buildings Investment properties 15 32,225 30,901 Owner-occupied properties 15 974 933 Investments in associated companies and joint ventures Shares and participations in associated companies and joint ventures 18, 19, 22, 23 36,357 23,870 Loans to associated companies and joint ventures 18, 19 334 1,857 Other financial investment assets Shares and participations 19, 22, 23, 24 454,757 352,238 Bonds and other debt securities 19, 22, 23, 25, 43, 44 416,620 405,487 Loans secured by real estate 19, 22, 26 4,483 2,777 Other loans 19, 22, 23, 27 6,444 3,133 Derivatives 19, 22, 28, 29 12,755 5,841 964,949 827,037 Receivables Receivables related to direct insurance operations 19, 30 2,549 1,726 Current tax 1,073 874 Other receivables 19, 31 8,190 1,046 11,812 3,646 Cash and bank balances 19, 44 3,332 3,392 Prepaid expenses and accrued income Accrued interest and rental income 19, 32 8,982 8,031 Other prepaid expenses and accrued income 86 63 9,068 8,094 TOTAL ASSETS 991,724 848,111 72 ALECTA’S ANNUAL AND SUSTAINABILIT Y REPORT 2019 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Balance Sheet, cont. Group SEK MILLION NOTE 31 DEC 2019 31 DEC 2018 EQUITY AND LIABILITIES EQUITY Translation reserve 33 308 279 Discretionary participation features reserve 33 119,689 94,720 Special indexation funds 33 10,051 10,162 Retained earnings including net profit for the year 33 263,347 210,262 Total equity 393,395 315,423 LIABILITIES Provision for life insurance 36 556,780 495,679 Claims outstanding 37 13,854 17,470 Pensions and similar commitments 38 0 2 Other provisions 39 15 9 Current tax 0 0 Deferred tax 12 1,659 1,639 Liabilities related to direct insurance operations 19, 40 765 732 Derivatives 19, 22, 28, 29 12,375 9,139 Other liabilities 19, 41 7,335 2,999 Other accrued expenses and deferred income 19, 42 5,546 5,019 Total liabilities 598,329 532,688 TOTAL EQUITY AND LIABILITIES 991,724 848,111 ALECTA’S ANNUAL AND SUSTAINABILIT Y REPORT 2019 73 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Statement of Changes in Equity Group Discretionary participation Special Retained earnings Translation features indexation including net profit/ SEK MILLION reserve 1) reserve 1, 2) funds 1) loss for the year 1) Total OPENING EQUITY AT 1 JANUARY 2018 129 89,388 10,298 255,787 355,602 Net profit/loss for the year –26,839 –26,839 Other comprehensive income 150 150 Comprehensive income for the year 150 –26,839 –26,689 Allocated refunds 16,914 –16,914 – Guaranteed refunds –11,588 –1,468 –13,056 Collective risk premium 3) –116 –116 Other changes 6 –20 –304 –318 CLOSING EQUITY AT 31 DECEMBER 2018 279 94,720 10,162 210,262 315,423 OPENING EQUITY AT 1 JANUARY 2019 279 94,720 10,162 210,262 315,423 Net profit/loss for the year 93,306 93,306 Other comprehensive income 29 29 Comprehensive income for the year 29 93,306 93,335 Allocated refunds 37,823 –37,823 – Guaranteed refunds –12,875 –1,663 –14,538 Collective risk premium 3) –121 –121 Other changes 4) 21 10 –735 –704 CLOSING EQUITY AT 31 DECEMBER 2019 308 119,689 10,051 263,347 393,395 1)  See Note 33. 2) Discretionary participation features refer to allocated refunds. See Note 33. 3) Premiums for waiver of premium insurance and collective final payments have been reduced as a result of the increase in employers’ expenses resulting from the rules for coordination and calculation of pensionable salaries introduced by the parties to ITP 2 in 2008. 4) Other changes primarily comprise distributed refunds in conjunction with the transfer of defined contribution insurance. 74 ALECTA’S ANNUAL AND SUSTAINABILIT Y REPORT 2019 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Cash Flow Statement Group SEK MILLION 2019 2018 OPERATING ACTIVITIES Profit/loss for the year before tax 97,651 –26,118 Interest received 2,629 5,138 Interest paid 178 583 Dividends received 13,892 11,969 Adjustment for non-cash items 1) –77,933 43,185 Tax paid –1,491 –894 Cash flow from operating activities before changes in assets and liabilities 34,926 33,863 Change in investment assets –31,011 –32,868 Change in other operating assets –7,977 729 Change in other operating liabilities 7,661 1,923 Cash flow from operating activities 3,599 3,647 INVESTING ACTIVITIES Investments in property, plant and equipment –11 –11 Cash flow from investing activities –11 –11 FINANCING ACTIVITIES Pension supplements/Supplementary amounts –2,843 –2,545 Payment of indexation funds –121 –117 Other changes –699 –321 Cash flow from financing activities –3,663 –2,983 Cash flow for the year –75 653 Cash and cash equivalents at beginning of year 3,392 2,731 Exchange rate differences in cash and cash equivalents 15 8 CASH AND CASH EQUIVALENTS AT END OF YEAR 3,332 3,392 1) Depreciation/Amortisation/Impairment, Notes 13, 14, 15 57 54 Yield tax, Note 11 291 318 Foreign exchange gains, Note 5 –436 –4,074 Capital gains, Note 5 –8,931 –6,518 Capital losses, Note 9 1 1 Unrealised gains, Note 6 –97,672 –1,464 Unrealised losses, Note 10 150 47,756 Interest income, Note 5 –3,579 –4,996 Interest expenses, Note 9 297 294 Dividends, Note 5 –13,904 –11,988 Adjustment of paid-up values, Note 4 –7,223 –6,308 Premium reductions, Note 4 –4,472 –4,202 Change in provision for life insurance, Note 36 61,101 34,107 Change in provision for claims outstanding, Note 37 –3,616 229 Other 3 –24 Total adjustment for non-cash items –77,933 43,185 ALECTA’S ANNUAL AND SUSTAINABILIT Y REPORT 2019 75 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Income Statement Parent Company SEK MILLION NOTE 2019 2018 TECHNICAL ACCOUNT, LIFE INSURANCE BUSINESS Premiums written 4 52,776 48,184 Invoiced premiums 41,081 37,674 Guaranteed refunds 11,695 10,510 Return on capital, income 5 28,457 29,390 Unrealised gains on investment assets 6 97,376 375 Claims incurred –18,148 –21,238 Claims paid 7 –21,764 –21,009 Change in provision for claims outstanding 3,616 –229 Change in other technical provisions –61,101 –34,107 Provision for life insurance –61,101 –34,107 Operating expenses 8 –591 –575 Capital return, expenses 9 –1,573 –1,099 Unrealised losses on investment assets 10 –150 –47,756 Life insurance, total balance on the technical account 97,046 –26,826 NON-TECHNICAL ACCOUNT Life insurance, balance on the technical account 97,046 –26,826 Profit/loss before tax 97,046 –26,826 Tax on profit/loss for the year 12 –4,576 –783 NET PROFIT/LOSS FOR THE YEAR 92,470 –27,609 Statement of Comprehensive Income Parent Company SEK MILLION 2019 2018 Net profit/loss for the year 92,470 –27,609 Other comprehensive income – – COMPREHENSIVE INCOME FOR THE YEAR 92,470 –27,609 76 ALECTA’S ANNUAL AND SUSTAINABILIT Y REPORT 2019 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Performance Analysis Parent Company 2019 DIRECT INSURANCE OF SWEDISH RISKS Other Occupational pension insurance life insurance Occupational disability Defined insurance and Group life and Defined contribution waiver of occupational benefit traditional premium group life SEK MILLION Total insurance insurance insurance insurance LIFE INSURANCE, BALANCE ON THE TECHNICAL ACCOUNT Premiums written 52,776 27,446 18,334 6,784 212 Return on capital, income 28,457 22,249 5,021 1,168 19 Unrealised gains on investment assets 97,376 76,134 17,180 3,996 66 Claims incurred –18,148 –16,823 –756 –425 –144 Claims paid –21,764 –16,823 –756 –4,029 –156 Change in provision for claims outstanding 3,616 0 – 3,604 12 Changes in other technical provisions –61,101 –47,421 –13,680 – – Provision for life insurance –61,101 –47,421 –13,680 – – Operating expenses –591 –333 –63 –180 –15 Capital return, expenses –1,573 –1,236 –271 –65 –1 Unrealised losses on investment assets –150 –117 –27 –6 0 Life insurance, total balance on the technical account 97,046 59,899 25,738 11,272 137 TECHNICAL PROVISIONS Provision for life insurance 556,780 494,677 62,103 – – Claims outstanding 13,854 21 – 13,804 29 Total technical provisions 570,634 494,698 62,103 13,804 29 Surplus fund 293,459 226,770 52,725 13,556 408 Total operating expenses, excluding property management expenses Operating expenses (administrative expenses in the insurance business) –591 –333 –63 –180 –15 Claims management expenses (included in Claims paid) –143 –83 –18 –39 –3 Investment management expenses (included in Return on capital, expenses) –195 –159 –28 –8 0 Total operating expenses, excluding property management expenses –929 –575 –109 –227 –18 ALECTA’S ANNUAL AND SUSTAINABILIT Y REPORT 2019 77 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Balance Sheet Parent Company SEK MILLION NOTE 31 DEC 2019 31 DEC 2018 ASSETS Intangible assets Intangible assets 13 207 233 207 233 Investment assets Land and buildings 15 12,416 12,203 Investments in Group companies, associated companies and joint ventures Shares and participations in Group companies 16 5,673 4,902 Debt securities issued by, and loans to, Group companies 17, 19 10,923 9,066 Shares and participations in associated companies and joint ventures 18, 19, 22, 23 33,449 22,597 Loans to associated companies and joint ventures 18, 19 334 1,857 Other financial investment assets Shares and participations 19, 22, 23, 24 454,208 351,727 Bonds and other debt securities 19, 22, 23, 25, 44, 45 416,620 405,487 Loans secured by real estate 19, 22, 26 4,483 2,777 Other loans 19, 22, 23, 27 6,444 3,133 Derivatives 19, 22, 28, 29 12,755 5,841 957,305 819,590 Receivables Receivables related to direct insurance operations 19, 30 2,549 1,726 Other receivables 19, 31 12,167 8,434 14,716 10,160 Other assets Tangible assets 14 15 14 Cash and bank balances 19, 44 3,280 2,970 3,295 2,984 Prepaid expenses and accrued income Accrued interest and rental income 19, 32 8,990 8,031 Other prepaid expenses and accrued income 43 34 9,033 8,065 TOTAL ASSETS 984,556 841,032 78 ALECTA’S ANNUAL AND SUSTAINABILIT Y REPORT 2019 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Balance Sheet, cont. Parent Company SEK MILLION NOTE 31 DEC 2019 31 DEC 2018 EQUITY, PROVISIONS AND LIABILITIES Equity Surplus fund 34 293,459 336,427 Net profit/loss for the year 92,470 –27,609 385,929 308,818 Technical provisions Provision for life insurance 36 556,780 495,679 Claims outstanding 37 13,854 17,470 570,634 513,149 Other provisions Pensions and similar commitments 38 0 2 Taxes 0 0 Other provisions 39 4 3 4 5 Liabilities Liabilities related to direct insurance operations 19, 40 765 732 Derivatives 19, 22, 28, 29 12,375 9,139 Other liabilities 19, 41 9,610 4,440 22,750 14,311 Accrued expenses and deferred income Other accrued expenses and deferred income 19, 42 5,239 4,749 5,239 4,749 TOTAL EQUITY, PROVISIONS AND LIABILITIES 984,556 841,032 ALECTA’S ANNUAL AND SUSTAINABILIT Y REPORT 2019 79 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Statement of Changes in Equity Parent Company FUNDING RESERVE 1) Discretionary participation Collective features Other Net profit/loss SEK MILLION consolidation reserve 2) reserves for the year Total OPENING EQUITY AT 1 JANUARY 2018 194,892 89,389 10,299 55,341 349,921 Net profit/loss for the year –27,609 –27,609 Other comprehensive income – Comprehensive income for the year –27,609 –27,609 Appropriation of profits from previous years 55,341 –55,341 – Allocated refunds –16,914 16,914 – Guaranteed refunds –1,468 –11,588 –13,056 Collective risk premium 3) –116 –116 Other changes –306 5 –21 –322 CLOSING EQUITY AT 31 DECEMBER 2018 231,545 94,720 10,162 –27,609 308,818 OPENING EQUITY AT 1 JANUARY 2019 231,545 94,720 10,162 –27,609 308,818 Net profit/loss for the year 92,470 92,470 Other comprehensive income – Comprehensive income for the year 92,470 92,470 Appropriation of profits from previous years –27,609 27,609 – Allocated refunds –37,823 37,823 – Guaranteed refunds –1,663 –12,875 –14,538 Collective risk premium 3) –121 –121 Other changes 4) –732 22 10 –700 CLOSING EQUITY AT 31 DECEMBER 2019 163,718 119,690 10,051 92,470 385,929 1)  See Note 34. 2)  Discretionary participation features refer to allocated refunds. See Note 34. 3) Premiums for waiver of premium insurance and collective final payments have been reduced as a result of the increase in employers’ expenses resulting from the rules for coordination and calculation of pensionable salaries introduced by the parties to ITP 2 in 2008. 4) Other changes primarily comprise distributed refunds in conjunction with the transfer of defined contribution insurance. 80 ALECTA’S ANNUAL AND SUSTAINABILIT Y REPORT 2019 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Cash Flow Statement Parent Company SEK MILLION 2019 2018 OPERATING ACTIVITIES Profit/loss for the year before tax and appropriations 97,046 –26,826 Interest received 2,750 5,250 Interest paid 180 583 Dividends received 14,615 11,719 Adjustment for non-cash items 1) –78,185 43,154 Tax paid –1,430 –870 Cash flow from operating activities before changes in assets and liabilities 34,976 33,010 Change in investment assets –31,752 –32,251 Change in other operating assets –7,699 616 Change in other operating liabilities 8,454 1,942 Cash flow from operating activities 3,979 3,317 INVESTING ACTIVITIES Investments in property, plant and equipment –6 –8 Cash flow from investing activities –6 –8 FINANCING ACTIVITIES Pension supplements/Supplementary amounts –2,843 –2,545 Payment of indexation funds –121 –117 Other changes –699 –321 Cash flow from financing activities –3,663 –2,983 Cash flow for the year 310 326 Cash and cash equivalents at beginning of year 2,970 2,644 CASH AND CASH EQUIVALENTS AT END OF YEAR 3,280 2,970 1) Depreciation/Amortisation/Impairment, Notes 13, 14 30 29 Foreign exchange gains, Note 5 –436 –4,074 Capital gains, Note 5 –8,899 –6,518 Capital losses, Note 9 1 1 Unrealised gains, Note 6 –97,376 –375 Unrealised losses, Note 10 150 47,756 Impairment of shares in Group companies, Note 9 821 371 Reversal of impairment of shares in Group companies, Note 5 –113 –393 Interest income, Note 5 –3,708 –5,108 Interest expenses, Note 9 296 294 Dividends, Note 5 –14,738 –12,654 Adjustment of paid-up values, Note 4 –7,223 –6,308 Premium reductions, Note 4 –4,472 –4,202 Change in provision for life insurance, Note 36 61,101 34,107 Change in provision for claims outstanding, Note 37 –3,616 229 Other –3 –1 Total adjustment for non-cash items –78,185 43,154 ALECTA’S ANNUAL AND SUSTAINABILIT Y REPORT 2019 81 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Notes NOTE 1 Group and Parent Company accounting principles This Annual and sustainability report for Alecta Pensionsförsäkring, ömsesidigt, for the acquisition of participations in entities as well as for the direct acquisiCorporate Identity Number 502014-6865, with registered office tion of assets and assumption of liabilities of entities. Under this method, an in Stockholm, cover the financial year 2019. The company’s postal address acquisition of participations in an entity is regarded as a transaction in which is SE-103 73 Stockholm. The visiting address of the head office is Regeringsthe Group indirectly acquires the subsidiary’s assets and contingent assets gatan 107. and assumes its liabilities and contingent liabilities. The consolidated cost is The Annual and sustainability report was approved for publication by the determined through a purchase price allocation (PPA) in conjunction with the Board of Directors on 19 March 2020 and will be presented to the acquisition. In the PPA, the cost of the participations or assets and liabilities, Council of Administration for adoption on 23 April 2020. and the fair value of acquired identifiable assets and assumed liabilities and The amounts indicated in the notes refer to millions of Swedish kronor (MSEK) contingent liabilities are determined. unless otherwise stated. Figures in parentheses refer to the previous year. When an entity is acquired an assessment is made of whether the acquisition should be classified as a business or an asset. If a property is acquired through Presentation the acquisition of a company, the acquisition is treated as if the property had General accounting principles and new accounting rules are described in been purchased directly. This type of company normally has no employees Note 1 below. Other accounting principles are described in the relevant Note in and no organisation, or any operations other than those directly linked to the order to enhance the reader’s understanding of each area of accounting. holding of the property. The cost comprises the fair value of the assets and any associated loans. Deferred tax is not recognised as a liability on premiums atBasis of preparation of financial statements tributable to the acquisition. Any deductions related to deferred tax received in The consolidated financial statements have been prepared in accordance with addition to reported tax in the acquired entity are recognised as a reduction of the International Financial Reporting Standards (IFRS) and IFRIC interpretathe fair value of the acquired property, both on acquisition and in the subsetions, as adopted by the EU, with the exception of IFRS 8 Operating Segments, quent financial statements. and IAS 33 Earnings per share, which is not required by companies whose If the acquired assets and assumed liabilities belong to an entity which also shares are not publicly traded. In preparing the financial statements, the engaged in business activities through employees, Alecta will define the acquisiSwedish Insurance Companies Annual Accounts Act, the Regulations and tion as a business combination. Business combinations are accounted for in General Guidelines on the Annual Accounts of Insurance Companies (FFFS accordance with IFRS 3, which means, for example, that acquisition costs are 2015:12) of the Swedish Financial Supervisory Authority and Recommendation expensed directly and that deferred tax is recognised as the difference between RFR 1 Supplementary Accounting Rules for Corporate Groups of the Swedish the market value of the acquired assets and their tax residual value. Financial Reporting Board have also been applied. For each acquisition, Alecta determines whether the acquisition should be classified as a business or an asset. As at 31 December 2019, all of Alecta’s Consolidated financial statements acquisitions have been classified as asset acquisitions. The consolidated financial statements comprise the Parent Company, Alecta Pensionsförsäkring, ömsesidigt, and those subsidiaries in which the Parent Translation of foreign currency Company directly or indirectly owns more than half of the voting rights for all The Parent Company’s functional currency is the Swedish krona and the shares and participations or otherwise has control. Control means that Alecta financial statements are presented in Swedish kronor. has the ability to govern the company, is exposed to or has the right to returns The balance sheets of foreign subsidiaries are translated at the closing rates that may vary and is able to govern those activities of the company which affect at the balance sheet date, while income statements of foreign subsidiaries are the returns. Disclosures on shares and participations in Group companies are translated at the average exchange rate for the year. Translation differences provided in Note 16. Profits or losses from the operations of subsidiaries that arising on translation are recognised in Other comprehensive income and are were acquired or sold during the year are included in the consolidated financial transferred to the Group’s translation reserve. statements from the acquisition date until the date when the Parent Company Monetary assets and liabilities in foreign currency have been translated ceases to have control. All intercompany transactions, balance sheet items, into Swedish kronor at the closing rates at the balance sheet date. Realised income and expenses are fully eliminated on consolidation. Untaxed reserves in and unrealised changes in value resulting from changes in exchange rates are legal entities are eliminated in the consolidated financial statements and recognised on a net basis in the income statement in Capital return, income or allocated to equity and deferred tax. Capital return, expenses. Basis of measurement Insurance contracts The basis of measurement applied in preparing the consolidated financial stateAs an insurer, Alecta provides a range of insurance products. Alecta distinments is historical cost, except for derivatives, and assets and liabilities classiguishes between pension products and disability and life insurance products. fied to the category financial assets and financial liabilities at fair value through Disability and life insurance products comprise risk insurance policies, for which profit or loss. The breakdown by category is described in Note 19. the premium is determined for periods of one year at a time. These insurance Technical provisions are calculated at present value and these calculations policies do not include a savings component. For pension products, the penare based on prudent actuarial assumptions on interest rates, mortality, sion entitlement is earned during the premium payment period. For accountmorbidity, operating expenses and other variables. ing and actuarial purposes, all of Alecta’s products are classified as insurance The preparation of financial statements in compliance with IFRS requires contracts. The defining feature of an insurance contract is the existence of a the use of critical accounting estimates. Management is also required to make significant insurance risk of some kind. certain judgements in applying the Group’s accounting principles. Areas which involve a high degree of judgement, are complex or where assumptions and Allocation of surplus and deficit funds estimates have a material impact on the consolidated financial statements are As regards Alecta Optimal Pension, which is a defined contribution product, described in Note 2. surpluses and deficits are allocated to the insureds on a monthly basis. An allocated surplus is disbursed in the form of a supplement to the guaranteed Asset acquisitions and business combinations pension (“supplementary amount”). The surplus is not guaranteed but is part In preparing the financial statements, the purchase method has been applied of Alecta’s risk capital. The size of the surplus or deficit depends on changes 82 ALECTA’S ANNUAL AND SUSTAINABILIT Y REPORT 2019 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS NOTE 1 Group and Parent Company accounting principles, cont. in the pension capital, which in turn reflects actual outcomes for returns, tax, qualifies for the temporary exemption and will postpone the application of mortality and operating expenses in the relevant defined contribution insurIFRS 9 until 1 January 2022. Alecta’s assessment that its activities are mainly ance collective. The Company allocates surpluses and deficits by calculating insurance-related is based on the definition in IFRS 4 of the fact that the porthe refund rate on a monthly basis in arrears, which means that the collective tion of insurance-related liabilities relating to insurance contracts covered by funding ratio normally remains close to 100 per cent. The surplus is recognised IFRS 4 exceeds the threshold of 90 per cent of the company’s total liabilities for in equity in the balance sheet. the financial year ending on 31 December 2015. Accordingly, Alecta will only A surplus or deficit arising in other products is transferred to Alecta’s provide those disclosures related to effects of IFRS 9 that are required under funding reserve. The primary function of the funding reserve is to safeguard IFRS 4 to facilitate comparison with companies that apply IFRS 9. Refer to Note Alecta’s ability to meet its insurance commitments. In the second hand, it is 3 Risks and risk management, Note 16 Shares and participations in Group comused for distribution of surpluses to policy holders and insureds. A surplus that panies, Note 18 Investments in associated companies and joint ventures, Note is distributed to policy holders and the insureds can take the form of a pension 19 Classification of financial assets and liabilities, and Note 26 Loans secured by supplement for pensions in payment, an increase in earned pension entitlereal estate. ments, a reduction of insurance premiums, cash payments and allocations to policy holders in the form of client company funds. Pension supplements, preClassification and measurement mium reductions and client company funds become guaranteed in conjunction Under IFRS 9, all recognised financial assets covered by IAS 39 Financial Instruwith disbursement, deposit and use, respectively, and in connection therewith ments should be measured at either amortised cost or fair value through other capital is transferred from the funding reserve. An increase in vested pension comprehensive income or at fair value through profit or loss. The classification entitlements becomes guaranteed in conjunction with its allocation to the into the three categories should be based on the company’s business model insurance policies and results in a technical provision. for the various holdings and the characteristics of the cash flows generated by the assets. Changes in accounting principles Alecta’s assessment is that the new standard will not result in any material New and changed IASB accounting standards applied from 1 January change in the classification and measurement of Alecta’s financial assets and 2019: liabilities. All financial instruments with the exception of loans to associated companies and joint ventures, and loans secured by real estate are currently IFRS 16 Leases measured in the fair value through profit or loss category. The loans are meaA new IFRS standard became effective on 1 January 2019, IFRS 16 Leases. sured at amortised cost and account for a small portion of Alecta’s investment IFRS 16 supersedes IAS 17 Leases and IFRIC 4 Determining whether an arrangeassets. ment contains a lease. For the lessee, IFRS 16 means that the classification of leases as either operating or finance leases has been eliminated and replaced Impairment (Recognition of expected credit losses) by a model in which the assets and liabilities for all leases must be recognised in Alecta applies IAS 39 due to the temporary exemption from applying IFRS 9 the balance sheet, unless the remaining lease term is shorter than 12 months, and therefore only provides additional information to enable comparison with and/or the underlying asset has a low value. The right to use the leased asset companies that apply IFRS 9. is recognised as an asset and the present value of the leases is recognised as Under IFRS 9, provisions for credit losses should be recognised for loans and a corresponding liability in the balance sheet. In the capacity of lessee, Alecta receivables which are measured at amortised cost or fair value through other conducted a detailed review and analysis of the Group’s leases, whereby leasecomprehensive income. The provisions should be based on expected future hold agreements were identified as the single most material leases. credit losses and probability-weighted outcomes. Alecta has chosen to apply the simplified transition approach, with the When assessing provisioning requirements for expected credit losses, Alecta cumulative effect of an initial application of the standard on the first date of apuses a three-stage approach. Stage 1 pertains to assets for which the credit risk plication, 1 January 2019. Comparative figures for 2018 have not been restated has not increased significantly since initial recognition, with recognition of a in accordance with the simplified approach. The right-of-use assets have been 12-month ECL that is associated with the risk of default in the next 12 months. measured at an amount equal to their lease liability on the transition date. Stage 2 pertains to assets for which the credit risk has increased significantly On 1 January 2019, the change related to leasehold agreements had an imsince initial recognition, with no underperformance since initial recognition. In pact of SEK 29 million on total assets under the items of investment assets as order to determine whether there has been a significant increase in credit risk, well as other liabilities, with no impact on equity. Due to the transition to IFRS the probability of a default at the reporting date is compared with the prob16, the cost of land lease payments and leaseholds in their entirety has been ability of a default at the date of initial recognition. Stage 3 pertains to credit recognised as a financial expense, in contrast to the previous policy, where impaired assets and these are assessed individually. For Stages 2 and 3, a provithese costs were recognised as an operating expense and deducted from sion for expected credit loss is based on the residual life of the asset. When operating profit. At 31 December, the aggregated value of the site and land calculating the provision for credit losses under IFRS 9, Alecta takes historical leaseholds was an estimated SEK 34 million, see Note 15 Land and buildings, credit loss experience and various forward-looking scenarios into account. The and Note 50 Leases. assessment is that adoption of the standard would not have any significant effect on Alecta’s financial statements. New and changed IASB accounting standards to be applied from 1 January 2020 or later: Hedge accounting Only those standards that are expected to have an impact on Alecta are As Alecta does not apply hedge accounting, this part of the standard will not described. have any impact on the financial statements. IFRS 9 Financial Instruments IFRS 17 Insurance Contracts (Not adopted by the EU) IFRS 9 Financial Instruments includes new bases for the classification and meaOn 18 May 2017, the IFRS 17 standard for insurance contracts was published. surement of financial instruments, a forward-looking impairment model and The standard affects all companies with insurance contracts that report in simplified criteria for hedge accounting. IFRS 9 is effective from 1 January 2018. accordance with IFRS. The standard will become effective on 1 January 2022 if Alecta conducts insurance-related activities and believes it therefore it is approved by the EU. ALECTA’S ANNUAL AND SUSTAINABILIT Y REPORT 2019 83 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS NOTE 1 Group and Parent Company accounting principles, cont. IFRS 17 brings extensive changes in relation to the measurement of insurance is based on observable market data. The fair values of financial assets that are contracts, the presentation of line items in the income statement and revenue not traded in an active market are determined with the help of established recognition. In addition, the profit margins of insurance contracts must be valuation techniques. Note 22 provides fair value disclosures for each class of accrued over the terms of the contracts. Those parts of the standard to be financial instrument in a table format, based on a hierarchy with three levels of applied by unlisted insurance companies in Sweden is not clear. The Swedish fair value. Financial Supervisory Authority is investigating whether and how IFRS 17 should be implemented in legal entities and consolidated accounts in Sweden. Cash and cash equivalents A project is taking place in Alecta to analyse the effects of adopting the Cash and cash equivalents constitute a financial asset and are classified in the standard. The assessment is that the adoption of IFRS 17 will have a major loans and receivables category. Cash and cash equivalents are termed cash and impact on Alecta’s financial statements. bank balances in the Group as well as the Parent Company. Capital return Technical provisions Capital return includes net operating income from investment properties, Technical provisions comprise the net present value of the company’s guaraninterest income, interest expenses, dividends on shares and participations, teed commitments for insurance contracts in force and consist of the provision foreign exchange gains and losses, capital gains and losses, and unrealised for life insurance and the provision for claims outstanding. These provisions changes in value on investment assets less operating expenses for investment are calculated according to generally accepted actuarial principles. This means management. Capital gains and losses are recognised on a net basis for each that the provisions are measured at present value and that the calculations are asset class in Capital return, income and Capital return, expenses, respectively. based on prudent actuarial assumptions on interest rates, mortality, morbidity, Unrealised gains and losses are also recognised on a net basis for each asset operating expenses and other variables. Technical provisions also include penclass. Unrealised gains and losses comprise the change for the year in the sion commitments to Alecta’s employees in accordance with the FTP plan. difference between cost and fair value. When an asset is sold the accumulated unrealised changes in value are reversed as unrealised gain or loss. Changes in Pensions in the Alecta Group value for the year, both realised and unrealised, are recognised through profit All pension plans in the Group are accounted for as defined contribution plans. or loss in the period in which they arise. Capital return is presented in Notes 5, This means that contributions are recognised as an expense in the period in 6, 9 and 10. which the benefits are earned, which in most cases is the same as when the contribution is paid. Investment assets General information Cash flows Investment assets consist of the balance sheet items Land and buildings, Cash flows are recognised according to the indirect method. Alecta recognises Investments in Group companies, associated companies and joint ventures, cash flows from operating activities, investing activities and financing activities as well as Other financial investment assets. by applying the necessary adjustments for the insurance business. As cash flows in the insurance business are mostly invested, investment assets are Reporting of business events accounted for as an integral part of operating activities. Financing activities in Financial assets at fair value are recognised at fair value after the acquisition Alecta refer to payments that flow directly to/from equity. Bank balances are date. The cost of investment assets excludes transaction costs related to recognised as cash and cash equivalents, i.e. the same as the Cash and bank financial instruments. Purchases and sales of financial assets are recognised in balances item in the balance sheet. Short-term investments are not included the balance sheet on the transaction date. Transactions which have not been in cash and cash equivalents but are recognised as investment assets. Interest settled at the balance sheet date are recognised as a receivable from or liability received or paid and dividends received are recognised as cash flow from to the counterparty in Other receivables or Other liabilities. Purchases and operating activities. sales of land and buildings are recognised in the balance sheet on the completion date. Parent Company accounting policies The Parent Company applies IFRS with certain limitations contained in Swedish Transaction costs statutes, which means that international financial reporting standards are Transaction costs which are directly attributable to purchases and sales of applied to the extent possible under Swedish accounting legislation. The Parent financial investment assets are recognised through profit or loss and included Company’s financial reporting follows the Swedish Insurance Companies Annual in net capital gain or loss in the items Capital return, income or Capital return, Accounts Act (ÅRFL), the Regulations and General Guidelines on the Annual expenses. Transaction costs attributable to purchases and sales of land and Accounts of Insurance Companies (FFFS 2015:12) of the Swedish Financial buildings and assets measured at amortised cost are accounted for as an Supervisory Authority and Recommendation RFR 2 Accounting for Legal increase in cost or a decrease in capital gain or loss, respectively. Entities of the Swedish Financial Reporting Board. In the Parent Company, the For acquisitions of companies classified as a business combination, the mandatory formats for income statements and balance sheets provided for in transaction costs are recognised through profit or loss and included in the item the Swedish Insurance Companies Annual Accounts Act are applied whereas Capital return, expenses. IAS/IFRS formats are used in the consolidated financial statements. As the Group complies with IAS/IFRS standards, as adopted by the EU, the accounting Other financial investment assets treatment for certain income statement and balance sheet items in the Parent Alecta identifies and classifies its financial investment assets as financial assets Company differs from the accounting treatment applied in the Group. The at fair value through profit or loss on initial recognition. Derivatives are also acmost significant differences are described below. counted for in the financial assets at fair value through profit or loss category, as they are considered, by definition, to be held for trade. This classification is Land and buildings/other liabilities based on the fact that Alecta manages and measures all investment assets at In the Parent Company, investment properties and owner-occupied properfair value. One exception is a small loan portfolio, which has been recognised at ties are recognised at fair value. In the Group, owner-occupied properties are amortised cost. The measurement of financial assets traded in an active market recognised at cost less accumulated depreciation. 84 ALECTA’S ANNUAL AND SUSTAINABILIT Y REPORT 2019 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS NOTE 1 Group and Parent Company accounting principles, cont. The Parent Company recognises leases in accordance with RFR 2 and does Appropriations, untaxed reserves not therefore apply the new IFRS 16 standard, which the Group does. Swedish tax legislation allows companies to reduce their taxable income for the year by transferring funds to untaxed reserves in the balance sheet through the Shares and participations in Group companies income statement item Appropriations. Shares and participations in Group companies are recognised at cost in the Due to the relationship between accounting and taxation, the deferred tax Parent Company but are eliminated in the consolidated financial statements. liability attributable to untaxed reserves is not accounted for separately in the Parent Company. Debt securities issued by, and loans to, Group companies Intercompany loans and receivables are recognised at cost in the Parent Yield tax Company, but are eliminated in the consolidated financial statements. In the Parent Company income statement, yield tax is recognised together with income tax in the Tax on profit for the year item. In the consolidated financial Surplus fund statements, yield tax is included in operating profit. Life insurance companies which do not have the right to distribute profits are required to maintain a surplus fund to which funds are allocated that can be Business combinations used to cover losses. The funding reserve is part of equity in the Parent ComOn the acquisition of a real estate company, all acquisition costs are accounted pany and consists of collective funding, the discretionary participation features for as an increase in the cost of shares and participations in the Parent reserve and other reserves. This differs from the composition of equity in the Company. Group. NOTE 2 Significant estimates and judgements The preparation of financial statements and application of different accounting Technical provisions standards are often based on estimates and judgements made by management The calculation of technical provisions requires qualified judgements as well as and the Board of Directors. These estimates and judgements are in most cases assumptions on mortality, morbidity, interest rates, expenses, tax and other based on historical experience but may also be based on other factors, includvariables. The valuation of technical provisions and information on current ing expectations of future events. Management evaluates these estimates assumptions and changes introduced during the year are described in the acand judgements on a continuous basis. Actual outcomes may differ from the counting principles in Notes 36 and 37. The sensitivity of the assumptions used estimates and judgements applied. as a basis for the valuation of the technical provisions is described in Note 3. Those estimates and judgements which Alecta deems to have the biggest impact on earnings and/or on assets and liabilities are presented below or in Financial instruments the notes indicated in the table. The measurement of financial instruments at fair value is based primarily on quoted prices in active markets. For holdings for which quoted prices Significant estimates and judgements Note in an active market are not available, valuation techniques are used. These are Provision for life insurance, described in Note 22. The measurement of financial instruments is described Technical provisions 36, 37 Provision for claims outstanding in the accounting principles in the relevant note. A sensitivity analysis is shown Valuation categories for financial in Note 3. Financial instruments 22 instruments measured at fair value Investment properties 15 Land and buildings Intangible assets 13 Intangible assets Income tax 12 Tax Deferred tax 12 Tax ALECTA’S ANNUAL AND SUSTAINABILIT Y REPORT 2019 85 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS NOTE 3 Risks and risk management A general description of Alecta’s risk management and risk organisation is on an ongoing basis to ensure that they are in line with the levels assumed in provided on page 65 of the Administration Report. In this note Alecta’s various the calculations. risk categories are described in greater detail. Interest rate risk Risk of loss Interest rate risk arises from the assumptions on future returns used as a basis This risk category refers to the risk of consequences in the form of loss of for calculating premiums and benefits and calculation of technical provisions. reputation or financial loss, for example. Such consequences may result from a Technical provisions are valued mainly on the basis of the yield curve defined failure to manage risks in the risk categories described below. in the regulations of the Swedish Financial Supervisory Authority. In the annual report the yield curve is expressed as a cash flow-weighted average interest Insurance risks rate. The impact of the interest rate on Alecta’s results and solvency ratio is Insurance risks are risks associated with Alecta’s insurance products and insurdescribed in the sensitivity analysis on page 87. A further description of the ance portfolio, and relate to factors such as pricing, the calculation of technical management of the total interest rate risk for assets and liabilities is provided provisions, and the calculation and allocation of surplus funds. These calculaunder Matching risk on the next page. tions are based on actuarial assumptions, primarily assumptions on mortality, morbidity, operating expenses and interest rates, each of which constitutes a Financial risks risk. Financial risks exist in the investment activities and comprise market, credit To determine the reliability of the actuarial assumptions used, Alecta’s and liquidity risks, matching risk and solvency risk. The goal for the investment reported earnings are analysed from an actuarial perspective each year. This activities is to generate a sustainable positive inflation-adjusted return, i.e. a is done by comparing actual outcomes for mortality, morbidity, operating return which consistently exceeds both inflation and the growth of Alecta’s expenses and capital return with the assumptions used. The assumptions are insurance commitments. In 2019, the central function Risk assessed the value revised when the analysis shows this to be necessary. Changes to assumptions of Alecta’s investment assets. Some aspects of risk management in Alecta’s can lead to a change in technical provisions and/or the determination of premiinvestment management activities were also reviewed. ums. As Alecta’s insurance collectives are large and diversified, concentration risks are negligible. Market risk Market risk is the risk that the value of Alecta’s investments will be negatively Mortality risk affected by changes in interest rates, exchange rates or the prices of shares, Mortality risk is the risk that the average life expectancy of the insureds will bonds or alternative investments. To limit market risk and avoid concentrations differ from what has been assumed. The risk varies depending on whether the in the portfolio, Alecta spreads its investments across different asset classes insurance offers a death benefit or life benefit. In a death benefit insurance and markets. policy the insurance amount is paid out when the insured dies. Alecta’s family Asset allocation Exposure Share of portfolio pension, family cover and TGL (occupational group life insurance) products Asset class 2019 2018 2019 2018 are death benefit policies. In a life benefit insurance policy the insurance Shares 410,861 322,577 42.7 % 39.2 % amount is paid out when the insured reaches the age specified in the contract. Debt securities 451,424 419,781 46.9 % 50.9 % Retirement pension is a life benefit insurance policy. Retirement pension with Alternative investments 1) 100,392 81,574 10.4 % 9.9 % repayment cover is an example of a combined death benefit and life benefit insurance policy. Total 962,678 823,932 100.0 % 100.0 % A reduction in mortality means that the insureds live longer than the 1) Alternative investments include real estate. Company had assumed. A life benefit insurance policy is negatively affected by reduced mortality, as the costs for the policy increase because the pensions The table shows Alecta’s asset allocation based on the classification in the total have to be paid out over a longer period than originally assumed. The opposite return table, see page 58. A detailed breakdown by asset class is presented in applies to death benefit insurance. the diagrams on page 59. Under the mortality assumptions used, a man or a woman born in the 1950s To ensure that Alecta is able to meet its solvency requirements by a comis expected to live for a further 22.8 (22.2) and 23.9 (23.9) years, respectively, fortable margin even in adverse market conditions, the investment policy esafter their 65th birthday. The increase in life expectancy for individuals born tablishes limits for risk levels. Various derivatives, such as interest rate futures, thereafter is assumed to be approximately 0.7 (0.8) years for each subsequent equity futures, forward exchange contracts and interest rate and currency birth decade. swaps, are used to reduce the risks in the event of major price fluctuations, A 20 per cent decrease in assumed mortality means that the life expectancy and to increase the cost-effectiveness of Alecta’s asset management activities. of people aged 65 today will increase by 1.5 (1.6) years and that Alecta’s life Alecta also hedges its entire holdings of foreign bonds, and some of its foreign insurance provision will increase by approximately 5 (5) per cent. shares and alternative investments. Alecta’s total currency exposure after hedging was equal to 15.7 per cent (11.0) of the investments at year-end. Without Morbidity risk currency hedging, 46.8 per cent (43.3) of Alecta’s assets would have been Morbidity risk is the risk that the insured will remain ill for a longer period or at exposed to exchange rate fluctuations. a higher level of compensation than originally assumed. Alecta’s morbidity risk is included in its disability and waiver of premium insurance products. When an Currency exposure after Share of insured falls ill, a technical provision is made based on specific assumptions on hedging Exposure investment portfolio the future degree of incapacity to work and the duration of the illness. 2019 2018 2019 2018 If the probability of recovery decreases by 20 per cent at each future date DKK 15,218 12,320 1.6 % 1.5 % while the level of working capacity decreases by 20 per cent, the technical EUR –32,234 –28,857 –3.3 % –3.5 % provisions for disability pension and waiver of premium would increase by apCHF 11,212 –34 1.2 % 0.0 % proximately 30 (20) per cent. GBP 15,812 9,140 1.6 % 1.1 % USD 74,561 37,834 7.7 % 4.6 % Operating expenses risk Other currencies 2,301 2,257 0.2 % 0.3 % The operating expenses risk consists in the possibility that Alecta’s operating Net exposure 151,339 90,443 15.7 % 11.0 % expenses will be higher than was assumed. Alecta monitors operating expenses Summation is in absolute terms, which means that a negative position in one currency cannot cancel a positive exposure in another currency. 86 ALECTA’S ANNUAL AND SUSTAINABILIT Y REPORT 2019 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS NOTE 3 Risks and risk management, cont. Credit risk Solvency risk Credit risk is the risk of financial losses due to the insolvency of an issuer or Solvency risk is the risk that Alecta will be considered to have insufficient risk counterparty. Alecta analyses the credit risks associated with different types of capital to ensure that it is able to meet its guaranteed commitments. The investment and establishes credit limits for issuers and counterparties. Limits Swedish Financial Supervisory Authority measures solvency risk using its traffic have also been established for single exposures, i.e. limits for Alecta’s total light model. Alecta’s risk capital meets the criteria for “green light” by a wide equity and fixed income exposure to the same corporate group. Risk & Performargin. In addition, Alecta performs its own stress tests on a daily basis. The mance verifies that these limits are not exceeded on a daily basis. Fixed income tests identify significant financial risks and are based on slightly more adverse investments mainly comprise investments in securities issued by borrowers market scenarios than those prescribed in the traffic light model. The stress with very high credit ratings. Investments are made mainly in bonds assigned tests measure risk exposure, and in the event that a limit is reached, action is a rating of BBB– or higher by the Standard & Poor’s, Moodys and Fitch rating taken to safeguard Alecta’s solvency. agencies. In addition to external ratings, all issuers are assessed for credit risk using internal credit rating models. Sensitivity analysis Effect on Solvency ratio (% points) Net profit for year/Equity Bonds and other debt securities Group 2019 2018 2019 2018 Credit exposure Market value including Interest rate decrease 1 % point –4.7 % –11.2 % –9,120 –32,899 forward exposure Share Share price decrease 10 % –7.2 % –6.3 % –41,086 –32,258 2019 2018 2019 2018 Share price decrease 10 % Rating Aaa/AAA 169,958 173,930 37.4 % 42.9 % alternative investments –1.8 % –1.6 % –10,039 –8,157 Rating Aa/AA 142,197 107,371 31.3 % 26.5 % Exchange rate decrease 10 % –2.7 % –1.8 % –15,152 –9,095 Rating A/A 58,358 72,572 12.9 % 17.9 % Rating Baa/BBB 31,632 23,386 7.0 % 5.8 % The table shows how the solvency ratio and net profit for the year would be Rating Ba/BB 7,187 5,564 1.6 % 1.4 % affected by a decrease in the value of shares, alternative investments and curUnrated 44,805 22,928 9.9 % 5.7 % rencies, and by a decrease in market interest rates, regardless of maturity and of which securities issued by market. A decrease in the market rates increases the value of Alecta’s commitstated-owned issuers 3,051 8,018 0.7 % 2.0 % ments by SEK 27.3 billion (48.8) and the value of its fixed income investments Total 454,138 405,751 100 % 100 % by SEK 18.1 million (15.9). Liquidity risk Other risks Liquidity risk is the risk of loss on financial instruments arising from the inability In addition to the aforementioned risks, Alecta needs to manage other risks, to immediately sell an instrument without a reduction in the price or the risk such as compliance risks, sustainability risks and information security risks. An that Alecta will be unable to meet its payment obligations at maturity without important method for mitigating these risks, as well as the above risk categoan increase in the cost of obtaining the necessary funds. Alecta’s payment ries, is to control operational risks, see below. More information on Alecta’s obligations consist of insurance obligations and financial liabilities. Of Alecta’s management of these risks is presented in the Corporate Governance Report total obligations, approximately 93 per cent have a maturity in excess of five on page 46. years, see Notes 36 and 37. Alecta’s financial liabilities are limited to the derivatives used to hedge foreign currency risk and interest rate risk, and usually have Operational risks a maturity of less than one year. Information on the nominal values of Alecta’s Alecta defines operational risk as the risk of operational inadequacies or failderivatives is presented in Note 28. A maturity analysis of financial liabilities ures related to personnel, organisation and processes, IT systems or security. is also presented in Note 21. Liquidity risk is monitored through detailed Such inadequacies or failures can cause risks in other risk categories. For cash flow forecasts and is limited by the fact that a large portion of Alecta’s example, inadequate expertise on the part of Alecta’s personnel could result in investments is invested in highly liquid assets. Note 22 shows that SEK 421.7 the Company unknowingly being exposed to financial risks. Operational risks billion of Alecta’s investments consist of shares in listed companies that can be are counteracted by good internal control. Good internal control is achieved converted into cash within one week. The remaining investments are deemed through a clear division of responsibilities, documented processes and proceto convertible into cash within one year, and the liquidity risk is therefore dures, effective controls and by other means. regarded as negligible. Risk self-assessment Matching risk Using a central self-assessment method, all departments at Alecta identify and Matching risk is the risk of a deterioration in the Company’s financial position assess their risks and controls in various risk categories on an annual basis. due to differing characteristics between assets and technical provisions. Areas of potential improvement are identified and decisions are made on which The value of Alecta’s insurance commitments and fixed income investments risk reduction measures or financially motivated or other measures to take. depends on the level of interest rates. When interest rates fall, Alecta’s comWork on continuous improvement in Alecta’s day-to-day operations also helps mitments increase, as does the value of its fixed income investments. Given to reduce risks. that the commitments are larger and have a longer average maturity than the fixed income investments, a decrease in interest rates has a negative impact. InIncident management formation on the maturities of the commitments as well as fixed-rate terms for Despite the preventive actions that are taken to identify and reduce risks, incithe asset portfolio is provided in Notes 36 and 37, and Note 25, respectively. dents may still occur. Such incidents must of course be addressed immediately To calculate the matching risk, Alecta uses an asset liability management to limit any possible damage and loss. Equally important is to learn from what (ALM) analysis that is aimed at identifying the optimal composition of investhas occurred and to take measures to try and prevent similar incidents from ment assets with regard to Alecta’s insurance commitments. The analysis recurring. Incidents are therefore discussed and reported at all levels of Alecta also takes account of how Alecta’s investment assets and liabilities at market on a regular basis. value, and thus also its risk capital, are affected by price fluctuations in financial markets. Decisions on the composition of investments are based on Alecta’s long-term assessments of market conditions in relation to its obligations, targets and financial position. Decisions are reported on an ongoing basis in the Board’s Finance Committee. ALECTA’S ANNUAL AND SUSTAINABILIT Y REPORT 2019 87 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS NOTE 4 Premiums written NOTE 5 Capital return, income Group and Parent Company 2019 2018 Group Parent Company Current premiums 38,303 35,173 2019 2018 2019 2018 Single premiums 2,875 2,601 Rental income from land and buildings 1,759 1,682 563 643 Premium tax 1) –97 –100 Dividends received 13,904 11,988 14,738 12,654 Invoiced premiums 41,081 37,674 of which Group companies – – 1,045 952 of which associated companies and joint Adjustment of paid-up values 7,223 6,308 ventures 591 – 591 – Premium reduction 4,472 4,202 Interest income, etc. 3,579 4,996 3,708 5,108 Guaranteed refunds 11,695 10,510 bonds and other debt securities 3,229 4,518 3,229 4,518 Total premiums written 52,776 48,184 loans secured by real estate 93 66 93 66 other interest income 257 412 252 410 1) The tax base is 95 per cent (95) of premiums received for TGL. The tax is 45 per cent (45) of the tax base. other interest expenses, Group companies – – 134 114 Reversal of impairment – – 113 393 Accounting principle shares in Group companies – – 113 393 Premiums written can comprise paid-in and credited premiums as well as Net foreign exchange gains 436 4,074 436 4,074 refunds in the form of adjustments of paid-up values and premium reductions. Net capital gains 8,931 6,518 8,899 6,518 Reductions are made for special premium tax (relates to TGL). The accounting land and buildings 549 3 517 3 treatment of premiums written differs depending on whether the premiums reshares and participations 7,138 5,764 7,138 5,764 late to defined contribution or defined benefit insurance. The cash principle is bonds and other debt applied for defined contribution insurance while the charging system is applied securities 1,109 751 1,109 751 for defined benefit insurance when accounting for premiums written. other loans 135 – 135 – Premiums are recognised as income and affect different balance sheet items Other 19 17 – – depending on whether the premium relates to pension insurance or risk insurTotal capital return, income 28,628 29,275 28,457 29,390 ance. For pension insurance, an increase is made in technical provisions on the liabilities side of the balance sheet while risk insurance premiums are allocated through profit or loss to equity. Calculation of premiums Unrealised gains on Premiums are intended to cover Alecta’s commitments to its policy holders. The premium is determined on the basis of actuarial assumptions on interest NOTE 6 investment assets rates, mortality, morbidity and operating expenses. These assumptions are based on experience and observations, and are broken down by insurance Group Parent Company portfolio. Pension insurance can either be defined benefit or defined contribu2019 2018 2019 2018 tion. For defined benefit insurance, the benefits are specified in the insurance Land and buildings 893 1,380 480 291 contract and premiums are determined on the basis of actuarial assumptions. Shares and participations 91,933 – 92,050 – Premiums are determined individually for each insured. For defined contribuBonds and other debt securities 4,846 – 4,846 – tion insurance, the premium is specified in the insurance contract and the benefits are determined on the basis of actuarial assumptions. Other loans – 84 – 84 The premium for risk insurance is either calculated individually for each Total unrealised gains on investment assets 97,672 1,464 97,376 375 insured or distributed collectively over a group of insureds and applies for one calendar year at a time. NOTE 7 Claims paid Group and Parent Company 2019 2018 Basic amount paid before indexation –18,418 –17,970 Waiver of premium paid –2,653 –2,531 Cancellations and repurchases 1) –550 –368 Operating expenses for claims management –143 –140 Total claims paid –21,764 –21,009 1) The item includes transferred capital of SEK 536 million (353). Accounting principle Benefits can either be guaranteed under the concluded contract or contingent in the form of a pension supplement, for example. A guaranteed benefit is recognised in the income statement as an expense and reduces the technical provision in the balance sheet by the same amount. A contingent benefit does not affect profit or loss but is recognised directly in equity. 88 ALECTA’S ANNUAL AND SUSTAINABILIT Y REPORT 2019 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS NOTE 8 Operating expenses Group Parent Company Investment management 2019 2018 2019 2018 Investment management expenses are recognised in the item Capital return, Administrative expenses –591 –575 –591 –575 expenses in the income statement. These expenses consist of direct costs, Total operating expenses in the primarily personnel, information and IT costs, as well as indirect costs, such as insurance business –591 –575 –591 –575 the share of costs for premises and costs allocated for central Group functions. Claims management 1) –143 –140 –143 –140 Property management Investment management 2) –195 –162 –195 –162 Like investment management expenses, property management expenses are Property management 3) –88 –71 –37 –34 recognised in Capital return, expenses in the income statement. A signifiTotal operating expenses –1,017 –948 –966 –911 cant expense item related to property management is external costs, as the management of Alecta’s real estate has to a large extent been outsourced to Specification of total operating external service providers. expenses Personnel costs –435 –409 –435 –409 Costs for premises –19 –18 –21 –20 Amortisation/depreciation –26 –26 –26 –26 IT costs –251 –226 –251 –226 Property management costs –88 –71 –37 –34 Selection centre costs –151 –142 –151 –142 Other costs 4) –96 –105 –94 –103 Administration fees 49 49 49 49 Total operating expenses –1,017 –948 –966 –911 1)  Recognised in Claims paid in the income statement, see Note 7. 2)  Recognised in Capital return, expenses in the income statement, see Note 9. Recognised in Capital return, expenses in the income statement (included in the item Operating NOTE 9 Capital return, expenses 3) expenses for land and buildings in Note 9). 4)  Other expenses largely comprise costs for consultants and fees paid to the Swedish Financial Supervisory Authority. Group Parent Company Accounting principle 2019 2018 2019 2018 Operating expenses for land and buildings –567 –516 –230 –249 Operating expenses are expenses for employees or temporary staff, costs for Investment management expenses 1) –195 –163 –195 –162 premises, IT costs, scheduled depreciation of property, plant and equipment Interest expenses, etc. –297 –294 –296 –294 and amortisation of intangible assets, costs for the agency agreement with Collectum related to defined benefit retirement pension and disability insurbonds and other debt securities –223 –262 –223 –262 ance, and other operations-related costs. These expenses are recognised other interest expenses –74 –32 –73 –32 as incurred. Operating expenses are divided into the following functions: Custodian expenses –30 –23 –30 –23 acquisition, administration, claims management, investment management and Depreciation/amortisation and impairment – – –821 –371 property management. Acquisition expenses and administrative expenses are shares in Group companies – – –821 –371 recognised in the item Operating expenses in the income statement. Alecta Net capital losses –1 –1 –1 – does not regard depreciation and impairment of owner-occupied property as land and buildings – –1 – – an operating expense in the insurance business. These are therefore recogloans secured by real estate –1 – –1 – nised as a separate item in the income statement. Other –29 –29 – – Total capital return, expenses –1,119 –1,026 –1,573 –1,099 Acquisition expenses Acquisition expenses refer to expenses incurred by the company in acquiring 1)  In addition to these expenses, external fees of approximately SEK 220 million (157) were paid for investments in unlisted real estate and fixed-income holdings. These fees have been recognised as new insurance contracts. Alecta does not capitalise its acquisition expenses, as a negative change in the value of the holding and are therefore included in the net amount of the amount is insignificant. unrealised losses on shares and participations in Note 6. Administrative expenses Administrative expenses consist of operating expenses incurred by Alecta for the day-to-day administration of its insurance contracts as well as costs for central Group functions, such as Finance and Legal Affairs. Claims management Expenses for claims management consist of expenses for managing contracts that are under payment. They also include a portion of the IT costs incurred in supporting the claims management process and expenses allocated to cover a portion of costs for the central Group functions. Claims management expenses are recognised in the income statement in the item Claims paid. ALECTA’S ANNUAL AND SUSTAINABILIT Y REPORT 2019 89 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Unrealised losses on NOTE 10 investment assets NOTE 12 Tax Group Parent Company Group Parent Company 2019 2018 2019 2018 2019 2018 2019 2018 Shares and participations – –43,271 – –43,271 Current tax Bonds and other debt securities – –4,484 – –4,484 Tax on profit for the year in Sweden 1) –61 –24 – – Loans secured by real estate – –1 – –1 Foreign tax on directly and indirectly owned properties –172 –77 –172 –77 Other loans –150 – –150 – Adjustment of tax attributable to Total unrealised losses on investment previous years – 80 – 80 assets –150 –47,756 –150 –47,756 Coupon tax –766 –616 –766 –616 Total current tax –999 –637 –938 –613 Deferred tax Change in deferred tax assets/liabilities –3,346 –84 –3,346 148 NOTE 11 Yield tax Total deferred tax –3,346 –84 –3,346 148 Income tax (Group) –4,345 –721 –4,284 –465 Group and Parent Company 2019 2018 Yield tax 1) –291 –318 Yield tax Adjustment of tax attributable to previous years –1 – Yield tax 2) –291 –318 Total yield tax –292 –318 Adjustment of tax attributable to previous years –1 – 1) Yield tax Total yield tax –292 –318 Capital base 2) 793,411 797,009 Tax base 3) 3,967 4,065 Tax on profit for the year (Parent Company) –4,576 –783 Yield tax before tax credit 4) –595 –610 Tax credit for paid coupon tax and income and property 1) In the Parent Company, the portion subject to income tax comprises disability pension, waiver of tax (foreign properties) in previous year 304 292 premium and occupational group life insurance (TGL). 2) For the calculation of yield tax, see Note 11. Yield tax after tax credits –291 –318 Group Parent Company Reconciliation of theoretical tax expense Sensitivity analysis Effect on the yield tax before tax credit and reported tax 2019 2018 2019 2018 Group 2019 2018 Profit/loss before yield tax and income Capital base +/– 10 % –/+ 60 –/+ 61 tax according to income statement 97,943 –25,800 97,046 –26 826 Allocation percentage +/– 1 % point –/+ 6 –/+ 6 Less: Profit/loss from operations subject Average government borrowing rates to yield tax, including consolidation +/– 1 % point –/+ 1,190 –/+ 1,196 adjustments –85,209 28,710 –85,637 28,138 Profit/loss from operations subject 2) The calculation of the capital base for yield tax is based on the value of all assets at the beginning to income tax 12,734 2,910 11,409 1,312 of 2019 less financial liabilities at the same date. The capital base is adjusted for premiums on indirectly owned foreign and Swedish properties. Of the capital base, SEK 7,700 million (6,529) refers to such premiums. The capital base for yield tax, which includes Alecta’s pension products Tax at applicable tax rate, 21.4 % 1) –2,725 –640 –2,441 –289 and family cover, represents 95.63 per cent (95.42) of the total base. This portion is calculated Difference in tax rate 2) 7 – – – on the basis of equity and technical provisions attributable to these products. 3) The tax base is calculated as the capital base multiplied by the average government borrowing Effect of changed tax rate – 73 – –5 rate for the calendar year immediately preceding the beginning of the tax year, which results in a Non-deductible expenses –20 –9 –8 –5 form of standardised yield. Since the average government borrowing rate was lower than the statutory floor for a tax base, 0.50 (0.51) was used for the calculation. Non-taxable income 60 16 27 22 4) Tax rate: 15 per cent (15). Taxable income not included in profit –2 –3 –2 –3 Loss carry-forwards 27 – – – Guaranteed premium reduction 940 908 940 908 Accounting principle Effect of initial recognition of properties 187 14 – – Other 0 0 – – Yield tax is payable on Alecta’s pension products and on family cover. Group: Alecta has made the assessment that the standardised return on the Adjustment of tax attributable to previous years 3) –2,743 –1,052 –2,768 –1,061 basis of which the yield tax is determined does not constitute a taxable profit as Creditable foreign tax 4) 861 592 906 580 defined in IAS 12. Yield tax is therefore not classified as income tax but is recogForeign income tax –171 –4 –172 4 nised as an expense in operating profit in the consolidated income statement. Coupon tax –766 –616 –766 –616 Parent Company: In the Parent Company income statement, yield tax is recognised together with income tax in the Tax on profit for the year item. Reported income tax –4,345 –721 –4,284 –465 Effective tax –34 % –25 % –38 % –35 % 1) The applicable tax rate for 2018 was 22 %. 2) Refers to the US. 3) Of which SEK 2,449 million (773) pertains to the impairment of a deferred tax asset for foreign tax and SEK 304 million (292) to the utilisation of a previously recognised tax asset for foreign tax against yield tax. Comparative figures for 2018 have been adjusted since the impairment of a tax asset for foreign tax previously recognised on the creditable foreign tax line. 4) Comprises foreign tax paid during the year and, for the Group, the corresponding deferred tax on the difference between the book and tax values of foreign properties. 90 ALECTA’S ANNUAL AND SUSTAINABILIT Y REPORT 2019 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS NOTE 12 Tax, cont. Group Parent Company 2019 2018 2019 2018 Tax asset Tax liability Tax asset Tax liability Tax asset Tax liability Tax asset Tax liability Deferred tax related to: Temporary differences Land and buildings in Sweden – –1,504 – –1,450 – –48 – –44 Land and buildings outside of Sweden – –168 – –183 – – – – Other financial investment assets – –1,668 – –836 – –1,668 – –836 Accelerated depreciation – –44 – –50 – – – – Loss carry-forwards 1) 339 – 966 – 324 – 963 – Creditable foreign tax 2) 3,718 – 5,603 – 3,556 – 5,427 – Deferred tax assets and liabilities 4,057 –3,384 6,569 –2,519 3,880 –1,716 6,390 –880 Netting of assets and liabilities –1,725 1,725 –880 880 –1,716 1,716 –880 880 Net deferred tax assets and liabilities 2,332 –1,659 5,689 –1,639 2,164 0 5,510 – of which expected to be settled after more than 12 months, amount before netting 3,736 –3,383 6,263 –2,519 3,560 –1,716 6,090 –880 1) Recognised as deferred tax asset since this is expected to be utilised against deferred tax liability attributable to temporary differences. 2) Comprises creditable foreign tax exceeding the maximum limit, creditable foreign tax paid during the year and, for the Group, the corresponding deferred tax on the difference between the book and tax values of foreign properties. Group Parent Company Changes in net deferred tax assets and liabilities 2019 2018 2019 2018 Opening balance 4,050 4,132 5,510 5,362 Recognised in profit or loss for the year –3,346 –84 –3,346 148 Foreign exchange differences 0 2 – – Change through business combinations/sale –31 – – – Closing balance 673 4,050 2,164 5,510 Accounting principle Significant estimates and judgements The tax is calculated individually for each company based on the applicable tax Income tax rules. Income tax refers to current tax and deferred tax. Current tax includes When calculating the basis for income tax in the Parent Company, an assesstax on profit for the period and coupon tax on dividends received. ment needs to be made of the allocation of income and expenses between Deferred tax is calculated using the balance sheet liability method for temoperations subject to income tax and operations subject to yield tax. The porary differences between the carrying amounts and tax bases of assets and principles applied have a direct impact on the estimated income tax. liabilities as well as tax loss carry-forwards and other unused tax deductions. In an asset acquisition, the temporary difference arising on the initial recognition Deferred tax of assets and liabilities is not taken into account. Deferred tax assets are recogDeferred tax assets and liabilities are recognised for temporary differences, nised to the extent that it is probable that they can be used. unused tax loss carry-forwards and other unused tax deductions. The reported Alecta is entitled to deduct foreign tax credits when calculating future yield deferred tax is affected by assumptions and judgements used in determining tax and income tax. Alecta’s tax expense (yield tax and income tax) will thus the carrying amounts of different assets and liabilities, and in estimating future be reduced, resulting in future economic benefits. Alecta’s assessment is that a taxable profits. tax asset should be recognised if the future tax credit can be reliably estimated. Alecta is entitled to deduct foreign tax credits when calculating future yield The offset of future tax credits against yield tax is not specifically regulated in tax and income tax. The resulting future economic benefits are recognised as a IFRS. Alecta’s assessment is that the right to future tax credits is of a similar deferred tax asset, even though the asset will largely be offset against yield tax. nature to income tax credits under IAS 12. An asset related to future tax credits An asset is recognised when the future tax credit can be reliably measured. will therefore be recognised as a deferred tax asset even though it will mainly Each year, Alecta assesses whether new deferred tax assets can be recogbe offset against yield tax. nised and whether tax loss carry-forwards or unused tax deductions from Deferred tax assets and deferred tax liabilities are recognised on a net basis previous years have been impaired. when there is a legal right of set-off and the assets and liabilities refer to taxes levied by the same tax authority. The business segments in the Parent Company on which income tax is levied are disability pension, waiver of premium and occupational group life insurance (TGL). ALECTA’S ANNUAL AND SUSTAINABILIT Y REPORT 2019 91 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS NOTE 13 Intangible assets NOTE 14 Property, plant and equipment Group Parent Company Group Parent Company 2019 2018 2019 2018 2019 2018 2019 2018 Cost Cost Opening balance, cost 683 683 683 683 Opening balance, cost 66 55 35 27 Closing balance, cost 683 683 683 683 Purchases during the year 11 11 5 8 Closing balance, cost 77 66 40 35 Accumulated amortisation and impairment Accumulated depreciation Opening balance, amortisation –336 –310 –336 –310 Opening balance, depreciation –46 –41 –21 –18 Amortisation for the year –26 –26 –26 –26 Depreciation for the year –7 –5 –4 –3 Closing balance, amortisation –362 –336 –362 –336 Closing balance, depreciation –53 –46 –25 –21 Carrying amount, Opening balance, impairment –114 –114 –114 –114 property, plant and equipment 24 20 15 14 Closing balance, impairment –114 –114 –114 –114 Carrying amount, intangible assets 207 233 207 233 Accounting principle Intangible assets comprise internally generated expenditure for IT developProperty, plant and equipment consist of IT equipment, machinery and ment, mainly IT development for the insurance system that was taken into equipment, and artwork, and are measured at cost less accumulated depreciuse in April 2008, and account for SEK 680 million (680) of the total cost. ation. Assets are depreciated on a straight-line basis based on their estimated useful lives. The depreciation period is three years for IT equipment and three to five years for machinery and equipment. Artwork is not depreciated. Accounting principle Depreciation methods and useful lives are reviewed at each closing date. At Intangible assets comprise direct expenditure for in-house-developed each closing date, an assessment is made of whether there are any indicasoftware. Internally generated intangible assets in the Group are measured at tions of impairment of items of property, plant and equipment. If this is the cost. They are expected to generate future economic benefits. All internally case, the asset’s recoverable amount is determined, and if this amount is less generated intangible assets related to in-house-developed software are than the carrying amount, the asset is written down to the lower amount. recognised only if all of the following criteria are met: an identifiable asset exists, it is probable that the asset will generate future economic benefits, the Company has control over the asset, and the cost of the asset can be reliably measured. Capitalised development costs are amortised on a straight-line basis from the date on which the asset goes into production. Amortisation schedules are prepared based on the estimated useful lives. The amortisation period is 20 years for the insurance system’s core system and five years for other, peripheral functions. For other capitalised development costs the amortisation period is three years. The insurance system’s core system has functionality for managing Alecta’s long-term insurance commitments. Amortisation methods and useful lives are reviewed at each closing date. An individual review is made for each asset. Amortisation is recognised as an operating expense. The value of Alecta’s intangible assets is reviewed at each closing date through an assessment of internal and external indications of impairment. If there are indications of impairment, the asset’s recoverable amount is determined, and if this amount is less than the carrying amount, the asset is written down to the lower amount. Significant estimates and judgements Alecta has a significant intangible asset in the form of accrued development costs for the insurance system. At each closing date, the value of each asset is assessed individually. The amortisation method and the useful life of the assets are also reviewed. 92 ALECTA’S ANNUAL AND SUSTAINABILIT Y REPORT 2019 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS NOTE 15 Land and buildings Investment properties Specification of change in fair value Group Parent Company Group 2019 2018 Fair value by sector 2019 2018 2019 2018 Opening balance 30,901 28,216 Industrial 0 160 0 160 Lease liability attributable to operating leases at the Office 23,024 20,278 7,177 7,247 transition date to IFRS 16 1) 29 – Residential 18 1,100 – – Adjusted opening balance 30,930 – Retail 7,338 7,948 4,379 3,947 New builds, extensions and conversions 1,166 1,027 Other 1,845 1,415 860 849 Acquisitions 2,259 113 Total 32,225 30,901 12,416 12,203 Sales –3,571 – Change in value 1,439 1,545 Group Change in value, right-of-use asset, land 2 – Lettable floor area by sector, sq.m 2019 2018 Closing balance 32,225 30,901 Industrial 0 17,146 Office 545,329 420,667 Parent Company 2) 2019 2018 Residential 640 33,719 Opening balance 12,203 11,282 Retail 219,817 279,652 New builds, extensions and conversions 706 631 Other 30,396 24,396 Sales –1,410 – Total 796,182 775,580 Change in value 917 290 Closing balance 12,416 12,203 Group Future rental income by maturity 2019 2018 1) See Note 50. Within one year 1,552 1,395 2) Includes Alecta’s owner-occupied properties that are recognised at fair value in the Parent Company. Later than one year but within five years 3,612 3,423 Later than five years 2,518 2,381 Specification of historical costs Total 7,682 7,199 Parent Company 2019 2018 Total 7,025 7,292 Owner-occupied properties Group 2019 2018 Cost Opening balance 1,114 1,037 Purchases during the year 62 77 Right-of-use asset, land 3 – Closing balance 1,179 1,114 Accumulated depreciation Opening balance –181 –159 Depreciation for the year –24 –22 Closing balance –205 –181 Carrying amount, owner-occupied properties 974 933 ALECTA’S ANNUAL AND SUSTAINABILIT Y REPORT 2019 93 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS NOTE 15 Land and buildings, cont. Accounting principle Significant estimates and judgements Investment properties Valuation method All properties in the Group, other than owner-occupied properties, are clasAlecta engages an external valuation firm to assess the market value of all sified and accounted for as investment properties in accordance with IAS 40, properties as at 31 December and 30 June each year. The external valuer as they are held for rental income or capital appreciation of a combination of bases its estimates on information about the specific characteristics of each the two. All investment properties are located in Sweden. property, such as current tenancies, running costs and estimated market Investment properties are measured at fair value, which is the price that rents. In connection with the external valuation the information is would be received to sell an asset in an orderly transaction between market quality-assured by Alecta. participants at the measurement date. In accordance with IFRS 13, Alecta’s The total value of Alecta’s property portfolio is based on the estimated investment properties are classified in Level 3 of the fair value hierarchy, market value of each individual property. The market value consists of the which means that non-observable inputs have been used. No properties future benefits which an acquirer could obtain from the property. The key were transferred to a different level of the hierarchy during the year. Alecta’s factors are what the property may be used for, and the extent to which and current use of the investment properties is deemed to be the best use, which in what way an acquirer can use the property. means that the valuation of the properties should reflect the assets’ maxiMarket values of properties are normally determined through cash flow mum value. Gains and losses arising from changes in the fair values of the assessments based on estimates of each property’s earnings potential. The investment properties are recognised in the income statement in the period method involves analysing expected future cash flows over a period of time, in which the gain or loss occurs. Purchases and sales of investment propernormally ten years, and calculating the present value of these cash flows ties are recognised in the balance sheet on the completion date. using an estimated discount rate. The components of the nominal discount Alecta also owns properties that are being developed or exploited for rate are the estimated inflation rate, the risk-free real interest rate and a risk future use as investment properties. These project properties are measured premium. In determining the risk premium, account is taken of the nature of at fair value or, if fair value cannot be determined at the time of construction, the investment, the property, contractual relationships and financial risks. this investment property is measured at cost until its fair value can be reliably The valuations have been designed to meet the requirements of the MSCI determined. Project properties recognised at cost account for SEK 3,516 Sweden Real Estate Index. million (3,340) of the total carrying amount of SEK 32,226 million (30,901) in the Group. Significant valuation assumptions All rental agreements for the Group’s investment properties are classified The valuation method used is based on several assumptions, such as estias operating leases according to IFRS 16. Rental income is recognised as mates of market rents, future costs, long-term vacancies, inflation, discount income on a straight-line basis so that only that portion of the rent which is rates and required rates of return in the residual value assessment. A change attributable to each period is recognised as income in the period. in any of these assumptions will affect the valuation. Some of the key valuation assumptions are presented below. Owner-occupied properties Alecta’s owner-occupied properties are recognised at fair value in the ParValuation assumptions, weighted 2019 2018 ent Company in accordance with the Swedish Insurance Companies Annual Market rent per square metre SEK 2,612 SEK 2,366 Accounts Act and classified as land and buildings in the balance sheet. The Long-term vacancy rate 5.55 % 4.16 % Group applies IAS 16 for owner-occupied properties, since a large portion Required rate of return, initial 4.03 % 4.10 % of the property is held for the provision of the company’s own services. In Required rate of return, exit 4.45 % 4.47 % the Group, owner-occupied properties are measured at cost. The cost is recognised less accumulated depreciation and any accumulated impairment. Sensitivity analysis Owner-occupied properties are divided into components and the depreciaThe value-affecting parameters used in the valuation should reflect the tion method used reflects the time at which the asset’s future economic reasoning of a prospective buyer in the market. To illustrate the uncertainty benefits are expected to have been exhausted. Actual operating and mainin the valuation, a number of parameters which show the impact on the valutenance expenses for Alecta’s owner-occupied properties are recognised in ation in SEK million have been singled out. operating expenses in the income statement. The full amount of depreciation and impairment of owner-occupied properties is recognised as Depreciation Sensitivity analysis Change 2019 2018 of owner-occupied properties in the consolidated income statement. Market rent +/– 10 % +/– 3,250 +/– 2,967 Property costs +/– SEK 50/sq.m +/– 748 +/– 729 Long-term vacancy rate +/– 2 % +/– 740 +/– 619 Required rate of return, exit +/– 0.25 % +/– 1,891 +/– 1,652 94 ALECTA’S ANNUAL AND SUSTAINABILIT Y REPORT 2019 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS NOTE 16 Shares and participations in Group companies 1) Number of Carrying amount Carrying amount Swedish companies, Parent Company Corporate Identity Number Registered office shares Share of equity 2019 2018 Alecta AB 556597-9266 Stockholm 1,000 100 % 0 0 Alecta Köpcentrum AB 556943-7071 Stockholm 500 100 % 10 10 Alfab Nacka 12 AB 559006-1015 Stockholm 1,000 100 % – – Alfab Värmdö 1 AB 556687-7071 Stockholm 1,000 100 % – – Alfab Värmdö 2 AB 556743-0102 Stockholm 100,000 100 % – – Lidingö Hotellfastighets AB 556701-7099 Stockholm 1,000 100 % – – Alecta Retail Holding AB 556660-2594 Stockholm 1,000 100 % 124 124 Alfab Borås 1 AB 2) 556708-2002 Stockholm – – – – Alfab Järfälla 1 AB 556664-7599 Stockholm 1,000 100 % – – Alfab Jönköping 1 AB 556692-9385 Stockholm 1,000 100 % – – – Alfab Västerås 1 AB 2) 556606-3656 Stockholm – – – – Alfab Jönköping 4 AB 556188-6127 Stockholm 1,000 100 % – – Alfab Jönköping 5 AB 556658-9783 Stockholm 1,000 100 % – – Alfab Valutan 13 AB 556708-2713 Stockholm 100,000 100 % – – Fastighet Ädel AB 2) 556604-9275 Stockholm – – – – Fastighetsaktiebolaget Borås Filtret 2) 556790-5525 Stockholm – – – – Fastighetsaktiebolaget Åkersberga Österåker Runö 556785-6389 Stockholm 1,000 100 % – – Fyrfast AB 556604-5513 Stockholm 1,000 100 % – – Alecta Tjänstepensioner AB 556713-7160 Stockholm 1,000 100 % 0 0 Alecta Fastigheter AB 559103-4086 Stockholm 500 100 % 0 0 Alecta BRF Komplementär AB 3) 559187-3210 Stockholm 500 100 % 0 0 Alfab Indirekt Holding AB 556931-5459 Stockholm 50,000 100 % 319 319 Kabelverket Holding AB 556587-1075 Stockholm 1,000 100 % 500 500 Alfab Göteborg 3 AB 556913-5717 Stockholm 500 100 % – – Alfab Göteborg 4 AB 556718-6654 Stockholm 1,000 100 % – – Alfab Göteborg 5 AB 556690-0386 Stockholm 1,000 100 % – – Alfab Helsingborg 1 AB 2) 559032-2128 Stockholm – – – – Alfab Stockholm 1 AB 556660-5530 Stockholm 1,000 100 % – – Alfab Vällingby 1 AB 556892-7858 Stockholm 500 100 % – – Alfab Vällingby 2 AB 556892-7882 Stockholm 500 100 % – – Alfab Västerport 1 AB 556690-0378 Stockholm 1,000 100 % – – Alfab Västerport 2 AB 556946-8944 Stockholm 500 100 % – – Fastighets AB Kablaget 556577-4642 Stockholm 1,000 100 % – – – Alecta Fastighetsutveckling AB 556577-4618 Stockholm 1,000 100 % – – – Fastighets AB Kabelverket 556577-4568 Stockholm 1,000 100 % – – Vasaterminalen AB 556118-8722 Stockholm 2,022,000 100 % – – – World Trade Center Stockholm AB 556273-0803 Stockholm 1,000 100 % – – – WTC Parkering AB 556424-3920 Stockholm 1,000 100 % – – Alecta Bredden Holding AB 4) 556922-4198 Stockholm 1,000,000 100 % 548 – Alecta Bredden Holding 2 AB 4) 556918-4806 Stockholm 50,000 100 % – – – Bredden 1 Fastighets AB 4) 556684-3784 Stockholm 100,000 100 % – – Fastighetsbolaget Augustendal KB 916635-9084 Stockholm – 99.9 % 795 679 Fastighetsbolaget Båthamnen KB 916626-5711 Stockholm – 99.9 % 52 51 Fastighetsbolaget Ellensvik KB 916625-6991 Stockholm – 99.9 % 207 163 Fastighetsbolaget Gustafshög KB 916625-6983 Stockholm – 99.9 % 4 4 Fastighetsbolaget Klaraberg KB 916625-6975 Stockholm – 99.9 % 465 445 Fastighetsbolaget Mässan KB 916626-5653 Stockholm – 99.9 % 97 85 Fastighetsbolaget Oljekällaren KB 916626-5638 Stockholm – 99.9 % 177 187 Fastighetsbolaget Philipin KB 916626-5679 Stockholm – 99.9 % 336 315 Fastighetsbolaget Saluhallen KB 916626-5695 Stockholm – 99.9 % 50 46 Kontorshotellet Nacka Strand KB 969646-7225 Stockholm – 99.9 % 0 0 Morgonen 1 i Lund KB 969784-9975 Stockholm – 99.9 % 12 12 2 Kilo i Halmstad KB 969784-9967 Stockholm – 99.9 % 43 44 Alfab Helsingborg 2 KB 2) 969775-2583 Stockholm – – – 12 Naraden Göteborg 1 KB 969697-7892 Stockholm – 99.9 % 320 320 SoliFast Finansiering KB 3) 969787-1292 Stockholm – 99.9 % – – Total, Sweden 4,059 3,316 1)  As all shares are unlisted, market values are not indicated. Carrying amounts are not indicated for subsidiaries of sub-groups. 2) The company was divested in 2019. 3) The company was acquired in 2019. 4) Subsidiary 2019. ALECTA’S ANNUAL AND SUSTAINABILIT Y REPORT 2019 95 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS NOTE 16 Shares and participations in Group companies 1), cont. Carrying amount Carrying amount Foreign companies, USA 2), Parent Company Corporate Identity Number Registered office Number of shares Share of equity 2019 2018 Alecta Real Estate USA, LLC DE ID 4078782 Delaware – 100 % 854 1,586 Alecta Real Estate Investment, LLC DE ID 4223706 Delaware – 100 % – – – Alecta Real Estate Winsted, LLC 3) DE ID 3601057 Delaware – 100 % – – Alecta Value Add Investments, LLC DE ID 5469880 Delaware – 100 % – – Boylston Street Investors, LLC DE ID 5405204 Delaware – 100 % – – Cupertino – Tantau, LLC 3) DE ID 4895201 Delaware – 100 % – – SRP Valley, LLC DE ID 5125176 Delaware – 100 % – – PMAK MOB ALECTA REIT FEEDER, LLC 4) EIN 84-3660029 Delaware – 100 % 760 – Total, USA 1,614 1,586 Total shares and participations in Group companies 5,673 4,902 1) As all shares are unlisted, market values are not indicated. Carrying amounts are not indicated for subsidiaries of sub-groups. 2)  In 2017, the sale of the entire directly owned foreign real estate property portfolio in the US was completed. The remaining assets of foreign companies mainly comprise indirect holdings. 3) The company was liquidated in 2019. 4) The company was acquired in 2019. Carrying amount Carrying amount Debt securities issued by, and Parent Company Cost 2019 2018 NOTE 17 loans to, Group companies Opening balance, cost 14,216 13,245 Purchases during the year 548 55 Carrying amount Carrying amount Shareholder contributions during the year 841 – Parent Company 2019 2018 Divestments for the year –12 – Cost Share of profit for the year 102 916 Opening balance, cost 9,066 9,272 Closing balance, cost 15,695 14,216 Change for the year 1,857 –206 Total debt securities issued by, and Accumulated impairment loans to, Group companies 10,923 9,066 Opening balance, impairment –9,314 –9,336 Impairment for the year –821 –371 Reversal of impairment 113 393 Accounting principle Closing balance, impairment –10,022 –9,314 Intercompany loans and receivables are financial assets which are not quoted Total shares and participations in Group in an active market. These assets are classified as loans receivable and are companies 5,673 4,902 measured at amortised cost by applying the effective interest method. Accounting principle In the Parent Company, shares and participations in Group companies are recognised at cost less impairment. 96 ALECTA’S ANNUAL AND SUSTAINABILIT Y REPORT 2019 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS NOTE 18 Investments in associated companies and joint ventures 31 Dec 2019 Parent Company – joint ventures Country Corporate Identity Number Share of equity Fair value, shares Carrying amount, loans Interest income Alfa SSM JV AB Sweden 556840-4262 50.00 % 0 – – KB Alfa SSM Sweden 969715-3998 49.00 % 92 – 7 Ancore Fastigheter AB Sweden 556817-8858 50.00 % 1,467 – – Convea AB Sweden 556912-4505 50.00 % 67 – – Fastighets AB Stenvalvet 1) Sweden 556803-3111 – – – 1 Bredden III Förvaltning AB 2) Sweden 556922-4198 – – – 5 Global Business Gate JV AB Sweden 559109-9030 50.00 % 0 – – Global Business Gate JV KB Sweden 969781-4847 49.50 % 67 – – Kongahälla Holding AB Sweden 559126-1903 50.00 % 395 – – Logistikfastigheter Sverige AB 1) Sweden 559047-9738 – – – 7 Midstar Hotels AB Sweden 559007-7979 49.80 % 2,135 334 – Sollentuna Stinsen JV AB Sweden 559085-9954 50.00 % 51 – – Stadsrum Fastigheter AB Sweden 559028-9624 49.00 % 1,141 – – Swedish Airport Infrastructure Holding AB Sweden 559012-5182 50.00 % 0 – 23 Swedish Airport Infrastructure Holding KB Sweden 969775-2609 49.90 % 1,842 – – Parent Company – Associated companies Heimstaden Bostad AB – Pref B Sweden 556864-0873 60.53 % 20,194 – – Heimstaden Bostad AB – Ordinary share Sweden 556864-0873 35.31 % 5,777 – – Bain Capital Credit CLO USA – 24.35 % 221 – – Total, Parent Company 33,449 334 43 Group company – joint ventures Långeberga Logistik AB Sweden 556928-2840 50 % 478 – – ARE-LEI Venture, LLC USA DE ID 5473708 95.00 % 436 – – Boylston Street Associates LLC USA DE ID 4906542 95 % 5 – – PMAK MOB JV REOC, LLC 3) USA EIN 84-3591471 48 % 1,989 – – Total, Group 36,357 334 43 1) The company was divested in 2019. 2) Subsidiary 2019. 3) The company was acquired in 2019. 31 Dec 2018 Parent Company Country Corporate Identity Number Share of equity Fair value, shares Carrying amount, loans Interest income Alfa SSM JV AB Sweden 556840-4262 50.00 % 0 – – KB Alfa SSM Sweden 969715-3998 49.00 % 44 121 3 Ancore Fastigheter AB Sweden 556817-8858 50.00 % 1,396 – – Bredden III Förvaltning AB Sweden 556922-4198 39.30 % 194 105 19 Convea AB Sweden 556912-4505 50.00 % 54 – – Fastighets AB Stenvalvet Sweden 556803-3111 25.60 % 655 652 59 Global Business Gate JV AB Sweden 559109-9030 50.00 % 0 – – Global Business Gate JV KB Sweden 969781-4847 49.50 % 35 – – Heimstaden Bostad AB – Pref B Sweden 556864-0873 59.20 % 12,527 – – Heimstaden Bostad AB – Ordinary share Sweden 556864-0873 30.80 % 3,331 – – Kongahälla Holding AB Sweden 559126-1903 50.00 % 105 275 – Logistikfastigheter Sverige AB Sweden 559047-9738 50.00 % 515 370 21 Midstar Hotels AB Sweden 559007-7979 49.90 % 1,140 – – Sollentuna Stinsen JV AB Sweden 559085-9954 50.00 % 77 334 20 Stadsrum Fastigheter AB Sweden 559028-9624 49.00 % 828 – – Swedish Airport Infrastructure Holding AB Sweden 559012-5182 50.00 % 0 – – Swedish Airport Infrastructure Holding KB Sweden 969775-2609 49.90 % 1,696 – – Total, Parent Company 22,597 1,857 122 Group company Långeberga Logistik AB Sweden 556928-2840 50.00 % 429 – – ARE-LEI Venture, LLC USA DE ID 5473708 95.00 % 839 – – Boylston Street Associates, LLC USA DE ID 4906542 95.00 % 5 – – Total, Group 23,870 1,857 122 Accounting principle Loans in joint ventures refer to shareholder loans which are measured at Alecta owns shares and participations in companies that are categorised amortised cost using the effective interest method and recognised in the either as jointly controlled entities (joint ventures) or associated companies. loans receivable category. Accrued interest income and interest payments Investments in jointly controlled entities are made through joint ventures. received are recognised as interest income in the item Return on capital, Shares and participations in associated companies and joint ventures income. During the 2018–2021 period, a temporary exception will be made are recognised as financial instruments at fair value through profit or loss from the IFRS 9 Financial Instruments accounting standard. Refer to Note 1 in accordance with IAS 28. In the balance sheet, shares and participations for more information. Alecta’s assessment is that the standard will not result are recognised in the investment assets category. Changes in value are acin any material change in classification and measurement, and that there is no counted for in the income statement as unrealised gains or losses. Dividends need to make provisions for the Group’s loans in joint ventures. are recognised as dividends received in the item Return on capital, income. Information on transactions between Alecta and the above joint ventures Valuation techniques for shares and participations are described in Note 22. is provided in Note 51 Related party disclosures. ALECTA’S ANNUAL AND SUSTAINABILIT Y REPORT 2019 97 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS NOTE 19 Classification of financial assets and liabilities Financial assets/ Financial assets/ Group, 31 Dec 2019 liabilities measured at liabilities measured at fair value through fair value through Loans and receivables/ Total profit or loss profit or loss other financial assets carrying Financial assets on initial recognition through trading and liabilities amount Fair value Shares and participations in associated companies and joint ventures 36,357 – – 36,357 36,357 Loans to associated companies and joint ventures – – 334 334 334 Shares and participations 454,757 – – 454,757 454,757 Bonds and other debt securities 416,620 – – 416,620 416,620 Loans secured by real estate 1,914 – 2,569 4,483 4,483 Other loans 6,444 – – 6,444 6,444 Derivatives – 12,755 – 12,755 12,755 Receivables related to direct insurance operations – – 2,549 2,549 2,549 Other receivables – – 8,150 8,150 8,150 Cash and bank balances – – 3,332 3,332 3,332 Accrued interest and rental income – – 8,982 8,982 8,982 Total 916,092 12,755 25,916 954,763 954,763 Financial liabilities Liabilities related to direct insurance operations – – 9 9 9 Derivatives – 12,375 – 12,375 12,375 Other liabilities – – 7,187 7,187 7,187 Other accrued expenses and deferred income – – 4,948 4,948 4,948 Total – 12,375 12,144 24,519 24,519 Financial assets/ Financial assets/ Group, 31 Dec 2018 liabilities measured at liabilities measured at fair value through fair value through Loans and receivables/ Total profit or loss profit or loss other financial assets carrying Financial assets on initial recognition through trading and liabilities amount Fair value Shares and participations in joint ventures 23,870 – – 23,870 23,870 Loans to joint ventures – – 1,857 1,857 1,857 Shares and participations 352,238 – – 352,238 352,238 Bonds and other debt securities 405,487 – – 405,487 405,487 Loans secured by real estate – – 2,777 2,777 2,777 Other loans 3,133 – – 3,133 3,133 Derivatives – 5,841 – 5,841 5,841 Receivables related to direct insurance operations – – 1,726 1,726 1,726 Other receivables – – 966 966 966 Cash and bank balances – – 3,392 3,392 3,392 Accrued interest and rental income – – 8,028 8,028 8,028 Total 784,728 5,841 18,746 809,315 809,315 Financial liabilities Liabilities related to direct insurance operations – – 6 6 6 Derivatives – 9,139 – 9,139 9,139 Other liabilities – – 2,898 2,898 2,898 Other accrued expenses and deferred income – – 4,458 4,458 4,458 Total – 9,139 7,362 16,501 16,501 98 ALECTA’S ANNUAL AND SUSTAINABILIT Y REPORT 2019 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS NOTE 19 Classification of financial assets and liabilities, cont. Financial assets/ Financial assets/ Parent Company, 31 Dec 2019 liabilities measured at liabilities measured at fair value through fair value through Loans and receivables/ Total profit or loss profit or loss other financial assets carrying Financial assets on initial recognition through trading and liabilities amount Fair value Debt securities issued by, and loans to, Group companies – – 10,923 10,923 10,923 Shares and participations in associated companies and joint ventures 33,449 – – 33,449 33,449 Loans to associated companies and joint ventures – – 334 334 334 Shares and participations 454,208 – – 454,208 454,208 Bonds and other debt securities 416,620 – – 416,620 416,620 Loans secured by real estate 1,914 – 2,569 4,483 4,483 Other loans 6,444 – – 6,444 6,444 Derivatives – 12,755 – 12,755 12,755 Receivables related to direct insurance operations – – 2,549 2,549 2,549 Other receivables – – 8,915 8,915 8,915 Cash and bank balances – – 3,280 3,280 3,280 Accrued interest and rental income – – 8,990 8,990 8,990 Total 912,635 12,755 37,560 962,950 962,950 Financial liabilities Liabilities related to direct insurance operations – – 9 9 9 Derivatives – 12,375 – 12,375 12,375 Other liabilities – – 9,554 9,554 9,544 Other accrued expenses and deferred income – – 4,944 4,944 4,944 Total – 12,375 14,507 26,882 26,882 Financial assets/ Financial assets/ Parent Company, 31 Dec 2018 liabilities measured at liabilities measured at fair value through fair value through Loans and receivables/ Total profit or loss profit or loss other financial assets carrying Financial assets on initial recognition through trading and liabilities amount Fair value Debt securities issued by, and loans to, Group companies – – 9,066 9,066 9,066 Shares and participations in joint ventures 22,597 – – 22,597 22,597 Loans to joint ventures – – 1,857 1,857 1,857 Shares and participations 351,727 – – 351,727 351,727 Bonds and other debt securities 405,487 – – 405,487 405,487 Loans secured by real estate – – 2,777 2,777 2,777 Other loans 3,133 – – 3,133 3,133 Derivatives – 5,841 – 5,841 5,841 Receivables related to direct insurance operations – – 1,726 1,726 1,726 Other receivables – – 2,050 2,050 2,050 Cash and bank balances – – 2,970 2,970 2,970 Accrued interest and rental income – – 8,028 8,028 8,028 Total 782,944 5,841 28,474 817,259 817,259 Financial liabilities Liabilities related to direct insurance operations – – 6 6 6 Derivatives – 9,139 – 9,139 9,139 Other liabilities – – 4,390 4,390 4,390 Other accrued expenses and deferred income – – 4,458 4,458 4,458 Total – 9,139 8,854 17,993 17,993 ALECTA’S ANNUAL AND SUSTAINABILIT Y REPORT 2019 99 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS NOTE 20 Net profit by class of financial assets and liabilities Group Parent Company 2019 2018 2019 2018 Financial assets at fair value through profit or loss shares and participations 121,026 –14,308 120,976 –14,363 debt securities 18,622 11,349 18,622 11,349 loans secured by real estate 63 – 63 – loans 227 418 227 418 Financial assets and liabilities held for trade derivatives –16,599 –18,269 –16,599 –18,269 Loans and receivables 147 232 280 346 Other liabilities –21 –27 –21 –27 Total net profit 1) 123,465 –20,605 123,548 –20,546 Land and buildings, net 1,745 2,745 741 1,637 Investment management and custodian expenses –224 –186 –225 –184 Other, net 45 3 46 3 Total return on capital as reported in income statement 125,031 –18,043 124,110 –19,090 1) Net profit includes realised and unrealised changes in value as well as interest, dividends and foreign exchange gains and losses. NOTE 21 Maturity analysis of financial liabilities Time to maturity Group, 31 Dec 2019 < 3 months 3 months < 1 year 1–5 years >5 years Total Non-liquidated securities transactions –71 – – – –71 Liability for cash collateral received for derivatives –6,764 – – – –6,764 Derivatives gross – outflow –355,589 –28,128 –23,037 –43,150 –449,904 Derivatives gross – inflow 362,953 27,867 21,931 35,244 447,995 Other liabilities –361 – – – –361 Other accrued expenses and deferred income –4,948 – – – –4,948 Total cash flow –4,780 –261 –1,106 –7,906 –14,053 Time to maturity Group, 31 Dec 2018 < 3 months 3 months < 1 year 1–5 years >5 years Total Non-liquidated securities transactions –554 – – – –554 Liability for cash collateral received for derivatives –2,069 – – – –2,069 Derivatives gross – outflow –325,526 –27,027 –30,616 –42,059 –425,228 Derivatives gross – inflow 326,500 27,419 29,525 34,941 418,385 Other liabilities –281 – – – –281 Other accrued expenses and deferred income –4,458 – – – –4,458 Total cash flow –6,388 392 –1,091 –7,118 –14,205 The purpose of this Note is to illustrate when the Group’s financial liabilities fall due for payment. The table shows actual future cash flows in each period, based on remaining contractual times to maturity. The amounts presented for each time to maturity refer to undiscounted cash flows. For derivatives, cash flows are reported on a gross basis, i.e. both outflows and inflows, to create a better understanding of these flows. For variable interest rate derivatives, the last known interest rate has been applied to approximate future cash flows. For a description of liquidity risk, see Note 3 Risks and risk management. 100 ALECTA’S ANNUAL AND SUSTAINABILIT Y REPORT 2019 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS NOTE 22 Valuation categories for financial instruments measured at fair value Under the disclosure requirements in IFRS 13, Level 3: Measurement based on Principle for reclassification between Level 1 financial assets and liabilities which are measured unobservable inputs and Level 3 at fair value must be classified into three levels Financial assets which are measured at fair value A reclassification from Level 1 to Level 3 is made based on the valuation technique that is used. without access to observable market inputs are if a financial instrument is delisted from an active Assets and liabilities must be measured using the classified to Level 3. Financial assets at fair value market and there are insufficient market inputs to valuation technique that is appropriate in the which are measured on the basis of some observallow for Level 2 measurement. Similarly, a reclascircumstances, maximising the use of relevant able inputs but for which Alecta does not have sification from Level 3 to Level 1 may be made if observable inputs. The objective is to identify the ability to inspect the used valuation technique the Level 3 financial instrument is quoted in an the valuation technique which best estimates are also classified to this level. active market. the price at which the financial assets or financial Examples of financial assets in this level mainly In 2019, no financial instruments were transliabilities can be sold or transferred between marcomprise financial instruments with real estate ferred from Level 1 to Level 3 or from Level 3 to ket participants under current market conditions. and debt securities as underlying asset but also, Level 1. In 2018, one shareholding was transferred The three levels of valuation categories are: to a lesser degree, unlisted shares and venture from Level 3 to Level 1 after the shares were capital investments. Fair values for these assets listed on an active market and one shareholding Level 1: Measurement using prices quoted in are obtained from fund managers, counterparties or was transferred from Level 1 to Level 3 after the an active market property-owning companies following an external shares were delisted. Fair value measurement based on prices quoted valuation of the underlying properties. in an active market is used if quoted prices are Sensitivity analysis for Level 3 financial easily and regularly available and these prices Principles for reclassification between levels instruments represent actual and regularly occurring market Financial assets and liabilities measured at fair Under IFRS 13, a sensitivity analysis must be transactions. Examples of financial assets which value are classified to one of the three valuation presented for those financial instruments which are classified to this level include listed shares, categories on acquisition and then normally have been measured at fair value in accordance government bonds and Swedish mortgage bonds. retain their classification until they are sold. with Level 3. The sensitivity analysis must include Prices for these financial assets are obtained Under certain circumstances a financial asset may, a narrative description of the sensitivity of the fair daily through providers of index prices retrieved however, be reclassified to another level after the value measurement to changes in unobservable from each exchange, which, where applicable, are acquisition date. The following principles apply to inputs. translated at exchange rates quoted on a daily such reclassification: Alecta’s assets in Level 3 mainly comprise finanbasis from the price provider, WM Company. cial instruments with real estate and debt securiPrinciple for reclassification between Level 1 ties as underlying asset and, to a lesser degree, Level 2: Measurement based on observable and Level 2 unlisted shares and venture capital investments. inputs To be reclassified from Level 1 to Level 2, a As we do not have the means to inspect the Financial assets and liabilities for which there financial instrument must no longer be traded in unobservable inputs used by external price are no quoted prices in an active market are an active market but still be capable of being meaproviders, fund managers, counterparts or real measured at fair value based on as many available sured in accordance with the description for Level estate companies in their fair value measuremarket inputs as possible. Examples of market 2. Similarly, a reclassification from Level 2 to Level 1 ments of these financial instruments, any sensitivinputs used in the measurement include: may be made if the Level 2 financial instrument is ity analysis is subject to a degree of uncertainty. • Q uoted interest rates, credit spreads and quoted in an active market. For real estate-related investments, however, it is exchange rates No financial instrument was transferred from reasonable to assume that these will be affected • M arket information on prices for similar Level 1 to Level 2, or from Level 2 to Level 1, in by roughly the same value-influencing factors financial instruments either 2019 or 2018. as directly owned properties, i.e. changes in net • M arket information on prices in recently operating income and required rates of return, completed transactions in the same or similar Principle for reclassification between Level 2 while the debt securities are mainly impacted by financial instruments and Level 3 interest and credit risk and unlisted shares, and A reclassification from Level 2 to Level 3 may be venture capital by equity market risk. Examples of financial assets and liabilities which made if it is no longer possible to measure a finanThe following table presents the estimated are classified to this level include debt instruments cial instrument at fair value based on observable effects on fair value if the required rates of return in the form of Swedish and foreign corporate market inputs. Similarly, Level 3 financial instruon real estate rose 0.5 percentage points, an bonds, structured bonds, and all OTC derivatives, ments may be transferred to Level 2 if observable interest-rate increase of 1 per cent and a sharewhere applicable, in the form of interest rate market inputs become available and an external price decrease of 10 per cent. swaps, currency derivatives and credit derivatives. price provider is able to measure fair value based For debt instruments, daily prices from the exteron these inputs. Sensitivity analysis nal price providers Refinitiv and Bloomberg are No financial instruments were transferred from Group Fair Value-influencing Effect on used. Under the concluded agreements, Alecta Level 2 to Level 3 in either 2019 or 2018. In 2019, (SEK million) value factor fair value has the right to inspect the price provider’s valuhowever, three debt securities were transferred Real estateReturn requirement ation data to assure the quality of the provided from Level 3 to Level 2, as observable market related increase of 0.5 price information. inputs became available and external price providholdings 56,585 percentage points –7,073 For OTC derivatives, fair value is determined ers have been able to measure the investments at Interest-related Interest-rate increase on a daily basis in Alecta’s financial system in fair value. For the corresponding period of 2018, holdings 27,146 of 1 percentage point –1,491 accordance with market practice by estimating there were no transfers from Level 3 to Level 2. Equity-related Share price decrease the present value of each derivative’s future cash holdings 6,531 of 10 per cent –653 flows based on quoted market prices in respect of Total Level 3 90,262 –9,217 interest rates, credit spreads and exchange rates. ALECTA’S ANNUAL AND SUSTAINABILIT Y REPORT 2019 101 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS NOTE 22 Valuation categories for financial instruments measured at fair value, cont. Fair values of financial instruments, 31 Dec 2019 Measurement using prices Measurement based on Measurement based on quoted in an active market observable inputs unobservable inputs Carrying amount Group Level 1 Level 2 Level 3 31 Dec 2019 Assets Shares and participations 421,740 – 33,017 454,757 Shares and participations in associated companies and joint ventures – – 36,357 36,357 Bonds and other debt securities 230,010 174,080 12,530 416,620 Loans secured by real estate 1) – – 1,914 1,914 Other loans – – 6,444 6,444 Derivatives – 12,755 – 12,755 Total assets 651,750 186,835 90,262 928,847 Liabilities Derivatives – 12,375 – 12,375 Total liabilities – 12,375 – 12,375 Parent Company Assets Shares and participations 421,740 – 32,468 454,208 Shares and participations in associated companies and joint ventures – – 33,449 33,449 Bonds and other debt securities 230,010 174,080 12,530 416,620 Loans secured by real estate 1) – – 1,914 1,914 Other loans – – 6,444 6,444 Derivatives – 12,755 – 12,755 Total assets 651,750 186,835 86,805 925,390 Liabilities Derivatives – 12,375 – 12,375 Total liabilities – 12,375 – 12,375 1) Loans secured by real estate were added during 2019. Fair values of financial instruments, 31 Dec 2018 Measurement using prices Measurement based on Measurement based on quoted in an active market observable inputs unobservable inputs Carrying amount Group Level 1 Level 2 Level 3 31 Dec 2018 Assets Shares and participations 330,327 – 21,911 352,238 Shares and participations in joint ventures – – 23,870 23,870 Bonds and other debt securities 212,358 186,874 6,255 405,487 Other loans – – 3,133 3,133 Derivatives – 5,841 – 5,841 Total assets 542,685 192,715 55,169 790,569 Liabilities Derivatives – 9,139 – 9,139 Total liabilities – 9,139 – 9,139 Parent Company Assets Shares and participations 330,327 – 21,400 351,727 Shares and participations in joint ventures – – 22,597 22 597 Bonds and other debt securities 212,358 186,874 6,255 405,487 Other loans – – 3,133 3,133 Derivatives – 5,841 – 5,841 Total assets 542,685 192,715 53,385 788,785 Liabilities Derivatives – 9,139 – 9,139 Total liabilities – 9,139 – 9,139 102 ALECTA’S ANNUAL AND SUSTAINABILIT Y REPORT 2019 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS NOTE 23 Disclosures on financial instruments measured at fair value based on Level 3 1) Fair value at year-end 2019 Shares and participations Shares and in associated companies Bonds and other Loans secured by Group participations and joint ventures debt securities real estate 2) Other loans Total Opening balance 2019 21,911 23,870 6,255 – 3,133 55,169 Purchased 11,887 12,376 7,281 1,886 3,990 37,420 Sold –2,939 –2,035 – –10 –726 –5,710 Gains and losses 2,158 2,146 167 38 47 4,556 Realised gains/losses, sold entire holding 129 1,201 – – 184 1,514 Realised gains/losses, sold portion of holding 40 70 – – – 110 Unrealised gains/losses 1,359 981 123 38 –150 2,351 Unrealised foreign exchange gains/losses 630 –106 44 – 13 581 Transferred from Level 3 – – –1,173 – – –1,173 Closing balance 2019 33,017 36,357 12,530 1,914 6,444 90,262 Total unrealised gains and losses recognised in the income statement for financial instruments held at the end of the period 2,165 2,011 168 38 6 4,388 Gains and losses recognised as return on capital during the period 2,158 2,146 168 38 47 4,557 Parent Company Opening balance 2019 21,400 22,597 6,255 – 3,133 53,385 Purchased 11,887 10,263 7,281 1,886 3,990 35,307 Sold –2,939 –1,713 – –10 –726 –5,388 Gains and losses 2,120 2,302 167 38 47 4,674 Realised gains/losses, sold entire holding 129 1,201 – – 184 1,514 Realised gains/losses, sold portion of holding 40 – – – – 40 Unrealised gains/losses 1,334 1,107 123 38 –150 2,452 Unrealised foreign exchange gains/losses 617 –6 44 – 13 668 Transferred from Level 3 – – –1,173 – – –1,173 Closing balance 2019 32,468 33,449 12,530 1,914 6,444 86,805 Total unrealised gains and losses recognised in the income statement for financial instruments held at the end of the period 2,126 2,167 168 38 6 4,505 Gains and losses recognised as return on capital during the period 2,120 2,302 168 38 47 4,675 1) The definition of Level 3 is found in Note 22 Valuation categories. 2) Loans secured by real estate were added during 2019. ALECTA’S ANNUAL AND SUSTAINABILIT Y REPORT 2019 103 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS NOTE 23 Disclosures on financial instruments measured at fair value based on Level 31), cont. Fair value at year-end 2018 Shares and Shares and participations Bonds and other Group participations in joint ventures debt securities Other loans Total Opening balance 2018 15,310 15,359 – 2,039 32,708 Purchased 7,565 6,815 6,327 1,069 21,776 Sold –275 –141 – –109 –525 Gains and losses 1,167 1,837 –72 134 3,066 Realised gains/losses, sold entire holding –40 0 – – –40 Realised gains/losses, sold portion of holding 7 25 – – 32 Unrealised gains/losses 458 1,760 –1 84 2,301 Unrealised foreign exchange gains/losses 742 52 –71 50 773 Transferred from Level 3 –1,856 – – – –1,856 Transferred to Level 3 0 – – – 0 Closing balance 2018 21,911 23,870 6,255 3,133 55,169 Total unrealised gains and losses recognised in the income statement for financial instruments held at the end of the period 1,167 1,837 –72 134 3,066 Gains and losses recognised as return on capital during the period 1,167 1,837 –72 134 3,066 Parent Company Opening balance 2018 14,865 13,900 – 2,039 30,804 Purchased 7,537 6,802 6,327 1,069 21,735 Sold –275 – – –109 –384 Gains and losses 1,129 1,895 –72 134 3,086 Realised gains/losses, sold entire holding –40 – – – –40 Realised gains/losses, sold portion of holding 7 – – – 7 Unrealised gains/losses 451 1,895 –1 84 2,429 Unrealised foreign exchange gains/losses 711 – –71 50 690 Transferred from Level 3 –1,856 – – – –1,856 Transferred to Level 3 0 – – – 0 Closing balance 2018 21,400 22,597 6,255 3,133 53,385 Total unrealised gains and losses recognised in the income statement for financial instruments held at the end of the period 1,129 1,895 –72 134 3,086 Gains and losses recognised as return on capital during the period 1,129 1,895 –72 134 3,086 1) The definition of Level 3 is found in Note 22 Valuation categories. 104 ALECTA’S ANNUAL AND SUSTAINABILIT Y REPORT 2019 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Bonds and other debt NOTE 24 Shares and participations NOTE 25 securities 2019 2018 2019 2018 Group Fair value Cost Fair value Cost Fair Amortised Fair Amortised Swedish listed shares 175,467 103,011 143,306 106,635 Group and Parent Company value cost value cost Swedish unlisted shares 3,180 2,269 1,636 1,503 Swedish government 36,696 32,808 48,996 44,908 Foreign listed shares 246,273 165,984 187,021 160,390 Swedish mortgage bonds 77,486 77,168 56,822 56,423 Foreign unlisted shares 29,837 25,457 20,275 16,473 Other Swedish issuers 69,661 68,756 92,738 92,124 Total 454,757 296,721 352,238 285,001 Foreign governments 159,038 148,220 131,577 125,089 Other foreign issuers 73,739 72,299 75,354 69,758 Parent Company Total 416,620 399,251 405,487 388,302 Swedish listed shares 175,467 103,011 143,306 106,635 Swedish unlisted shares 3,180 2,269 1,636 1,503 The fair value of debt securities exceeds or is lower than the amount payable Foreign listed shares 246,273 165,984 187,021 160,390 on the due date by SEK 26,917 million (20,289) and SEK 152 million (786), Foreign unlisted shares 29,288 25,089 19,764 16,118 respectively. The items Swedish government and Foreign governments also Total 454,208 296,353 351,727 284,646 include state-guaranteed holdings. A list of all shares is available at alecta.se Group and Parent Company 2019 2018 Accounting principle Fixed-rate term 0–1 years 130,473 133,689 Shares and participations are measured at fair value through profit or loss >1–5 years 128,205 143,465 on initial recognition. Valuation techniques for shares and participations are described in Note 22. Accumulated changes in value for shares comprise >5–10 years 100,514 85,633 the difference between cost and fair value. Dividends are accounted for as >10 years 57,428 42,700 dividends received in the item Return on capital, income (Note 5). Total 416,620 405,487 Accounting principle Bonds and other debt securities are measured at fair value through profit or loss on initial recognition. Valuation techniques for bonds and other debt securities are described in Note 22. Accumulated changes in value for debt instruments comprise the difference between amortised cost and fair value. Amortised cost refers to future payments discounted to present value at the effective interest rate. The effective interest is the interest that is accrued over the term of the financial instrument. The calculation takes account of any premiums or discounts at acquisition that have been allocated over the remaining term of the instrument. Accruals of premiums and discounts, accrued interest income and coupon payments received are recognised as interest income in the item Return on capital, income. ALECTA’S ANNUAL AND SUSTAINABILIT Y REPORT 2019 105 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS NOTE 26 Loans secured by real estate NOTE 28 Derivatives 2019 2018 2019 2018 Group and Parent Company Fair value Cost Fair value Cost Fair value Fair value Swedish loans secured by Group and Parent Nominal Nominal real estate 2,409 2,371 312 312 Company value Assets Liabilities value Assets Liabilities Foreign loans secured Equity-related by real estate 2,074 2,074 2,465 2,465 instruments –11,720 – – –5,862 – – Total 4,483 4,445 2,777 2,777 Futures –11,720 – – –5,862 – – Fixed-income instruments 180,175 3,885 8,495 138,742 3,608 6,828 Accounting principle Swaps 1) 164,109 3,885 8,495 145,762 3,608 6,828 Swedish loans secured by real estate are primarily measured at fair value. Futures 16,066 – – –7,020 – – Foreign loans secured by real estate are measured at amortised cost in Currency-related accordance with the effective interest method. instruments 328,109 8,870 3,880 282,573 2,233 2,311 During the 2018–2021 period, a temporary exception will be made from Futures/swaps 328,109 8,870 3,880 282,573 2,233 2,311 the IFRS 9 Financial Instruments accounting standard, disclosures are made Total 496,564 12,755 12,375 415,453 5,841 9,139 to facilitate comparison with companies that apply IFRS 9. The disclosures 1) Nominal amount for 2018 has been adjusted from 136,780 till 145,762 are intended to emulate the groupings made when IFRS 9 is applied without, however, constituting a full application of the regulatory framework. When assessing provisioning requirements for expected credit losses, Alecta uses The management of collateral for derivatives is described in Note 29 Finana three-stage approach. Stage 1 pertains to assets for which the credit risk cial instruments subject to enforceable master netting agreements. has not increased significantly since initial recognition, with recognition of a 12-month ECL that is associated with the risk of default in the next 12 months. For a description of the use of derivatives, refer to the Market risk section in Stage 2 pertains to assets for which the credit risk has increased significantly Note 3 Risks and risk management. since initial recognition, with no underperformance since initial recognition. In order to determine whether there has been a significant increase in credit risk, the probability of a default at the reporting date is compared with the Accounting principle probability of a default at the date of initial recognition. Stage 3 pertains to A derivative is a financial instrument whose value is based on the perforcredit impaired assets and these are assessed individually. For Stages 1 and 2, mance of an underlying instrument. Alecta uses derivatives to improve the a provision for expected credit loss is based on the residual life of the asset. efficiency of the management of its assets and to reduce financial risks. DeWhen calculating the provision for credit losses under IFRS 9, Alecta takes rivatives are classified as held for trade and recognised in the balance sheet historical credit loss experience and various forward-looking scenarios into at fair value, while changes in value are recognised through profit or loss. account. The assessment is that adoption of the standard would not have Derivatives with positive fair values are recognised as financial investment any significant effect on Alecta’s financial statements. assets while derivatives with negative fair values are recognised as liabilities in the balance sheet. In the income statement, derivatives are accounted for together with the underlying instrument and the net gain or loss is presented in Note 20. Alecta does not apply hedge accounting. NOTE 27 Other loans 2019 2018 Fair Fair Group and Parent Company value Cost value Cost Other loans, Swedish 3,516 3,521 1,071 1,025 Other loans, foreign 2,928 2,545 2,062 1,581 Total 6,444 6,066 3,133 2,606 Accounting principle Alecta’s other loans consist mainly of real estate-related profit participating loans. Participating loans are classified as financial assets at fair value through profit or loss. 106 ALECTA’S ANNUAL AND SUSTAINABILIT Y REPORT 2019 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS NOTE 29 Financial instruments subject to enforceable master netting agreements of which amounts are not netted Group and Parent Company Financial assets but which are subject to enforceable recognised in the master netting agreements or similar Financial collateral Cash collateral 31 Dec 2019 balance sheet agreements in the event of insolvency received received Net amount 3) Assets Derivatives 4) 15,940 –10,361 – –6,764 0 Securities lending 1) 24,351 – –24,856 – 0 of which amounts are not netted Financial liabilities but which are subject to enforceable recognised in the master netting agreements or similar Financial collateral Cash collateral balance sheet agreements in the event of insolvency pledged 2) pledged Net amount 3) Liabilities Derivatives 4) 15,555 –10,361 –1,322 –6,170 0 of which amounts are not netted Group and Parent Company Financial assets but which are subject to enforceable recognised in the master netting agreements or similar Financial collateral Cash collateral 31 Dec 2018 balance sheet agreements in the event of insolvency received received Net amount 3) Assets Derivatives 4) 8,497 –7,459 –46 –2,069 0 Securities lending 1) 22,995 – –23,456 – 0 of which amounts are not netted Financial liabilities but which are subject to enforceable recognised in the master netting agreements or similar Financial collateral Cash collateral balance sheet agreements in the event of insolvency pledged 2) pledged Net amount 3) Liabilities Derivatives 4) 11,973 –7,459 –5,986 –512 0 1) Lending of debt securities is described in Note 45 Transfer of financial assets. 2) Collateral pledged is also presented in Note 44 Other pledged assets and comparable collateral. 3) In accordance with IFRS 7, the net amount can never be less than 0. 4) The amounts include accrued interest income of SEK 3,185 million (2,656) and accrued interest expenses of SEK 3,179 million (2,834). Disclosures on financial instruments subject to enforceable master Derivatives netting agreements At 31 December Alecta had derivatives with a positive value of SEK 15,940 The purpose of this Note is to provide information on Alecta’s ability to settle million and derivatives with a negative value of SEK 15,555 million. All derivaassets and liabilities on a net basis (netting) in the event of the insolvency of tives are subject to ISDA Master Agreements, under which the parties have either party, and on the collateral that has been exchanged for the net asset/ a legally enforceable right to set off the recognised amounts in the event of liability which remains between the parties after netting. insolvency. If there is no insolvency situation, the amounts are not netted. Derivatives and loaned debt securities are reported on a gross basis in the In addition to having the right to settle on a net basis, Alecta has concluded balance sheet. These financial instruments are subject to enforceable master CSA agreements which regulate the daily exchange of collateral during the netting agreements in the event of the insolvency of either party. All values in term of the contracts. From those counterparties for which the sum of all the table above are stated at fair value. derivatives is positive, Alecta obtains corresponding collateral, and in cases where the sum of all derivatives is negative Alecta provides corresponding collateral. Under these CSA agreements, Alecta has received SEK 6,764 million in debt securities in the form of Swedish cash in cases where the sum of all derivatives is positive. Similarly, Alecta has pledged SEK 1,322 million in debt securities in the form of Swedish mortgage bonds, and French government bonds, and SEK 6,170 million in cash in cases where the sum of all derivatives is negative. ALECTA’S ANNUAL AND SUSTAINABILIT Y REPORT 2019 107 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Receivables related to direct Accrued interest and NOTE 30 insurance operations NOTE 32 rental income Group Parent Company Group and Parent Company 2019 2018 2019 2018 2019 2018 Receivables from policy holders 2,549 1,726 Accrued interest income 8,982 8,031 8,990 8,031 Total 2,549 1,726 Total 8,982 8,031 8,990 8,031 Refers mainly to a receivable from Collectum, which handles Alecta’s receivables from insurance customers in the defined benefit plan. Accounting principle Prepaid expenses and accrued income Prepaid expenses and accrued income comprise expenditure for future Accounting principle financial years and income earned during the financial year that has not been Receivables related to direct insurance operations are received or invoiced at the balance sheet date. Alecta’s prepaid expenses and recognised at amortised cost. accrued income mainly comprise interest receivables not yet due for investment assets. NOTE 31 Other receivables Group 2019 2018 Payment receivables from sale of investment assets 1,492 29 Approved dividend 78 66 Value-added tax 40 81 Receivable, PRI Pensionsgaranti 201 193 Collateral pledged for derivatives 1) 6,170 512 Other 209 165 Total 8,190 1,046 Parent Company Payment receivables from sale of investment assets 1,492 29 Swedish tax 68 30 Foreign tax 1,020 844 Deferred tax 2) 2,164 5,510 Approved dividend 78 66 Value-added tax 0 0 Receivable from subsidiary 892 1,129 Receivable, PRI Pensionsgaranti 201 193 Collateral pledged for derivatives 1) 6,170 512 Other 82 121 Total 12,167 8,434 1)  See also Note 29. 2)  See also Note 12. Accounting principle Other receivables are recognised at amortised cost. 108 ALECTA’S ANNUAL AND SUSTAINABILIT Y REPORT 2019 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS NOTE 33 Equity Retained earnings Discretionary including net Translation participation Special indexation profit/loss for Group reserve features reserve 1) funds 2) the year Total Opening balance 2018 129 89,388 10,298 255,787 355,602 Net profit/loss for the year – – – –26,839 –26,839 Allocated refunds Defined benefit plan – 15,751 – –15,751 – Defined contribution plan – 1,162 – –1,162 – Guaranteed refunds Pension supplements, defined benefit plan – –2,390 – – –2,390 Supplementary amounts, defined contribution plan – –156 – – –156 Adjustment of paid-up values, defined benefit plan – –4,841 – –1,468 –6,309 Premium reduction – –4,202 – – –4,202 Collective risk premium 3) – – –116 – –116 Other changes Fees – – 6 –6 – Interest – 290 –47 –243 – Effect of changes in market interest rates – 126 – –126 – Effect of changes in assumptions – 141 – –141 – Exchange rate fluctuations for the period 150 – – – 150 Other 4) – –549 21 211 –317 Closing balance 2018 279 94,720 10,162 210,262 315,423 Opening balance 2019 279 94,720 10,162 210,262 315,423 Net profit/loss for the year – – – 93,306 93,306 Allocated refunds Defined benefit plan – 12,915 – –12,915 – Defined contribution plan – 24,908 – –24,908 – Guaranteed refunds Pension supplements, defined benefit plan – –2,676 – – –2,676 Supplementary amounts, defined contribution plan – –167 – – –167 Adjustment of paid-up values, defined benefit plan – –5,560 – –1,663 –7,223 Premium reduction – –4,472 – – –4,472 Collective risk premium 3) – – –122 – –122 Other changes Fees – – 21 –21 – Interest – 236 –10 –225 1 Effect of changes in market interest rates – 661 – –661 – Effect of changes in assumptions – –40 – 40 – Exchange rate fluctuations for the period 29 – – – 29 Other 4) – –836 – 132 –704 Closing balance 2019 308 119,689 10,051 263,347 393,395 1)  Funds which have been allocated to Alecta’s insureds and policy holders under various discretionary resolutions. These funds constitute a part of Alecta’s risk capital and are not guaranteed until assigned. Formally, Alecta can claw back the funds. SEK 1,468 million (1,468) of a total of SEK 119,689 million (94,720) refers to funds intended to cover the cost of measures forming part of the ITP plan, under which the parties to the collective agreement have the right to decide how the funds are used. The decision on the final use of the funds is made by Alecta’s Board of Directors, provided that the Board unanimously agrees that the designated use is consistent with Alecta’s interests as an insurance company. 2)  Funds contributed to Alecta for indexation of pensions or for other pension-promoting purposes or, alternatively, to be transferred to a foundation designed for indexation of pensions. The Council of Administration decides how the funds should be used. 3)  Premiums for waiver of premium insurance and collective final payments have been reduced as a result of the increase in employers’ expenses resulting from the rules for coordination and calculation of pensionable salaries introduced by the parties to ITP 2 in 2008. 4) The item comprises cumulative return, inheritance gains and portfolio changes. ALECTA’S ANNUAL AND SUSTAINABILIT Y REPORT 2019 109 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS NOTE 33 Equity, cont. Accounting principle Translation reserve Balance sheets of foreign subsidiaries are translated at the closing rates at that the Board unanimously agrees that the designated use is consistent the balance sheet date and income statements of foreign subsidiaries are with Alecta’s interests as an insurance company. The allocation of surpluses translated at the average exchange rate for the year. Foreign exchange differis regulated in the Company’s funding policy in the actuarial guidelines. As ences arising on translation are recognised in Other comprehensive income the surplus is preliminary and not guaranteed, it is regarded as risk capital and transferred to the Group’s translation reserve. Currencies that have been and is included in the Company’s funding reserve. The surplus is allocated in translated are US dollars. conjunction with payment under the applicable internal regulations and is recognised directly in equity. Discretionary participation features reserve The discretionary participation features reserve in equity consists of refunds Special indexation funds to policy holders and insureds that have been allocated on a preliminary Special indexation funds are funds contributed to Alecta for indexation of basis. Allocated refunds to the insureds include pension supplements and pensions in payment and for other pension-promoting purposes or, alternaadjustments of paid-up values for defined benefit pension products as well tively, to be transferred to a foundation designed for indexation of pensions. as refunds for defined contribution insurance that have been allocated on a Decisions on the use of the funds for these purposes are made by the Council preliminary basis. Allocated refunds to policy holders comprise a premium of Administration. Special indexation funds are not included in collective reduction for risk insurance. Allocated refunds to policy holders and the funding capital. Change items are recognised directly in equity. insureds also include funds intended to cover the cost of measures forming part of the ITP plan, under which the parties to the collective agreement have Retained earnings including net profit/loss for the year been given the right to indicate how the funds should be used. The decision This item includes collective funding and net profit/loss for the year. on the final use of the funds is made by Alecta’s Board of Directors, provided Collective funding includes other risk capital, which is not allocated. 110 ALECTA’S ANNUAL AND SUSTAINABILIT Y REPORT 2019 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS NOTE 34 Surplus fund Discretionary participation features reserve Other reserves Allocated refunds to insureds Special indexation Parent Company Collective funding and policyholders 1) funds 2) Total Opening balance 2018 194,894 89,388 10,298 294,580 Appropriation of profits from previous years 55,341 – 55,341 Allocated refunds Defined benefit plan –15,751 15,751 – – Defined contribution plan –1,162 1,162 – – Guaranteed refunds Pension supplements, defined benefit plan – –2,390 – –2,390 Supplementary amounts, defined contribution plan – –156 – –156 Adjustment of paid-up values, defined benefit plan –1,468 –4,841 – –6,309 Premium reduction – –4,202 – –4,202 Fees –6 – 6 – Interest –243 290 –47 – Collective risk premium 3) – – –116 –116 Effect of changes in market interest rates –126 126 – – Effect of changes in assumptions –141 141 – – Other changes 4) 208 –549 20 –320 Closing balance 2018 231,546 94,720 10,161 336,427 Opening balance 2019 231,546 94,720 10,161 336,427 Appropriation of profits from previous years –27,609 – –27,609 Allocated refunds Defined benefit plan –12,915 12,915 – – Defined contribution plan –24,908 24,908 – – Guaranteed refunds Pension supplements, defined benefit plan – –2,676 – –2,676 Supplementary amounts, defined contribution plan – –167 – –167 Adjustment of paid-up values, defined benefit plan –1,663 –5,560 – –7,223 Premium reduction – –4,472 – –4,472 Fees –21 – 21 – Interest –225 236 –10 1 Collective risk premium 3) – – –121 –121 Effect of changes in market interest rates –661 661 – – Effect of changes in assumptions 40 –40 – – Other changes 4) 134 –835 – –701 Closing balance 2019 163,718 119,690 10,051 293,459 1)  Funds which have been allocated to Alecta’s insureds and policy holders under various discretionary resolutions. These funds constitute a part of Alecta’s risk capital and are not guaranteed until assigned. Formally, Alecta can claw back the funds. SEK 1,468 million (1,468) of a total of SEK 119,690 million (94,720) refers to funds intended to cover the cost of measures forming part of the ITP plan, under which the parties to the collective agreement have the right to decide how the funds are used. The decision on the final use of the funds is made by Alecta’s Board of Directors, provided that the Board unanimously agrees that the designated use is consistent with Alecta’s interests as an insurance company. 2)  Funds contributed to Alecta for indexation of pensions or for other pension-promoting purposes or, alternatively, to be transferred to a foundation designed for indexation of pensions. The Council of Administration decides how the funds should be used. 3)  Premiums for waiver of premium insurance and collective final payments have been reduced as a result of the increase in employers’ expenses resulting from the rules for coordination and calculation of pensionable salaries introduced by the parties to ITP 2 in 2008. 4) The item comprises cumulative return, inheritance gains and portfolio changes. Accounting principle Surplus fund NOTE 35 Proposed appropriation of profits Life insurance companies which do not have the right to distribute profits are required to maintain a surplus fund to which funds are allocated that can The Board of Directors and Chief Executive Officer propose to the Counbe used to cover losses. If permitted by the articles of association, the fund cil of Administration that the Parent Company’s profit for 2019 of SEK may also be used for other purposes. The surplus fund is part of equity and 92,469,545,106 be transferred to the surplus fund. The Board and CEO consists of collective funding, the discretionary participation features reserve propose that the Council of Administration approve the resolution of the and other reserves. Board regarding refunds as set forth in the section Distribution of surplus in the Administration Report on page 61. See also Proposed appropriation of profits in Administration Report on page 62. ALECTA’S ANNUAL AND SUSTAINABILIT Y REPORT 2019 111 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS NOTE 36 Provision for life insurance Group and Parent Company 2019 2018 EXPECTED DISCOUNTED NET CASH OUTFLOW FOR RETIREMENT PENSION, FAMILY PENSION AND ORIGINAL ITPK Opening balance 495,679 461,572 Change for the year 42,538 37,964 SEK billion Premiums 45,993 41,821 120,000 Payments –17,631 –16,943 100,000 Cumulative returns 15,104 14,712 Released operating expenses –581 –627 80,000 Yield tax –667 –614 Mortality result 234 84 60,000 Other changes 86 –469 Change in interest rate assumption 28,089 8,349 40,000 Difference between premium and TP assumptions –14,737 –16,922 Change in operating expenses assumption – –3,075 20,000 Changed assumption for yield tax – 7,791 0 Change in reduction factors –1,460 – year 0-5 5-10 10-15 15-20 20-25 25-30 30-35 35-40 40-45 45-50 50-55 55-60 60-65 Changed assumption for mortality 6,671 – Closing balance 556,780 495,679 Accounting principle The following assumptions have been applied in calculating the provision Provision for life insurance for life insurance at 31 December 2019: The provision for life insurance is calculated as the capital value of expected guaranteed future pension payments, operating expenses, yield tax and • Interest rate assumption: The average rate of interest was 1.81 per cent contractual future premiums. (2.16) at 31 December 2019. The method of determining this rate is described in Note 3. Change in the provision for life insurance • Mortality assumption: In 2019, a review of the cohort mortality rates The change in the provision for life insurance reflects actual events during applied was conducted and new mortality assumptions were introduced the period, such as premium payments received or outgoing payments made at 31 Dec 2019. The life expectancy of a 65-year-old man increased from in conjunction with an insured event. The provision for life insurance is also 22.2 years to 22.8 years due to the change. The remaining life expectancy adjusted by the period’s cumulative returns, assumed operating expenses, for a 65-year-old woman remained unchanged at 23.9 years. The change mortality results and the exercise of the right to switch pension providers, increased the life provision by SEK 6,671 million. and by the amount of paid-up policies. In addition, the provision for life • Family pension assumption: Gender-dependent assumptions on family insurance is affected by any changes to the method of calculation and the ascomposition are applied. sumptions applied. Examples of assumptions used in calculating the provision • Operating expenses assumption: Future operating expenses are considered for life insurance are the discount rate, mortality and operating expenses. to comprise the present value of future expected expenses including cost Changes in the provisions are recognised as an income and expense item in increases due to inflation. Operating expenses are also recognised in conthe income statement. nection with premium payments. • Deduction for yield tax: Future yield tax is considered to comprise the present value of the yield tax that Alecta is expected to pay on assets representing the present value of guaranteed commitments. The load for yield tax is 0.12 per cent, corresponding to 15 per cent of the discount rate with a maturity of 15 years. Interest rate sensitivity • For longer tenors, a fixed forward rate has been applied, which means that the average interest rate does not fluctuate as much as long-term market rates. If market rates were to fall by 1 percentage point, the average interest rate would fall by 0.3 percentage points and the provision for life insurance would increase by SEK 27.0 billion (42.6). 112 ALECTA’S ANNUAL AND SUSTAINABILIT Y REPORT 2019 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS NOTE 37 Provision for claims outstanding Group and Parent Company 2019 2018 Accounting principle Opening balance 17,470 17,242 Provision for claims outstanding Change for the year –75 144 The provision for claims outstanding is intended to cover future costs for Provision for new claims 6,415 6,234 insurance claims arising from incapacity to work. The technical provision is Discontinuation income –3,242 –2,907 determined when the right to compensation arises. A portion of the proviPayments –3,285 –3,241 sion for claims outstanding relates to claims incurred but not reported and Cumulative returns 137 194 is based exclusively on the company’s experience of the backlog of reported Released operating expenses –54 –56 cases of illness, which does not normally extend beyond one year. Other changes –46 –80 Change in interest rate assumption 448 85 Change in provision for claims outstanding The calculation of the provision for claims outstanding is based on Alecta’s Changed assumption for morbidity –3,776 – insurance portfolio and on actuarial assumptions made on the basis of Changed assumption for unknown claims –213 – Alecta’s actuarial calculation data. Changes in the portfolio or in the assumpClosing balance 13,854 17,470 tions lead to a change in the provision for claims outstanding. Such changes are recognised as an income or expense item in the income statement. The following assumptions have been used in calculating, as at 31 December 2019, the provision for claims outstanding in respect of disability pension and waiver of premium, which comprise the dominant portion of the provision: • Interest rate assumption: The rate of interest was 0.52 per cent (1.03) at 31 Provision for pensions and similar December 2019. The method of determining this rate is described in Note 3. • Morbidity assumption: Assumptions regarding the probability of remaining ill NOTE 38 obligations at a given point in time and regarding changes in benefit levels and the degree of incapacity for work. In 2019, the assumptions that were applied regardGroup Parent Company ing the probability of remaining ill were reviewed and new assumptions were 2019 2018 2019 2018 introduced at 31 December 2019. The change reduced the expected period Provision for pensions 0 2 0 2 of illness and the provision was reduced by SEK 3,776 million. Total 0 2 0 2 • Operating expenses assumption: Future operating expenses have been taken into account in the form of a supplement for expected pension payments. The provision for pensions is largely attributable to employees born in 1955 Operating expenses are also recorded in conjunction with premium payor earlier, who are entitled to retire on their own initiative from the age of ments. 62 under the terms of the FTP agreement. See Note 1 and Note 48. • Indexation: It is assumed that benefits linked to changes in the price basic amount and income basic amount (guaranteed indexation) will increase annually by 2 per cent and 3 per cent, respectively. Accounting principle All pension plans in the Group are recognised as defined contribution plans. Interest rate sensitivity The FTP Agreement provides an option for employees born in 1955 or earlier • If market rates fall by 1 percentage point, the provision increases by to retire on their own initiative with effect from the month after they turn SEK 0.2 billion (0.5). 62. If this option is exercised, Alecta will pay a single premium to cover the additional retirement benefits. An unfunded provision equal to 100 per cent of the expected premium is made for employees who have notified Alecta EXPECTED DISCOUNTED NET CASH OUTFLOW FOR that they intend to exercise this option. For other employees who have the DISABILITY INSURANCE AND WAIVER OF PREMIUM INSURANCE opportunity to retire early, an unfunded provision is made based on the assumptions that the benefit will be earned on a straight-line basis up to the SEK billion age of 62 and that 60 per cent (60) of employees will exercise the option. 9,000 8,000 7,000 6,000 5,000 4,000 3,000 2,000 1,000 0 year 0-5 5-10 10-15 15-20 20-25 25-30 30-35 35-40 ALECTA’S ANNUAL AND SUSTAINABILIT Y REPORT 2019 113 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS NOTE 39 Other provisions NOTE 41 Other liabilities Group Parent Company Group 2019 2018 2019 2018 2019 2018 Payment liability on purchase of investment assets 71 554 Indexation of pensions for Collateral received for derivatives 1) 6,764 2,069 former employees 1 1 1 1 Accounts payable 274 238 Provision for real estate 14 8 3 2 Property tax 123 97 Total 15 9 4 3 Value-added tax 25 4 Lease liability 2) 34 – Accounting principle Other 44 37 Total 7,335 2,999 A provision is a liability that is uncertain in terms of its due date and/or amount. A provision is recognised in the balance sheet when an existing obligation arises as a result of a past event, and it is probable that an outflow All liabilities mature within one year after the balance sheet date, except for of resources will be required to settle the obligation and that the amount the lease liability which is long-term. See also Note 50. can be reliably estimated. An obligation can be legal or constructive. If these Parent Company 2019 2018 criteria are not met, no provision is recognised in the balance sheet. Instead, a contingent liability will arise, if the criteria for a contingent liability are met. Liabilities to subsidiaries 2,441 1,573 Provisions are reviewed at each closing date. Provisions are used only for the Payment liability on purchase of investment assets 71 554 expenditure for which the provision was originally intended. Collateral received for derivatives 1) 6,764 2,069 Accounts payable 258 171 Property tax 49 46 Value-added tax 6 4 Other 21 23 Total 9,610 4,440 Liabilities related to direct 1) See also Note 28. NOTE 40 See also Notes 15 and 50. 2) insurance operations Group and Parent Company 2019 2018 Liabilities to policy holders 9 6 Preliminary tax, pensions 746 716 Other 10 10 Other accrued expenses and Total 765 732 NOTE 42 deferred income Group Parent Company Accounting principle 2019 2018 2019 2018 Liabilities related to direct insurance operations are recognised at Accrued interest expense 4,914 4,439 4,914 4,439 amortised cost. Accrued property costs 115 82 82 56 Accrued personnel costs 82 96 80 93 Prepaid rental income 401 383 133 142 Other 34 19 30 19 Total 5,546 5,019 5,239 4,749 Accounting principle Accrued expenses and deferred income comprise expenses for the financial year that have been incurred by the business but have not been paid or invoiced at the balance sheet date, and income that has been paid or invoiced but has not been earned at the balance sheet date. Alecta’s accrued expenses and deferred income mainly relate to property costs, rental income, personnel costs and interest expenses for currency swaps. 114 ALECTA’S ANNUAL AND SUSTAINABILIT Y REPORT 2019 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Assets and comparable collateral pledged for own liabilities and for obligations reported as NOTE 43 provisions NOTE 45 Transfers of financial assets Group and Parent Company 2019 2018 Group and Parent Company 2019 2018 Assets registered on behalf of policy holders 944,870 803,574 Loaned debt securities 24,351 22,995 in addition to required pledge 342,279 287,628 Collateral received for loaned securities 24,856 23,456 944,870 803,574 Land and buildings 24,202 23,025 Shares and participations in associated companies and Accounting principle joint ventures 33,449 22,597 Loaned debt securities consist of Swedish and French government bonds, Loans to associated companies and joint ventures 334 1,859 which are recognised at fair value in the balance sheet, in accordance with Shares and participations 454,208 351,727 the applicable accounting principles. Collateral received for loaned debt secuBonds and other debt securities 418,060 398,946 rities consists of Swedish and Danish covered bonds and are not recognised Loans secured by real estate 4,506 2,794 in the balance sheet. Compensation received for loaned debt securities has Other loans 6,446 3,133 been recognised as interest income in the item Capital return, income, see Derivatives 384 –3,477 Note 5. Cash and bank balances 3,281 2,970 Total 944,870 803,574 The table above shows assets that have been registered for debt coverage under Regulation FFFS 2011:20 of the Swedish Financial Supervisory Authority. NOTE 46 Contingent liabilities Group 2019 2018 Remaining balance to be invested in investment assets 30,016 15,622 Other pledged assets and Guarantee commitments 631 709 NOTE 44 comparable collateral Total 30,647 16,331 Parent Company Group and Parent Company 2019 2018 Remaining balance to be invested in investment assets 29,831 15,614 Collateral pledged to clearing houses for derivatives Liabilities in limited partnerships 87 97 trading Total 29,918 15,711 Bonds and other debt securities 3,013 2,460 Cash and bank balances 432 62 Collateral pledged for derivatives trading in Contingent liabilities is a generic term for guarantees, financial commitments accordance with CSA contracts and obligations that are not included in the balance sheet. Bonds and other debt securities 489 5,748 Remaining balance to be invested in investment assets refers to an obligaCash and bank balances 6,143 511 tion to inject capital, if requested, into unlisted real estate-related investTotal 10,077 8,781 ments and unlisted fixed-income investments. The majority of Alecta’s guarantee commitments refer to loans in connecCollateral pledged for derivatives trading in accordance with CSA contracts is tion with the development of tenant-owner apartments. described in Note 29 Financial instruments subject to enforceable master In the course of its normal business operations Alecta is party to several netting agreements. disputes, most of which relate to minor amounts. Alecta does not expect these disputes to have a material adverse impact on the Group’s financial position. ALECTA’S ANNUAL AND SUSTAINABILIT Y REPORT 2019 115 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS NOTE 47 Reconciliation of total return table to financial statements Group 2019 2018 Group 2019 2018 Market value according to total return table 1) 962,678 823,932 Total return according to total return table 122,942 –18,300 Assets not classified as investments 4,294 7,482 Items from the income statement (Notes 5, 6, 9, 10) Items from the liabilities side of the balance sheet which which are not included in the total return table –447 –367 have been deducted in the total return table 24,848 16,852 Foreign exchange effects in foreign subsidiaries, Valuation differences –96 –155 recognised in equity in the financial statements –3 –152 Total assets according to balance sheet 991,724 848,111 Tax included in the total return table, classified as tax in the income statement 2,510 797 Other 29 –21 1) See page 58. Net return on capital according to income statement 2) 125,031 –18,043 2) Notes 5, 6, 9 and 10 in the income statement. NOTE 48 Average number of employees, salaries and remuneration 2019 2018 2019 2018 Average number of Number of Of whom Of whom Number of Of whom Of whom Gender distribution in senior positions Women Men Women Men employees 1) employees women men employees women men Parent Company Parent Company Board of Directors 5 7 5 8 Sweden 341 201 140 343 202 141 CEO – 1 – 1 Total, Parent Company 341 201 140 343 202 141 Other senior executives 4 4 3 6 Subsidiaries Total, Parent Company 9 12 8 15 Sweden 25 19 6 24 17 7 Subsidiaries Total, subsidiaries 25 19 6 24 17 7 Board of Directors 1 8 1 6 Total, Group 366 220 146 367 219 148 Total, subsidiaries 1 8 1 6 Total, Group 10 20 9 21 Salaries, remuneration and fees paid to the CEO, senior executives, Directors and other employees 2) 2019 2018 Salaries, fees Salaries, fees and other Social security and other Social security kSEK remuneration contributions Pension costs Total remuneration contributions Pension costs Total Parent Company CEO and senior executives 3) 24,305 11,654 7,661 43,620 23,558 9,216 7,479 40,253 Board of Directors 4) 3,152 862 – 4,014 3,077 833 – 3,910 Other employees 243,258 78,724 46,774 368,756 229,867 70,064 49,684 349,615 Total, Parent Company 270,715 91,240 54,435 416,390 256,502 80,113 57,163 393,778 Subsidiaries Other employees 10,911 3,637 940 15,488 11,073 3,690 972 15,735 Total, subsidiaries 10,911 3,637 940 15,488 11,073 3,690 972 15,735 Total, Group 281,626 94,877 55,375 431,878 267,575 83,803 58,135 409,513 1) Refers to the average number of employees, both full-time and part-time. 2) The Note shows salaries, remuneration and fees charged to expense in each financial year. 3) Consists of senior management for 2019. For the current composition of senior management, see pages 54–55. 4) Members of the Board receive Directors’ fees and fees for work on Board committees, which are determined by the Council of Administration. One Director also receives remuneration for nomination committee work. 116 ALECTA’S ANNUAL AND SUSTAINABILIT Y REPORT 2019 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS NOTE 48 Average number of employees, salaries and remuneration, cont. Salaries, remuneration, fees and benefits paid to senior executives and Directors 2019 Salaries, fees and other Variable Total Social security Pension kSEK remuneration 1) remuneration 1, 4) Benefits 3) remuneration contributions costs Parent Company CEO Magnus Billing 6,222 – 102 6,324 2,546 2,306 Deputy CEO Katarina Thorslund 2,438 – 16 2,454 909 568 Hans Sterte 4,880 – 3 4,883 1,988 1,870 Senior executives Senior executives 2) 10,627 – 17 10,644 4,052 2,917 Total, CEO and senior executives 24,167 – 138 24,305 9,495 7,661 Chairman of the Board Ingrid Bonde 5) 398 – – 398 125 – Other members of the Board Hanna Bisell 210 – – 210 66 – Cecilia Fahlberg Pihlgren 213 – – 213 67 – Markus Granlund 99 – – 99 31 – Petra Hedengran 195 – – 195 61 – Helena Hedlund 99 – – 99 31 – Jan-Olof Jacke 117 – – 117 37 – Magnus von Koch 195 – – 195 61 – Martin Linder 213 – – 213 67 – Richard Malmborg 195 – – 195 61 – Kaj Thorén 295 – – 295 30 – Anders Weihe 195 – – 195 61 – Members of the Board that have left Erik Åsbrink 309 – – 309 32 – Anna-Karin Hatt 97 – – 97 30 – Per Hedelin 111 – – 111 35 – Peter Jeppsson 97 – – 97 30 – Carola Lemne 114 – – 114 36 – Total, Board 3,152 – – 3,152 862 – Total, Parent Company 27,319 – 138 27,457 10,357 7,661 1) Salaries, fees, other remuneration and variable remuneration shown as total salaries, fees and other remuneration charged to expense in the financial year 2019. 2)  Other senior executives refer to six positions (seven), which together with the CEO and the Deputy CEO comprised Alecta’s senior management team. For the composition of senior management, see pages 54–55. The expense refers to those individuals who held a position as senior executive at some point during the year. 3) Typical benefits include a company car, attractive mortgage rates, household services and healthcare insurance. 4) Refers to variable remuneration under the Investment Management incentive scheme for which provisions have been made. A presentation of remuneration paid by Alecta, including variable remuneration, in accordance with the Swedish Financial Supervisory Authority’s Regulations and General Guidelines on Annual Reports of Insurance Undertakings (FFFS 2015:12) will be published on alecta.se in April 2020. 5) Assumed chairmanship at the Council of Administration’s meeting on 11 April 2019. ALECTA’S ANNUAL AND SUSTAINABILIT Y REPORT 2019 117 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS NOTE 48 Average number of employees, salaries and remuneration, cont. Salaries, remuneration, fees and benefits paid to senior executives and Directors 2018 Salaries, fees and other Variable Total Social security Pension kSEK remuneration 1) remuneration 1, 4) Benefits 3) remuneration contributions costs Parent Company CEO Magnus Billing 5,925 – 78 6,003 2,423 2,212 Deputy CEO Katarina Thorslund 2,402 – 13 2,415 889 537 Senior executives Senior executives 2) 14,948 190 2 15,140 5,904 4,730 Total, CEO and senior executives 23,275 190 93 23,558 9,216 7,479 Chairman of the Board Erik Åsbrink 609 – – 609 100 – Other members of the Board Hanna Bisell (previously Brandt Gonzalez) 190 – – 190 60 – Cecilia Fahlberg 225 – – 225 71 – Anna-Karin Hatt 190 – – 190 60 – Per Hedelin 219 – – 219 69 – Peter Jeppsson 190 – – 190 60 – Carola Lemne 114 – – 114 36 – Martin Linder 190 – – 190 60 – Petra Hedengran 190 – – 190 60 – Richard Malmborg 190 – – 190 60 – Anders Weihe 190 – – 190 60 – Kaj Thorén 280 – – 280 46 – Magnus von Koch 190 – – 190 60 – Other members of the Board that have left Christer Ågren 110 – – 110 35 – Total, Board 3,077 – – 3,077 833 – Total, Parent Company 26,352 190 93 26,635 10,049 7,479 1) Salaries, fees, other remuneration and variable remuneration shown as total salaries, fees and other remuneration charged to expense in the financial year 2018. 2)  Other senior executives refer to seven positions (seven), which together with the CEO and the Deputy CEO comprised Alecta’s senior management team in 2018. The expense refers to those individuals who held a position as senior executive at some point during the year. 3) Typical benefits include a company car, attractive mortgage rates, household services and healthcare insurance. 4) Refers to variable remuneration under the Investment Management incentive scheme for which provisions have been made. A presentation of remuneration paid by Alecta, including variable remuneration, in accordance with the Swedish Financial Supervisory Authority’s Regulations and General Guidelines on Annual Reports of Insurance Undertakings (FFFS 2015:12) was published on alecta.se in April 2019. 118 ALECTA’S ANNUAL AND SUSTAINABILIT Y REPORT 2019 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS NOTE 48 Average number of employees, salaries and remuneration, cont. Remuneration to Directors, CEO maximum payout of kSEK 12 per employee in the form of increased occupaand senior executives tional pension premiums. In 2019, two of the targets were fully achieved. The The Chairman and other members of the Board of Directors receive outcome per employee was kSEK 8 (4), representing a total cost for Alecta Directors’ fees in accordance with resolutions adopted by the Council of of approximately SEK 3 million (1), including social security contributions. Administration. The remuneration determined by the Council of AdministraThe Investment Management incentive scheme for employees in the Equity tion relates to the period until the next regular meeting of the Council of and Interest Management Department has an evaluation period of three Administration. The remuneration paid to the CEO and senior executives in years. The Board of Directors has defined caps for payouts as well as the 2019 comprised basic salary, other benefits, such as a company car, morttargets against which performance will be measured. Key factors determining gage interest benefits, healthcare insurance, household services, pension the outcome for variable remuneration are total return on investment assets, costs and social security contributions. return in relation to Alecta’s competitors and return from active manageThe remuneration of the CEO is determined by the Board and is reviewed ment in the asset classes shares and debt instruments. The outcome for each annually. The remuneration of senior executives is determined by the CEO individual also depends on the extent to which individually defined targets subject to approval by the Board of Directors. have been achieved. For 2019, a provision of SEK 4.4 million, excluding social Other senior executives refer to eight individuals who together with the security contributions, has been made for variable remuneration. For 2018, CEO have constituted Alecta’s management team. For the current composithe vested variable remuneration was SEK 2.1 million excluding social security tion of senior management, see pages 54–55. contributions. In accordance with the Swedish Financial Supervisory Authority’s General In the incentive scheme for subsidiaries engaged in restaurant and conferRegulations and General Guidelines on Annual Reports of Insurance Underence activities, SEK 0.2 million excluding social security contributions was takings (FFFS 2015:12), supplementary disclosures on remuneration will be vested for 2019. For 2018, the vested variable remuneration was SEK 0.5 million presented on Alecta’s website, alecta.se, in April 2020. excluding social security contributions. Pensions, severance pay and other benefits of the CEO, Pension plans deputy CEOs and other senior executives All employees of Alecta Pensionsförsäkring, ömsesidigt, who are based in The CEO has a pension agreement under which 35 per cent of the monthly Sweden are covered by an occupational pension plan, FTP 17. The plan consists salary is set aside each month for pensions, including contributions to the of two parts, FTP 1 and FTP 2. Employees born in 1972 or later are covered FTP plan. Any portion of the contribution which exceeds the contribution by FTP 1 while employees born in 1971 or earlier are covered by FTP 2. FTP 1 required for the FTP plan may be used for retirement pension, survivor’s covers defined contribution retirement pensions with or without repayment pension and/or disability pension, as decided by the CEO. The pensionable cover, family cover, disability pension and waiver of premium insurance. The age for the CEO is 65. The CEO’s employment contract is terminable on premium for retirement pension is 4.9 per cent of the gross salary on porsix months’ notice on the part of the company, in which case the CEO is tions of salary up to 7.5 times the income basic amount and 30.5 per cent on entitled to severance pay in the amount of twelve months’ salary. If a senior portions of salary in excess of 7.5 times the income basic amount. Employees executive takes up other employment, the amount of severance pay will be born in 1971 or earlier with a salary in excess of ten times the income basic reduced by any benefits received from such employment during the period amount can choose to be covered by FTP 1. FTP 2 is a defined benefit penof severance pay. The contract can be terminated by the CEO on six months’ sion plan, which means that the employee is guaranteed a pension defined notice. as a specific percentage of his or her final salary. FTP 2 includes retirement The Deputy CEOs are also covered by the FTP plan. The Deputy CEO pension, family pension, FTPK, disability pension, family cover, waiver of Katarina Thorslund is covered by a previous contract stipulating a notice pepremium insurance and a separate children’s pension. riod of 18 months, with any benefits received from other employment being Pension commitments are secured through payments of fixed insurance fully deductible from severance pay. The contract can be terminated by the premiums during the period of service. Under IAS 19, multi-employer defined Deputy CEO on six months’ notice. The Deputy CEO Hans Sterte is covered benefit pension plans should, as a rule, be recognised as defined benefit penby a mutual notice period of six months, with any benefits received being fully sion plans. If insufficient information is available to determine the employer’s deductible from severance pay. share of the obligations and plan assets, the pension plan should instead be Senior executives are covered by the FTP plan. Three executives are accounted for as if it were a defined contribution pension plan. Alecta accounts covered by FTP 2 and the remaining executives by FTP 1. Their contracts are for the whole FTP plan as a defined contribution plan, as the criteria for terminable on six months’ notice in case of termination by the Company and recognising the defined benefit components of the plan in accordance with provide for severance pay in the amount of twelve months’ salary. If a senior the main rule in IAS 19 are not met. This means that the expense is recogexecutive takes up other employment, the amount of severance pay will be nised when the benefits are earned. The total insurance premium for defined reduced by any benefits received from such employment during the period of benefit retirement and family pensions in FTP 2 was SEK 22.0 million in 2019 severance pay. Since early 2013 employees of Alecta have had the option of and is expected to reach SEK 18.2 million in 2020. The premium represents exchanging a part of their salary for occupational pension premiums. Salary approximately 0.10 per cent of the total premiums for defined benefit exchange is cost-neutral for Alecta. This option is available to all employees retirement and family pensions paid to Alecta by the client companies. of Alecta Pensionsförsäkring, ömsesidigt. Premiums are calculated on a per insured basis and for each type of benefit by applying Alecta’s assumptions on interest rates, operating expenses and Incentive schemes yield tax. In 2019, employees in the Equity and Interest Management and Investment Alecta’s collective funding ratio for defined benefit plans at the end of the Management departments and employees of a subsidiary which provides year was 148 per cent (142). The collective funding ratio is defined as the restaurant and conference services were covered by an incentive scheme. market value of Alecta’s assets as a percentage of its commitments to policy Alecta has been running a general variable pay incentive scheme covering all holders calculated using Alecta’s actuarial assumptions, which are not conemployees except senior management, employees of the Equity and Interest sistent with IAS 19. According to Alecta’s funding policy for defined benefit Management Department and employees of the Internal Audit, Risk and insurance products, the specific normal range for the collective funding ratio Compliance units. The outcome for the general incentive scheme is continis 125–175 per cent. gent on achievement of targets linked to the business plan for 2019, with a FTP 2 provides an option for employees born in 1955 or earlier to retire ALECTA’S ANNUAL AND SUSTAINABILIT Y REPORT 2019 119 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Average number of employees, NOTE 48 salaries and remuneration, cont. NOTE 50 Leases, cont. on their own initiative with effect from the month after they turn 62. The provision is recognised in the item Provision for pensions and similar obligaAccounting principle tions, see Note 38. Parent Company The subsidiaries have only defined contribution plans. These plans are The recognition of leases is treated in RFR 2 for the Parent Company. secured mainly through payments of insurance premiums by each Group According to RFR 2, legal entities do not need to apply the rules in IFRS 16. company and in some cases also by the employees. Some Group companies A company that is a lessee should recognise lease payments as an expense also provide various forms of healthcare insurance. over the lease term on a straight-line basis, unless another systematic basis is more representative of the time pattern of the user’s benefit. That also Provision for pensions applies if the payments are allocated differently. The right-of-use asset and In the Parent Company, the calculation of the provision for pensions for corresponding lease liability should not therefore be recognised in the balAlecta’s employees is made in compliance with the Swedish Pension Obligaance sheet. tions Vesting Act and based on assumptions provided for in Regulation FFFS 2007:31 of the Swedish Financial Supervisory Authority. Changed accounting principles for the Group On transition to IFRS 16, the Group recognises lease liabilities attributable Fee to lay auditors to lease contracts previously classified as operating leases based on IAS 17 The lay auditors receive fees in accordance with resolutions adopted by the Leases. These liabilities have been measured at the present value of future Council of Administration. In 2019, fees amounted to kSEK 122 (118). minimum lease payments. IFRS 16 – Information about the transition at 1 January 2019 Operating lease obligations at 31 December 2018 20.7 Discount rate effect 29.0 Operating lease at 31 December (discounted) 49.7 NOTE 49 Disclosure of auditors’ fees Adjusted for Less: lease contracts for which the underlying asset is of low value and expensed on a straight-line basis –20.7 Group Parent Company Less: contracts not considered material under IAS 1 p.31 –9.0 2019 2018 2019 2018 Less: site and land leaseholds later than one year but within five years –18.6 EY Statutory audit 3.7 3.6 3.7 3.6 Remaining: lease contracts that are covered by IFRS 16 and will be Audit activities not included discounted. Pertains to site and land leaseholds 1.4 in statutory audit 0.3 0.4 0.3 0.4 Discounting of future site and land leaseholds with an Tax advisory services 0.9 2.0 – 0.4 estimated market rate of 4.71 % 29.2 Other services – 0.3 – 0.2 Total, EY 4.9 6.3 4.0 4.6 Lease liability recognised at 1 January 2019 29.2 Site and land leaseholds are treated as perpetual leases, which are measured at market value and not therefore amortised. The market value is calculated by discounting future site and land leasehold payments using an estimated market rate based on direct return as a percentage for each property. As of NOTE 50 Leases 1 January 2019, site and land leasehold payments have been recognised as interest expense. Alecta has entered into leases for site and land leaseholds, premises, office equipment and cars. The due dates for the sum of future minimum lease payGroup 2019 2018 ments under non-cancellable leases at 31 December are indicated below. Balance Sheet Land and buildings, right of use 34 – Group Parent Company Other liabilities, lease liability –34 – Expiration 2019 2018 2019 2018 Within one year – 7.4 3.7 3.0 Income Statement Later than one year but Interest expense, leases 1 – within five years – 13.3 7.4 6.1 Later than five years – – – – Site and land leaseholds are not amortised. Total – 20.7 11.1 9.1 Total lease payments during period – 13.4 6.6 5.5 of which minimum lease payments – 13.4 6.6 5.5 Rental contracts outside Sweden are sublet until September 2020, when the contract expires. The lease income was SEK 3.0 million (2.7) in 2019 and is estimated at SEK 2.3 million (2.8) within one year. 120 ALECTA’S ANNUAL AND SUSTAINABILIT Y REPORT 2019 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS NOTE 51 Related party disclosures This Note contains descriptions of transactions between Alecta and related Information on transactions between the Parent Company, Alecta Pensionsförsäkring, ömsesidigt, and related parties parties, as defined in IAS 24 Related Party Disclosures. Alecta considers the Payments received Payments made following legal entities and physical persons to be related parties according Related parties 2019 2018 2019 2018 to this definition: 1) Group company • all companies in the Alecta Group • members of the Board, senior management and managers of central Interest income 133 114 – – functions Share of profit 111 917 – – • close family members of the Board of Directors and management team Management fee 8 9 – – • The Confederation of Swedish Enterprise, PTK and their member Dividends 934 35 – – organisations/unions Shareholder contributions • associated companies and joint ventures. provided – – 841 – Associated companies and joint ventures Transactions with related parties must, like other transactions, be undertakInterest income 43 122 – – en on commercial terms. When such transactions are undertaken particular attention must be paid to the internal rule on handling of conflicts of interest Total 1,229 1,197 841 – and Alecta’s ethics policy, both of which have been adopted by Alecta’s Information on the Parent Company’s, Alecta Pensionsförsäkring, Board of Directors. ömsesidigt, outstanding claims and liabilities to The operations of Alecta are conducted in accordance with principles of related parties at 31 December mutuality. The profit or loss arising in the company must be returned to or Receivables Liabilities borne by the policy holders and the insureds. The operations are conducted Related parties 2019 2018 2019 2018 on a non-profit basis and no profits are distributed. Subsidiaries are regarded Group company chiefly as capital investments aimed at generating the best return for the Non-current receivables 10,923 9,066 – – owners. Receivables from/liabilities to Group companies – – 1,550 445 Transactions between Alecta and Group companies Accrued interest expense – – 0 – Alecta-to-subsidiary transactions refer to loans or shareholder contribuAssociated companies and tions provided in connection with investments made by the subsidiaries. joint ventures Subsidiary-to-Alecta transactions refer mainly to loan repayments and Loans receivable 334 1,857 – – interest payments as well as dividends. Shares and participations in Group Accrued interest income – 2 – – companies are presented in Note 16. Total 11,257 10,925 1,550 445 Transactions with members of the Board, senior management and their immediate family Information on remuneration of senior executives and members of the Board is presented in Note 48. No remuneration was paid to family members of related parties in 2019. Transactions with the Confederation of Swedish Enterprise and PTK Significant events after the The Confederation of Swedish Enterprise and the Council for Negotiation NOTE 52 balance sheet date and Cooperation (PTK) are central labour market organisations in the Swedish private sector. Member organisations and unions of these central organisations are represented on the nomination committees which, on The beginning of 2020 has largely been characterised by concern about the behalf of the owners, appoint members of Alecta’s Council of Administration coronavirus outbreak in China and its impact. At the end of February, it beand thus indirectly also of Alecta’s Board of Directors. No transactions took came apparent that the breakout of the virus had become widespread in the place between Alecta and the Confederation of Swedish Enterprise and PTK rest of the world, which radically changed the situation and led to a sharp fall in 2019. on stock exchanges worldwide and large declines in interest rates. No portfolios were transferred in 2019. In 2018, however, Unionen and Market developments since the outbreak have, taken together, resulted some of the Confederation of Swedish Enterprise’s member organisations in a decrease in value of Alecta’s total investments since 1 January, which transferred insurance portfolios from another insurance provider to Alecta. amounted to SEK 947 billion at the end of February. Total return for the first In 2018, the transferred portfolios had a total value of SEK 691 million and two months of the year was –1.9 per cent. Alecta’s financial position was the transfers were made on commercial terms. adversely impacted during the first two months but remains at a healthy level. The risk margin in the stress test decreased during the period from SEK 230 Transactions with associated companies and joint ventures billion to SEK 190 billion. Joint ventures are defined as entities in which Alecta exercises joint control At present, there is insufficient data available to quantify any effects of the together with the other co-owners. Alecta Pensionsförsäkring, ömsesidigt, coronavirus for Alecta’s insurance commitments, but because the dominant is, directly or via a subsidiary, a co-owner of a number of joint ventures in insurance risk in Alecta is the risk that insureds live longer than expected, we Sweden and the United States. assess the risk for weaker key performance indicators as a result of insurance Transactions between Alecta and these joint ventures refer to lending, risk as minor. shareholder contributions and interest payments, and are shown in the table below. In 2019, the Group sold subsidiaries to joint ventures. Transactions amounted to SEK 1,662 million. In 2019, the Group invested SEK 8,829 million in associated companies. The largest amount pertains to the property company Heimstaden Bostad AB. A list of associated companies and joint ventures is found in Note 18. 1) In 2019, Alecta made a new assessment of the selection centres Collectum and Fora and concluded that these should not be considered related parties. ALECTA’S ANNUAL AND SUSTAINABILIT Y REPORT 2019 121 The Board of Directors’ and CEO’s signatures We hereby declare that, to the best of our knowledge, the annual accounts and consolidated financial statements have been prepared in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles, the information provided gives a true and fair view of the circumstances of the Company and nothing of material significance has been omitted which could affect the view of the Company created by the annual accounts and consolidated financial statements. Stockholm, 19 March 2020 Ingrid Bonde Chairman Jan-Olof Jacke Martin Linder Hanna Bisell First Vice Chairman Second Vice Chairman Member Cecilia Fahlberg Pihlgren Markus Granlund Petra Hedengran Helena Hedlund Member Member Member Member Richard Malmborg Birgitta Pernkrans Mikael Persson Member Employee representative Employee representative Kaj Thorén Anders Weihe Magnus von Koch Member Member Member Magnus Billing CEO Our audit report was submitted on 24 March 2020. Ernst & Young AB Jesper Nilsson Authorised Public Accountant 122 ALECTA’S ANNUAL AND SUSTAINABILIT Y REPORT 2019 Auditor’s report To the Council of Administration of Alecta pensionsförsäkring, ömsesidigt, corporate identity number 502014-6865 Report on the annual accounts and consolidated accounts Opinions Our opinions in this report on the annual accounts and consolidated We have audited the annual accounts and consolidated accounts of accounts are consistent with the content of the additional report Alecta pensionsförsäkring, ömsesidigt for the year 2019 (the finanthat has been submitted to the parent company’s audit committee in cial year). The annual accounts and consolidated accounts of the accordance with the Audit Regulation (537/2014) Article 11. company are included on pages 56–122 in this document. In our opinion, the annual accounts have been prepared in Basis for Opinions accordance with the Annual Accounts Act for Insurance Companies We conducted our audit in accordance with International Standand present fairly, in all material respects, the financial position of ards on Auditing (ISA) and generally accepted auditing standards the parent company as of 31 December 2019 and its financial perin Sweden. Our responsibilities under those standards are further formance and cash flow for the year then ended in accordance with described in the Auditor’s Responsibilities section. We are independthe Annual Accounts Act for Insurance Companies. The consolient of the parent company and the group in accordance with profesdated accounts have been prepared in accordance with the Annual sional ethics for accountants in Sweden and have otherwise fulfilled Accounts Act for Insurance Companies and present fairly, in all our ethical responsibilities in accordance with these requirements. material respects, the financial position of the group as of 31 DecemThis includes that, based on the best of our knowledge and belief, ber 2019 and their financial performance and cash flow for the year no prohibited services referred to in the Audit Regulation (537/2014) then ended in accordance with International Financial Reporting Article 5.1 have been provided to the audited company or, where Standards (IFRS), as adopted by the EU, and the Annual Accounts applicable, its parent company or its controlled companies within Act for Insurance Companies. the EU. We therefore recommend that the Council of Administration We believe that the audit evidence we have obtained is sufficient adopts the income statement and balance sheet for the parent and appropriate to provide a basis for our opinions. company and the group. Key audit matters Key audit matters of the audit are those matters that, in our proWe have fulfilled the responsibilities described in the Auditor’s fessional judgement, were of most significance in our audit of the responsibilities for the audit of the financial statements section of annual accounts and consolidated accounts of the current period. our report, including in relation to these matters. Accordingly, our These matters were addressed in the context of our audit of, and in audit included the performance of procedures designed to respond to forming our opinion thereon, the annual accounts and consolidated our assessment of the risks of material misstatement of the financial accounts as a whole, but we do not provide a separate opinion on statements. The results of our audit procedures, including the procethese matters. For each matter below, our description of how our dures performed to address the matters below, provide the basis for audit addressed the matter is provided in that context. our audit opinion on the accompanying financial statements. Valuation of provisions for life insurance Description How our audit addressed this key audit matter At 31 December 2019, the Group had provisions for life insurWe have evaluated the company’s process for determining proviance of SEK 557 billion, equivalent to 93 % of total liabilities. sions and assessed whether material risks are covered by existing In the Parent Company, provisions for life insurance were SEK controls. We have also assessed the suitability of the methods 557 billion, accounting for 93 % of the Parent Company’s liabiland assumptions used and have made independent calculations ities. Disclosures on provisions for life insurance are provided of provisions for those insurance classes which involve the in Note 1 Accounting principles, Note 2 Significant accounting highest degree of judgement. In our audit, we have engaged our estimates and judgements, Note 3 Risks and risk management, internal actuaries to assist us in carrying out audit procedures in and Note 36 Provision for life insurance. Life insurance prorespect of technical provisions. We have also assessed whether visions need to cover expected future payments of insurance the disclosures made in the financial statements in respect of life claims. Provisions for future claims are calculated using statisinsurance provisions are appropriate. tical methods. Given the size of the balance sheet item relative to total liabilities, and the fact that the valuation requires management to make estimates and judgements, the valuation of life insurance provisions is considered a key audit matter in our audit. ALECTA’S ANNUAL AND SUSTAINABILIT Y REPORT 2019 123 Auditor’s report, cont. Valuation of investment assets Description At 31 December 2019, the Group had investment assets of SEK Information is also provided in Note 19 Classification of finan965 billion, accounting for 97 % of total assets. Investment cial assets and liabilities and in Note 23 Disclosures on financial assets in the Parent Company were SEK 957 billion, accounting instruments measured at fair value based on Level 3. Disclofor 97 % of the Parent Company’s total assets. Of the investsures are also provided in Note 15 Land and buildings. Given ment assets, SEK 958 billion is measured at fair value in the the size of the balance sheet item relative to total assets, and Group and SEK 935 billion is measured at fair value in the Parthe fact that the measurement of financial instruments at Level ent Company. Financial instruments at fair value are divided 2 and Level 3 requires management to make certain estimates into different levels based on a fair value hierarchy (Levels 1, and judgements, the valuation of investment assets is consid2 and 3). Level 1 consists of financial instruments for which ered a key audit matter in our audit. quoted (unadjusted) prices in active markets are available for identical assets or liabilities. For financial instruments in Level How our audit addressed this key audit matter 2, certain estimates and judgements may be required to deterWe have evaluated the company’s process for the valuation of mine fair value, although the use of estimates and judgements financial instruments and other investment assets, and the is much less significant than for financial instruments in Level valuation methods used, and have, where applicable, assessed 3. At 31 December 2019, there were investment assets of SEK 652 the reasonableness of management’s estimates and judgements billion which are measured at fair value at Level 1, SEK 187 bilin calculating fair values. We have tested a selection of key conlion measured at Level 2 and SEK 90 billion measured at Level trols in the valuation process and have independently valued a 3. For the Parent Company, there were investment assets of selection of financial instruments and other investment assets. SEK 652 billion which are measured at fair value at Level 1, SEK The results of this valuation have been compared with manage187 billion measured at Level 2 and SEK 87 billion measured at ment’s own valuation and differences have been analyzed. We Level 3. Disclosures on the valuation of investment assets are have also assessed whether the disclosures made in the finanfound in Note 1 Accounting principles and Note 22 Valuation cial statements in respect of investment assets are appropriate. categories for financial instruments measured at fair value. Other Information than the annual accounts and the consolidated accounts, in accordance with IFRS as adopted by consolidated accounts the EU. The Board of Directors and the Chief Executive Officer are This document also contains other information than the annual also responsible for such internal control as they determine is necesaccounts and consolidated accounts and is found on pages 1–11, sary to enable the preparation of annual accounts and consolidated 45–55 and 127–129. The Board of Directors and the Chief Executive accounts that are free from material misstatement, whether due to Officer are responsible for this other information. fraud or error. Our opinion on the annual accounts and consolidated accounts In preparing the annual accounts and consolidated accounts, The does not cover this other information and we do not express any Board of Directors and the Chief Executive Officer are responsible form of assurance conclusion regarding this other information. for the assessment of the company’s and the group’s ability to conIn connection with our audit of the annual accounts and continue as a going concern. They disclose, as applicable, matters relatsolidated accounts, our responsibility is to read the information ed to going concern and using the going concern basis of accounting. identified above and consider whether the information is materially The going concern basis of accounting is however not applied if the inconsistent with the annual accounts and consolidated accounts. In Board of Directors and the Chief Executive Officer intends to liquithis procedure we also take into account our knowledge otherwise date the company, to cease operations, or has no realistic alternative obtained in the audit and assess whether the information otherwise but to do so. appears to be materially misstated. The Audit Committee shall, without prejudice to the Board of If we, based on the work performed concerning this information, Director’s responsibilities and tasks in general, among other things conclude that there is a material misstatement of this other informaoversee the company’s financial reporting process. tion, we are required to report that fact. We have nothing to report in this regard. Auditor’s responsibility Our objectives are to obtain reasonable assurance about whether Responsibilities of the Board of Directors and the Chief Executive the annual accounts and consolidated accounts as a whole are free Officer from material misstatement, whether due to fraud or error, and to The Board of Directors and the Chief Executive Officer are responissue an auditor’s report that includes our opinions. Reasonable sible for the preparation of the annual accounts and consolidated assurance is a high level of assurance but is not a guarantee that an accounts and that they give a fair presentation in accordance with audit conducted in accordance with ISAs and generally accepted the Annual Accounts Act for Insurance Companies and, concerning auditing standards in Sweden will always detect a material misstate124 ALECTA’S ANNUAL AND SUSTAINABILIT Y REPORT 2019 Auditor’s report, cont. ment when it exists. Misstatements can arise from fraud or error We must inform the Board of Directors of, among other matters, and are considered material if, individually or in the aggregate, they the planned scope and timing of the audit. We must also inform of could reasonably be expected to influence the economic decisions of significant audit findings during our audit, including any significant users taken on the basis of these annual accounts and consolidated deficiencies in internal control that we identified. accounts. We must also provide the Board of Directors with a statement As part of an audit in accordance with ISAs, we exercise profesthat we have complied with relevant ethical requirements regarding sional judgement and maintain professional skepticism throughout independence, and to communicate with them all relationships and the audit. We also: other matters that may reasonably be thought to bear on our independence, and where applicable, related safeguards. • Identify and assess the risks of material misstatement of the From the matters communicated with the Board of Directors, annual accounts and consolidated accounts, whether due to fraud we determine those matters that were of most significance in the or error, design and perform audit procedures responsive to those audit of the annual accounts and consolidated accounts, including risks, and obtain audit evidence that is sufficient and approprithe most important assessed risks for material misstatement, and ate to provide a basis for our opinions. The risk of not detecting a are therefore the key audit matters. We describe these matters in the material misstatement resulting from fraud is higher than for one auditor’s report unless law or regulation precludes disclosure about resulting from error, as fraud may involve collusion, forgery, intenthe matter. tional omissions, misrepresentations, or the override of internal control. • Obtain an understanding of the company’s internal control relReport on other legal and regulatory evant to our audit in order to design audit procedures that are requirements appropriate in the circumstances, but not for the purpose of expressing an opinion on the effectiveness of the company’s interOpinions nal control. In addition to our audit of the annual accounts and consolidated • Evaluate the appropriateness of accounting policies used and the accounts, we have also audited the administration of the Board reasonableness of accounting estimates and related disclosures of Directors and the Chief Executive Officer of Alecta pensionsmade by the Board of Directors and the Chief Executive Officer. försäkring, ömsesidigt for the year 2019 (the financial year) and the • Conclude on the appropriateness of the Board of Directors’ and proposed appropriations of the company’s profit or loss. the Chief Executive Officer’s use of the going concern basis of We recommend to the Council of Administration that the profit accounting in preparing the annual accounts and consolidated be appropriated in accordance with the proposal in the Administraaccounts. We also draw a conclusion, based on the audit evidence tion Report and that the members of the Board of Directors and the obtained, as to whether any material uncertainty exists related Chief Executive Officer be discharged from liability for the financial to events or conditions that may cast significant doubt on the year. company’s and the group’s ability to continue as a going concern. If we conclude that a material uncertainty exists, we are required Basis for opinions to draw attention in our auditor’s report to the related disclosures We conducted the audit in accordance with generally accepted auditin the annual accounts and consolidated accounts or, if such dising standards in Sweden. Our responsibilities under those standards closures are inadequate, to modify our opinion about the annual are further described in the Auditor’s Responsibilities section. We accounts and consolidated accounts. Our conclusions are based on are independent of the parent company and the group in accordance the audit evidence obtained up to the date of our auditor’s report. with professional ethics for accountants in Sweden and have otherHowever, future events or conditions may cause a company and a wise fulfilled our ethical responsibilities in accordance with these group to cease to continue as a going concern. requirements. • Evaluate the overall presentation, structure and content of the We believe that the audit evidence we have obtained is sufficient annual accounts and consolidated accounts, including the discloand appropriate to provide a basis for our opinions. sures, and whether the annual accounts and consolidated accounts represent the underlying transactions and events in a manner that Responsibilities of the Board of Directors and the Chief Executive achieves fair presentation. Officer • Obtain sufficient and appropriate audit evidence regarding the The Board of Directors is responsible for the proposal for approprifinancial information of the entities or business activities within ations of the company’s profit or loss. At the proposal of a dividend, the group to express an opinion on the consolidated accounts. We this includes an assessment of whether the dividend is justifiable are responsible for the direction, supervision and performance of considering the requirements which the company’s and the group’s the group audit. We remain solely responsible for our opinions. type of operations, size and risks place on the size of the parent company’s and the group’s equity, consolidation requirements, liquidity and position in general. ALECTA’S ANNUAL AND SUSTAINABILIT Y REPORT 2019 125 Auditor’s report, cont. The Board of Directors is responsible for the company’s organizaAs part of an audit in accordance with generally accepted auditing tion and the administration of the company’s affairs. This includes standards in Sweden, we exercise professional judgement and mainamong other things continuous assessment of the company’s and the tain professional skepticism throughout the audit. The examination group’s financial situation and ensuring that the company’s organiof the administration and the proposed appropriations of the comzation is designed so that the accounting, management of assets and pany’s profit or loss is based primarily on the audit of the accounts. the company’s financial affairs otherwise are controlled in a reassurAdditional audit procedures performed are based on our professioning manner. The Chief Executive Officer shall manage the ongoing al judgment with starting point in risk and materiality. This means administration according to the Board of Directors’ guidelines and that we focus the examination on such actions, areas and relationinstructions and among other matters take measures that are necesships that are material for the operations and where deviations and sary to fulfil the company’s accounting in accordance with law and violations would have particular importance for the company’s handle the management of assets in a reassuring manner. situation. We examine and test decisions undertaken, support for decisions, actions taken and other circumstances that are relevant Auditor’s responsibility to our opinion concerning discharge from liability. As a basis for Our objective concerning the audit of the administration, and thereour opinion on the Board of Directors’ proposed appropriations of by our opinion about discharge from liability, is to obtain audit evithe company’s profit or loss we examined whether the proposal is in dence to assess with a reasonable degree of assurance whether any accordance with the Insurance Business Act. member of the Board of Directors or the Chief Executive Officer in any material respect: Ernst & Young AB, Box 7850, 10399 Stockholm, was appointed auditor of Alecta Pensionsförsäkring, ömsesidigt by the Council • has undertaken any action or been guilty of any omission which of Administration on the 11 April 2019 and has been the company’s can give rise to liability to the company, or auditor since the 10 April 2014. • in any other way has acted in contravention of the Companies Act, the Insurance Business Act, the Annual Accounts Act for Insurance Companies or the Articles of Association. Stockholm, 24 March 2020 Ernst & Young AB Our objective concerning the audit of the proposed appropriations of the company’s profit or loss, and thereby our opinion about this, is to assess with reasonable degree of assurance whether the proposal is in accordance with the Insurance Business Act. Jesper Nilsson Reasonable assurance is a high level of assurance but is not a Authorised Public Accountant guarantee that an audit conducted in accordance with generally accepted auditing standards in Sweden will always detect actions or omissions that can give rise to liability to the company, or that the proposed appropriations of the company’s profit or loss are not in accordance with the Insurance Business Act. 126 ALECTA’S ANNUAL AND SUSTAINABILIT Y REPORT 2019 Review report To the Council of Administration of Alecta Pensionsförsäkring, ömsesidigt, corp. ID. no. 502014-6865 We have, in our capacity as lay auditors, reviewed the operations of Alecta pensionsförsäkring, ömsesidigt for the year 2019. We performed our review in accordance with the Swedish Insurance Companies Act and generally accepted auditing standards in Sweden. This means that we planned and performed our review so as to obtain reasonable assurance that the company’s operations have been conducted in an appropriate and financially satisfactory manner, and that the company’s internal control is adequate. Our review did not result in any qualifications. Stockholm, 25 March 2020 Niklas Hjert Lars Jansson ALECTA’S ANNUAL AND SUSTAINABILIT Y REPORT 2019 127 Glossary Adjustment of paid-up values Discount rate Policy holder Assigned refunds through an increase of the pension The interest rate used to calculate the present value of The party that has entered into an insurance contract with entitlement earned prior to retirement age. This adjustfuture cash inflows and outflows. an insurance company. ment is primarily made to compensate for inflation. Distributable assets Premium rate Agency agreement with Collectum The total market value of assets less financial liabilities and For defined benefit insurance, the size of the premium An agreement under which Collectum performs adminisspecial indexation funds. depends partly on the applied premium rate. The premitrative services relating to the ITP plan for Alecta. ums paid, including the cumulative return based on the Financial position premium rate, must be sufficient to pay the guaranteed Allocated refunds The relationship between assets and liabilities where the benefit during the payment period. This means that the Surplus that is allocated to central key ratios for Alecta are the collective funding premium will be higher the lower the applied premium – t he policy holders, in the form of a future reduction of ratio and the solvency ratio. rate. the premium – t he insureds, in the form of a future increase of the Guaranteed refunds Premium reduction insurance benefit A surplus that is guaranteed to Reduction in premiums through allocation or guaranteeing – t o cover the cost under the ITP plan. The parties to the – the policy holders, in the form of premium reductions of refunds. collective agreement have been granted the right to – the insureds, in the form of a raised guaranteed insurindicate how the funds should be used. ance benefit or paid supplementary amount/pension Present value Allocated refunds are not formally guaranteed. supplement. The current value of future payment flows. – to cover the cost under the ITP plan. The decision on Assets under management the final use of the funds is made by Alecta’s Board of PRI model Calculated as equity, provision for life insurance and claims Directors, provided that the Board unanimously agrees Rather than paying premiums to an insurance company, outstanding, according to the balance sheet. that the designated use is consistent with Alecta’s interthe employer reports its pension commitment as a liability ests as an insurance company. in the balance sheet. The distribution of funds begins only Capital base Guaranteed refunds are formally guaranteed. on the retirement of an employee. A credit insurance The insurance company is required to maintain a capital arrangement with PRI Pensionsgaranti guarantees that the base of sufficient size to be able to cover any unforeseen Insured employees will receive their pensions even if their employfuture losses. The capital base consists of the difference The person covered by the insurance contract. er becomes insolvent. between the market value of the Company’s assets, less intangible assets and financial liabilities, and technical Insurance contracts Risk insurance provisions. A contract between an insurance provider and a policy Insurance for which the entire premium is used to protect holder containing a significant insurance risk. against risk. There is no savings component in this type of Capital value insurance. The estimated present value of future payment flows. Investments Investment assets, cash and bank balances, and other Solvency ratio Client-company funds assets and liabilities related to investment assets (such as Total assets at market value less intangible assets and Funds assigned to the policy holders in 1998 from the suraccrued interest income) at market value in the balance financial liabilities, in relation to guaranteed commitments. plus generated by Alecta during the years 1994–1998. The sheet. funds were utilised during the years 2000–2007 and were Solvency margin primarily used as pension premiums at Alecta and other Investment assets The required solvency margin is a minimum requirement life insurance companies. Assets having the character of a capital investment, includfor the size of the capital base. The solvency margin repreing debt securities, shares and real estate, at market value sents just over 4 per cent of the technical provisions. Collective agreement guarantee in the balance sheet. If an employer that has agreed to enrol in the ITP plan Special indexation funds under a collective agreement subsequently fails to sign or Investment management expense ratio Funds allocated to guarantee the indexation of pensions maintain the ITP agreement, fees and other benefits shall Operating expenses in the Company’s investment manageor for other pension-promoting purposes. These funds accrue to the employee to the same extent as if the ment activities in relation to average assets under manageonly become available to Alecta subject to a decision by employer had fulfilled its obligations under the ITP plan. ment. the Confederation of Swedish Enterprise and the Council The collective agreement guarantee is administered by for Negotiation and Cooperation (PTK). Special indexCollectum. Management expense ratio ation funds are therefore not included in collective fundOperating expenses in the insurance business (acquisition ing capital. Collective funding ratio and administrative expenses) and claims settlement Distributable assets in relation to insurance commitments expenses in relation to average assets under management. Supplementary amounts to policy holders and insureds (guaranteed commitments The key ratio is calculated on an aggregate basis and for Refunds allocated to the insureds in addition to the guaras well as allocated refunds). the pension products, excluding selection centre costs. anteed defined contribution pension. Collective funding capital Occupational group life insurance (TGL) Technical provisions The difference between the distributable assets, valued at A life insurance policy under which surviving family memTechnical provisions comprise the capital value of the market value, and the insurance commitments (guaranbers receive a specified amount if the insured dies before insurance company’s guaranteed obligations to the policy teed commitments as well as allocated refunds) to policy retirement. Under the collective agreement, the employer holders and insureds. Technical provisions consist of proviholders and the insureds. is required to take out occupational group life insurance sions for life insurance and claims outstanding. for its employees. Default option Total return In a defined contribution plan where the employee does Original ITPK The return on investments, adjusted for cash flows and not make an active choice of insurance company, the Introduced in 1977, defined contribution ITPK was at that expressed as a percentage. Calculated in accordance with employee automatically becomes a customer of the insurtime automatically invested in Alecta. As of 1990 the indithe recommendations of Insurance Sweden. ance company that has been designated as the default vidual beneficiary has been able to make their own choice. option in the procurement for the management of the Those who had made no choice by year end 2007 had Waiver of premium insurance plan. their ITPK invested in the default option, the original ITPK. Part of the collective risk insurance provided under the ITP No further money has been invested in the original ITPK plan, waiver of premium insurance means that the employDefined benefit insurance (ITP 2) after 2007. er is released from paying premiums if an employee A defined benefit pension plan is a plan under which the becomes incapacitated for work. In such case, premiums size of the pension is determined in advance, for example Pension supplement for insurance provided under the ITP plan will be paid from as a specified amount or a percentage of the final salary. Refunds allocated to the insureds in addition to the guarthe waiver of premium insurance and are recognised as anteed defined benefit pension. Under the applicable actuinsurance compensation. Defined contribution insurance arial guidelines, the pension supplement must not exceed In a defined contribution pension the size of the premium the increase in the consumer price index for the year conis defined in advance, either as a certain percentage of the cerned, starting from the date on which the first pension employee’s salary or as a specified amount. The size of the payment was made to the insured. The pension supplepension depends on the amount of pension capital on ment is determined by the Board each year and is allocated retirement. in conjunction with the payment. 128 ALECTA’S ANNUAL AND SUSTAINABILIT Y REPORT 2019 Alecta pensionsförsäkring, ömsesidigt Telephone +46 20 78 22 80 SE-103 73 Stockholm | alecta.se 8060 | 2020.03 | Photos: Evelina Carborn, unless otherwise indicated | Illustrations: Emily Ryan Production: Alecta | Final art: Griller Grafisk Form
