Building a powerefficient connected world Dialog Semiconductor Plc Annual report and accounts 2019 Contents Powering Strategic report Introduction what’s next Who we are Highlights At a glance IFC 01 02 Investment case 04 Chairman’s statement 06 Our custom, configurable CEO Q&A 08 and standard products What we do enhance consumer Our business model 10 Our markets and strategy experience and enable Our growth strategy 12 our customers to Our strategic priorities 14 Industry drivers 18 differentiate and shorten Industry dynamics 20 their time-to-market. Opportunities in our markets Who we engage with and why? 21 26 Corporate reporting in 2019 28 Managing our resources and relationships 30 Our performance Powering what’s next in Our people and culture: Fostering Innovation 50 Key performance indicators “KPIs” 52 Segmental Review: Custom Mixed Signal 56 Advanced Mixed Signal 58 Connectivity & Audio 60 Financial review 62 Sustainability and risk Managing risk and uncertainty 72 Governance Our corporate governance framework 78 Introduction to governance 79 Leadership – Board of Directors 80 Leadership – Management Team 82 Infotainment Directors’ report Corporate governance statement 84 86 p22 Directors’ remuneration report 92 Remuneration at a glance 93 Directors’ remuneration policy 94 Annual report on remuneration 100 Statement of Directors’ responsibilities 107 Responsibility statement 107 Financial statements Independent auditor’s report 108 Consolidated financial statements 114 Notes to the consolidated financial statements 119 Company financial statements 176 Notes to the Company financial statements 178 Financial performance measures 183 Additional information Appendix 190 Glossary of Terms – Technical 192 Glossary of Terms – Financial 194 Advisers and corporate information 195 Group directory 196 Related undertakings 197 Branches and representative offices 198 Wearables p24 Strategic report Dialog Semiconductor Plc Who we are Building a The 17 UN Sustainable Development Goals (“SDGs”) promote sustained and inclusive economic growth, social development and environmental powerefficient protection in the interest of creating a world that is just, equitable and inclusive. Dialog supports the SDGs with our existing programmes. In this report connected we have mapped the outputs of our business model and our activities to the SDGs. These goals are referenced throughout this report: world. We are a fabless semiconductor Our passion for innovation and company primarily focused on the entrepreneurial spirit ensures we development of highly-integrated remain at the forefront of powerand power-efficient mixed-signal efficient semiconductor technology Integrated Circuits (“ICs”) for for the Internet of Things (“IoT”), consumer electronics and highmobile computing and automotive. growth segments of automotive and industrial end-markets. Learn more about Dialog Semiconductor online at www.dialog-semiconductor.com Annual report and accounts 2019 Strategic report Highlights Financial highlights 2019 Revenue excluding licensed main Revenue Underlying revenue PMIC products US$1,566m US$1,420m US$794m +9% year-on-year (2018: US$1,442m) (2)% year-on-year (2018: US$1,442m) +38% year-on-year (2018: US$575m) See more about our investment case and how we performed against our long-term financial targets on page 05. Gross margin Underlying gross margin 54.2% 49.8% (2018: 47.9%) (2018: 48.3%) Operating margin Underlying operating margin 24.3% 22.8% (2018: 13.8%) (2018: 19.5%) Diluted EPS Underlying diluted EPS US$3.96 US$3.47 (2018: US$1.80) (2018: US$2.90) Cash flow from operating activities US$496.5m (2018: US$288.6m) Operational highlights 2019 Underlying measures of performance are non-IFRS measures because they exclude amounts that are included in, Employees Engineering talent ratio or include amounts that are excluded 2,036 77% from, the most directly comparable measure calculated and presented in accordance with IFRS or are calculated using financial measures that are not calculated in accordance (2018: 2,100) (2018: 76%) with IFRS. We do not regard nonIFRS measures as a substitute for, or superior to, the equivalent IFRS measures. Non-IFRS measures presented by Dialog may not be Customer concentration On Time Delivery performance directly comparable with similarly-titled measures used by other companies. 72% 99.9% An explanation of the adjustments made to the equivalent IFRS measures in calculating the non-IFRS measures and reconciliations of the non-IFRS (2018: 75%) (2018: 99.7%) measures to the equivalent IFRS measures for each of the periods presented are set out in the section entitled “Financial performance measures” on pages 183 to 189. 01 Strategic report Dialog Semiconductor Plc At a glance Our power-efficient mixed-signal ICs are used in an increasing number of applications, enabling people to be connected on the move and live healthier lives. Our position in the industry value chain IP vendors SOC/Semiconductor design vendors Semiconductor Foundries Packaging and test Customers End-consumer IP, software and design tools (manufacturing (OEMs and ODMs) Materials vendors Manufacturing of semiconductors) equipment vendors Our segments The Group’s organisational structure was updated in 2019. Custom Mixed Signal These changes align with our focused R&D approach and pursuit of business opportunities in high-growth segments of our target Percentage of total Group end-markets – IoT, mobile, automotive, computing and industrial. underlying revenue in 2019 Year-on-year revenue decline (7)% We have reduced the number of reporting segments from four to three: Custom Mixed Signal (“CMS”), Advanced Mixed Signal (“AMS”) and Connectivity & Audio (“C&A”); previously Mobile Systems, Advanced Mixed Signal, Connectivity and Automotive & Industrial. Underlying revenue In parallel, the Management Team changed its focus from IFRS measures to underlying measures as the principal basis for 68% (US$m) allocating resources to and assessing the financial performance of the Group’s businesses. Underlying revenue and underlying operating profit/loss are now the measures presented in the Group’s US$965m segment disclosures. 2019 965 2018* 1,042 2017* 1,060 Underlying revenue by segment Description Our custom products replace discrete power management Total Group underlying revenue components with highly-integrated single chip solutions that provide higher energy efficiency, design simplicity and lower costs for US$1,420m 34 portable and mobile devices, automotive infotainment systems, solid 2 state drives and gaming. High-quality efficient charging technologies extending battery life experience are critical for our customers. In October 2019, we acquired Creative Chips GmbH (“Creative Chips”), a provider of custom ICs for the industrial market. 1 Key products –– Power Management Integrated Circuits (“PMICs”) for battery and tethered applications. –– Sub-PMICs for high-performance multi-core System-on-Chip 1 Custom mixed signal 68% (“SoC”) based systems. 2 Advanced mixed signal 18% –– Charger ICs for smartphones and tablets. 3 Connectivity & audio 13% –– Automotive grade PMICs for in-vehicle infotainment and cluster systems. 4 Corporate and other 1% –– Motor control ICs (automotive). Total Group revenue was US$1,566 million. –– Sub-PMICs for Digital Single Lens Reflex (“DSLR”) cameras. See explanations and reconciliations to the nearest –– Solid State Drive ICs. equivalent IFRS measures in the section entitled –– Custom Ethernet ICs. “Financial performance measures” on pages 183 to 189. Read more in our segment review on page 56 * Restated to reflect the segment reorganisation and measurement changes. 02 Annual report and accounts 2019 Our operations Strategic report Global 2,036 Key Employees Head offices 30 Design and Test Sales offices Locations 15 Countries Advanced Mixed Signal Connectivity & Audio Percentage of total Group Percentage of total Group underlying revenue in 2019 Year-on-year revenue growth underlying revenue in 2019 Year-on-year revenue growth +4% +19% Underlying revenue Underlying revenue 18% (US$m) 13% (US$m) US$253m US$184m 2019 253 2019 184 2018* 245 2018* 154 2017* 148 2017* 138 Description Description Configurable Mixed-signal ICs (“CMICs”) can integrate many system We provide short-range wireless connectivity solutions that deliver functions while minimising component count, board space and outstanding performance and power efficiency. In 2019, we power consumption. We also provide AC/DC controller solutions expanded our SmartBond™ Bluetooth® low energy (“BLE”) product which enable fast and efficient charging for portable applications family with the launch of the market-leading advanced BLE wireless and LED drivers for display backlighting and Solid State Lighting microcontroller family as well as the best-in-class lowest power and (“SSL”). smallest wireless BLE microcontroller. Our Digital Enhanced Cordless Telecommunications (“DECT”) and Key products audio products enable a range of professional audio applications –– CMICs. and high-end consumer headsets. –– AC/DC power conversion ICs for mobile and embedded In 2019, we acquired the Mobile Product division from Silicon Motion power applications. Technology Group, FCI, and along with it the VirtualZero™ product family –– LED drivers for direct backlighting for TVs, monitors of low power Wi-Fi SoCs targeting battery operated IoT applications. and automotive. –– SSL LED drivers, including ASIC controllers. Key products –– PMICs for battery and tethered applications. –– Sub-PMICs for high-performance multi-core SoC based systems. –– Bluetooth® low energy ICs. –– Low power Wi-Fi SoCs. –– Voice over DECT for cordless phones and professional audio applications. –– Digital audio and audio CODEC ICs for headsets and headphones. –– Audio CODECs for computing, portable media players and audio accessories. Read more in our segment review on page 58 Read more in our segment review on page 60 * Restated to reflect the segment reorganisation and measurement changes. 03 Strategic report Dialog Semiconductor Plc Investment case Structural growth A growing –– Our low power and mixed-signal technical competencies are aligned with secular trends in efficient power management and Year-on-year revenue growth in 2019 (excluding legacy licensed main PMIC products) business power-efficient technologies in connected (“Internet of Things”) devices, mobile, +38% built on automotive, computing and industrial. Read more about our industry drivers innovation on pages 18 and 19 Solid competitive positioning –– The quality of our products is rooted in Expensed in R&D in 2019 deep and focused R&D investment and intellectual property. –– Our engineers deliver technical excellence US$314m and high level of integration through short design cycles. Number of employees in engineering functions in 2019 1,573 Read more about how we are enhancing our competitive advantages on pages 10 and 11 High returns, strong cash generation –– We outsource the production of our Free cash flow in 2019* semiconductors to leading foundries. Our high-touch fabless model enables a low capital intensity business. US$449m –– The combination of low capital intensity and rigorous working capital management Share buyback in 2019 US$252m results in strong cash flow generation. –– Although reinvesting in the business is a priority. We seek to consistently return excess cash to shareholders through share buybacks. Read more about cash flow on page 67 Support organic and inorganic expansion –– We reinvest our cash in organic and Number of sales opportunities inorganic initiatives which aim to with a value higher than US$250k enhance our competitive advantage, expand our technology portfolio and our customer base. 1,049 Read more about our KPIs on pages 52 to 55 Cash allocated to acquisitions in 2019 * Free cash flow is a non-IFRS measure. See “Financial performance measures” US$140m on pages 183 to 189. 04 Annual report and accounts 2019 Strategic report Our entrepreneurial and collaborative values support the success of our business Agility Difference Many Ideas We believe in being We care about our impact and We are at our best when We have a passion for entrepreneurial, always know that we make a difference we work together, across innovation and thrive on new moving and decisive: to our customers and their geographic and cultural ideas. This is about pushing delivering excellence, end-consumers, to employees boundaries. This is about sharing boundaries and taking pride and keeping things simple. and society. ideas, challenging each other in new approaches. and building strong relationships with our customers, employees and suppliers. In November 2019 we updated the long-term financial targets we communicated in 2018, increasing underlying gross margin and underlying operating margin Long-term 2019 financial targets Revenue growth Multiple long-term growth drivers +38% Mid-teens % (excluding licensed business) in target markets Underlying gross margin 49.8% 50% to 53% Expanding gross margin Underlying R&D% 19.5% 18% to 20% Focused R&D investment in target markets Underlying SG&A% 9.1% 8% to 10% Expanding global sales and distribution Underlying operating margin 22.8% 20% to 25% Target margin expansion Underlying effective tax rate 19.8% 19% to 20% Gradual reduction We are building a diverse mixed-signal business Following the closing of the licensing arrangement with our largest customer, we aim to reduce customer concentration and rebalance the end-market exposure of our business. Long-Term Revenue Profile1 (US$m) 2018 2019 2022E 1,566 1,442 146 Perpetual IP licence Strategic Growth Initiatives2 867 626 Licensed main PMICs New custom mixed-signal products3 CAGR4 30-35% 315 149 AMS, C&A, automotive 426 448 products reported in CMS CAGR4 10-15% 70%5 66%5 35-40% of revenue5 1 Chart not drawn to scale. 3 Includes in-device charging, audio signal chain, 5 Revenue from Apple recognised in Custom Mixed Signal 2 Includes inorganic growth and ongoing licence revenue. new display and power management. as a percentage of total Group revenue. 4 Revenue CAGR from 2018E through 2022E based on company projections. 05 Strategic report Dialog Semiconductor Plc Chairman’s statement Creating “We are successfully delivering against our strategic objectives. long-term The strength of our core capabilities gives value for us confidence about the potential for further long‑term value creation all our for our shareholders and other stakeholders.” stakeholders Fellow shareholder, 2019 was the first year of the new chapter in the Company’s history and its 20th anniversary as a listed company. Our focused R&D approach in high-growth segments of our target end-markets and operational excellence resulted in increasing underlying profitability and strong cash flow generation. Excluding the revenue from licensed main PMICs, the business grew 38%, despite some softness in consumer demand during the first half of the year. In 2019, we returned US$252 million to shareholders through our share buyback programme. 06 Annual report and accounts 2019 Strategic report Relationships with customers, majority of shareholders to follow up on their The Directors of Dialog Semiconductor partners and communities concerns in relation to the remuneration and its subsidiaries act in accordance Strong and responsible relationships with policy. We will continue to engage with with a set of general duties detailed customers, partners and communities are shareholders on a range of issues, including in the UK Companies Act. These include part of our DNA. remuneration, corporate governance, a duty to promote the success of gender diversity and other social and the Company. The licensing arrangement with Apple environmental topics. which was closed in April 2019, was s172 of the UK Companies Act a good example of how the Board Read more about our relations with A director of a company must act in considered and balanced the interests of shareholders in our Governance section the way he considers, in good faith, employees and customers to ensure the on page 89 would most likely promote the long-term long-term sustainability of our business. success of the company for the benefit of Our collaborative values extend to the Governance and oversight its shareholders. In doing so, the directors way we engage with our stakeholders Our ability to create value for our must have regard, amongst other and have resulted in the development of stakeholders is heavily linked to our matters, to the: leading technology, product quality and commitment to high standards of product excellence. corporate governance. The Board and –– likely consequences of its decisions in the long term; Our responsibility extends to wider society, I feel we have the right balance of skills, –– interests of the company’s employees; living by and promoting responsible business experience and backgrounds to oversee –– need to foster business relationships practices across our value chain. We audit the evolution of our strategy and challenge with customers, suppliers and our manufacturing partners annually and the Management Team. other stakeholders; follow up the resolution on any findings while During the year we welcomed Joanne –– impact of the company’s operations consistently increasing the level of scrutiny Curin to the Board. This appointment in the community and the environment; of our audits. has broadened the diversity of skills on –– need to maintain a reputation for high the Board, with Joanne bringing a wealth standards of business conduct; and Read more about our value chain of experience and knowledge on capital –– need to act fairly as between members on pages 44 to 47 markets, M&A and finance which will be of the company. As one of the leading European companies especially valuable to Dialog. in analog mixed-signal semiconductors, we Read more on how the Board engaged The Board is aware that our approach continuously engage with universities and with a wide range of stakeholders to governance can only be evaluated if professional bodies, sharing our knowledge on page 28 we provide high levels of transparency. and supporting the development of students To enhance our disclosure and levels of and professionals. Additionally, in 2019 we accountability, in this year’s report we are Our culture and employees contributed approximately US$1.3 billion to a taking the first step towards integrated Our growth strategy is supported by our range of stakeholders, including employees, reporting, providing a single simplified collaborative and entrepreneurial spirit, a tax authorities and local community projects message to our stakeholders of all the passion for innovation, the impact of our across the world. sources of value creation and preservation. actions, and the way we conduct business. The Board and our employees live by our Read more about our societal benefits As we move into 2020, we will continue to four Company values expressed as the on pages 40 and 41 look to refine our governance framework to values of Agility, Difference, Many and Ideas. Our highly integrated and power-efficient reflect the updates to the 2018 UK Corporate This year the Board had the opportunity to products contribute towards the reduction Governance Code. meet and discuss our plans with employees of power consumption and materials in during a visit to our design centre in Munich consumer electronics. For example our Outlook in late October. We had an open and lively CMICs can integrate more than 30 discrete We are executing on our strategy, creating discussion on topics such as Dialog’s longcomponents into a single chip, contributing a more balanced business building on term strategy, product diversification and to a significant reduction in the materials our strengths and generating value for commitment to environmental issues, which used. Integration is one of the many shareholders and other stakeholders over will contribute to shaping the business and contributions of our technology to society. the long term. ensure its long-term sustainable success. Our confidence in the future of our business The commitment and engagement of our Building a constructive dialogue with would not be possible without the hard 2,036 colleagues are vital to our success. shareholders and investors work and passion of all our colleagues, and The ability to retain and develop our talent The Board is committed to engaging in the Board would like to express its sincere is key to the successful execution of our constructive dialogue with shareholders. thanks for their efforts and commitment. strategy and the long-term sustainability In 2019, I had the opportunity to meet with Finally, I would also like to thank our of the business. For this purpose, our shareholders in London and Frankfurt to shareholders and other stakeholders for human resources effort is focused on discuss our governance arrangements and their continued support. these two areas. remuneration policies. These meetings foster mutual understanding of what is important Sincerely, As part of the refinement of our employee to the Board and shareholders. Additionally, engagement processes, Nick Jeffery, a notable minority of shareholders opposed Richard M. Beyer chairman of our Nomination Committee, was the new remuneration policy at the 2019 Chairman appointed to oversee employee engagement AGM. Since then, we engaged with a in 2019. Read more about our employees on pages 32 to 35 07 Strategic report Dialog Semiconductor Plc CEO Q&A Executing our Underlying operating profit US$324m plan to build (Operating profit US$380m*) a diverse Underlying gross margin 49.8% business (Gross margin 54.2%*) Year-on-year revenue growth excluding licensed PMIC products +38% Dear shareholder, Our talent, best-in-breed expertise and collaborative approach give me confidence in 2019 we took the first in the future of our business. steps on the successful 2019 was the first year of our plan to become execution of our plan a more diverse mixed-signal business. towards building a more We did so with confidence in the future, closing in early April the transaction with diverse mixed-signal Apple announced in October 2018 and business. delivering an excellent financial performance. In November 2019, we upgraded our longterm financial targets published in November 2018, with increased targets for underlying gross margin and underlying operating margin, reflecting our confidence in the future of the business. We have entered a new phase of revenue growth, building on our strong expertise in power-efficient mixed-signal semiconductors, talented and committed colleagues, intellectual property and strong customer relationships. Dialog is focused on growing its market share in high-growth segments of Internet of Things (“IoT”), mobile, automotive, computing and industrial. Total Group revenue in 2019 was US$1,566 million and operating margin was 24.3%. In 2019 the business delivered 38% year‑on‑year revenue growth excluding revenue from licensed main PMIC products and increased underlying operating margin. Total Group underlying revenue in 2019 was 2% below 2018. During the year, we acquired FCI and Creative Chips. These two acquisitions have contributed to the expansion of our product portfolio in IoT and industrial applications. * See full explanations and reconciliations on pages 183 to 189. 08 Annual report and accounts 2019 Strategic report Since the IPO in 1999, Dialog has developed leading mixed-signal technology through a Q  ow do you see consumer Internet H of Things (“IoT”) and mobile “In 2019, revenue from collaborative approach, working closely with computing evolving, and how Bluetooth® low energy customers, suppliers and other stakeholders. would you describe Dialog’s The length and quality of our customer competitive position? was up 34%, the fifth relationships, the commitment of our IoT and mobile computing are our main consecutive year of employees and a strong collaboration with end-markets. Our deep expertise and our foundry, test and packaging partners are IP in mixed-signal semiconductors are strong revenue growth” a testimony of this approach. The Company aligned with customer requirements for values are lived daily by employees, energy-efficient and configurable products. management and the Board: being open, We hold market leading positions in multiple entrepreneurial and collaborative, and market segments, including custom power We continue to work hard to bring new understanding that together we make a management, AC/DC power conversion, revenue growth opportunities in our target contribution to society which goes beyond CMIC, backlighting, Bluetooth® low energy end-markets. Over the coming years M&A the generation of economic value. and DECT. will contribute to enhance our competitive advantages, expand our product portfolio During the last ten years we powered the Our highly-integrated power-efficient ICs and addressable markets, and reduce mobile computing revolution; we are now contribute to improving the battery life of customer concentration. building a power-efficient connected world. mobile and connected devices. Our knowhow and IP have been built over the Q  hat are the main sustainability W years, working together with the leading priorities for Dialog? consumer electronics companies. We have Q&A with Jalal As a participant in the United Nations’ Global a number of new products which will Compact – to which we committed since generate new revenue growth over the next 2012 – we continue to apply sustainability Q  ow would you describe Dialog’s H three years, such as leveraging our power management standards in the pursuit of our financial performance in 2019? management technology into automotive business ambitions. I am very pleased with the financial and high‑voltage chargers. performance of the business in 2019. Our employees, innovative power-efficient We are seeing an increasing use of LED Underlying revenue for the Group was products, and a responsible supply backlighting in smaller TV displays and down 2% but excluding the revenue chain are our key sustainability priorities. automotive dashboards. Our technology from licensed main PMIC products These are vital for the long-term success meets today’s High Dynamic Range revenue was up 38%. During the year of our business. We continue to work hard (“HDR”) requirements and is well placed to we delivered almost US$380 million to ensure the ongoing development of benefit from new opportunities in microoperating profit, US$324 million on an our talented employees. This combined LED displays. Rapid charge technologies underlying basis. In addition, the business with our focused R&D approach results continue to be adopted across Asian delivered US$496 million cash flow from in a continuing cycle of innovation in markets. During 2019, we saw the adoption operating activities. power-efficient technologies. Lastly, our of new technologies, such as USB PD Type collaborative business approach and We are rebalancing the end-market profile C™ and higher power adapters. With a commitment ensures we play an active role of the business, reducing its exposure to the commanding market share in rapid charge in promoting high standards of business smartphone market. Consumer demand for smartphones we are well positioned to conduct across the value chain. in the high-end smartphone segment continue to benefit from these trends. remained relatively stable during the year. We recognise the value a diverse workforce Our presence in the IoT segment is built on Custom Mixed Signal revenue in 2019 can bring in terms of creativity, dynamism the success and quality of our Bluetooth® was 7% below 2018 due to the licensing and the sharing of new perspectives. low energy (“BLE”) products, low power arrangement with Apple. Dialog remains committed to promote Wi‑Fi, and increasingly our CMICs. STEM subjects, particularly amongst female The number of connected devices continued The market grew in 2019 and we expect students, and to inspire the future innovators. to increase, resulting in the expansion of it to grow at approximately 32% CAGR the Bluetooth® low energy market in 2019. for the period 2019-20231. Q Is there anything else you would Building on the quality of our products In 2019, BLE grew 34% year-on-year, like to add? and market growth, Connectivity & Audio the fifth consecutive year of strong I would like to thank all our employees for delivered 19% year-on-year growth in both double‑digit growth. their commitment and dedication. We have underlying revenue and operating profit. taken the first successful steps in building Across a range of end-markets, customers Q  hat is the M&A opportunity W a more diverse, vibrant and ambitious value the benefits of our Configurable for Dialog? mixed-signal business which will continue Mixed‑signal ICs, which delivered 5% In 2019 we made two acquisitions, targeting to create long-term sustainable value for our year‑on-year underlying revenue growth. IoT and industrial. The first one, FCI, shareholders and other stakeholders. The adoption of LED backlighting gathered expanded our product portfolio in consumer I look forward to the future with momentum during 2019, and revenue from IoT with low power Wi-Fi while the acquisition confidence, together with our colleagues, backlight drivers almost doubled year-onof Creative Chips has given us an entry customers, partners and suppliers, year. Revenue from Advanced Mixed Signal into the industrial market. Both acquisitions and our shareholders. grew 4% year-on-year while we expanded brought complementary and differentiated the product pipeline to support future IP, and contributed to the expansion of our revenue growth. customer base, particularly in the European Dr Jalal Bagherli industrial segment. We welcomed new Chief Executive Officer employees based mainly in Germany and Korea and made excellent progress on their integration into Dialog. 1 Source: IHS Technology October 2019 and Company estimates. 09 Strategic report Dialog Semiconductor Plc Our business model How we monetise our business Inputs We typically invest in R&D up to 18 months 2 Manufacturing cycle ahead of product launch and we recover our investments through the sale of our We have developed a strong and Our people and culture. semiconductors. Our customers’ product responsible relationship with our Highly skilled engineers cycles typically range from one to five years. foundry, test and packaging partners. and talented employees This, together with the strength of our supported by We outsource production to industrycustomer relationships, means the Company entrepreneurial values. leading wafer foundries such as TSMC, typically has long-term visibility of business UMC and Global Foundries. This approach opportunities and revenue streams, a rare enables flexibility to deploy advanced characteristic for semiconductor companies production processes and maintain low operating in consumer markets. capital intensity. Our assembly and test A fabless business model based on partners are leading companies such as differentiated best-in-breed products and SPIL, ASE and UTAC. Although fabless, Tier 1 customer penetration results in high we are responsible for delivering our Products, IP and volumes, longer-term revenue streams products to customers. know‑how. and ultimately in strong cash generation. Our Global Operations and Quality We invest in new product On the other hand, our relatively high functions have teams based at our development and seek customer concentration can lead to partners’ manufacturing sites. We maintain to ensure that our significant fluctuations in revenue based deep expertise on advanced processes, intellectual property (“IP”) on customer success and sourcing test and packaging development in is adequately safeguarded. strategies. Dialog seeks to minimise its our own teams (“high-touch”). In order environmental footprint. to meet our stringent product quality Aligned interests and qualification requirements, all Dialog development of market-leading test programmes are developed and innovative products seeks to generate maintained by our Test and Product Robust and responsible profitable revenue streams and create longteams and deployed to our partners. value chain. term value for our shareholders. We achieve This approach enables a continuous We promote responsible this by setting stretching performance quality improvement process and delivers practices internally and targets, which align with shareholders’ high levels of assurance to us and across our value chain, interests, and then motivating our executives our customers regarding the potential which is composed of the and employees to achieve those targets risks they are exposed to through the leading foundries, assembly with appropriate incentive arrangements. supply chain. and test companies in The remuneration policy is set out in greater We promote responsible business the industry. detail within the Directors’ remuneration practices internally and across our value policy on pages 94 to 99. chain. An efficient and responsible supply chain is important to us and Customer relationships. 1 Design cycle our customers. A close R&D collaboration with the leading electronics The reciprocal cooperation with 3 Product cycle companies is at the heart of customers and fabrication partners and decentralised R&D approach Dialog’s focus and expertise in what we do. enhances our innovation capacity. power management and powerefficient semiconductors contributes In the consumer electronics market, to better energy efficiency and product development times are short due lower power consumption for a to rapidly evolving consumer requirements range of applications in IoT, mobile in a highly competitive market. and increasingly in automotive, The design of our customised Application computing and industrial. Strong balance sheet. Specific ICs (“ASIC”) is well embedded Our integrated design approach helps A strong balance sheet and in our customers’ design cycle. For the to reduce component size and number, cash flow generation gives design of ASIC solutions, we engage meaning our customers can reduce us the flexibility to pursue our with our customers as an “extended R&D materials consumption, costs, maximise growth strategy. team”, delivering differentiation in short energy efficiency and performance, and design cycles. accelerate their go-to-market. Our passion for innovation is reflected Our customers are attracted by the quality, in the commitment to our people, our performance and energy efficiency of products and intellectual property our products. (“IP”). Our ability to recruit, retain and develop new talent is vital to generating innovation. We seek to ensure that our IP is adequately safeguarded. 10 Annual report and accounts 2019 Strategic report Business process Outputs Highly engaged, motivated Financial flows and diverse workforce 1 Design cycle Investment phase 10.0% 6-18 months Employee turnover in 2019 Read more about our KPIs We develop our products –– Short development times. on pages 52 to 55 in short and collaborative –– Focused R&D* investment design cycles. in target markets 18% – 20% of revenue. We operate in a competitive New IP and power-efficient and changing market differentiated mixed-signal ICs and are able to respond quickly to evolving customer requirements. 1,080 Inventions for which we are pursuing or have already obtained 2 Manufacturing cycle Investment phase patent protection Read more on pages 42 and 43 3 months We work closely with leading –– Low capital intensity. Sustainable partner and responsible production –– Variable cost of goods sold relationships partners – “high-touch Underlying gross margins* 99.9% fabless model”. 50% – 53%. We outsource production to industry‑leading wafer On Time Delivery foundries, assembly Read more on pages 44 to 47 and test partners. 3 Product cycle Revenue generation Close and longstanding customer relationships 1-5 years We focus on highly-integrated power management and low–– Long-term visibility. –– Long-term revenue target 72% power mixed-signal ICs for our of mid-teens percentage Customer concentration target end-markets. growth excluding revenue Read more on pages 36 and 37 from licensed main Our integrated design approach PMIC products. helps to reduce component size and number, which improves the energy efficiency of our High returns and strong customers’ products. cash flow generation Reinvestment US$449m Strategic growth initiatives including M&A Free cash flow generation in 2019 Read more about our KPIs on pages 52 to 55 Our business model is underpinned by our values. Read more on page 05 * See explanations and reconciliations to the nearest equivalent IFRS measures on pages 183 to 189. 11 Strategic report Dialog Semiconductor Plc Our growth strategy Generating new revenue opportunities Extend our product portfolio Our ambition is to build a We made good progress in 2019, moving forward with initiatives in leading and vibrant mixed each of our strategic priorities. signal business, enhancing The strategic framework aims to give the usability, effectiveness a comprehensive view of our business and sustainability of a and the links between our strategy, risks and the progress made during the year. range of applications. Read about Managing risk and uncertainty on pages 72 to 77 Why it is important We aim to continuously extend our product portfolio of highly‑integrated mixed‑signal, power-efficient products. This helps us to diversify, open up new addressable Building a power-efficient markets, and stay ahead connected world. of the competition. Purpose Our growth strategy is built on How we measure our progress 56 innovation, expanding our product portfolio and broadening our customer Our strategy base. We strengthen our organic effort with inorganic opportunities. New products introduced and sold in 2019 with revenues greater than US$200,000. We design and market power-efficient mixed-signal semiconductors. What we do Our values inform the way we conduct internally and how we engage with Read more on this strategic external stakeholders. It is based on priority in action on Our culture and values p14 collaboration, an entrepreneurial spirit, openness and an awareness of our impact in society and the environment. 12 Annual report and accounts 2019 Strategic report Achieve a broader Deliver Strategic and deeper continuous initiatives customer base innovation and M&A Why it is important Why it is important Why it is important The quality of our products Innovation is at the core of our We support the expansion has attracted the leading business. Our top talent and of our business through a brands in each of our markets. technology, paired with an combination of organic initiatives, We want to maintain and grow innovative product development such as investments in new those strong relationships philosophy and focused technologies, establishing while further diversifying our R&D investment, enables partnerships, and M&A. customer base by launching Dialog to deliver high value new products and opening up to our customers. new addressable markets. How we measure our progress How we measure our progress How we measure our progress 43 US$314m In 2019, we extended our product portfolio in Connectivity IoT with the acquisition of FCI bringing low power Wi-Fi expertise in house. New customers welcomed to Dialog Expensed in R&D programmes during 2019, Additionally we entered the industrial market with revenues greater than US$200,000. a decrease of 4% compared with 2018. with the acquisition of Creative Chips. Additionally, we deepened our existing customer base with new ASIC and ASSP products. Read more on this strategic Read more on this strategic Read more on this strategic priority in action on priority in action on priority in action on p15 p16 p17 13 Strategic report Dialog Semiconductor Plc Our strategic priorities Extending our Progress in 2019 –– We launched the latest addition to the SmartBond™ family, the DA1469x product portfolio Bluetooth® low energy SoC, the market leading, feature-rich range of multi-core microcontroller units (MCUs) for wireless connectivity. The new product family builds on the success of the SmartBond™ products adding greater processing Applying our mixed-signal expertise into power, resources, range and battery the development of new products. life for a wide variety of IoT connected consumer applications. Dialog Semiconductor was first to market Key risks with an automotive grade CMIC. –– Human capital. –– Information technology and security. The SLG46620-A is the first-to-market CMIC for the automotive industry, –– Dependency on mobile and with unique GreenPAK™ customisable technology that enhances design consumer electronics. flexibility and scalability for driving the automotive future. –– Supply chain interruption. This SLG46620-A addresses manufacturer requirements to implement –– Quality assurance. the latest safety, comfort and self-driving features by bringing Dialog’s –– Return on research and GreenPAK™ platform to the automotive space, providing lower project development investment. costs, and accelerated time-to-market. Each automotive grade base CMIC can be programmed to include functionalities such as power sequencing, voltage monitoring, system reset, LED control, frequency detection and sensor interfacing. How we measure our progress 56 New products introduced and sold in 2019 with revenue greater than US$200,000 2019 56 2018 48 2017 39 14 Annual report and accounts 2019 Strategic report Achieving a broader and Progress in 2019 –– Samsung implemented Dialog’s latest family of Bluetooth® low energy wireless deeper customer base multicore microcontroller unit (MCU) in the latest Galaxy Fit. Samsung selected the DA14697 that supports seamless smartphone connectivity while conserving energy to extend battery life. –– Dialog’s audio ICs and CMICs were A new family of audio CODECs delivering adopted by Huawei for their HONOR ground-breaking active noise cancellation. FlyPods True Wireless Stereo (“TWS”) earbuds. The DA14195 open audio The global market1 for headphones is forecast platform IC is designed for active headphone type applications and to grow at a CAGR of 20% generating revenues combines extremely low power of around $34 billion. consumption with impressive processing performance. The new audio-codec DA740x family delivers superior active noise cancellation – no matter how noisy the environment – with twice the Key risks audio quality and half the power consumption of its competitors. –– Dependency on key customers. –– Dependency on mobile and Dialog has specifically designed each chip to address different segments consumer electronics. of the headphone market, providing customers with a one-stop shop for optimising their entire mid and high-end product range. 1 Wireless Headphones Market – Global Outlook and Forecast 2019-2024 by Aritzon. How we measure our progress 43 New customers welcomed to Dialog in 2019 with revenue greater than US$200,000. Additionally, we deepened our existing customer base with new ASIC and ASSP products. 2019 43 2018 26 2017 16 15 Strategic report Dialog Semiconductor Plc Our strategic priorities continued Delivering continuous Progress in 2019 –– The newest range in our SmartBond™ line is the latest family of BLE Wireless innovation Multi-Core MCUs that has been designed to expand the range of applications that device manufacturers can create. The line offers advanced features including an integrated ARM Cortex-M33 based dedicated application New sub-PMIC family powers advanced processors. The devices’ three integrated multi‑core mobile processors. cores have each been carefully chosen for their capabilities to sense, In 2019 we introduced a new power management process and communicate between connected devices. product family of four new sub-PMICs, leveraging –– In 2019 we launched SmartBond TINY™, Dialog’s power conversion’s expertise, which offer our smallest and most power-efficient best-in-class transient response and in-circuit digital Bluetooth 5.1 SoC. It enables a complete system cost reduction through a smaller programmability, in a smaller form factor than current footprint and size, while maintaining market solutions. performance quality at a level unmatched by its competitors. The new family of high frequency, I2C controlled DC-DC Buck converters enables developers to fit power solutions into small spaces of devices Key risks spanning smartphones, tablets, notebooks, DLSR cameras and solid state –– Dependency on mobile and drives. This in turn enables the devices to achieve higher efficiency without consumer electronics. sacrificing functionality. –– IP protection. –– IP infringement. How we measure our progress US$314m Expensed in R&D programmes during 2019, a decrease of 4% compared to 2018. 2019 314m 2018 326m 2017 303m 77% Engineering talent ratio (2018: 76%; 2017: 75%) 1,080 Inventions for which we are pursuing or have already obtained patent protection (2018: approximately 860; 2017: approximately 800) 16 Annual report and accounts 2019 Strategic report Focusing on strategic Progress in 2019 –– Additionally in Q4 2019 we acquired Creative Chips, a prominent supplier of initiatives and M&A ICs to the Industrial Internet of Things (IIoT) market. Creative Chips is a fabless semiconductor company with a growing IC business supplying a broad portfolio of industrial Ethernet and other mixedsignal products to top-tier, blue-chip Dialog Semiconductor accelerates IoT adoption manufacturers of industrial and building with low power Wi-Fi SoC, following the automation systems. acquisition of FCI, Silicon Motion’s Mobile Key risks Communications product line. –– Human capital. –– Dependency on key customers. The FC9000 is targeted at battery-powered IoT –– Dependency on mobile and devices such as smart locks, video monitoring consumer electronics. –– Mergers and acquisitions. systems, smart thermostats, and wireless sensors enabling direct connectivity to Wi-Fi networks. This product complements our existing portfolio of leading Bluetooth® low energy SoCs for connected devices. IoT network compatibility and power consumption is becoming increasingly important, and the FC9000’s proprietary power-saving algorithms sets a new industry benchmark which allows it to operate on just a few microamps, increasing the overall battery life for end-devices. As we move towards a Wi-Fi ubiquitous world, being first to market with this technology gives us a significant competitive advantage, enabling direct connectivity to the cloud for IoT devices and easy connection to existing Wi-Fi infrastructure for Industry IoT applications. 17 Strategic report Dialog Semiconductor Plc Industry drivers Longer Semiconductors battery life are the centre Semiconductors are used extensively in all types of electronic devices. The everof the connected growing data processing brought by AI, increasing government regulation world, from and consumer demand for long battery life will drive the need for more powerefficient semiconductors. Smart Homes to industrial IoT. Technological advancements in wireless communications, artificial intelligence (“AI”), automotive, industrial automation, and IoT: consumer electronics are creating new investment opportunities and growth. Smart connected future Semiconductors serve as the foundation for enabling a connected world. There will be a major focus on smaller chips that consume less power and provide better support for wireless connectivity. The number of businesses that use the IoT technologies has increased from 13% in 2014 to about 25% today. The worldwide number of IoT‑connected devices is projected to increase to 43 billion by 2023, an almost threefold increase from 2018.1 Technological advances are enhancing connectivity, reducing power requirements, decreasing costs, and promoting 1 McKinsey & Company, the development of more integrated “Growing opportunities Rise of in the Internet of Things”, IoT solutions. July 2019. artificial intelligence AI is viewed as a source of differentiation by businesses. The next generation of AI is gradually being embedded in a wide range of applications such as self-driving cars, surgical robots, autonomous drones, and smartphones. Semiconductor chips consume a huge amount of power to do such AI intensive tasks. 18 Annual report and accounts 2019 Strategic report Security Data security of connected devices is an important area of focus for semiconductor companies. These include home automation systems, wearable devices, and industrial automation products. Semiconductor companies, especially those used in areas such as home security, connected health and industrial automation will need to focus Automotive on developing secure chips. industry The pace of change in the automotive industry is accelerating and the number of connected and electric cars is growing. Manufacturers are required to implement the latest safety, comfort and selfdriving features which demand an ever-growing number of ICs. Consolidation through M&A As the semiconductor industry growth slows in certain segments, companies are increasingly turning towards M&A to sustain profitability, seek new sources of revenue, achieve greater economies of scale and reduce revenue volatility through a diversified portfolio of products. 5G and AR/VR technologies 5G 5G will enable an increasing number and range of machines to transmit and receive data. Major telecommunications companies, together with mobile phone device manufacturers, are releasing 5G capabilities. The US started the 5G roll-out in December 2018 and Korea in 2019. Bandwidth-intensive applications, such as high-resolution video streaming and AR/VR, accounts for 70% of broadband data usage; and that is expected to rise rapidly. 19 Strategic report Dialog Semiconductor Plc Industry dynamics Top industry dynamics for the next three years Diverse Most OEMs offer a wide range of electronic applications to consumers, in some cases requiring a complete system Customer approach to solve all semiconductor requirements. Demands Implications for Dialog To meet this challenge, Dialog continues to broaden its product portfolio through a combination of organic development and M&A. Companies are seizing the opportunities to serve new sectors, applications and geographies. Read more about our customers on pages 36 and 37 Increasing Electronic engineers are in high demand and companies outside of the semiconductor industry competition are now establishing internal teams to design some of their semiconductor requirements. for talent Implications for Dialog For a number of years, Dialog has established policies, processes and a number of programmes to recruit, develop and retain talent globally. Read more about our people on pages 32 to 35 Cross-border The global nature of the supply chain and the increasingly complex geopolitical environment regulations are becoming a concern for our industry. Implications for Dialog Our fabless operating model provides our business with the ability to adapt to different trading scenarios whenever they may arise. Read more about our risks on pages 72 to 77 ASP* The semiconductor industry is highly competitive, and the price of ICs erodes every year. erosion Implications for Dialog Dialog’s continuous innovation results in differentiated and innovative power-efficient products which create value for our customers. This helps to offset the price erosion which is intrinsic to our industry. Additionally, with higher volumes, we can negotiate lower prices from our fabrication partners. Read more about our segmental review on pages 56 to 61 * Average Selling Price. Increasing Semiconductor companies feel the pressure to innovate, with access to promising IP becoming R&D costs the basis of competition. Implications for Dialog Dialog believes that its future competitive position will depend on its ability to respond to the rapidly changing needs of its customers by developing new designs in a timely and cost-effective manner. Read more about our investment in R&D on pages 42 and 43 20 Annual report and accounts 2019 Strategic report Opportunities in our markets The major markets in which we operate are below* (market size in US$bn) Bluetooth® low energy Custom Power Management 2019 market size 2023 2023 $5.52bn $3.16bn 2023 market opportunity 2019 2019 $1.80bn $2.77bn 32% CAGR 2019-2023 3% CAGR 2019-2023 Key drivers Key drivers –– Increase in the number of smart –– Increase in the number of applications connected devices. using more efficient power management. –– Very low power data transmission from –– Increasing daily use of mobile applications. peripherals to smartphones and tablets. –– Larger batteries and battery charge –– Solutions enabling customers a fast time reduction. go‑to‑market. –– Industry increase in “always-on” –– Automotive qualified products from 2020. applications. –– Acceleration of mobile technology into the automotive space. Automotive – Custom & Infotainment Low Power Wi-Fi 2023 2023 $2.67bn $5.52bn 2019 2019 $1.64bn $1.80bn 13% CAGR 2019-2023 32% CAGR 2019-2022 Key drivers Key drivers –– Increasing electrification of vehicles. –– Increase in the number of smart –– Higher levels of data processing connected devices. requiring more complex and power–– Increasing number of battery operated hungry technologies. devices which require Wi-Fi connection. –– Adoption of latest safety features. –– Solutions enabling customers a fast go‑to‑market. Configurable Mixed-signal ICs Rapid Charge (AC/DC) 2023 2023 $5.49bn $0.38bn 2019 2019 $4.46bn $0.28bn 5% CAGR 2019-2023 8% CAGR 2019-2023 Key drivers Key drivers –– Consumer markets requiring reliable and –– Larger smartphone/mobile device cost sensitive products, as well as fast batteries and higher power adapters time-to-market. needed to charge them. –– Replacement of discrete components –– Consumer demand for faster mobile makes CMICs market agnostic. device charging and smaller travel –– Increasing integration to reduce board adapters/power supplies. space and the number of components. * IHS Technology October 2019 and Company estimates. 21 Strategic report Dialog Semiconductor Plc Powering Infotainment Systems Power management enables a mobile the future: phone-like user experience in today’s high-performance infotainment systems. automotive Dialog Semiconductor has a longestablished position as a premium What’s next? supplier of automotive integrated The increasing electrification of cars circuits (“ICs”). Originally formed as opens new opportunities for our a spin-out of Daimler-Benz, Dialog business. Consumers demand a supplies a broad range of ICs to the mobile phone-like user experience automotive industry and is a qualified for Infotainment and Navigation supplier to leading OEMs in Europe systems with always-on connectivity, and Asia Pacific. high-quality touch screens, multifunctionality, and fast response. Dialog’s power management, backlight drivers, Bluetooth® low energy, and GreenPAK devices Learn more online, at (“CMICs”) deliver differentiated value dialog-semiconductor.com in ADAS, Infotainment, and specific wireless connectivity applications. Alignment to our goals 22 Annual report and accounts 2019 Strategic report Chassis and safety Digital displays Body and security Our sophisticated PMICs power highOur high-channel count Keyless Entry, Tire Pressure performance applications processors backlight drivers enable Monitoring Systems, and in Advanced Driver Assistance Systems large, high dynamic gateways are becoming (“ADAS”) where complex power range, cost effective instandard features for delivery and thermal efficiency are cabin displays. security, safety, and key requirements. convenience. Our highlyintegrated Bluetooth® low energy products enable these features. +12% 2019-2024 CAGR Automotive Infotainment Systems forecast* * Mordor Intelligence, automotive infotainment systems market growth, trends and forecast (2020-2025). 23 Strategic report Dialog Semiconductor Plc Powering SmartBond™ Our ICs help wearable devices deliver a new sense of freedom, the future: enabling the design of compact, power-friendly and flexible solutions. wearables What’s next? #1 Many aspects come together to make an effective wearable device. Form factor, design and power Wearables are increasingly efficiency are vital in making devices interacting with other smart in wearables that are comfortable and easy devices, such as clothing to use, helping us to maintain accessories, headphones a healthy lifestyle. and glasses incorporating miniaturised technology. over All this data will enable us to understand activity patterns and make healthier lifestyle choices. Learn more online, at 300m dialog-semiconductor.com units sold since launch Alignment to our goals 24 Annual report and accounts 2019 Strategic report The first Bluetooth® low energy At the cutting edge of Samsung Galaxy Fit solution for wearables wearable technology In 2019, Samsung The DA1468x family offers the processing Wearables are all implemented the DA1697, power and strong data encryption about bridging the making it one of the first needed for enhanced analysis and secure gap between people wearables on the market data delivery in next-generation devices. and electronics, utilising this SoC, delivering in any environment. a robust battery life. Our ICs provide the Samsung needed a powerpower efficiency and efficient product that would small form factor ensure its wearable device needed for the could keep up with user latest and greatest expectations tracking sleep in wearables. analysis, fitness activity and stress levels. 25 Strategic report Dialog Semiconductor Plc Who we engage with and why? We depend on a number of relationships and resources to succeed and deliver our long-term strategic objectives. Our culture promotes establishing mutually beneficial long-term relationships with our stakeholders, which support value creation. Government/ Employees Customers Regulators Governments and regulators Our people drive the success of We work with the leading continue to introduce legislation our business. We know the value consumer electronics companies. seeking to improve energy a diverse workforce brings and Our engagement goes beyond consumption and product our culture supports an inclusive, customer satisfaction. A closed standards. We also engage entrepreneurial, and collaborative R&D collaboration is at the heart with industry bodies and environment where everyone can of our customer relations. trade associations. achieve their full potential. Our passion for innovation and the Talent retention and development quality of our products are a source are vital to generating innovation of value to our customers. and the success of our business. Customer engagement helps us High levels of engagement and job increase the value we bring into our satisfaction contribute directly to products and our performance. the success of Dialog. Form of engagement Form of engagement Form of engagement –– Government consultations. –– Employee annual reviews. –– Customer service feedback. –– Regulatory enquiries. –– Employee survey. –– Customer audit activity. –– Global Semiconductor Alliance. –– Regular communications on Company intranet. –– Global sustainability Group representatives from each office. –– Round table with the Board in our Germering office. Frequency of engagement Frequency of engagement Frequency of engagement –– Ad hoc. –– At least monthly. –– Monthly to annual contact –– Quarterly Group conference calls. with key customers. What do they care about? What do they care about? What do they care about? –– Environmental regulations. –– Company strategy. –– Product design. –– Product standards. –– Employee turnover. –– Product quality and price. –– Sector wide issues. –– Learning and development. –– Delivery schedules. –– Terms of employment. –– Involvement in sustainability activities. Read more on pages 40 and 41 Read more on pages 32 to 35 Read more on pages 36 and 37 26 Annual report and accounts 2019 Strategic report Community Suppliers Investors Our business is grounded in the We have developed a strong Dialog Semiconductor is listed in communities it operates and and responsible relationship the Frankfurt stock exchange and serves. We work together with with our foundry, test and a constituent of the MDAX and universities and professional packaging partners. Over time, TecDAX indices. We encourage bodies, as well as local and our engagement has evolved a two-way communication national organisations. into a close R&D and supply with potential investors In 2019, we invested US$101,000 chain collaboration. and shareholders. in local community projects Dialog employees are based Feedback from shareholders across the world. in many of the premises of our informs our Board discussions. We aim to make a positive partners. We undertake annual We engage with investors and contribution to the communities audits of our existing fabrication other agents in the financial in which we operate through partners covering operational markets in order to provide technological advance and and sustainability aspects. open and transparent business the enhancement of the local information so they can make skills pool. informed decisions. Form of engagement Form of engagement Form of engagement –– Annual report. –– Procurement contract tenders. –– Annual report. –– Community projects. –– Supply chain audits. –– Investor roadshows and conferences. –– On-site presence at fabrication plants. –– Ongoing investor relations engagement. –– Performance reviews. –– Webcasts. –– Investors perception report. –– Chairman meetings with shareholders. Frequency of engagement Frequency of engagement Frequency of engagement –– Monthly to annual contact –– At least daily with respect –– At least daily. with local communities. to major suppliers. What do they care about? What do they care about? What do they care about? –– Donations and in-kind support. –– Product quality and price. –– Competition for talent and diversity. –– Sponsorship of female –– Delivery schedules. –– Technological trends. engineering students. –– Management of identified issues –– Company performance. –– Collaboration with UKESF. in the 2019 audit process. –– Business strategy and –– Implementation of the 2020 customer concentration. auditing process. –– Supply chain management. –– ESG topics such as remuneration and gender diversity. –– Capital allocation. Read more on pages 40 and 41 Read more on pages 44 to 47 Read more on page 89 27 Strategic report Dialog Semiconductor Plc Corporate reporting in 2019 How the Board performed its duties under s172 of the Companies Act Maintaining our high standards Employees Therefore, customer engagement takes of business conduct The Company follows a structured place at multiple levels through our R&D While the UK Code does not apply to approach to engage with employees, and Sales functions, and their views are Dialog, the Company has always had regard from email communications to on-site embedded in the business plans and for UK corporate governance best practice. “all-hands” meetings where employees proposals presented to the Board. In line with our commitment to maintaining and senior management exchange high standards of corporate governance views. In October 2019, we launched our Suppliers and oversight, the Board will follow the UK refreshed Global Engagement Survey. Our culture promotes long standing and Code to the extent it considers it beneficial In this survey, we achieved 85% employee close collaboration with our key suppliers to the good governance of the Company. participation, our highest ever. The overall and partners. In 2019 our CEO met with the employee engagement score also hit a CEO of TSMC, our largest foundry partner. See our corporate governance statement record high globally with an average score on pages 86 to 91 The views of partners and suppliers, of 72%. In 2019, Nick Jeffery became the particularly on the manufacturing side, designated Director to manage employee Shareholders are embedded in the business plans and engagement in collaboration with our global All our Board members attended the Annual proposals presented to the Board. HR teams. General Meeting in May 2019, and were In the UK, every six months we report available to meet shareholders. Additionally, the October Board meeting on our payment policies, practices and was held in Germering, Germany. At the Board meeting in February 2019, performance. See our latest reported data This provided an opportunity for Board a third-party independent adviser at https://check-payment-practices.service. members to visit our design centre, engage presented the outcome of an investor gov.uk/search directly with employees and experience perception study. The study covered a first-hand how the Company culture and wide range of areas and aimed to provide a values are embedded in the organisation. Community and the environment comprehensive view of investor perceptions The Board recognises the importance of about the Company, its strategy, contributing to wider society. As a fabless Customers management and the way it conducts mixed-signal semiconductor company, the The CEO, as well as the General Managers business. Following this, our Chairman met Board encourages the Company and its and Senior Vice Presidents of each with shareholders in London and Frankfurt. employees to play a part in the communities business segments, are in frequent contact in which it operates. This includes engaging In addition, the Company consulted with top with our main customers. in activities with a direct link to the shareholders ahead of the publication of the Close R&D collaboration with many of our economic activity of the business such as new remuneration policy and after the AGM customers sits at the heart of our business the promotion of engineering education as in May 2019. model and helps us to create value. well as direct support for a wider range of Positive feedback was received from all local organisations. these activities and the Board intends to continue similar activities at regular intervals. See more on pages 50 and 51 Non-financial information statement The table below outlines where the key contents requirements of the Non-Financial Statement can be found: Policies and standards which Reference in Reporting requirements govern and inform our approach 2019 Annual Report Environmental matters –– ISO9001, ISO50001, ISO14001 Environmental responsibilities –– Quality, Environmental and Energy Policy pages 38 and 39 Employees –– Code of Business Conduct Our people and culture –– Country specific HR policies pages 32 to 35 Human rights –– Code of Business Conduct Robust and responsible supply –– Supplier Code of Conduct chain pages 44 to 47 –– Global Data Privacy Policy –– Conflict Minerals Policy Social matters –– Community engagement and Corporate Giving Programme Societal benefits pages 40 and 41 Anti-corruption and anti-bribery –– Code of Business Conduct Business ethics pages 48 and 49 –– Modern Slavery and Human Trafficking Statement –– Code of Dealing Business model –– n/a Business model pages 10 and 11 Principal risks and uncertainties –– Risk Management Charter Principal risks and uncertainties –– Confidential Information and Intellectual Property Policy pages 72 to 77 Non-financial key performance –– n/a KPIs pages 52 and 53 indicators 28 Annual report and accounts 2019 Strategic report United Nations Sustainable Development Goals (“UN SDGs”) Reporting scope and Dialog supports the UN SDGs with our existing programmes and technology that contribute to progress the boundary against six of the 17 SDG goals. The section below explains how the outputs of our business contribute The 2019 Annual report towards these six SDG goals: and accounts incorporates the strategic report and Output Output the consolidated Group Highly engaged, motivated and New IP and power-efficient differentiated financial statements, both of diverse workforce: mixed-signal ICs which have been approved by the Board of Directors (“the Board”). The strategic report represents our first steps towards aligning our reporting practices with Quality education Good health and well-being the International Integrated Dialog inspires the innovators of the future through Dialog is increasingly engaged in the connected Reporting (“IR”) Framework. our support for science, technology, engineering health segment with our short range connectivity and maths (“STEM”) subjects, particularly amongst technology. We are working with leading The materiality assessment female students. This includes our community pharmaceutical and medical equipment companies process (undertaken in engagement activities; student sponsorships; to develop next generation connected medical conjunction with a third party), collaboration with universities; our support for devices that improve people’s lives. and the list of material issues the Women in Engineering Society and the arising from stakeholder UK Electronics Skills Foundation; as well as See more on pages 24 and 25 engagement and analysis employee volunteering. of the external environment, Industry, innovation and infrastructure are disclosed on pages 30 Gender equality Innovation is at the core of our business and we and 31 of this report. Dialog takes equality and equal opportunity for all seek to sustain a healthy level of investment in the employees very seriously. In line with our corporate development of new products. Our focused R&D The contents of this report values we conduct business ethically, honestly, approach and close collaboration with leading are guided by the provisions and in full compliance with applicable laws and OEMs ensure we remain at the forefront of mixedof the Companies Act regulations. This applies to every business decision signal semiconductor technology with differentiated, 2006, the UK Corporate in every area of Dialog worldwide. The principles power-efficient mixed-signal products. Governance Code, and enshrined in our Code of Business Conduct the Disclosure Guidance promote openness, integrity and high ethical See more on pages 42 and 43 and Transparency Rules. standards in all business dealings. In April 2019, one of the leading consumer The report also applies the We are making efforts to raise awareness amongst electronics OEMs in the industry licensed certain Global Reporting Initiative women, both inside and outside the Company, of our main power management technologies. (“GRI”) Standards and of the exciting careers in engineering. makes a “GRI-referenced” Climate action claim, whereby the list of See more on pages 50 and 51 Our power-efficient technology helps to extend the GRI Standards referenced battery life of over a billion consumer applications. in this report are available in Decent work and economic growth Highly integrated designs reduce the number of the GRI Table on pages 190 As a business built on innovation, we recognise the components and materials consumption. and 191. Furthermore, we importance of investing in the development of our have mapped for the first time Although fabless, we seek to minimise our carbon employees. Dialog is committed to employing and our business outputs to the footprint and offset all travel CO2 emissions. developing those people who have the necessary United Nations Sustainable skills, experience and values to excel in their role. Development Goals (“UN Output Dialog is also making efforts to develop the talent Sustainable partner relationships SDGs”), and aim to continue of the future and our Graduate and Early Careers to focus our efforts on those Programme is key to this. goals where we can make the most meaningful contribution. Output Our approach to SDG High returns and strong cash flow generation mapping is set out below. Decent work and economic growth We expect all of our major suppliers to comply with Finally, this report our Supplier Code of Conduct. also represents our “Communication on Dialog is committed to fair wages, healthy and safe Progress” against the United working conditions, respect for human and labour Industry, innovation and infrastructure Nations Global Compact rights, and honest relationships. We have adopted As part of our strategic objectives, we reinvest cash (“UNGC”) ten principles, to the Responsible Business Alliance (“RBA”) standard in the organic development of new products and which we have been fully as part of our own Supplier Code of Conduct to technologies. We seek to maintain a focused and committed since 2012. ensure that working conditions for both external sustained investment in the R&D of highly integrated suppliers and employees are safe and that all power-efficient technologies which enhance energy workers are treated with respect and dignity. efficiency and reduce the consumption of materials. Read more on our supply chain on pages 44 to 47 Read more about our long-term financial targets on page 05 This is in addition to adopting principles from the International Labour Organisation Standards (“ILO”), Universal Declaration of Human Rights (“UDHR”), Social Accountability International (“SAI”), and the Ethical Trading Initiative (“ETI”). 29 Strategic report Dialog Semiconductor Plc Managing our resources and relationships Managing our resources and relationships to create a sustainable business model. Management Approach This section sets out high-level analysis of Vision During 2019 we continued to integrate the most material sustainability issues for sustainability management into our our business. It also provides details on To embed sustainable and responsible business activities. Human Resources, how we manage these issues as well as practices into the way we act internally Manufacturing, Business Development and selected data on how we have performed. and engage externally in order to Legal departments are responsible for the In 2019, we carried out a full materiality preserve and create long-term value management of their respective sustainability assessment which resulted in no major for a wide range of stakeholders. issues – and are subject to the oversight of changes. Our core material issues remained the Executive Committee. We believe this as in 2018. Nonetheless, feedback from is a better way to fully embed sustainability stakeholders resulted in adjusted scores for into the responsibilities – and actions – the following three topics: of managers throughout the Company. –– Diversity and equality continues to be The Sustainability Committee is comprised Applicable external of a representative of engineering, raised as an important topic for the technology industry, and we have seen standards human resources and investor relations – a growing interest in understanding who coordinate these activities. –– United Nations Global Compact what role we play towards increasing the (since 2012). Where sustainability management number of women in engineering; –– ISO14001 environmental management performance issues are of sufficient Read more on pages 50 and 51 system standard. importance, responsible departments –– ISO9001 quality management will report these directly to the Board –– Transparency in the supply chain was system standard. on an ad hoc basis. also discussed, both as an increasingly –– ISO50001 energy management important topic for our industry as well Our ongoing engagement with internal and as in relation to our ambition to expand system standard. external stakeholders helps us understand –– Global Reporting Initiative Standards our product portfolio and customer the impact of our activities and relationships base across automotive and industrial. (GRI Standards). on others – and how we can best manage Alongside continuing efforts from the these impacts in a responsible manner, as electronics industry, we are consistently well as the potential risks and opportunities. increasing the scope of our supplier This supports our ability to create value for all audits; and our stakeholders. Dialog 2019 Materiality Matrix Our bi-annual in-depth materiality 5.0 Value generation assessment did not result in any and distribution major changes to our core issues. During the interviews with our 4.5 stakeholders the following three Technological topics were raised as significant Product impacts innovation and agility focus points: 4.0 Intellectual –– Diversity and equality; Labour rights and human property rights (supply chain) –– Supply chain transparency; and Diversity and equality Compliance with Importance to stakeholders –– Energy and carbon emissions. Major customer standards 3.5 Additionally, in 2019 we renamed Conflict Employee development “Economic performance and minerals Enhancing the external skills pool Corporate governance impact” as “Value generation and compliance and distribution” in order to 3.0 Environmental impacts Transparency reflect the holistic nature of our (supply chain) (supply chain) Recruitment of Retention, morale professionals and engagement economic impact on a wide range and graduates of stakeholders. Significant Energy and carbon emissions 2.5 Corruption/bribery Philanthropy Key Health and safety Society 2.0 Pollution, resources Business ethics and waste Value chain Environment 1.5 Employees 1.0 Moderate 1.0 1.5 2.0 2.5 3.0 3.5 4.0 4.5 5.0 Impact on Dialog 30 Annual report and accounts 2019 Strategic report –– Energy and carbon emissions moved up –– Corporate governance: a wide range of Over the years, we have built strong and to the significant material issue quadrant external stakeholders, and in particular responsible relationships with our foundry, of the matrix. Although as a fabless investors, are placing further scrutiny on test, and packaging partners, as well as company, Dialog has a low carbon a number of ESG topics. Following the the communities within which we operate. footprint, several external stakeholders feedback of the investor perception study Over time, our engagement has evolved into raised the increasing importance of this we undertook in early 2019, our Chairman a close collaboration. area for the industry as a whole. met with shareholders in London and Dialog employees are based in many Frankfurt to discuss remuneration, longIn 2019, we took the first step towards the of the premises of our partners, further term strategy, diversity and various other development of an integrated annual report. strengthening these relationships. governance topics. We undertake annual audits of our existing During the year, we continued to strengthen fabrication partners covering operational our audit verification process relating to Our values define how we engage with and sustainability aspects to help ensure human and labour rights, health and safety, stakeholders these align to our expectations and and the environment. At Dialog, we are a team. We work together performance standards. with our internal and external stakeholders These are the issues that are most important and we aim to build strong long-term to our business and key stakeholders. Read more about our fabrication partners relationships. This is an important element on pages 44 to 47 Although our sustainability activities cover of our Company values. a wider range of topics, our efforts are We understand and care about our impact. primarily focused on these issues. Close R&D collaboration is at the heart of As a company, we are proud of the energy our customer relations. We work with the efficiency of our semiconductors and its In addition, external stakeholders raised the leading consumer electronics companies. positive impact in helping reduce power following two areas for further discussion: We engage with our customers to better consumption in consumer applications. –– Product impacts: the importance of understand their requirements and their managing product impacts throughout perception of the quality of the products As a publicly listed company, we aim to the entire product cycle was raised by we design for them. This helps us increase generate value for our shareholders and our external stakeholders on several the value we bring into our products and seek mutually beneficial relations with a occasions; and our performance. wide range of stakeholders who share the economic value created. Read more about our customers on pages 36 and 37 Read more about governance on pages 78 to 91 Our core material issues in 2019 Core material issues Change from 2018 Mapping to business issue Value generation and distribution Society Technological innovation and agility Society Intellectual property Business ethics Compliance with customer standards Value chain Product impacts Environment Labour rights and human rights (supply chain) Value chain Retention, morale and engagement Employees Employee development Employees Corporate governance and compliance Business ethics Diversity and equality Employees New material issue No change Re-prioritisation of material issues 31 Strategic report Dialog Semiconductor Plc Managing our resources and relationships continued Our people and culture “Our employees are a critical element of our competitive advantage, it is their expertise, experience and commitment that enables us to provide our customers with both world-class innovation, and flexible and dynamic support. To retain and motivate our valued employees, we provide a culture and environment that recognises each individual and gives them the best possible opportunity to have a productive and rewarding career.” Julie Pope Senior Vice President, Human Resources Named as one of top 100 most influential Women in Engineering, 2019 Context Management approach Employees in engineering functions As an engineering-led organisation, our business is strengthened by our ability to attract, retain and develop Responsibility for our people sits with the Senior Vice President, Human Resources. She is supported in this role by dedicated 77.3% high-quality professionals. Human Resources teams who focus on: New employees globally in 2019 2019 was a year of change for us with over 300 employees transferred to Apple as part of our 2018 Apple –– The application of human resource policies, tailored to reflect local legal requirements, business priorities and 459 (64 net reductions) agreement and 185 added with the labour markets; 2019 headcount acquisitions of FCI and Creative –– A Code of Business Conduct, which Chips. Supporting our employees with leadership and resources so that they feel engaged and excited sets out our minimum, Group-wide requirements in relation to labour and human rights and health and safety; 2,036 (2018: 2,100) about our future remains a priority –– Ongoing talent planning, development We are focused on maintaining a sustainable for us. In addition, our ongoing and identification of skills gaps; skills pipeline – ranging from the identification strategy to diversify our product –– Proactive engagement at university-level and recruitment of high-potential offering requires a heightened level to identify and recruit emerging talent; undergraduates through to the attraction of of change agility and collaboration. –– Ongoing identification and engagement experienced experts. We take a holistic view These are competencies that we of high-value professionals and leaders; towards both recruitment and retention that will be working with employees –– Diversity and inclusion to facilitate looks beyond the provision of competitive and leaders to grow and develop an environment in which different financial rewards. going forward. perspectives are valued; –– Delivering employee engagement and We aim to deliver the kind of working communication strategies to support environment, development opportunities business objectives; and and inclusive culture that allow our –– Rewarding high performance through people to develop high-quality, long-term effective and targeted compensation careers with us. Our workspaces offer our and benefit programmes. employees the highest standard of safety, comfort, technology and accessibility. 32 Annual report and accounts 2019 Strategic report Performance Overall workplace profile1 2019 2018 Permanent employees Employee turnover (%) Employee retention (%) 10.0 10.7 2,036 Manager retention rate 95.6 91.0 Full time Part time Overall employee retention rate 90.0 89.3 1,969 67 (2018: 2,028) (2018: 72) Engineering talent ratio (%) 77.3 76.1 Diversity (%) Women overall 19.1 17.6 Part-time employees 3.3 3.4 Number of nationalities 66 69 Male Female Ratios of standard entry level wage by gender compared 1,648 388 with local minimum wage at key operating sites (2018: 1,731) (2018: 369) 6.0 Temporary employees 5.0 5.36 42 4.0 Full time Part time 32 10 3.37 (2018: 31) (2018: 8) 3.0 2.68 2.0 2.13 2.07 1.0 Minimum wage met China Germany Netherlands UK USA Note: The standard entry level is the entry level for professionals after completed university education. Male Female Minimum wage figures used are the rates effective in January 2020. For the US the California minimum 24 18 wage rate has been used, and for China the Shenzhen minimum wage rate. (2018: 23) (2018: 16) 1 The temporary employee category is made up of employees on fixed-term contracts. Please note that Geographic distribution of workforce we do not make material use of workers who are legally recognised as self-employed. Europe North America 1,073 378 Asia 585 North America 311 67 Europe 875 198 Asia 462 123 As far as our recruitment and selection processes are concerned, and subject to any relevant regulatory restrictions, the national or sub-national origins of applicants is irrelevant. 33 Strategic report Dialog Semiconductor Plc Managing our resources and relationships continued Our people and culture continued Key issues and initiatives Coaching and developing is an important There is a small population of women in aspect of employee life at Dialog. We offer engineering and the electronic engineering Talent identification and recruitment employees a wide variety of development sector performs even lower in terms of We have a proactive recruitment model that opportunities and encourage a 70/20/10 gender diversity. Reflecting this external utilises multiple channels to attract the best development split of on the job learning position, women are also under-represented available talent. (70%), feedback and mentoring (20%) and in our workforce. Female representation on We run targeted recruitment campaigns to classroom learning (10%). our Board of Directors is 25%, and within ensure we are attracting talent at all levels on our Executive Team and their direct reports To ensure our employees maintain leadinga global scale. is 18%. edge technical capabilities, we invest heavily Key components of our recruitment in the development of Dialog’s engineering We acknowledge and respect differences approach include: population. In 2019, we continued to deliver between and within cultures and are key technical leadership skills development committed to promoting respect, fairness –– Targeted student sponsorships workshops for our analog, digital and and equal opportunity for all employees, and internships; technical populations. Engineers are able irrespective of their gender, race, ethnicity, –– Graduate recruitment from our to access development opportunities beliefs, sexual orientation, disability as well partner universities; appropriate to their needs through internally as diversity of thought and experience. –– Proactive search methodology to run courses, cross-functional projects approach and engage the most relevant In 2019, our global gender balance was and mentoring. talent; and 80.9% men to 19.1% women, a 1.5% –– “Always on” sourcing to ensure we are We also recognise the value of an external increase in female representation from 2018. continually pipelining the most sought after perspective, and facilitate attendance at Skills and professional expertise form the skills to support our business. key external courses and conferences. basis of Dialog’s recruitment processes, and We continually measure the impact of our job offers are gender-neutral, ensuring Our hiring programmes continued training by the percentage increase a bias-free selection. We remain committed successfully in 2019, with 20 graduate in competence. to encouraging more women to apply for new hires joining us globally. We continued roles within Dialog and participate in several our strategic partnership with University In addition to their accountabilities to our initiatives that support women in engineering. Technical College Swindon (“UTC Swindon”) customers, our managers and leaders coach and were delighted to again partner with the and mentor their own teams with technical In 2018 we began the Female at Dialog UK Electronic Skills Foundation (“UKESF”) in skills and advice. In support of this critical awards with UK Electronics Skills Foundation the United Kingdom supporting the Females population, we continue to expand the reach (“UKESF”), which included two engineers in Engineering programme. and scope of our manager development completing an internship during their programmes. In 2019, the total number first university summer break in 2019. of training hours for our managers was We are continuing with this in 2020 with Experienced hires 3,306, with an average of 13 training hours additional students with the aim to hire into In 2019, we welcomed 459 new employees per person. graduate roles. globally and successfully integrated FCI and Creative Chips employees into our In 2019, we partnered with the Women teams in Korea, China, Taiwan, Japan, Diversity and inclusion in Engineering Society (“WES”) to US and Germany. Diversity and inclusion are vital in work towards increasing the number maintaining a creative, dynamic and of women engineers in the Company. We are particularly proud that our efforts innovative business environment. Being partnered with WES has allowed in relation to retention have resulted in an We currently have operations in 15 our female employees to gain free improvement in attrition from 10.7% to 10.0%. countries, and we are proud that our membership and access to WES events. employees represent 66 nationalities. Ongoing talent, development We know the importance of attending We recognise the value a diverse workforce and succession planning external diversity events and we encourage can bring in terms of creativity, innovation our employees to attend events to learn Dialog continues to invest heavily in the and the sharing of new perspectives. from the market. In 2019 female engineering continuous development and career Dialog is committed to employing and managers and members of the HR team planning of our talent. Alongside our learning developing those people who have the attended the 2019 Women in Engineering curriculum, 2019 saw the introduction of necessary skills, experience and values Leadership Conference to further their the “Emerging Leaders Programme” which to excel in their roles – irrespective of understanding of best practice in this area. brought together a cohort of our high their gender, ethnicity, religion, disability potential managers, connecting them to or any other non-work related personal the Executive Team and tailored personal characteristic. In 2019, there were no development workshops to support allegations of discrimination made with their transition to leadership. We have respect to our employees. also partnered with Mindtools, one of the world’s leading online professional resources which gives all our employees real time access to best practice guides, coaching and supporting articles that enable their development. 34 Annual report and accounts 2019 Strategic report At this conference, it was announced that Employee engagement our SVP, Human Resources, Julie Pope, and communication was named as one of the top 100 Most Listening to our people is critical to our Forward focus areas Influential Women in the Engineering Sector. success as a company. This year we for 2020 The list is produced by board appointments launched a new engagement tool to take our firm Inclusive Boards in partnership with the employee engagement practice to the next –– Enhancing change agility Financial Times and recognises the actions level, moving away from the traditional annual through manager development we have taken at Dialog. survey model and into a platform that offers to ensure employees are a continuous listening strategy. supported and able to Our Senior Executive Team has visited thrive in our dynamic and different locations hosting Round Table In addition, in 2019, Nick Jeffery became the changing workplace. Meetings to gather feedback and opinions designated Director for overseeing employee –– Addressing employee on gender diversity at Dialog from our engagement in collaboration with our global engagement opportunities, workforce. We aim to continue these Human Resources teams and, in addition including taking steps to discussions in 2020 with the focus on to reviewing our engagement results, Nick create an environment additional diversity topics. and other members of the Board met with where employee flexibility is employees as an extension of one of the encouraged and enabled. Equal pay is an area which we monitor Board meetings. –– Heightening our focus on closely and our salary systems, regular reviews and processes are designed to avoid We launched our refreshed 2019 Global diversity initiatives, specifically to any gender-based discrimination. engagement survey in October and address female representation were thrilled that 85% of our global in our organisation. For the third year running we will be reporting workforce shared their feedback, our our gender pay gap statistics, as they relate highest ever employee participation to our total UK population as at 5 April 2019. and 6% up on our last survey in 2017. As required by the UK Equality Act 2010 Our overall employee engagement (“Gender Pay Gap Information”) Regulations score, along with participation also hit 2017, we submit data to the UK government a record high globally with an average via their website. score of 72%. Read more about the gender pay gap on our In our continued journey to enable our website at www.dialog-semiconductor.com managers and leaders with information, We will continue to focus on how we can we have approached actioning employee improve diversity within Dialog and to further feedback by distributing accountability our efforts we have appointed a Diversity across our management and leadership and Inclusion lead within our HR department teams. All managers received feedback to work across the organisation and build a specific to their team, all sites received channel for listening to our diverse population feedback relevant to their location, and and implementing changes. the Executive Team composed corporate level goals. Since this appointment some of the actions have included: Employee reward and recognition –– Defined an annual calendar of events We offer market-competitive pay and to celebrate and raise awareness of employee benefits, along with opportunities diversity globally. for individual and team recognition, all within –– Enhanced our recruitment efforts in the a supportive working environment. area of diversity including, a commitment We regularly benchmark our pay and to continue to work with our university benefits against the employment markets partners to increase the pipeline of female in which we operate. This includes in-depth engineers in Dialog. We are keen to analysis of total compensation offered by our continue to raise awareness of our exciting direct competitors, both global and local, to career opportunities amongst women, ensure that our offering remains competitive. both inside and outside the Company. –– Improved our parental leave policies in Our compensation programmes include the UK, with the intention to extend this shortand long-term share and cash-based globally in further support of a diverse and bonus plans that allow us to differentiate inclusive working culture. levels of reward, recognising critical skills and high performance. We encourage regular recognition and utilise a formal recognition programme which allows managers to recognise and reward those employees who have gone above and beyond. 35 Strategic report Dialog Semiconductor Plc Managing our resources and relationships continued The strength of our customer relationship “In line with our values, we seek to establish long-standing relationships with our customers. Our technical expertise, partnership approach, operational flexibility and the quality of our products are key sources of value to them.” John Teegen Senior Vice President, Worldwide Sales Context Management approach Performance Close R&D collaboration with our Our corporate values support us in building Revenue from our top five customers customers enhances our innovation strong relationships with our customers. represented 84% of the total Group capacity and creates strong and We also invest significant time to get to revenue in 2019 (2018: 83%; 2017: 82%;). long lasting customer relations. know each other and seek to achieve mutual We recognise there is a risk associated with Our customers want our focused benefits on an ongoing basis. this level of customer concentration, and the innovation, technical expertise, revenue derived from our largest customer high integration and fast product Read more about our values on page 05 (Apple Inc.) is shown on page 172, note 35c. development and support. Given the The Dialog Management Team cultivates See details of customer concentration in the speed of technological change in our key relationships with all our top customers. Risk section on page 73. markets, our focus is to develop and We build those relationships on the solid retain long-term relationships with foundations of the tangible benefits our During 2019, we closed the agreement with all our major customers, adopting technology brings (such as a low power Apple Inc. announced in October 2018. a true partnership approach. configurable or customised silicon coupled Since closing the agreement with Apple, with a fast time-to-market) and excellent we were awarded several new designs customer support. in an expanded product area of focus for Dialog, which is a testament to the strength Our top five customers in 2019 were, Apple, and quality of our mixed-signal technology, Samsung, Xiaomi, Panasonic, and Vivo. and strong relationship. The addition of These are multi-year relationships, and in two acquisitions in 2019 (FCI and Creative some cases, they extend over ten years. Chips) is accelerating our expansion in our We supply a diverse and expanding range of target end-markets. In addition, the widening products to most of our largest customers. Dialog product portfolio allows us to not only Our aim, aligned with our corporate values, address a larger customer base but deepen is to become a strategic supplier and ensure our penetration in our current key customers. a mutually beneficial relationship. The value we bring is built on a combination of leadingedge products and excellent support. 36 Annual report and accounts 2019 Strategic report Key issues and initiatives Further information on our supply chain auditing activity can be found on pages As a supplier of semiconductors to 44 to 47. F  orward focus areas manufacturers of sophisticated electronic The performance of our suppliers against in 2020 goods, we are subject to a significant body of technical, legal, social responsibility, and these is assessed by the following Dialog –– Continue to broaden our quality control requirements defined by departments on an ongoing basis: customer base. our customers. –– Quality and Environmental: Quality –– Deliver best-in-class engineering, physical laboratory, customer support. In many cases, our compliance with these –– Undertaking targeted actions to requirements is included as a condition of quality and environment system; –– Global Manufacturing Operations: address customer complaints contract with our customers – making our and eliminate the recurrence of strict adherence essential. This is particularly Test development, offshore operations and assembly development; and any issues. the case with respect to the technical –– Adherence to technical, social specifications and quality of our highly –– Supply Chain and Value Management: Global procurement, supply chain responsibility and quality sophisticated products. Any slight variation control requirements. is not only likely to render them valueless and trade compliance, customs and from the perspective of our customers, but foreign trade. also has the potential to undermine our Similarly, our customers typically apply customers’ own products (and thus brands). their own set of compliance measures to Because of this, we put a significant amount ensure we are meeting their requirements. of energy into understanding our customers’ This includes auditing of: extensive requirements and applying –– Our management systems, processes and comprehensive management systems to facility specifications; ensure that these are fully met by both the –– The communication of their own standards design of our products, as well as their to our manufacturing partners and their production by our fabrication partners. application in practice; This includes, for example: –– Product testing processes –– The posting of Dialog’s personnel at our and documentation; fabrication partners’ sites to monitor –– Materials and product traceability; and production activities; –– Possible contamination of products by –– An extensive range of operational quality disallowed substances. control measures through which we We evaluate customer satisfaction with the assess our fabrication partners; quality and specifications of our products –– Regular business reviews with our on an ongoing basis, using: manufacturing partners to understand their performance and future capabilities; –– Individual reviews; and –– Analysis of any customer complaints; and –– Ongoing annual auditing of our –– Customer surveys. manufacturing partners, including against the following management system standards (as well as our Suppliers Control Plan): –– ISO9001 (quality management); –– IATF 16949 (quality management); –– ISO14001 (environmental); –– ISO45001 (health and safety); –– ANSI/ESD S20.20 (electrostatic discharge control); and –– Responsible Business Alliance Code of Conduct. Our target end markets We are focused on high-growth segments of our target end markets. Internet of Things Computing & storage Automotive Mobile Industrial 37 Strategic report Dialog Semiconductor Plc Managing our resources and relationships continued Environmental responsibility “Although fabless, we seek to minimise the carbon footprint of our business activities. The Environmental Goals Programme sets our environmental objectives for the year, including clear actions and targets to ensure we can monitor our progress and stay on track.” Alex McCann Senior Vice President, Global Operations Context Management approach Each of our major sites systematically measures and records our carbon Our products themselves are We operate responsible practices within emissions, waste and recycling on a monthly based around a range of energyour own business and promote them basis. This reporting system is utilised to efficient IC solutions, and we across our supply chain. Responsibility for ensure that we closely monitor outputs aim to have a positive impact on environmental performance sits with our from our major offices to minimise our the wider environment through Senior Vice President, Global Manufacturing environmental impact. the development and marketing Operations. We govern our environmental responsibility through the application of the In 2019, we strengthened our Environmental of energy-saving technology. Dialog Code of Conduct, which addresses and Energy Policy. Our management is We make ongoing efforts to our emissions to air and water, resource use, committed to the prevention of pollution by minimise our: management of hazardous substances and volatile organic compounds. –– Energy consumption and waste management. carbon emissions. –– Pollution and waste. We are certified to the ISO14001 –– Use of natural resources. environmental management standard, and our Company Quality and Management Manual supports our efforts to achieve continuous improvement. At our facilities in Germany we have implemented a new energy management system, achieving ISO50001 certification. This is a comprehensive tool to control energy efficiency within our internal facilities and equipment. 38 Annual report and accounts 2019 Strategic report Performance Key issues and initiatives Energy and carbon emissions Pollution, resources and waste We are working across our offices to significantly reduce carbon emissions and minimise The monitoring of hazardous substances the carbon footprint of our business. This year, we have offset 100% of carbon emissions used in our labs is one of the key objectives from all air travel and the use of rental cars from our two main technical competence centres of our annual “Environment Goals – Nabern and Swindon. We work with Climate Care to offset carbon emissions through Programme”. The programme sets our various renewable energy projects in Taiwan, Turkey and India. environmental objectives for the year and is approved by the CEO. Each objective includes a number of actions and targets Scope 1* which are regularly monitored. Direct emissions from Total Per employee self‑generation. 60.8 0.03 Recycling We recycle metals, such as gold, silver and 2019 2019 copper, from waste and damaged products. 81.2 0.04 Our major sites, such as our Swindon 2018 2018 design centre, measure our recycling levels by type of waste, waste recovery levels and the level of waste sent to landfill sites. This allows us to calculate the percentage of recycling, the amount of energy recovered, and the number of trees we have saved on a monthly basis. Use of natural resources We understand that the scarcity of natural Scope 2* resources is an important consideration Indirect emissions from Total Per employee for our business and we aim to reduce the consumption of purchased electricity, 1,011.3 0.50 or substitute their use in our operations wherever possible. Dialog continues to heat or steam. 2019 2019 identify potential methods to improve 1,170.3 0.56 existing technologies and to substitute gold 2018 2018 for copper, to minimise our impact on the environment, and reduce costs without sacrificing quality and performance.  orward focus areas F in 2020 –– Achieving the objectives Scope 3 Total Per employee of our 2020 Environmental Other indirect emissions Goals Programme. including those related to transport. Includes all air 3,709.6 1.82 –– Continue our efforts to reduce 2019 2019 carbon emissions, pollution travel and car hire. and waste, and the use of 4,203.6 1.99 natural resources. 2018 2018 –– Continue our efforts to reduce carbon emissions, pollution and waste, and the use of natural resources. * Emissions from our two largest technical competence centres – Nabern and Swindon. 39 Strategic report Dialog Semiconductor Plc Managing our resources and relationships continued Societal benefits “Supporting the development of our skills pool is vital to promote the next generation of innovators. Dialog is collaborating with universities, industry bodies and engineering organisations to promote the knowledge of engineering electronics in our local communities.” Julie Pope Senior Vice President, Human Resources Named as one of top 100 most influential Women in Engineering, 2019 Context Management approach Beyond this, we also carry out community engagement and investments, and Like any business, we seek to We are committed to having a positive philanthropy. Although these do not generate profit for our shareholders. impact at a local level. Our most material represent material issues, such activity is in In pursuit of this aim, we also issue in this respect is the enhancement line with our corporate values, the “Spirit of generate broader economic value, of local skills pools. This not only benefits Dialog”, and our broader corporate values, much of which is distributed to school and university students by enhancing and helps support our corporate reputation. a wider set of stakeholders – their engineering capabilities, but also including employees, suppliers, host strengthens our own ability to recruit talented Read more about our values on page 05 governments and other beneficiaries. new graduates and support our long-term Responsibility for our direct and indirect skills pipeline. We help promote electronic Our position at the forefront performance sits with our Chief Executive engineering skills in our local communities of semiconductor R&D means Officer and Chief Financial Officer (with through a range of means, including: we are constantly helping to respect to our economic performance). advance scientific knowledge in –– The provision of sponsorship and access this area – laying the ground for bursaries to engineering students at the future technological innovation, universities of Edinburgh, UK Electronic whether by ourselves or others. Skills Foundation (“UKESF”), and Women Likewise, the nature of our products in Engineering Society; means we play an integral role –– Key partnerships with University Technical in helping millions of end-users College Swindon (“UTC Swindon”), access affordable and lifeincluding the provision of an enterprise enhancing technology. adviser, in the United Kingdom and the UKESF; –– Industrial placements for undergraduate students in global offices; and –– Mentoring and support of school students. 40 Annual report and accounts 2019 Strategic report Performance Indirect impacts In addition to our direct economic impacts, Direct impacts we also generate a range of indirect F  orward focus areas Our most important means of distributing economic impacts, including through: in 2020 value are through: –– The application of our technology to –– Attracting female talent to STEM –– Payments to our employees and employed improve the capabilities and portability subjects and to our industry contractors (including both wages of handheld electronic devices (amongst through our collaboration with and benefits); others). This enhances the ability of universities, industry bodies and –– Payments to other businesses, our customers to develop and market engineering organisations. including our fabrication partners and enhanced consumer products – as –– Continue the development of other suppliers; reflected in the recent boom in advanced community engagement activities. –– Payments to government, including taxes; mobile communications and wearable –– Community investment spending; and technology. In turn, this has helped support –– Payments to our providers of capital. the creation and maintenance of jobs The table below shows how much value amongst suppliers and customers working we generated over the last three years – in this exciting sector. Furthermore, it and how it was distributed. also supports the delivery of ever-more productive and portable communications Community engagement and computing technology to end-users. and corporate giving In 2019, for example, we shipped in excess Dialog has an active community engagement of 2.5 billion integrated circuits; and and community investment programme, –– The enhancement of skills and knowledge and in 2019 we invested approximately within the electronic engineering US$101,000 to various causes aligned with community through our range of preour business objectives (2018: US$154,000). employment educational initiatives, our The Corporate Giving Policy encourages recruitment and development of highemployees to engage with the communities quality graduate electronics engineers, in which they work. The policy places a the experience our senior engineers gain stronger emphasis on activities to which by working on cutting-edge products we can bring additional value through our and our considerable investment in R&D. expertise and business activities. Further details on how we manage our direct Given the ongoing opportunities for the and indirect economic value generation expansion of our business, as well as the and distribution, as well as our research ever increasing demand for advanced and development activities, can be found semiconductor technology, this positive throughout this report. impact is expected to grow. Total value generation and distribution by type (US$ millions) 2017 2018 2019 Economic value generated 1,352.8 1,442.1 1,566.2 Economic value distributed 1,183.1 1,304.2 1,320.8 Operating costs1 881.3 933.7 906.6 Employee wages and benefits 2 274.5 311.2 318.6 Payments to providers of capital 1.3 3.1 11.3 Payments to government 25.8 56.0 84.1 Community investments 0.2 0.2 0.1 Economic value retained 169.7 137.9 245.5 1 Excluding employee wages and benefits and property tax. 2 Including share-based payments. 41 Strategic report Dialog Semiconductor Plc Managing our resources and relationships continued Our IP and products “Dialog has been at the forefront of powerefficient mixed-signal technology since the beginning of the mobile computing revolution. Along the way we have amassed a rich IP portfolio of energy-saving technologies which meet the requirements of our customers and of end-users, making applications more energy-efficient.” Mark Tyndall Senior Vice President, Corporate Development and Strategy Context Management approach Performance Our products are based around a We are advancing mixed-signal circuit Protecting intellectual property range of power-efficient integrated technology in a range of areas, including: In 2019 we had no complaints relating to circuit (“IC”) solutions, and we breaches of customer privacy, losses of –– Mobile power management; aim to have a positive impact on customer data or the misuse of customers’ –– Power conversion; the wider environment through intellectual property (2018: nil; 2017: nil). –– Bluetooth® low energy connectivity; and the development and marketing –– Configurable mixed-signal ICs. of energy-saving technology. Number of United States patents Given the rapid evolution of technology (registered and filed) in each given year The protection of intellectual and fast-moving consumer demands, (non-cumulative) property is vital for any business the sustainability of our business requires focused on the creation of innovative us to stay at the cutting edge of these 2017 2018 2019 and high-value technological technologies. As a result, we invest a Registered 94 102 128 solutions. Any failure in this regard significant amount into R&D. In 2019 we could have profound consequences Filed 112 119 119 invested US$314 million on R&D activities for the value of our inventions, or 20.0% of our total revenue (2018: products and our Company. As at 31 December 2019 we had US$326 million, 2017: US$303 million; Furthermore, our semiconductors approximately 1,080 inventions (2018: 2018: 22.6% of revenue, 2017: 22.4%). are specifically designed for approximately 860; 2017: approximately 800) integration as components into The Senior Vice President and General for which we are pursuing or have already our customers’ own products. Manager of each business is responsible for obtained patent protection, 830 (2018: 673; This means we necessarily technological innovation. 2017: 574) of which have already been access and work with customers’ granted in the United States. While We ensure that all intellectual property is intellectual property and/or intellectual property protection around this safeguarded through the application of: commercial and technological technology means it will not be shared in the secrets. This requires a high degree –– A dedicated Intellectual Property Policy short to medium term, in the long term it is of trust on the part of our customers, (as well as related Information Technology technology that can be applied by anyone. whose business we would lose were and Intellectual Property Security As a result of this kind of investment, we this trust to be broken. Policies). Together, these address issues produce original technological inventions such as data security, the regulation on an ongoing basis. This not only helps of external communications and underpin the future success of our business, incident management; but also increases the sum of our global –– Related restrictive provisions in both technological knowledge. our Code of Business Conduct and our contracts of employment; –– Robust information technology systems to prevent data leakage; and –– Access controls to specific project data for employees and third parties. 42 Annual report and accounts 2019 Strategic report Key issues and initiatives Positive product impacts The technology that we design, develop and market supports our business partners in the provision of advanced, affordable technology to consumers in a range of global massmarkets. This includes: –– Personal, portable computing devices; –– IoT applications; –– LED backlighting and solid state lighting; –– Automotive infotainment and ADAS; and –– Industrial ethernet. In this context, our products offer a range of advantages to end-users (and, by extension, our customers who are selling to them). These include: –– Power management: Greater power efficiency, resulting in longer battery life and increased mobility. For example, typical usage tests suggest our Power Minimisation of negative Trademarks Management Integrated Circuits decrease product impacts With an expanded portfolio of patented the power consumption of smartphones, The nature of our integrated circuits means technology, Dialog leverages years of tablets and Ultrabooks™ by up to 30%; that their actual and potential negative research and development in digital, –– Power conversion: Our high efficiency impacts are relatively limited. Nonetheless, mixed‑signal and analog circuits to bring AC/DC power converters and LED we design our products in a way that helps innovative, power-efficient products backlight drivers help maximise power to minimise any negative impacts they might to market. conversion efficiency using digital have over their lifecycle. This includes efforts technology and fewer components. GreenPak™ SmartBeat™ to reduce the size of our integrated circuits This includes converters that use little or (thus reducing the amount of input materials PrimAccurate™ SmartPulse™ no power while on standby – a particularly required, as well as the amount of packaging SmartBond™ SmartWave™ important aspect given that standby used to protect and ship them). In addition, Flickerless™ BroadLED™ demand consumes more than 100 billion and as described above, we aim to make kilowatt-hours of electricity annually AccuSwitch™ SmarteXite™ our integrated circuits as energy-efficient as in the United States alone (enough to possible – while also enhancing the energy VirtualZero™ SmartBond TINY™ power more than nine million American efficiency of the larger products into which households); and they are incorporated. –– Connectivity: Our Bluetooth® low energy, SmartBond™ SoCs, helps extend the Given the important role our integrated F  orward focus areas circuits play in managing the power battery life of relevant wireless products by up to 100% – reducing overall power supply of more than a billion consumer in 2020 usage and enhancing the mobility of end‑products, we place significant emphasis –– The ongoing protection of our connected products. on ensuring they do not pose any health and intellectual property. safety risks to end-users. –– Management and rationalisation of our portfolio of patents and trademarks. 43 Strategic report Dialog Semiconductor Plc Managing our resources and relationships continued Robust and responsible supply chain “Over the years, we have developed strong and sustainable relationships with our manufacturing partners. This approach is at the heart of our business and supports a continuous quality improvement process which is highly valued by our customers.” Alex McCann Senior Vice President, Global Operations Context Management approach We manage our value chain through: Dialog employees are based in many of the –– A policy of only dealing with fabrication We operate a high-touch fabless premises of our partners. We undertake partners who are accredited to or business model and we have annual audits of our existing fabrication are compliant with the ISO14001 developed strong and responsible partners covering operational and (environment) and ISO9001 (quality) relationships with our foundry, test and sustainability aspects. management standards; packaging partners. Over time, our –– Screening all new fabrication partners engagement has evolved into close In addition, we outsource our wafer against our Self-Audit Checklist (which R&D and supply chain collaboration. production to leading foundries, mostly covers labour and human rights, health Given the nature of our business model in Taiwan and China, such as TSMC and and safety, the environment and business and our commercial relationships, Global Foundries. They provide high-quality ethics), as well as undertaking prevalue chain management is a products and have the ability to meet both qualification audits prior to the integration particularly important issue for Dialog. our stringent qualification requirements and of new fabrication partners into our This not only includes operational our tight deadlines. Over the years, we have supply chain; aspects (including the avoidance and worked closely with TSMC to introduce new –– Annual auditing (by joint Dialog and mitigation of supply chain disruption manufacturing technologies for our highlythird-party auditing teams) of all existing and supply constraints), but also integrated power management ICs, fabrication partners against our Supplier sustainability aspects such as: such as 130 nanometre Bipolar Audit Checklist and Corporate Social CMOS DMOS (“BCD”). Responsibility Checklist. In addition –– The impact of our business partners The final assembly of our chips is outsourced to requirements relating to ISO14001, on human rights and labour rights; to a number of qualified subcontractors ISO45001 and ISO9001, auditing –– Health and safety performance in Asia. covers a range of broader corporate amongst our suppliers; and social responsibility issues, including –– The environmental impacts of both Our test programmes, which are based those drawn from the SA8000 social our suppliers and the contents of on our own and individual customers’ accountability standard. In 2019, we our products. specifications, are developed by our test carried out 31 supplier audits on this basis engineers in parallel with the design process. (2018: 22; 2017:18); and This reflects: Leveraging the outsourcing model to its –– Regular business reviews, during –– Evolving stakeholder expectations, fullest for volume manufacturing, we still which Dialog managers meet with our which place ever-growing emphasis retain an in-house prototype test facility, suppliers to discuss performance and on the need for companies to identify, including physical analysis capabilities. future capabilities. and use their legitimate influence to This enables fast ramping to volume proactively manage, their indirect manufacturing at the foundry and at sustainability impacts; and packaging and test sub-contractors. As a –– Dialog’s duty to help protect its result, we can achieve best-in-class industry own customers from reputational, yields and extremely high-quality and reliable contractual or commercial harm. products. Equally important, it allows us to minimise the scope of tests required and the device test time, helping to reduce unit costs. 44 Annual report and accounts 2019 Strategic report In addition, our customers carry out their –– Suppliers are achieving a level of Key issues and initiatives own auditing both on Dialog and our performance that is in line with our suppliers. This is to ensure that: customers’ requirements (including Transparency those around supplier environmental Value chain transparency is vital for the –– Dialog is effectively communicating maintenance of predictable sourcing and performance, for example); and customer standards to our suppliers – and marketing activities, as well as the avoidance –– The products supplied to customers meet has adequate systems in place to monitor and/or minimisation of any negative indirect any relevant sustainability criteria that the their ongoing application in practice; impacts to which we might otherwise customer has committed itself to (including those relating to the type and source of contribute. This includes impacts relating input materials, for example). to human rights, labour rights, health and safety, and the environment. Performance This is a particularly important issue for Proportion of major fabrication partners screened/audited for sustainability Dialog, due to: performance by issue type (new fabrication partners screened1/existing –– Our fabless business model, which fabrication partners audited2) makes us highly reliant on the ability of our fabrication partners to meet the stringent 100% 100% 100% 100% quality requirements imposed on us by 2019 2019 2019 2019 our customers; –– High levels of sensitivity amongst key 100% 100% 100% 100% consumer-facing electronics brands 2018 2018 2018 2018 regarding their potential exposure to 100% 100% 100% 100% reputational risk via their supply chains; 2017 2017 2017 2017 and –– Increasing stakeholder scrutiny of the electronics industry regarding indirect negative impacts taking place at lower, less visible tiers of the supply chain (including amongst sub-suppliers) – Health and safety Environment Labour rights Society particularly in relation to mineral extraction, trading and processing. In 2019, we continued with our main fabrication partners to apply tightened requirements and auditing criteria. A significant decrease in the number of major negative audit findings relative In this context, we require our major to 2018 shows that our suppliers have undergone successful continuous improvement suppliers to: programmes to address previous findings and are monitoring ongoing effectiveness. –– Provide assurance regarding their This strengthened audit process helps us manage the expansion of our business and the compliance with our Supplier Code ability to integrate additional suppliers to the scope of our audits. of Conduct through Self-Assessment Our customers can be confident in the quality and sustainability of our supply chain. Questionnaires, validation audits and the provision of documentation; Type and number of “major” negative audit findings3 2017 2018 20195 –– Maintain membership of the Responsible Health and safety 6 7 26 Business Alliance’s (“RBA”) online data Environment 2 5 34 management system (“RBA-ON”); and Labour rights (incl. human rights) 3 20 27 –– Complete and return information regarding Society 0 0 0 the origin of potential conflict minerals integrated into parts supplied to Dialog. 1 Screening activity is aimed at improving the performance of our fabrication partners where necessary, rather than their exclusion from our supply chain. In addition, we assign at least one Dialog 2 Includes both documentary auditing and on-site auditing. All our fabrication partners were subjected to auditing in 2019. representative to each of the fabrication 3 i.e. audit findings of sufficient seriousness that Dialog requires immediate correction on the part of the supplier. 4 Such as: application of customer specific testing criteria on boundary noise, stormwater and chemical materials more strict plants producing integrated circuits for than international standards. us. This allows us to clearly communicate 5 Decreased numbers reflect successful improvements due to the strengthening of our audit process throughout the past two years. our operational, quality control and 6 Such as: requirements of Personal Protective Equipment in hazardous waste handling. sustainability requirements to our partners 7 Such as: working hours management and regulations on dormitory leaving. on an ongoing basis, while also identifying Examples of negative audit findings in 2019 and (in partnership with our fabrication partners) proactively addressing any issues Health and safety Insufficient signage of some hazardous waste areas of potential concern. Environment Stormwater management Labour rights (incl. human rights) Too strict regulations on dormitory leaving Society None In 2019, neither our own operations nor any of our significant suppliers were found to pose a significant social or environmental risk (2018: nil; 2017: nil). In 2019, as in previous years, we did not identify any cases where tungsten, tin, tantalum and gold (“3TG”) integrated into our products may have supported armed groups in the Democratic Republic of Congo (“DRC”) or adjoining countries. 45 Strategic report Dialog Semiconductor Plc Managing our resources and relationships continued Robust and responsible supply chain continued Our Supplier Code of Conduct Dialog Code of Business Conduct Environmental management We expect all of our major suppliers to https://www.dialog-semiconductor.com/ It is important that our fabrication partners comply with our Supplier Code of Conduct. sites/default/files/csr-aa-001_dialog_code_ respect the environment. This is why We extend related requirements to our of_business_conduct_-_v5_august_2019_ we will only work with suppliers who are major suppliers through the application final.pdf accredited to, or comply with, the ISO14001 of our Supplier Code of Conduct, which environmental management system Health and safety incorporates the requirements of the standard. This includes pollution prevention, The highly regulated and automated nature RBA. This comprehensive document reporting, hazardous substances, waste and of our fabrication partners’ plants, as well as imposes minimum standards with respect wastewater management, and emissions the mature nature of their health and safety to labour rights, health and safety, and to air. management systems, means that their environmental management. risk profile is relatively low compared with Under our Supplier Code of Conduct (and Labour rights many assembly plants higher up the value related RBA Code), our major suppliers are Dialog’s suppliers must demonstrate a chain (where chips are integrated into larger required to: commitment to upholding workers’ human consumer products). –– Comply with relevant environmental laws rights and to treating them with dignity and Nonetheless, we work with our major and regulations; respect. In addition to key requirements suppliers to ensure that risks, wherever –– Minimise their use of resources (including around the International Labor Organization present, are minimised. In this context, water and energy) and their generation of (“ILO”) core labour standards (relating to the Dialog Code of Business Conduct and solid waste and wastewater; forced labour, child labour, discrimination Supplier Code of Conduct (including the –– Identify and safely manage hazardous and freedom of association/collective related RBA Code) require our suppliers, materials. This includes the provision of bargaining), the Dialog Code of Conduct also amongst other things, to: relevant materials declarations under requires our major suppliers to: EU Directive 2011/65/EU (Restriction of –– Minimise worker exposure to potential –– Follow relevant national law with respect Hazardous Substances or “RoHS3”) health and safety risks, including through to working hours, holiday entitlements and and EU Regulation (EC) 1907/2006 the application of design, engineering the outsourcing of labour; and (Registration, Evaluation, Authorisation and and administrative controls (including –– Ensure workers are not subject to physical Restriction of Chemicals or “REACH”); safe work procedures, training and the or verbal abuse, bullying, or any form of –– Responsibly manage solid waste encouragement of employees to raise unlawful harassment and intimidation. (including through recycling) and related concerns), as well as the provision wastewater (including through treatment The Dialog Code of Business Conduct of protective equipment where necessary; prior to discharge, ongoing monitoring is directly informed in this respect by the –– Apply systems to prevent, manage, track and the control of discharges to local following instruments and standards: and report health and safety incidents, water bodies); including the proper recording of all –– Universal Declaration of Human Rights; –– Responsibly manage emissions to air cases of occupational injury and illness, –– ILO International Labour Standards; (including volatile organic chemicals, the provision of medical treatment and –– UN Global Compact; aerosols, corrosives, particulates, ozone the development and implementation of –– RBA Code of Conduct; and depleting chemicals and combustion bycorrective action plans; –– SA8000 Social Accountability Standard. products) and minimise their greenhouse –– Implement emergency planning and gas emissions; and response measures, including evacuation –– Adhere to all applicable laws, regulations procedures, the provision of fire and customer requirements regarding detection and suppression equipment, the exclusion of specific substances the maintenance of adequate exits and in products and manufacturing. recovery planning; and We are continuing to work with our –– Control the exposure of workers to major suppliers to develop recovery hazardous substances and to physically processes, and resource substitution demanding tasks. technologies and other methods to reduce greenhouse gas emissions throughout the supply chain. 46 Annual report and accounts 2019 Strategic report Our Supplier Business ethics As such, our Conflict Minerals Policy Code of Conduct Business ethics includes business commits us to: integrity, intellectual property, competition, –– Supporting the aims and objectives of whistleblowing and conflict minerals. those provisions of the US Dodd-Frank Act Labour Management systems 2010 that relate to 3TG; Including policies, lines of accountability, –– Not knowingly procuring 3TG minerals rights compliance mechanisms, risk assessment, from the DRC or adjoining countries that Including the International training, auditing and sub-suppliers. are not certified to be “conflict free”; Labor Organization (“ILO”) –– Asking our suppliers to undertake By requiring our suppliers to comply with the core labour standards, reasonable supply chain due diligence to RBA requirements, Dialog helps cascade working hours, wages and ensure that they only use 3TG that is: (1) good practice throughout its supplier base benefits, and the treatment of sourced from outside the DRC or adjoining and minimise its indirect negative impacts. employees in the workplace. countries; or (2) sourced from within the By doing so, we not only protect our own DRC or adjoining countries and which is reputation, but also the reputation of our certified by an independent third party to customers – some of whom are potentially Health vulnerable to consumer activism. be “conflict free”; –– Provide reasonable assurance that the and safety www.responsiblebusiness.org/standards/ 3TG in the products they manufacture Including occupational health code-of-conduct do not directly or indirectly finance or and safety, emergency benefit armed groups that perpetrate Responsibility in this respect sits preparedness, industrial serious human rights abuses in DRC or its with the Senior Vice President Global hygiene, living conditions adjoining countries; and Manufacturing Operations. He is supported and physical safeguards. –– Carry out due diligence on the source and in this role on a day-to-day basis by the chain of custody of their 3TG and make Environmental Manager. these due diligence measures available to Environmental customers when requested. Conflict minerals management Further up the supply chain, we have a policy In addition, our Supplier Code of Conduct Including pollution prevention, relating to conflict materials. requires suppliers to complete and return reporting, hazardous information requests regarding the origin We support international efforts to ensure of any 3TG contained in products supplied substances, waste and that the mining and trading of tin, tungsten, wastewater management, to Dialog. The Conflict Minerals Reporting tantalum and gold (known as “3TG”) from Template (“CMRT”) is created by the and emissions to air. high-risk locations does not contribute to Responsible Minerals Initiative (“RMI”) conflict and/or serious human rights abuses supporting companies to deliver accurate in the Democratic Republic of the Congo Ethics (“DRC”) and the Great Lakes region of Africa information to their customers about mineral country of origin and the smelters and Including business integrity, (or elsewhere). refiners they use. Dialog Semiconductor intellectual property, Although we are not subject to the conflict requires from its suppliers to complete and competition, whistleblowing minerals reporting requirements set out return the latest CMRT 5.12 regarding the and conflict minerals. in Section 1502 of the US Dodd-Frank origin of any 3TG contained in products Act, many of our customers are. In this supplied to us. Our QA & Environmental context, we are committed to providing our Systems Lead Auditors frequently audit Management customers with assurance by: the suppliers on this topic and check systems –– Identifying whether any 3TG in our their compliance. Including policies, products has originated from the DRC If we do identify 3TG in our products lines of accountability, or adjoining countries; that originate from the DRC or adjoining compliance mechanisms, –– (If it has), understanding whether the 3TG countries, and which may have financed risk assessment, training, in our products has financed or otherwise or benefited armed groups, we will carry auditing and sub-suppliers. benefited armed groups; and out further due diligence. If this shows –– Disclosing the results of this process to that the 3TG has financed or benefited our customers. armed groups, it will be excluded from our supply chain. By requiring its suppliers to comply with the RBA requirements, Dialog helps “cascade” good practice throughout its supplier base and minimise its indirect negative impacts. By doing so, it is not only protecting its own reputation, but also the reputation of its customers – some of whom are potentially vulnerable to consumer activism. 47 Strategic report Dialog Semiconductor Plc Managing our resources and relationships continued Business ethics “Our Code of Business Conduct reflects the values of our business. Employees, partners, consultants, and others who do business with Dialog are expected to apply our four main principles: honesty, respect, confidentiality and compliance.” Colin Sturt Senior Vice President, General Counsel Context Management approach The application of our corporate Code of Business Conduct We strive to establish long-term We manage business ethics through the Human and labour rights relationships with our stakeholders, application of the Dialog Code of Business Our Code of Business Conduct is directly based on trust and adherence to our Conduct, which addresses a broad range informed by international, industry and Code of Business Conduct. of issues including: customer standards. Given the highly –– Conflicts of interest; specialised nature of our industry, we Maintaining our partners’ trust –– Discrimination; believe our supply chain has relatively low depends on: –– Trading in Dialog shares; levels of slavery and human trafficking risk. –– Our strict adherence to our customers’ –– Protection of intellectual property Our Modern Slavery and Human Trafficking exact technical, commercial and and confidentiality; statement reflects our ongoing commitment ethical requirements; –– Competition, trade restrictions and to remain vigilant through compliance –– The protection of both our own export controls; and monitoring and verification, especially in intellectual property and that of –– Accuracy of records, data privacy selecting new suppliers. our business partners, which is and reporting of infractions. fundamental given the technologically For more information see our website innovative nature of our business; and The Code of Business Conduct is applicable https://www.dialog-semiconductor.com/ –– Our strict compliance with the laws of to all Dialog employees, consultants and sites/default/files/2019-12-31_modern_ contractors, and includes: slavery_statement_signed.pdf our host societies – including those relating to anti-bribery and corruption. –– A range of specific policies addressing Anti-bribery and corruption Any breach of this trust, or of our issues such as bribery and corruption, Compliance with global anti-bribery and legal obligations, has the potential to fraud, money laundering, financial dealings corruption (“ABC”) legislation is vital in our seriously compromise our business and whistleblower protection; and approach to business dealings, and it is – whether in terms of the loss of –– Mandatory training on specific topics compulsory for all employees to complete valuable commercial relationships, such as bribery and corruption, conflicts online ABC training when they first join the the undermining of our reputation or of interest, preventing harassment and Company and at regular intervals thereafter. the application of official sanctions. insider dealing. 48 Annual report and accounts 2019 Strategic report Performance In 2019, 99% of Dialog employees, excluding  orward focus areas F those who joined from the acquisitions of in 2020 FCI and Creative Chips, had completed the online training covering our Code of Business –– ABC training for all Conduct. The following modules were also new employees. completed by most of our employees (93% –– Strict adherence with laws of all to 97% completion): the countries where we operate. –– GDPR; –– Anti-bribery; –– Conflict of interest; –– Insider dealing; –– Privacy and information security; and –– Preventing harassment in the workplace. Additionally, the Sales & Marketing team completed the online anti-trust training. For more information see our website https://www.dialog-semiconductor.com/ investor-relations/corporate-governance/ our‑code-business-conduct Responsibility for this framework sits with our Senior Vice President General Counsel. He is supported in this role on a day‑to-day basis by the Assistant Company Secretary. 49 Strategic report Dialog Semiconductor Plc Our people and culture: Fostering innovation As an engineering-led organisation, our business is strengthened by our ability to be able to attract, retain and develop highquality professionals. SelfGuided Learning We continue to partner with Mindtools to support our employees with access to “in the moment” learning opportunities to suit their schedule. Dialog Award for Female Undergraduates We remain proud to support UKESF in launching the Dialog Award for Female Undergraduates. Technical The Award is designed to proactively address the lack of women in engineering through encouragement from a young age and we look Ladder forward to continuing this for the long term. The Technical Ladder is a career path for Dialog’s most innovative and experienced Engineers. It provides a creative and inspiring environment for our Members of Technical Staff to lead innovation, champion technical expertise, disseminate best practice/knowledge and represent Dialog to customers and industry partners. 50 Annual report and accounts 2019 Strategic report WES Partnership We partnered with the Women in Engineering Society (“WES”) to work Early towards increasing the number of women engineers in the Company. Careers Our Graduate & Early Careers Programme continues, providing opportunities for working students, internships and graduates to join our team. Leadership Development We invest significantly in the development of our leadership group. In 2019 we launched the global “Emerging leaders programme”. This two-year development plan for our global leaders, develops our management Mentor community and prepares them for leadership roles. Network We are proud of our Mentor Network, Women in which provides invaluable coaching and support to our employees. Engineering Leadership Conference In October 2019, a group of female leaders and HR representatives attended the 2019 Women in Engineering Leadership Conference. At this conference, it was announced that our SVP, Human Resources, Julie Pope, was named as one of the top 100 Most Influential Women in the Engineering Sector. 51 Strategic report Dialog Semiconductor Plc Key performance indicators “KPIs” We are a business built on innovation and deep mixed-signal semiconductor expertise, and our four strategic objectives support the ambition to build a diverse and vibrant mixed signal business. Our key performance indicators seek to ensure performance is aligned to strategy Engineering talent ratio Employee turnover and stakeholders’ interests. Additionally, the Company works with a wide range 77% 10.0% of metrics covering different aspects of our business activities. Through our KPIs we monitor our sales and financial performance, as well as our pool of talent which is vital to fostering innovation. These KPIs allow us to track our performance against the four strategic 77% 75% 76% 10.7% 10.3% objectives of our growth strategy, and our long-term financial targets. We remain 10.0% focused on delivering a more diversified, cash-generative growth which will, in turn, support the expansion of our business. Following the closing of the licensing agreement with our largest customer in 2019, we have introduced a new revenue KPI which excludes the revenue from licensed main PMIC products and the perpetual IP licence. This new KPI is in line with the metric we used to communicate our long-term revenue target. 2017 2018 2019 2017 2018 2019 Definition and relevance Proportion of employees in engineering Number of voluntary leavers in the functions as a percentage of the total last 12 months divided by the average employee base. Monitoring the size of headcount during that period expressed our engineering pool and our ability to as a percentage. Monitoring our ability to generate innovation. recruit and retain experienced engineering and commercial professionals is vital given the strong competition for skills in the sector, ageing population, and our business growth ambitions. 2019 performance In 2019, the engineering talent ratio was In 2019, employee turnover was broadly slightly above 2018 at 77%. In 2019, over stable at 10.0%. Our ability to recruit and 300 employees were transferred to Apple. retain engineering professionals remained Additionally, we welcomed new engineers high. In 2019 over 300 employees from the acquisitions of FCI and Creative transferred to our largest customer as part Chips GmbH. of the licensing agreement. In addition, we welcomed new employees from the acquisitions of FCI and Creative Chips. Dialog has a performance management system to ensure we reward our best employees through appropriate mechanisms. 52 Annual report and accounts 2019 Strategic report Number of sales Customer concentration Free cash flow opportunities 1,049 72% US$449m 1,038 1,049 77% US$449m 1,011 75% 72% US$230m US$205m 2017 2018 2019 2017 2018 2019 2017 2018 2019 Number of sales opportunities recorded Proportion of Group product revenue from Free cash flow is a non-IFRS measure in the pipeline in a given year, with a value the single largest customer. Monitoring the that represents cash flow from operating higher than US$250k excluding cancelled, risk associated with reliance on a single activities, less capital expenditure. It provides rejected, lost, and opportunities which source of income. a measure of the cash available for reached their end of life. expansion, to make strategic investments in, or acquire, other businesses, to repay borrowings and to fund distributions to shareholders. In 2019, the number of sales opportunities In 2019, customer concentration was 72%, Free cash flow in 2019 was 95% above with a value higher than US$250k was 4% three percentage points lower than in 2018. 2018. This was the result of the higher cash above 2018. The number of opportunities This excludes US$145.7 million from the inflow from operating activities alongside the with a value lower than US$250k increased perpetual IP licence. Company’s ability to convert profit into cash. at a similar pace. This is a reflection of the Excluding revenue from standard products, See explanations and reconciliations to increasing number of revenue opportunities customer concentration was 66%, also four the nearest IFRS measure in the section in our various business segments. percentage points below 2018 (2018: 70%). entitled “Financial performance measures” on pages 183 to 189. 53 Strategic report Dialog Semiconductor Plc Key performance indicators “KPIs” continued Revenue growth Gross margin +9% (2)% 54.2% 49.8% IFRS Underlying IFRS Underlying 13% 13% 54.2% 49.8% 47.7% 47.9% 47.9% 48.3% 9% 7% 7% (2)% 2017 2018 2019 2017 2018 2019 2017 2018 2019 2017 2018 2019 Definition and relevance Actual and prior year’s full-year revenue Actual and prior year’s gross margin. measured in our reporting currency, Gross margin is gross profit expressed as a US dollars. Monitoring this revenue trend percentage of revenue and shows the value provides a measure of business growth. of the Group’s products. Monitoring this trend provides a measure of our ability to obtain profit margin from our products and manage our manufacturing costs over a period of time. 2019 performance Revenue in 2019 was US$1,566 million, Gross margin in 2019 (both IFRS and which included the perpetual IP licence underlying) was above 2018. This increase fee of US$146 million in relation to the was due to the positive impact from the licensing arrangement with our largest revenue recognition of the effective IP licence customer which closed in April 2019. granted to our largest customer together Total Group underlying revenue was 2% with savings in manufacturing costs. below year-on-year. This was due to the anticipated decline in revenue from licensed main PMICs (FY 2019: US$626 million; FY 2018: US$867 million) offsetting the strong performance in the rest of the business. 54 Annual report and accounts 2019 Strategic report Operating expenses as Operating margin Diluted EPS (US$) a percentage of revenue 32.4% 28.6% 24.3% 22.8% 3.96 3.47 IFRS Underlying IFRS Underlying IFRS Underlying 34.3% 24.3% 3.96 33.1% 32.4% 22.8% 3.47 28.8% 28.9% 28.6% 19.2% 19.5% 2.92 2.90 13.8% 13.8% 2.21 1.80 2017 2018 2019 2017 2018 2019 2017 2018 2019 2017 2018 2019 2017 2018 2019 2017 2018 2019 Actual and prior year’s operating expenses Actual and prior year’s operating margin. Actual and prior year’s diluted EPS. (“OpEx”) expressed as a percentage of Monitoring this trend provides a measure Monitoring this trend provides a useful revenue. OpEx % provides a measure of our of our ability to increase the profitability of measure of our ability to generate earnings effort in innovation and the efficiency of our our operating activity over a period of time. and the inherent value of our business operating structure over a period of time and Underlying operating margin provides a for our shareholders over a period of it reflects the need for current returns as well useful link to our ability to generate cash as time. Underlying diluted EPS provides a as an investment in future revenue growth. we are a low capital intensity business. useful reflection of the inherent value of OpEx % and underlying OpEx % provide a the business. useful reflection of the focus and efficiency of our operating structure. OpEx includes Selling & Marketing expenses, General & Administrative expenses and Research & Development expenses. OpEx % in 2019 was 190bps below Operating margin in 2019 was significantly Diluted EPS was significantly above 2018 2018 mainly due to the higher revenue and above 2018 mainly due to the higher at US$3.96 due to the increased net lower R&D expenses resulting from the revenue. On an underlying basis, income together with the lower share transfer of over 300 employees to our largest operating margin was 330bps above count. Underlying diluted EPS was 20% customer, partially offset by the costs from 2018. This increase was the result of the above 2018, mainly driven by the increase the acquisitions of FCI and Creative Chips. improvement in underlying gross margin in underlying net income together with the On an underlying basis, OPEX % was 30bps together with lower operating expenses. lower share count. below 2018. Underlying R&D % was 90bps below 2018 while SG&A % was 60bps above 2018. It is important to note that our R&D effort is not directly linked to the revenue of the same period. It represents an investment in future revenue streams. 55 Strategic report Dialog Semiconductor Plc Segmental Review Custom Mixed Signal Vivek Bhan Senior Vice President and General Manager, Custom Mixed Signal “As consumer demands Leveraging our mixed2019 progress –– We closed the licensing agreement with continue to strive for better signal expertise to create Apple Inc. in April 2019. user experience, Dialog’s the next wave of innovation –– Secured a high-volume phone charger opportunity at a major Tier expertise and IP contribute and differentiation 1 customer, displacing the long-time to solving the complex Our ability to integrate combinations of incumbent supplier. challenge of extending complex mixed-signal IP in customer-specific –– Entered into new markets with production products and reliably produce them in very of custom application specific (“ASICs”) battery life while adding high volumes has helped fuel the mobile PMICs for solid state drives, gaming new features, all in a small computing revolution since its early days. consoles and DSLR cameras. As we are investing to leverage this expertise –– Began the ramp of our automotive PMICs form factor.” in other segments, Dialog is well positioned solutions for Renesas R-Car H3, M3 and to create the next wave of innovation in smart V3M computing platforms. power management, charging, gaming and other mixed signal areas. Key drivers Underlying revenue –– Battery charge time reduction. (US$m) Highlights –– Increasing efficiency requirements to US$965m –– In April 2019, we closed an agreement address tightening thermal budgets. with Apple Inc. to licence certain of our –– Industry increase in “always-on” PMIC technologies, and transfer certain applications requiring ultra-low power assets and over 300 employees. solutions to extend battery life. Underlying operating profit –– Leveraged our power management –– Broader adoption and reliance upon (US$m) technology into new markets such platform reference designs for lower US$281.9m as gaming, solid state drives (“SSD”) and automotive. –– Secured a high-volume phone charger customer development cost and faster time-to-market. –– Expansion of high-performance See explanations and reconciliations to opportunity at a Tier 1 customer. processors into automotive infotainment the nearest IFRS measure in the section systems driving adoption of integrated entitled “Financial performance measures” Our markets power solutions. on pages 183 to 189 –– System power and battery management ICs for large-screen smartphones and tablets. –– Power management ICs for wearables, watches, etc. –– High-efficiency battery chargers for smartphones and tablets. –– High-voltage power management for Chromebooks™, Ultrabooks™, and convertible tablets. –– Automotive-grade PMICs for in-vehicle infotainment, electronic instrument cluster, telematic systems and driverassisted displays. –– Motor Driver ICs for applications such as cameras. –– Power management ICs for gaming, memory and SSDs. 56 Annual report and accounts 2019 Strategic report Case study: PMICs Our comprehensive range of PMICs and Subsystem PMICs meet the demanding power management requirements and energy efficiency levels required in a growing number of applications, such as SSDs, IoT devices and automotive infotainment systems. Our products More applications require effective power Forward focus areas Dialog replaces discrete power management management solutions. components with highly-integrated, singlefor 2020 Always-on sensing combined with increased chip solutions that reduce energy usage, Extend product portfolio context awareness in a wide range of smart provide design simplicity at a lower cost –– Expand our custom and semi-custom devices has the effect of exponentially and improve the overall power density of engagements through Dialog’s increasing the number of use cases that mobile products. operational excellence and innovative, customers wish to support. Our PMICs are highly configurable. and differentiated products. Strategies to manage leakage and quiescent –– Extend our automotive This allows them to be factory-tailored to current are now evolving in parallel with new PMIC portfolio. meet the exact voltage and current needs topologies to deliver higher power density –– Expanding our engagement in of every component on a circuit board. to support the next level of “full power” gaming and SSDs PMIC and other This flexibility is attractive to both platform benchmark performance. mixed signal applications. vendors and customers. Platform vendors Accommodating such diverse requirements Deliver continuous innovation can validate one PMIC and use it in multiple while maintaining battery life is one reason –– Accelerate System-on-Chip platform variants, and end-customers why customers continue to turn to Dialog partner collaboration. who wish to differentiate from other to support their next power challenge. –– Leverage Dialog internal synergies platform customers can modify some With such powerful market dynamics at play to provide signal chain solutions to peripheral functions. in high-volume segments, the stage is set for our customers. Our leadership position in PMICs allows us the next wave of innovation in smart power to quickly address developing market trends management – Dialog is well positioned Strategic initiatives and M&A and we continue to see significant focus on to deliver. –– Deepen our collaboration with battery charging. strategic partners. The increasing electrification of the automobile is driving additional business potential for our power management solutions. High resolution screens within the cabin for advanced infotainment systems and clusters, combined with always-on driver assistance features require highperformance processing solutions. Dialog’s experience in power management of multi-core processors and our AECQ100 Automotive qualified products enable us to be perfectly positioned to respond to our customers’ needs. 57 Strategic report Dialog Semiconductor Plc Segmental Review continued Advanced Mixed Signal Davin Lee Senior Vice President and General Manager, Advanced Mixed Signal “In 2019, our backlighting Innovative and differentiated 2019 progress –– Launched the first automotive business almost doubled mixed signal technologies grade CMIC. year-on-year. We also addressing customer –– Began the introduction of Dialog IP into the CMIC platform with a low noise maintained our dominant requirements in our target LDO regulator. position in the rapid charge end-markets –– Our backlighting business almost doubled market, leading the way Configurable Mixed-signal ICs (“CMICs”) year-on-year. –– Led the way in USB PD adoption, with with our USB PD chipset pioneer a new category of ICs which enable chargers using our USB PD chipsets our customers to customise and integrate solutions shipping ‘in the multiple analog, logic and discrete functions shipping “in the box” with major branded smartphones. box’ with major branded into a single chip. This can be prototyped –– Delivered a high power density 65W in hours, accelerating time-to-market and smartphones.” reducing board space. adapter solution that lets OEMs pack more power into compact adapter cases. PrimAccurate™ digital control technology is at the heart of our AC/DC converters, Key drivers Underlying revenue backlight driver ICs and solid state lighting –– Growing consumer demand for direct (US$m) (“SSL”) LED driver ICs. It enables energybacklight 4K and 8K High Dynamic Range efficient products and helps our customers (“HDR”) TVs at low cost. US$253m meet stringent government standards and energy regulations for low power and high efficiency. –– Increasing adoption of direct backlighting for HDR in automotive display panels. –– Consumer demand for faster mobile Underlying operating profit device charging and smaller, higher power (US$m) Highlights density adapters. –– Our backlighting business almost doubled –– Consumer applications have very short US$15.2m year-on-year. –– We were at the vanguard of USB PD design cycles and demand low-power, low-cost small form factor ICs. Underlying operating profit reconciliation adoption, with chargers using our USB PD –– Stringent government regulations on pages 183 to 189 chipsets shipping “in the box” with major for efficiency and standby power in branded smartphones in 2019. electronic products. Our markets Our products –– CMICs for IoT, mobile computing Configurable Mixed-signal IC and automotive. CMICs integrate analog mixed-signal –– LED LCD drivers for direct backlighting in functionality on an easily configurable TV, automotive and LED monitor displays. software platform, using non-volatile memory –– AC/DC controller solutions for to configure multiple analog, digital and smartphones, tablets, appliances, power functions. This allows customers to industrial products – digital intelligence and easily replace standard analog, logic and state machine solutions for high power discrete board components, enabling a density rapid charge and non-rapid charge fast go-to-market, and reduce board space applications, and power supplies. and costs. –– SSL LED drivers for residential and In 2019, Dialog launched the first-to-market commercial lighting applications. automotive grade CMIC with customisable technology that enhances design flexibility and scalability for driving the automotive future. Additionally, leveraging on Dialog’s 58 Annual report and accounts 2019 Strategic report Case study: BroadLED™ Dialog’s core BroadLED™ IP is used in virtually all leading 4K and 8K TVs to enable direct backlighting for the vibrant visual experience of HDR. power management IP, we introduced an AC/DC Power Conversion and Control Forward focus areas industry-leading LDO regulator targeting Dialog’s AC/DC travel adapter IC solutions high-end smartphone cameras. continue to support virtually all fast charge for 2020 protocols, including USB Power Delivery, Extend product portfolio LED Backlight Drivers Qualcomm® Quick Charge™ 4+; Samsung –– Increase the value of our configurable When it comes to buying a new TV or Adaptive Fast Charging (“AFC”); Huawei platform incorporating additional monitor, many consumers want the absolute SuperCharge™ technology and Fast analog and power management IP. best picture quality for the price. That’s Charger Protocol (“FCP”), as well as other –– Extend our leadership in LED why manufacturers are now transitioning proprietary OEM protocols. backlighting, delivering direct from edge-lit to multi-zone, direct backlight HDR displays. In 2019, we were on the vanguard of USB PD backlight ICs for next-generation adoption, with chargers using our USB PD Mini LED, Micro LED, and automotive HDR TVs use direct backlight, local dimming HDR displays. 3.0 chipsets shipping “in the box” with major to achieve a vibrant visual experience. –– Continue to deliver next-generation branded smartphones. Local dimming technology dims the area RapidCharge™ adapter solutions, of the screen that needs it, while keeping Our AC/DC high power density including USB PD high power the bright parts of the display bright. It also RapidCharge™ chipsets and AC/ density chipsets to meet fast increases the contrast ratio to render deeper DC converter ICs deliver efficiency as charging standards. blacks, intense bright highlights and life high as 90% and support output power –– Expand our SSL LED driver solutions like colours that allow exciting and truly up to 65W, using fewer and smaller for commercial and professional immersive viewing. components. Our 65W high power density LED lighting. RapidCharge™ solution reduces heat Local dimming requires direct backlighting Achieve a broader and deeper dissipation and enables low system cost, with many active LED zones and thousands customer base allowing OEMs to pack more power into of LEDs. This plays to Dialog’s core –– Increase cross-selling of CMICs compact charger and adapter cases with BroadLED™ LED driver IP, which is used across our customer base, very low standby power. in virtually all leading 4K and 8K HDR TVs particularly in Asia. to enable local dimming. Our BroadLED™ LED Solid State Lighting –– Extend our core BroadLED™ technology allows our customers to lower With its energy savings, improved backlighting technology for their direct backlighting solution cost, performance and lower costs, LED SSL is performance innovations in the reduce power consumption and enhance the preferred technology for new residential automotive, TV and monitor HDR thermal performance for longer lifetime with and commercial installations. backlighting markets. higher reliability. –– Extend our RapidCharge™ AC/DC Dialog addresses the SSL market with In 2019, our backlighting business almost a broad range of high-performance, low USB PD power supply solutions to doubled year-on-year. We anticipate future BOM cost LED driver ICs. We support both a broader customer base. backlighting growth will be fuelled by dimmable and non-dimmable solutions, with –– Leverage our AC/DC converter IP and increased consumer demand for HDR TVs, ongoing investment in both commercial and ASSP technologies to address the along with the adoption of direct backlight, residential SSL applications. appliances and smart meter markets. local dimming in automotive displays, where we are well positioned at major panel vendors and suppliers. In the near future, Mini LED backlight TVs hold the promise of stunning visual quality equivalent to OLED displays at lower cost. This will likely expand the demand for multi-channel direct backlight LED drivers, with Mini LED TVs benefiting from the cost savings and performance benefits of Dialog’s BroadLED™ technology. 59 Strategic report Dialog Semiconductor Plc Segmental Review continued Connectivity & Audio Sean McGrath Senior Vice President and General Manager, Connectivity & Audio “2019 has been a strong Everything is connected 2019 progress –– Strong revenue growth in Bluetooth® year for the Group, with As the Internet of Things continues low energy. double digit revenue to develop and evolve, more and –– Launched Smartbond™ DA1469x more applications are getting supporting the latest Bluetooth® 5.1 and growth in the strategic connected. Our low power connectivity enabling novel high-end applications. areas of digital audio and technologies and audio ICs help our –– Launched the DA14531, Smartbond customers to succeed in these highly Bluetooth® low energy. competitive markets. TINY™, supporting the latest Bluetooth® 5.1 standard and enabling connectivity in The successful acquisition disposable applications. of Silicon Motion’s Highlights –– Launched the DA7402 family of smart –– Delivered strong revenue growth in CODECs for combining ultra-low power low power Wi-Fi business Bluetooth®* low energy (“BLE”). active noise cancellation with highsignificantly increases –– Acquired FCI’s industry-leading low power performance audio CODEC. Dialog’s presence in the Wi-Fi SoC portfolio. –– Strengthened market position in the –– Launched first generation VirtualZero™ wearable segment with key design wins IoT Connectivity space, low power Wi-Fi SoC. at multiple customers. allowing for increased –– Launched the DA1469x, the world’s most –– Completed the acquisition of FCI, advanced wireless BLE microcontroller giving Dialog its first foray into growth potential.” supporting Bluetooth® 5.1. low power Wi-Fi. –– Launched the DA14531, the world’s smallest and lowest power wireless BLE Key drivers microcontroller supporting Bluetooth® 5.1. –– Rapid market expansion of BLE fuelled Underlying revenue by the connectivity needs of the Internet (US$m) Our markets of Things. –– Single chip transceivers for DECT–– Growth of battery powered IoT and other US$184m based cordless telephones, wireless microphones, headsets and devices that benefit from direct Wi-Fi and cloud connectivity. gaming accessories. –– New market trend for digital headsets for Underlying operating profit –– SmartBond™ single chip wireless smartphone aftermarket using Bluetooth®, (US$m) ICs, certified to the Bluetooth® low with rapid market expansion for the new US$21.6m energy standard, for enabling IoT node generations of True Wireless Stereo connectivity to the cloud. (“TWS”) earbuds. –– VirtualZero™ highly integrated single –– Focusing on the fast-growing Unified Underlying operating profit reconciliation chip low power Wi-Fi SoCs for enabling Communication products segment on pages 183 to 189 battery-powered node connectivity to with 1.9GHz DECT audio and USBWi‑Fi networks and cloud services. audio headsets. –– SmartBeat™ provides a platform for –– Maturity of DECT handset market. robust, low-power wireless audio over USB, DECT, and as a Bluetooth® co-processor. This platform offers a highly-integrated solution for highquality and fixed low-latency wireless audio applications, supporting sample frequencies up to 192kHz. * The Bluetooth® word mark and logos are registered trademarks owned by Bluetooth SIG, Inc. and any use of such marks by Dialog Semiconductor B.V. is under licence. Other trademarks and trade names are those of their respective owners. 60 Annual report and accounts 2019 Strategic report Case study: Converging towards shipments of 100 million units of SmartBond™ per year In 2019, cumulative shipments of SmartBond™, our Bluetooth® low energy product exceeded 300 million units, bringing us closer to delivering 100 million units of devices per year. Wearable devices, Human Interface devices, Smart Home applications, proximity tags and portable medical devices are some of the applications driving the growth in the market. The introduction of our new Bluetooth® products, the DA1469x and the DA14531, enable the expansion of our addressable market and fuel further growth in the medium term. Our products SmartBeat™ products support the trend Forward focus areas Bluetooth® low energy is the gateway to to replace the analog 3.5mm audio jack personal connectivity and easy access headset connection with digital alternatives. for 2020 to the cloud. The SmartBeat™ chipset, DA14195 Achieve a broader and deeper audio processor and DA7217 ultra-low customer base Dialog’s SmartBond™ family is the simplest power codec, is aimed at Bluetooth® and –– Continue to invest in the BLE platform route to delivering power-friendly and flexible USB type-C™ digital audio connections and increase market footprint. Bluetooth® low energy connected products with smartphones. –– Increase investment in the low power to the market. SmartBond™ devices are still market-leading in low power, high integration In 2019, Dialog launched a family of audio Wi-Fi portfolio, delivering follow-up BLE and cover a broad range of applications. CODECs delivering groundbreaking SoCs and building design wins to active noise cancellation. The DA740x increase market penetration. In 2019, we introduced two new products to –– Leverage the combination of BLE delivers superior active noise cancellation our Smartbond™ portfolio. The DA1469x, and Wi-Fi through our distribution no matter how noisy the environment is the world’s most advanced wireless and Sales representative network with twice the audio quality and half the microcontroller and introduces a new level of to expand our customer base. power consumption. integration and performance enabling higherend applications as well as novel applications Low power Wi-Fi is the way that battery Deliver continuous innovation such as positioning and audio. The second powered and other IoT devices can connect –– BLE focus on wearables, smart home product, the DA14531 which is also known directly to Wi-Fi and cloud services without and connected health. as Smartbond TINY™, is the world’s lowest clumsy and expensive additional bridging –– Expand our low latency wireless power, smallest size and lowest cost device equipment. Previously, Wi-Fi was considered audio towards microphone and enabling even disposable applications too power hungry to successfully run on headset brands. to become smart and connected. simple batteries such as AAA, AA and –– Expand our audio expertise By addressing both ends of the application small rechargeable packs, but Dialog’s new for voice user interfaces spectrum, we have expanded our application VirtualZero™ line of low power Wi-Fi SoC’s and audio enhancements in space coverage, enabling new opportunities breaks through that barrier, enabling a large consumer headsets. for our BLE products. array of battery-powered devices that benefit from Wi-Fi and cloud connectivity. These products are all backed up by our powerful SmartSnippets™ software tooling Soon after the closing of the acquisition of and extensive applications support, making FCI, Dialog launched its first generation of it easy for designers to get the most out VirtualZero™ low power Wi-Fi SoCs with the of their system. Our innovation roadmap FC9000. The FC9000 is targeted at smart ensures designers will have the Bluetooth® door locks, wireless sensors, thermostats, solutions they need, when they need them. heating, ventilation and air conditioning equipment, Wi-Fi video cameras, doorbells, SmartBond™ has a strong base for wearables, location tags, and many more further growth, building on a solid partner applications in both commercial and ecosystem, an increasing portfolio of consumer markets. reference designs, and a growing online engineering community. 61 Strategic report Dialog Semiconductor Plc Financial review Strong balance sheet In 2019, we made excellent progress towards our long-term objectives. We delivered solid financial performance, increased underlying operating margin and cash flow generation. We look forward to the future with confidence. Wissam Jabre Chief Financial Officer, Senior Vice President Finance Summary Year ended 31 December IFRS basis Underlying basis1 US$ millions unless stated otherwise 2019 2018 2019 2018 Change Our business and financial performance in 2019 was strong. Revenue2 1,566.2 1,442.1 1,420.5 1,442.1 (2)% We delivered record underlying gross Gross profit 848.5 691.1 706.7 696.0 2% margin, and increased underlying Gross margin %2 54.2% 47.9% 49.8% 48.3% 150bps operating margin, while investing R&D % of revenue 20.0% 22.6% 19.5% 20.4% (90)bps US$314 million in the development SG&A % of revenue 12.4% 11.7% 9.1% 8.5% 60bps of new products. Free cash flow generation was a record EBITDA1 n/a n/a 390.1 339.6 15% US$449 million, and we returned EBITDA margin %1 n/a n/a 27.5% 23.5% 400bps US$252 million to shareholders Operating profit 379.9 199.7 324.3 281.6 15% through the share buyback. Operating margin %2 24.3% 13.8% 22.8% 19.5% 330bps In addition, we invested in the Profit before tax 385.0 196.2 329.8 289.7 14% inorganic expansion of our business Net income 301.5 139.8 264.4 225.4 17% with the acquisitions of FCI and Basic EPS (US$) 4.19 1.89 3.68 3.05 21% Creative Chips, strengthening our presence in IoT and Diluted EPS (US$)2 3.96 1.80 3.47 2.90 20% Industrial markets. Cash flow from operating activities 496.5 288.6 n/a n/a n/a Free cash flow1, 2 n/a n/a 449.4 229.9 95% 1 Non-IFRS measures (see explanations and reconciliations to the nearest equivalent IFRS measures in the section entitled “Financial performance measures” on pages 183 to 189). 2 Key performance indicators. Winner of the GSA 2019 award for best financially managed public semiconductor company 62 Annual report and accounts 2019 Strategic report Basis of preparation During 2019, the effect of IFRS 16 Recent corporate was to increase operating profit by Accounting policies US$1.9 million but to reduce net income transactions The consolidated financial statements of by US$0.8 million. Completion of agreements with Apple Dialog Semiconductor Plc (“the Company”) Licensing and asset transfer agreement and its subsidiaries (together, “Dialog” Details of the adoption of IFRS 16 and its financial effect are set out in note 37 On 11 October 2018, we announced that or “the Group”) for the year ended we had entered into an agreement with 31 December 2019 are set out on to the consolidated financial statements. Apple Inc. (“Apple”) to license our power pages 114 to 175. management technologies and to transfer The consolidated financial statements Critical accounting to Apple certain assets and over 300 have been prepared in accordance with judgements and employees from our design centres in the International Financial Reporting Standards UK, Germany and Italy. (“IFRS”) as adopted for use in the European estimates Following receipt of the necessary Union and those parts of the Companies Details of the critical accounting regulatory approvals and satisfaction of the Act 2006 that are applicable to companies judgements made in preparing the other closing conditions, the transaction reporting under IFRS. The consolidated consolidated financial statements and the closed on 8 April 2019. Apple paid Dialog financial statements also comply with IFRS key sources of estimation uncertainty that US$300.0 million in respect of the licensing as issued by the International Accounting may affect the carrying amount of the arrangements and asset transfers. Standards Board. Group’s assets and liabilities within the next financial year are set out in note 2 Pursuant to the agreement, we granted The Group’s significant accounting policies to Apple: to the consolidated financial statements. are unchanged compared with the year ended 31 December 2018, except to reflect –– a perpetual licence over our Power the adoption of IFRS 16 Leases with effect Non-IFRS measures Management IP as it existed at the closing from 1 January 2019. date; and We assess the performance of the –– an effective licence over certain of our Recent accounting pronouncements that are Group’s businesses using a number IP as it existed at the closing date and relevant to the Group are outlined in note 1 to of measures. Certain of them are is developed for a period of at least four the consolidated financial statements. non-IFRS measures because they years thereafter. exclude amounts that are included in, Adoption of IFRS 16 or include amounts that are excluded On closing of the licensing and asset IFRS 16 Leases provides a single lessee from, the most directly comparable transfer agreement, Apple made an accounting model, requiring lessees to measure calculated and presented in interest-free prepayment to Dialog of recognise a right-of-use asset and a lease accordance with IFRS, or are calculated US$300.0 million. On initial recognition, we liability for all leases, except those with using financial measures that are not measured the prepayment at its fair value a short lease term and/or involving an calculated in accordance with IFRS. of US$288.6 million. We considered that underlying asset of low value. In summary, Underlying measures of profitability when the resulting “below market element” of the for lessees, there is no longer a distinction referred to on a consolidated basis and prepayment of US$11.4 million represented between an operating lease and a finance free cash flow are non-IFRS measures. additional consideration in respect of the lease and most leases are now recognised licensing arrangements and asset transfers. An explanation of the adjustments made on the balance sheet similarly to the way in to the equivalent IFRS measures in which finance leases were accounted for calculating the non-IFRS measures and under the predecessor accounting standard, reconciliations of the non-IFRS measures IAS 17 Leases. to the equivalent IFRS measures for We adopted IFRS 16 using a modified the periods presented are set out in the retrospective approach whereby prior section entitled “Financial performance periods were not restated but cumulative measures” on pages 183 to 189. effect adjustments were made to the We report non-IFRS measures because opening consolidated balance sheet they provide useful additional information on the transition date, 1 January 2019. about the performance of the Group’s We recognised lease liabilities totalling businesses. We do not regard non-IFRS US$67.6 million on adoption of IFRS 16 and measures as a substitute for, or superior corresponding right-of-use assets totalling to, the equivalent IFRS measures. NonUS$66.4 million (after deducting existing IFRS measures presented by Dialog net accrued lease rentals of US$1.2 million). may not be directly comparable with similarly-titled measures presented by other companies. 63 Strategic report Dialog Semiconductor Plc Financial review continued Strong balance sheet continued We allocated the total consideration of If there are insufficient invoices outstanding During 2019, we incurred related transaction US$311.4 million in respect of the licensing on a recoupment date, Apple may require us costs of US$1.8 million (within general and arrangements and asset transfers as follows: to settle the shortfall against the scheduled administrative expenses). recoupment in cash. –– US$145.8 million to the perpetual Creative Chips represents our new IP licence; We account for the prepayment as a financial Industrial Mixed Signal business unit, an –– US$136.4 million to the effective IP licence; liability measured at amortised cost. At the operating segment that is included in our and end of 2019, the carrying amount of the Custom Mixed Signal reporting segment. –– US$29.2 million to the design centre liability was US$194.5 million. Subsequent to its acquisition, Creative Chips businesses transferred. contributed US$2.3 million to the Group’s Acquisition of Creative Chips revenue for 2019. We consider that the perpetual licence On 31 October 2019, we completed the granted Apple a “right to use” the related acquisition of Creative Chips, a supplier of Acquisition of FCI IP and therefore recognised the related integrated circuits (“ICs”) to the Industrial On 31 May 2019, we completed the consideration as revenue on the closing date. Internet of Things (“IIoT”) market based acquisition of Silicon Motion Technology We consider that the effective licence in Germany. Corporation’s Mobile Communications granted Apple a “right to access” the product group, branded as FCI, based in We acquired Creative Chips for related IP and are therefore recognising the South Korea. US$80.0 million on a cashand debt-free related consideration as revenue over the basis. Additional consideration of up to We acquired FCI for US$45.0 million on four-year period following the closing date. US$23.0 million in cash may be payable a cashand debt-free basis. We paid We recognised revenue of US$18.5 million contingent on Creative Chips’ revenues for consideration of US$54.2 million in cash, in relation to the effective licence in 2019. 2020 and 2021. including US$9.2 million in respect of FCI’s We recognised a gain of US$15.9 million on cash, debt and estimated working capital On completion, we paid consideration of the transfer of the design centre businesses on completion. We estimate that a purchase US$83.7 million in cash, including (within other operating income). price adjustment of US$0.2 million will be US$3.7 million in respect of Creative Chips’ payable by the seller, reflecting FCI’s actual We incurred transaction costs totalling estimated cash, debt and working capital working capital on completion. US$23.9 million in relation to the agreement levels on completion. In February 2020, with Apple, of which US$16.1 million was we paid a purchase price adjustment of FCI’s net assets on acquisition totalled incurred during 2019 (within general and US$0.1 million to the sellers reflecting the US$44.0 million, including identifiable administrative expenses). actual amounts on completion. intangible assets in respect of customer relationships (US$13.4 million), developed Further details of the transaction are We estimated that the acquisition date technology (US$18.6 million) and trade set out in note 3 to the consolidated fair value of the contingent consideration name (US$1.1 million). financial statements. was US$6.5 million (net of discounting of US$2.1 million). We therefore recognised goodwill of Prepayment agreement US$9.9 million in relation to FCI. Details of It is intended that the US$300.0 million Creative Chips’ net assets on acquisition the purchase price allocation are set out prepayment will be recouped by Apple totalled US$58.2 million, including identifiable in note 4 to the consolidated financial against amounts payable to Dialog for the intangible assets in respect of customer statements. purchase of certain of our products over the relationships (US$42.6 million), developed three-year period ending on 31 March 2022. technology (US$7.2 million) and trade name During 2019, we incurred related transaction (US$1.3 million). costs of US$2.2 million (within general and Settlement of the prepayment is scheduled administrative expenses). to take place in quarterly instalments in We therefore recognised goodwill of arrears such that US$200.0 million is US$32.1 million in relation to Creative Chips. FCI is included in our Connectivity & settled in the first year and US$50.0 million Details of the purchase price allocation Audio reporting segment where we will is settled in each of the second and third are set out in note 4 to the consolidated use its technology to enhance our IoT years. During each quarter, Apple will settle financial statements. offerings. Subsequent to its acquisition, our invoices on their normal payment terms. FCI contributed US$10.5 million to the Group’s revenue for 2019. Results by reporting segment Year ended 31 December Underlying revenue Underlying operating profit/(loss) Restated* Restated* US$ millions 2019 2018 Change 2019 2018 2019 compared with 2018 Custom Mixed Signal 964.8 1,042.3 (7)% 281.9 267.6 Advanced Mixed Signal 253.4 244.5 4% 15.2 26.8 Connectivity & Audio 183.8 154.0 19% 21.6 13.6 Total segments 1,402.0 1,440.8 (3)% 318.7 308.0 Corporate and other unallocated items 18.5 1.3 nm 5.6 (26.4) Total Group 1,420.5 1,442.1 (2)% 324.3 281.6 * Restated to reflect the segment reorganisation and measurement changes. 64 Annual report and accounts 2019 Strategic report Acquisition of Silego Results of operations Advanced Mixed Signal’s underlying We completed the acquisition of Silego revenue was US$253.4 million in 2019 Technology Inc. (“Silego”) in November 2017 Segment reorganisation and compared with US$244.5 million in 2018, for initial consideration of US$291.2 million. measurement changes an increase of 4%. Revenue increased With effect from the beginning of the second principally due to growth in sales of Contingent consideration of up to quarter of 2019, the Group made a number backlighting ICs and CMICs, though this US$30.4 million was payable for Silego of organisational changes. Details of the was partially offset by lower sales of AC/DC dependent on its revenues in 2017 and changes are set out in note 35 to the charger ICs for smartphone power adaptors. 2018. Silego’s revenue for 2017 was such consolidated financial statements. that the first instalment of US$10.0 million Advanced Mixed Signal’s underlying was payable in full. Silego’s revenue for Following the changes, the Group has three operating profit was considerably lower 2018 was such that US$17.9 million of the reporting segments: Custom Mixed Signal; at US$15.2 million compared with second instalment of up to US$20.4 million Advanced Mixed Signal; and Connectivity US$26.8 million in 2018. While underlying was payable. In February 2019, we paid & Audio. operating profit benefited from favourable US$16.7 million in settlement of the At the same time as effecting the product mix, this was outweighed by higher element of the second instalment that was organisational changes, the Management R&D expenses. Underlying operating margin attributable to the shares and vested options Team changed its focus from IFRS measures declined to 6.0% compared with 10.9% acquired and attributed the balance to to underlying measures as the principal basis in 2018. deferred cash rights that are payable over for allocating resources to and assessing Connectivity & Audio’s underlying revenue the period to March 2021. the financial performance of the Group’s was US$183.8 million in 2019 compared During 2019, we also paid deferred businesses. Underlying revenue is therefore with US$154.0 million in 2018, an increase consideration of US$2.1 million in relation the measure of segment revenue and of 19%. Connectivity & Audio’s revenue to the purchase of Silego, bringing the total underlying operating profit/loss the measure increased principally due to strong growth in deferred consideration paid to US$5.3 million of segment profit/loss that is now presented demand for Bluetooth® low energy and new with the remaining US$1.0 million expected in the Group’s segment disclosures. audio products. to be payable by March 2021. In the analysis of the Group’s results by Connectivity & Audio’s underlying reporting segment presented below, operating profit was significantly higher Disposal of Dyna Image comparative information for 2018 has been at US$21.6 million compared with In December 2018, we agreed to sell our restated to reflect these organisational and US$13.6 million in 2018. Underlying operating shareholding in Dyna Image Corporation measurement changes. profit increased due to higher sales volumes (“Dyna Image”). We obtained the necessary and favourable product mix but these regulatory approvals but the purchaser Analysis by reporting segment benefits were partially offset by higher R&D was unable to complete the transaction Custom Mixed Signal’s underlying revenue expenses. Underlying operating margin and the sale agreement was terminated was US$964.8 million in 2019 compared was higher at 11.8% compared with 8.9% in September 2019. We immediately with US$1,042.3 million in 2018, a decrease in 2018. entered into a new agreement to sell our of 7%. Revenue declined principally due shareholding to another purchaser for to our reduced share of volume for the Corporate and other unallocated items a nominal amount. main PMIC on our largest customer’s 2018 comprise the costs of operating central smartphone platform and, in the second corporate functions, the Group’s shareSince the carrying amount of the Group’s half of 2019, the initial effect of the licensing based compensation expense and certain investment in Dyna Image had already agreement on our supply of main PMICs for other unallocated items including, from been reduced to nil, no additional loss their next generation products. the second quarter of 2019, the revenue was recognised on completion of the sale recognised in relation to the effective IP in November 2019. Revenue from our largest customer for licence granted to Apple. products not covered by the licensing Corporate and other unallocated items Our approach to tax agreement increased to US$315.1 million represented an underlying operating in 2019 compared with US$148.8 million Our approach to tax is to support our in 2018, principally due to higher demand profit of US$5.6 million compared with a business strategy and the creation of for our custom PMICs for accessories for loss of US$26.4 million in 2018, with the long-term value for our shareholders mobile devices. improvement being principally due to the by conducting the Group’s tax affairs in recognition of effective IP licence revenue a tax efficient manner whilst remaining Custom Mixed Signal’s underlying of US$18.5 million in 2019 and lower in compliance with applicable tax laws operating profit was US$281.9 million unallocated R&D expenses. and regulations. Our “Approach to compared with US$267.6 million in Tax” can be found on our website at 2018. Underlying operating profit www.dialog-semiconductor.com. increased principally due to income of US$12.5 million received from Apple for product development work and the reduction in R&D expenses following the transfer of the design centre businesses in April 2019. Underlying operating margin was 29.2% compared with 25.7% in 2018. 65 Strategic report Dialog Semiconductor Plc Financial review continued Strong balance sheet continued Analysis of the Group’s results Underlying selling and marketing expenses Other operating income was significantly Revenue was US$1,566.2 million in exclude share-based compensation and higher at US$39.4 million in 2019 compared 2019 compared with US$1.442.1 million related expenses totalling US$6.3 million with US$3.2 million in 2018, principally due to in 2018, with the substantial increase (2018: US$4.4 million), amortisation the recognition of the gain of US$15.9 million being due to the recognition of revenue of of acquired intangible assets of on the transfer of design centre businesses US$164.2 million in relation to the licensing US$16.0 million (2018: US$14.0 million), and higher customer contributions to arrangements with Apple. deferred consideration payable for Silego product development costs, including treated as compensation expense of US$12.5 million received from Apple for Excluding the perpetual IP licence fee of US$0.4 million (2018: US$0.5 million) and, work performed between October 2018 US$145.7 million, underlying revenue was in 2019, integration costs of US$0.8 million. and April 2019. US$1,420.5 million in 2019 compared with US$1,442.1 million in 2018, a decrease General and administrative expenses Excluding the gain on the transfer of the of 2%. were US$101.6 million in 2019 compared design centre businesses, underlying other with US$84.4 million in 2018, with the operating income was US$23.5 million in Underlying revenue declined principally due increase being principally due to acquisition2019 compared with US$2.3 million in 2018. to lower main PMIC volumes in Custom related and corporate transaction costs Mixed Signal, the effect of which was partially Operating profit was US$379.9 million incurred in 2019. offset by volume growth in Connectivity in 2019 compared with US$199.7 million & Audio and revenue of US$18.5 million Underlying general and administrative in 2018. recognised on the effective IP licence expenses increased slightly to Underlying operating profit was granted to Apple. US$60.1 million compared with US$324.3 million compared with US$57.4 million in 2018 and represented Cost of sales was US$717.7 million in 2019 US$281.6 million in 2018, an increase of 4.2% of the Group’s underlying revenue compared with US$751.1 million in 2018, 15%. Underlying operating profit increased compared with 4.0% in 2018. with the reduction being principally due to principally due to the various effects of the lower overall sales volumes. Underlying general and administrative licensing and asset transfer agreement expenses exclude share-based but also benefited from improved product Gross profit was US$848.5 million in compensation and related expenses totalling margins. Underlying operating margin was 2019 compared with US$691.1 million in US$19.9 million (2018: US$12.8 million), higher at 22.8% compared with 19.5% 2018, with the substantial increase being acquisition-related and corporate in 2018. due to the recognition of licence fees and transaction costs of US$20.1 million (2018: manufacturing cost savings. Gross margin Interest income was US$21.9 million US$11.3 million), deferred consideration was 54.2% in 2019 compared with 47.9% in 2019 compared with US$9.9 million in payable for Silego treated as compensation in 2018. 2018, with the increase reflecting the higher expense of US$0.2 million (2018: average cash balance during 2019. Underlying gross profit was US$706.7 million US$0.3 million) and integration costs of compared with US$696.0 million in 2018, an US$1.3 million (2018: US$2.5 million). Interest expense was US$11.3 million in increase of 2%. Underlying gross margin was 2019 compared with US$3.1 million in 2018, R&D expenses were US$313.5 million 150 basis points higher at 49.8% compared with the increase reflecting the recognition in 2019 compared with US$326.3 million with 48.3% in 2018. of interest expense of US$5.9 million on the in 2018. prepayment from Apple and US$3.0 million Underlying gross profit excludes R&D costs totalled US$334.6 million (2018: on lease liabilities following the adoption the perpetual IP licence fee of US$356.3 million), of which US$15.4 million of IFRS 16. US$145.7 million, share-based (2018: US$24.8 million) was capitalised and compensation and related expenses Other finance expense was US$5.5 million US$5.7 million (2018: US$5.2 million) was of US$2.2 million (2018: US$1.8 million) in 2019 compared with US$10.3 million offset by R&D expenditure credits. R&D and consumption of the fair value uplift in 2018. costs were lower compared with 2018 on acquired inventory of US$1.7 million principally due to the transfer of design We recognised a net currency translation (2018: US$3.1 million). centre businesses at the beginning of the loss on monetary assets and liabilities Selling and marketing expenses second quarter of 2019. of US$5.7 million compared with a loss increased to US$92.9 million in 2019 of US$1.0 million in 2018. Underlying R&D expenses were compared with US$83.9 million in 2018. US$276.4 million in 2019 compared with We recognised a fair value loss of Underlying selling and marketing expenses US$294.2 million in 2018 and represented US$1.4 million (2018: loss of US$10.9 million) were also higher at US$69.4 million 19.5% of the Group’s underlying revenue on the warrants that we hold over shares compared with US$65.0 million in 2018 and compared with 20.4% in 2018. in Energous and a credit arising from the represented 4.9% of the Group’s underlying amortisation of the gain on initial recognition Underlying R&D expenses exclude revenue compared with 4.5% in 2018. of the second tranche of warrants amounting share-based compensation and related to US$1.6 million (2018: US$1.6 million). expenses totalling US$26.2 million (2018: US$22.7 million), amortisation of acquired Income tax expense was US$83.6 million intangible assets of US$10.1 million (2018: (2018: US$55.3 million) on profit before tax US$8.6 million), deferred consideration of US$385.0 million (2018: US$196.2 million), payable for Silego treated as compensation an effective tax rate for the year of 21.7% expense of US$0.5 million (2018: (2018: 28.2%). US$0.6 million) and integration costs of US$0.3 million (2018: US$0.2 million). 66 Annual report and accounts 2019 Strategic report Our effective tax rate is sensitive to the Summary cash flow statement geographic mix of the Group’s profits, reflecting a combination of different tax US$ millions 2019 2018 rates in different countries, changes in Cash generated from operations 549.7 321.6 tax legislation and tax rates, the impact of Interest received, net 17.3 8.2 acquisitions, disposals and restructurings, Income taxes paid (70.5) (41.1) and to currency exchange rate movements, which give rise to tax effects where an Cash inflow from operating activities 496.5 288.7 entity’s functional currency differs from the Purchase of property, plant and equipment (12.1) (26.1) currency in which it is required to calculate Purchase of intangible assets (8.5) (6.2) and pay income taxes. Capitalised development expenditure (15.4) (24.8) Our relatively high effective tax rate for Capital element of lease payments (11.1) (1.7) 2018 was principally due to the distorting Free cash flow 449.4 229.9 effect on our income tax expense of the tax Purchase of businesses, net of acquired cash (139.8) (12.9) and accounting treatments of share-based compensation, business combinations and Proceeds from transfer of design centres, net of cash disposed 27.8 – certain of our strategic investments. Receipt of prepayment from Apple 288.6 – Cash settlement of prepayment from Apple (20.3) – A large proportion of the Group’s R&D activities are undertaken in the UK and Sale/(purchase) of Dialog shares by EBTs, net 3.4 (18.2) the Netherlands and we are therefore able Purchase of own shares (251.8) – to benefit from the UK and Netherlands Other cash flows, net (11.8) 0.1 tax regimes that provide incentives Net cash inflow during the period 345.5 198.9 for innovation. Currency translation differences 1.2 (0.3) Our underlying income tax expense Increase in cash and cash equivalents 346.7 198.6 was US$65.4 million (2018: US$63.2 million) on underlying profit before tax of US$329.8 million (2018: US$289.7 million). Our underlying effective Cash flows Trade and other receivables increased during 2019, absorbing cash of US$15.5 million, tax rate for 2019 was therefore 19.8%, Cash inflow from operating activities and cash flow from operations was which compares with 21.8% for 2018. was US$496.5 million in 2019 compared with further reduced by US$79.7 million due Net income was US$301.5 million in 2019 US$288.7 million in 2018. to the settlement of the first and second compared with US$139.8 million in 2018. Cash generated from operations quarterly instalments of the prepayment Underlying net income was US$264.4 million before changes in working capital from Apple by recoupment against compared with US$225.4 million in 2018, was US$631.9 million compared with receivables. At the end of 2019, trade and an increase of 17%. US$322.3 million in 2018, the increase other receivables represented being principally due to the receipt of 31 days’ sales in the preceding quarter Basic earnings per share were (end of 2018: 24 days’ sales) after taking US$4.19 (2018: US$1.89) based on the consideration totalling US$282.2 million in relation to the IP licensing arrangements with into account our use of receivables weighted average of 71.9 million shares financing facilities. (2018: 74.0 million shares) that were in Apple. Excluding the cash inflow from the issue during the period excluding the licences, cash generated from operations Trade and other payables declined during weighted average of 1.8 million shares before changes in working capital was 2019, absorbing cash of US$23.1 million. (2018: 2.4 million shares) held by employee US$349.7 million in 2019. At the end of 2019, trade and other payables benefit trusts and, in 2019, the weighted Excluding the effect of acquisitions and represented 49 days’ cost of sales in the average of 2.7 million shares that were held disposals of businesses, net working capital preceding quarter (end of 2018: 50 days’ in treasury. Underlying basic earnings per increased by US$82.2 million in 2019 cost of sales). share were US$3.68 (2018: US$3.05). compared with an increase of US$0.7 million Movements on other working capital Diluted earnings per share were US$3.96 in 2018. items had the effect of releasing cash of (2018: US$1.80). Diluted earnings per share Inventory levels decreased during 2019, US$12.9 million during 2019. additionally reflect the weighted average releasing cash of US$23.2 million, principally Net interest received was US$17.3 million in of 4.3 million (2018: 3.7 million) dilutive reflecting lower expected sales volumes in 2019 compared with US$8.2 million in 2018. employee share options and awards. the first quarter of 2020 compared with the Underlying diluted earnings per share first quarter of 2019. At the end of 2019, Net income tax payments were were US$3.47 (2018: US$2.90). inventories represented 58 days’ cost US$70.5 million in 2019 compared with of sales in the preceding quarter (end of US$41.1 million in 2018. Income tax cash 2018: 61 days’ cost of sales). flows comprise payments on account in respect of current year taxable profits and adjusting payments or receipts in respect of earlier years. 67 Strategic report Dialog Semiconductor Plc Financial review continued Strong balance sheet continued Cash outflow from investing activities Cash outflow from financing activities We use currency derivatives to manage was US$147.9 million in 2019 compared with was US$3.0 million in 2019 compared with currency risks and we hold certain equity US$70.0 million in 2018. US$19.8 million in 2018. warrants for strategic reasons. We do not hold derivative financial instruments for Capital expenditure comprising cash During 2019, we recognised the receipt of speculative purposes. outflows in relation to the purchase of the prepayment from Apple at its fair value property, plant and equipment and intangible of US$288.6 million. We subsequently Cash and cash equivalents assets and capitalised development paid US$20.3 million in cash in partial Cash is managed in line with Treasury expenditure totalled US$36.0 million settlement of the first quarterly instalment policy to ensure there is no significant compared with US$57.1 million in 2018. of US$50.0 million in July 2019 but concentration of credit risk in any one Capital expenditure declined principally due settled the second quarterly instalment of financial institution. to the transfer of design centre businesses US$50.0 million in October 2019 wholly by in April 2019. recoupment against receivables. Credit risk is managed by reference to counterparty credit ratings. As a minimum, Free cash flow was US$449.4 million in 2019 During 2019, there was a cash outflow of a counterparty must generally have a compared with US$229.9 million in 2018. US$251.8 million (2018: $nil) on the purchase long-term public rating of at least ‘single A’ Our robust free cash flow provides a basis of shares under the Company’s share or equivalent. for financing strategic investments and for buyback programme (including transaction making distributions to shareholders. costs of US$1.3 million) and we paid Counterparty limits are based on a US$11.6 million on the settlement of currency ratings matrix and are closely monitored. During 2019, there was a net cash outflow hedges of share buyback liabilities. Credit risk is further limited by investing only of US$139.8 million (2018: cash outflow of in liquid instruments. US$12.8 million) in relation to the acquisition During 2019, the cash outflow on the of businesses. capital element of lease payments was At the end of 2019, cash and cash US$11.1 million, higher compared with equivalents amounted to US$1,024.5 million In May 2019, there was a cash outflow US$1.7 million in 2018 due to the recognition (end of 2018: US$677.8 million), which of US$44.6 million on completion of of additional lease liabilities following the principally comprised investments in money the acquisition of FCI (net of cash of adoption of IFRS 16. market funds and bank deposits with US$9.6 million held by the business on the a maturity of three months or less. acquisition date). In October 2019, there During 2019, employee benefit trusts was a cash outflow of US$76.4 million on received proceeds of US$3.4 million (2018: completion of the acquisition of Creative US$3.6 million) on the exercise of share Prepayment from Apple Chips (net of cash of US$7.3 million held by options. During 2019, the trusts made At the end of 2019, the principal amount the business on the acquisition date). no purchases of the Company’s shares of the prepayment outstanding was in the market since they held sufficient US$200.0 million, which is scheduled During 2019, we paid US$16.7 million to be settled in quarterly instalments shares following purchases at a cost of (2018: US$9.4 million) in settlement of by recoupment against invoices or in US$21.8 million during 2018. contingent consideration and US$2.1 million cash totalling US$125.0 million in 2020, (2018: US$2.8 million) in respect of deferred U$$50.0 million in 2021 and the balance consideration payable for Silego. Additionally, Liquidity and capital of US$25.0 million by April 2022. in February 2018, we paid a purchase price resources adjustment of US$0.7 million following We settled the third quarterly instalment of agreement with the vendors of Silego’s Financial risk management US$50.0 million in January 2020 wholly by cash, debt and working capital levels Dialog is exposed to financial risks including recoupment against invoices. on completion. counterparty credit risk, liquidity risk and market risks, which include foreign exchange Revolving credit facility In April 2019, we received proceeds of Since July 2017, we have had a committed risk and interest rate risk. Disclosures about US$27.8 million on the transfer of design US$150 million revolving credit facility these risks and the ways in which we centre businesses to Apple (net of cash provided by four financial institutions. manage them are presented in note 34 of US$1.5 million held by the businesses The facility is available for general corporate to the consolidated financial statements. on the transfer date). purposes. In June 2019, the facility was Dialog has a centralised treasury function extended for a further year and will now that is responsible for ensuring that mature on 28 July 2022. We retain the option adequate funding is available to meet the to increase the amount of the facility by Group’s requirements as they arise and for US$75 million subject to certain conditions. maintaining an efficient capital structure, together with managing the Group’s We have not made any drawings under counterparty credit risk, foreign currency the facility. and interest rate exposures. All treasury We consider that our significant cash operations are conducted in accordance balances and the revolving credit facility with strict policies and guidelines that are are sufficient to satisfy the Group’s working approved by the Board. capital requirements and other commitments in the near to medium term. 68 Annual report and accounts 2019 Strategic report Receivables financing facilities After taking into account hedging, we On 5 June 2019, we announced details We utilise non-recourse receivables recognised a net currency translation of the first tranche of purchases under financing facilities provided by two financial loss of US$4.6 million (2018: net loss of the 2019 AGM authority, under which the institutions in an aggregate amount of US$0.9 million) in profit or loss in relation Company committed to purchase shares US$240 million. In July 2019, the principal to liabilities to purchase shares under the with a minimum cost of €125.0 million and facility of US$220 million was extended for Company’s share buyback programme. a maximum cost of €150.0 million. a further two years and will now mature We completed the third and final settlement on 31 October 2021. Share buyback programme of this tranche on 19 December 2019. Since initiating the share buyback We purchased a total of 3,134,895 shares Gross receivables sold under the programme in May 2016, the Company under this tranche at a cost of €125.0 million facilities decreased by US$36.5 million to has purchased 11,560,563 of its own (US$139.0 million). We also incurred US$77.0 million at the end of 2019 compared ordinary shares and returned €393.7 million transaction costs of US$0.7 million. with US$113.5 million at the end of 2018. (US$435.1 million) to shareholders. Details of At the end of 2019, cash and cash the share purchases made during the last We will seek renewal of the share buyback equivalents included US$65.4 million three years are set out in note 29 to the authority at the Company’s 2020 AGM and (end of 2018: US$96.1 million) in relation consolidated financial statements. will consider initiating further tranches of to receivables sold under these facilities. share purchases in the context of our regular On 6 November 2018, we announced details assessment of the Group’s future growth of the first tranche of the share buyback opportunities and its strategic objectives. Currency hedging activities programme pursuant to an authority granted We use forward currency contracts and by shareholders at the Company’s 2018 currency swaps to manage the Group’s Capital management AGM, under which the Company committed exposure to currency risk on highly probable The Group’s capital is represented by its to purchase shares with a minimum cost forecast cash flows denominated in foreign total equity. of €100.0 million and a maximum cost of currencies; principally employment costs, €150.0 million. We seek to maintain a capital structure property rents and other contractual that supports the ongoing activities of our payments. We also use derivatives to We completed the first and final settlement business and its strategic objectives in order hedge the currency translation exposure of this tranche on 31 May 2019, purchasing to deliver long-term returns to shareholders. on the Euro-denominated liabilities that 3,941,852 shares at a cost of €100.0 million We allocate capital to support organic and arise in relation to the Company’s share (US$111.5 million). We also incurred inorganic growth, investing to support our buyback programme. transaction costs of US$0.6 million. research and development activities and our Derivative financial instruments are measured At the Company’s AGM on 2 May 2019, the product pipeline. at fair value that is determined based on Directors were granted a new authority to We will fund our growth using a mix of market forward exchange rates at the purchase up to 11,457,321 of the Company’s equity and debt after giving consideration balance sheet date. At the end of 2019, ordinary shares, representing approximately to prevailing market conditions. currency derivatives held by the Group were 15% of the issued ordinary share capital represented by a net liability of US$0.3 million of the Company as at 27 March 2019. (end of 2018: net liability of US$6.2 million). Such authority shall (unless previously Going concern renewed, varied or revoked) expire on the All currency derivatives held to hedge For the reasons set out on page 84, day before the next AGM of the Company or forecast cash flows were designated as the Directors continue to adopt the going on 30 June 2020, whichever is the earlier. hedging instruments in cash flow hedge concern basis in preparing the Group’s relationships. During 2019, a loss of Purchases made under the share buyback and the Company’s financial statements. US$3.9 million (2018: loss of US$10.1 million) programme are off-market and are effected We outline on pages 72 to 77 the principal was recognised in other comprehensive by way of contingent forward purchase risks and uncertainties that the Directors income, representing the change during the contracts entered into with brokers. Barclays, consider could adversely affect the Group’s year in the fair value of derivatives in effective Goldman Sachs, HSBC or Merrill Lynch may results, cash flows and financial position. hedging relationships, and a cumulative be appointed as brokers for purchases under loss of US$9.5 million (2018: gain of the 2019 AGM authority. US$2.3 million) was transferred from equity to profit or loss on the occurrence of the hedged cash flows. 69 Strategic report Dialog Semiconductor Plc Financial review continued Strong balance sheet continued Balance sheet Balance sheet Goodwill Summary balance sheet At the end of 2019, the carrying amount of As at As at goodwill was US$482.1 million compared 31 December 31 December with US$439.5 million at the end of US$ millions 2019 2018 2018, an increase of US$42.6 million. Assets During 2019, we recognised goodwill Cash and cash equivalents 1,024.5 677.8 totalling US$42.0 million on the acquisitions Other current assets 281.4 296.2 of Creative Chips and FCI. Total current assets 1,305.9 974.0 Goodwill impairment tests carried out during Goodwill 482.1 439.5 2019 showed that the recoverable amount of each operating segment to which goodwill is Other intangible assets 272.1 217.4 allocated exceeded its carrying amount and Property, plant and equipment – owned 61.1 66.4 therefore no impairment was recognised. Property, plant and equipment – leased 41.4 – Details of the impairment tests performed Other non-current assets 14.4 19.8 are set out in note 15 to the consolidated Total non-current assets 871.1 743.1 financial statements. Total assets 2,177.0 1,717.1 Other intangible assets Liabilities and equity At the end of 2019, the carrying Current liabilities 373.4 393.9 amount of other intangible assets Non-current liabilities 231.0 20.7 was US$272.1 million compared with Total liabilities 604.4 414.6 US$217.4 million at the end of 2018, an increase of US$54.7 million. During 2019, Total equity 1,572.6 1,302.5 additions totalled US$109.5 million, Total liabilities and equity 2,177.0 1,717.1 comprising identifiable intangible assets recognised on the acquisitions of Creative Chips and FCI of US$85.7 million, Leased property, plant and equipment Current liabilities capitalised product development costs of comprises right-of-use assets. On adoption Current liabilities were US$373.4 million US$15.4 million and purchased software, of IFRS 16 at the beginning of 2019, we at the end of 2019 compared with licences and patents totalling US$8.4 million. recognised right-of-use assets totalling US$393.9 million at the end of 2018, During 2019, the related amortisation US$66.4 million. By the end of 2019, the a decrease of US$20.5 million. expense was US$52.2 million (2018: carrying amount of right-of-use assets had US$49.1 million). Trade and other payables decreased declined to US$41.4 million, principally due by US$17.5 million to US$104.6 million. to the effect of lease terminations totalling Property, plant and equipment Other current financial liabilities decreased US$10.2 million and the depreciation Since we operate a fabless business by US$63.6 million to US$133.3 million. expense of US$12.5 million recognised model, we do not have any manufacturing Although there was no share buyback during 2019. facilities but we occupy R&D facilities and liability at the end of 2019 (end of 2018: administrative offices. With the exception US$171.8 million), this reduction was Other non-current assets partially offset by the addition of the current of two properties that we acquired with Other non-current assets totalled Creative Chips, all of our facilities are leased. element of the prepayment from Apple of US$14.4 million at the end of 2019 compared US$121.2 million and current lease liabilities At the end of 2019, the Group operated with US$19.8 million at the end of 2018, a of US$9.0 million following the adoption in 30 locations worldwide in facilities decrease of US$5.4 million that principally of IFRS 16. covering a total of 55,625 square reflected the recognition of further losses on metres. Management considers that the remeasurement of our investments in Income taxes payable increased by the Group’s facilities are adequate for its Energous shares and warrants. US$10.3 million to US$18.5 million, reflecting current requirements. higher taxable profits and the timing of Current assets tax payments. Owned property, plant and equipment Current assets were US$1,305.9 million Other current liabilities increased by principally comprises test equipment, office at the end of 2019 compared with US$53.5 million to US$117.0 million, equipment and leasehold improvements. US$974.0 million at the end of 2018, principally due to the addition of the current At the end of 2019, the carrying amount of an increase of US$331.9 million. element of the deferred revenue relating those assets was US$61.1 million (end of 2018: US$66.4 million). Additions during Cash and cash equivalents increased by to the effective IP licence granted to Apple 2019 totalled US$27.0 million, including US$346.7 million to US$1,024.5 million. of US$35.7 million. assets with a fair value of US$12.9 million Other current assets decreased by acquired with Creative Chips and FCI. US$14.8 million to US$281.4 million. During 2019, the related depreciation expense was US$27.2 million (2018: US$31.5 million). 70 Annual report and accounts 2019 Strategic report Non-current liabilities Consequences of Brexit Subsequent event Non-current liabilities amounted to US$231.0 million at the end of 2019 On 31 January 2020, the UK ceased to Proposed acquisition of Adesto compared with US$20.7 million at the end be a member of the EU and entered a On 20 February 2020, we announced of 2018, an increase of US$210.3 million. transition period that is scheduled to end on that Dialog has entered into a definitive 31 December 2020. agreement to acquire all of the outstanding Non-current financial liabilities increased shares in Adesto Technologies Corporation from US$0.8 million to US$115.0 million, During the transition period, the UK will (“Adesto”). principally due to the addition of the noncontinue to be subject to EU rules, will current element of the prepayment from remain in the EU single market and customs Adesto (NASDAQ: IOTS) is a leading Apple of US$73.2 million and non-current union, freedom of movement will remain in provider of innovative custom ICs and lease liabilities of US$34.1 million following place and UK and EU citizens’ rights will embedded systems for the IIoT market. the adoption of IFRS 16. continue unaffected. Headquartered in Santa Clara, California, Adesto has approximately 270 employees Deferred tax liabilities increased by It is intended that the transition period will and an established portfolio of industrial US$15.1 million to US$23.1 million principally provide a period of stability during which the solutions for smart building automation due to the recognition of deferred tax UK’s future trading relationship and security that complements Dialog’s range of liabilities on the identifiable intangible assets co-operation with the EU will be negotiated. manufacturing automation products. acquired with Creative Chips and FCI. Pending the negotiations, considerable Adesto’s solutions are sold across the uncertainty continues to exist as to the UK’s Other non-current liabilities increased from industrial, consumer, medical, and future relationship with the EU. US$11.9 million to US$92.9 million, principally communications markets. due to the addition of the non-current We continue to believe that Brexit will not Dialog proposes to acquire Adesto for element of the deferred revenue relating have a significant impact on Dialog in the US$12.55 per share in cash, representing to the effective IP licence granted to Apple short term because only a small amount of an enterprise value of approximately of US$82.2 million. our revenue is derived from customers in US$500 million, to be funded from our the UK. However, since approximately half existing cash balances. The transaction Total equity of our workforce is based in the EU and our is subject to certain regulatory approvals Total equity was US$1,572.6 million teams are typically comprised of several and customary closing conditions and at the end of 2019 compared with nationalities, we will monitor very closely is expected to close in the third quarter US$1,302.5 million at the end of 2018, proposed changes to the current regulations of 2020. an increase of US$270.1 million. in respect of the rights of EU and other nationals to work in the UK, and vice versa. At the end of 2019, Dialog shares held in Wissam Jabre treasury amounted to US$251.8 million The longer-term effects of Brexit on Chief Financial Officer, (end of 2018: US$nil) and Dialog shares our operating environment are difficult Senior Vice President, Finance held by employee benefit trusts amounted to predict and subject to wider global to US$22.1 million (end of 2018: macroeconomic trends and events, US$22.5 million). but may impact ourselves, our customers and other counterparties. During the transition period, we will operate on a business as usual basis within applicable regulations and our continuing focus will be on growing our business. 71 Strategic report Dialog Semiconductor Plc Managing risk and uncertainty This section sets out a description of the principal risks and uncertainties that could adversely impact the Company’s financial situation or reputation and therefore its ability to execute its strategic objectives. Our risk management framework The Board Operational Internal Audit The Risk and Audit Management Management Committee Office The Board is responsible for The Management Team is Internal Audit’s role is to provide The RMO meets quarterly. It is approving the Company’s responsible for managing independent assurance to chaired by the Chief Financial strategic aims and objectives risk within the business on a the Audit Committee and Officer and is composed of the and for determining the nature day-to-day basis. They set the Management Team on heads of the Legal and Risk and extent of the risks it is objectives, determine strategy the effectiveness of risk Management functions, plus willing to take in achieving to achieve those objectives management and control. senior representation from those objectives. The Board and put in place processes To ensure Internal Audit’s across the business. The role seeks to maintain sound risk to manage the attendant independence from line of the RMO is to improve the management and internal risks. The Management management, the Director of identification and quantification control systems. It delegates Team provides input to the Internal Audit is accountable of risks, to assign responsibility responsibility for monitoring Corporate Risk Register which to the Audit Committee. for risk mitigation and to monitor the effectiveness of these to is then reviewed by the Risk The Internal Audit activities the progress being made in the Audit Committee, which Management Office (“RMO”) are governed by an Internal those activities. The RMO has meets a minimum of four times and the Audit Committee. Audit plan, which is developed accountability for reporting key per year. At least annually, the with reference to, amongst risks and their status to the Audit Committee will review the other things, the corporate Management Team and the effectiveness of the Group’s risk risk register and the plan Audit Committee. and control processes. is approved by the Audit Committee. Based upon its activity, Internal Audit is responsible for reporting significant risk exposures and identified control issues to the Audit Committee and to Senior Management. Emerging risks New and emerging risks are identified and discussed as part of the Corporate Risk Register update process, with review by Operational Management, the RMO and Audit Committee. Over the last 12 months we have seen the continuing development of geopolitical risks to the business, whilst M&A risk has become more apparent as Dialog seeks further acquisitions. Dialog’s supply chain partners and customers’ contract manufacturing operations are predominantly located in China, Taiwan and South Korea. As such they are exposed to the current outbreak of COVID-19 respiratory illness which could have an adverse effect on business operations. Dialog has already seen customers’ contract manufacturing operations operating at reduced capacity. These disruptions are likely to have some impact on sales and operating results. Viewed more broadly, should COVID-19 become pandemic and result in a widespread global health crisis, it could reduce demand for our end customers’ products. Climate change Although not currently believed to be material, Dialog is exposed to some extent to the regulatory and physical risks associated with climate change. The nature of our business as a fabless manufacturer, means that Dialog’s own operations are unlikely to face any specific material risks as a result of the physical impacts of climate change such as property damage due to extreme weather events. Dialog’s key assets are our employees, and our intellectual property both of which are mobile and no Dialog locations are prone to flood or windstorm. Dialog’s manufacturing partners have implemented multiple initiatives to reduce their carbon footprint, review water and energy usage and to understand and manage the effects of climate change on their own operations. Regulations addressing greenhouse gas emissions are evolving in many markets which could impact our business indirectly. In the longer term, changes in these regulations could result in increased costs in our supply chain due to higher compliance, raw materials or energy costs to our suppliers. However, improving energy efficiency for end customers is a key element of many of Dialog’s products and this mitigates some of the risks associated with climate change as well as underlining the company’s commitment to being part of the solution to the challenge that climate change represents. 72 Annual report and accounts 2019 Strategic report Key to risk trends Risk increasing No change Risk decreasing Our principal risks The Company is affected by a number of risk factors, some of which, including macroeconomic and industry-specific cyclical risks, are outside Dialog’s control. The Company recognises four categories of risks: 1 Strategic 2 Operational 3 Financial 4 Legal and compliance 1 Strategic risks Dialog management is focused on executing its strategic objectives in order to mitigate its dependencies on key markets and customers. As part of our 2019 review, a risk relating to mergers and acquisitions has been added to our strategic risks. Dependency on mobile and consumer electronics Mitigating actions Dialog’s product portfolio is heavily focused upon the mobile We engage with our customers to understand their requirements and and consumer electronics market. Dialog’s revenue is heavily tailor the products we design to their specifications. Dialog expensed reliant upon the commercial success of its customers’ end US$314 million in R&D in 2019 to anticipate and respond to new products, principally in the high-end mobile phone market. If the product developments and market trends. The Company rapidly market for these products flattens or declines, Dialog’s revenue implements new designs to meet customer needs and to keep and profitability will be impacted. Furthermore, the consumer abreast of technological trends. electronics market is characterised by short product cycles and Examples include automotive grade Configurable Mixed-signal ICs, rapid innovation which provide opportunities for customers to low power Wi-Fi for portable IoT applications and custom ICs for change suppliers for subsequent product generations based on industrial ethernet. competitive factors such as price, quality, technology or specific product specifications. Dialog also looks for technology and product acquisitions where appropriate. Examples include the acquisitions of FCI and its low power Wi-Fi technology and Creative Chips and their custom industrial ethernet technologies. Dependency on key customers Mitigating actions Dialog relies on a relatively small number of customers, within Dialog seeks to diversify its product offerings within its key the mobile and consumer electronics market, for a substantial accounts and to expand its relationships with more top tier global proportion of its revenue. The loss of our largest customer, Apple electronics companies. Inc. or of specific products sold to Apple, would have a material As a result of the IP licensing deal with Apple, Dialog expects to effect on revenue and profitability. Dialog’s 2019 revenue derived reduce its dependency on Apple over a three-to five-year term from Apple Inc. is shown on page 172, note 35c. and diversify its future Apple revenue across a range of power Apple’s capability to internally design PMICs has been enhanced management, audio subsystem, charging and other mixed through the transaction between Dialog and Apple completed signal products. in April 2019. Dialog monitors and reviews acquisition opportunities to further diversify its product offering and customer base as evidenced by the recent acquisitions of both FCI and Creative Chips. Return on research and development investment Mitigating actions Dialog’s investments in research and development of products, Dialog engages with key customers and market leaders to anticipate technology and methodologies may not result in successful future product and technology requirements. products or anticipated levels of revenue or profitability. Dialog’s ongoing product and technology development processes incorporate detailed business justifications and review of business cases. Dialog seeks to manage its technology and product research and development efficiently and effectively through rigorous project management and engineering controls. 73 Strategic report Dialog Semiconductor Plc Managing risk and uncertainty continued 1 Strategic risks continued Dialog management is focused on executing its strategic objectives in order to mitigate its dependencies on key markets and customers. As part of our 2019 review, a risk relating to mergers and acquisitions has been added to our strategic risks. Human capital Mitigating actions In order to successfully execute its current and future business Dialog seeks to create a positive working environment that results commitments, Dialog needs to continue to build its organisational in low levels of staff turnover. Over the years, it has developed an capability in two key areas: continuous innovation in product effective recruitment process to attract and retain high-calibre development, manufacturing and packaging technologies; and staff, while succession planning for senior management positions leadership skills in an expanding and complex global operation. facilitates continuity of leadership. Dialog has dedicated human resource professionals working closely with the business to drive further development of its personnel and benchmark its employment terms to match industry top performers. Dialog has a decentralised approach to research & development with teams around the world. In a highly competitive talent market we believe this flexible approach is advantageous, allowing us to recruit talent where it resides and as a defence mechanism to stop large scale “poaching” by competitors. Emerging talent programmes continued successfully in 2019, with new graduates and interns entering the business – the majority within engineering functions. Dialog continues to monitor the progress of Brexit discussions and any impact these may have on our ability to attract and retain key employees from the EU into the UK. Geopolitical events Mitigating actions Increasing global trade tensions, including the introduction of Dialog continues to monitor the global trade situation closely. tariffs and trade barriers between the US and China and the US Supply Chain options are constantly under review to ensure the and the EU could adversely impact global demand, for Dialog’s most efficient arrangements are in place. Trade friction between US products and those of our customers. and China can result in fewer US goods being purchased in China, and there could be repercussions throughout the industry. Uncertainty about rules after the UK’s withdrawal from the EU may adversely affect economic conditions in the UK, the EU Dialog will continue to monitor very closely any proposed changes and elsewhere. We continue to believe that Brexit will not have to the current regulations in respect of the rights of EU and other a significant impact on Dialog in the short term because only nationals to work in the UK, and vice versa. a small amount of our revenue is derived from customers in Dialog will continue to monitor events in the Ukraine. Our IT the UK. However, approximately two thirds of our workforce is infrastructure ensures that projects could continue at multiple based in the EU and our teams are typically comprised of several locations should operations in Ukraine become too difficult nationalities. We have not yet experienced any material negative to maintain. impact from Brexit, but we cannot predict its future implications. Tensions exist between Ukraine and Russia which, if escalated further, could potentially affect Dialog’s continuing operations in Western Ukraine. Mergers & acquisitions Mitigating actions Dialog has acquired, and expects in the future to acquire, Dialog has an experienced corporate development team responsible additional business that we believe will complement or augment for coordinating our acquisition identification, execution and our existing businesses. integration activities. There is risk that an acquisition could prove more difficult to Dialog has significant recent experience in successfully, acquiring integrate than anticipated and that expected synergies are not and integrating new businesses, including Silego in 2018 and both fully achieved. We may have difficulty in developing and marketing FCI and Creative Chips in 2019. the products of a newly acquired company, or in growing the Dialog’s processes for acquisitions include: disciplined target business at the rate we anticipate. We may also suffer loss of identification, in-depth due diligence, synergy analysis and business key employees, customers and strategic partners of acquired modelling, integration planning and detailed execution, which companies and it may be difficult to implement our corporate processes benefit from the lessons learned through each acquisition. culture at acquired companies. This could mean a consequent failure to realise the expected value from an acquisition. 74 Annual report and accounts 2019 Strategic report Key to risk trends Risk increasing No change Risk decreasing 2 Operational risks Dialog recognises that quality, reliability and time-to-market for high volume supply of complex ICs is a critical factor for the success of its customers. Therefore, the effectiveness and efficiency of Dialog’s internal operations and management of its supplier relationships are significant factors contributing to its short-term and long-term performance. We run programmes to drive continuous improvement through all facets of the value chain from design to order fulfilment. Supply chain interruption Mitigating actions Dialog runs a “high-touch” fabless business model and Dialog has forged close partnerships with its suppliers, which help outsources the capital intensive production of silicon wafers, capacity planning and management. Dialog’s suppliers are mainly packaging and testing of integrated circuits to leading third-party highly respected large-scale operations. Dialog strives to source suppliers, mainly in Asia. The manufacturing of products runs its high volume components via a dual sourcing strategy where over multiple stages with multiple suppliers. The failure of any appropriate. Dialog works with a range of foundries and offshore of these third-party vendors to deliver products or otherwise assembly and test (“OSAT”) vendors, mainly in Taiwan, China and perform as required could damage relationships with our the Philippines, to mitigate the risk of supply chain disruption and customers, decreasing our revenue and limiting our growth. constraints. The geographical spread of Dialog’s suppliers also helps Supplier delivery performance can be adversely affected by with disaster recovery planning. multiple issues such as fire, floods, earthquakes or pandemics. Dialog achieved a total company “On Time Delivery” performance of 99.9% in 2019, which measures performance against delivery dates confirmed by Dialog at date of order acceptance. Dialog continues to carry out supplier audits which cover a wide range of topics including, amongst others, compliance with quality, environmental and health and safety standards. Dialog conducts regular business reviews with its suppliers to manage supplier performance and future capabilities. Information technology and security Mitigating actions Dialog is heavily dependent upon the quality, resilience Dialog is continuously strengthening its internal monitoring and and security of its information systems, which support controls; applying best practice to maintain a robust and secure the engineering, manufacturing and enterprise aspects IT environment. of the business. Dialog’s IT systems are managed on a global basis to ensure Risks relating to cyber security continue to grow, with a unified approach, with IT operations being distributed between consequent risks to assets, intellectual property and the Europe, Asia and the USA. data of the Company, its customers and its employees. Engineering tools are being consolidated into regional data centres connected by an upgraded network to allow increased agility, reliability and scale. Joint roadmaps have been developed with the business to align and prioritise IT investment with evolving business needs and to maintain compliance and controls. IT policies, procedures and cyber security initiatives are reviewed and updated regularly by the RMO to address the changing regulatory environment, including data privacy regulations and to mitigate the evolving cyber security threat. Quality assurance Mitigating actions Given the timetables for some key product introductions, Dialog operates a “high-touch” fabless model, with engineers Dialog must ensure tight control over the new product working closely together with our foundry partners to optimise the introduction process and in particular quality assurance manufacturing process. in high‑volume product ramps. Dialog emphasises quality assurance through product validation Delivering faulty products may cause delays in the assembly prior to mass production, in-line controls and monitoring of yields line of Dialog’s customers and defects in their products, with real-time information feeds from manufacturing facilities. with consequent contractual liabilities and risks to the Dialog works with key suppliers to achieve industry-leading yields customer relationship. based upon typical defect density limitations. To support this, Dialog has engineers located at key supplier sites. Yield performance on key products is monitored during regular internal operational reviews. 75 Strategic report Dialog Semiconductor Plc Managing risk and uncertainty continued 3 Financial risks As is typical within the semiconductor sector, Dialog operates across the globe. This exposes the Company to several financial risks including fluctuations in interest and foreign exchange rates as well as credit risk relating to counterparties the Company transacts with. It also needs to ensure access to liquidity at all times to meet its financial obligations and investment in future growth. Through proactive stewardship and financial discipline, we seek to mitigate the impact of these risks on the financial performance of the Company. Foreign currency Mitigating actions The majority of Dialog’s revenue and expenses are denominated Discrete currency exposures are managed on a case-by-case basis. in US dollars. Some exposure exists to non-USD denominated Transactional currency exposures are managed using forward operating expenditure, primarily Euro and pound sterling, currency contracts, hedging no further than 12 months out using meaning exchange rate volatility could have an adverse impact a layered approach. These are designated as cash flow hedges on our financial results. and at the year-end approximately US$148 million equivalent were outstanding. During the year, Euro-denominated share buyback liabilities were also hedged using forward currency contracts, forming an economic hedge but not designated for hedge accounting purposes. Please refer to notes and to the consolidated financial statements. Counterparty risk Mitigating actions Dialog is exposed to the potential default of banks, suppliers The Company uses non-recourse receivables financing to help and customers. If their credit worthiness were to change, manage credit risk of selected customers. When executing financial this could have an adverse effect on Dialog’s business and transactions, Dialog deals with reputable financial institutions in financial condition. accordance with Board approved policy. Financial stability is a key selection criteria for all suppliers. Annual performance reviews are carried out for key suppliers by Dialog’s Manufacturing Review Board.* * The Manufacturing Review Board is an internal management committee responsible for supplier lifecycle management, supplier performance, onboarding and phasing out of suppliers as required, according to Dialog’s manufacturing strategy. Funding and liquidity Mitigating actions The risk of being unable to continue to meet the financial The business has no net debt and is cash generative. As such, the obligations/requirements of our operations and provide resources Company finances its operations from surplus cash, only raising debt for future growth. when necessary. The policy is to maintain a sufficient level of liquidity appropriate to meet short-term liabilities and longer-term strategy. Cash flow from operating activities in 2019 was US$496 million. In addition the Company has a US$150 million revolving credit facility which remains undrawn. 76 Annual report and accounts 2019 Strategic report Key to risk trends Risk increasing No change Risk decreasing 4 Legal and compliance risks As Dialog has an increasingly global presence, it continues to update and enhance its policies, processes and procedures to comply with international and local requirements. Dialog recognises the importance of behaving as a good corporate citizen across the globe. In addition, the Company seeks to utilise the legal protection offered across the globe to protect our assets, including our intellectual property rights. Compliance with laws and regulations Mitigating actions Dialog is subject to national and regional laws and regulations in Dialog monitors laws and legal and regulatory changes across the such diverse areas as product safety, product claims, patents, countries in which it operates and continues to update its policies, copyright, trademarks, competition, employee health and safety, processes and compliance programmes. the environment, corporate governance, share listing and related We audit our key suppliers to ensure their compliance with industry disclosure, employment and taxes. Failure to comply with laws standards and legal requirements. and regulations could expose Dialog to civil and/or criminal actions leading to damages, fines and criminal sanctions against We also continue to strengthen our system of internal controls, us and/or our employees with possible consequences for our procedures and resources which reinforce compliance with various financial results and corporate reputation. Changes to laws legal regimes. and regulations could have a material impact on our cost of doing business. Tax, in particular, is a complex area where laws and their interpretation are changing regularly, leading to the risk of unexpected tax exposures. Intellectual property protection Mitigating actions As a highly innovative company Dialog has technology that is Dialog has in excess of 1,000 inventions for which we are pursuing or attractive to others. Dialog must ensure that this technology is have already obtained patent protection, and we continue an active sufficiently protected both legally (via patents) and physically patent registration programme overseen by the Patent Committee. (via security and IT processes). We seek to protect our current Dialog has continued to make investments to improve the tools business and our Intellectual Property from being copied or used used to protect its Intellectual Property. Engineering projects are by others through appropriate use of patents, copyrights and segregated and access controlled via a tracked approval process. trademarks on a global basis. Intellectual property infringement Mitigating actions The semiconductor industry is characterised by frequent litigation Dialog invests significantly in original research and development regarding intellectual property rights. We may be subject to to address product requirements with innovative solutions. claims by third parties who allege that our products infringe Furthermore, we have invested in a robust patent protection their patents or other intellectual property rights. Such claims programme to deter frivolous infringement claims by competitors. against us or our customers could adversely affect our business Dialog also seeks indemnification for intellectual property and require us to pay royalties/damages or expend significant infringement by its suppliers. resources to modify or redesign our products. Strategic report approved on 4 March 2020 Dr Jalal Bagherli Wissam Jabre Chief Executive Officer Chief Financial Officer, Senior Vice President Finance 77 Corporate governance Dialog Semiconductor Plc Our corporate governance framework Management Team Audit Finance Committee Internal Audit –– Comprised of nonRisk Management Office executive Directors. –– Oversees the Company’s financial reporting, internal control and risk management procedures, and the work of the internal and external auditors. Company Secretary Human Resources Remuneration Board of Directors Nomination Committee Committee –– Comprised of nonComprised of the –– Comprised of nonexecutive Directors. Chairman, Executive and executive Directors. –– Reviews and makes non‑executive Directors. –– Reviews Board structure, recommendations in size and composition. Has overall responsibility for respect of salaries and –– Responsible for succession the leadership, control and incentive compensation of planning for Directors. oversight of the Company. the officers of the Company –– Diversity strategy and the and its subsidiaries. development of a diverse –– Provides recommendations pipeline of candidates. to the Management Team –– Identifies and nominates for other employees and Board candidates for consultants as appropriate. approval by the Board. Human Resources Executive Company Secretary Directors –– The Board has delegated the day-to-day management of the Company to the CEO who is accountable to the Board. 78 Annual report and accounts 2019 Introduction to governance Dear shareholder, the year. The Nomination Committee has Understanding our stakeholders reviewed the succession plans for the Board, As set out in the Chairman’s statement, I am pleased to present the Management Team and other key roles the Board continues to take account of our 2019 corporate within the organisation. This review also the impact of its decisions on all of our provided visibility of Dialog’s talent pipeline stakeholders. We have also begun to governance report. to ensure we are maximising the potential assess the engagement approach to of our people. ensure a meaningful level of engagement Corporate governance As Dialog is incorporated in the UK and listed in Frankfurt, we are not required to between the Board and the workforce. follow, and report against, the UK Corporate Board refreshment In 2019, I became the designated director Governance Code (“The Code”). However, Aidan Hughes, stepped down at the 2019 of overseeing employee engagement in in line with our commitment to maintaining AGM, and Joanne Curin was appointed collaboration with our global HR teams. high standards of corporate governance to the Board effective 1 August 2019 as This engagement, amongst other things, and oversight, the Board has decided to a new independent non-executive Director. will allow Directors to gauge how the Group’s follow The Code to the extent it considers Ms. Curin, was also appointed to the Audit new strategic initiatives are embedding within it beneficial to the good governance of Committee to ensure that the Committee’s the organisation. In this role, I have reviewed the Company. composition remains aligned with best the annual engagement results, the Voice practice corporate governance. of Dialog, and facilitated employee round 2019 developments table meetings as part of the Board visit to Our Board continues to include an the design centre in Germering, Germany. It has been a year of change for UK appropriate balance of longer serving and The alignment of our strategy, corporate corporate governance. There is a renewed more recently appointed Directors, with culture and corporate governance framework focus on corporate culture which is diverse backgrounds and experience. provides us with the foundation to ably meet evidenced by the breadth of reporting This serves to bring fresh thinking to the any challenges that the business faces, and requirements. The purpose of companies Board yet preserves the knowledge, position us for long-term growth. and their place in society is being redefined experience and understanding of the with a clear mandate for boards to be Since 2015, the Company has adopted the evolution of the Dialog business within the more transparent about how businesses Global Reporting Initiative (“GRI”) framework Board as a whole, all of which provides the operate; interact with their stakeholders; for the purpose of identifying and reporting platform for fruitful discussion at Board level. and take their views into consideration when on our material sustainability topics. In 2018, formulating strategy. In 2019, we conducted an internal evaluation. we transitioned to the GRI Standards, The Directors found it helpful in promoting against which our annual report makes a Updates to legislation also came into effectiveness at a Board level. The outcome “GRI-referenced” claim. In 2019, we took effect from 1 January 2019, which focused of the review was positive and confirmed that the first step towards an integrated report, on stakeholder engagement and the the Board and its Committees operate to a bringing into a single document all the ratio between pay for the CEO and the high standard. information we previously published in the Company’s median employee. The Directors’ statement on section 172 of the companies sustainability report, relating to our activities; Senior Independent Director (“SID”) our interaction with stakeholders; and, in act is disclosed on page 28 while the pay Having carefully considered the role and respect of environmental, employee, social, ratio of the CEO to median employee is responsibilities of a Senior Independent human and labour rights, anti-corruption and detailed on page 103. Director, and the fact that our Chairman, anti-bribery matters. Additionally, we published our Gender Pay Rich Beyer, was wholly independent on Gap report and our approach to tax. appointment in 2013, the Board does not Finally, as we have outlined before, as a believe there is a necessity to appoint a Board, we recognise the importance of Culture and stakeholders SID at this time. Our Chairman Rich Beyer constructive dialogue between the Board Dialog is a business built upon the values is available to shareholders as are all of the and Dialog’s investors, and we remain open enshrined in “The Spirit of Dialog”, the Directors, particularly the Chairs of each of to all feedback from shareholders. In October cornerstone of our corporate values. the Board Committees. Furthermore, any 2019, our Chairman met with shareholders in Our corporate culture defines who we concerns regarding the performance of the London and Frankfurt. In addition to ongoing are, what we stand for and how we do Chairman may be addressed to and will be meetings and consultation conducted business. Our reputation has been built managed by the Chair of the Nomination throughout the year, all Directors are usually on our resolve to maintain the highest Committee. As such, the Board believes available at the Company’s AGM and we ethical and professional standards at all that its composition continues to ensure encourage you to take advantage of this times, underpinned by a well-defined and a proper division between management opportunity should you wish to meet with effective system of governance. Our people and non-executive oversight; nonetheless, and engage in discussion with any member are our greatest asset and we recognise we will review the potential for a new SID of your Board. and understand the value of recruiting and on an ongoing basis. developing the best. By living our values, our Nick Jeffery people differentiate us from our competitors, Remuneration Chairman, Nomination Committee helping us to attract new business and retain The Directors’ remuneration report, our customers. It is therefore important that together with an introductory letter from all of our people understand the importance our Remuneration Committee Chairman, of our values and the role they play in our Mike Cannon, is set out on page 92. distinctive, delivery focused culture. During 2019, Mike and the Chairman conducted extensive engagement with Succession planning a majority of our shareholders both in the Succession planning is an important element lead-up to and following the 2019 AGM. of good governance, ensuring that we are fully prepared for planned or sudden departures from key positions throughout 79 Corporate governance Dialog Semiconductor Plc Leadership – Board of Directors The Board of Dialog currently comprises 1. Rich Beyer Chairman eight Directors. This includes our Chairman, Joined: February 2013 one Executive Director, and six independent Appointed Chairman in July 2013. Rich has a non-executive Directors. long-standing career in the technology sector. He was the Chairman and CEO of Freescale Semiconductor from 2008 to 2012. Prior to 1 2 this, he held positions as CEO and Director of Intersil Corporation, Elantec Semiconductor and FVC.com. He has also held senior leadership positions at VLSI Technology and National Semiconductor Corporation. In 2012, he was Chairman of the Semiconductor Industry Association Board of Directors and served for three years as a member of the US Department of Commerce’s Manufacturing Council. He currently serves on the Board of 3 4 Micron Technology Inc. and previously served on the Boards of Analog Devices, Microsemi Corporation (now Microchip Technology), Credence Systems Corporation (now LTXCredence), XCeive Corporation and Signet Solar. Rich served three years as an officer in the United States Marine Corps. He earned Bachelor’s and Master’s degrees in Russian from Georgetown University, and an MBA in marketing and international business 5 6 from Columbia University Graduate School of Business. External Appointments: Rich currently serves on the Board of Micron Technology Inc. Board Experience: 2. Dr Jalal Bagherli 7 8 Executive Director (Chief Executive Officer) Joined: September 2005 Jalal was previously Vice President and General Manager of the Mobile Multimedia business unit for Broadcom Corporation. Prior to that Jalal was the CEO of Alphamosaic, a venture-funded silicon startup company in Cambridge focusing on video processing chips for mobile applications. He has extensive experience in the semiconductor industry through his previous The Board of Directors comprises a mix fresh thinking to the Board yet preserves the professional and executive positions at Sony of the necessary skills, knowledge and knowledge, experience and understanding Semiconductor and Texas Instruments, experience required to provide leadership, of the evolution of the Dialog business within managing semiconductor product control and oversight of the management the Board as a whole. businesses and working with customers in of the Company and to contribute to the Asia, Europe and North America. Jalal has Further details on the composition of the development and implementation of the a BSc (Hons) in Electronics Engineering Board, and the Board’s Committees, Company’s strategy. from Essex University, and holds a PhD in are detailed on page 87. In particular, the Board combines a group Electronics from Kent University, UK. of Directors with diverse backgrounds External Appointments: Jalal has been a within the technology sector, in both public non-executive Director of Lime Microsystems and private companies, which combine to Ltd since 2005 and was the Chairman of the provide the expertise to drive the continuing Board experience Global Semiconductor Association Europe development of Dialog, advance the – Technology from 2011 to 2013. Company’s commercial objectives and – Telecommunications strategy, thus putting the Company in a – Finance Board Experience: strong position to maximise shareholder – Governance value. The Board also combines a number of longer serving Directors with more recently appointed Directors. This serves to bring 80 Annual report and accounts 2019 3. Alan Campbell 5. Mary Chan 7. Nick Jeffery Independent non-executive Director Independent non-executive Director Independent non-executive Director Joined: April 2015 Joined: December 2016 Joined: July 2016 Alan brings over 30 years of relevant Mary’s career has spanned executive Nick has a career of over 20 years business and financial expertise to leadership roles at some of the world’s most in the telecommunications industry. Dialog Semiconductor, having extensive successful international firms, including AT&T, He has held a position on the Vodafone Corporate governance experience as a Chief Financial Officer in Alcatel Lucent, Dell Inc. and General Motors Executive Committee since 2013 and the semiconductor industry. He began his Corporation (“GM”). At Dell, between 2009 from 1 September 2016 became CEO of career in 1979 with Motorola and has spent and 2012, Ms Chan led the Company’s Vodafone UK Limited. He has undertaken over 12 years in Europe and 20 years in the Enterprise Mobility Solutions and Services numerous roles within Vodafone including USA. In 2004, he guided Freescale through business in the USA. Prior to this, at AlcatelCEO of the Group’s acquired Cable and its separation from Motorola and successfully Lucent, Ms Chan served as Executive Vice Wireless Worldwide operations from 2012 executed an initial public offering (“IPO”) President of the Company’s 4G LTE Wireless to 2013, and CEO of Vodafone Group that listed the company on the New York Networks business. Most recently at GM, Enterprise from 2013 to 2016. Having begun Stock Exchange (“NYSE”). In 2006, he was Ms Chan served between 2012 and 2015 his career at Cable & Wireless plc (Mercury instrumental in the execution of a Leverage as President, Global Connected Consumers Communications) in 1991, he then founded Buy-Out (“LBO”) in one of the largest & OnStar Service. She holds both Bachelor and led Microfone Limited in 2001, whilst technology financial transactions at that time. and Master of Science degrees in Electrical serving as Head of Worldwide Sales and In 2011, he successfully led the company Engineering from Columbia University. Europe Managing Director at Ciena Inc. back to the public market to be listed on from 2002 until 2004. External Appointments: Ms Chan is a the NYSE. managing partner at VectoIQ, LLC., and External Appointments: CEO, External Appointments: Alan is currently currently serves as an Independent Director Vodafone UK. Chairman of ON Semiconductor. on the Boards of Magna International, Committee Membership: Nomination Microelectronics Technology Inc, and SBA Committee Membership: Audit (Chair) (Chair), Remuneration Communications Corporation. Board Experience: Board Experience: Committee Membership: Nomination, 4. Mike Cannon Remuneration 8. Eamonn O’Hare Independent non-executive Director Board Experience: Independent non-executive Director Joined: February 2013 Joined: March 2014 6. Joanne Curin Mike’s career in the high-tech industry Eamonn has spent over two decades as Independent non-executive Director spans 30 years. He was President, Global CFO of some of the world’s fastest-growing Joined: August 2019 Operations of Dell from February 2007 consumer and technology businesses. until his retirement in 2009. Prior to joining Joanne comes to Dialog with over 20 years From 2009 to 2013, he was CFO and main Dell, Mike was the CEO of Solectron of experience as a CFO and non-executive board member of Virgin Media Inc. and led Corporation, an electronic manufacturing director, with a deep background in finance its successful sale to Liberty Global Inc. services company, which he joined as and an international career spanning global in 2013. From 2005 to 2009, he served as CEO in 2003. From 1996 until 2003, Mike large-scale public companies listed in the CFO of the UK operations at Tesco plc. was CEO of Maxtor Corporation, a disk UK and Australia. In her previous roles as Before joining Tesco, he was CFO and Board drive and storage systems company, CFO across a wide array of markets and Director at Energis Communications and led and successfully led the NASDAQ IPO of sectors, Joanne has been highly effective at the successful turnaround of this high profile Maxtor in 1998. Mike previously held senior initiating and leading strategic, operational UK telecoms company. Prior to this, Eamonn management positions at IBM and Control and process changes that have delivered spent ten years at PepsiCo Inc. in a series Data Corporation. Mike studied Mechanical considerable shareholder value, and has of senior executive roles in Europe, Asia and Engineering at Michigan State University successfully led a number of complex multithe Middle East. Eamonn spent the early part and completed the Advanced Management billion dollar M&A transactions. Joanne has of his career in the aerospace industry with Program at Harvard Business School. a bachelor’s degree in commerce from the companies that included Rolls-Royce PLC University of Auckland and is a member of and BAE Systems PLC. External Appointments: Mike currently the Institute of Chartered Accountants in serves on the Boards of Seagate External Appointments: Eamonn is New Zealand. Technology as the Lead Independent currently Founder, Chairman and CEO of Director and Chairman of the Nominating External Appointments: Joanne is a Zegona Communications Plc, and a Director and Governance Committee and also founding Director of Stirling Industries Plc. of Euskaltel, S.A. serves on the Compensation Committee, Committee Membership: Audit Committee Membership: Audit and on the Lam Research Corporation Board on the Audit Committee and the Board Experience: Board Experience: Nominating and Corporate Governance Committee. Mike was previously on the Board of Directors of the US – China Business Council. Committee Membership: Remuneration (Chair), Nomination Board Experience: 81 Corporate governance Dialog Semiconductor Plc Leadership – Management Team 1. Dr Jalal Bagherli 1 2 Chief Executive Officer Jalal joined Dialog as CEO and an Executive Board Director in September 2005. He was previously Vice President & General Manager of the Mobile Multimedia business unit for Broadcom Corporation. Prior to that, Jalal was the CEO of Alphamosaic, a venture-funded silicon start-up company in Cambridge focusing on video processing chips for mobile applications. He has 3 4 extensive experience in the semiconductor industry, through his previous professional and executive positions at Sony Semiconductor and Texas Instruments, managing semiconductor product businesses and working with customers in Asia, Europe and North America. Jalal is a non-executive Director of Lime Microsystems Ltd since 2005 and was the Chairman of Global Semiconductor Association Europe 5 6 from 2011 to 2013. He has a BSc (Hons) in Electronics Engineering from Essex University, and holds a PhD in Electronics from Kent University, UK. Tenure with Dialog: 14 years 2. Vivek Bhan Senior Vice President, and General Manager, Custom Mixed Signal 7 8 Business Group Vivek joined Dialog in November 2013 and is responsible for the Custom Mixed Signal Business Segment. He brings a wealth of engineering leadership experience in the semiconductor industry including technology and products for advanced cellular systems, connectivity and medical applications within RF, mixed-signal and SOC space. He has held senior positions at Freescale, Fujitsu 9 10 Semiconductor and Motorola. Vivek holds a MS in Electrical Engineering and MBA from Arizona State University. Tenure with Dialog: Six years 3. Wissam Jabre Chief Financial Officer, Senior Vice President, Finance Wissam joined Dialog in 2016 after serving 11 as Corporate Vice President of Finance at Advanced Micro Devices (“AMD”) since 2014. Between 2003 and 2014, he held various executive positions at Freescale Semiconductor, including Vice President and Chief Procurement Officer, Vice President Global Pricing, Chief Financial Officer of the Networking & Multimedia Solutions Group. Wissam began his career at Schlumberger, gaining international experience in the Middle East, Europe and North America, before joining Motorola. He holds a Bachelor of Electrical Engineering degree from the American University of Beirut and an MBA from Columbia Business School, New York. Wissam is a CFA® charterholder. Tenure with Dialog: Three years 82 Annual report and accounts 2019 4. Davin Lee Julie spent time in New York and Paris. attorney with Davis Polk & Wardwell Senior Vice President and General Julie joined American Express in New LLP. Earlier in his career, Colin served in Manager, Advanced Mixed Signal York in 2003 in International Benefits and manufacturing management and operational Business Group moved to VP Global Mobility and HR and organisational improvement roles Davin joined Dialog in July 2014. He was Business Partner, Global Business Travel. with National Semiconductor Corporation. previously CEO of Scintera Networks. She relocated to Sydney in 2011 as the He holds a Law degree from the Columbia Prior to that, Davin was the Vice-President VP HR Australia and New Zealand and University Law School and a Bachelor’s Corporate governance and General Manager of the Consumer then moved to the UK as VP HR Business and two Master’s degrees from Brigham Business Unit at Intersil Corporation. Partner EMEA. During her career, Julie has Young University. Prior to that, Davin was Vice-President gained extensive international experience of Marketing at Xicor. He previously held Tenure with Dialog: Four years in reward and benefits, global mobility, senior positions within Altera and National change management, talent planning, 10. John Teegen Semiconductor. Davin holds a BSEE from mergers and acquisition and global talent Senior Vice President, Worldwide Sales The University of Texas at Austin and an acquisition. Julie holds a Bachelor’s degree John joined Dialog in November 2017 with MBA from Kellogg School of Management in Mathematics and Psychology from Lamar the Dialog acquisition of Silego Technology, at Northwestern University. University in Beaumont, Texas and is an where he was CEO. He is responsible for Associate of the Society of Actuaries. Tenure with Dialog: Six years worldwide sales and previously he was VP Tenure with Dialog: Two years and GM of the Configurable Mixed-signal 5. Alex McCann Business Unit at Dialog. He has more than Senior Vice President Global Operations 8. Tom Sandoval 30 years of experience in the semiconductor Alex joined Dialog Semiconductor in Senior Vice President, Automotive industry and has held executive management May 2019 and has more than 25 years of Tom joined Dialog in September 2015 positions at Kovio, NeoPhotonics, MMC experience in Semiconductor Engineering holding initially the position of Senior Networks and VLSI Technology. John has and Operations. His most recent role prior Vice President worldwide Sales. He is a BS degree in Electrical Engineering from to joining Dialog was as VP of Operations now responsible for driving and growing the University of Florida. at Analog Devices, who in 2017 acquired the Automotive Business across Dialog. Linear Technology, where Alex had Tenure with Dialog: Two years He has over 25 years of experience in previously served as Chief Operating the semiconductor industry and has held 11. Mark Tyndall Officer. Alex started his career with National executive management positions in sales, Senior Vice President, Corporate Semiconductor, where he has held various marketing and engineering. Prior to joining Development & Strategy progressive Engineering and Operations Dialog, Tom served as Vice President Mark joined Dialog Semiconductor in positions. Alex then joined Anadigics Inc in of Sales for the Americas at Xilinx. September 2008. Prior to this, Mark was New Jersey, initially serving as the Director He previously served as CEO of Calypto Vice President of Business Development and of Wafer Fab Operations and then as the VP Design Systems. Tom holds a BS degree Corporate Relations at MIPS Technologies. of Global Operations. Following his tenure in Electrical Engineering from the University From 1999 to 2006, he held the position of at Anadigics, Alex was the VP of Operations of Southern California. Vice President of Business Development at Nano-Opto, a New Jersey based Optical Tenure with Dialog: Four years at Infineon and has also served as a board start up. Alex has an MBA with distinction director of a number of start-up companies, from the University of Glasgow and a BSc 9. Colin Sturt several of which were successfully in Electrical and Electronic Engineering. Senior Vice President, General Counsel acquired. Earlier in his career, Mark held Tenure with Dialog: Zero years Colin Sturt joined Dialog Semiconductor management positions in marketing at in October 2015 as Senior Vice President, Fujitsu Microelectronics and in design 6. Sean McGrath General Counsel. Prior to joining Dialog, at Philips Semiconductors. Senior Vice President and General Colin held the position of Vice President Manager, Connectivity & Audio Tenure with Dialog: 11 years of Corporate Development, General Business Group Counsel and Corporate Secretary at Micrel, Sean joined Dialog in November 2012. Incorporated. He was previously a corporate Sean has more than 15 years’ experience in RF semiconductor businesses, introducing innovative business models and leading Name Role Tenure with Tenure with Dialog (years) organisations to rapid growth. Prior to Dialog, Dr Jalal Bagherli Chief Executive Officer 14 he was General Manager of the Smart Home & Energy group at NXP and General Vivek Bhan Senior Vice President and General Manager, Custom Mixed Signal 6 Manager of the RF Power and Base Stations Business Group business at NXP/Philips Semiconductors. Wissam Jabre Chief Financial Officer, Senior Vice President, Finance 3 He previously held senior roles at Philips Davin Lee Senior Vice President and General Manager, Advanced Mixed Signal 6 Semiconductors and Mikron Austria GmbH, Business Group focusing on the RFID and connectivity markets. Sean holds an honours degree Alex McCann Senior Vice President Global Operations 0 in Geophysics and Geology from Harvard Sean McGrath Senior Vice President and General Manager, Connectivity, & Audio 7 University and an MBA with distinction Business Group from INSEAD. Julie Pope Senior Vice President, Human Resources 2 Tenure with Dialog: Seven years Tom Sandoval Senior Vice President, Automotive 4 Colin Sturt Senior Vice President, General Counsel 4 7. Julie Pope John Teegen* Senior Vice President, Worldwide Sales 2 Senior Vice President, Human Resources Julie joined Dialog in May 2017. An Mark Tyndall Senior Vice President, Corporate Development & Strategy and 11 experienced international HR executive, General Manager Emerging Products Business Group Julie began her career as a consultant at * Note: John Teegen became Senior Vice President, Worldwide Sales in March 2019. The Wyatt Company progressing to KPMG before joining IBM in 1998. With IBM, 83 Corporate governance Dialog Semiconductor Plc Directors’ report The Directors of Dialog To date, R&D projects have been in response Purchase of own shares by to key customers’ requests to assist in the Employee Benefit Trust Semiconductor Plc development of new custom ASICs, and The Company operates an Employee Benefit (‘‘Dialog’’ or the for the development of application-specific Trust, which purchases and transfers shares standard products (“ASSPs”). The Company in the Company for the benefit of employees “Company’’) present their does not expect any material change to this under the Company’s share option scheme, Annual report and audited approach in the foreseeable future. Long-Term Incentive Plan, Executive financial statements for the Greenhouse gases Incentive Plan and Employee Share Plan. Since the Company has de facto control of year ended 31 December Corporate responsibility and a commitment the assets and liabilities of the Trust, they are to sustainable business practices are 2019. These accounts have important to Dialog’s business model included in the Company and Group balance sheets. At 31 December 2019, the Trust held been prepared under IFRS and a component of Dialog’s strategy 804,712 shares, which represented 1.2% of and are available on the to deliver long-term profitable growth. Our commitment to environmentally oriented, the total called-up share capital, at a nominal Company’s website: sustainable business practices is evidenced value of £80,471. www.dialog-semiconductor.com in our commitment to continually reduce CO2 Share capital emissions and minimise the carbon footprint The Company’s issued share capital Principal activities and review of our business. Further details on the comprised a single class of shares referred of the business Company’s commitment to sustainable and to as ordinary shares. Dialog Semiconductor develops and environmentally friendly business practices distributes highly-integrated, mixed-signal Details of the share capital are set out in note are set out on pages 38 and 39. ICs, optimised for personal portable, 28 to the consolidated financial statements. Configurable Mixed-signal IC, low energy Going concern Substantial shareholdings short-range wireless, LED backlighting The Directors have formed a judgement Details of substantial shareholdings are on and solid state lighting, and automotive at the time of approving the financial page 89. applications. The Company provides statements that there is a reasonable customers with world-class innovation expectation that the Company has adequate Directors combined with flexible and dynamic support. resources to continue for the foreseeable The Directors, together with their future. The Company held US$1,025 million biographies, are listed on pages 80 and 81. The Company is listed on the Frankfurt (XTRA: of cash and cash equivalents at the end DLG) Stock Exchange (Regulated Market, Powers of Directors of 2019 (2018: US$678 million) and has a Prime Standard, ISIN GB0059822006) and is The Directors are authorised to issue the US$150 million Revolving Credit Facility, with a member of the German MDAX and TecDax nominal amount of securities representing a three-year period extended to July 2022, indices. The Company is incorporated in the the aggregate of approximately one third of which was undrawn at 31 December 2019. UK and the registered number is 03505161. the issued share capital of the Company; The Company expects to continue to deliver A full list of Company subsidiaries outside of that one third they can issue an amount revenue and profit growth in the period of the UK is detailed in Dialog’s related equal to 5% of the issued share capital on ahead. For these reasons, the Directors undertakings set out on page 197. a non-pre-emptive basis generally and a have adopted the going concern basis in further 5% on a non-pre-emptive basis in Further information on the principal preparing the financial statements. certain limited circumstances related to the activities of the business and the factors Dividends and share repurchases financing of a transaction. The Directors have affecting future developments are The Company has historically been additional power to issue up to a further third detailed in the Group’s Strategic report. committed to reinvesting all profits into of the issued share capital of the Company, Information on treasury policies and laying the framework for future growth. provided it is only applied on the basis of a objectives is included in note 34 to the Accordingly, since its initial public offering in rights issue. consolidated financial statements. 1999, Dialog has not paid any cash dividend. Directors’ remuneration and interests Future developments Directors do not recommend the payment Directors’ remuneration and interests The Company’s stated objective is to build a of a dividend for 2019 (2018: nil). At the 2020 are detailed in the Annual report on power-efficient connected world by becoming Annual General Meeting, in line with the remuneration on pages 100 to 106 of this the leading global supplier of highly-integrated shareholder approvals obtained in 2018 and report. No Director had a material interest mixed-signal technologies such as, power 2019, the Board will be asking shareholders during the year ended 31 December 2019 management, AC/DC, LED backlighting and for an authority to continue the share in any contract of significance with any solid state lighting, and low energy shortbuyback programme. Group company. range wireless connectivity. The key aspects In May 2019, we completed the share of the Group’s strategy are set out in the The agreement between the Company and buyback programme corresponding to Strategic report on pages 12 and 13. its Directors for compensation for loss of the 2018 Authorisation, for an amount of office is given in the Directors’ remuneration Subsequent events €100 million (US$111 million). In December policy report on pages 94 to 99 of this report. Details of subsequent events are on note 38 2019, we completed the first tranche of the to the consolidated financial statements. share buyback programme corresponding Directors’ third-party to the 2019 Authorisation for an amount indemnity provisions Research and development R&D of €125 million (US$141 million). It should The Company has granted an indemnity to The Company believes that its future be emphasised that, even if shareholder its Directors against proceedings brought competitive position will depend on its ability authority to continue the share buyback against them by third parties, by reason of to respond to the rapidly changing needs of programme is granted, no decision has their being Directors of the Company, to its customers by developing new designs yet been made to implement such a the extent permitted by the Companies Act in a timely and cost-effective manner. programme and implementation will only 2006. Such indemnity remains in force as at To this end, the Company’s management occur if the Board considers this in the best the date of approving the Directors’ report. is committed to investing in R&D of new interests of the Company depending on the products and customising existing products. prevailing circumstances. 84 Annual report and accounts 2019 Election and re-election of Directors Diversity and equal opportunity in share capital, can be found in note 28 to In accordance with the Company’s Articles In 2019, Dialog operated from 30 locations the consolidated financial statements. On a of Association, one third of the Directors have in 15 countries with a highly diverse show of hands at a general meeting of the to stand for re-election at the Annual General workforce, incorporating employees from Company every holder of shares present in Meeting. Any Director who has been on the 66 nationalities. person and entitled to vote shall have one Board for more than nine years is subject to vote, and on a poll every member present in Dialog takes equality and equal opportunity annual re-election. The next Annual General person or by proxy and entitled to vote shall Corporate governance for all employees very seriously. We believe Meeting will be held on 30 April 2020 at 9am have one vote for every ordinary share held. diversity among our employee base is an at Tower Bridge House, St Katharine’s Way, important attribute to a well-functioning The notice of the general meeting specifies London E1W 1AA. business. Diversity spans a range of factors deadlines for exercising voting rights either Corporate governance including diversity in terms of geographic by proxy notice or by presence in person The Company’s Corporate governance origin, background, gender, race, faith, or by proxy in relation to resolutions to be statement is set out on pages 86 to 91 of education, experience, viewpoint, interests, passed at a general meeting. All proxy votes this report. While the UK Code does not technical, and interpersonal skills. We also are counted and the numbers for, against apply to Dialog, in line with our commitment ensure that we offer equal opportunities in all or withheld in relation to each resolution are to maintaining high standards of corporate aspects of employment and advancement announced at the AGM and published on governance and oversight, the Board will regardless of age, disability, gender, marital the Company’s website after the meeting. follow the UK Code to the extent it considers status, nationality, race, religious or political There are no securities carrying special it beneficial to the good governance of beliefs or sexual orientation. rights, nor are there any restrictions on voting the Company. rights attached to the ordinary shares. Where existing employees become disabled, Principal risks and uncertainties it is the Group’s policy to provide continuing There are no restrictions on the transfer of The Company is exposed to a number of employment wherever practicable in the shares in the Company other than: risks and uncertainties that could affect same or alternative position and to provide –– Certain restrictions may from time to time the performance of the Company and its appropriate training to achieve this aim. be imposed by laws and regulations (for prospects. The Board of Directors and Gender diversity is of particular importance. example, insider trading laws); and the Audit Committee are responsible for Women comprise 19% of the overall –– Directors and senior management of the Company’s process of internal control workforce and further details are set the Company are not allowed to trade in and risk management and for reviewing out on pages 34 and 35 of this report. shares or exercise options in certain close its continuing effectiveness. The Board Although this is in line with the industry periods (such close periods normally start ensures, to the extent possible, that the average, the Company is supporting various two weeks before the end of each financial system of internal procedures and controls initiatives in the areas of STEM education to quarter and end 48 hours after the release is appropriate to the nature and scale of the encourage more women to pursue careers of the financial results). Company’s activities and that appropriate in engineering and electronic engineering. processes and controls are in place to The Company is not aware of any effectively manage and mitigate strategic, Disabled persons agreements between shareholders that operational, financial and other risks facing Our policy provides for disabled persons, may result in restrictions on the transfer of the Company. A list of the principal risks and whether registered or not, to be considered securities and for voting rights. their management is set out on pages 72 for employment, training and career Dialog has an Employee Benefit Trust to 77. development in accordance with their which holds Dialog shares for the benefit aptitudes and abilities. We offer equal Financial instruments of employees, including for the purpose of opportunities in all aspects of employment The Group’s financial risk management and satisfying awards made under the various and advancement regardless of policies, and exposure to risks, are set out employee and executive share plans. any disability. on page 76 of this report and on note 34 to The trustee may vote the shares as it sees the consolidated financial statements. Statement on disclosure of fit, and if there is an offer for the shares the information to auditors trustee is not obliged to accept or reject the Stakeholders engagement The Directors who were members of the offer but will have regard to the interests Details of stakeholders engagement are set Board at the time of approving the Directors’ of the employees and may otherwise take out on page 28. report are listed on pages 80 and 81 of this action with respect to the offer it thinks fair. Employee engagement report. Each of the Directors affirms that: The Company’s Articles of Association may In 2019, Nick Jeffery became the designated –– So far as they are aware, there is no only be amended by a special resolution at director of overseeing employee engagement relevant audit information of which the a general meeting of shareholders. This engagement, amongst other things, will Company’s auditors are unaware; and allow Directors to gauge how the Group’s Annual General Meeting –– They have taken all the steps that they new strategic initiatives are embedding The notice convening the Annual General ought to have taken as a Director in order within the organisation. Further details on the Meeting will be published separately to make themselves aware of any relevant Company’s engagement with its employees and posted on the Company’s website. audit information and to establish that can be found on page 28. The meeting will be held at Tower Bridge the Company’s auditors are aware of House, St Katharine’s Way, London, Employee policies that information. E1W 1AA on 30 April 2020 at 9am. It is our policy to support our people This confirmation is given and should be through training, career development and Approved by the Board of Directors and interpreted in accordance with the provisions opportunities for promotion. We operate signed on its behalf by of s418 of the Companies Act 2006. an open management approach and consult with our staff on matters that are Capital structure Dr Jalal Bagherli of concern to them. We share information As at 31 December 2019, the Company’s Director with employees on the performance of issued share capital comprised a single class the Company which, together with profitof shares referred to as ordinary shares. 4 March 2020 related bonuses and stock option awards, Details of the share capital, and changes encourage staff involvement. 85 Corporate governance Dialog Semiconductor Plc Corporate governance statement The Board of Dialog The Chairman, CEO and the Company of the Directors. The relevant skills and Secretary work together in planning a experience of each Director are set out under Semiconductor is forward programme of Board meetings and individual biographies, which are detailed on committed to maintaining meeting agendas. As part of this process the pages 80 and 81. Chairman ensures that the Board is supplied, high corporate in a timely manner, with information in a form In 2019, the Board undertook a search to governance standards replace Aidan Hughes and priority was given and of a quality to enable it to discharge its to female candidates to improve the gender to protect the interests duties. The Chairman encourages openness, diversity on the board. The Board was very debate and challenge at Board meetings. of all stakeholders. The Chairman holds a number of other pleased to appoint Joanne Curin. While the UK Code does not apply to Dialog, directorships and the Board considers that Subject to approval at the Annual General the Company has always had regard for UK these do not interfere with the discharge of Meeting by shareholders, Directors are corporate governance best practice. In line his duties to the Company. The Chairman is appointed for a term of three years. with our commitment to maintaining high available to meet shareholders on request. Any Director who has been on the Board standards of corporate governance and for more than nine years is subject to oversight, the Board will follow the UK Code Board composition annual re-election. The standard terms of to the extent it considers it beneficial to the The Board currently comprises eight the letter of appointment of non-executive good governance of the Company. Directors who are listed below. Directors are available, on request, at the Annual General Meeting of shareholders. The Board of Directors comprises a mix Directors seeking re-election are subject to a Board of Directors – role and of the skills, knowledge and experience responsibilities performance appraisal, which is overseen by required to provide leadership, control and the Nomination Committee. In accordance The Board has overall responsibility for the oversight of the management of Dialog leadership, control and oversight of the with its Articles of Association a third of and to contribute to the development and Directors stand for re-election at each Company. The day-to-day responsibility implementation of the Company’s strategy. for the management of the Company Annual General Meeting. In particular, the Board combines a group has been delegated by the Board to the of Directors with diverse backgrounds Chief Executive Officer (“CEO”), who Board size within the technology sector, in both public is accountable to the Board. The CEO At the end of 2019, the Board comprised and private companies, which combine executes this authority through an executive eight Directors. A maximum of ten Directors to provide the Board with a rich resource management team outlined on pages 82 is allowable under Dialog’s Articles of and expertise to drive the continuing and 83 of this report. In addition, a number Association. The eight members of the development of Dialog and advance of responsibilities of the Board are delegated Dialog Board include the Chairman, one the Company’s commercial objectives. to sub-committees of the Board; details of Executive Director and six independent, The Board also combines a number of which are set out below. non-executive Directors. The Nomination longer serving Directors with Directors Committee has reviewed the size and who have joined the Board more recently. Matters reserved for the Board performance of the Board during the year. This combination provides the Board with While the Board has delegated day-to-day The Committee considered that the Board a fresh perspective while ensuring there is responsibility for the management of the functions effectively; comprises the skills, continuity and experience from Directors Company to the CEO, certain matters are knowledge and experience required by who have served during a period of rapid formally reserved for the Board. The Board Dialog; is not so large as to be unwieldy; and growth and development for the business. has overall responsibility for: Company meets corporate governance best-practice In addition, the geographic background of objectives, strategy, annual budgets, guidelines on independence. the Board is diverse and includes Directors risk management, acquisitions or major who have international work experience. capital projects, remuneration policy, and Board independence Director biographies are set out on pages 80 Corporate Governance. It defines the roles Corporate governance best practice states and 81. and responsibilities of the Chairman, CEO, that at least half the Board, excluding the other Directors and the Board Committees. Chairman, should comprise non-executive Board refreshment and renewal In addition, the Board approves the Directors determined by the Board to The Board is committed to a policy of quarterly financial statements and reviews be independent. ongoing Board refreshment and renewal. the Company’s systems of internal control. The Nomination Committee continually The Board has determined that Alan It approves all resolutions and related reviews the composition and diversity, Campbell, Mike Cannon, Mary Chan, documentation put before shareholders including gender diversity, of the Board Joanne Curin, Eamonn O’Hare, and Nick at general meetings. and the skills and experience of each Jeffery are independent. The Chairman, Rich Beyer, was independent on his Chairman Mr Rich Beyer is Chairman of the Board. Concurrent Rich was appointed to the Board in February Director Status Independent/non-independent Tenure (years) tenure* (years) 2013 and as Chairman in July 2013. Rich Beyer Current (Chairman) 6 6 Upon appointment, he was determined by Dr Jalal Bagherli Current Non-independent (Executive) 14 N/A the Board to be independent. The Chairman Alan Campbell Current Independent 4 4 is responsible for the effective working of the Board and oversight of management Mike Cannon Current Independent 6 6 while the CEO, together with the executive Mary Chan Current Independent 3 3 management team, is responsible for Joanne Curin Current Independent 0 0 the day-to-day running of the Company. Nick Jeffery Current Independent 3 3 The functions of Chairman and CEO are not Eamonn O’Hare Current Independent 5 5 combined and the responsibilities of both roles are clearly divided. * Note: Concurrent tenure means tenure on the Board concurrently with the Company’s CEO. 86 Annual report and accounts 2019 appointment to the Board. The Company’s performance of the Chairman may be Nomination Committee Chief Executive Officer, Dr Jalal Bagherli, is addressed to and will be managed by the Mary Chan the only Executive Director on the Board. Chair of the Nomination Committee. Excluding the Chairman, the Board currently 100% independent (3 of 3) comprises six independent non-executive Board Committees and one Executive Director and is, therefore, The Board has established a number of Remuneration Committee compliant with provision 11 of the UK Code Corporate governance Committees to assist in the execution of its Mike Cannon (Chair) that at least half the Board, excluding the responsibilities. During 2019, these were: Nick Jeffery Chairman, should comprise Directors Audit Committee, Nomination Committee Mary Chan determined by the Board to be independent. and Remuneration Committee. Ad hoc committees are formed from time to time 100% independent (3 of 3) At the time of the appointment of Alan to deal with specific matters. Campbell, the Board considered the prior Alan Campbell, Chairman of the Audit working relationship between Rich Beyer and The composition of the Board Committees, Committee, Nick Jeffery, Chairman of the Alan Campbell who both served at Freescale. as at 4 March 2020, is set out below. Nomination Committee and Mike Cannon, Rich Beyer joined Freescale in March 2008 Attendance at meetings held in 2019 is set Chairman of the Remuneration Committee, and held the position of Chairman and CEO out in the table on page 88. are also available to shareholders should through to June 2012. During this period, they have specific concerns or issues Each of the permanent Board Committees Alan Campbell held the position of Chief relevant to their respective committees. has terms of reference under which Financial Officer of Freescale reporting authority is delegated to them by the Board. to Rich. The Board noted the three-year Company Secretary These terms of reference are available on cooling off period between this prior working All Directors have access to the advice and the Company’s website. The Chairman relationship and Alan’s appointment to the services of the Company Secretary, who of each Committee attends the Annual Dialog Board. Having carefully considered all is responsible to the Board for ensuring General Meeting and is available to answer the factors, the Board concluded that Alan that Board procedures are complied with. shareholder questions. The reports of each Campbell is wholly independent. The Company Secretary seeks to ensure of the Board Committees are set out on pages 89 to 91. that the Board members receive appropriate Senior Independent Director induction and ongoing training and Having carefully considered the position and development to enable them to discharge Committee members role of the SID, and the fact that Rich Beyer their duties. The Company Secretary is also is a Chairman who was wholly independent Audit Committee responsible for advising the Board on all on appointment, the Board does not believe Alan Campbell (Chair) Corporate Governance matters. there is a necessity to appoint a SID at this Joanne Curin The appointment and removal of the time. Comparable to the role of a SID at Eamonn O’Hare Company Secretary is a matter for the Board. other companies, Rich Beyer is available to 100% independent (3 of 3) shareholders who have concerns for which Tim Anderson of Reynolds Porter contact through the normal channel of CEO Chamberlain LLP is the Company Secretary has failed to resolve or is inappropriate. Nomination Committee and has served in this role for over 18 years. Furthermore, any concerns regarding the Nick Jeffery (Chair) Mike Cannon In October 2019, our Board visited the design centre in Germering, Germany. In October 2019, our Board had the opportunity to visit the design centre in Germering, Germany. During the visit, the Board had an open and lively discussion on topics such as, Dialog’s long-term strategy, product diversification, and our commitment to environmental issues. In 2019, Nick Jeffery, Chairman of our Nomination Committee, was appointed to oversee employee engagement in collaboration with our global HR teams. 87 Corporate governance Dialog Semiconductor Plc Corporate governance statement continued Board meetings Director Board Audit Remuneration Nomination The Board holds at least four Board Number of meetings in 2019 5 4 4 4 meetings each year. The Board may meet more frequently as required. In addition, Meetings attended there are ad hoc Board calls through the Richard Beyer 5 year and when necessary. The number of Dr Jalal Bagherli 5 meetings of Board sub-committees each Alan Campbell 5 4 year varies by Committee. There were five Michael Cannon 5 4 4 Board meetings in 2019. The attendance at Board and Committee meetings by the Mary Chan 5 4 4 Directors who held office in 2019 is set out Joanne Curin* 2 above. The Board places considerable Aidan Hughes** 2 2 importance on attendance at both scheduled Nick Jeffery 5 4 4 Board and Committee meetings. During the Eamonn O’Hare 5 4 year, no Director attended less than 75% of scheduled Board or Board Committee * Joanne Curin joined the Board on 1 August 2019. meetings to which they were entitled to ** Aidan Hughes stepped down at the May 2019 AGM. attend. At scheduled Board meetings, Performance evaluation Directors’ fees the Board also meets without the Executive The Board recognises the importance of In 2019 the Remuneration Committee reviewed Director present. continuing evaluation of the performance of NED fees against Dialog’s closest comparators. In addition, the non-executive Directors meet the Board and its Committees and a review As a result, it was decided to increase fees annually to review the performance of the of the operation and performance of the to the market lower quartile (see page 92). Chairman. This is an annual process and Board and its Committees is undertaken The annual fee for non-executive Directors, occurred in February 2019. annually. Such a review is normally was £178,000. The annual fee for the conducted internally. However, in line with Chairman was £235,000. The Chair of the The 2020 review will be held during the best practice, every three years there is an Audit Committee, the Nomination Committee course of the calendar year. externally facilitated review. and the Remuneration Committee received an additional fee of £20,000, £6,000 and Director induction and In 2017, consistent with this best practice, £16,000 respectively for their role on continuing development the Board engaged an independent that Committee. Following appointment to the Board, third party to conduct an evaluation. new Directors are provided with induction The evaluation in 2017 was conducted by The other Committee members receive materials and are briefed on the Company, Equity Communications Ltd, a company an additional fee for serving on those its structure, strategy, technologies, which has no other connection with Dialog. Committees as set out on page 105. operations, corporate governance practice, Details of the activities of these Committees The findings of the evaluation were presented and their duties and responsibilities as a during 2019 are set out on pages 89 to 91. to the Board in February 2018. The Board Director. The induction is usually conducted will consider a further third-party Board Directors’ fees were paid in cash and shares. at a Dialog office, with a full day of meetings evaluation process in 2020. Non-executive Directors are not eligible to with Executives and employees. participate in the Company’s bonus or share In 2019, an internally conducted review Briefings for all non-executive Directors award schemes. was undertaken, the results of which were are held with the executive management presented to the Board in February 2020. None of the remuneration of the nonat Board meetings. Throughout the year, executive Directors is performance related. Directors are also provided with detailed External non-executive directorships Non-executive Directors’ fees are not briefing materials on the performance The Board believes that a broadening of pensionable and non-executive Directors of the Company and market analysis on the skills, knowledge and experience of are not eligible to join any Company the performance of, and prospects for, non-executive Directors is of benefit to the pension plans. Non-executive Directors the business. Company. As such, the Company welcomes are reimbursed for their reasonable travel the participation of the non-executives on and accommodation expenses incurred in Director training and development connection with attending meetings of the the Boards of other companies. To avoid The Board is committed to a programme Board or related committees. potential conflicts of interest, and to of periodic training and development of its ensure non-executive Directors continue The compensation of the Executive Director Directors. As part of this process, at least to have sufficient time to discharge their comprises a base salary and variable one Board meeting is held at the location responsibilities, non-executive Directors components. Variable compensation of one of the Company’s international inform the Chairman of the Nomination includes an annual bonus linked to, and offices each year. At the April 2019 Board Committee before taking up any external dependent on, certain business targets as meeting, Scott Petty, Chief Technology appointments. Details of the non-executive well as long-term incentives. The Executive Officer UK, Vodafone, delivered a session positions of each Director are set out under Director’s remuneration is inclusive of any on 5G and narrowband IoT. In addition, the individual biographies, which are detailed on Director’s fee. Further details are set out in October 2019 Board meeting was held in pages 80 and 81. the Directors’ remuneration report which Germering, Munich. As part of the meeting the Board received a presentation from local The Board has not established a hard begins on page 92. management and had the opportunity to visit guideline on the number of other executive our design centre. or non-executive positions that a Director should hold but recognises the guidelines set out by a number of proxy advisers and other influential governance bodies. 88 Annual report and accounts 2019 Share ownership and dealing Dialog promptly discloses price Dialog’s free-float at 31 December 2019 was Details of Directors’ shareholdings are set sensitive information to all market 68,500,680 or 98.8% of the outstanding out on pages 102 and 103. The Company participants. Notifications are first shares. The free-float is calculated by has a policy on dealing in shares that applies sent to the Frankfurt Stock Exchange excluding the 804,712 shares held in the to all Directors and senior management. and the Federal Financial Supervisory Dialog Semiconductor Plc Employee Under this policy, Directors are required to Authority in Germany (Bundesanstalt für Benefit Trust. obtain clearance from the Chief Executive Finanzdienstleistungsaufsicht – BaFin) Corporate governance Officer (or in the case of the Chief Executive and then published via an electronic Internal control and risk management Officer himself, from the Chairman) information system. In accordance with the EU Transparency before dealing. Directive (DTR 7.2.5), the Board of Directors Significant shareholders (following review and recommendation by Directors and senior management are The provisions of the UK Disclosure Rules the Audit Committee) acknowledge that they prohibited from dealing in the Company’s and Transparency Rules (“DTR”) require are responsible for the Company’s process shares during designated close periods and that any person or fund acquiring a direct or of internal control and risk management. at any other time when the individual is in indirect interest of 3% or more of a class of Such processes are designed to manage possession of Inside Information as defined shares issued by the Company – with voting rather than eliminate the risk of failure by Article 7 of Regulation (EU) No. 596/2014 rights at the Company’s general meeting and can only provide reasonable and of the European Parliament and the Council – must inform the Company of its interest not absolute assurance against material of 16 April 2014 (“MAR”). Transactions in within two working days. If the 3% interest is misstatement or loss. securities of the Company’s own shares exceeded, the shareholder must inform the carried out by members of the Board of The Board ensures, to the extent possible, Company of any increase or decrease of one Directors and of their family members will that the system of internal procedures and percentage point in its interest. be reported within three business days and controls is appropriate to the nature and published without delay, if the total value of In accordance with DTR 5.1.5 with respect scale of the Company’s activities and that such transactions in any one year exceeds to voting rights attached to shares held by appropriate processes and controls are in €5,000, pursuant to and in accordance with investment managers (on behalf of clients), place to effectively manage and mitigate Article 19 of MAR. by scheme operators and ICVCs, the first strategic, operational, financial and other threshold for disclosure is set at 5%, with the risks facing the Company. Loans to Directors or senior executives next level set at 10% and every percentage A detailed list of risks and their management The Company will not provide or guarantee above 10%. is set out on pages 72 to 77. any loans to Directors or senior executives. Once Dialog is notified, the Company The Company has an ongoing process of must then notify BaFin and the Frankfurt Relations with shareholders identifying, evaluating and managing risk. Stock Exchange. The Company is committed to ongoing and The process was in place during 2019 and active communication with its shareholders. Dialog’s shares are listed with Clearstream up to the date of the approval of the 2019 Dialog has a Head of Investor Relations Germany as legal owner. As far as the Annual report and financial statements. who manages communication between the Company is aware, based on TR-1 The Board and Audit Committee can Company, its shareholders and the broader notifications received, those holding a confirm that necessary actions are being financial community. The Company also significant beneficial interest (i.e. greater than undertaken to remedy any perceived failings retains independent advisers in the UK and 3%) in the Company as of 31 December or weakness identified from these ongoing Germany to help manage communication 2019 were: process reviews. with both English and German speaking 4.02% – Norges Bank shareholders. Dialog prepares annual and Audit Committee quarterly consolidated financial statements in The free-float includes the following shares The Board of Directors has established accordance with IFRS as adopted by the EU, held on behalf of discretionary clients as per an Audit Committee and has delegated and IFRS issued by the IASB. the share register on 31 December 2019: authority to the Committee to consider and report to the Board on the Company’s The Company maintains an investor relations The Bank of New York Mellon 10,507,400 financial reporting, internal control and risk section on its website: dialog-semiconductor. Citigroup Global Markets 7,245,593 management procedures, and the work of com/investor-relations. This contains State Street Bank & Trust Corp. 4,252,280 the internal and external auditors. copies of investor presentations and annual reports as well as providing other financial SIX SIS AG Legitimationsaktionar 3,126,367 During 2019, the Audit Committee statements and corporate press releases. Chase Nominees LTD 2,992,940 comprised only independent non-executive Directors. Members at the end of 2019 were There is regular discussion between As of 20 February 2020, the Company was Alan Campbell (Chairman), Joanne Curin and Company management and analysts, aware of the following holdings: Eamonn O’Hare. brokers and institutional shareholders, ensuring that the market is appropriately The Bank of New York Mellon 10,709,625 informed on business activities. Citigroup Global Markets 7,510,477 In 2019, our Chairman met with shareholders State Street Bank & Trust Corp. 4,270,646 in London and Frankfurt. Chase Nominees LTD 3,160,018 BNP Paribas Securities Services 2,508,597 89 Corporate governance Dialog Semiconductor Plc Corporate governance statement continued Dialog’s Audit Committee has recent and –– Reviewed the Annual report and The Company believes that an effective and relevant financial experience. In line with accounts – including the report of the robust system of internal control is essential best practice, the Board has affirmed that external auditor – for the year ended to achieving reliable business performance. members of the Audit Committee also have 31 December 2019; The system of internal control is supported significant expertise in Dialog’s business –– Reviewed the interim reports issued in by a strong commitment by the Management sector. Alan Campbell, Chairman of the Audit May, July and October 2019; Team, ongoing monitoring by the Audit Committee, has long standing experience –– Reviewed and approved the external Committee and a dedicated internal control as a CFO in the semiconductor industry. auditor’s audit plan for 2019, including function. There continues to be ongoing Joanne Curin has experience as Finance the auditor’s proposed fee and statement focus on the internal control over financial Director at a number of public and private of independence; reporting using the COSO framework to companies. Eamonn O’Hare also has two –– Reviewed the appointment of new design relevant and sustainable internal decades’ experience as CFO at some of Audit partners in UK and Germany and controls and test the operating effectiveness the rapid growth consumer and technology considerations for Auditor independence; of internal controls. businesses. Biographies are set out on –– Reviewed non-audit fees paid to the The Committee is pleased with the progress pages 80 and 81. external auditor in the year, which totalled achieved in 2019 and will continue to monitor US$225,000 and related to the financial The Audit Committee meets a minimum of the ongoing work in these areas in 2020. due diligence procedures for acquisition four times a year. In 2019, the Committee of FCI; met four times. Attendance at meetings Role of the external auditor –– Received and discussed with the external held is set out in the table on page 88. Deloitte were appointed auditors in 2015 auditor reports setting out the auditor’s The Committee also meets privately with the and their appointment was subsequently findings from each quarterly review and internal and external auditors and separately confirmed at the 2016 Annual General the full year audit; with the executive management. Meeting. The Company, through the Audit –– Assessed the effectiveness of the Committee, has a policy of annual review The internal audit function is appropriately external audit through a combination of of the external auditors. In compliance with resourced with the required skills and (a) quarterly private sessions to review European Union audit legislation, the audit experience, and is supported by specialist interactions with management and the engagement partner is rotated every five resources where required. The Director of auditors understanding of the Company’s years and the audit is put out to tender at Internal Audit is accountable to the Audit business risks and the consequential least every ten years. Committee and meets independently with impact on the financial statements and the Committee Chairman regularly during the (b) reviewing how the external auditors Prior to the Audit Committee proposing year. The Committee approves the internal addressed the findings from the firm-wide the appointment or reappointment of the audit plan and receives a report on internal audit quality inspection report published external auditor, the proposed auditor audit activity at each meeting, and monitors by the FRC in the context of the Dialog provides details of any professional, financial the status of findings or improvement actions. audit. The Committee is satisfied that the and other relationship which may exist external audit was effective; between the auditor and the Company that The Audit Committee’s main responsibilities –– Considered the appropriateness and could call its independence into question. include to: disclosure of accounting policies, key This includes the extent to which other –– Review and advise the Board on the judgements and estimates with a focus (non-audit) services were performed for integrity of the Company’s annual on the key audit matters: the carrying the Company in the past year or which are and quarterly financial statements, amount of goodwill, including the review contracted for the following year. the Annual report, and other formal of purchase price allocations for FCI The external auditor has committed announcements relating to the Company’s and Creative Chips acquisitions; and to informing the Chairman of the Audit financial performance; revenue recognition, the identification and Committee of any grounds for disqualification –– Review and advise the Board on measurement of performance obligations or impartiality of the auditor occurring the effectiveness of the Company’s within the licensing and asset transfer during the audit, unless such grounds internal controls; agreement with Apple; are eliminated. –– Make recommendations on the –– Monitored the progress of management’s appointment and remuneration of external implementation project of IFRS 16 Leases; The external auditor has committed to auditors and to monitor their performance –– Reviewed the risk register for updates to report to the Audit Committee, without and independence; and key risks and status; delay, on all facts and events of importance –– Approve and monitor the policy for non–– Approved the annual internal audit plan, that should be brought to the attention audit services provided by the external received and reviewed internal audit of the Board of Directors, which come auditors to ensure that the independence reports, including a report on the audit to light during the performance of the and objectivity of the auditors is of the implementation of IFRS 16 and the audit, including the Company’s financial not compromised. annual assessment and review of internal performance. The external auditor takes controls, and monitored the effective part in Audit Committee meetings on the In order to fulfil its duties, the Committee and timely remediation of any control annual consolidated financial statements and receives sufficient, reliable and weaknesses; and reports on the essential results of its audit. timely information from the Dialog –– Reviewed and updated the Committee’s Management Team. terms of reference. The full terms of reference of the Committee are available on our website under the Corporate Governance section of the Investor Relations section. Activity in 2019 During the period since the last Annual report to the date of this report, the Audit Committee has: 90 Annual report and accounts 2019 External auditor and non-audit work During the year, the Committee used The full terms of reference of the Committee The Company has a policy in place the services of an external search and are available on our website under the governing the conduct of non-audit work recruitment agency to assist with the Corporate governance section of the Investor by the external auditor. Under this policy non-executive recruitment. The firm, Egon Relations section. the auditor is prohibited from performing Zehnder, is an independent third party and A detailed report on the work of the services where the auditor: has no other connection with Dialog. Remuneration Committee during 2019, Corporate governance –– May be required to audit his/her own work; During the year, the Committee met formally is set out on page 106. –– Would participate in activities that would on four occasions. Attendance at scheduled normally be undertaken by management; meetings is set out on page 88. Tim Anderson –– Is remunerated through a “success fee” Company Secretary structure; and Activity in 2019 –– Acts in an advocacy role for the Company. The key activities of the Nomination Committee during the year were to: Other than the above, the Company does not impose an automatic ban on the –– Review the composition and diversity of external auditor undertaking non-audit work. the Board to ensure the Directors have The external auditor is permitted to provide the skills, expertise and experience to non-audit services that are not, or are not effectively oversee the implementation perceived to be, in conflict with auditor of the Group’s stated strategy; independence, provided it has the skill, –– Appointment of Joanne Curin as a new competence and integrity to carry out the Board member effective 1 August 2019; work and that such work does not conflict –– Review succession arrangements for all with EU regulations. Deloitte were chosen key executive positions; and to provide the financial due diligence for –– Recommend a Board and Executive Team reasons of efficiency as they were also the diversity strategy for Board approval. auditors of the acquired FCI business. Details of the amounts paid to the external Remuneration Committee auditor during the year for audit and The Board of Directors has established a other services are set out in note 8 to the Remuneration Committee to review and consolidated financial statements. In line make recommendations to the Board with EU regulations, the Audit Committee will in respect of the salaries and incentive ensure that, for the year ended 31 December compensation of the officers of the 2021, non-audit fees paid to the Company’s Company and its subsidiaries, and provide auditor will be capped at a maximum of recommendations to the Management 70% of the average audit fees paid in the Team for other employees and consultants preceding three financial years. as appropriate. At the end of 2019, the Remuneration Nomination Committee Committee comprised Mike Cannon (Chair), The Board of Directors has established a Nick Jeffery and Mary Chan. The Committee Nomination Committee to review Board comprised only independent non-executive structure, size and composition and make Directors. By invitation, other members recommendations to the Board, and to of the Board may attend the Committee’s identify and nominate Board candidates meetings. The CEO and the Senior Vice for approval by the Board. The Committee President, Human Resources, may also is responsible for succession planning for attend by invitation but take no part in Directors, including the development of a discussions or decisions on matters relating diverse pipeline of candidates, and ensuring to their own remuneration. The Committee there are appropriate succession plans in is free to seek its own advice free from place for all key executive positions within management as it deems appropriate. the Company to minimise “key-man” risk. During the year, the Committee sought The full terms of reference of the Committee and received general advice relating to are available on our website under the remuneration from independent adviser Aon Corporate Governance section of the Plc. Aon is a signatory to the Remuneration Investor Relations section. Consultants Group Code of Conduct and any advice was provided in accordance with At the end of 2019, the Nomination this code. Aon provided no other services Committee comprised Nick Jeffery to Dialog during 2019 and has no other (Chair), Mary Chan and Mike Cannon. connection with the Company other than as The Committee comprises only independent adviser on issues relating to remuneration. non-executive Directors. By invitation, other members of the Board may attend the In 2019, the Committee met formally on Committee’s meetings. The Committee four occasions. Attendance at scheduled is free to seek its own advice free from meetings is set out on page 88. management as it deems appropriate. 91 Corporate governance Dialog Semiconductor Plc Directors’ remuneration report Annual statement from Mike Cannon, and underlying gross margin have improved Ensuring that pay arrangements are equitable Chairman of the Remuneration over 2018 levels, and cash generation and motivational across the organisation has Committee has been strong. In addition, Dialog has always been a cornerstone of Dialog’s gained a strong foothold in the growing approach to remuneration, and the Committee Dear shareholder, industrial IoT market through the acquisition will continue to consider wider employee I am pleased to present of Creative Chips. This has broadened Dialog’s customer base and opened up remuneration as part of its annual agenda. the Directors’ remuneration new opportunities to create long-term and Non-executive Director fees Non-executive fees were last increased at the report for 2019, which has sustainable value for shareholders. As a 2016 AGM when they were brought closer to committee, we were satisfied that this strong been prepared by the financial and operational performance has market median and were restructured so that fees were delivered mostly in shares vesting Remuneration Committee been reﬂected in our share price which immediately without performance conditions. and approved by the Board. increased by +100% over 2019, and has also been reflected in the annual bonus and As part of this restructuring, the cash portion This report is in two parts: the Directors’ of fees was reduced. LTIP outcomes for 2019. Further detail on remuneration policy, which describes the the annual bonus and LTIP outcomes and In 2019 the Committee reviewed NED fees policy for the remuneration of Executive and targets is provided on pages 100 and 101. against Dialog’s closest comparators. Since no non-executive Directors, and the Annual increase has been applied since 2016, NED Report on remuneration which sets out the Base salary fees were found to have fallen behind market details of and basis for remuneration during As in prior years, the Committee conducted median and even behind lower quartile. As a 2019. At the 2020 AGM, a resolution to its normal annual review of the CEO’s base result, it was decided to increase fees to the approve the Annual Report on remuneration salary in the first half of 2019. The review market lower quartile. For the NED base will be submitted. The Directors’ considered the CEO’s and Dialog’s fee, this represents an annualised increase remuneration policy will not be submitted performance over the prior year, the range of circa 5% per annum, which is in line with for shareholder approval as it was approved of salary increases for other employees and, increase for UK employees over this period. at the 2019 AGM and will expire at the as a final reference point, the positioning Further information is set out later in this report. 2022 AGM. of the CEO’s base salary and total remuneration compared to Dialog’s peer Shareholder consultation regarding Our remuneration philosophy group. Following the review, the Committee the outcome of the 2019 AGM Dialog’s peers, with which the Company decided to increase the CEO’s base salary At Dialog’s AGM on 2 May 2019, a resolution competes both for business and for talent, by 6%, which is equivalent to an annualised to approve a new Directors’ remuneration are predominantly US-listed companies increase of 3% per annum since the last time policy was submitted to shareholders. operating US-style executive compensation an increase was made in 2017. This increase In developing this policy, the Remuneration models. As a result, remuneration in recognised the CEO’s and Dialog’s strong Committee undertook an extensive Dialog’s sector is heavily influenced by US performance, and was in line with the consultation with a majority of shareholders, practice, and this is reflected in certain increases for high performing employees. resulting in the inclusion of enhanced aspects of Dialog’s remuneration policy. His base salary remains positioned around disclosure of performance targets and the The remuneration policy has been designed the lower quartile of the peer group with his inclusion of a post-vesting holding period for so that the majority of remuneration is total remuneration below the lower quartile. long-term incentives. Although the policy was delivered through performance-based, approved by shareholders at the 2019 AGM, long-term variable pay with a clear emphasis Annual Bonus 31% of shareholders voted against it. In line on equity. Variable remuneration is delivered As a result of the strong performance in with the new UK Code, shareholders were through an annual bonus and long-term 2019, an annual bonus award of 181.0% consulted in 2019 on the new remuneration incentive, and performance measures of target has been achieved by the CEO, policy so that the Committee could better are chosen to incentivise and reward the compared with 115.3% for 2018. understand the reasons behind this voting successful achievement of our strategic outcome. The Committee is grateful to those objectives in alignment with the interests of Bonus performance outcomes are detailed shareholders who took the time to engage our shareholders. in the Annual report on remuneration on with us. pages 100 and 101. Nonetheless, unlike our US peers, we If you have any feedback on our remuneration have also implemented a range of UK and Long-term incentive arrangements, please pass those comments European best practices. The Committee is The 2017 award made under the Long-Term for my attention to our Company Secretary, firmly of the belief that the current approach Incentive Plan (“LTIP”) will vest in the first Tim Anderson at RPC, Tower Bridge House, to remunerating Executive Directors, quarter of 2020. The LTIP is subject to a St Katharine’s Way, London E1W 1AA. which balances structural best practices performance test over the period 2017-19 We hope you find the contents of this report with a focus on variable and equity-based and 84.7% of the target number of shares informative. The Committee would welcome remuneration, has been central to driving are expected to vest (42.4% of the max your support at our AGM on 30 April 2020 for performance and producing alignment number of shares). our advisory shareholder vote on the Annual between the interests of management report on remuneration. and shareholders. Remuneration reforms Finally, I would like to thank my fellow While the new UK Code does not apply to Committee members as well as the internal Performance and remuneration for 2019 Dialog, we have endeavoured to comply and external teams who supported us with Management’s strategic focus on highwith its provisions to the extent we consider their contributions over the past year. growth segments of its target markets it beneficial to the good governance of and operational excellence has delivered the Company. strong performance over 2019. Total group Mike Cannon underlying revenue was down 2% from 2018, Chairman, Remuneration Committee however both underlying operating margin 4 March 2020 Dialog Semiconductor Plc 92 Annual report and accounts 2019 Remuneration at a glance Summary of Component Features How we implemented our current Base Salary –– Salary and benefits to facilitate –– 6% increase (0% increase in 2018). remuneration recruitment and retention. –– Chief Executive Officer: £515,040. policy and –– Fixed pay is restrained to emphasise –– 15% pension allowance. structure for performance-based remuneration Financial Year and further align the interests of the Corporate governance 2019 CEO and shareholders. Annual Bonus – weightings: –– Target potential 125% of base salary. –– 181.0% of target bonus paid. 15% Revenue –– Key financial, commercial and –– CEO: £1,165,278. 10% Underlying gross margin organisational goals. 15% Underlying operating margin –– The portion of any award above 100% 20% Diversification of salary is deferred into shares for three years. 40% C ommercial and Organisational goals LTIP – weightings: –– Target award is capped at £3 million. –– Awards granted to the CEO 33.3% Revenue –– 2x multiplier for excellent performance. in 2019 had a target value of £3 million at grant. 33.3% Underlying operating –– Goals focused on KPIs and long-term margin shareholder returns. 33.3% Relative Total –– 2-year post-vesting holding period for Shareholder Return awards granted after the 2019 AGM. Shareholding Requirements –– CEO 400% of salary. –– CEO exceeds requirement. How we measure The table below links Dialog’s current performance measures to our strategy. performance and The bonus metrics are reviewed annually and set appropriately for the strategy for the year. link to strategy 2019 Annual Measure Bonus LTIP Rationale and link to strategy Revenue Measures top-line business growth Underlying operating margin Measures profitability of our operating activity Underlying gross margin Provides a measure of ability to obtain profit margin from our products and manage our manufacturing costs Relative Total Shareholder Return Measures the delivery of long-term sustainable value (“TSR”) growth for shareholders Commercial and organisational goals Focuses executives on the delivery of our strategic goals How we performed Revenue (US$m) Underlying revenue (US$m) Underlying operating Operating margin, margin (%)(%) underlying Underlying Gross gross margin, margin (%) underlying (%) 1,566 US$1,420m 22.8% 22.8% 49.8% 49.8% 2019 1,420 2019 22.8 2019 49.8 2018 1,442 2018 19.5 2018 48.3 2017 1,353 2017 19.2 2017 47.9 2019 The chart below shows the 2019 potential opportunity and actual achievement compared to 2018 actual achievement. Remuneration 2019 potential 2019 actual 2018 actual 0 1,000 2,000 3,000 4,000 5,000 6,000 7,000 £’000 Minimum Target Maximum Base salary Benefits Pension Annual bonus LTIP without share price movement Effect of share price movement on LTIP Maximum Fixed pay, maximum annual bonus (250% of salary for 2019 and 200% of salary for 2018) and maximum value of the LTIP vesting. Target Fixed pay and on-target award for Annual Bonus (125% of salary for 2019 and 100% of salary for 2018) and 1x target value of the LTIP vesting. Minimum Fixed pay (base salary, benefits and pension). The split of the LTIP bar shows the value lost or gained due to the effect of the share price. The arrow on the “2018 actual” and “2019 actual” LTIP outcome shows the value loss of the vested shares due to the decrease in share price since grant. 93 Corporate governance Dialog Semiconductor Plc Directors’ remuneration policy Our policy on remuneration Dialog’s remuneration policy for Executive Directors is set by the Remuneration Committee. The Committee’s primary objective is to ensure that remuneration is structured so as to attract and retain Executive Directors of a high calibre, with the skills and experience necessary to develop and grow the Company successfully. Executives should be rewarded in a way that aligns with shareholder interests and promotes the creation of sustained value for the Company’s shareholders. The Committee believes that a simple approach is most effective. Dialog’s elements of executive remuneration are fixed pay (base salary, benefits and pensions), annual bonus and a long-term incentive. A significant portion of remuneration is linked to, and paid in, Company shares, which enables alignment with shareholder interests and reinforces our pay-for-performance philosophy. The Committee believes that Executive Directors should hold a meaningful number of shares personally. The individual remuneration elements operated for Executive Directors are described in more detail in the policy table below. Since there is currently only one Executive Director – the CEO – we refer to remuneration for the Executive Director, Executive Directors and the CEO interchangeably throughout this report. The Committee reviews the CEO’s remuneration package annually both in the context of Company performance and against a range of peer companies. In reviewing the CEO’s pay arrangements the Committee takes into account: –– The history and growth profile of the Company; –– The Company’s UK incorporation and associated corporate governance expectations; –– The Company’s international focus, operations and talent market; –– The general external environment and the market context for executive pay; –– The competitive international market for senior executives in the semiconductor industry; and –– The pay and employment practices of Dialog employees generally. Directors’ remuneration policy table The table below summarises Dialog’s remuneration policy for Executive Directors and, where indicated, for non-executive Directors. The policy took formal effect when approved at the 2019 AGM. Base salary Executive Directors Purpose and link to strategy Facilitate recruitment and retention of the best executive talent globally – executives with the experience and expertise to deliver our strategic objectives at an appropriate level of cost. Maximum opportunity Base salary increases will not ordinarily exceed the percentage increases awarded for other UK-based Dialog employees with comparable levels of individual performance and potential. In cases where an Executive Director’s base salary lies materially below the appropriate market competitive level and where such positioning is not sustainable in the view of the Remuneration Committee, annual increases may exceed those for other employees described above. The rationale for any such increase will be described in the Annual report on remuneration for the relevant year. Operation Salary is reviewed annually, with any increases normally taking effect in July. A number of factors are considered including, but not limited to, market pay levels among international industry peers of comparable size, and base salary increases for other Dialog employees. Performance framework n/a Changes in policy at the 2019 AGM No change Retirement benefits Executive Directors Purpose and link to strategy Provide market competitive retirement benefits which help foster loyalty and retention. Maximum opportunity Employer contribution of 15% of base salary. Operation Executive Directors are provided with a defined contribution to pension or equivalent cash allowance arrangement. Performance framework n/a Changes in policy at the 2019 AGM No change 94 Annual report and accounts 2019 Other benefits Executive Directors Purpose and link to strategy Provide market competitive benefits at an appropriate cost which help foster loyalty and retention. Relocation benefits may also be provided based on business need, individual circumstances and location of employment. Maximum opportunity There is no maximum for benefits, but they represent a small percentage of remuneration. In the case of relocation, additional benefits may be provided including, but not limited to, the cost of Corporate governance relocation expenses, real estate fees, tax equalisation to home country and tax return filing assistance, temporary housing and schooling. The Remuneration Committee has discretion to determine the value of such benefits and details of any such benefits provided will be disclosed in the Annual report on remuneration covering the year in which they were provided. Operation Executive Directors are eligible to receive benefits including, but not limited to, a cash allowance in lieu of a company car, medical insurance for the Executive Director and his/her immediate family members, life and disability insurance, holiday (25–30 days a year, based on length of service) and pay in lieu thereof where applicable, and services to assist with preparation of a tax return or returns where necessary due to the international nature of work completed. Any reasonable business-related expenses (including tax thereon) can be reimbursed if determined to be a taxable benefit. Executive Directors are eligible for other benefits and all-employee share plans which are introduced for the wider workforce on broadly similar terms. Performance framework n/a Changes in policy at the 2019 AGM No change Annual bonus plan Executive Directors Purpose and link to strategy Motivate Executive Directors to achieve stretching financial and commercial objectives consistent with and supportive of Dialog’s growth plans. Create a tangible link between annual performance and individual pay opportunity. Maximum opportunity Target award of 125% of base salary. Award value can range between 0 and 2x target award level based on the performance condition. The Committee retains discretion to adjust the overall bonus outcome to take account of performance outside the normal bounds. This discretion cannot be used to raise the bonus outcome above 2x target bonus. Operation The portion of any award up to 100% of base salary is paid in cash, and the portion of any award above 100% of base salary is awarded in deferred shares. Deferred shares normally vest after three years, and are subject to the plan rules in the event of termination or change in control. Dividend equivalents may be paid on any shares which vest. The Committee may vary the performance measures and mix used to adapt to changing Company circumstances. Financial measures will be a significant portion of the total scorecard. Performance framework Performance metrics include: –– Financial goals (which determine a significant portion of bonus every year); –– Commercial goals; and –– Organisational and employee-related goals. For financial metrics, performance is set in line with the stretch annual budget. Changes in policy at the 2019 AGM Increase in target bonus from 100% to 125% of salary. 95 Corporate governance Dialog Semiconductor Plc Directors’ remuneration policy continued Long-Term Incentive Plan (“LTIP”) Executive Directors Purpose and link to strategy Motivate Executive Directors to deliver sustainable long-term shareholder value through long-term profitability and share price growth. Maximum opportunity Target award of £3 million. Maximum award at date of grant is 2x target award level based on the performance condition. Operation Annual award of performance shares (which may also be in the form of nominal/nil-cost options). Performance is measured over three years, based on performance metrics selected by the Remuneration Committee to support the Company’s business strategy. Vesting is dependent on continued employment with the Company at the time of vesting. Dividend equivalents may be paid on any shares which vest. Certain “leaver” provisions apply and are described in the section headed “Termination arrangements” below. A holding period of two years will normally apply to any vesting awards. The Committee has the discretion in certain circumstances to settle an award in cash. In practice this will only be used either to cover the settlement of tax on vesting or in exceptional circumstances for Executive Directors. Performance framework Performance metrics include suitable Company financial performance metrics and at least one third on a relative TSR condition measured versus a comparator group. The Committee reviews and selects appropriate measures and their weightings in advance of each award. 0.5x the target award vests for threshold performance, 1x the target award vests for target performance and 2x the target award vests for maximum performance as defined by the Remuneration Committee under the plan. For the relative TSR condition, Dialog Semiconductor TSR is measured over the three-year performance period and compared to the companies in the comparator group. If Dialog TSR is at the median of the comparator group then 0.5x the target award vests. If Dialog TSR is at the 60th percentile of the comparator group then 1x the target award will vest. If Dialog TSR is at or above the 75th percentile of the comparator group then 2x the target award will vest. For performance in between these levels, vesting is determined on a straight-line basis. If Dialog TSR is negative over the three-year performance period, then the maximum number of shares which can vest subject to the relative TSR condition will be capped at 1x the target award, even if relative TSR is above 60th percentile. For the Company financial performance component, targets are normally set annually over the three-year performance period. Changes in policy at the 2019 AGM Increase in target award from £2 million to £3 million. Termination arrangements Executive Directors Purpose and link to strategy To limit the Company’s liability for payments in cases of termination, and to provide a fair and equitable settlement in line with market practice where appropriate. Maximum opportunity Notice periods from the Company do not exceed 12 months. Termination not in connection with a change in control In the case of the current CEO, the notice period is 12 months. The maximum termination payment due in the case of termination of employment by the Company without “cause” or termination by the Executive for a pre-defined good reason (see definition below) is: –– 1x base salary; –– 12 months’ continuation of pension and fringe benefits; and –– Annual bonus pro-rated for the period worked only and subject to the normal performance test at year end. Termination in connection with a change in control In the case of the current CEO, the notice period from the employee or the Company is 12 months. The maximum payment due in the case of termination of employment by the Company without “cause” or termination by the Executive for a pre-defined good reason in connection with a change in control event is: –– 1x base salary; –– 12 months’ continuation of pension and fringe benefits; and –– Annual bonus time pro-rated for the period worked, and subject to performance. 96 Annual report and accounts 2019 Additional points: The above termination payments (both in connection with and not in connection with a change in control) would be reduced by the amount of any other contractual payments made to the Executive. Such payments could include a payment in lieu of notice, garden leave payment, and/or a payment in lieu of holiday accrual. Any payment in lieu of notice will be limited to the pro-rata value of base salary and the other benefits described under the retirement benefits and other benefits sections above. An Executive Corporate governance can also be placed on garden leave. A pre-defined “good reason” includes: material salary reduction (other than across-the-board reductions of up to 10%) or any reduction on change of control; company required relocation by 30 miles; or material diminution in duties, responsibilities or authority (but a change in reporting line alone does not constitute a good reason). In addition to the above termination payments, the Committee may pay reasonable outplacement and legal fees where considered appropriate and may pay any statutory entitlements or settle any compromise claims in connection with a termination of employment, where considered in the best interests of the Company. Termination provisions for LTIP are as follows: Termination not in connection with a change in control If an Executive Director is not employed by the Company at the time of vesting, the award will lapse, except in certain circumstances as determined by the Board including death, disability, retirement and any other circumstance as decided by the Board. The portion of any award which vests will be determined by the Board based on a number of factors including performance against targets. Alternatively, the Board may decide that outstanding awards will vest in accordance with the normal vesting schedule. Unless the Board decides otherwise, in all cases the vesting level will be reduced in accordance with time proration. In the case that employment is terminated by the Company without cause or termination by the executive for a pre-defined good reason detailed above, then the outstanding awards will vest subject to time proration and performance against targets. Termination in connection with a change in control In the event of a change in control of the Company, any award will be rolled over into an award in the new entity but with the Company having discretion for time pro-rated vesting, subject to performance, with the balance rolled over. Performance-based awards, after application of any performance test, will roll over into time-based awards. Any awards rolled over will ordinarily vest at the nominal vesting date. However, in the case that employment is terminated by the Company without cause, or termination by the executive for a pre-defined good reason detailed above in connection with a change in control, then outstanding awards will vest immediately without time proration. Changes in policy at the 2019 AGM No change Fees Non-executive Directors Purpose and link to strategy Supports recruitment and retention of a non-executive Director with the experience and skills that will make a major contribution to the Dialog Board. Maximum opportunity Aggregate fees are subject to the limit set out in the Articles of Association or any such higher amount as determined by ordinary resolution. Operation Fees are normally reviewed annually. Fees may be paid in a combination of cash and shares subject to any requirements of the Articles of Association of the Company or shareholder resolution. Non-executive Directors’ fees are not eligible for any incentive awards or share options. The Chairman’s fee and other non-executive Director fees are determined by the Board following a review and recommendation by the Remuneration Committee. Non-executive Directors may also receive tax advice. In addition to the fees referred to above, non-executive Directors are also reimbursed for the costs of travel relating to the performance of their duties, and these costs may be grossed-up if treated as a taxable benefit in the applicable jurisdiction. Performance framework Fee reviews take account of individual performance and contribution, company size, growth and complexity, level of experience and market profile and time committed. Changes in policy at the 2019 AGM No change 97 Corporate governance Dialog Semiconductor Plc Directors’ remuneration policy continued Remuneration of Directors on recruitment and appointment Dialog is an international company and competes for executive talent on a global basis. In order to recruit and retain Directors of the calibre needed to execute the Company’s growth objectives it may be necessary to provide remuneration and benefits taking account of practice among other global semiconductor companies. The following principles apply in the case of the external recruitment of Directors and the appointment of internal candidates who may be promoted to the Board: –– As far as possible, the remuneration of new Directors will be set in accordance with the existing Directors’ remuneration policy described in this report; –– The Remuneration Committee will seek to pay no more than is necessary while ensuring that it can attract the best candidates on a global basis; –– The remuneration package provided will take account of a range of factors, including but not limited to, the calibre of a candidate, the level of existing remuneration, the jurisdiction the candidate is recruited from, and the individual’s skills and experience; –– The remuneration package will take account of internal relativities and appropriate international market comparisons; –– The Remuneration Committee has the discretion to determine the fixed elements of a remuneration package (comprising base salary, retirement and other benefits) as it deems necessary and in shareholders’ interests. Exercise of such discretion may be necessary, for example in the event of a new appointment to the Board following an acquisition or where commitments have been made as part of a transaction; and –– The Remuneration Committee will in all cases be guided by reasonable market practice and will take appropriate advice where necessary. The table below outlines policy in respect of recruitment where it differs from that outlined above. Policy in respect of other components of pay is unchanged in recruitment situations from that outlined above. Note that only the references to fees apply to non-executive Directors. Pay component Approach in application to recruitment situations Annual base salary or fee The following factors will be taken into account when determining appropriate base salary/fee: –– The candidate’s existing salary/fee, location of employment, skills and experience and expected contribution to the new role; –– The previous incumbent’s salary/fee for the same role; –– The current salaries/fees of other Dialog Directors; –– Current relevant market pay data for the role; and –– The value of other elements of remuneration to be provided and the combined value of the total package. Other benefits The Company recruits executives on a global basis and recruitment is a case in which the Remuneration Committee may choose to exercise the discretion described in the policy table above to provide relocation benefits. In cases where the Committee believes that the Company and its shareholders’ interests will be served best by provision of relocation benefits, the Committee will seek to limit these benefits both in terms of their value and the period over which they are provided. Benefits provided may include relocation allowances and global mobility benefits such as housing or schooling as described in the policy table, which may be provided on consideration of family size and business need. Long-term incentive The Committee has discretion to provide awards under the LTIP which exceed the maximum outlined in the policy table above in cases where it considers it necessary in order to facilitate recruitment of high-calibre executives. Such awards may be provided as compensation for remuneration foregone at a previous employer as described in the row below. The Committee also has discretion to provide such awards in other circumstances where it considers them necessary to secure an executive’s appointment. In cases other than compensation for or “buy-out” of previous awards, LTIP target awards in addition to normal policy levels will be limited to 100% of a target executive’s Dialog salary. Compensation for forfeited The Committee may choose to compensate for forfeited remuneration when recruiting an external remuneration candidate by providing replacement awards. Where a replacement award is deemed to be necessary, the structure and level will be carefully designed in accordance with the recruitment principles above. Such awards would be designed to take account of the vesting period and where applicable, the performance conditions of the awards they replace. They may include “clawback” provisions. An explanation of the basis of any “buy-out” will be provided as soon as practicably possible after appointment. Service contracts Notice periods offered to new Executive Directors will not normally exceed 12 months. However, if it is necessary to offer an Executive Director a longer notice period at recruitment, then the length of the notice period will reduce on a rolling basis until it is no greater than 12 months. Changes in policy at the 2019 AGM No change 98 Annual report and accounts 2019 Clawback and malus policy Under the rules of the deferred bonus plan, the LTIP and the previous EIP, the Remuneration Committee is entitled to cancel or claw back some or all of a participant’s awards in the event that the Audit Committee of the Company determines that the financial accounts of the Company were misstated to a material extent (such determination must be made within two years of the award date or six years if in relation to fraud or reckless behaviour by an executive). Such clawback may be applied through direct repayment or a reduction in unvested awards or future grants, or a reduction in such other payments as might otherwise be due from the Company to the individual. Corporate governance Shareholding requirement The Committee will set a shareholding requirement for Executive Directors. The requirement for the current CEO is 400% of base salary. The Committee reviews the level of shareholding requirement from time to time and has authority to amend it as necessary. Share options for non-executive Directors Until 2012, non-executive Directors received part of their fees in the form of options over Dialog shares. This practice was felt to align their interests with those of shareholders. Use of options was stopped ahead of the 2013 financial year and the last awards made (in 2012) vested in 2015. No further options have been awarded since 2012 and none will be awarded in future years. Provision of share options is not included in the policy table above as options are not part of the Company’s forward-looking remuneration policy. According to UK regulations however, reference to options must be made in the policy section of the Directors’ remuneration report, in order to permit payments under outstanding awards, hence the inclusion of this section here. Remuneration policy for Executive Directors compared to that for other employees The Company’s remuneration policy for Executive Directors is similar to that for all other Dialog employees. Differences in policy are outlined below: Annual bonus – All Dialog employees participate in annual bonus plans. The nature of those plans varies somewhat by location and employee category. Most employees participate in a profit-sharing plan; a smaller group participates in a plan based on performance against individual objectives; LTIP – Participation in the LTIP is limited to employees in senior roles and executives, which currently comprise around 50 Dialog employees. This number may increase over time as the business grows. Different conditions to those attaching to awards made to Executive Directors may apply; and –– Notice periods – Other UK employees’ contracts of employment include three-month notice periods. Remuneration scenarios for the CEO The charts below illustrate for the 2020 year the pay mix between the different elements of remuneration for the CEO, assuming threshold, target and maximum performance. Amounts are shown in GBP (000s). 626 Minimum 100% 626 322 1,500 Threshold 26% 13% 61% 626 643.8 3,000 Target 15% 15% 70% 626 1,288 6,000 Maximum 8% 16% 76% Maximum 626 1,288 9,000 +50% growth 6% 12% 82% 0 1,000 2,000 3,000 4,000 5,000 6,000 7,000 8,000 9,000 10,000 11,000 12,000 Remuneration (£000s) Fixed Pay Annual Bonus LTIP The scenarios shown above are based on the following assumptions: –– Minimum performance: fixed pay only (base salary, benefits and pension); –– Threshold performance: fixed pay, annual bonus (62.5% of salary) and 0.5x target value of the LTIP award vesting; –– Target performance: fixed pay, annual bonus (125% of salary) and 1x target value of the LTIP award vesting; –– Maximum performance: fixed pay, maximum annual bonus of 250% of salary and 2x target value of the LTIP award vesting; and –– Maximum performance with share price appreciation: Same assumptions as for the maximum performance scenario, but assumes that the value of LTIP shares increases by +50% over the performance period. We have assumed a target LTIP grant of £3 million, which is the limit for the policy. 99 Corporate governance Dialog Semiconductor Plc Annual report on remuneration for the year ended 31 December 2019 1. Executive Director remuneration: Single Figure Table (audited) The table below sets out the single figure for the CEO: Total Total Total Total Fixed Annual Long-term variable excluding salary Benefits Pension pay Bonus Incentive pay LTI Total Incumbent Year US$ US$ US$ US$3 US$4 US$5 US$6 US$7 US$8 Dr Jalal Bagherli 20191,2 661,112 643,822 98,685 1,403,619 1,539,332 2,159,914 3,699,246 2,942,952 5,102,866 Dr Jalal Bagherli 20181,2 620,379 23,927 93,057 737,363 715,298 1,309,796 2,025,094 1,452,661 2,762,457 Notes: 1 Exchange rates used are: 2018: GBP 1 = USD 1.2768; EUR 1 = USD 1.1451; 2019: GBP 1 = USD 1.3210; EUR 1 = USD 1.1228. 2 Base salary earned during the financial year. The base salary is shown in USD in this table, but set and paid in GBP. The CEO’s 2019 GBP base salary increase was 6%. Core CEO benefits were not changed in 2019. The increase in value of Benefits is due to the inclusion of an amount relating to grossed up tax penalties, further information on which is contained in section 2.2. 3 The sum of basic salary, benefits and pension. 4 Annual bonus cash element and deferred share element awarded in relation to the financial year ended 31 December. 5 Over the vesting period of the 2016 LTIP, the share price changed from €33.35 at grant to €26.75 at vesting. This resulted in a reduction of value of the LTIP award of €283,807. Over the vesting period of the 2017 LTIP, the share price changed from €50.19 at grant to €43.89 (average share price over the last three months in 2019). This resulted in a reduction of value of the LTIP award of €277,074. 6 The sum of annual bonus (cash and deferred share element) and long-term incentives. 7 The sum of basic salary, benefits, pension and annual bonus (cash and deferred share element). 8 The sum of basic salary, benefits, pension, annual bonus (cash and deferred share element) and long-term incentives which vested for performance to the end of the year. 2. Commentary on the Executive Director Single Figure Table 2.1 Base salary The Remuneration Committee reviewed the CEO’s base salary in July 2019 with reference to his performance, the scale of the Group, and the positioning of his package compared to Dialog’s peer group. Given the strong performance since 2018 and the base salary freeze in 2018, the CEO was awarded a 6% increase in annual base salary with effect from 1 July 2019 which resulted in his base salary increasing to £515,040 (US$680,368). This level of base salary increase is equivalent to an annualised increase of 3% per annum since 2017, and in line with the range of base salary increases for other employees at Dialog and results in a market positioning around the lower quartile of our peers. 2.2 Other benefits and Pension The CEO received a cash allowance in lieu of a company car £10,200 (US$13,474), medical insurance for himself and his spouse and Group life and income protection insurance. Advances are made to the Executive Director by foreign subsidiaries against foreign taxes as a result of business travel that are repaid as and when the relevant tax credits are received. During 2019, the average amount outstanding was £314,780 (2018: £53,265). No interest is charged on the advances which are treated as a taxable benefit. In late 2019, the Company identified that the application of cross jurisdiction tax rules for specific employees related to stock options, was incomplete, a number of employees had become subject to US tax penalties. The Company agreed to pay specified penalties on behalf of all impacted employees, including the CEO, and will make steps to minimize employee exposure in the future. Included in benefits for the CEO is an amount of £453,865 (US$599,555) which relates to penalties and gross up of amounts due in relation to the following US tax years 2016, 2017, 2018 and 2019. The total value of taxable benefits provided was £487,375 (US$643,822) equivalent to 94.6% of his current salary. This number is artificially high in 2019 due to the tax misinterpretation described above. The CEO receives a pension allowance of 15% of base salary which is in line with policy. In 2019, the Company made pension allowance payments of £74,705 (US$98,685) to the CEO. 2.3 Annual bonus disclosure For 2019, the CEO was eligible for a target annual bonus of 125% of base salary, which could range up to 250% of base salary for maximum performance. The portion of any bonus awarded above 100% of base salary is deferred into shares which vest after three years. Performance measures used were: –– Financial goals (60%) comprising revenue (15%), underlying gross margin (10%), EBIT (15%), diversified revenue (20%); and –– Commercial & organisational goals (40%). The 2019 bonus was determined at 181.0% of target, reflecting performance as set out in the table below. The targets and outcomes for bonus determination are based on financial measures which excluded the effects of specific R&D projects and acquisitions during the course of 2019 and therefore do not match the full company results. Performance targets under these measures are considered by the Board to be commercially sensitive and will, where possible, be disclosed in a future Annual report when they are considered no longer to be commercially sensitive. Between Below Threshold Measure Outcome Threshold and Target On Target Above Target Financial Revenue $1,408m Underlying gross margin 49.8% Underlying operating margin 24.4% Diversification Diversified Revenue The outcomes of the goals in this category were above target overall. Exact figures are not shown as they are deemed commercially sensitive. Commercial & organisational goals See below 100 Annual report and accounts 2019 2. Commentary on the Executive Director Single Figure Table continued 2.3 Annual bonus disclosure continued The overall outcome for the commercial goals was above target. This reflects performance as set out in the table below: Performance Measure Outcome Organisational Goals and M&A Above target performance on this measure to recognise the close of the landmark deal with Apple Inc, two completed acquisitions with FCI and Corporate governance Creative Chips and a company reorganisation. Accordingly, the Committee determined that a bonus equivalent to 226.3% of base salary should be paid for the performance in the 2019 financial year. Of this, 126.3% (£650,238) will be deferred into shares for three years. The Committee also considered the disclosure of the performance targets relating to the 2019 annual bonus. Having reviewed the targets, the Committee decided that the targets continued to be commercially sensitive if disclosed at the same time as the bonus is paid. In response to the request for additional disclosure around performance goals, the Board has reviewed the targets for the 2018 annual bonus and considered these to be no longer commercially sensitive. In line with the commitments set out in the 2018 Annual Report, we intend to disclose the 2019 bonus targets in next year’s Remuneration Report. The 2018 targets are set out below: Bonus payable (% of salary) Bonus Performance Measure Weighting Threshold Target Maximum Outcome Threshold Target Maximum payable Financial Revenue 15% $1,437m $1,597m $1,757m $1,442m 9.375% 18.75% 37.5% 7.7% Underlying gross margin 15% 46.4% 47.8% 50.30% 48.3% 9.375% 18.75% 37.5% 18.0% Underlying operating margin 15% 18.2% 20.2% 22.2% 19.5% 9.375% 18.75% 37.5% 12.4% Diversification 25% The outcome of $531 was just above target overall. 27.2% Commercial 30% Above-target performance on this measure in recognition of the landmark 50.0% goals (Carveagreement with Apple Inc. which clarified our long-term business out/M&A) relationship and monetised our unique IP. Total 115.3% 2.4 LTIP disclosure Awards granted under the 2017 Long-Term Incentive Plan (“LTIP”) are capable of vesting in 2020 subject to the achievement of revenue, underlying operating margin and relative Total Shareholder Return (“TSR”) performance targets. Following the completion of the final performance period in 2019, the Committee has assessed performance against the performance targets set over the performance period and has determined that 84.74% of the target number of share options awarded will vest to participants which is equivalent 42.37% of maximum. Target award level Performance Needed Actual vesting outcome Measure (% of target award) for Maximum Vesting Outcome (% of target award) Revenue 33.3% $4.73bn $4.20bn 33.10% Underlying operating margin 33.3% 21.9% 20.9% 51.64% Relative TSR vs. peer group 33.3% Dialog TSR over the 3-year performance period was below 0% the median of the peer group, i.e. the constituents of the S&P Select Semiconductor Index. For maximum payout, upper quartile performance would have been needed. Total 100.0% 84.74% The Chief Executive was awarded a target number of 51,894 LTIP share options in 2017 (which is equivalent to a maximum number of 103,788 share options if all the maximum performance targets are met). As a result of the actual vesting outcome, 43,980 of the target number of LTIP share options awarded to the Chief Executive in 2017 (i.e. 84.74% of target or 42.37% of maximum) will vest in 2020. As the share price at the date of vesting for the 43,980 share options was not known at the date of publication, they have been valued for the purpose of the single figure using Dialog’s average share price over October, November and December 2019 of Euro 43.89. This results in a value of US$2,159,914. This figure will be updated next year when the actual share price at the date of vesting is known. 2.5 Share awards made during the year In 2019, the CEO was granted LTIP awards which totalled a target value of £3 million in line with the policy in force. As noted in the policy section, shares awarded are structured as nominal priced options, hence the reference to options throughout. Granted number 30-day Value of award % of max average share award that price at date will vest at Awarded during the year Date of award Target Max of grant in £ Target Max threshold Performance period LTIP – performance shares1 08/03/2019 88,563 177,126 £22.5826 £1,999,984 £3,999,967 25% 01/01/2019–31/12/2021 LTIP – performance shares2,3 13/05/2019 36,627 73,254 £27.3017 £999,979 £1,999,959 25% 01/01/2019–31/12/2021 Notes: 1 The value is calculated as the number of shares, multiplied by the average closing Dialog Semiconductor share price over the 30 business days up to and including 8 March 2019 (€25.97). The sterling equivalent share price was £22.5826, resulting in a maximum LTIP award value of £3,999,967 which equates to a target LTIP award of £1,999,984. 2 The value is calculated as the number of shares, multiplied by the average closing Dialog Semiconductor share price over the 30 business days up to and including 13 May 2019 (€31.67). The sterling equivalent share price was £27.3017, resulting in a maximum LTIP award value of £1,999,959 which equates to a target LTIP award of £999,979. 3 A further LTIP award of £1 million (target) was granted to the CEO on 13 May 2019 after the initial award granted on 8 March 2019, as a change to policy to increase the target value was approved at the AGM which was after the date the initial 2019 LTIP grant was awarded. 101 Corporate governance Dialog Semiconductor Plc Annual report on remuneration for the year ended 31 December 2019 continued 2. Commentary on the Executive Director Single Figure Table continued 2.5 Share awards made during the year continued The LTIP performance shares set out in the table above will vest subject to performance against three performance metrics: –– Dialog TSR performance over the three-year performance period relative to the constituents of the S&P 1500 Select Semiconductor index (one third); –– Dialog revenue in each year of the three-year performance period (one third); and –– Dialog underlying operating margin in each year of the three-year performance period (one third). Revenue and underlying operating margin targets are set annually over the three-year performance period of the award. For each annual period a third of this part of the award is assessed on actual Dialog performance against targets set at the beginning of each year. Relative Total Shareholder Return is measured at the third anniversary date of the award over the three-year performance period. Shares accrued during the performance period are released to Executive Directors as soon as practicable after the third anniversary of the award. 2.6 Dilution As disclosed in the 2012 Annual report, share dilution as a result of equity-based incentive awards to all Dialog employees is managed to an average 1% flow rate in order to move over time towards a rolling 10% in ten years. 3. Non-executive Directors’ remuneration: Single Figure Table (audited) Taxable Incentives Incentives Other Shares Fees Benefits (Annual) (Long-term) remuneration Vested Total Incumbent Year US$4 US$ US$ US$ US$ US$ US$ Aidan Hughes2 20191 68,296 4,413 – – – – 72,709 Aidan Hughes2 20181 195,350 11,092 – – – – 206,442 Richard Beyer 20191 287,318 6,507 – – – – 293,825 Richard Beyer 20181 255,360 10,528 – – – – 265,888 Mike Cannon 20191 230,184 4,766 – – – – 234,950 Mike Cannon 20181 203,650 5,831 – – – – 209,481 Eamonn O’Hare 20191 219,947 1,936 – – – – 221,883 Eamonn O’Hare 20181 195,350 2,404 – – – – 197,754 Alan Campbell 20191 231,836 5,350 – – – – 237,186 Alan Campbell 20181 205,565 10,095 – – – – 215,660 Nick Jeffery 20191 224,570 1,436 – – – – 226,006 Nick Jeffery 20181 199,181 2,866 – – – – 202,047 Mary Chan 20191 220,937 4,707 – – – – 225,644 Mary Chan 20181 195,989 8,187 – – – – 204,176 Joanne Curin3 20191 99,075 0 – – – – 99,075 Joanne Curin3 20181 – – – – – – – Notes: 1 Exchange rate used 2018: GBP 1 = USD 1.2768; EUR 1 = USD 1.1451; 2019: GBP 1 = USD 1.3210; EUR 1 = USD 1.1228. 2 Aidan Hughes left the Board on 2 May 2019. 3 Joanne Curin joined the Board on 1 August 2019. 4 Fees include fees paid in cash and shares. 4. Directors’ shareholdings at 31 December 2019 (audited) The CEO is expected to establish and hold a shareholding of at least 400% of salary. The CEO currently exceeds this requirement. Share Awards with Share Awards without Performance Conditions Performance Conditions 10 pence Performance EIP – Share Share options Options Number at ordinary shares invested Deferred options (vested & exercised 31 December 2019 shares (EIP & LTIP) shares shares (unvested) unexercised) in year Total Dr Jalal Bagherli 421,053 616,245 38,117 91,643 – – 103,461 1,270,519 Joanne Curin 608 – – – – – – 608 Aidan Hughes 23,400 – – – – – 2,081 25,481 Richard Beyer 15,383 – – – – – – 15,383 Mike Cannon 11,670 – – – – – – 11,670 Eamonn O’Hare 13,290 – – – – – – 13,290 Alan Campbell 11,490 – – – – – – 11,490 Nick Jeffery 6,916 – – – – – – 6,916 Mary Chan 9,777 – – – – – – 9,777 102 Annual report and accounts 2019 4. Directors’ shareholdings at 31 December 2019 (audited) continued Further detail on the CEO’s EIP, LTIP and deferred bonus share awards, is set out below. Final Exercise Holding at Holding at vesting price 31 Dec 31 Dec Full Name Share plan Grant date date Lapse date (EUR) 2018 Granted Exercised Lapsed 2019 Dr Jalal Bagherli Deferred bonus plan 18/02/2013 18/02/2016 18/02/2020 0.01 42,611 – 42,611 – – Corporate governance Dr Jalal Bagherli Executive incentive plan 16/02/2014 16/02/2017 16/02/2020 0.12 60,850 – 60,850 – – Dr Jalal Bagherli Deferred bonus plan 18/02/2014 18/02/2017 18/02/2021 0.01 40,153 – – – 40,153 Dr Jalal Bagherli Executive incentive plan 18/02/2014 18/02/2017 18/02/2021 0.12 24,690 – – – 24,690 Dr Jalal Bagherli Deferred bonus plan 12/02/2015 12/02/2018 12/02/2022 0.01 29,913 – – – 29,913 Dr Jalal Bagherli Executive incentive plan 12/02/2015 12/02/2018 12/02/2022 0.12 13,427 – – – 13,427 Dr Jalal Bagherli LTIP nominal cost option 01/05/2015 01/03/2018 01/03/2021 0.15 33,526 – – – 33,526 Dr Jalal Bagherli Deferred bonus plan 03/03/2016 03/03/2019 03/03/2023 0.01 11,772 – – – 11,772 Dr Jalal Bagherli LTIP nominal cost option 03/03/2016 01/03/2019 01/03/2022 0.15 182,648 – – 139,647 43,001 Dr Jalal Bagherli LTIP nominal cost option 01/03/2017 01/03/2020 01/03/2023 0.15 103,788 – – – 103,788 Dr Jalal Bagherli Deferred bonus plan 05/03/2018 05/03/2021 05/03/2025 0.01 6,514 – – – 6,514 Dr Jalal Bagherli LTIP nominal cost option 05/03/2018 05/03/2021 05/03/2024 0.15 185,550 – – – 185,550 Dr Jalal Bagherli Deferred bonus plan 08/03/2019 08/03/2022 08/03/2026 0.01 – 3,291 – – 3,291 Dr Jalal Bagherli LTIP nominal cost option 08/03/2019 08/03/2022 05/03/2025 0.15 – 177,126 – – 177,126 Dr Jalal Bagherli LTIP nominal cost option 13/05/2019 13/05/2022 13/05/2029 0.15 – 73,254 – – 73,254 Further detail on the NEDs’ remaining share awards is set out below. Final Exercise Holding at Holding at vesting price 31 Dec 31 Dec Full Name Share plan Grant date date Lapse date (EUR) 2018 Granted Exercised Lapsed 2019 Aidan Hughes NED 2011 share option 18/07/2012 21/04/2015 01/05/2019 0.15 2,081 – 2,081 – – The chart below shows the CEO shareholding as at 31 December 2019 against the shareholding requirement as a % of base salary. Requirement CEO 3,148 685 0 500 1,000 1,500 2,000 2,500 3,000 3,500 4,000 Actual Holding as a % of salary Deferred shares Shareholding requirement 5. Percentage change in CEO remuneration The table below compares the average change in base salary, benefits (excluding pension) and bonus awards for the CEO and for an average UK employee over the period 2018 to 2019. Percentage change from 2018 to 2019 Measure CEO2 Average UK employee Base salary 6.0% 4.5% Taxable benefits 2,500.7% 5.3% Annual bonus 108.0% 98.1%3 Total1 103.6% 8.7% 1 Represents the sum of base salary, taxable benefits and bonus. 2 CEO base salary increased 6% in year, this is equivalent to a 3% increase per year as there was a 0% increase in 2018. Core CEO benefits were not changed in 2019. The increase in value of Benefits is due to the inclusion of an amount relating to grossed up tax penalties, detailed information on which is contained in section 2.2. 3 At the time of preparation for this report, annual bonuses for the Group had yet to be finalised and the numbers presented reflect expected payouts. The annual bonus for the majority of employees is a plan based on EBIT (underlying operating margin) which was above target for 2019. 6. CEO pay ratio The following table shows the ratio between the total remuneration of the CEO and the median total remuneration of our UK employees. Employee total remuneration has been calculated using “Option A” of the published methodology. Financial year ending Methodology 25th percentile pay ratio 50th percentile pay ratio 75th percentile pay ratio 2019 Option A 60 : 1 44 : 1 27 : 1 The above ratios have been calculated using the single figure for the CEO and the following statistics for our UK employees: CEO 25th percentile 50th percentile 75th percentile Total salary £500,463 £47,900 £62,056 £72,194 Total remuneration (single figure) £3,862,881 £64,648 £88,527 £144,677 The CEO pay ratio has been calculated as at 31 December 2019 using Option A as defined in the relevant regulations. This method was chosen as it is the preference of investors and provides a robust analysis. The calculation compares employees on a like for like basis to the CEO; it includes employees employed throughout the whole year, payments were adjusted to reflect full time values by dividing values by hours worked and multiplying by standard UK full time hours, and Bonus and Long-Term Incentives were valued based on 2019 performance, and where an employee has received a maternity payment this has been excluded as the salary has been adjusted to a full time basis. The company believes the median pay ratio for the 2019 financial year is consistent with the pay, reward and progression policies for the company’s UK employees taken as a whole. 103 Corporate governance Dialog Semiconductor Plc Annual report on remuneration for the year ended 31 December 2019 continued 7. Relative importance of spend on pay The chart below compares the amount spent on employee pay by Dialog to amounts spent by Dialog on research and development and distributions to shareholders. 318.6 2019 313.6 250.4 311.2 2018 326.8 0* 0 50 100 150 200 250 300 350 (US$m) Employee remuneration for Group R&D Expenses Distributions to shareholders * Please refer back to “Share buyback programme” on page 69. 8. Review of past performance 8.1 TSR Chart The following graph compares Dialog Semiconductor’s TSR performance to that of the same investment in the German TecDAX Index. This comparison has been chosen because it reflects the local market and industry in which Dialog is listed. We also show a comparison to the Philadelphia SE Semiconductor Sector Index (Price return) as an additional industry comparator, recognising that Dialog competes with companies on an international basis. TSR is the measure of the returns that a company has provided for its shareholders, reflecting share price movements and – where relevant – assuming reinvestment of dividends. Data is averaged over 30 days at the end of each financial year. This graph shows the value, by 31 December 2019, of US$100 invested in Dialog Semiconductor Plc on 31 December 2009 compared with the value of US$100 invested in the German TecDAX Index on the same date. Also plotted is the price index for the Philadelphia Semiconductor Sector Index (rebased to 100). Data has been averaged over 30 days at the end of each financial year. 600 500 400 Value ($) (rebased) 300 200 100 0 31 Dec 09 31 Dec 10 31 Dec 11 31 Dec 12 31 Dec 13 31 Dec 14 31 Dec 15 31 Dec 16 31 Dec 17 31 Dec 18 31 Dec 19 Dialog Semiconductor German TecDAX Index Philadelphia Semiconductor Index Source: FactSet. 8.2 Ten-year Chief Executive single figure remuneration The table below sets out the annual change in the single figure total remuneration provided to the CEO over the previous ten-year period. Financial year ending 31 Dec 2010 31 Dec 2011 31 Dec 2012 31 Dec 2013 31 Dec 2014 31 Dec 2015 31 Dec 2016 31 Dec 2017 31 Dec 2018 31 Dec 2019 Total remuneration including unrealised gains on options in $ (single figure basis)1 4,809,398 30,426,678 2,167,224 2,046,555 4,521,143 5,910,729 5,576,750 2,998,070 2,762,457 5,102,866 Annual bonus (% of maximum)2 N/A N/A 100% 91.94% 89.12% 79.25% 34.62% 64.45% 57.65% 90.5% Long-term variable pay (% of maximum)3 100% 100% 100% 100% 78% 81.3% 61.49% 34.44% 23.54% 42.37% 1 The total remuneration for 2010 and 2011 includes awards made under the 2008 LTIP plan approved by shareholders at the 2008 AGM. The values vested to the CEO from this plan were US$3,593,299 (2010) and US$29,103,138 (2011), resulting from the exceptional performance and share price growth of the Company, as can be seen in the TSR performance chart above. There are no further awards under this plan. Total remuneration includes the value of long-term incentive awards at the time they vest, as required by UK reporting regulations. The actual value realised by the CEO is based on the market value on the date they are permitted (under Directors’ trading restrictions) and/or choose to exercise options or sell shares. The value presented does not therefore reflect exactly that received by the CEO. 2 No maximum bonus was defined prior to 2012. 3 The percentages shown for 2017, 2018 and 2019 long-term variable pay are for the LTIP. In 2017, there was a legacy EIP award with a vesting percentage of 44.88%. 104 Annual report and accounts 2019 9. Statement of implementation for the year ending 31 December 2020 9.1 Executive Director This section details how remuneration will be implemented for the CEO in line with the remuneration policy that was approved at the 2019 AGM. Base salary The CEO’s base salary will be subject to review in 2020 with any change being effective from 1 July 2020. Corporate governance Benefits & pension No change to benefits. Pension contribution remains at 15% of salary. Annual Bonus for the year ending 31 December 2019 The maximum bonus potential will continue to be 2x target bonus, and the target bonus will continue to be 125% of base salary. The annual bonus will be based on similar metrics to last year. Weightings will be in line with the performance framework set out in the remuneration policy and aligned to the key strategic priorities for 2020. There will be a significant weighting on financial metrics supported by appropriate measures of operational and commercial performance. LTIP for the year ending 31 December 2019 The target LTIP award will continue to be £3 million in line with the current policy. As in prior years, the LTIP award will vest after three years subject to the satisfaction of three performance metrics: –– Dialog TSR performance over the three-year performance period relative to the constituents of the S&P 1500 Select Semiconductor index; –– Dialog revenue in each year of the three-year performance period; and –– Dialog underlying operating margin in each year of the three-year performance period. Financial targets will be disclosed retrospectively in the year of vesting. For the relative TSR condition of the 2020 LTIP award, Dialog Semiconductor TSR is measured over the three-year performance period and compared to the companies in the comparator group. If Dialog TSR is at the median of the comparator group then 0.5x the target award vests. If Dialog TSR is at the 60th percentile of the comparator group then 1x the target award will vest. If Dialog TSR is at or above the 75th percentile of the comparator group then 2x the target award will vest. For performance in between these levels, vesting is determined on a straight-line basis. Share Ownership Guidelines Share Ownership Guidelines are required to build and retain a shareholding in Dialog’s shares. The CEO is required to hold the equivalent of 400% of base salary in shares. Holding Period A post-vesting holding period of two years will apply to the 2020 LTIP award. 9.2 Non-executive Directors In 2019, fee rates for non-executive Directors were reviewed against fee rates at our comparator group. Since no increase has been applied since 2016, NED fees were found to have fallen behind market median and even behind lower quartile. As a result, it was decided to increase fees to the market lower quartile. For the NED base fee, this represents an annualised increase of circa 5% per annum, which is in line with increase for UK employees over this period. The new rates which applied from 1 July 2019 are set out below. Fees continue to be delivered in a mix of cash and shares, with the share portion comprising the greater part. Shares are not subject to a performance condition or vesting period. The following table sets out the fee rates for non-executive Directors compared to the rates in 2018. 2019 2018 In thousands Cash Shares Cash Shares Chairman fee £94 £141 £80 £120 Base fee £68 £102 £58 £87 Committee Chair fee Audit £20 – £16 – Remuneration £16 – £12 – Nomination £6 – £5 – Committee membership fee Audit £10 – £8 – Remuneration £8 – £6 – Nomination £3 – £2.5 – 105 Corporate governance Dialog Semiconductor Plc Annual report on remuneration for the year ended 31 December 2019 continued 10. Governance 10.1 The Remuneration Committee The Board as a whole is responsible for setting the Company’s policy on Directors’ remuneration. The Board of Directors has established a Remuneration Committee (the “Committee”) and has delegated authority to this Committee to review and recommend to the Board: the salaries and incentive compensation of the Company’s officers and its subsidiaries; and provide recommendations for other employees and consultants as appropriate. The Committee comprises independent, non-executive Directors. The members are currently Mike Cannon (Chair), Mary Chan and Nick Jeffery. The Committee’s members have no financial interest in the Company other than as shareholders and through the remuneration paid to them by the Company. By invitation, other members of the Board may attend the Committee’s meetings. The CEO and the Senior Vice President, Human Resources may also attend by invitation but take no part in discussions or decisions on matters relating to their own remuneration. The Committee is free to seek its own independent advice free from management as it deems appropriate. During the year, the Committee sought and received general advice relating to remuneration from Aon plc. The Committee is satisfied that the advice received from Aon is objective and independent and is not subject to any material conflict of interest. Aon is a member of the Remuneration Consultants Group and is a signatory to its Code of Conduct; all advice received during the year was provided in accordance with this code. Fees charged by Aon for advice provided to the Committee for 2019 amounted to £162,214. The Committee also received advice from the Senior Vice President, Human Resources and the Company Secretary. During the year, the Committee met formally on four occasions; in addition, the Committee Chairman held a number of meetings with advisers. Responsibilities The Remuneration Committee’s main responsibilities are to: –– Review and recommend to the Board the salaries and incentive compensation of the Company’s CEO and executive management; –– Provide recommendations for other employees and consultants as appropriate; and –– Administer the Company’s compensation, stock and benefits plan. The key activities of the Committee during the year were to: –– Review, plan and recommend to the Board CEO and executive management remuneration; –– Review and address Annual General Meeting outcomes; –– Consider market trends; and –– Review the long-term incentive and the structure of the CEO’s remuneration package. 10.2 Statement of Shareholder voting At the 2019 AGM, 99.68% of shareholders supported the advisory resolution to approve the Annual report on remuneration and 68.69% of shareholders supported the binding resolution to approve the Directors’ remuneration policy. The table below summarises the number of votes for and against the Annual report on remuneration and the Directors’ remuneration policy at the 2019 AGM, and also includes the number of abstentions (referred to as votes withheld). % of voting Votes Total capital Votes for 1 Votes against1 withheld2 votes cast instructed3 Resolution No. of shares % No. of shares % No. of shares No. of shares Approval of Directors’ remuneration report (excluding the Directors’ remuneration policy) 30,539,759 99.68% 98,759 0.32% 2,373,215 30,638,518 40.11% Approval of Directors’ remuneration policy 21,045,922 68.69% 9,593,976 31.31% 2,371,835 30,639,898 40.11% 1 Votes “For” and “Against” are expressed as a percentage of votes received. 2 A “Vote withheld” is not a vote in law and is not counted in the calculation of the votes “For” or “Against” a resolution. 3 Total number of shares in issue at 9am BST (10am CEST) on 30 April 2019 was 76,382,139 shares. 10.3 How stakeholder views are taken into account Shareholder and proxy advisory groups are engaged when the Company is considering material changes to policy, including approval of any new share plans. In addition, as the Company has decided to follow the UK Corporate Governance Code, shareholders are also engaged when an AGM resolution receives support from fewer than 80% of votes cast. There is no formal engagement with employees on matters of executive remuneration but employees are encouraged to provide their view on any aspect of the Company’s operations through meetings with executives and the annual Voice of Dialog employee survey. 10.4 Consultation following the 2019 AGM At the Company’s AGM, held on 2 May 2019, approximately 31.3% of shares cast were voted against the resolution to approve the Directors’ remuneration policy (“DRP”). As announced at the time of issuing the AGM voting results, the Company’s Remuneration Committee had undertaken an extensive consultation with a majority of shareholders in advance of the AGM; most of whom were supportive of proposed changes under the DRP. In advance of the AGM, the Company incorporated changes to the DRP based on shareholder feedback from the consultation process. In light of the voting outcome at the AGM, the Company again corresponded with a majority of shareholders and the Chairman conducted additional one-to-one meetings or calls with shareholders to understand concerns, and no new concerns were raised by Shareholders. The Company will continue to correspond with Shareholders to ensure we understand and can address concerns. Mike Cannon Chairman, Remuneration Committee 4 March 2020 106 Annual report and accounts 2019 Statement of Directors’ responsibilities The Directors are responsible for preparing –– Provide additional disclosures when The Directors are responsible for keeping the Annual report and the Group and parent compliance with the specific requirements adequate accounting records that are company financial statements in accordance in IFRS is insufficient to enable users sufficient to show and explain the parent with the applicable law and regulations. to understand the impact of particular company’s transactions and disclose with transactions, other events and conditions reasonable accuracy at any time the financial UK company law requires the Directors to on the entity’s financial position and position of the parent company and enable prepare Group and parent company financial financial performances; and them to ensure that its financial statements Corporate governance statements for each financial year. Under the –– Make an assessment of the Company’s comply with the Companies Act 2006 and law the Directors are required to prepare the ability to continue as a going concern. Article 4 of the IAS Regulation. Group financial statements in accordance with IFRS as adopted by the EU and Article 4 In preparing the parent company financial They have a general responsibility for of the IAS Regulation and have chosen statements, the Directors are required to: taking such steps as are reasonably open to prepare the parent company financial –– Select suitable accounting policies and to them to safeguard the assets of the statements in accordance with Financial apply them consistently; Group and to prevent and detect fraud and Reporting Standard 101 Reduced Disclosure other irregularities. –– Make judgements and estimates that are Framework. Under UK company law the reasonable and prudent; Under applicable law and regulations, the directors must not approve the financial –– State whether Financial Reporting Standard Directors are also responsible for preparing statements unless they are satisfied that they 101 (Reduced Disclosure Framework) has a Strategic report, Directors’ report and give a true and fair view of the state of affairs been followed, subject to any material Directors’ remuneration report that comply of the Company and of the profit or loss of departures disclosed and explained in the with that law and those regulations. the Company for that period. financial statements; and The Directors are responsible for the In preparing the Group financial statements, –– Prepare the financial statements on a going maintenance and integrity of the corporate International Accounting Standard 1 requires concern basis unless it is inappropriate to and financial information included on the that the Directors: presume that the Company will continue Company’s website. Legislation in the UK –– Properly select and apply accounting in business. governing the preparation and dissemination policies; of financial statements may differ from –– Present information, including accounting legislations in other jurisdictions. policies, in a manner that provides relevant, reliable, comparable and understandable information; Responsibility statement We confirm that to the best of –– the Annual report and financial statements, our knowledge: taken as a whole, are fair, balanced and understandable and provide the –– the financial statements, prepared in information necessary for shareholders accordance with the relevant accounting to assess the Company’s position framework, give a true and fair view of and performance, business model the assets, liabilities, financial position and strategy. and profit or loss of the Company and the undertakings included in the consolidation This responsibility statement was approved taken as a whole; by the Board of Directors on 4 March 2020 –– the Strategic report includes a fair review and is signed on its behalf by: of the development and performance of the business and the position of the Dr Jalal Bagherli Company and the undertakings included Chief Executive Officer in the consolidation taken as a whole, together with a description of the principal risks and uncertainties that they face; and 107 Financial statements Dialog Semiconductor Plc Independent auditor’s report to the members of Dialog Semiconductor Plc Report on the audit of the financial statements 1. Opinion In our opinion: –– the financial statements of Dialog Semiconductor plc (the ‘Parent Company’) and its subsidiaries (the ‘Group’) give a true and fair view of the state of the Group’s and of the Parent Company’s affairs as at 31 December 2019 and of the Group’s profit for the year then ended; –– the Group financial statements have been properly prepared in accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards (IFRSs) as adopted by the European Union and IFRSs as issued by the International Accounting Standards Board (IASB); –– the Parent Company financial statements have been properly prepared in accordance with United Kingdom Generally Accepted Accounting Practice, including Financial Reporting Standard 101 “Reduced Disclosure Framework”; and –– the financial statements have been prepared in accordance with the requirements of the Companies Act 2006 and, as regards the Group financial statements, Article 4 of the IAS Regulation. We have audited the financial statements which comprise: –– the Consolidated statement of income; –– the Consolidated statement of comprehensive income; –– the Consolidated and Parent Company balance sheets; –– the Consolidated statement of cash flows; –– the Consolidated and Parent Company statements of changes in equity; and –– the related Consolidated notes 1 to 38 and the Parent Company notes 1 to 10. The financial reporting framework that has been applied in the preparation of the Group financial statements is applicable law and IFRSs as adopted by the European Union. The financial reporting framework that has been applied in the preparation of the Parent Company financial statements is applicable law and United Kingdom Accounting Standards, including FRS 101 “Reduced Disclosure Framework” (United Kingdom Generally Accepted Accounting Practice). 2. Basis for opinion We conducted our audit in accordance with International Standards on Auditing (UK) (ISAs (UK)) and applicable law. Our responsibilities under those standards are further described in the auditor’s responsibilities for the audit of the financial statements section of our report. We are independent of the Group and the Parent Company in accordance with the ethical requirements that are relevant to our audit of the financial statements in the UK, including the Financial Reporting Council’s (the ‘FRC’s’) Ethical Standard as applied to listed public interest entities, and we have fulfilled our other ethical responsibilities in accordance with these requirements. The non-audit services provided to the Group and Parent Company during the year are disclosed in note 8 to the consolidated financial statements. We confirm that the non-audit services prohibited by the FRC’s Ethical Standard were not provided to the Group or the Parent Company. We believe that the audit evidence we have obtained is sufficient and appropriate to provide a basis for our opinion. 3. Summary of our audit approach Key audit The key audit matters that we identified in the current year were: matters –– Carrying amount of goodwill– revenue growth forecasts used for new and unlaunched product lines; and –– Revenue recognition – the identification and measurement of performance obligations within the licensing and asset transfer agreement with Apple. Within this report, key audit matters are identified as follows: Newly identified Increased level of risk Similar level of risk Decreased level of risk Materiality We determined materiality for the Group financial statements to be US$11.2 million, which represents 5.0% of Group pre-tax profit adjusted for the non-recurring impact of the licensing and asset transfer agreement with Apple. Parent Company materiality has been determined to be US$ 11.1 million, which represents 1.5% of its net assets, capped at 99% of Group materiality. Scoping We conducted full scope audit procedures on the Parent Company as well as the three largest components, which represent 99% of the Group’s revenue, 80% of the Group’s pre-tax profit and 98% of Group’s net assets. We performed specified audit procedures on three additional components. Significant We highlight the following changes to our key audit matters from the prior year: changes in –– Revenue recognition – the identification and measurement of performance obligations within the licensing and asset our approach transfer agreement with Apple The Group entered in to a significant licensing and asset transfer agreement with Apple during the year which had a significant revenue impact in 2019. We consider the identification and valuation of performance obligations within this licensing agreement to be a key audit matter relating to revenue recognition. –– Capitalisation of development costs The level of capitalised development costs has reduced from US$24.8 million in 2018 to US$15.4 million in 2019 primarily as a result of a reduction in R&D spend following the licensing and asset transfer agreement with Apple during the year. Consequently, we have determined that this no longer represents a key audit matter. 108 Annual report and accounts 2019 4. Conclusions relating to going concern We are required by ISAs (UK) to report in respect of the following matters where: –– the Directors’ use of the going concern basis of accounting in preparation of the financial statements is not appropriate; or –– the Directors have not disclosed in the financial statements any identified material uncertainties that may cast significant doubt about the Group’s or the Parent Company’s ability to continue to adopt the going concern basis of accounting for a period of at least twelve months from the date when the financial statements are authorised for issue. We have nothing to report in respect of these matters. 5. Key audit matters Key audit matters are those matters that, in our professional judgement, were of most significance in our audit of the financial statements of the current period and include the most significant assessed risks of material misstatement (whether or not due to fraud) that we identified. These matters included those which had the greatest effect on: the overall audit strategy, the allocation of resources in the audit; and directing the efforts of the engagement team. These matters were addressed in the context of our audit of the financial statements as a whole, and in forming our opinion thereon, and we do not provide a separate opinion on these matters. We note the below key audit matters are also referenced as an area of focus of the Audit Committee on page 90 of the annual report. Financial statements 5.1 Carrying amount of goodwill – revenue growth projections used for new and unlaunched product lines – Refer to Note 15 to the consolidated financial statements Key audit The Group’s annual evaluation of goodwill for impairment involves the comparison matter of the recoverable amount of each operating segment to which goodwill is description allocated to its carrying amount. Recoverable amount represents the higher 3 4 of fair value less costs to sell and value in use. The Group used a discounted cash flow model to estimate value in use, which requires significant estimates and assumptions related to forecasts of future revenues. Changes in these Goodwill by assumptions could have a significant impact on the value in use, the amount operating of any goodwill impairment charge, or both. The goodwill balance of segment 2 US$482.1 million as at 31 December 2019 was allocated to operating segments as set out in Note 15 to the consolidated financial statements. We note that the value in use of the operating segments exceeded the carrying 1 amount as of the measurement date for all of the operating segments and, therefore, no impairment has been recognised. We identified a key audit matter US$m in respect of new and unlaunched product lines within three of the operating 1. Advanced Mixed Signal 244.1 segments based on the sensitivity of the value in use to changes in revenue 2. Connectivity & Audio 98.4 forecasts for these products. 3. Custom Mixed Signal business group 107.2 For Advanced Mixed Signal, revenue growth is specifically driven by the 4. Industrial Mixed Signal business unit 32.4 backlighting integrated circuits (“ICs”) and configurable mixed-signal integrated circuits (“CMICs”) product lines. For Connectivity & Audio, revenue growth is specifically driven by Bluetooth® Low Energy (“BLE”) with the majority of the growth in BLE being from new products. For Custom Mixed Signal business group, revenue growth is driven by custom power management integrated circuits (“PMICs”) forecast to be sold to existing customers. Given the significant judgements made in determining the forecast revenue used in the value in use model, we have performed audit procedures requiring a high degree of auditor judgement and increased effort to evaluate the reasonableness of the estimates and assumptions. How the scope Our audit procedures related to the impairment review focused on the appropriateness of the revenues assumed in the cash of our audit flow forecasts of the above mentioned product lines. The procedures performed included the following: responded –– We obtained an understanding of internal controls in relation to the annual impairment evaluation process, in particular key to the key controls that ensure the reasonableness of the Board-approved three-year Strategic Plan and the forecasts used in the value audit matter in use model, and the preparation and review of the impairment assessment. –– We challenged management’s ability to accurately forecast future revenues by comparing prior year forecast revenues to actual performance to assess historical accuracy of forecasting, with particular focus on assessing the performance of products previously categorised as new products which have now launched. We also tested the mathematical accuracy of the value in use models. –– We obtained third party analyst and industry reports in order to challenge the reasonableness of the growth rates assumed by management in the value in use models. –– We enquired of management, including individuals outside of finance, to understand and challenge the assumptions in the revenue forecasts with focus on the above mentioned products identified in our sensitivity analysis that have the most significant impact on future performance. –– We challenged the impact of differences between management’s Annual Operating Plan for 2020 and the Strategic Plan used in the annual impairment evaluation as at 27 September 2019, and the year end update as at 31 December 2019, as well as reviewing 2020 trading to date and obtaining evidence of post-year end order backlogs for new products launched in 2020. Key Our audit procedures did not identify any impairment of goodwill and we are satisfied that the impairment assessment observations is reasonable and in accordance with IFRS. We are satisfied that the sales forecasts supporting management’s impairment review are within an acceptable range of values. 109 Financial statements Dialog Semiconductor Plc Independent auditor’s report to the members of Dialog Semiconductor Plc continued 5.2 Revenue recognition – the identification and measurement of performance obligations within the licensing and asset transfer agreement with Apple – Refer to Note 3 to the consolidated financial statements Key audit The completion of the licensing and asset transfer agreement with Apple in April 2019 represented a new revenue contract that matter significantly affected current year financial performance. The Group granted the use of specified intellectual property to Apple in description the form of a perpetual licence for a fee of US$145.8 million, which was fully recognised as revenue in 2019, and an effective fouryear license of US$136.4 million recognised as deferred revenue, of which US$18.5 million was recognised as revenue in 2019. In addition, Apple made an interest-free prepayment to Dialog of US$300.0 million that included a “below market element” of US$11.4 million, which management considered to represent additional consideration in respect of the licensing and asset transfer agreement. The identification and measurement of performance obligations within the licensing agreement and the associated allocation of the consideration to those performance obligations, particularly the royalty rates used in determining the standalone selling price of the effective licence, required significant management judgement which could be subject to potential bias. How the scope Our audit procedures relating to the licensing and asset transfer agreement was focused on challenging the appropriateness of our audit of the judgements made by management and the application of those judgements in recognising revenue during 2019. responded –– We obtained an understanding of internal controls in relation to management’s identification and valuation of performance to the key obligations in the licensing and asset transfer agreement. audit matter –– We evaluated management’s application of the accounting standards and the methodology used in accounting for the licensing and asset transfer agreement with the assistance of our internal accounting specialists. We evaluated the basis of recognition and measurement of revenue recognised under the associated licensing agreements to ascertain that it was recognised in accordance with IFRS 15 Revenue from Contracts with Customers. –– We engaged our internal valuation specialists in order to challenge the appropriateness of management’s assumptions and the methodology of the models used in determining the fair value of the performance obligations specific to the licensing and asset transfer agreement which drives the basis of and point of recognition of revenue. Key Our audit procedures did not identify any material misstatement in management’s revenue recognition for significant new and/ observations or modified revenue contracts. We note that the royalty rate applied to revenue projections in the valuation of the effective license is at the higher end of the acceptable range. We are satisfied with the appropriateness of the performance obligations determined by management related to the licensing and asset transfer agreement and the associated revenue recognised during the year. 6. Our application of materiality 6.1 Materiality We define materiality as the magnitude of misstatement in the financial statements that makes it probable that the economic decisions of a reasonably knowledgeable person would be changed or influenced. We use materiality both in planning the scope of our audit work and in evaluating the results of our work. Based on our professional judgement, we determined materiality for the financial statements as a whole as follows: Group financial statements Parent Company financial statements Materiality US$11.2 million (2018: US$10.7 million) US$11.1 million (2018: US$10.6 million) Basis for Our materiality for the Group represents 5% of adjusted The Parent Company materiality equates to 1.5% of Parent determining pre-tax profit of US$223.4 million. Company net assets of US$923.2 million, capped at 99% materiality In 2018, our materiality was based on 5.4% of pre-tax of Group materiality. profit of US$196.2 million. In 2018, our materiality was based on 2% of net assets of US$917.1 million, capped at 99% of Group materiality. Rationale for We have based materiality on pre-tax profit adjusted for the Our base for determining materiality is in line with the prior year. the benchmark non-recurring profits associated with the licensing and asset We consider net assets to be a key benchmark for users of the applied transfer agreement with Apple in the current year. financial statements, including customers, suppliers and other We consider pre-tax profit to be a key benchmark for users of parties such as tax authorities. the financial statements, including customers, suppliers and other parties such as tax authorities and therefore the above mentioned adjustment in the current year is to maintain a level of materiality comparable with the prior year. Group materiality US$11.2m Pre-tax profit Component materiality adjusted for licensing range US$7.8m to US$4.5m and asset transfer agreement with Apple US$223.4m Audit Committee reporting threshold US$0.56m Pre-tax profit Group materiality 110 Annual report and accounts 2019 6.2 Performance materiality We set performance materiality at a level lower than materiality to reduce the probability that, in aggregate, uncorrected and undetected misstatements exceed the materiality for the financial statements as a whole. Group performance materiality was set at 70% of group materiality for the 2019 audit (2018: 70%). In determining performance materiality, we considered a number of factors including the quality of the control environment, including the control deficiencies identified, as well as the low level of corrected and uncorrected misstatements. 6.3 Error reporting threshold We agreed with the Audit Committee that we would report to the Committee all audit differences in excess of US$559,000 (2018: US$535,500), as well as differences below that threshold that, in our view, warranted reporting on qualitative grounds. We also report to the Audit Committee on disclosure matters that we identified when assessing the overall presentation of the financial statements. 7. An overview of the scope of our audit 7.1 Identification and scoping of components Our Group audit was scoped by obtaining an understanding of the Group and its environment, including an understanding of geographical positioning of accounting processing, management decision making and risk of material misstatement at the Group level. The Group has operations present in sixteen countries across Europe, North America and Asia; however, the majority of transactional accounting processing as well as the consolidation is performed in Germany, which co-ordinates closely with the UK head office finance team. Financial statements We focused on the component located in Germany as well as three components located in the UK where we performed full scope audits, covering 99% (2018: 94%) of revenue, 80% (2018: 83%) of pre-tax profit and 98% (2018: 99%) of net assets. For three other components, we performed specific audit procedures on defined balances and transactions, which increased our coverage to cover 99% of revenue, 96% of pre-tax profit and 98% of net assets as detailed below: Revenue Profit Net assets before tax Full audit scope 99% Full audit scope 80% Full audit scope 98% Specified audit procedures 0% Specified audit procedures 16% Specified audit procedures 0% Review at Group level 1% Review at Group level 4% Review at Group level 2% Full audit scope Specified audit procedures Review at Group level 7.2 Working with other auditors We engaged our German member firm to perform the audit of the components subject to the Group’s finance function based in Nabern, Germany. This included both full scope and specified audit balance testing supporting the Group audit opinion. The Group audit team was in active dialogue throughout the audit with the component audit team responsible for the audit work under the direction and supervision of the Group audit team. This included determining whether the work was planned and performed in accordance with the overall Group audit strategy and the requirements of our Group audit instructions to the component audit team. As part of supervising the work of the component audit team, the Group audit team visited Germany at the planning, interim and year-end stages of the audit. 8. Other information The Directors are responsible for the other information. The other information comprises the information included in the annual report, other than the financial statements and our auditor’s report thereon. Our opinion on the financial statements does not cover the other information and, except to the extent otherwise explicitly stated in our report, we do not express any form of assurance conclusion thereon. In connection with our audit of the financial statements, our responsibility is to read the other information and, in doing so, consider whether the other information is materially inconsistent with the financial statements or our knowledge obtained in the audit or otherwise appears to be materially misstated. If we identify such material inconsistencies or apparent material misstatements, we are required to determine whether there is a material misstatement in the financial statements or a material misstatement of the other information. If, based on the work we have performed, we conclude that there is a material misstatement of this other information, we are required to report that fact. We have nothing to report in respect of these matters. 111 Financial statements Dialog Semiconductor Plc Independent auditor’s report to the members of Dialog Semiconductor Plc continued 9. Responsibilities of directors As explained more fully in the directors’ responsibilities statement, the Directors are responsible for the preparation of the financial statements and for being satisfied that they give a true and fair view, and for such internal control as the Directors determine is necessary to enable the preparation of financial statements that are free from material misstatement, whether due to fraud or error. In preparing the financial statements, the directors are responsible for assessing the Group’s and the Parent Company’s ability to continue as a going concern, disclosing as applicable, matters related to going concern and using the going concern basis of accounting unless the Directors either intend to liquidate the Group or the Parent Company or to cease operations, or have no realistic alternative but to do so. 10. Auditor’s responsibilities for the audit of the financial statements Our objectives are to obtain reasonable assurance about whether the financial statements as a whole are free from material misstatement, whether due to fraud or error, and to issue an auditor’s report that includes our opinion. Reasonable assurance is a high level of assurance, but is not a guarantee that an audit conducted in accordance with ISAs (UK) will always detect a material misstatement when it exists. Misstatements can arise from fraud or error and are considered material if, individually or in the aggregate, they could reasonably be expected to influence the economic decisions of users taken on the basis of the financial statements. Details of the extent to which the audit was considered capable of detecting irregularities, including fraud and non-compliance with laws and regulations are set out below. A further description of our responsibilities for the audit of the financial statements is located on the FRC’s website at: www.frc.org.uk/auditorsresponsibilities. This description forms part of our auditor’s report. 11. Extent to which the audit was considered capable of detecting irregularities, including fraud We identify and assess the risks of material misstatement of the financial statements, whether due to fraud or error, and then design and perform audit procedures responsive to those risks, including obtaining audit evidence that is sufficient and appropriate to provide a basis for our opinion. 11.1 Identifying and assessing potential risks related to irregularities In identifying and assessing risks of material misstatement in respect of irregularities, including fraud and non-compliance with laws and regulations, we considered the following: –– the nature of the industry and sector, control environment and business performance including the design of the Group’s remuneration policies, key drivers for directors’ remuneration, bonus levels and performance targets; –– results of our enquiries of management, internal audit, internal legal counsel and the audit committee about their own identification and assessment of the risks of irregularities; –– any matters we identified having obtained and reviewed the Group’s documentation of their policies and procedures relating to: –– identifying, evaluating and complying with laws and regulations and whether they were aware of any instances of non-compliance; –– detecting and responding to the risks of fraud and whether they have knowledge of any actual, suspected or alleged fraud; –– the internal controls established to mitigate risks of fraud or non-compliance with laws and regulations; –– the matters discussed among the audit engagement team including the component audit team and involving relevant internal specialists, including tax, valuations and information technology specialists regarding how and where fraud might occur in the financial statements and any potential indicators of fraud. As a result of these procedures, we considered the opportunities and incentives that may exist within the organisation for fraud and identified the greatest potential for fraud in the following areas: management override of controls and the identification and interpretation of the contractual terms of significant new and/or updated revenue contracts. We also obtained an understanding of the legal and regulatory frameworks that the Group operates in, focusing on provisions of those laws and regulations that had a direct effect on the determination of material amounts and disclosures in the financial statements. The key laws and regulations we considered in this context included among others, the UK Companies Act, German listing rules and tax legislation (UK, USA and Germany). In addition, we considered provisions of other laws and regulations that do not have a direct effect on the financial statements but compliance with which may be fundamental to the Group’s ability to operate or to avoid a material penalty. 11.2 Audit response to risks identified As a result of performing the above, we identified Revenue recognition – the identification and measurement of performance obligations within the licensing and asset transfer agreement with Apple as the key audit matter related to the potential risk of fraud. The key audit matters section of our report explains this matter in more detail and also describes the specific procedures we performed in response to the key audit matter. In addition to the above, our procedures to respond to risks identified included the following: –– reviewing the financial statement disclosures and testing to supporting documentation to assess compliance with provisions of relevant laws and regulations described as having a direct effect on the financial statements; –– enquiring of management, the Audit Committee and in-house as well as external legal counsel concerning actual and potential litigation and claims; –– performing analytical procedures to identify any unusual or unexpected relationships that may indicate risks of material misstatement due to fraud; 112 Annual report and accounts 2019 –– reading minutes of meetings of those charged with governance, reviewing internal audit reports and reviewing regulatory correspondence; and –– in addressing the risk of fraud through management override of controls, testing the appropriateness of journal entries and other adjustments; assessing whether the judgements made in making accounting estimates are indicative of a potential bias; and evaluating the business rationale of any significant transactions that are unusual or outside the normal course of business. We also communicated relevant identified laws and regulations and potential fraud risks to all engagement team members including internal specialists and the component audit team, and remained alert to any indications of fraud or non-compliance with laws and regulations throughout the audit. Report on other legal and regulatory requirements 12. Opinions on other matters prescribed by the Companies Act 2006 In our opinion the part of the directors’ remuneration report to be audited has been properly prepared in accordance with the Companies Act 2006. In our opinion, based on the work undertaken in the course of the audit: –– the information given in the strategic report and the directors’ report for the financial year for which the financial statements are prepared is consistent with the financial statements; and Financial statements –– the strategic report and the directors’ report have been prepared in accordance with applicable legal requirements. In the light of the knowledge and understanding of the Group and the Parent Company and their environment obtained in the course of the audit, we have not identified any material misstatements in the strategic report or the directors’ report. 13. Matters on which we are required to report by exception 13.1 Adequacy of explanations received and accounting records Under the Companies Act 2006 we are required to report to you if, in our opinion: –– we have not received all the information and explanations we require for our audit; or –– adequate accounting records have not been kept by the Parent Company, or returns adequate for our audit have not been received from branches not visited by us; or –– the Parent Company financial statements are not in agreement with the accounting records and returns. We have nothing to report in respect of these matters. 13.2 Directors’ remuneration Under the Companies Act 2006 we are also required to report if in our opinion certain disclosures of directors’ remuneration have not been made or the part of the directors’ remuneration report to be audited is not in agreement with the accounting records and returns. We have nothing to report in respect of these matters. 14. Other matters 14.1 Auditor tenure Following the recommendation of the Audit Committee, we were appointed by the directors of Dialog Semiconductor Plc on 25 January 2016 to audit the financial statements for the year ending 31 December 2015 and subsequent financial periods. The period of total uninterrupted engagement including previous renewals and reappointments of the firm is five years, covering the years ended 31 December 2015 to 31 December 2019. 14.2 Consistency of the audit report with the additional report to the Audit Committee Our audit opinion is consistent with the additional report to the Audit Committee we are required to provide in accordance with ISAs (UK). 15. Use of our report This report is made solely to the Parent Company’s members, as a body, in accordance with Chapter 3 of Part 16 of the Companies Act 2006. Our audit work has been undertaken so that we might state to the Parent Company’s members those matters we are required to state to them in an auditor’s report and for no other purpose. To the fullest extent permitted by law, we do not accept or assume responsibility to anyone other than the Parent Company and the Parent Company’s members as a body, for our audit work, for this report, or for the opinions we have formed. Alexander Butterworth ACA (Senior statutory auditor) For and on behalf of Deloitte LLP Statutory Auditor Reading, UK 4 March 2020 113 Financial statements Dialog Semiconductor Plc Consolidated statement of income Year ended 31 December 2019 2018 2017 Note US$000 US$000 US$000 Revenue 6, 35 1,566,239 1,442,138 1,352,841 Cost of sales (717,703) (751,070) (707,971) Gross profit 848,536 691,068 644,870 Selling and marketing expenses (92,951) (83,877) (70,412) General and administrative expenses (101,587) (84,351) (74,850) Research and development expenses (313,550) (326,309) (303,013) Other operating income/(expense) 6 39,405 3,176 (9,578) Operating profit 6, 35 379,853 199,707 187,017 Interest income 9 21,950 9,883 5,995 Interest expense 9 (11,309) (3,134) (1,302) Other finance (expense)/income 9 (5,456) (10,263) 3,093 Profit before income taxes 385,038 196,193 194,803 Income tax expense 10 (83,586) (55,281) (25,369) Profit after income taxes 301,452 140,912 169,434 Share of loss of associate – (1,113) – Net income 301,452 139,799 169,434 Attributable to: – Shareholders in the Company 301,452 139,799 173,916 – Non-controlling interests 30 – – (4,482) Net income 301,452 139,799 169,434 Earnings per share (US$) 11 Basic 4.19 1.89 2.34 Diluted 3.96 1.80 2.21 Weighted average number of ordinary shares (in thousands) 11 Basic 71,896 73,959 74,472 Diluted 76,181 77,655 78,611 114 Annual report and accounts 2019 Consolidated statement of comprehensive income Year ended 31 December 2019 2018 2017 Note US$000 US$000 US$000 Net income 301,452 139,799 169,434 Other comprehensive income/(expense) Items that may be reclassified to profit or loss in subsequent periods Currency translation differences on foreign operations: – Gain/(loss) recognised in the year 2,710 (527) 1,658 – Loss transferred to profit or loss on disposal of a subsidiary 3 309 – – – Gain transferred to profit or loss on deconsolidation of Dyna Image 5 – – (1,144) – Related income tax (expense)/credit (91) (78) 180 Available-for-sale investments: – Fair value gain in the year 19 – – 5,971 – Related income tax expense – – (1,015) Cash flow hedges: – Fair value (loss)/gain recognised on effective hedges in the year (3,941) (10,075) 16,433 – Fair value loss/(gain) transferred to profit or loss in the year 9,549 (2,343) (441) Financial statements – Related income tax (expense)/credit (1,065) 2,376 (3,149) 7,471 (10,647) 18,493 Items that will not be reclassified to profit or loss Equity investments: – Fair value loss in the year 19 (6,994) (23,764) – – Related income tax credit – 1,015 – Remeasurements of net defined benefit liability: – Remeasurements recognised in the year 26 (666) – – – Related income tax credit 146 – – (7,514) (22,749) – Other comprehensive (loss)/income for the year (43) (33,396) 18,493 Total comprehensive income for the year 301,409 106,403 187,927 Attributable to: – Shareholders in the Company 301,409 106,403 192,416 – Non-controlling interests – – (4,489) Total comprehensive income for the year 301,409 106,403 187,927 115 Financial statements Dialog Semiconductor Plc Consolidated balance sheet As at 31 December 2019 2018 Note US$000 US$000 Assets Cash and cash equivalents 12 1,024,544 677,848 Trade and other receivables 13 134,079 114,514 Other current financial assets 20 1,056 202 Inventories 14 122,624 149,736 Income tax receivables 1,052 2,146 Other current assets 21 22,532 18,306 1,305,887 962,752 Assets classified as held for sale 22 – 11,295 Total current assets 1,305,887 974,047 Goodwill 15 482,134 439,508 Other intangible assets 16 272,068 217,445 Property, plant and equipment – owned 17 61,138 66,359 Property, plant and equipment – leased 18 41,423 – Investments 19 3,110 11,538 Other non-current financial assets 20 2,202 1,807 Other non-current assets 21 780 398 Deferred tax assets 10 8,242 6,034 Total non-current assets 871,097 743,089 Total assets 2,176,984 1,717,136 Liabilities and equity Trade and other payables 23 104,620 122,140 Lease liabilities 18 8,972 – Other current financial liabilities 24 124,373 196,890 Provisions 25 4,162 5,253 Income taxes payable 18,491 8,193 Other current liabilities 27 112,804 58,237 373,422 390,713 Liabilities directly associated with assets held for sale 22 – 3,167 Total current liabilities 373,422 393,880 Lease liabilities 18 34,072 – Other non-current financial liabilities 24 80,963 841 Provisions 25 3,102 3,078 Net defined benefit liability 26 1,727 – Deferred tax liabilities 10 23,070 7,958 Other non-current liabilities 27 88,044 8,872 Total non-current liabilities 230,978 20,749 Ordinary shares 14,204 14,204 Share premium account 403,660 403,660 Retained earnings 1,451,582 930,576 Other reserves 28 (274,729) (23,419) Dialog shares held by employee benefit trusts (22,133) (22,514) Total equity 1,572,584 1,302,507 Total liabilities and equity 2,176,984 1,717,136 These financial statements were approved by the Board of Directors on 4 March 2020 and were signed on its behalf by: Dr Jalal Bagherli Director 116 Annual report and accounts 2019 Consolidated statement of cash flows Year ended 31 December 2019 2018 2017 Note US$000 US$000 US$000 Cash flows from operating activities Net income 301,452 139,799 169,434 Non-cash items within net income: – Depreciation of property, plant and equipment 17, 18 39,611 31,455 30,807 – Amortisation of intangible assets 16 52,233 49,130 41,969 – Impairment of non-current assets 3,130 – 4,327 – Addition to inventory reserve, net 11,133 5,643 1,288 – Share-based compensation expense 46,539 41,153 35,320 – Deferred licence revenue (18,484) – – – Loss on deconsolidation of Dyna Image 5 – – 5,597 – Other non-cash items 2,812 6,590 (7,904) Effective IP licence fee received 3 136,400 – – Gain on transfer of design centre businesses 3 (15,898) – – Interest income, net 9 (10,641) (6,749) (4,693) Financial statements Income tax expense 10 83,586 55,281 25,369 Cash generated from operations before changes in working capital 631,873 322,302 301,514 Changes in working capital: – (Increase)/decrease in trade and other receivables (95,189) (36,310) 11,117 – Decrease/(increase) in inventories 23,196 13,615 (54,377) – (Increase)/decrease in prepaid expenses (893) 56 1,930 – (Decrease)/increase in trade and other payables (23,107) 15,968 7,819 – (Decrease)/increase in provisions (1,661) 3,089 2,136 – Change in other assets and liabilities 15,449 2,852 473 Cash generated from operations 549,668 321,572 270,612 Interest paid (4,322) (530) (425) Interest received 21,638 8,714 6,221 Income taxes (paid)/received (70,519) (41,107) 8,314 Cash inflow from operating activities 496,465 288,649 284,722 Cash flows from investing activities Purchase of property, plant and equipment (12,129) (26,145) (47,938) Purchase of intangible assets (8,437) (6,197) (6,196) Payments for capitalised development costs (15,384) (24,771) (20,988) Purchase of businesses, net of acquired cash 4 (139,806) (12,840) (267,940) Proceeds from transfer of design centres, net of cash disposed 3 27,814 – – Cash held by Dyna Image on deconsolidation 5 – – (420) Purchase of other investments, net – – (13,738) Increase in other long-term assets – – (488) Cash outflow from investing activities (147,942) (69,953) (357,708) Cash flows from financing activities Receipt of prepayment from Apple 3 288,584 – – Cash settlement of prepayment from Apple 3 (20,345) – – Purchase of own shares into treasury (251,774) – (125,035) Settlement of currency hedges on share buyback obligation (11,625) – 1,227 Capital element of lease payments (11,086) (1,651) (4,283) Repayment of bank loans (156) – – Purchase of shares by employee benefit trusts – (21,786) (24,301) Sale of shares by employee benefit trusts 3,362 3,617 7,246 Issue of shares by a subsidiary to non-controlling interests – – 1,107 Share issue and facility arrangement costs – – (1,016) Cash inflow/(outflow) from financing activities (3,040) (19,820) (145,055) Net cash inflow/(outflow) during the year 345,483 198,876 (218,041) Cash and cash equivalents at beginning of year 677,848 479,295 697,167 Currency translation differences 1,213 (323) 169 Cash and cash equivalents at end of year 12 1,024,544 677,848 479,295 An analysis of changes in liabilities arising from financing activities is presented in note 24. 117 Financial statements Dialog Semiconductor Plc Consolidated statement of changes in equity Year ended 31 December Dialog shares Equity Share Other held by attributable to NonOrdinary premium Retained reserves employee shareholders in controlling shares account earnings (note 28) benefit trusts the Company interests Total US$000 US$000 US$000 US$000 US$000 US$000 US$000 US$000 As at 31 December 2016 14,402 403,687 862,914 (70,566) (20,608) 1,189,829 5,077 1,194,906 Net income – – 173,916 – – 173,916 (4,482) 169,434 Other comprehensive income/(loss) – – – 18,500 – 18,500 (7) 18,493 Total comprehensive income/(loss) – – 173,916 18,500 – 192,416 (4,489) 187,927 Other changes in equity: – Purchase of own shares into treasury – – 3,024 (125,050) – (122,026) – (122,026) – Share buyback obligation – – 62,584 – – 62,584 – 62,584 – Cancellation of treasury shares (571) – (186,522) 187,093 – – – – – Shares issued by Dyna Image – – 361 – – 361 746 1,107 – Deconsolidation of Dyna Image – – – – – – (1,334) (1,334) – Shares issued to employee benefit trust 373 (27) – – (373) (27) – (27) – Purchase of shares by employee benefit trusts – – – – (24,301) (24,301) – (24,301) – Sale of shares by employee benefit trusts – – (37,134) – 44,380 7,246 – 7,246 – Share-based compensation, net of tax – – 36,339 – – 36,339 – 36,339 As at 31 December 2017 14,204 403,660 915,482 9,977 (902) 1,342,421 – 1,342,421 Adjustment on initial application of IFRS 15 – – 1,541 – – 1,541 – 1,541 Adjusted balance as at 1 January 2018 14,204 403,660 917,023 9,977 (902) 1,343,962 – 1,343,962 Net income – – 139,799 – – 139,799 – 139,799 Other comprehensive loss – – – (33,396) – (33,396) – (33,396) Total comprehensive income/(loss) – – 139,799 (33,396) – 106,403 – 106,403 Other changes in equity: – Share buyback obligation – – (171,187) – – (171,187) – (171,187) – Purchase of shares by employee benefit trusts – – – – (21,786) (21,786) – (21,786) – Sale of shares by employee benefit trusts – – 3,443 – 174 3,617 – 3,617 – Share-based compensation, net of tax – – 41,498 – – 41,498 – 41,498 As at 31 December 2018 14,204 403,660 930,576 (23,419) (22,514) 1,302,507 – 1,302,507 Adjustment on initial application of IFRS 16 (note 37) – – 40 – – 40 – 40 Adjusted balance as at 1 January 2019 14,204 403,660 930,616 (23,419) (22,514) 1,302,547 – 1,302,547 Net income – – 301,452 – – 301,452 – 301,452 Other comprehensive loss – – (520) 477 – (43) – (43) Total comprehensive income/(loss) – – 300,932 477 – 301,409 – 301,409 Other changes in equity: – Purchase of own shares into treasury – – (4,431) (251,787) – (256,218) – (256,218) – Share buyback obligation – – 169,505 – – 169,505 – 169,505 – Sale of shares by employee benefit trusts – – 2,981 – 381 3,362 – 3,362 – Share-based compensation, net of tax – – 51,979 – – 51,979 – 51,979 As at 31 December 2019 14,204 403,660 1,451,582 (274,729) (22,133) 1,572,584 – 1,572,584 118 Annual report and accounts 2019 Notes to the consolidated financial statements For the year ended 31 December 2019 1. Background Description of business Dialog Semiconductor Plc (“the Company”) is a public limited company that is incorporated in England and Wales and domiciled in the United Kingdom. The Company’s ordinary shares are listed on the Frankfurt Stock Exchange. Dialog creates and markets highly integrated, mixed-signal integrated circuits, optimised for personal, portable, hand-held devices, low energy short-range wireless, LED solid state lighting, industrial and automotive applications. Following a segment reorganisation that became effective at the beginning of the second quarter of 2019, Dialog has three reporting segments: Custom Mixed Signal; Advanced Mixed Signal; and Connectivity & Audio. Segment information is presented in note 35. Registered office The Company’s registered office is at Tower Bridge House, St Katharine’s Way, London E1W 1AA, United Kingdom. Statement of compliance The consolidated financial statements of the Company and its subsidiaries (together, “Dialog” or “the Group”) set out on pages 114 to 175 have been prepared in accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards (“IFRS”) as adopted for use in the European Union, the Disclosure and Transparency Rules of the United Kingdom’s Financial Conduct Authority, the disclosure requirements of the German Securities Trading Act (WpHG) and those parts of the Companies Act 2006 that are applicable to companies reporting under IFRS and therefore comply with Article 4 of the IAS Regulation. The consolidated financial statements also comply with IFRS as issued by the Financial statements International Accounting Standards Board (“IASB”). Basis of preparation The consolidated financial statements have been prepared on a going concern basis and in accordance with the historical cost convention, except that certain investments, derivative financial instruments and contingent consideration are stated at fair value. Fair value is the price that would be received to sell an asset or paid to transfer a liability in an orderly transaction between market participants at the measurement date. Information about assets and liabilities that are measured at fair value is presented in note 33. The Group’s significant accounting policies are set out in note 2. Presentation currency The consolidated financial statements are presented in US dollars (“US$”), which is the functional currency of the Company. All US dollar amounts are rounded to the nearest thousand (“US$000”), except where stated otherwise. Approval of the consolidated financial statements The consolidated financial statements for the year ended 31 December 2019 were authorised for issue by the Board of Directors on 4 March 2020. Company financial statements Separate financial statements for the Company are set out on pages 176 to 182. Relevant accounting standards adopted during the year IFRS 16 Leases We adopted IFRS 16 with effect from 1 January 2019. We adopted IFRS 16 using the modified retrospective approach, whereby information presented for prior periods has not been restated. An explanation of the changes introduced by IFRS 16 and their impact on the Group’s results and financial position are set out in note 37. On adoption of IFRS 16, the Group recognised a cumulative effect credit of US$40 to retained earnings. During 2019, the Group’s operating profit was US$1,923 higher and its net income US$790 lower than it would have been under the predecessor accounting standard, IAS 17 Leases. IFRIC 23 Uncertainty over Income Tax Treatments With effect from 1 January 2019, we adopted IFRIC 23 which clarified the application of the recognition and measurement requirements of IAS 12 Income Taxes where there is uncertainty over income tax treatments. IFRIC 23 specifically considers whether tax treatments should be considered collectively, assumptions with regard to examinations by tax authorities, the determination of taxable profit (tax loss), tax bases, unused tax losses, unused tax credits and tax rates and the effect of changes in facts and circumstances. Since we already accounted for income taxes on a basis consistent with IFRIC 23, its adoption had no impact on the Group’s results or financial position. Plan Amendment, Curtailment or Settlement (Amendments to IAS 19) In February 2018, the IASB published amendments to IAS 19 Employee Benefits which, among other things, require that if an amendment, curtailment or settlement of a defined benefit plan occurs, the current service cost and the net interest for the period after the remeasurement must be determined using the assumptions used for the remeasurement. The amendments became effective for annual periods beginning on or after 1 January 2019. Prior to the acquisition of FCI in May 2019, the Group had no defined benefit plans and the amendments were therefore not relevant to us. We therefore effectively adopted the amendments on the acquisition of FCI. 119 Financial statements Dialog Semiconductor Plc Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued 1. Background continued Relevant accounting standards issued by the IASB but not yet adopted Definition of a Business (Amendments to IFRS 3) In October 2018, the IASB published amendments to IFRS 3 Business Combinations aimed at resolving the difficulties that can arise when an entity determines whether it has acquired a business or a group of assets. In summary, the amendments clarify that to be considered a business, an acquired set of activities and assets must include, at a minimum, an input and a substantive process that together significantly contribute to the ability to create outputs and narrow the definition of outputs by focusing on goods and services provided to customers. We will apply the amendments in the future if there is ambiguity as to whether we have acquired a business or a group of assets. Subject to endorsement for use in the European Union, the amendments will be effective for business combinations with an acquisition date on or after 1 January 2020. Definition of Material (Amendments to IAS 1 and IAS 8) In October 2018, the IASB published amendments to IAS 1 Presentation of Financial Statements and IAS 8 Accounting Policies, Changes in Accounting Estimates and Errors to clarify the definition of material in those standards and align with the definition used in the Conceptual Framework. The amendments are effective for annual periods beginning on or after 1 January 2020. We do not expect that the amendments will cause us to reach a different conclusion as to whether an item is or is not material. Interest Rate Benchmark Reform (Amendments to IFRS 9 and IFRS 7) Interbank offered rates (IBORs) are benchmark interest rates, such as LIBOR, and EURIBOR, that represent the cost of obtaining unsecured funding, in a particular combination of currency and maturity and in a particular interbank term lending market. Work is underway in multiple jurisdictions to transition to alternative benchmark interest rates. In September 2019, the IASB published amendments to IFRS 9 Financial Instruments and IFRS 7 Financial Instruments: Disclosures to clarify that during the transition period entities should continue to apply certain hedge accounting requirements assuming that the interest rate benchmark on which the hedged cash flows and cash flows from the hedging instrument are based will not be altered as a result of interest rate benchmark reform. The amendments are effective for annual periods beginning on or after 1 January 2020. We will make reference to the amendments in the future if we engage in interest rate hedging activities in a market in which existing benchmark interest rates have not been replaced. Classification of Liabilities as Current or Non-Current (Amendments to IAS 1) In January 2020, the IASB published amendments to IAS 1 Presentation of Financial Statements to clarify that the classification of liabilities with an uncertain settlement date as current or non-current is based on rights that exist at the end of the reporting period. Subject to endorsement for use in the European Union, the amendments will be effective for annual periods beginning on or after 1 January 2022. We do not consider that the amendments would have changed the classification of any liabilities that were recognised as at 31 December 2019. 2. Significant accounting policies Basis of consolidation The consolidated financial statements incorporate the results, cash flows and assets and liabilities of the Company and its subsidiaries and sponsored employee benefit trusts. A subsidiary is an entity that is controlled, either directly or indirectly, by the Company. Control exists when the Company is exposed, or has rights, to variable returns from its involvement with the entity and has the ability to affect those returns through its power to direct the relevant activities of the entity. Generally, such power exists where the Company holds a majority of the voting rights of an entity. When the Company holds less than a majority of the voting rights of an entity, it considers all relevant facts and circumstances in assessing whether or not its voting rights are sufficient to give it power to direct the activities that significantly affect its returns from the entity, including: the size of the Company’s holding of voting rights relative to the size and dispersion of the holdings of other vote holders; potential voting rights held by the Company, other vote holders or other parties; and rights arising from other contractual arrangements. Details of the Company’s subsidiaries as at 31 December 2019 are set out on page 197. Consolidation of a subsidiary commences when the Company obtains control over the subsidiary and ceases at such time as control over the subsidiary is lost. Transactions and balances between members of the Group, and any unrealised profits or losses on such transactions, are eliminated on consolidation. Non-controlling interests represent the equity in a subsidiary that is not attributable, directly or indirectly, to the Company. Where the equity in a subsidiary is not wholly-owned by the Company, the subsidiary’s profit or loss and each component of its other comprehensive income are attributed to the Company and to the non-controlling interests in proportion to their ownership interests. Changes in the Company’s ownership interest in a subsidiary that do not result in a loss of control are accounted for within equity. 120 Annual report and accounts 2019 2. Significant accounting policies continued Business combinations A business combination is a transaction or other event in which the Company obtains control over a business. Business combinations are accounted for using the acquisition method. Goodwill acquired in a business combination is recognised as an intangible asset and represents the excess of the aggregate of the consideration transferred, including contingent consideration, and the amount of any non-controlling interests in the acquired business over the net total of the identifiable assets and liabilities of the acquired business at the acquisition date. Any shortfall, negative goodwill, is recognised immediately as a gain in profit or loss. Consideration transferred represents the sum of the fair values at the acquisition date of the assets given, liabilities incurred or assumed and equity instruments issued by the Group in exchange for control over the acquired business. Acquisition-related costs are charged to profit or loss in the period in which they are incurred. Identifiable assets and liabilities of the acquired business are measured at their fair value at the acquisition date, except for certain items that are measured in accordance with the relevant Group accounting policy, such as replacement equity-settled share-based compensation awards and deferred tax assets and liabilities. Non-controlling interests that entitle their holders to a proportionate share of the net assets of the acquired business in the event of a Financial statements liquidation are measured either at fair value or at the non-controlling interest’s proportionate share of the identifiable assets and liabilities of the business. Other non-controlling interests are measured at fair value. Contingent consideration is subsequently measured at fair value unless it is classified as equity. Changes in the fair value of contingent consideration that result from events after the acquisition date are recognised in profit or loss. Contingent consideration that is classified as equity is not remeasured and its subsequent settlement is accounted for within equity. Investment in associate An associate is an entity over which the Company has significant influence. Significant influence is the power to participate in financial and operating policy decisions but not to control or jointly control them. Significant influence generally exists where the Company holds, directly or indirectly through one or more of its subsidiaries, more than 20% and less than 50% of the shareholders’ voting rights. Associates are accounted for using the equity method, whereby the Group’s investment is initially recognised at cost and the carrying amount is increased or decreased to reflect the Group’s share of the profit or loss of the associate. Losses of an associate in excess of the Group’s interest in the entity are not recognised, except to the extent that the Group has incurred obligations or made payments on behalf of the associate. Foreign currency translation Each entity within the Group has a functional currency, which is normally the currency in which the entity primarily generates and expends cash. The functional currency of the Company and its principal subsidiaries is the US dollar. At entity level, a foreign currency is a currency other than the entity’s functional currency. Sales, purchases and other transactions denominated in foreign currencies are recorded in the entity’s functional currency at the exchange rate ruling at the date of the transaction. Monetary assets and liabilities denominated in foreign currencies are translated at the exchange rate ruling at the balance sheet date. Currency translation differences arising at entity level are recognised in profit or loss. The Group’s presentation currency is the US dollar. Foreign operations are therefore those of the Company’s subsidiaries and associates whose functional currency is not the US dollar. On consolidation, the results of foreign operations are translated into US dollars at the average exchange rate for the period and their assets and liabilities are translated into US dollars at the exchange rate ruling at the balance sheet date. Currency translation differences arising on consolidation are recognised in other comprehensive income and taken to the currency translation reserve. In the event that a foreign operation is sold, the related cumulative currency translation difference recognised in other comprehensive income is reclassified from equity to profit or loss and is included in calculating the gain or loss on disposal of the foreign operation. 121 Financial statements Dialog Semiconductor Plc Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued 2. Significant accounting policies continued Revenue recognition We generate revenue principally through the sale of our products. Revenue is also generated from licence fees and royalties for the use of intellectual property and from research and development contracts. Sales of products Sales of products are mostly made direct to end-customers but we also sell to distributors. Revenue from the sale of products is recognised when the customer obtains control of the products. We consider that control passes when the products are transferred to the customer. Accordingly, where products are sold on “ex-works” incoterms, revenue is recognised when the products are released for collection by the customer. Otherwise, revenue is recognised when the products are delivered to the customer. Where products are supplied on a consignment basis, delivery takes place and revenue is recognised when the products are taken out of the consignment by the customer. Revenue recognised on the sale of products is measured at the fair value of the consideration received or receivable, excluding sales taxes and after making allowance for rebates and product returns. Where we sell to a distributor on “ship and debit” terms, the distributor may be entitled to a rebate if the distributor sells the product to end-customers at a price lower than the price at which the distributor purchased the products from us. Rebates are estimated using the expected value method based on actual rebates granted at the distributor and product level during the preceding quarter so as to reflect current pricing trends. Prior to adopting IFRS 15 Revenue from Contracts with Customers on 1 January 2018, we recognised revenue from sales to distributors on ship and debit terms when the products were sold by the distributor to end-customers by which time the amount of the rebate due to the distributor was known. Most of our distributor customers are entitled to limited rights of return, referred to as stock rotation rights. Typically, returns are allowed twice-yearly for a credit of up to a percentage of the value of products shipped by us to the distributor during the preceding six-month period. Revenue on sales to distributors is recognised after making an allowance for stock rotation claims that is estimated based on stock rotation credits granted at the distributor level during the preceding six-month period. As permitted by IFRS 15, we do not capitalise the incremental costs of obtaining contracts (such as sales representatives’ commissions) because the amortisation period of such costs would be one year or less. Licensed intellectual property Where a licence provides the customer with the “right to use” the related IP as it exists at a point in time, the licence revenue is recognised when the licence is granted. Where a licence provides the customer with a “right to access” the related IP as it develops during the licence period, the licence revenue is recognised over the licence period. Sales or usage-based royalties are recognised when the subsequent sale or usage occurs. Research and development contracts Revenue from research and development contracts typically arises when a counterparty contributes to the cost of researching, designing, developing and testing a new product or product enhancement. Revenue from research and development contracts is recognised when we have the right to invoice the counterparty but only to the extent that cumulative amount invoiced does not exceed the value of the work completed to date. Where research and development contracts do not involve the transfer of goods or services to the counterparty, the revenue recognised in relation to them is presented as other operating income. Research and development expenditure All research expenditure is expensed as it is incurred. Development expenditure is also expensed as it is incurred until such time as it can be demonstrated that the product is both technically feasible and commercially viable and that management intends to complete the development of the product and sell it to customers. Development expenditure incurred after that time and before the developed product is available to be put into full production is capitalised. Generally, development expenditure is expensed until relatively late in the development process when prototypes are available for quality and other tests. Government grants Government grants are not recognised until there is reasonable assurance that Dialog will comply with the conditions attaching to them and that the grants will be received. A grant that is receivable as compensation for expenses incurred is recognised in profit or loss in the period in which it becomes receivable and is deducted from the related expense. A grant whose primary condition is that Dialog should purchase, construct or otherwise acquire a non-current asset is recognised as deferred revenue and transferred to profit or loss on a straight-line basis over the useful life of the related asset. 122 Annual report and accounts 2019 2. Significant accounting policies continued Goodwill Goodwill acquired in a business combination is carried at cost as established at the acquisition date, less impairment losses, if any. Internally generated goodwill is not recognised as an asset. Other intangible assets Other intangible assets comprise identifiable intangibles acquired in business combinations (principally customer-related assets and developed technology), licences, computer software, patents and product development costs. Other intangible assets held by the Group have finite useful lives and are therefore carried at cost less accumulated amortisation and impairment losses, if any. Cost comprises the purchase price of the asset (including non-refundable purchase taxes) and any costs directly attributable to preparing the asset for its intended use, or, in the case of an asset acquired in a business combination, is its fair value at the acquisition date. Other intangible assets are amortised on a straight-line basis so as to charge their cost to profit or loss over their estimated useful lives as follows: Useful life Customer-related assets 1 to 15 years Financial statements Software, licences and other 3 to 10 years Patents 10 years Product development assets 1 to 5 years Patents are typically granted for a period of 20 years but they are amortised over the period during which the Group expects to benefit from them, which is typically ten years. Estimated useful lives are regularly reviewed and the effect of any change in estimate is accounted for on a prospective basis. Property, plant and equipment – owned Property, plant and equipment is measured at cost less accumulated depreciation and impairment losses, if any. Cost comprises the purchase price of the asset (including non-refundable purchase taxes) and any costs directly attributable to bringing the asset to the location and condition necessary to enable its intended use, or, in the case of an asset acquired in a business combination, is its fair value at the acquisition date. Leasehold improvements include the estimated cost of any obligation to restore the leased property to its original condition at the end of the lease. Costs of replacing a significant part of an asset are included in the cost of the asset but routine repairs and maintenance costs are recognised in profit or loss when they are incurred. Items of property, plant and equipment are depreciated on a straight-line basis so as to charge their cost, less their estimated residual value, if any, to profit or loss over their estimated useful lives as follows: Useful life Freehold buildings 33 to 50 years Test equipment 3 to 8 years Leasehold improvements Shorter of useful life or lease term Office and other equipment 1 to 5 years Office furniture and fittings 5 to 15 years Estimated residual values and useful lives are regularly reviewed and the effect of any change in estimate is accounted for on a prospective basis. Freehold land and assets that are under construction are not depreciated. 123 Financial statements Dialog Semiconductor Plc Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued 2. Significant accounting policies continued Property, plant and equipment – leased Property, plant and equipment that we control as lessee is represented by a right-of-use asset and an associated lease liability except where the lease is short-term or the underlying asset is of low value. On the commencement date of a lease, the lease liability is measured at the present value of the future lease payments discounted using the interest rate implicit in the lease, if that rate can be readily determined, or using the lessee entity’s incremental borrowing rate. Future lease payments comprise fixed payments, less any lease incentives receivable, variable payments that depend on an index or rate and, where applicable, amounts expected to be paid under a residual value guarantee, a purchase option or by way of termination penalties. Variable lease payments that do not depend on an index or rate are not reflected in the lease liability and are recognised in profit or loss in the period in which the event that triggers those payments occurs. After the commencement date, the carrying amount of the lease liability is increased to reflect interest on the lease liability, reduced to reflect lease payments made and remeasured to reflect reassessments of the future lease payments or certain lease modifications. Interest on the lease liability is recognised in profit or loss (within interest expense). On the commencement date of a lease, the right-of-use asset is measured at cost which comprises the initial amount of the lease liability, any lease payments made at or before the commencement date, less any lease incentives received, and any initial direct costs that we incur in relation to the lease. After the commencement date, the right-of-use asset is measured at cost less accumulated depreciation and any accumulated impairment losses and adjusted for any remeasurement of the lease liability. Right-of-use assets are depreciated so as to charge their cost to profit or loss (in arriving at operating profit), usually on a straight-line basis over the lease term. As permitted by IFRS 16, we elected not to recognise right-of-use assets and lease liabilities in respect of short-term leases (leases that have a lease term of 12 months or less) or leases involving an underlying asset of low value (an asset with a value when new of less than US$5 or foreign currency equivalent). We recognise the lease payments for those leases as an expense in profit or loss (in arriving at operating profit) on a straight-line basis over the lease term. Prior to adopting IFRS 16 on 1 January 2019, leases that confer rights and obligations similar to those that attach to owned assets were classified as finance leases. All other leases were classified as operating leases. Assets held under finance leases were recognised as assets within property, plant and equipment, initially measured at the fair value of the leased asset or, if lower, the present value of the minimum lease payments, and a corresponding liability was recognised. Subsequently, the assets were depreciated over the shorter of the expected useful life of the asset or the lease term. At inception of the lease, the lease payments were apportioned between a capital element and an interest element so as to achieve a constant periodic rate of interest on the outstanding liability. Subsequently, the interest element was recognised as an expense in profit or loss while the capital element was applied to reduce the outstanding liability over the lease term. Operating lease payments, net of any incentives receivable, were recognised in profit or loss on a straight-line basis over the lease term. Impairment of tangible and intangible assets Goodwill, other intangible assets and property, plant and equipment are tested for impairment whenever events or circumstances indicate that their carrying amounts may not be recoverable. Additionally, goodwill and intangible assets still under development are subject to an annual impairment test. An asset is impaired to the extent that its carrying amount exceeds its recoverable amount. An asset’s recoverable amount represents the higher of the asset’s value in use and its fair value less costs to sell. An asset’s value in use represents the present value of the future cash flows expected to be derived from the asset in its current use and condition. Fair value less cost to sell is the amount expected to be obtainable from the sale of the asset in an arm’s length transaction between knowledgeable, willing parties, less the costs of disposal. Where it is not possible to estimate the recoverable amount of an individual asset, the recoverable amount is determined for the cashgenerating unit (“CGU”) to which the asset belongs. An asset’s CGU is the smallest group of assets that includes the asset and generates cash inflows that are largely independent of the cash inflows from other assets or groups of assets. Goodwill does not generate cash flows independently of other assets and is, therefore, tested for impairment at the level of the CGU or group of CGUs that are expected to benefit from the synergies of the related business combination. Value in use is based on estimates of pre-tax cash flows in the periods covered by budgets and/or plans that have been approved by the Board. Such cash flow estimates are discounted at a pre-tax discount rate that reflects the risks specific to the asset or the CGU or group of CGUs to which the asset belongs. Impairment losses are recognised in profit or loss. Impairment losses recognised in previous periods for assets other than goodwill are reversed if there has been a change in the estimates used to determine the asset’s recoverable amount, but only to the extent that the carrying amount of the asset does not exceed its carrying amount had no impairment been recognised in previous periods. Impairment losses in respect of goodwill are not reversed. 124 Annual report and accounts 2019 2. Significant accounting policies continued Financial instruments Trade and other receivables Trade receivables represent the invoiced amount of sales of goods to customers for which payment has not been received, less an allowance for doubtful accounts. As permitted by IFRS 9 Financial Instruments, we recognise an allowance for credit losses in respect of trade receivables from initial recognition measured as the amount of the lifetime expected credit losses. Prior to adopting IFRS 9 on 1 January 2018, we recognised a credit loss allowance only when there was objective evidence that we may not be able to collect the amount due. When a trade receivable is determined to be uncollectable it is written off, firstly against any allowance made and then directly to profit or loss. Subsequent recoveries are credited to profit or loss. Trade receivables sold under receivables financing facilities are derecognised from the balance sheet because the financial institutions concerned assume the credit risk associated with them. Retentions held by the financial institutions are recognised as other receivables. Cash and cash equivalents Cash and cash equivalents include cash at bank and in hand, cash available on demand from receivables financing facilities, investments in money market funds and short-term deposits with an original maturity of three months or less. Interest income on cash and cash equivalents is accrued on a time basis. We normally recognise an allowance for credit losses in respect of cash and cash equivalents that is measured as the amount of expected Financial statements credit losses over the next 12 months. If, however, the risk of default has increased significantly since initial recognition, we measure the allowance as the amount of lifetime credit losses. Prior to adopting IFRS 9, we recognised a credit loss allowance only when there was objective evidence of default. Equity investments Equity investments are initially measured at fair value plus transaction costs, if any. Equity investments are subsequently measured at fair value with resulting gains and losses recognised in profit or loss unless we irrevocably elect for such gains and losses to be recognised in other comprehensive income. On adoption of IFRS 9, we made this election in respect of our strategic investment in the common shares of Energous Corporation. Consequently, fair value gains or losses arising subsequent to 1 January 2018 that may be realised on any future sale of all or part of this investment will not be reclassified to profit or loss. Prior to adopting IFRS 9, equity investments were classified as available-for-sale investments. Trade and other payables Trade payables represent the amount of invoices received from suppliers for purchases of goods and services for which payment has not been made. Long-term payables are discounted where the effect is material. Bank and other loans Bank and other loans are initially measured at fair value plus transaction costs, if any. Such loans are subsequently measured at amortised cost using the effective interest method. Facility arrangement costs are amortised over the term of the facility. Derivative financial instruments We use derivative financial instruments to reduce the Group’s exposure to currency exchange rate movements and hold equity options and warrants in relation to certain of its strategic investments. We do not hold or issue derivatives for speculative purposes. All derivative financial instruments are recognised as assets and liabilities measured at fair value. Unless a derivative is in a designated and effective cash flow hedging relationship, all fair value gains and losses are recognised in profit or loss. Where the fair value of a derivative on initial recognition differs from the transaction price, if any, the difference is recognised immediately in profit or loss only if the fair value is evidenced by a quoted price in an active market or is based on a valuation technique that uses only data from observable markets. Offsetting financial instruments Financial assets and financial liabilities are offset and the net amount presented in the balance sheet where there is a currently enforceable legal right to offset the recognised amounts and management intends either to settle on a net basis or to realise the asset and settle the liability simultaneously. Inventories Inventories comprise raw materials, work in progress and finished goods. Inventories are stated at the lower of cost and net realisable value, with due allowance for any excess, defective or obsolete items. Cost is determined using the first-in, first-out (“FIFO”) method. Cost of finished goods and work in progress includes materials, direct labour, other direct costs and related production overheads. Net realisable value is the estimated selling price, less estimated costs of completion and estimated selling, marketing and distribution costs. Assets classified as held for sale An asset or group of assets is classiﬁed as held for sale if its carrying amount will be recovered by sale rather than by continuing use in the business, it is available for immediate sale in its present condition and management has committed to, and has initiated, a plan to sell the asset which, when initiated, was expected to result in a completed sale within 12 months. Assets that are classiﬁed as held for sale are measured at the lower of their carrying amount when classified as held for sale and fair value less costs to sell. 125 Financial statements Dialog Semiconductor Plc Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued 2. Significant accounting policies continued Hedge accounting The Group uses forward currency contracts to hedge its exposure to exchange rate movements on forecast operating expenses denominated in foreign currencies, principally the Euro and the pound sterling. Where possible, these contracts are designated as hedging instruments in cash flow hedge relationships. Changes in the fair value of such hedging instruments are recognised in other comprehensive income to the extent that the hedges are effective. Ineffective portions are recognised in profit or loss immediately. Cumulative fair value gains and losses recognised in other comprehensive income are reclassified from equity to profit or loss when the forecast cash flow occurs. Hedge accounting is discontinued if we revoke the hedge relationship, when the hedging instrument expires or is sold, terminated or exercised, or when it no longer qualifies for hedge accounting. If the hedging instrument expires or is sold, terminated or exercised, or if the hedge relationship no longer meets the conditions for hedge accounting, the cumulative fair value gain or loss remains in equity until the forecast cash flow occurs. If the hedged forecast cash flow is no longer expected to occur, the cumulative fair value gain or loss is reclassified from equity to profit or loss immediately. Income taxes Current tax is the amount of tax payable or recoverable in respect of the taxable profit or loss for the period. Taxable profit differs from accounting profit because it excludes income or expenses that are recognised in the period for accounting purposes but are either not taxable or not deductible for tax purposes or are taxable or deductible in earlier or subsequent periods. Current tax is calculated using tax rates and laws that have been enacted or substantively enacted at the balance sheet date. Deferred tax is tax expected to be payable or recoverable on temporary differences between the carrying amount of an asset or liability in the financial statements and its tax base used in the computation of taxable profit. Deferred tax liabilities are generally recognised for all taxable temporary differences. Deferred tax assets are generally recognised for all deductible temporary differences to the extent that it is probable that taxable profits will be available in the future against which they can be utilised. Deferred tax assets and liabilities are not recognised in respect of temporary differences arising from the initial recognition of goodwill or from the initial recognition of other assets or liabilities in a transaction other than a business combination that affects neither accounting profit nor taxable profit. Deferred tax liabilities are recognised for taxable temporary differences associated with investments in subsidiaries, except where we are able to control the reversal of the temporary difference and it is probable that it will not reverse in the foreseeable future. Deferred tax assets and liabilities are measured using the tax rates that are expected to apply when the asset is realised or the liability is settled, based on tax rates and laws that have been enacted or substantively enacted at the balance sheet date. Where there is uncertainty concerning the tax treatment of an item or group of items, the amount of current and deferred tax recognised is based on management’s expectation of the likely outcome of the examination of the uncertain tax treatment by the relevant tax authorities. Uncertain tax treatments are reviewed regularly and current and deferred tax amounts are adjusted to reflect changes in facts and circumstances, such as the expiry of limitation periods for assessing tax, administrative guidance given by the tax authorities and court decisions. Current tax assets and liabilities are offset when there is a legally enforceable right to set off the amounts and management intends to settle on a net basis. Deferred tax assets and liabilities are offset when there is a legally enforceable right to offset current tax assets and liabilities and the deferred tax assets and liabilities relate to income taxes levied by the same taxation authority on the same taxable entity. Current tax and deferred tax is recognised in profit or loss unless it relates to an item that is recognised in the same or a different period outside profit or loss, in which case the related tax is also recognised outside profit or loss, either in other comprehensive income or directly in equity. Provisions Provisions for product warranty claims are established based on historical trends of warranty costs as a percentage of sales. Dilapidation provisions are established for the cost of restoring leasehold property to its original condition at the end of the lease. Provisions are also established for surplus leasehold property or otherwise onerous property leases. Post-retirement benefit plans Defined contribution plans Contributions to defined contribution and state-funded pension plans are recognised in profit or loss in the period to which the contributions relate. Defined benefit plan As described in note 26, the Group has one defined benefit pension plan in South Korea. A net defined benefit liability is recognised in respect of the plan that represents the excess of the present value of the benefit obligation over the fair value of the plan assets. The benefit obligation is measured on an actuarial basis using the projected unit credit method and is discounted using a discount rate derived from high-quality corporate bonds with a similar duration as the benefit obligation. The plan assets are measured at their fair value. We recognise the current service cost and net interest on the net defined benefit liability in profit or loss. The current service cost represents the increase in the present value of the defined benefit obligation resulting from employee service in the period. Net interest on the net defined benefit liability is determined by multiplying the net defined benefit liability by the discount rate applied to the benefit obligation, both as determined at the beginning of each year, but taking into account contributions and benefit payments during the period. We recognise the effect of remeasurements of the net defined benefit liability in other comprehensive income. Remeasurements comprise actuarial gains and losses arising due to changes in actuarial assumptions and experience adjustments and the difference between the return on plan assets and the component of the net interest on the net defined benefit liability recognised in profit or loss that is attributable to the plan assets. 126 Annual report and accounts 2019 2. Significant accounting policies continued Share-based compensation As described in note 31, the Company operates share-based compensation plans under which it grants options and other awards over its ordinary shares to employees of its subsidiaries. Awards granted under the existing plans are classified as equity-settled awards. We recognise a compensation expense that is based on the fair value of the awards measured at the grant date using the Black-Scholes option pricing formula or a Monte Carlo valuation model. Fair value is not subsequently remeasured unless relevant conditions attaching to the awards are modified. Fair value reflects any market performance conditions and all non-vesting conditions. Adjustments are made to the compensation expense to reflect actual and expected forfeitures due to failure to satisfy service conditions or non-market performance conditions. We recognise the resulting compensation expense on a systematic basis over the vesting period and a corresponding credit is recognised in equity. In the event of the cancellation of an option or an award by the Company or by the participating employee, the compensation expense that would have been recognised over the remainder of the vesting period is recognised immediately in profit or loss. Payroll taxes are payable in the UK and in certain other jurisdictions on the exercise or vesting of awards. Provision is made for such taxes based on the intrinsic value of the relevant awards at the balance sheet date so as to accrue for the taxes payable over the vesting period of the awards. Shares held by employee benefit trusts Financial statements The Group provides finance to two trusts to purchase the Company’s ordinary shares in order to meet its obligations under its share-based compensation plans. When the trusts purchase such shares, the cost of the shares is debited to equity and subsequent sales or transfers of the shares by the trusts are accounted for within equity. Treasury shares Treasury shares comprise the Company’s ordinary shares that have been purchased under the Company’s share buyback programme and have not been subsequently sold, transferred or cancelled. Purchases made under the programme are off market and are effected by way of contingent forward share purchase contracts with third-party brokers. On inception of each tranche, a liability is recognised for the maximum cost of the shares to be purchased under the tranche and there is a corresponding debit to retained earnings. On intermediate and final settlement of purchases with the broker, the cost of the shares purchased is credited to retained earnings and debited to treasury shares within equity. On final settlement, any remaining balance of the liability is credited back to retained earnings. Subsequent sales, transfers or cancellations of treasury shares by the Company are accounted for within equity. Critical accounting judgements and key sources of estimation uncertainty The preparation of financial statements requires management to make judgements and estimates that affect the reported amount of assets and liabilities at the date of the financial statements and the reported amount of income and expenses during the reporting period. Critical judgements in applying accounting policies Critical judgements are the judgements, apart from those involving estimations, that management has made that have had the most significant effect on amounts included in the consolidated financial statements. Product development costs Product development costs are capitalised from the time when the technical feasibility and commercial viability of the product can be demonstrated. Management is therefore required to make judgements about the technical feasibility of the product based on engineering studies and the commercial viability of the product based on expectations concerning the marketability of the product, the product’s useful life and the extent of future demand from customers. Uncertain tax treatments Uncertainty may exist concerning the tax treatment of a specific item or group of items because of, for example, uncertainty as to the meaning of tax law or to the applicability of tax law to a particular transaction or circumstance, the determination of appropriate arm’s length pricing in accordance with OECD transfer pricing principles or because the amount of current and deferred tax depends on the results of an ongoing or future examination of previously filed tax returns by the tax authorities. Where such an uncertainty exists, management is required to exercise its judgement in forming its expectation as to the likely outcome of the examination of the uncertain tax treatment by the relevant tax authorities. Due to the complexity of tax laws and their interpretation, the amount ultimately agreed with the tax authorities may differ materially from the amount of current and deferred tax recognised in the consolidated financial statements. Accordingly, the resolution of uncertain tax treatments in future periods may give rise to adjustments to the amounts of current and deferred tax assets and liabilities that may have a material consequential effect on the income tax expense recognised in future periods. Key sources of estimation uncertainty Key sources of estimation uncertainty are those that have a significant risk of resulting in a material adjustment to the carrying amount of assets and liabilities within the next financial year. Management considers that there are no key sources of estimation uncertainty underlying the measurement of the carrying amount of assets and liabilities recognised as at 31 December 2019. 127 Financial statements Dialog Semiconductor Plc Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued 3. Licensing and asset transfer agreement Summary of the transaction On 11 October 2018, we announced that we had entered into an agreement with Apple Inc. (“Apple”) to license our power management technologies and to transfer to Apple certain assets and over 300 employees from our design centres in the UK, Germany and Italy. Following receipt of the necessary regulatory approvals and satisfaction of the other closing conditions, the transaction closed on 8 April 2019. Apple paid Dialog US$300,000 in respect of the licensing arrangements and asset transfers. Pursuant to the agreement, Dialog granted to Apple: –– a perpetual licence over Dialog’s Power Management IP as it existed at the closing date; and –– an effective licence over certain of Dialog’s IP as it existed at the closing date and is developed for a period of at least four years thereafter. Continuation of the effective licence beyond the initial four-year period is contingent on Apple’s purchases from Dialog exceeding a specified level in successive preceding 12-month periods. While there was no transfer of legal ownership of the licensed IP rights, a relatively small number of patents were included in the business assets transferred to Apple. Following completion of the licensing and asset transfer agreement, Apple made an interest-free prepayment to Dialog of US$300,000. On initial recognition, we measured the prepayment at its fair value of US$288,584. We considered that the resulting “below market element” of the prepayment of US$11,416 represented additional consideration in respect of the licensing arrangements and asset transfers. We allocated the consideration received in respect of the licensing and asset transfer arrangements as follows: US$000 Fair value at closing date Licensing arrangements: – Perpetual IP licence 145,750 – Effective IP licence 136,400 Design centre businesses 29,266 Total fair value 311,416 Consideration Cash received 300,000 Below market element of prepayment 11,416 Total consideration 311,416 We measured the fair value of the perpetual IP licence using the excess earnings method, whereby it represented the present value of the estimated future profits that were foregone by Dialog by licensing our existing Power Management IP. We measured the fair value of the effective IP licence using the relief from royalty method, whereby it represented the present value of the estimated royalties that would have been payable by Apple over the term of the licence for the use of Dialog’s IP in developing future generations of their products. We measured the fair value of the design centre businesses as the present value of their estimated future cash flows based on applicable transfer prices. We incurred transaction costs totalling US$23,851 in relation to the agreement with Apple, of which US$16,064 was incurred during 2019 (within general and administrative expenses). 128 Annual report and accounts 2019 3. Licensing and asset transfer agreement continued Subsequent accounting for the transaction Licensing arrangements We consider that the perpetual IP licence granted Apple a “right to use” the related IP. We therefore recognised the consideration of US$145,750 allocated to the perpetual licence as revenue on the closing date. We consider that the effective IP licence granted Apple a “right to access” the related IP. We are therefore recognising the consideration of US$136,400 allocated to the effective licence as revenue over the four-year period following the closing date. We are amortising the deferred revenue in proportion to the present value of the cash flows that supported the fair value of the effective licence at the closing date. During 2019, we recognised revenue of US$18,484 in relation to the effective licence. Transfer of design centre businesses We recognised a gain of US$15,898 on the transfer of the design centre businesses (within other operating income) that was calculated as follows: US$000 Carrying amount of assets transferred Cash and cash equivalents 1,452 Property, plant and equipment – owned 13,824 Financial statements Property, plant and equipment – leased 4,287 Patents 224 Other assets 369 Total assets transferred 20,156 Carrying amount of associated liabilities Trade and other payables 161 Income tax payables 119 Lease liabilities 4,440 Provisions 1,326 Other liabilities 1,051 Total liabilities transferred 7,097 Net assets transferred 13,059 Currency translation loss transferred from equity 309 Gain on transfer of design centre businesses 15,898 Consideration received 29,266 Prepayment agreement It is intended that the US$300,000 prepayment will be recouped by Apple against amounts payable to Dialog for the purchase of certain of our products over the three-year period ending on 31 March 2022. Settlement of the prepayment is scheduled to take place in quarterly instalments in arrears such that US$200,000 is settled in the first year and US$50,000 is settled in each of the second and third years. During each quarter, Apple will settle our invoices on its normal payment terms. If, on a recoupment date, there is a shortfall of invoices outstanding against the scheduled recoupment amount, Apple may require us to settle the shortfall in cash or may permit us to carry forward the shortfall for recoupment in the subsequent quarter. In July 2019, the first quarterly instalment of US$50,000 was settled by recoupment by Apple against invoices outstanding totalling US$29,655 and a balancing cash payment by Dialog of US$20,345. In October 2019, the second quarterly instalment of US$50,000 was settled wholly by recoupment against invoices. As at 31 December 2019, the principal amount of the prepayment outstanding was US$200,000. We account for the prepayment as a financial liability measured at amortised cost. As at 31 December 2019, the carrying amount of the liability was US$194,467. During 2019, we recognised an interest expense of US$5,884 in relation to the prepayment. As a condition of the prepayment, we put in place a reducing letter of credit in favour of Apple for the outstanding principal amount. During 2019, we incurred related commitment fees of US$1,070 (within interest expense). 129 Financial statements Dialog Semiconductor Plc Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued 4. Business combinations Year ended 31 December 2019 Acquisition of Creative Chips GmbH On 31 October 2019, we completed the acquisition of 100% of the equity interests in Creative Chips GmbH, a supplier of integrated circuits (“ICs”) to the Industrial Internet of Things (“IIoT”) market. Headquartered near Frankfurt, Germany, with an additional design centre in Dresden, Germany, Creative Chips has a growing IC business supplying a broad portfolio of industrial ethernet and other mixed-signal products to manufacturers of industrial and building automation systems. Creative Chips has also developed a range of highly complementary standard IO-Link IC products, driving broader connectivity in the Industry 4.0 revolution. We acquired Creative Chips for US$80,000 on a cashand debt-free basis. Additional consideration of up to US$23,000 may be payable contingent on Creative Chips’ performance against revenue targets for 2020 and 2021. On completion, we paid initial consideration of US$83,722 in cash, including US$3,722 in respect of Creative Chips’ estimated cash, debt and working capital levels on completion. In February 2020, we paid a purchase price adjustment of US$84 to the sellers reflecting Creative Chips’ actual cash, debt and working capital levels on completion. We paid US$15,070 of the initial consideration into an escrow fund that was available to settle any valid claims that we may have made in relation to the representations, warranties and indemnities that were provided to us by the sellers. Contingent consideration is payable in two instalments: the first instalment of up to US$11,500 may be payable in early 2021 based on Creative Chips’ revenue for 2020 and the second instalment of up to US$11,500 may be payable in early 2022 based on Creative Chips’ revenue for 2021. At the acquisition date, we estimated that the amount of the first instalment will be in the range US$nil to US$10,210 and that the amount of the second instalment will be in the range US$nil to US$7,475. Using the expected value method, we estimated that the fair value of the contingent consideration at the acquisition date was US$6,517 (net of discounting of US$2,130). We recognised goodwill of US$32,124 on the acquisition of Creative Chips that is principally attributable to the benefits expected to be derived from the growth potential of the IIoT market, the assembled workforce and the broadening of Dialog’s customer base for its own mixed-signal business. None of the goodwill is deductible for tax purposes. Acquisition of FCI Inc. On 31 May 2019, we completed the acquisition of 100% of the equity interests in Silicon Motion Technology Corporation’s Mobile Communications product group, branded as FCI. FCI is based near Seoul, South Korea and is a leading supplier of Mobile TV SoCs and Low Power Wi-Fi SoCs. During the fourth quarter of 2018, FCI began ramping production of its first Ultra-Low-Power Wi-Fi SoC that is designed to meet the demands of battery powered IoT devices, providing direct internet connectivity. FCI is being integrated into our Connectivity & Audio operating segment where we plan to combine its Ultra-Low-Power WiFi technology with our own Bluetooth® low energy chips and modules, principally to enhance our IoT offerings. We acquired FCI for US$45,000 on a cashand debt-free basis. On completion, we paid consideration of US$53,884 in cash, including US$8,884 (net of US$271 transaction tax withheld) in respect of FCI’s cash, debt and estimated working capital on completion. We paid the withheld transaction tax to the Korean tax authority during the third quarter of 2019. We paid US$5,400 of the consideration into an escrow fund that is available to settle any valid claims that we may make in relation to the representations, warranties and indemnities that were provided to us by the seller. We estimate that a purchase price adjustment of US$203 will be payable by the seller, reflecting FCI’s actual working capital on completion. We recognised goodwill of US$9,929 on the acquisition of FCI that is principally attributable to the benefits expected to be derived from the development of new technology and product offerings by FCI in the future, the assembled workforce and the opportunities to cross-sell FCI’s products to Dialog’s customers. None of the goodwill is deductible for tax purposes. 130 Annual report and accounts 2019 4. Business combinations continued Year ended 31 December 2019 continued Assets acquired and liabilities assumed We have allocated the purchase consideration to the identifiable assets and liabilities of Creative Chips and FCI and goodwill as follows: Creative Chips FCI Total US$000 US$000 US$000 Assets acquired Cash and cash equivalents 7,328 9,562 16,890 Trade and other receivables 2,235 1,791 4,026 Inventories 4,578 4,347 8,925 Intangible assets 51,278 34,396 85,674 Property, plant and equipment – owned 11,993 872 12,865 Property, plant and equipment – leased – 762 762 Other assets 1,058 1,098 2,156 Total assets acquired 78,470 52,828 131,298 Liabilities assumed Financial statements Trade and other payables 1,260 2,385 3,645 Net defined benefit liability – 771 771 Deferred tax liabilities 15,974 3,597 19,571 Other liabilities 3,037 2,052 5,089 Total liabilities 20,271 8,805 29,076 Net identifiable assets acquired 58,199 44,023 102,222 Goodwill arising on acquisition 32,124 9,929 42,053 Consideration 90,323 53,952 144,275 Purchase consideration was satisfied by: Cash paid on completion 83,722 54,155 137,877 Purchase price adjustment 84 (203) (119) Initial consideration 83,806 53,952 137,758 Contingent consideration 6,517 – 6,517 Consideration 90,323 53,952 144,275 Trade and other receivables were expected to be collected at their gross contractual amounts. Identifiable intangible assets acquired comprised customer relationships, developed technology and know-how and trade names. During 2019, Creative Chips contributed US$2,312 to the Group’s revenue and a loss after tax of US$521 and FCI contributed US$10,495 to the Group’s revenue and a loss after tax of US$3,116. If these businesses had been acquired on 1 January 2019, we estimate that the Group’s revenue for 2019 would have been US$26,428 higher at US$1,592,667 and its net income US$2,051 lower at US$299,401. During 2019, we incurred transaction costs of US$4,040 in relation to the acquisition of Creative Chips and FCI (included within general and administrative expenses). Consideration payable for Silego Technology Inc. We acquired Silego in November 2017. Deferred consideration On completion of the acquisition, unvested employee options were converted into deferred cash rights and the fair value of those rights was apportioned between a deferred consideration element and a future compensation element. During 2019, we paid US$2,089 in settlement of vested deferred consideration and recognised a credit of US$116 to profit or loss in respect of forfeitures. As at 31 December 2019, we held a liability of US$979 in relation to the remaining deferred consideration that is payable over the period to March 2021. Contingent consideration Contingent consideration of up to US$30,400 was payable for the acquisition of Silego in two instalments based on Silego’s revenues for 2017 and 2018. In February 2019, we paid US$16,729 in settlement of the amount of the second instalment that was attributable to the shares and vested options acquired and attributed the balance of the first instalment of US$1,144 to the deferred cash rights. 131 Financial statements Dialog Semiconductor Plc Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued 4. Business combinations continued Year ended 31 December 2018 Consideration payable for Silego Technology Inc. Purchase price adjustment During 2018, we paid a purchase price adjustment of US$692 following the agreement with the vendors of Silego’s cash, debt and working capital levels on completion. Deferred consideration During 2018, we paid US$2,788 in settlement of vested deferred consideration and recognised a credit of US$204 to profit or loss in respect of forfeitures. Contingent consideration Contingent consideration of up to US$30,400 was payable for the acquisition of Silego in two instalments based on Silego’s revenues for 2017 and 2018. Silego’s actual revenue for 2017 confirmed that the first instalment of the contingent consideration of US$10,000 was payable in full. In February 2018, we paid US$9,360 in settlement of the amount of the first instalment that was attributable to the shares and vested options acquired and attributed the balance of the first instalment of US$640 to the deferred cash rights. Silego’s actual revenue for 2018 showed that US$17,874 was payable in settlement of the second instalment. Since Silego’s actual revenue for 2018 was lower than our initial estimate, we recognised a credit of US$878 to profit or loss on remeasurement of the fair value of the contingent consideration. Year ended 31 December 2017 Acquisition of Silego Technology Inc. On 1 November 2017, we completed the acquisition of 100% of the voting equity interests in Silego, the leading provider of Configurable Mixed-Signal ICs (“CMICs”). Silego’s CMICs integrate multiple analog, logic and discrete component functionalities into a single chip. Silego’s intuitive CMIC software interface allows customers to easily configure these functions and prototype a custom IC within hours and offers considerable flexibility in design. Silego’s technology enables manufacturers to reduce board space, simplify their supply chain and reduce time-to-market. Our acquisition of Silego will complement our business by increasing our content at existing customers and expanding our customer base. Silego’s broad product portfolio will strengthen our presence in a number of markets, including the IoT, computing, industrial and automotive markets. We acquired Silego for US$276,000 on a cashand debt-free basis, subject to adjustments for cash, debt and working capital. Additional consideration of up to US$30,400 was payable contingent on Silego’s revenues for 2017 and 2018. We acquired all of Silego’s outstanding common and preferred shares, all “in the money” vested, outstanding, unexercised employee options over common shares and all “in the money” outstanding preferred share warrants. On completion, we paid initial consideration of US$290,508 in cash, including US$22,527 in respect of Silego’s estimated cash, debt and working capital levels on completion. We estimated that we would pay a purchase price adjustment of US$692 reflecting Silego’s actual cash, debt and working capital levels on completion. We paid US$34,500 of the initial consideration into an escrow fund that was available to settle any valid claims that we may have made in relation to the representations, warranties and indemnities that were provided to us by the sellers. On completion, all “in the money” outstanding, unvested employee options over common shares were converted into and became the right to receive cash payments comprising a pro-rata share of the initial purchase price less their respective exercise prices, purchase price adjustments and any payments of contingent consideration. Such rights are subject to the vesting schedule and other terms (including a service condition) that governed the options that they replaced. We estimated that the acquisition date fair value of the rights was US$11,545, of which US$6,655 was attributable to employee service rendered before the acquisition date and therefore represents deferred consideration. We are recognising the balance of US$4,890, less an allowance for expected and actual forfeitures, as compensation expense on a straight-line basis over the remaining vesting period of the rights. In November 2017, we paid US$371 in relation to the accelerated vesting of the deferred cash rights in accordance with employee change of control arrangements. Contingent consideration was payable in two instalments: the first instalment of up to US$10,000 based on Silego’s revenue for 2017 and the second instalment of up to US$20,400 based on Silego’s revenue for 2018. At the acquisition date, we expected that the first instalment would accrue in full and that the amount of the second instalment would be in the range US$11,652 to US$20,400. Using the expected value method, we estimated that the acquisition date fair value of the contingent consideration attributable to the shares and vested options acquired was US$23,273 (net of discounting of US$2,974). 132 Annual report and accounts 2019 4. Business combinations continued Year ended 31 December 2017 continued Assets acquired and liabilities assumed We allocated the purchase consideration to the identifiable assets and liabilities of Silego and goodwill as follows: US$000 Assets acquired Cash and cash equivalents 32,439 Trade and other receivables 9,957 Inventories 13,866 Intangible assets 122,156 Property, plant and equipment – owned 1,481 Deferred tax assets 12,907 Other assets 1,484 Total assets acquired 194,290 Liabilities assumed Trade and other payables 15,586 Financial statements Provisions 157 Deferred tax liabilities 41,484 Other liabilities 6,700 Total liabilities 63,927 Net identifiable assets acquired 130,363 Goodwill arising on acquisition 190,765 Consideration 321,128 Purchase consideration was satisfied by: Cash paid on completion 290,508 Purchase price adjustment 692 Initial consideration 291,200 Deferred consideration 6,655 Contingent consideration 23,273 Consideration 321,128 Trade and other receivables were expected to be collected at their gross contractual amounts. Identifiable intangible assets acquired comprised customer relationships, developed technology and know-how and the GreenPAK™ trade name. Deferred tax assets recognised mainly represented tax loss carryforwards. Goodwill recognised on the acquisition of Silego is attributable to the further development of technology and know-how by the business in the future, the assembled workforce and future sales to new customers for its products. None of the goodwill is deductible for tax purposes. We incurred transaction costs of US$4,439 in relation to the acquisition of Silego (included within general and administrative expenses). 133 Financial statements Dialog Semiconductor Plc Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued 4. Business combinations continued Year ended 31 December 2017 continued LED backlight business On 15 November 2017, we purchased ams AG’s LED backlight technology and product portfolio for US$9,500 in cash. As part of the transaction, we also acquired related intellectual property rights. Assets acquired We allocated the purchase consideration to the identifiable assets of the business and goodwill as follows: US$000 Assets acquired Inventories 234 Intangible assets 5,400 Total identifiable assets acquired 5,634 Goodwill arising on acquisition 3,866 Consideration 9,500 Identifiable intangible assets acquired comprised customer relationships and developed technology. None of the goodwill is deductible for tax purposes. We incurred transaction costs of US$100 in relation to the acquisition of this business (included in general and administrative expenses). Cash flows in relation to business combinations During the years ended 31 December 2019, 2018 and 2017, the net cash outflow on the purchase of businesses was as follows: 2019 2018 2017 US$000 US$000 US$000 Initial consideration 137,877 – 300,008 Purchase price adjustment – 692 – Deferred consideration 2,089 2,788 371 Contingent consideration 16,730 9,360 – Consideration paid 156,696 12,840 300,379 Cash and cash equivalents acquired (16,890) – (32,439) Cash outflow on purchase of businesses, net of cash acquired 139,806 12,840 267,940 Contingent consideration paid in 2019 and 2018 in relation to the acquisition of Silego was below our estimate at the acquisition date and is therefore included within cash flows from investing activities. 134 Annual report and accounts 2019 5. Deconsolidation of Dyna Image Corporation We acquired a 45.7% interest in Dyna Image Corporation (“Dyna Image”) in June 2015. We accounted for the investment as a subsidiary because we were granted a call option to acquire the shares that we did not already own in Dyna Image that we considered gave us the power to direct the activities of the entity that will significantly affect its returns. Subsequent to our initial investment, Dyna Image suffered quality problems that resulted in the loss of a major customer and gave rise to sustained operating losses. By the end of 2016, Dyna Image was in need of additional funding to enable it to pursue its recovery plan. We agreed with our fellow shareholders to seek a new investor in the business and, in the meantime, that certain of the existing shareholders would inject new capital into the business. In January 2017, we participated in a new issue of shares by Dyna Image. We invested the equivalent of US$1,893. As a result of the share issue, our shareholding in Dyna Image increased from 45.7% to 48.5%. We reflected the increase in our shareholding as a transfer of US$361 within equity from non-controlling interests to retained earnings. During 2017, Dyna Image continued to seek new investment but its operating results fell considerably short of the level envisaged in its recovery plan. In December 2017, negotiations with a potential investor were terminated and the shareholders in Dyna Image decided that it should be gradually wound down in a way that will safeguard the interests of its creditors. As a consequence of this decision, we recognised impairment losses totalling US$4,327 in relation to the intangible assets and property, plant and equipment held by Dyna Image (within other operating expenses). We also derecognised deferred tax assets of US$543 that were no Financial statements longer considered to be recoverable. We did not consider that the carrying amount of the goodwill attributable to Dyna Image was impaired because it was covered by the recoverable amounts of the operating segments to which it had been allocated on acquisition. We also reviewed the call option over the non-controlling interests in Dyna Image. We observed that the fair value of each share in Dyna Image has fallen significantly and irretrievably below the minimum exercise price of the option. We concluded that there existed an economic barrier to our exercising the option prior to its expiry in June 2018 that was so great that the option no longer gives us power over Dyna Image. We considered that this loss of control occurred during December 2017 and therefore we deconsolidated Dyna Image with effect from 31 December 2017. At the end of 2017, we recognised a loss of US$5,597 on the deconsolidation of Dyna Image that was determined as follows: US$000 Assets derecognised Cash and cash equivalents 420 Trade and other receivables 1,428 Inventories 3,542 Other current assets 426 Goodwill 6,907 Total assets derecognised 12,723 Liabilities derecognised Trade and other payables 2,958 Other current liabilities 590 Total liabilities derecognised 3,548 Net assets derecognised 9,175 Currency translation gain transferred from equity (1,144) Non-controlling interests (1,334) Fair value of remaining interest (1,100) Loss on deconsolidation 5,597 We included the loss on deconsolidation of Dyna Image within other operating expenses. As explained in note 22, we sold our shareholding in Dyna Image in November 2019. 135 Financial statements Dialog Semiconductor Plc Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued 6. Operating profit a) Revenue Revenue may be analysed as follows: 2019 2018 2017 US$000 US$000 US$000 Sale of products: – Sales direct to end-customers 1,045,774 1,144,371 1,156,451 – Sales to distributors 355,348 296,598 195,364 Total sale of products 1,401,122 1,440,969 1,351,815 Licensing agreements with Apple: – Perpetual licence fee 145,750 – – – Effective licence fee 18,484 – – Royalties 883 1,169 1,026 Total revenue 1,566,239 1,442,138 1,352,841 b) Operating expenses Operating profit is stated after charging/(crediting): 2019 2018 2017 US$000 US$000 US$000 Cost of inventories included in cost of sales 675,713 702,078 663,216 Write-down of inventories 11,133 5,643 1,288 Research and development costs expensed as incurred 320,127 331,550 310,201 Government incentives (deducted from research and development expenses) (6,577) (5,241) (7,188) Depreciation of property, plant and equipment – owned 27,155 31,455 30,807 Depreciation of property, plant and equipment – leased 12,456 – – Loss on disposal of fixed assets 4,444 923 591 Amortisation of intangible assets 52,233 49,130 41,969 Impairment of intangible assets 3,130 – – Lease rentals 993 12,450 10,153 Integration costs 2,434 2,765 2,305 Acquisition-related costs 4,040 – 4,539 Corporate transaction costs 16,064 11,346 – Amortisation of intangible assets was allocated as follows: 2019 2018 2017 US$000 US$000 US$000 Cost of sales 550 592 701 Selling and marketing expenses 16,226 14,231 9,126 General and administrative expenses 2,377 2,348 2,170 Research and development expenses 33,080 31,959 29,972 Total 52,233 49,130 41,969 136 Annual report and accounts 2019 6. Operating profit continued c) Other operating income/(expense) Other operating income/(expense) comprised: 2019 2018 2017 US$000 US$000 US$000 Revenue from research and development contracts 21,872 2,298 346 Gain on transfer of design centre businesses (note 3) 15,898 – – Rental and other income 1,635 – – Change in estimate of contingent consideration – 878 – Impairment of non-current assets held by Dyna Image – – (4,327) Loss on deconsolidation of Dyna Image – – (5,597) Total 39,405 3,176 (9,578) 7. Employee information Employment costs were as follows: Financial statements 2019 2018 2017 US$000 US$000 US$000 Wages and salaries 226,428 224,908 200,222 Social security costs 32,573 31,051 26,457 Share-based compensation 46,539 41,153 35,319 Compensation element of deferred cash rights 1,204 1,481 1,409 Defined contribution pension costs 11,529 12,609 11,058 Defined benefit pension costs 369 – – Total 318,642 311,202 274,465 Pension costs from defined contribution plans include costs for the state funded pension plan in Germany of US$2,819 (2018: US$3,853; 2017: US$3,599). Compensation of key management personnel is set out in note 36. The average number of persons employed by the Group (including the Executive Director) during the year, analysed by category, was as follows: 2019 2018 2017 Research and development 1,211 1,371 1,256 Production 211 184 172 Sales and marketing 296 272 239 Administration 203 200 185 Information technology 60 59 55 Total 1,981 2,086 1,907 8. Auditor’s remuneration Fees payable to the Company’s auditor, Deloitte LLP, were as follows: 2019 2018 2017 US$000 US$000 US$000 Assurance services Audit of the parent company and consolidated financial statements 755 629 560 Audit of subsidiaries 530 423 370 Other assurance services 158 150 202 Other services Services related to corporate finance transactions 225 – 478 Total 1,668 1,202 1,610 137 Financial statements Dialog Semiconductor Plc Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued 9. Finance income/(expense) a) Interest income 2019 2018 2017 US$000 US$000 US$000 Interest on bank deposits 9,919 5,619 3,556 Interest on money market funds 11,910 4,189 2,423 Other interest income 121 75 16 Total interest income 21,950 9,883 5,995 b) Interest expense 2019 2018 2017 US$000 US$000 US$000 Interest on lease liabilities (2,956) – – Interest on finance lease and hire purchase obligations – (50) (289) Facility commitment fees (1,506) (452) (194) Amortisation of deferred facility arrangement costs (295) (315) (151) Unwinding of discount on prepayment received (note 3) (5,884) – – Unwinding of discount on contingent consideration (note 4) (464) (2,220) (436) Unwinding of discount on provisions (note 25) (60) (70) (60) Other interest expense (144) (27) (172) Total interest expense (11,309) (3,134) (1,302) c) Other finance (expense)/income 2019 2018 2017 US$000 US$000 US$000 Currency translation (loss)/gain, net (5,655) (994) 1,695 Fair value (loss)/gain on Energous warrants (note 19) (1,434) (10,853) 941 Amortisation of gain on initial measurement of Energous warrants (note 19) 1,584 1,584 776 Net interest expense on the net defined benefit liability (note 26) (14) – – Proceeds from sale of Arctic Sand shares 63 – (177) Fair value loss on Dyna Image call option – – (142) Total other finance (expense)/income (5,456) (10,263) 3,093 138 Annual report and accounts 2019 10. Income taxes Income tax recognised in profit or loss The components of the Group’s income tax expense for the year were as follows: 2019 2018 2017 US$000 US$000 US$000 Current tax United Kingdom (41,617) (15,896) 379 Foreign (45,523) (33,633) (33,884) Deferred tax United Kingdom (90) (321) 1,315 Foreign 3,644 (5,431) 6,821 Income tax expense (83,586) (55,281) (25,369) 2019 2018 2017 US$000 US$000 US$000 Current tax Financial statements Current income tax charge (88,252) (45,587) (38,643) Adjustments in respect of prior years 1,112 (3,942) 5,138 Deferred tax Origination and reversal of temporary differences 4,953 (4,663) (6,353) Recognition of previously unrecognised deferred tax assets – – 9,655 Movement in deferred tax balances following intra-group reorganisation (1,921) (1,920) 1,977 Movement in deferred tax balances following US tax rate change – – 6,658 Adjustments in respect of prior years 522 831 (3,801) Income tax expense (83,586) (55,281) (25,369) Factors affecting the income tax expense for the year The Group’s income tax expense differed from the amount that would have resulted from applying the statutory rate of corporation tax in the UK to the Group’s profit before income taxes for the reasons shown in the following table: 2019 2018 2017 US$000 US$000 US$000 Profit before income taxes 385,038 196,193 194,803 Income tax expense at UK corporation tax rate of 19.0% (2018: 19.0%; 2017: 19.25%) (73,157) (37,277) (37,500) Effect of different foreign tax rates (10,595) (6,656) (12,569) Non-taxable income: – Other non-taxable income 2,493 39 – Non-deductible expenses: – Transaction costs (2,395) (1,131) – – Non-deductible portion of share-based compensation (10,559) (9,336) (9,396) – Other non-deductible expenses (2,996) (3,232) (2,764) Tax benefit from share-based compensation 6,494 1,997 3,658 Tax impact of deconsolidation of Dyna Image Corporation – – (1,938) Tax benefit from Intellectual Property and research and development incentives 10,323 8,633 6,576 Write-down of previously recognised deferred tax assets – (1,015) (543) Benefit from previously unrecognised deferred tax assets 82 70 9,655 Additional tax losses for which no deferred tax asset is recognised (127) (117) (568) Movement in deferred tax balances following intra-group reorganisation (1,921) (1,920) 1,977 Differences arising from different functional and tax currencies (2,536) (2,065) 9,576 Tax benefit from US tax rate change – – 6,658 Adjustments in respect of prior years 1,635 (3,111) 1,337 Other items (327) (160) 472 Income tax expense (83,586) (55,281) (25,369) 139 Financial statements Dialog Semiconductor Plc Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued 10. Income taxes continued Factors affecting the income tax expense for the year continued The Group’s income tax expense for 2019 was US$83,586 (2018: US$55,281; 2017: US$25,369), an effective tax rate for the year of 21.7% (2018: 28.2%; 2017: 13.0%). Our effective tax rate is sensitive to the geographic mix of the Group’s profits and reflects a combination of different tax rates in different countries, in particular higher tax rates in Germany and, in 2017, in the US. Our effective tax rate can also be affected by changes in tax legislation and tax rates, the impact of acquisitions, disposals and restructurings and currency exchange rate movements, which give rise to tax effects where an entity’s functional currency differs from the currency in which it is required to calculate and pay income taxes. Our effective tax rate is reduced because a large proportion of the Group’s research and development activities are undertaken in the UK and the Netherlands and we are therefore able to benefit from the UK and Netherlands tax regimes that provide incentives for innovation. Factors affecting the income tax expense in future years Factors that may affect the Group’s future tax expense include foreign exchange rate movements, changes in tax legislation and tax rates, the impact of acquisitions, disposals and restructurings and the resolution of open issues with tax authorities. Incentives for innovation available under the UK and Netherlands tax regimes are limited by reference to the location of the Group’s research and development activities. Given the global nature of the Group’s research and development activities, this may also affect the Group’s future tax expense. We maintain provisions for potential tax liabilities where uncertainty exists concerning the amount of current or deferred tax recognised. Due to the complexity of tax laws and their interpretation, the amounts ultimately agreed with tax authorities in respect of these uncertainties may differ materially from the amounts provided and may therefore affect the Group’s income tax expense in future periods. In January 2016, we received a termination fee of US$137,300 from Atmel Corporation, Inc. following their termination of the merger agreement that existed between us. We obtained tax advice that the termination fee should not be taxable in the UK and therefore did not recognise a tax expense in relation to the termination fee. Examination of the tax treatment of the termination fee by the UK tax authority is ongoing. We maintain our position that no tax liability should arise in respect of the termination fee. International tax reform remains a key focus of attention, including the OECD’s Base Erosion & Profit Shifting project, the EU’s action plan for fair and efficient corporate taxation and US tax reform. We continually monitor developments and assess the potential impact for Dialog of such initiatives. We have concluded that current or announced future tax law changes as a result of such initiatives give rise to no changes to the principal risks for Dialog. Income tax recognised outside profit or loss Income tax recognised in other comprehensive income was as follows: 2019 2018 2017 US$000 US$000 US$000 Items that may be reclassified to profit or loss Currency translation differences on foreign operations: – Current tax (expense)/credit (91) (78) 180 Equity investments: – Deferred tax credit/(expense) – 1,015 (1,015) Cash flow hedges: – Current tax (expense)/credit (1,065) 2,376 (3,149) Remeasurements of net defined benefit liability: – Deferred tax credit 146 – – Income tax (charged)/credited to other comprehensive income (1,010) 3,313 (3,984) Income tax recognised directly in equity was as follows: 2019 2018 2017 US$000 US$000 US$000 Share-based compensation: – Current tax credit 2,183 281 1,859 – Deferred tax credit/(expense) 3,257 64 (839) Total tax credited directly to equity 5,440 345 1,020 140 Annual report and accounts 2019 10. Income taxes continued Deferred tax Analysis of movement in the net deferred tax balance during the year: US$000 As at 31 December 2017 3,434 Currency translation differences (77) Recognised in income (5,752) Recognised in other comprehensive income 1,015 Recognised in equity 64 Transfer to current tax (608) As at 31 December 2018 (1,924) Currency translation differences (330) Recognised in income 3,554 Recognised in other comprehensive income 146 Recognised in equity 3,297 Financial statements Acquisition of businesses (19,571) As at 31 December 2019 (14,828) Deferred income tax assets and liabilities, before offset of balances within countries, are as follows: Amount (charged)/credited Net recognised deferred tax to profit or loss (liability)/asset As at As at 31 December 31 December 2019 2018 2019 2018 US$000 US$000 US$000 US$000 Temporary differences relating to intangible assets 3,668 3,388 (43,507) (23,526) Temporary differences relating to share-based compensation 1,626 (580) 11,252 6,369 Other temporary differences 636 (1,077) 1,276 (473) Deferred taxes in relation to tax credits 532 1,899 13,893 11,622 Net operating loss carryforwards (2,908) (9,382) 2,258 4,084 Total 3,554 (5,752) (14,828) (1,924) Deferred tax assets and liabilities are analysed in the consolidated balance sheet, after offset of balances within countries, as follows: As at As at 31 December 31 December 2019 2018 US$000 US$000 Deferred tax assets 8,242 6,034 Deferred tax liabilities (23,070) (7,958) Recognised net deferred tax liabilities (14,828) (1,924) Tax loss carryforwards, temporary differences and net deferred tax assets are summarised as follows: As at 31 December 2019 As at 31 December 2018 Tax loss Temporary Net deferred tax Tax loss Temporary Net deferred tax carryforwards differences (liabilities)/assets carryforwards differences assets/(liabilities) US$000 US$000 US$000 US$000 US$000 US$000 Germany – (51,657) (15,621) – (1,015) (288) United Kingdom 9,546 30,886 5,063 10,016 13,048 2,173 Netherlands – 1,111 1,111 7,269 960 2,014 USA – (48,627) 1,942 15,459 (76,739) (2,227) Other 24,593 (19,788) (7,323) 12,649 4,466 (3,596) Total 34,139 (88,075) (14,828) 45,393 (59,280) (1,924) In assessing whether the deferred tax assets can be used, management considers the probability that some, or all, of the deferred tax assets will not be realised. The utilisation of deferred tax assets depends upon generating taxable profit during the periods in which those temporary differences become deductible or tax-loss carryforwards can be utilised. Management considers the reversal of deferred tax liabilities, projected future taxable income, benefits that could be realised from available tax planning strategies and other positive and negative factors in making this assessment. 141 Financial statements Dialog Semiconductor Plc Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued 10. Income taxes continued Deferred tax continued As at 31 December 2019, deferred tax assets were not recognised for tax loss carryforwards of US$23,873 (2018: US$27,330) and tax credits of US$10,490 (2018: US$5,781) in respect of which there is expected to be insufficient future taxable profit and therefore utilisation is not probable. Unrecognised tax loss carryforwards of US$9,546 (2018: US$10,069) have no expiration date. Tax losses in Taiwan of US$14,327 (2018: US$12,649) expire between 2024 and 2028. The tax credits expire between 2020 and 2038. As at 31 December 2019, the aggregate amount of temporary differences associated with undistributed earnings of subsidiaries for which deferred tax liabilities have not been recognised was US$111,542 (2018: US$62,703). We do not expect a liability to arise in respect of these differences because the Company is in a position to control the timing of the reversal of the temporary differences and it is probable that such differences will not reverse in the foreseeable future. 11. Earnings per share Basic earnings per share amounts are calculated by dividing the profit for the year attributable to holders of ordinary shares in the Company by the weighted average number of ordinary shares outstanding during the year. Diluted earnings per share amounts are calculated by dividing the profit attributable to holders of ordinary shares in the Company by the weighted average number of ordinary shares outstanding during the year plus the weighted average number of ordinary shares that would be issued if all the securities or other contracts to issue ordinary shares were exercised. Profit attributable to shareholders in the Company and the weighted average number of ordinary shares for calculating basic and diluted earnings per share were calculated as follows: 2019 2018 2017 US$000 US$000 US$000 Profit attributable to shareholders in the Company For calculating basic and diluted earnings per share 301,452 139,799 173,916 Weighted average number of ordinary shares Shares in issue at the beginning of the period 76,382,139 76,382,139 77,865,955 Effect on average number of shares during the period: – Shares issued to employee benefit trust – – 2,350,000 – Cancellation of treasury shares – – (2,329,093) Average number of shares in issue during the period 76,382,139 76,382,139 77,886,862 Deduct: – Average number of shares held by employee benefit trusts (1,759,457) (2,422,787) (2,061,901) – Average number of treasury shares (2,726,643) – (1,352,891) For calculating basic earnings per share 71,896,039 73,959,352 74,472,070 Add: – Average number of dilutive share options and awards 4,284,926 3,695,214 4,139,123 For calculating diluted earnings per share 76,180,965 77,654,566 78,611,193 Earnings per share (US$) Basic 4.19 1.89 2.34 Diluted 3.96 1.80 2.21 During 2019, the average number of anti-dilutive share options outstanding was 486,253 (2018: 830,300; 2017: 375,041). 142 Annual report and accounts 2019 12. Cash and cash equivalents Cash and cash equivalents were as follows: As at As at 31 December 31 December 2019 2018 US$000 US$000 Cash at bank 21,056 3,920 Cash held by employee benefit trusts 6,049 2,829 Cash available from receivables financing facilities 65,439 96,099 Bank deposits 350,000 325,000 Money market funds 582,000 250,000 Total 1,024,544 677,848 Short-term deposits are made for varying periods of up to three months. As at 31 December 2019 and 2018, no amounts had been drawn from the cash available from receivables financing facilities. 13. Trade and other receivables Financial statements Trade and other receivables were as follows: As at As at 31 December 31 December 2019 2018 US$000 US$000 Trade accounts receivable 122,528 98,234 Retentions under receivables financing facilities 11,551 16,280 Total 134,079 114,514 Trade accounts receivable are generally on 30 to 60-day credit terms. Trade accounts receivable are regularly reviewed for collectability and an allowance is established for doubtful accounts against which receivables are written-off when they are no longer considered to be collectable. Movements on the allowance for doubtful accounts were as follows: 2019 2018 US$000 US$000 At the beginning of the year 21 101 Acquisition of businesses 18 – Allowances charged to profit or loss 40 – Utilised for write-offs – (68) Releases credited to profit or loss – (12) At the end of the year 79 21 14. Inventories Inventories were as follows: As at As at 31 December 31 December 2019 2018 US$000 US$000 Raw materials 31,938 36,579 Work in progress 44,097 48,416 Finished goods 46,589 64,741 Total 122,624 149,736 143 Financial statements Dialog Semiconductor Plc Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued 15. Goodwill Movements on goodwill during the years ended 31 December 2019 and 2018 were as follows: 2019 2018 US$000 US$000 At the beginning of the year 439,508 439,508 Acquisition of FCI (note 4) 9,929 – Acquisition of Creative Chips (note 4) 32,124 – Currency translation differences 573 – At the end of the year 482,134 439,508 Goodwill is monitored by management at the level of the Group’s operating segments and is therefore allocated at that level. As explained in note 35, the Group made a number of organisational changes with effect from the beginning of the second quarter of 2019. Management concluded that these changes did not cause any reallocation of goodwill between operating segments. Immediately following the reorganisation, therefore, goodwill continued to be allocated to the Custom Mixed Signal business group (formerly Mobile Systems), Advanced Mixed Signal and Connectivity & Audio. Goodwill of US$9,929 recognised on the acquisition of FCI in May 2019 was allocated to Connectivity & Audio. We acquired Creative Chips in October 2019. Creative Chips was designated as our new Industrial Mixed Signal business unit to which the goodwill of US$32,124 recognised on the acquisition is allocated. As at 31 December 2019 and 2018, goodwill was allocated to operating segments as follows: 2019 2018 US$000 US$000 Custom Mixed Signal business group 107,163 107,163 Industrial Mixed Signal business unit 32,449 – Connectivity & Audio 98,375 88,198 Advanced Mixed Signal 244,147 244,147 Total 482,134 439,508 Impairment tests carried out during the year Goodwill is tested for impairment annually and whenever there is an indication that it may be impaired. Goodwill is tested for impairment at the level of the operating segments to which it is allocated. Goodwill is impaired if the carrying amount of the operating segment to which it is allocated exceeds its recoverable amount. In conducting impairment tests of goodwill during 2019, we measured the recoverable amount of each operating segment to which goodwill is allocated on a value in use basis. Value in use represents the present value of the future cash flows that we estimate will be generated by the assets allocated to each operating segment in their current use and condition. Expected future cash flows in the first three years were forecast based on the Group’s Strategic Plan 2020-2022. Except in the case of the Industrial Mixed Signal business unit, cash flows beyond the third year were estimated by applying a perpetuity growth factor to the forecast cash flow in the third year. We expect that the strong growth potential of the Industrial Mixed Signal business unit will take considerably longer than three years to be fully realised. We therefore based its expected future cash flows beyond the third year on profit forecasts for a further seven years made at the time of the acquisition of Creative Chips and applied a perpetuity growth factor to the forecast cash flow in the tenth year. We consider that the key assumptions used in determining value in use are the expected compound annual growth of revenue (“revenue CAGR”) during the forecast period, the perpetuity growth rate and the discount rate. Expected future revenue of each operating segment is based on external forecasts of the future volume of the end-markets for the operating segment’s products adjusted to reflect factors specific to the operating segment such as its customer base and available distribution channels, the possibility of new entrants to the market and future technological developments. Cash flows during the forecast period also reflect the cost of materials and other direct costs, research and development expenditure and selling, general and administrative expenses. We estimated the cost of materials and other direct and indirect costs based on current prices and market expectations of future price changes. We applied a perpetuity growth rate of 2% per annum in estimating the future cash flows of each operating segment in both 2019 and 2018, which we consider to be the long-term growth rate in the demand for the products of each operating segment in its end-markets. Discount rates applied to the cash flow projections were determined using a capital asset pricing model and reflected current market interest rates, relevant equity and size risk premiums and the risks specific to the operating segment concerned. Pre-tax discount rates used were as follows: 2019 2018 Pre-tax discount rate Custom Mixed Signal business group 13.1% 12.7% Industrial Mixed Signal business unit 19.1% n/a Advanced Mixed Signal 13.7% 13.5% Connectivity & Audio 13.9% 14.2% 144 Annual report and accounts 2019 15. Goodwill continued Impairment tests carried out during the year continued We did not recognise any goodwill impairment during 2019. With the exception of Industrial Mixed Signal, the recoverable amount of each operating segment to which goodwill is allocated was comfortably in excess of its carrying amount. Our calculations show that Industrial Mixed Signal’s recoverable amount exceeds its carrying amount by US$16.6 million. We consider that the recoverable amount is most sensitive to a change in the revenue CAGR over the forecast period. Our calculations reflect a revenue CAGR of 15.4% over the forecast period. Assuming all other assumptions remain unchanged, we estimate that the recoverable amount would equal the carrying amount if the revenue CAGR was to fall to 13.4% over the forecast period. 16. Other intangible assets Movements on other intangible assets during the years ended 31 December 2019 and 2018 were as follows: Acquired Purchased Product customer-related software, licences development intangible assets and other Patents assets Total US$000 US$000 US$000 US$000 US$000 Cost Financial statements As at 31 December 2017 172,875 79,789 20,441 181,893 454,998 Additions – 3,642 2,803 24,771 31,216 Reclassifications – (105) 105 – – Transfer to assets held for sale – (3) (293) – (296) Disposals – (693) (58) (123) (874) Currency translation differences – (13) – – (13) As at 31 December 2018 172,875 82,617 22,998 206,541 485,031 Acquisition of businesses 56,012 4,075 (205) 25,792 85,674 Additions – 6,691 1,746 15,384 23,821 Reclassifications – 543 137 (680) – Disposals – (265) (1,099) (390) (1,754) Currency translation differences 798 223 9 581 1,611 As at 31 December 2019 229,685 93,884 23,586 247,228 594,383 Amortisation and impairment losses As at 31 December 2017 (49,452) (64,966) (9,803) (95,140) (219,361) Amortisation charge for the period (13,647) (6,015) (2,140) (27,328) (49,130) Transfer to assets held for sale – 3 78 – 81 Disposals – 680 33 103 816 Currency translation differences – 8 – – 8 As at 31 December 2018 (63,099) (70,290) (11,832) (122,365) (267,586) Amortisation charge for the year (15,524) (4,559) (2,246) (29,904) (52,233) Impairment – – – (3,130) (3,130) Disposals – 6 811 – 817 Currency translation differences (16) (138) (15) (14) (183) As at 31 December 2019 (78,639) (74,981) (13,282) (155,413) (322,315) Carrying amount As at 31 December 2018 109,776 12,327 11,166 84,176 217,445 As at 31 December 2019 151,046 18,903 10,304 91,815 272,068 145 Financial statements Dialog Semiconductor Plc Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued 17. Property, plant and equipment – owned Movements on owned property, plant and equipment during the years ended 31 December 2019 and 2018 were as follows: Leasehold Office and other Construction in Buildings Test equipment improvements equipment progress Total US$000 US$000 US$000 US$000 US$000 US$000 Cost As at 31 December 2017 – 172,486 23,627 92,457 4,579 293,149 Additions – 8,250 4,050 12,107 1,738 26,145 Reclassifications – 187 2,008 1,335 (3,530) – Transfer to assets held for sale – (3,080) (6,371) (10,085) (30) (19,566) Disposals – (699) (405) (1,401) (686) (3,191) Currency translation differences – (109) (115) (524) – (748) As at 31 December 2018 – 177,035 22,794 93,889 2,071 295,789 Acquisition of businesses 6,356 4,181 215 2,113 – 12,865 Additions – 5,660 1,583 5,566 1,366 14,175 Reclassifications – 40 134 989 (1,163) – Disposals – (4,861) (915) (5,350) (1,113) (12,239) Currency translation differences 75 131 – 154 – 360 As at 31 December 2019 6,431 182,186 23,811 97,361 1,161 310,950 Depreciation and impairment losses As at 31 December 2017 – (130,819) (14,571) (63,889) – (209,279) Depreciation charge for the period – (14,989) (3,363) (13,103) – (31,455) Transfer to assets held for sale – 1,023 1,202 6,572 – 8,797 Disposals – 577 400 1,075 – 2,052 Currency translation differences – 127 42 286 – 455 As at 31 December 2018 – (144,081) (16,290) (69,059) – (229,430) Depreciation charge for the period (35) (12,268) (3,335) (11,517) – (27,155) Disposals – 3,716 129 3,120 – 6,965 Currency translation differences (10) (100) 7 (89) – (192) As at 31 December 2019 (45) (152,733) (19,489) (77,545) – (249,812) Carrying amount As at 31 December 2018 – 32,954 6,504 24,830 2,071 66,359 As at 31 December 2019 6,386 29,453 4,322 19,816 1,161 61,138 146 Annual report and accounts 2019 18. Property, plant and equipment – leased Background With the exception of two properties recently acquired with Creative Chips, the Group leases all of its product development and office facilities in the various countries in which it operates. Property leases that have been entered into by the Group contain varied terms and conditions reflecting its business requirements and local market practices. Property leases are typically for a fixed term of approximately five years but may include extension or early termination options to provide operational flexibility. Property rentals are typically fixed on inception of the lease but may be subject to review to reflect changes in market rental rates. The Group also leases product testing and office equipment. At the beginning of 2019, the Group had a contract with a supplier that contained an embedded lease over certain production equipment. During 2019, the contract was terminated by mutual agreement. At the time of termination, the carrying amount of the related right-of-use asset was US$9,956 and the lease liability was US$10,851. Accordingly, the Group recognised a gain on termination of US$895 in profit or loss. Right-of-use assets Movements on right-of-use assets in relation to leased property, plant and equipment during the year ended 31 December 2019 were as follows: Financial statements Office and other Buildings equipment Total US$000 US$000 US$000 Cost As at 31 December 2018 – – – Adjustment on initial application of IFRS 16 (note 37) 52,873 13,517 66,390 Adjusted balance as at 1 January 2019 52,873 13,517 66,390 Acquisition of businesses 757 5 762 Additions 1,015 426 1,441 Disposals (4,287) – (4,287) Terminations (105) (13,139) (13,244) Other changes in lease payments (285) – (285) Currency translation differences 52 1 53 As at 31 December 2019 50,020 810 50,830 Accumulated depreciation As at 1 January 2019 – – – Depreciation charge for the period (9,181) (3,275) (12,456) Terminations 47 3,037 3,084 Currency translation differences (35) – (35) As at 31 December 2019 (9,169) (238) (9,407) Carrying amount As at 31 December 2019 40,851 572 41,423 147 Financial statements Dialog Semiconductor Plc Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued 18. Property, plant and equipment – leased continued Lease liabilities Movements on the lease liabilities recognised in relation to leased property, plant and equipment during the year ended 31 December 2019 were as follows: US$000 As at 31 December 2018 – Adjustment on initial application of IFRS 16 (note 37) 67,631 Adjusted balance as at 1 January 2019 67,631 Acquisition of businesses 699 Additions 1,411 Disposals (4,440) Terminations (10,845) Other changes in lease payments (280) Lease payments during the period (14,042) Interest expense for the period 2,956 Currency translation differences (46) As at 31 December 2019 43,044 Lease liabilities as at 31 December 2019 were presented in the balance sheet as follows: US$000 Amounts falling due: – Within one year 8,972 – After more than one year 34,072 Total lease liabilities 43,044 During 2019, expenses recognised in relation to lease payments that were not included in the measurement of lease liabilities were as follows: US$000 Expense relating to short-term leases (167) Expense relating to leases of low value assets (180) Expense relating to variable lease payments not included in lease liabilities (343) Cash outflow on lease payments During 2019, the total cash outflow on lease payments was as follows: US$000 Lease payments included in lease liabilities (14,042) Variable lease payments not included on lease liabilities (328) Lease payments on short-term leases (167) Lease payments on leases of low value assets (180) Total cash outflow on lease payments (14,717) 148 Annual report and accounts 2019 19. Investments Investments were as follows: As at As at 31 December 31 December 2019 2018 US$000 US$000 Equity investments: – Energous shares 3,079 10,073 Derivative financial instruments: – Energous warrants 31 1,465 Total investments 3,110 11,538 In November 2016, we entered into a strategic alliance with Energous Corporation (“Energous”) the developer of WattUp®, a wire-free charging technology. At that time, we subscribed for 763,552 common shares in Energous and were granted warrants to purchase up to 763,552 common shares that were exercisable in full or in part on a cashless basis at any time between May 2017 and November 2019. We initially recognised the warrants at their grant date fair value of US$4,695 and an equivalent deferred credit within non-current liabilities. We will amortise the deferred credit to profit or loss in relation to the royalties that may be payable for the use of Energous’ Intellectual Property over the initial seven-year term of the strategic alliance. Amortisation of the deferred credit has not yet commenced. Financial statements On 5 July 2017, we subscribed for a further 976,139 common shares in Energous at a cost of US$15,000 and were granted a second tranche of warrants to purchase up to 654,013 common shares that are exercisable in full or in part on a cashless basis at any time between January 2018 and July 2020. We initially recognised the second tranche of the warrants at their grant date fair value of US$4,753 and an equivalent deferred credit within non-current liabilities. We are amortising the deferred credit to profit or loss over the three-year period from the grant date to the expiry of the warrants. During 2019, we recognised a fair value loss on the shares of US$6,994 (2018: loss of US$23,764; 2017: gain of US$5,971) in other comprehensive income and recognised a fair value loss of US$1,434 (2018: loss of US$10,853; 2017: gain of US$941) on the warrants in profit or loss (as other finance (expense)/income). Also during 2019, we recognised a credit of US$1,584 (2018: US$1,584; 2017: US$776) in profit or loss on the amortisation of the fair value on initial recognition of the second tranche of the warrants (as other finance income). 20. Other financial assets Other financial assets were as follows: As at As at 31 December 31 December 2019 2018 US$000 US$000 Current Currency derivatives in designated hedging relationships 1,056 202 Non-current Rental and other deposits 2,202 1,807 Total 3,258 2,009 21. Other assets Other assets were as follows: As at As at 31 December 31 December 2019 2018 US$000 US$000 Current Prepaid expenses 7,775 6,720 Other tax receivables 3,369 1,787 Deferred facility arrangement costs 231 250 Other assets 11,157 9,549 Total current 22,532 18,306 Non-current Deferred facility arrangement costs 780 398 Total 23,312 18,704 149 Financial statements Dialog Semiconductor Plc Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued 22. Assets classified as held for sale Assets and associated liabilities transferred to Apple On 11 October 2018, we entered into an agreement with Apple Inc. (“Apple”), inter alia, to transfer to Apple certain patents and design centre assets. Details of the agreement are set out in note 3. On entering into the agreement, we reclassified as held for sale the assets that were to be transferred to Apple and the liabilities that were directly associated with them. As at 31 December 2018, the carrying amounts of the assets held for sale and directly associated liabilities were as follows: As at As at 31 December 31 December 2019 2018 US$000 US$000 Assets held for sale Other current assets – 311 Other intangible assets – 215 Property, plant and equipment – owned – 10,769 Total assets – 11,295 Liabilities directly associated with assets held for sale Trade and other payables – 100 Income taxes payable – 63 Other current liabilities – 1,721 Provisions – 1,283 Total liabilities – 3,167 Completion of the transaction with Apple took place on 8 April 2019. Investment in associate As at 31 December 2018, the Group held a 48.5% interest in Dyna Image Corporation (“Dyna Image”). As explained in note 5, Dyna Image was formerly accounted for as a subsidiary but was deconsolidated with effect from 31 December 2017. On deconsolidation, the Group’s investment in Dyna Image was measured at its fair value of US$1,100, which equated to the Group’s share of the carrying amount of Dyna Image’s net assets. Dyna Image was thereafter accounted for as an associate using the equity method. During 2018, Dyna Image continued to make losses. We recognised our share of those losses in profit or loss until the carrying amount of our investment was reduced to nil during the fourth quarter of 2018. On 7 December 2018, we entered into an agreement to dispose of our shareholding in Dyna Image and reclassified our investment in Dyna Image as an asset held for sale. We obtained the necessary regulatory approvals but the purchaser was unable to complete the transaction and the sale agreement was terminated on 2 September 2019. We immediately entered into a new agreement to sell our shareholding to another purchaser for a nominal amount. Since the carrying amount of our investment in Dyna Image had already been reduced to nil, no additional loss was recognised on completion of the sale in November 2019. 23. Trade and other payables Trade and other payables were as follows: As at As at 31 December 31 December 2019 2018 US$000 US$000 Trade accounts payable 88,148 105,039 Other payables 16,472 17,101 Total 104,620 122,140 Trade accounts payable are non-interest bearing and are normally settled on 30 to 60-day terms. Other payables are non-interest bearing and have a term of less than three months. 150 Annual report and accounts 2019 24. Other financial liabilities Other financial liabilities were as follows: As at As at 31 December 31 December 2019 2018 US$000 US$000 Current Currency derivatives in designated hedging relationships 1,324 6,080 Currency derivatives hedging share buyback obligation – 301 Prepayment from Apple 121,217 – Bank loans 794 – Deferred consideration 1,038 2,332 Contingent consideration – 16,414 Share buyback obligation – 171,763 Total current 124,373 196,890 Non-current Financial statements Prepayment from Apple 73,250 – Bank loans 1,022 – Deferred consideration 25 841 Contingent consideration 6,666 – Total non-current 80,963 841 Total 205,336 197,731 Changes in liabilities arising from financing activities were as follows: Derivatives Prepayment Share buyback hedging share from Apple Lease liabilities obligation buyback (note 3) Bank loans (note 18) (note 29) obligation Total US$000 US$000 US$000 US$000 US$000 US$000 As at 31 December 2016 – – 5,934 61,073 3,064 70,071 Changes from financing cash flows – – (4,283) (125,035) 1,227 (128,091) Changes in fair value – – – – (4,291) (4,291) Other movements – – – 60,938 – 60,938 Currency translation differences – – – 3,024 – 3,024 As at 31 December 2017 – – 1,651 – – 1,651 Changes from financing cash flows – – (1,651) – – (1,651) Changes in fair value – – – – 301 301 Other movements – – – 171,173 – 171,173 Currency translation differences – – – 590 – 590 As at 31 December 2018 – – – 171,763 301 172,064 Adjustment on initial application of IFRS 16 – – 67,631 – – 67,631 Acquisition of businesses – 1,952 699 – – 2,651 Disposal of businesses – – (4,440) – – (4,440) Changes from financing cash flows 268,239 (156) (11,086) (251,774) (11,625) (6,402) Recoupment against trade receivables (79,656) – – – – (79,656) Changes in fair value – – – – 11,324 11,324 Other movements 5,884 – (9,714) 86,718 – 82,888 Currency translation differences – 20 (46) (6,708) – (6,734) As at 31 December 2019 194,467 1,816 43,044 – – 239,326 151 Financial statements Dialog Semiconductor Plc Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued 25. Provisions Movements on provisions were as follows: Product Leasehold Legal Contractual Other warranties property claims severance provisions Total US$000 US$000 US$000 US$000 US$000 US$000 As at 31 December 2017 1,445 3,625 750 1,054 325 7,199 Additions charged to profit or loss 2,629 462 394 1,985 – 5,470 Utilised during the year (1,361) (808) (220) (107) (308) (2,804) Releases credited to profit or loss – (121) (30) – – (151) Unwinding of discount – 70 – – – 70 Transfer to held for sale – – – (1,283) – (1,283) Currency translation differences – (106) – (47) (17) (170) As at 31 December 2018 2,713 3,122 894 1,602 – 8,331 Additions charged to profit or loss 923 228 600 700 – 2,451 Utilised during the year (2,377) – (44) (18) – (2,439) Releases credited to profit or loss – (263) (850) – – (1,113) Unwinding of discount – 60 – – – 60 Currency translation differences – 10 – (36) – (26) As at 31 December 2019 1,259 3,157 600 2,248 – 7,264 Provisions are presented in the Group’s balance sheet as follows: As at As at 31 December 31 December 2019 2018 US$000 US$000 Current liabilities 4,162 5,253 Non-current liabilities 3,102 3,078 Total 7,264 8,331 Product warranties Dialog provides contractual product warranties under which it guarantees the performance of its products. Product warranty provisions are based on historical warranty data and are expected to be utilised within one year of the balance sheet date. Leasehold property Leasehold property provisions include dilapidation provisions for the costs of restoring leasehold properties to their original condition at the end of the lease and provisions for onerous leases. Leasehold property provisions will be utilised over the remaining terms of the relevant leases, which expire up to five years from the balance sheet date. Contractual severance Provision is made for contractual severance payments that are payable to employees in certain countries when they leave the Group’s employment. 152 Annual report and accounts 2019 26. Pension schemes a) Defined contribution plans The Group operates defined contribution pension schemes in most of the countries in which it operates. Contributions payable by the Group to the plans amounted to US$8,710 (2018: US$8,756; 2017: US$7,458). As at 31 December 2019, the Group had not paid over to the plans contributions due amounting to US$1,567 (2018: US$1,596; 2017: US$2,408). All contributions due for the period were paid over subsequent to the balance sheet date. Pension costs also include payments to the state funded pension plan in Germany in the amount of US$2,819 (2018: US$3,853; 2017: US$3,599). b) Defined benefit plan Prior to the acquisition of FCI in May 2019, the Group had no defined benefit plans. FCI operates a funded defined benefit pension plan in South Korea, that provides participating employees with a lump sum benefit on retirement that is based on the individual’s career average salary, annual bonus and average allowance and length of service. The net defined benefit liability recognised in the Group’s balance sheet is based on an actuarial valuation of the plan that was carried out by an independent qualified actuary as at 31 December 2019. Analysis of the net defined benefit liability recognised in the balance sheet: As at As at 31 December 31 December 2019 2018 US$000 US$000 Financial statements Present value of benefit obligation (4,601) – Fair value of plan assets 2,874 – Net defined benefit liability (1,727) − Amounts recognised in profit or loss and other comprehensive income: 2019 2018 2017 US$000 US$000 US$000 Amounts recognised in profit or loss Current service cost (369) – – Net interest expense (14) – – Net expense in the income statement (383) – – Amounts recognised in other comprehensive income Actuarial losses: – Changes in demographic assumptions (505) – – – Changes in financial assumptions (54) – – – Experience adjustments (56) – – Return on plan assets lower than interest income (51) – – Net measurement expense in other comprehensive income (666) − − Changes in the benefit obligation and the plan assets during 2019 were as follows: Benefit obligation Plan assets Present value Fair value US$000 US$000 As at 31 December 2018 – – Acquisition of FCI (note 4) (4,452) 3,681 Current service cost (369) – Interest (expense)/income (82) 68 Benefits paid out 912 (912) Benefits paid directly by/refunded to employer 126 7 Actuarial losses (615) (51) Currency translation differences (121) 81 As at 31 December 2019 (4,601) 2,874 153 Financial statements Dialog Semiconductor Plc Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued 26. Pension schemes continued b) Defined benefit plan continued As at 31 December 2019, the weighted-average duration of the defined benefit obligation was 8.48 years. The principal financial assumptions used in measuring the defined benefit obligation were as follows: Discount rate 2.6% Rate of increase in salaries 4.0% Mortality and leaver assumptions are based on tables published by the Korea Insurance Development Institute in April 2019. The fair value of the plan assets may be analysed as follows: US$000 Cash and term deposits 2,780 Equity-linked bonds 94 Total 2,874 27. Other liabilities Other liabilities were as follows: As at As at 31 December 31 December 2019 2018 US$000 US$000 Current Obligations for personnel and social expenses 46,805 33,291 Advances received in relation to research and development contracts 301 2,801 Deferred income 14,004 17,124 Deferred IP revenue 35,708 – Other liabilities 15,986 5,021 Total current 112,804 58,237 Non-current Deferred royalty credits (note 19) 4,695 4,695 Deferred gain on initial measurement of warrants (note 19) 809 2,392 Deferred IP revenue 82,209 – Accrued expenses 100 207 Other liabilities 231 1,578 Total non-current 88,044 8,872 Total 200,848 67,109 154 Annual report and accounts 2019 28. Share capital and reserves a) Ordinary shares As at 31 December 2019, 2018 and 2017, the authorised share capital of the Company comprised 104,311,860 ordinary shares with a nominal value of £0.10 per share. The number of allotted and fully paid ordinary shares was as follows: Nominal value Number of shares US$000 As at 31 December 2016 77,865,955 14,402 Shares issued to employee benefit trust 3,000,000 373 Cancellation of treasury shares (4,483,816) (571) As at 31 December 2017, 2018 and 2019 76,382,139 14,204 Ordinary shareholders have no entitlement to share in the profits of the Company except for dividends that may be declared and in the event of the Company’s liquidation. Ordinary shareholders have the right to attend, and vote at, general meetings of the Company or to appoint a proxy to attend and vote at such meetings on their behalf. Ordinary shareholders have one vote for every share held. Financial statements b) Share premium account The share premium account represents the difference between the nominal value of shares issued and the fair value of the consideration received. The share premium account is not distributable but may be used for certain purposes specified by United Kingdom law, including to write off expenses on any issue of shares and to pay up fully paid bonus shares. c) Other reserves Currency translation reserve The currency translation reserve represents the cumulative gains and losses recognised on the translation into US dollars of the Group’s net investments in foreign operations. Fair value reserve The fair value reserve comprises gains and losses recognised on equity investments that are measured at fair value through other comprehensive income. Cash flow hedge reserve The cash flow hedge reserve represents the cumulative gains and losses on effective cash flow hedging instruments that will be recycled to profit or loss on the occurrence of the hedged cash flows. Treasury shares Treasury shares are shares purchased under the Company’s share buyback programme. During 2019, the Company purchased 7,076,747 of its ordinary shares with an aggregate nominal value of £707,675, representing 9.3% of the Company’s issued share capital as at 31 December 2019. Details of the purchases made under the programme are set out in note 29. Capital redemption reserve On 23 June 2017, the Company cancelled all of the treasury shares that it held following completion of the third tranche of the share buyback programme. On cancellation, the total cost of the treasury shares was transferred from treasury shares and set against retained earnings and the nominal value of the shares cancelled of US$571 was transferred from share capital to a non-distributable capital redemption reserve. 155 Financial statements Dialog Semiconductor Plc Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued 28. Share capital and reserves continued c) Other reserves continued Movements on other reserves were as follows: Capital Currency redemption translation Fair value Hedging Treasury reserve reserve reserve reserve shares Total US$000 US$000 US$000 US$000 US$000 US$000 As at 31 December 2016 – (4,400) 2,866 (7,560) (61,472) (70,566) Other comprehensive income/(expense): – Currency translation differences on foreign operations – 1,665 – – – 1,665 – Gain transferred to profit or loss on deconsolidation of Dyna Image – (1,144) – – – (1,144) – Fair value loss on available-for-sale investments – – 5,971 – – 5,971 – Cash flow hedges: Fair value gain recognised on effective hedges – – – 16,433 – 16,433 Fair value loss transferred to profit or loss – – – (441) – (441) – Income tax credit/(expense) – 180 (1,015) (3,149) – (3,984) Other changes in equity: – Purchase of own shares into treasury – – – – (125,050) (125,050) – Cancellation of treasury shares 571 – – – 186,522 187,093 As at 31 December 2017 571 (3,699) 7,822 5,283 – 9,977 Other comprehensive income/(expense): – Currency translation differences on foreign operations – (527) – – – (527) – Fair value loss on equity investments – – (23,764) – – (23,764) – Cash flow hedges: Fair value loss recognised on effective hedges – – – (10,075) – (10,075) Fair value gain transferred to profit or loss – – – (2,343) – (2,343) – Income tax (expense)/credit – (78) 1,015 2,376 – 3,313 As at 31 December 2018 571 (4,304) (14,927) (4,759) – (23,419) Other comprehensive income/(expense): – Currency translation differences on foreign operations – 3,019 – – – 3,019 – Fair value loss on equity investments – – (6,994) – – (6,994) – Cash flow hedges: Fair value loss recognised on effective hedges – – – (3,941) – (3,941) Fair value loss transferred to profit or loss – – – 9,549 – 9,549 – Income tax expense – (91) – (1,065) – (1,156) Other changes in equity: – Purchase of own shares into treasury – – – – (251,787) (251,787) As at 31 December 2019 571 (1,376) (21,921) (216) (251,787) (274,729) 156 Annual report and accounts 2019 29. Share buyback programme Background We initiated our share buyback programme in May 2016. By the end of 2019, the Company had purchased 11,560,563 of its own ordinary shares at a total cost of US$438,309 (including transaction costs of US$3,209), of which 4,483,816 shares had been cancelled and 7,076,747 shares were held in treasury. Shareholder authority for a share buyback programme was first granted to the Directors at the Company’s 2016 AGM and has been renewed at each subsequent AGM. At the Company’s 2019 AGM, the Directors were granted a new authority to purchase up to 11,457,321 of the Company’s ordinary shares, representing approximately 15% of the issued ordinary share capital of the Company as at 27 March 2019. Such authority shall (unless previously renewed, varied or revoked) expire on the day before the next AGM of the Company or on 30 June 2020, whichever is the earlier. Purchases made under the share buyback programme are off-market and are effected by way of contingent forward purchase contracts entered into with brokers. Barclays, Goldman Sachs, HSBC or Merrill Lynch may be appointed as brokers for purchases under the 2019 AGM authority. Shares purchased during the period Year ended 31 December 2017 On 8 November 2016, the Company announced details of the second tranche of the 2016 Buyback Programme under which it committed to Financial statements purchase shares with a minimum cost of €56.25 million and a maximum cost of €75.0 million. We completed the first intermediate settlement of the second tranche on 30 December 2016. We completed the second intermediate settlement on 9 February 2017 and final settlement and conclusion of the tranche took place on 17 February 2017. In the second and final settlements, we purchased 977,456 shares at a cost of €38.8 million (US$41,385) and incurred transaction costs of US$270. On conclusion of the tranche, we credited back to retained earnings the remaining US$19,961 of the obligation to purchase shares initially recognised and related transaction costs. On 27 February 2017, the Company announced details of the third tranche of the 2016 Buyback Programme under which it committed to purchase shares with a minimum cost of €56.25 million and a maximum cost of €75.0 million. We initially recognised a debit to retained earnings amounting to US$79,407, which comprised the maximum obligation to purchase shares of €75.0 million (US$79,012) and related transaction costs. We made intermediate settlements of the third tranche on 25 April 2017 and 2 June 2017 and final settlement and conclusion of the tranche took place on 23 June 2017. We purchased 1,700,610 shares under the third tranche at a cost of €74.9 million (US$82,862) and incurred transaction costs of US$533. On conclusion of the third tranche, we credited back to earnings the remaining US$71 of the obligation to purchase shares initially recognised and related transaction costs. During 2017, we showed a credit to retained earnings of US$3,024, which mirrored the loss recognised in profit or loss on the translation into US dollars of the Euro-denominated liability that existed in relation to shares that were purchased during the period. We hedge the currency translation exposure on outstanding liabilities to purchase shares using currency forwards and swaps. After taking into account hedging, we recognised a net currency translation loss of US$237 in profit or loss in relation to liabilities to purchase shares outstanding during 2017. Year ended 31 December 2018 On 6 November 2018, the Company announced details of the first tranche of the 2018 Buyback Programme under which it committed to purchase shares with a minimum cost of €100.0 million and a maximum cost of €150.0 million. On initiation of this tranche, we recognised a liability and a corresponding debit to retained earnings of €150.0 million (US$171,173) in respect of the maximum obligation to purchase shares. We also debited transaction costs incurred of US$14 to retained earnings. We were not required to make any intermediate settlements in relation to this tranche during 2018. After taking into account hedging, we recognised a net currency translation loss of US$898 in profit or loss in relation to liabilities to purchase shares outstanding during 2018. Year ended 31 December 2019 On 31 May 2019, we completed the first and final settlement of the outstanding tranche of the 2018 Buyback Programme. We purchased 3,941,852 shares at a cost of €100.0 million (US$111,470) and incurred transaction costs of US$625. On conclusion of the tranche, we credited back to retained earnings the remaining US$55,847 of the obligation to purchase shares initially recognised. No further tranches were initiated under the 2018 Buyback Programme. On 5 June 2019, we announced details of the first tranche of the 2019 Buyback Programme under which the Company committed to purchase shares with a minimum cost of €125.0 million and a maximum cost of €150.0 million. On initiation of this tranche, we recognised a liability and a corresponding debit to retained earnings of €150.0 million (US$168,915) in respect of the maximum obligation to purchase shares. We made intermediate settlements of this tranche on 19 September 2019 and 31 October 2019 and final settlement and conclusion of the tranche took place on 19 December 2019. We purchased 3,134,895 shares at a cost of €125.0 million (US$138,975) and incurred transaction costs of US$703. On conclusion of the tranche, we credited back to earnings the remaining US$27,679 of the obligation to purchase shares initially recognised. During 2019, we showed a debit to retained earnings of US$4,431, which mirrored the gain recognised in profit or loss on the translation into US dollars of the Euro-denominated liability that existed in relation to shares that were purchased during the period. After taking into account hedging, we recognised a net currency translation loss of US$4,616 in profit or loss in relation to liabilities to purchase shares outstanding during 2019. 157 Financial statements Dialog Semiconductor Plc Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued 29. Share buyback programme continued Movements on reserves Movements on reserves shown in the statement of changes in equity in relation to the share buyback programme are derived as follows: Retained earnings Treasury shares Currency Purchase of Share buyback translation shares into obligation differences treasury US$000 US$000 US$000 Year ended 31 December 2017 Obligation recognised (79,407) – – Settlements 121,223 3,024 (124,247) Transaction costs 803 – (803) Release of surplus obligations 19,965 – – Increase/(decrease) in equity 62,584 3,024 (125,050) Year ended 31 December 2018 Obligation recognised (171,187) – – Decrease in equity (171,187) – – Year ended 31 December 2019 Obligation recognised (170,243) – – Settlements 254,876 (4,431) (250,445) Transaction costs 1,342 – (1,342) Release of surplus obligations 83,530 – – Increase/(decrease) in equity 169,505 (4,431) (251,787) 30. Non-controlling interests Non-controlling interests related to Dyna Image Corporation (“Dyna Image”). As explained in note 5, Dyna Image was formerly accounted for as a subsidiary but was deconsolidated with effect from 31 December 2017. In January 2017, the Group’s ownership interest in Dyna Image increased from 45.7% to 48.5% and there was a corresponding decrease from 54.7% to 51.5% in the ownership interests held by non-controlling interests. Summarised financial information about Dyna Image before it ceased to be a subsidiary is presented below: 2019 2018 2017 US$000 US$000 US$000 Summary comprehensive loss Revenue – – 5,474 Expenses – – (17,870) Loss for the year – – (12,396) Loss attributable to owners of the Company – – (7,914) Loss attributable to the non-controlling interests – – (4,482) Loss for the year – – (12,396) Other comprehensive loss attributable to owners of the Company – – (7) Other comprehensive loss attributable to the non-controlling interests – – (7) Other comprehensive loss for the year – – (14) Total comprehensive loss attributable to owners of the Company – – (7,921) Total comprehensive loss attributable to the non-controlling interests – – (4,489) Total comprehensive loss for the year – – (12,410) Summary of cash flows Cash flow used for operating activities – – (4,769) Cash flow used for investing activities – – (47) Cash flow from financing activities – – 3,000 Net decrease in cash and cash equivalents – – (1,816) 158 Annual report and accounts 2019 31. Share-based compensation The Company operates a number of share-based compensation plans under which it grants options and awards over its ordinary shares to certain of the Group’s employees. a) Plans without performance conditions Stock Option Plan Shareholders approved the Stock Option Plan (“SOP”) at the Company’s 1998 AGM. Options granted under the SOP before 31 October 2006 vested over periods of one or five years from the grant date provided the participant remained in employment by the Group at the vesting date and, if unexercised, expired on the tenth anniversary of the grant date. Options granted after 31 October 2006 vest monthly over four years provided the participant remains in employment by the Group at the vesting date but may not be exercised until the first anniversary of the grant date and, if unexercised, expire on the seventh anniversary of the grant date. Unless otherwise determined by the Remuneration Committee, options granted under the SOP have an exercise price not less than the market price of the Company’s ordinary shares on the grant date. Employee Share Plan Shareholders approved the Employee Share Plan (“ESP”) at the Company’s 2013 AGM. The ESP operates alongside the SOP. Financial statements Options granted under the ESP vest over a three-year period with one third of each award vesting on the first, second and third anniversary of the grant date provided the participant remains in employment by the Group at the vesting date and, if unexercised, expire on the seventh anniversary of the grant date. Options granted under the ESP have a nominal exercise price. Fair value of awards The fair value of options granted under the ESP was measured using the Black-Scholes option pricing model. The weighted average fair value of options granted during the years ended 31 December 2019, 2018 and 2017 and the principal assumptions made in measuring those fair values were as follows: Grant in 2019 Grant in 2018 Grant in 2017 Weighted average fair value €41.63 €21.95 €33.31 Principal assumptions: – Share price on grant date €41.71 €22.06 €33.40 – Exercise price €0.09 €0.11 €0.10 – Expected volatility of the Company’s shares 45% 44% 42% – Expected option life 3 – 6 years 3 – 6 years 3 – 6 years – Dividend yield on the Company’s shares 0% 0% 0% – Risk-free interest rate (0.5)% (0.3)% (0.3)% Expected volatility was determined based on the historical volatility of the market price of the Company’s ordinary shares over the expected life of the options. 159 Financial statements Dialog Semiconductor Plc Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued 31. Share-based compensation continued b) Performance-based plans Executive Incentive Plan Shareholders approved the Executive Incentive Plan (“EIP”) at the Company’s 2010 AGM. Awards under the EIP vested three years from the grant date provided certain performance conditions were satisfied and the participant remained in employment by the Group at the end of the vesting period. a) Share price increase One quarter of each award accrued in equal annual instalments on the anniversary of grant date provided the market price of the Company’s ordinary shares on the relevant anniversary date exceeded the higher of the market price of the shares on the grant date and on any preceding anniversary date. Awards that had accrued vested and became exercisable on the third anniversary of the grant date. b) Group performance conditions Up to three-eighths of each award vested depending upon the compound annual growth of the Group’s revenue over the threeyear performance period. Up to three-eighths of each award vested depending on the compound annual growth of the Group’s EBIT (operating profit) over the three-year performance period. Even if the revenue and EBIT targets were met, however, the number of awards that vested was reduced by up to 20% if customer diversification targets were not also met. The EIP expired for the purpose of new awards in May 2015. Long-Term Incentive Plan Shareholders approved the Long-Term Incentive Plan (“LTIP”) at the Company’s 2015 AGM. The LTIP replaced the EIP. All employees are eligible to participate in the plan but in practice awards will be targeted at the Executive Director level and others in senior roles. Awards granted under the LTIP take the form of either a nil or nominal cost share option, a conditional share award, a market price share option or, in jurisdictions where it is not feasible to deliver shares to employees, a cash-settled award linked to the market value of the Company’s shares. Awards under the LTIP generally vest three years from the grant date provided certain performance conditions are satisfied and the participant remains in employment by the Group at the end of the vesting period. a) Total shareholder return (“TSR”) Up to one third of each award vests depending on the TSR on the Company’s ordinary shares relative to the TSR of the constituents of the S&P 1500 Select Semiconductor Index over the three-year performance period. If the TSR on the Company’s ordinary shares is negative over the vesting period, vesting is capped at one half of this element of the award irrespective of whether the TSR on the Company’s ordinary shares has exceeded the TSR of the constituents of the S&P 1500 Select Semiconductor Index. b) Group Performance Conditions Up to one half of each award vests depending upon the Group’s revenue in each year of the three-year performance period. Up to one half of each award vests depending on the Group’s underlying operating margin in each year of the three-year performance period. Notwithstanding the performance conditions, the Remuneration Committee may apply a downward adjustment to the number of awards that vest if it considers this to be necessary taking into account the Group’s financial performance and overall financial health. Fair value of awards The fair value of awards made under the EIP and the LTIP was measured using a variant of the Monte Carlo valuation model. The weighted average fair value of options granted during the years ended 31 December 2019, 2018 and 2017 and the principal assumptions made in measuring those fair values were as follows: Grant in 2019 Grant in 2018 Grant in 2017 Weighted average fair value €24.66 €23.23 €44.86 Principal assumptions: – Share price on grant date €27.10 €25.25 €50.32 – Exercise price €0.09 €0.09 €0.10 – Expected volatility of the Company’s shares 45% 44% 42% – Expected option life 6 years 6 years 6 years – Dividend yield on the Company’s shares 0% 0% 0% – Risk-free interest rate (0.5)% (0.3)% (0.3)% Expected volatility was determined based on the historical volatility of the market price of the Company’s ordinary shares over the expected life of the awards. 160 Annual report and accounts 2019 31. Share-based compensation continued c) Share options Movements in the total number of share options outstanding during the years ended 31 December 2019 and 2018 were as follows: 2019 2018 Weighted average Weighted average exercise price exercise price Options € Options € Outstanding at the beginning of the year 5,472,635 0.65 4,303,195 1.50 Granted 1,552,279 0.09 2,536,355 0.10 Exercised (1,802,547) 1.68 (1,010,647) 3.05 Forfeited (879,678) 0.12 (356,268) 0.19 Outstanding at the end of the year 4,342,689 0.13 5,472,635 0.65 Options exercisable at the end of the year 533,304 0.43 1,155,481 2.71 When share options were exercised during 2019, the weighted average of the Company’s share price was €36.97 (2018: €22.71). The weighted average contractual life and exercise price of share options outstanding as at 31 December 2019 and 2018 were as follows: Financial statements 2019 2018 Weighted average Weighted average remaining remaining Number contractual life Number contractual life Range of exercise prices outstanding (in years) outstanding (in years) €0.0 – 1.00 4,330,836 4.86 5,270,419 4.73 €1.00 – 8.00 – n/a – n/a €8.00 – 16.85 11,853 0.70 202,216 0.97 €0.00 – 16.85 4,342,689 4.85 5,472,635 4.59 d) Dialog shares held by employee benefit trusts The Company provides finance to two trusts to purchase its ordinary shares in order to meet its obligations under its share-based compensation plans. As at 31 December 2019, the trusts held 804,712 ordinary shares (2018: 2,607,259 ordinary shares). Movements in the number of shares held by the trusts during the years ended 31 December 2019 and 2018 were as follows: 2019 2018 Number of Cost Number of Cost shares US$000 shares US$000 At the beginning of the year 2,607,259 22,514 2,791,027 902 Purchase of shares in the market – – 826,879 21,786 Sale or transfer of shares (1,802,547) (381) (1,010,647) (174) At the end of the year 804,712 22,133 2,607,259 22,514 161 Financial statements Dialog Semiconductor Plc Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued 32. Commitments Software licence commitments Future minimum payments under software licences were as follows: 2019 2018 US$000 US$000 Within one year 20,761 25,616 Between one and two years 6,018 15,158 Between two and three years 3,299 3,900 Between three and four years 73 2,552 Between four and five years 15 75 Total minimum payments 30,166 47,301 During 2019, the Group recognised in profit or loss software licence fees of US$15,576 (2018: US$13,854; 2017: US$9,944). Capital commitments As at 31 December 2019, the Group has contractual commitments for the acquisition of property, plant and equipment of US$3,863 (2018: US$5,874) and for the acquisition of intangible assets of US$1,538 (2018: US$4,391). 33. Additional disclosures on financial instruments Analysis by class and category In the following tables, the carrying amounts of the financial assets and financial liabilities held by the Group as at 31 December 2019 and 2018 are analysed by class and category: As at 31 December 2019 At fair value At fair value At fair value through other Amortised through profit in designated comprehensive Net book cost or loss hedges income value Fair value US$000 US$000 US$000 US$000 US$000 US$000 Financial assets Cash and cash equivalents 1,024,544 – – – 1,024,544 1,024,544 Trade and other receivables 134,079 – – – 134,079 134,079 Energous shares – – – 3,079 3,079 3,079 Energous warrants – 31 – – 31 31 Other investments – 31 – 3,079 3,110 Currency derivatives – – 1,056 – 1,056 1,056 Rental and other deposits 2,202 – – – 2,202 2,202 Other financial assets 2,202 – 1,056 – 3,258 Total financial assets 1,160,825 31 1,056 3,079 1,164,991 Financial liabilities Trade and other payables (104,620) – – – (104,620) (104,620) Lease liabilities (43,044) – – – (43,044) (45,926) Prepayment from Apple (194,467) – – – (194,467) (196,278) Bank loans (1,816) – – – (1,816) (1,816) Currency derivatives – – (1,324) – (1,324) (1,324) Deferred consideration (1,063) – – – (1,063) (1,063) Contingent consideration – (6,666) – – (6,666) (6,666) Other financial liabilities (197,346) (6,666) (1,324) – (205,336) Total financial liabilities (345,010) (6,666) (1,324) – (353,000) Currency derivatives that are not in designated hedging relationships were held to hedge the currency translation exposure on the Euro‑denominated share buyback liability (note 29). 162 Annual report and accounts 2019 33. Additional disclosures on financial instruments continued Analysis by class and category continued As at 31 December 2018 At fair value At fair value At fair value through other Amortised through profit in designated comprehensive Net book cost or loss hedges income value Fair value US$000 US$000 US$000 US$000 US$000 US$000 Financial assets Cash and cash equivalents 677,848 – – – 677,848 677,848 Trade and other receivables 114,514 – – – 114,514 114,514 Energous shares – – – 10,073 10,073 10,073 Energous warrants – 1,465 – – 1,465 1,465 Other investments – 1,465 – 10,073 11,538 Currency derivatives – – 202 – 202 202 Rental and other deposits 1,807 – – – 1,807 1,807 Other financial assets 1,807 – 202 – 2,009 Financial statements Total financial assets 794,169 1,465 202 10,073 805,909 Financial liabilities Trade and other payables (122,140) – – – (122,140) (122,140) Currency derivatives – (301) (6,080) – (6,381) (6,381) Share buyback obligation (171,763) – – – (171,763) (171,763) Deferred consideration (3,173) – – – (3,173) (3,173) Contingent consideration – (16,414) – – (16,414) (16,414) Other financial liabilities (174,936) (16,715) (6,080) – (197,731) Total financial liabilities (297,076) (16,715) (6,080) – (319,871) Fair value measurement a) Financial instruments carried at fair value All financial instruments that are carried at fair value are revalued on a recurring basis. We have not chosen to designate any financial instruments at fair value through profit or loss on initial recognition. Details of our investment in the Energous shares and warrants are set out in note 19. We measured the fair value of these financial assets using the following methods and assumptions: –– Energous shares (listed on NASDAQ) – measured at the quoted bid price at the close of business on the balance sheet date; and –– Energous warrants – measured using a Black-Scholes valuation model based on the quoted bid price of Energous’ common shares and other inputs such as implied share price volatility that is modelled based on historical price data for Energous’ common shares. Fair value of currency derivatives represents the present value of the future contractual cash flows, which is estimated using observable spot exchange rates and by applying a discount rate that is based on the yield curves of the respective currencies and reflects the credit risk of the counterparties. Contingent consideration in respect of the recent acquisitions depends on the achievement of revenue targets. At the end of 2019, we measured the fair value of the contingent consideration payable for Creative Chips based on the expected value of a range of possible Creative Chip’s revenues for 2020 and 2021. At the end of 2018, we measured the fair value of the contingent consideration payable for Silego based on Silego’s actual revenues for 2017 and 2018. In the following table, the financial instruments that are carried at fair value are categorised into one of three levels in a fair value hierarchy according to the nature of the significant inputs to the valuation techniques that are used to determine their fair value as follows: –– Level 1 – Quoted (unadjusted) market prices in active markets for identical assets or liabilities; –– Level 2 – Inputs other than Level 1 that are observable either directly (as market prices) or indirectly (derived from market prices); and –– Level 3 – Unobservable inputs, such as those derived from internal models or using other valuation methods. 163 Financial statements Dialog Semiconductor Plc Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued 33. Additional disclosures on financial instruments continued Fair value measurement continued As at 31 December 2019 As at 31 December 2018 Level 1 Level 2 Level 3 Total Level 1 Level 2 Level 3 Total US$000 US$000 US$000 US$000 US$000 US$000 US$000 US$000 Financial assets carried at fair value Investments: – Energous shares 3,079 – – 3,079 10,073 – – 10,073 Derivative financial instruments: – Currency derivatives – 1,056 – 1,056 – 202 – 202 – Energous warrants – – 31 31 – – 1,465 1,465 Total financial assets carried at fair value 3,079 1,056 31 4,166 10,073 202 1,465 11,740 Financial liabilities carried at fair value Derivative financial instruments: – Currency derivatives – (1,324) – (1,324) – (6,381) – (6,381) Contingent consideration – – (6,666) (6,666) – – (16,414) (16,414) Total financial liabilities carried at fair value – (1,324) (6,666) (7,990) – (6,381) (16,414) (22,795) During 2019, there were no transfers between Level 1 and Level 2. In the following table, we present a reconciliation of the changes in the Level 3 fair values: 2019 2018 2017 US$000 US$000 US$000 Financial assets carried at fair value At the beginning of the year 1,465 12,318 6,766 Additions: – Energous warrants – – 4,753 Unrealised fair value (loss)/gain recognised in profit or loss (other finance (expense)/income): – Energous warrants (1,434) (10,853) 941 – Dyna Image call option – – (142) At the end of the year 31 1,465 12,318 2019 2018 2017 US$000 US$000 US$000 Financial liabilities carried at fair value At the beginning of the year (16,414) (23,709) – Contingent consideration: – Additions (6,517) (653) (23,273) – Change in estimate (other operating income) – 808 – – Unwinding of discount recognised in profit or loss (interest expense) (464) (2,220) (436) – Settlements 16,729 9,360 – At the end of the year (6,666) (16,414) (23,709) We estimate that if the expected values of Creative Chips’ revenues for 2020 and 2021 had been 10% higher or 10% lower, the fair value of the contingent consideration payable for Creative Chips at the end of 2019 would have been US$5,111 higher at US$11,777 or US$5,781 lower at US$885, respectively. In each case, the effect of the increase or decrease in fair value would have been recognised in profit or loss as other finance expense or income, respectively. b) Financial instruments not carried at fair value We have calculated the fair value of the non-interest bearing prepayment from Apple by discounting the future scheduled recoupments based upon the observable yield curve at the balance sheet date for US dollar-denominated debt with an equivalent risk profile (Level 2). We have calculated the fair value of lease liabilities by discounting the future lease payments at the relevant lessee’s incremental borrowing rate based on observable yield curves at the balance sheet date (Level 2). We have calculated the fair value of the bank loans acquired with Creative Chips by discounting the future principal repayments based on the observable yield curve at the balance sheet date for Euro-denominated debt with an equivalent risk profile (Level 2). Other financial assets and financial liabilities that are not carried at fair value are of short maturity and/or bear interest at floating rates. We therefore consider that their carrying amounts approximate to their fair values (Level 2). 164 Annual report and accounts 2019 34. Financial risk management Background The Group’s central treasury function is responsible for ensuring that adequate funding is available to meet the Group’s requirements and for maintaining an efficient capital structure, together with managing the Group’s counterparty credit risk, foreign currency and interest rate exposures. All treasury operations are conducted within strict policies and guidelines that are approved by the Board. We use currency derivatives to manage currency risk and we hold certain equity options and warrants for strategic reasons. We do not hold or issue derivative financial instruments for speculative purposes. Credit risk Credit risk is the risk that a customer or a counterparty financial institution fails to meet its contractual obligations as they fall due causing the Group to incur a financial loss. The Group is exposed to credit risk in relation to receivables from its customers and cash and cash equivalents and other financial assets held with financial institutions. Before accepting a new customer, we assess the potential customer’s credit quality and establish a credit limit. Credit quality is assessed using data maintained by reputable credit agencies, by checking references included in credit applications, and, where they are available, by reviewing the customer’s recent financial statements. Credit limits are subject to multiple levels of authorisation and are reviewed on a regular basis. We make an allowance for lifetime expected credit losses on receivables that is regularly reviewed and, if necessary, adjusted on the basis of current information about the customer’s creditworthiness. Financial statements The Group depends on a relatively small number of customers for a substantial part of its revenue. As at 31 December 2019, trade accounts receivable amounted to US$122,528 (2018: US$98,234), including US$85,298 (2018: US$62,207) due from our largest customer. We utilise non-recourse receivables financing facilities provided by two financial institutions in an aggregate amount of US$240 million. In July 2019, the principal facility of US$220 million was extended for a further two years and will now mature on 31 October 2021. Receivables sold under these facilities are derecognised from the Group’s balance sheet because the financial institutions concerned assume all credit risk associated with them. When a receivable is sold, the Group is credited with the majority of the invoice amount with the balance credited on the earlier of the date on which the customer pays the amount due or 120 days after the receivable becomes due for payment. As at 31 December 2019, cash and cash equivalents included a benefit of US$65,439 (2018: US$96,099) in relation to receivables sold under these facilities and trade and other receivables included US$11,551 (2018: US$16,280) retained by the financial institutions. Cash deposits and cash equivalent investments are placed, where possible, with financial institutions that satisfy the criteria set out in our Board approved treasury policy, including a requirement that each has a median credit rating of not less than A(Standard & Poor’s), A3 (Moody’s), A(Fitch) or equivalent. Credit risk is further limited by investing only in liquid instruments. Market risk Market risk is the risk that the fair value of, or cash flows associated with, a financial instrument will fluctuate because of changes in market prices. Market risk comprises three types of risk: currency risk (due to changes in currency exchange rates), interest rate risk (due to changes in market interest rates) and other price risk. a) Currency risk The US dollar is the functional currency of the Company and its principal subsidiaries. Currency risk arises on transactions that are denominated in a currency other than the functional currency of the entity that enters into them. Nearly all of the Group’s sales and cost of materials are denominated in US dollars but certain operating expenses and tax cash flows are denominated in currencies other than the US dollar, in particular the Euro and the pound sterling. It is the Group’s policy to hedge a proportion of the currency risk associated with highly probable forecast cash flows on a rolling 12-month basis. As the timing of the forecast cash flows draws nearer, the proportion of the currency risk that is hedged increases within set parameters. Where possible, forward currency contracts that are entered into hedge forecast cash flows are designated as hedging instruments in cash flow hedge relationships. During 2019, a loss of US$3,941 (2018: a loss of US$10,075; 2017: gain of US$16,433), was recognised in other comprehensive income representing the change in the fair value of currency derivatives in effective hedging relationships and a cumulative loss of US$9,549 (2018: gain of US$2,343; 2017: gain of US$441) was reclassified to profit or loss on the occurrence of the hedged cash flows. 165 Financial statements Dialog Semiconductor Plc Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued 34. Financial risk management continued Market risk continued Currency derivatives held to hedge forecast cash outflows were as follows: As at 31 December 2019 Net notional amount Chinese Euro Pound sterling Japanese Yen Renminbi 000 000 000 000 Maturity 0 – 3 months 28,250 13,500 175,000 14,500 4 – 6 months 21,250 13,250 90,000 10,000 7 – 9 months 20,250 7,250 180,000 14,000 10 – 12 months 10,500 1,750 – – Total 80,250 35,750 445,000 38,500 Weighted average exchange rate US$ = 0.87 0.76 106.31 7.05 As at 31 December 2018 Net notional amount Chinese Euro Pound sterling Japanese Yen Renminbi 000 000 000 000 Maturity 0 – 3 months 26,750 11,000 207,500 19,000 4 – 6 months 21,500 9,250 115,000 10,000 7 – 9 months 18,000 3,750 140,000 10,500 10 – 12 months 8,000 1,750 50,000 4,000 Total 74,250 25,750 512,500 43,500 Weighted average exchange rate US$ = 0.82 0.74 107.99 6.71 During the year, the following amounts were recognised in profit or loss in relation to forward currency contracts in cash flow hedge relationships: 2019 2018 2017 US$000 US$000 US$000 Gain/(loss) reclassified from hedging reserve Hedged item affected profit or loss: – Cost of sales (676) 436 (77) – Selling and marketing expenses (290) 47 (3) – General and administrative expenses (1,191) 96 (69) – Research and development expenses (5,352) 1,422 (124) – Income tax expense (2,040) 342 743 Cash flow no longer expected to occur: – Other finance expense – – (29) (9,549) 2,343 441 Hedge ineffectiveness Other finance income/(expense) 1 (13) 14 Hedge ineffectiveness was determined as follows: 2019 2018 2017 US$000 US$000 US$000 Change in fair value of designated hedging instruments 5,609 (12,431) 16,006 Change in value of hedged item used to determine hedge ineffectiveness (5,608) 12,418 (15,992) Hedge ineffectiveness recognised in profit or loss 1 (13) 14 If the US dollar was to depreciate or appreciate by 10% against each of the foreign currencies in respect of which there were effective cash flow hedges in place as at 31 December 2019, there would be an incremental fair value gain of US$16,342 (2018: US$33,497) or an incremental fair value loss of US$13,371 (2018: US$27,407), respectively, recognised in other comprehensive income that would be reclassified to profit or loss on the occurrence of the hedged cash flows. Currency translation risk arises on financial assets and liabilities that are denominated in a currency other than the functional currency of the entity that holds them. The Group’s policy allows for such exposures to be hedged using currency derivatives. 166 Annual report and accounts 2019 34. Financial risk management continued Market risk continued During 2019 and 2018, we used forward currency contracts and currency swaps to hedge the translation exposure on the Euro-denominated liabilities that arose in relation to tranches of the Company’s share buyback programme. At the end of 2019, there were no outstanding contracts. At the end of 2018, we held outstanding contracts to purchase €150.0 million at an average rate of US$1 = €0.86 as a hedge of the maximum obligation that was outstanding in relation to an uncompleted tranche of share purchases. After taking into account currency hedging activities, the currency profile of the Group’s net financial assets/(liabilities) was as follows: As at As at 31 December 31 December 2019 2018 US$000 US$000 US dollar 832,922 482,532 Euro (10,368) (6,434) Pound sterling (7,918) 7,420 Taiwanese dollar (405) 768 Other (2,240) 1,752 Total 811,991 486,038 Financial statements If the US dollar was to appreciate or depreciate by 10% against each of the foreign currencies in which financial assets and financial liabilities were denominated as at 31 December 2019, there would be an exchange gain of US$2,093 (2018: loss of US$351) or an exchange loss of US$2,093 (2018: gain of US$351), respectively, recognised in arriving at the Group’s profit before tax. Currency translation risk also arises on consolidation in relation to the translation into US dollars of net investments in foreign operations but the exposure is not significant because the US dollar is the functional currency of the Company and each of its principal subsidiaries. b) Interest risk The interest rate profile of the Group’s financial assets and liabilities was as follows: As at 31 December 2019 Interest-bearing Non-interest Floating rate Fixed rate bearing Total US$000 US$000 US$000 US$000 Financial assets Cash and cash equivalents 959,105 – 65,439 1,024,544 Trade and other receivables – – 134,079 134,079 Investments – – 3,110 3,110 Other financial assets – – 3,258 3,258 Total financial assets 959,105 – 205,886 1,164,991 Financial liabilities Trade and other payables – – (104,620) (104,620) Lease liabilities – (43,044) – (43,044) Other financial liabilities – (1,816) (203,520) (205,336) Total financial liabilities – (44,860) (308,140) (353,000) As at 31 December 2018 Interest-bearing Non-interest Floating rate Fixed rate bearing Total US$000 US$000 US$000 US$000 Financial assets Cash and cash equivalents 581,749 – 96,099 677,848 Trade and other receivables – – 114,514 114,514 Investments – – 11,538 11,538 Other financial assets – – 2,009 2,009 Total financial assets 581,749 – 224,160 805,909 Financial liabilities Trade and other payables – – (122,140) (122,140) Other financial liabilities – – (197,731) (197,731) Total financial liabilities – – (319,871) (319,871) 167 Financial statements Dialog Semiconductor Plc Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued 34. Financial risk management continued Market risk continued The Group’s principal exposure to interest rate risk is in relation to interest income on investments in money market funds and short-term deposits, which attract US dollar interest rates. When applied to the Group’s floating interest rate exposures as at 31 December 2019, an increase or decrease of 50 basis points in market interest rates would increase or decrease the Group’s profit before tax by US$4,755 (2018: US$2,875), respectively. c) Other price risk In November 2016 and July 2017, the Company subscribed for common shares and was granted warrants to purchase common shares in Energous Corporation (“Energous”). Energous’ common shares are listed on NASDAQ. At the end of 2019, the fair value of the shares held was US$3,079 and the fair value of the warrants was US$31. Changes in the fair value of the shares are recognised in other comprehensive income and changes in the fair value of the warrants are recognised in profit or loss. Assuming all other factors remain constant, the effect of a 10% increase in Energous’ share price as at 31 December 2019 would be to increase the Group’s profit before tax by US$9 (2018: US$314) and other comprehensive income by US$308 (2018: US$1,007) and the effect of a 10% decrease in the share price would be to reduce the Group’s profit before tax by US$8 (2018: US$289) and other comprehensive income by US$308 (2018: US$1,007). Liquidity risk Liquidity risk is the risk that an entity will encounter difficulty in meeting obligations associated with its financial liabilities. We regularly monitor cash flows at both Group and entity level. As at 31 December 2019, cash and cash equivalents amounted to US$1,024,544 (2018: US$677,848). In July 2017, the Company and certain of its subsidiaries, as guarantors, entered into a US$150 million three-year revolving credit facility provided by four financial institutions. The facility is committed and is available for general corporate purposes. In June 2018, the facility was extended by a year but at a reduced amount of US$112.5 million from July 2020 until July 2021. In June 2019, the facility was extended by a further year to July 2022 with no reduction in the amount of the facility from July 2020. We retain the option to increase the amount of the facility by US$75 million subject to certain conditions. The credit agreement contains various provisions, covenants and representations that are customary for such a facility. The facility remained undrawn as at 31 December 2019. The contractual maturity of financial liabilities was as follows: As at 31 December 2019 Within Between Between Between After Effect of Carrying 3 months 3 to 12 months 1 to 2 years 2 to 5 years 5 years discounting amount US$000 US$000 US$000 US$000 US$000 US$000 US$000 Trade and other payables 104,620 – – – – – 104,620 Lease liabilities 2,833 8,306 9,966 22,501 5,737 (6,299) 43,044 Prepayment from Apple 50,000 75,000 50,000 25,000 – (5,533) 194,467 Bank loans 198 596 608 414 – – 1,816 Deferred consideration 635 403 25 – – – 1,063 Contingent consideration – – 3,387 5,261 – (1,982) 6,666 Other non-derivative liabilities 53,666 84,305 63,986 53,176 5,737 (13,814) 247,056 Total non-derivative liabilities 158,286 84,305 63,986 53,176 5,737 (13,814) 351,676 Cash flows on derivative liabilities – Payments 34,636 81,379 – – – – 116,015 – Receipts (33,858) (80,225) – – – – (114,083) Cash flows on financial liabilities 159,064 85,459 63,986 53,176 5,737 (13,814) 353,608 As at 31 December 2018 Within Between Between Between After Effect of Carrying 3 months 3 to 12 months 1 to 2 years 2 to 5 years 5 years discounting amount US$000 US$000 US$000 US$000 US$000 US$000 US$000 Trade and other payables 122,140 – – – – – 122,140 Deferred consideration 712 1,620 834 7 – – 3,173 Contingent consideration 16,730 – – – – (316) 16,414 Share buyback obligation 171,763 – – – – – 171,763 Other non-derivative liabilities 189,205 1,620 834 7 – (316) 191,350 Total non-derivative liabilities 311,345 1,620 834 7 – (316) 313,490 Cash flows on derivative liabilities: – Payments 49,875 253,620 – – – – 303,495 – Receipts (46,018) (248,172) – – – – (294,190) Cash flows on financial liabilities 315,202 7,068 834 7 – (316) 322,795 168 Annual report and accounts 2019 34. Financial risk management continued Capital management The Group’s capital is represented by its total equity. As at 31 December 2019, the Group’s total equity was US$1,572,584 (2018: US$1,302,507). We seek to maintain a capital structure that supports the ongoing activities of our business and its strategic objectives in order to deliver long-term returns to shareholders. We allocate capital to support organic and inorganic growth, investing to support research and development and our product pipeline. We will fund our growth strategy using a mix of equity and debt after giving consideration to prevailing market conditions. In May 2016, we initiated a share buyback programme as part of our strategy to deliver shareholder returns. Since then, we have returned €393.7 million (US$435,100) to shareholders through five tranches of the programme. We will seek renewal of the share buyback authority at the Company’s 2020 AGM and will consider initiating further tranches of share purchases in the context of our regular assessment of the Group’s future growth opportunities and its strategic objectives. 35. Segment and geographic information a) Analysis by reporting segment Segment information is presented in the financial statements on a basis consistent with the information presented to the Management Team Financial statements (the “chief operating decision-maker”) for the purposes of allocating resources within the Group and assessing the performance of the Group’s businesses. Members of the Management Team are identified on pages 82 and 83. The Group’s reporting segments are determined based on the nature of the products that they provide to our customers. Organisational and measurement changes With effect from the beginning of the second quarter of 2019, the Group made a number of organisational changes. Prior to the changes, the Group had four reporting segments: Mobile Systems; Connectivity; Automotive & Industrial; and Advanced Mixed Signal. The following organisational changes were made: –– Mobile Systems’ standard PMICs and charging products were transferred to Advanced Mixed Signal and its standard audio products were transferred to Connectivity; –– Mobile Systems was re-named Custom Mixed Signal to reflect its new focus on custom products and Connectivity was re-named Connectivity & Audio; and –– Automotive & Industrial ceased to exist as a segment as its custom automotive motor control ICs were transferred as our Automotive business unit to Custom Mixed Signal and its industrial lighting products were transferred to Advanced Mixed Signal. We subsequently acquired Creative Chips and designated it as our new Industrial Mixed Signal business unit within Custom Mixed Signal. The Group now has three reporting segments: Custom Mixed Signal; Advanced Mixed Signal; and Connectivity & Audio: –– Custom Mixed Signal provides custom ICs designed to meet the needs of our customers in the mobile, industrial, automotive, computing and storage markets; –– Advanced Mixed Signal provides standard products including CMICs, AC/DC converter solutions for smaller, fast charging power adaptors for portable devices as well as LED drivers for backlighting and solid state lighting products; and –– Connectivity & Audio provides standard products incorporating short-range wireless, digital cordless, Bluetooth® low energy, VoIP and lowpower Wi‑Fi technologies. Each of the Group’s operating segments has a manager who is responsible for its performance and is accountable to the Chief Executive Officer. Custom Mixed Signal comprises our Custom Mixed Signal business group, our Industrial Mixed Signal business unit, and our Automotive business unit, each of which meets the definition of an operating segment but have been aggregated because they have similar economic characteristics and each provides custom products to similar types of customers through similar distribution channels. Otherwise, we have not aggregated any operating segments in determining our reporting segments. At the same time as effecting the organisational changes, the Management Team changed its focus from IFRS measures to underlying measures as the principal basis for allocating resources to and assessing the financial performance of the Group’s businesses. Underlying revenue is therefore the measure of segment revenue and underlying operating profit/loss the measure of segment profit/loss that is now presented in the Group’s segment disclosures. Comparative information for 2018 and 2017 has been restated to reflect these organisational and measurement changes. 169 Financial statements Dialog Semiconductor Plc Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued 35. Segment and geographic information continued a) Analysis by reporting segment continued Segment revenue and profit or loss Underlying performance measures exclude specific items of income or expense that are recognised in profit or loss reported in accordance with IFRS that we consider hinder comparison of the financial performance of our businesses from one period to another, with each other or with other similar businesses. Details of the items excluded from profit or loss reported under IFRS in arriving at the Group’s underlying profit or loss for each of the periods presented are set out in the section entitled “Financial performance measures” on pages 183 to 189. Segment revenue and operating profit/(loss) were as follows: Underlying revenue⁽¹⁾ Underlying operating profit/(loss) Restated Restated Restated Restated 2019 2018 2017 2019 2018 2017 US$000 US$000 US$000 US$000 US$000 US$000 Custom Mixed Signal 964,788 1,042,320 1,059,603 281,941 267,589 296,236 Advanced Mixed Signal 253,415 244,536 147,603 15,236 26,754 (1,326) Connectivity & Audio 183,781 154,004 137,834 21,607 13,636 9,740 Total segments 1,401,984 1,440,860 1,345,040 318,784 307,979 304,650 Corporate and other unallocated items 18,505 1,278 7,801 5,565 (26,351) (45,192) Total Group 1,420,489 1,442,138 1,352,841 324,349 281,628 259,458 1 Revenue is from sales to external customers (there were no inter-segment sales). Reconciliation of underlying revenue to revenue reported under IFRS 2019 2018 2017 US$000 US$000 US$000 Underlying revenue 1,420,489 1,442,138 1,352,841 Perpetual licence fee 145,750 – – Revenue reported under IFRS 1,566,239 1,442,138 1,352,841 Reconciliation of underlying operating profit to profit before income taxes reported under IFRS 2019 2018 2017 US$000 US$000 US$000 Underlying operating profit 324,349 281,628 259,458 Licence and asset transfers to Apple: – Perpetual licence fee 145,750 – – – Gain on transfer of design centre businesses 15,898 – – Share-based compensation and related expenses (54,656) (41,653) (35,498) Accounting for business combinations: – Acquisition-related costs (4,040) – (4,539) – Amortisation of acquired intangible assets (26,113) (22,629) (16,461) – Consumption of the fair value uplift of acquired inventory (1,749) (3,129) (2,305) – Consideration accounted for as compensation expense (1,204) (1,481) (1,409) – Forfeiture of deferred consideration 116 204 – – Remeasurement of contingent consideration – 878 – Integration costs (2,434) (2,765) (2,305) Corporate transaction costs (16,064) (11,346) – Strategic investments: – Impairment of non-current assets held by Dyna Image – – (4,327) – Loss on deconsolidation of Dyna Image – – (5,597) Operating profit reported under IFRS 379,853 199,707 187,017 Interest income 21,950 9,883 5,995 Interest expense (11,309) (3,134) (1,302) Other finance expense (5,456) (10,263) 3,093 Profit before income taxes 385,038 196,193 194,803 170 Annual report and accounts 2019 35. Segment and geographic information continued a) Analysis by reporting segment continued Other segment information Other segment information on an underlying basis is as follows: Custom Connectivity Advanced Total Corporate Total Mixed Signal & Audio Mixed Signal segments activities Group US$000 US$000 US$000 US$000 US$000 US$000 Year ended 31 December 2019 Research and development expenses 158,493 52,672 63,152 274,317 2,125 276,442 Write-down of inventories 6,884 738 3,514 11,136 (3) 11,133 Fixed assets⁽¹⁾: – Depreciation/amortisation 41,464 15,202 8,327 64,993 739 65,732 – Loss on disposal 282 3,112 58 3,452 992 4,444 Year ended 31 December 2018 Research and development expenses 185,061 42,180 53,703 280,944 13,290 294,234 Financial statements Write-down of inventories 4,309 279 987 5,575 68 5,643 Fixed assets⁽¹⁾: – Depreciation/amortisation 42,150 10,362 4,920 57,432 524 57,956 – Loss on disposal 788 4 27 819 104 923 Year ended 31 December 2017 Research and development expenses 169,925 39,005 36,128 245,058 30,727 275,785 Write-down of inventories (370) 337 1,403 1,370 (82) 1,288 Fixed assets⁽¹⁾: – Depreciation/amortisation 41,965 9,193 4,028 55,186 1,129 56,315 – Loss on disposal 417 2 – 419 172 591 1 Non-current assets excluding investments and deferred tax assets. b) Geographic information 2019 2018 2017 US$000 US$000 US$000 Revenue by destination United Kingdom 381 647 529 Other European countries 38,564 40,816 46,432 Mainland China 926,625 1,027,976 1,034,847 Hong Kong 318,850 288,838 196,722 Other Asian countries 102,041 72,642 61,111 USA 173,450 6,152 8,900 Rest of the world 6,328 5,067 4,300 Total 1,566,239 1,442,138 1,352,841 171 Financial statements Dialog Semiconductor Plc Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued 35. Segment and geographic information continued b) Geographic information continued As at As at As at 31 December 31 December 31 December 2019 2018 2017 US$000 US$000 US$000 Non-current assets⁽¹⁾ by location United Kingdom 40,830 47,909 48,761 Germany 131,739 43,511 58,782 Netherlands 62,771 56,501 52,791 USA 563,419 568,755 589,753 Taiwan 2,546 1,507 2,222 Rest of the world 58,440 7,334 9,299 Total 859,745 725,517 761,608 1 Non-current assets excluding investments and deferred tax assets. c) Information about major customers During 2019, 2018 and 2017, there was only one customer that accounted for more than 10% of the Group’s revenue. During 2019, revenue from that customer was US$1,168,568, including licence fees totalling US$164,234, of which US$1,086,636 was recognised in Custom Mixed Signal, US$63,448 was recognised in Advanced Mixed Signal and US$18,484 was recognised in Corporate and other unallocated items. During 2018, revenue from that customer was US$1,081,532, of which US$1,015,630 was recognised in Custom Mixed Signal and US$65,902 was recognised in Advanced Mixed Signal. During 2017, revenue from that customer was US$1,042,669, of which US$1,035,412 was recognised in Custom Mixed Signal and US$7,257 was recognised in Advanced Mixed Signal. 36. Transactions with related parties Key management personnel For the purpose of these disclosures, the Group’s key management personnel comprise the Management Team (which includes the Company’s Executive Director) and the Company’s non-executive Directors. Compensation of the Group’s key management personnel was as follows: 2019 2018 2017 US$000 US$000 US$000 Short-term employee benefits 9,148 9,196 6,712 Post-employment benefits 310 237 267 Share-based compensation 11,630 11,952 10,895 Total 21,088 21,385 17,874 Current members of the Company’s Board are identified on pages 80 and 81 and current members of the Management Team are identified on pages 82 and 83. Statutory information about Directors’ remuneration is presented in the Directors’ remuneration report on pages 92 to 106. During 2019, the aggregate emoluments payable to Directors in respect of qualifying services to the Company amounted to US$3,881 (2018: US$2,947; 2017: US$3,370). Share options and awards granted to the Executive Director under long-term incentive plans that have vested or will vest based on the Group’s and/or the Executive Director’s performance over a period ending during the year had an estimated value on vesting of US$2,160 (2018: US$1,310; 2017: US$1,399). Advances are made by foreign subsidiaries to the Executive Director and certain other members of the Management Team against foreign taxes arising as a result of business travel that are repaid as and when the relevant tax credits are received. As at 31 December 2019, the aggregate amount outstanding was US$1,185 (2018: US$350). During 2019, the weighted average aggregate amount outstanding was US$952 (2018: US$277). No interest is charged on the advances which are treated as a taxable benefit. Details of the advances made to the Executive Director are set out in the Directors’ remuneration report on page 100. Other related party transactions During 2019, 2018 and 2017, there were no other related party transactions that are required to be reported in these financial statements. 172 Annual report and accounts 2019 37. Adoption of IFRS 16 Background We adopted IFRS 16 Leases with effect from 1 January 2019. IFRS 16 replaced IAS 17 Leases, IFRIC 4 Determining whether an Arrangement contains a Lease and other related interpretations. IFRS 16 changed the way in which lessees recognise, measure, present and disclose leases. Under IAS 17, a lessee accounted for leases differently according to whether they were classified as a finance lease or an operating lease. Only finance leases were represented by assets and liabilities on the balance sheet. IFRS 16 provides a single lessee accounting model, requiring lessees to recognise a right-of-use asset and a lease liability for all leases, except, by election, those with a short lease term or involving an underlying asset of low value. Previous accounting for leases under IAS 17 Under IAS 17, leases that confer rights and obligations similar to those that attach to owned assets were classified as finance leases. All other leases were classified as operating leases. Assets held under finance leases were recognised as assets within property, plant and equipment, initially measured at the fair value of the leased asset or, if lower, the present value of the minimum lease payments, and a corresponding liability was recognised. Subsequently, the assets were depreciated over the shorter of the expected useful life of the asset or the lease term. At inception of the lease, the lease payments were apportioned between a capital element and an interest element so as to achieve a constant periodic rate of interest on the Financial statements outstanding liability. Subsequently, the interest element was recognised as an expense in profit or loss while the capital element was applied to reduce the outstanding liability over the lease term. Operating lease payments, net of any incentives receivable, were recognised in profit or loss on a straight-line basis over the lease term. New accounting for leases under IFRS 16 Definition of a lease A contract is, or contains, a lease if the contract conveys the right to control the use of an identified asset for a period of time in exchange for consideration. Control exists if, throughout the period of use, the lessee has the right to obtain substantially all of the benefits from the use of the asset and the right to direct the use of the asset. Lease liability On the commencement date of a lease, the lease liability is measured at the present value of the future lease payments discounted using the interest rate implicit in the lease, if that rate can be readily determined, or using the lessee entity’s incremental borrowing rate. Future lease payments comprise fixed payments, less any lease incentives receivable, variable payments that depend on an index or rate and, where applicable, amounts expected to be paid under a residual value guarantee, a purchase option or by way of termination penalties. Variable lease payments that do not depend on an index or rate are not reflected in the lease liability and are recognised in profit or loss in the period in which the event that triggers those payments occurs. After the commencement date, the carrying amount of the lease liability is increased to reflect interest on the lease liability, reduced to reflect lease payments made and remeasured to reflect reassessments of the future lease payments or certain lease modifications. Interest on the lease liability is recognised in profit or loss (within interest expense). Right-of-use asset On the commencement date of a lease, the right-of-use asset is measured at cost which comprises the initial amount of the lease liability, any lease payments made at or before the commencement date, less any lease incentives received, and any initial direct costs that we incur in relation to the lease. After the commencement date, the right-of-use asset is measured at cost less accumulated depreciation and any accumulated impairment losses and adjusted for any remeasurement of the lease liability. Right-of-use assets are depreciated so as to charge their cost to profit or loss (in arriving at operating profit), usually on a straight-line basis over the lease term. Short-term leases and leases of low value assets As permitted by IFRS 16, we elected not to recognise right-of-use assets and lease liabilities in respect of short-term leases (leases that have a lease term of 12 months or less) or leases involving an underlying asset of low value (an asset with a value when new of less than US$5 or foreign currency equivalent). We recognise the lease payments for those leases as an expense in profit or loss (in arriving at operating profit) on a straight-line basis over the lease term. 173 Financial statements Dialog Semiconductor Plc Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued 37. Adoption of IFRS 16 continued Transition to IFRS 16 As permitted by IFRS 16, we did not reassess whether any contract existing on the transition date was, or contained, a lease and applied IFRS 16 only to contracts that were previously identified as leases applying IAS 17 and IFRIC 4. We applied IFRS 16 using a modified retrospective approach whereby prior periods were not restated but we recognised cumulative effect adjustments to the opening consolidated balance sheet on 1 January 2019. We recognised the following for each contract that is, or contains, a lease on the transition date: –– a lease liability measured at the present value of the remaining lease payments discounted at the lessee’s incremental borrowing rate on the transition date; and –– a right-of-use asset measured at an amount equal to the lease liability, adjusted by the amount of any prepaid or accrued lease payments that was recognised at the end of 2018. We also recognised related adjustments to deferred tax assets and liabilities. We recognised an overall cumulative effect credit of US$40 against the opening balance of retained earnings on 1 January 2019 that may be analysed as follows: US$000 Right-of-use asset 66,390 Lease liabilities (67,631) Net accrued lease payments 1,241 – Net deferred tax credit 40 Increase in net assets 40 Prior to adopting IFRS 16, we disclosed commitments for future lease payments under non-cancellable operating leases. We reconcile below the future lease payments at the end of 2018 discounted at a weighted-average incremental borrowing rate of 5.2% to the lease liabilities recognised on adoption of IFRS 16. Discounted Future lease Effect of future lease payments discounting payments US$000 US$000 US$000 Future lease payments Within one year 15,505 (169) 15,336 Between one and two years 14,749 (865) 13,884 Between two and three years 14,056 (1,490) 12,566 Between three and four years 13,042 (2,005) 11,037 Between four and five years 8,078 (1,625) 6,453 After more than five years 13,202 (4,399) 8,803 Total minimum lease payments 78,632 (10,553) 68,079 Payment for short-term leases (393) Payments for leases of low value assets (55) Lease liability 67,631 174 Annual report and accounts 2019 37. Adoption of IFRS 16 continued Financial effect of IFRS 16 We summarise below the effect of IFRS 16 on the Group’s results for 2019 and on its financial position at the end of 2019. Consolidated statement of income for year ended 31 December 2019 As reported Adjustment for Amounts under under IFRS 16 effect of IFRS 16 IAS 17 US$000 US$000 US$000 Revenue 1,566,239 – 1,566,239 Cost of sales (717,703) (197) (717,900) Gross profit 848,536 (197) 848,339 Operating expenses, net (508,088) (1,865) (509,953) Other operating income 39,405 139 39,544 Operating profit 379,853 (1,923) 377,930 Net finance income 5,185 2,910 8,095 Profit before income taxes 385,038 987 386,025 Income tax expense (83,586) (197) (83,783) Financial statements Profit after income taxes 301,452 790 302,242 Net income 301,452 790 302,242 Earnings per share (US$) Basic 4.19 0.01 4.20 Diluted 3.96 0.01 3.97 Consolidated balance sheet as at 31 December 2019 As reported Adjustment for Amounts under under IFRS 16 effect of IFRS 16 IAS 17 US$000 US$000 US$000 Assets Other current assets 22,532 214 22,746 Total current assets 1,305,887 214 1,306,101 Property, plant and equipment – leased 41,423 (41,423) – Deferred tax assets 8,242 (237) 8,005 Total non-current assets 871,097 (41,660) 829,437 Total assets 2,176,984 (41,446) 2,135,538 Liabilities and equity Lease liabilities 8,972 (8,972) – Total current liabilities 373,422 (8,972) 364,450 Lease liabilities 34,072 (34,072) – Other non-current liabilities 88,044 945 88,989 Total non-current liabilities 230,978 (33,127) 197,851 Retained earnings 1,451,582 617 1,452,199 Other reserves (274,729) 36 (274,693) Total equity 1,572,584 653 1,573,237 Total liabilities and equity 2,176,984 (41,446) 2,135,538 38. Subsequent event Proposed acquisition of Adesto On 20 February 2020, we announced that Dialog has entered into a definitive agreement to acquire all of the outstanding shares in Adesto Technologies Corporation (“Adesto”). Adesto (NASDAQ: IOTS) is a leading provider of innovative custom ICs and embedded systems for the IIoT market. Headquartered in Santa Clara, California, Adesto has approximately 270 employees and an established portfolio of industrial solutions for smart building automation that complements Dialog’s range of manufacturing automation products. Adesto’s solutions are sold across the industrial, consumer, medical, and communications markets. Dialog proposes to acquire Adesto for US$12.55 per share in cash, representing an enterprise value of approximately US$500 million, to be funded from our existing cash balances. The transaction is subject to certain regulatory approvals and customary closing conditions and is expected to close in the third quarter of 2020. 175 Financial statements Dialog Semiconductor Plc Company balance sheet As at 31 December 2019 2018 Note US$000 US$000 Assets Cash and cash equivalents 939,037 577,945 Other financial assets 1,056 202 Income tax receivable 7 537 612 Amounts owed by group undertakings 44,075 32,593 Other current assets 2,938 2,618 987,643 613,970 Assets classified as held for sale 6 – 1,944 Total current assets 987,643 615,914 Investments in subsidiaries 4 1,013,745 855,299 Other investments 5 3,110 11,538 Intangible assets 152 190 Other non-current assets 366 398 Total non-current assets 1,017,373 867,425 Total assets 2,005,016 1,483,339 Liabilities and equity Amounts owed to group undertakings 1,070,257 377,757 Trade and other payables 3,424 3,158 Other financial liabilities 1,324 178,146 Other payables 1,279 89 Total current liabilities 1,076,284 559,150 Non-current liabilities 5,504 7,087 Ordinary shares 14,204 14,204 Share premium account 403,660 403,660 Retained earnings 800,634 536,108 Other reserves (273,137) (14,356) Dialog shares held by employee benefit trusts (22,133) (22,514) Total equity 8 923,228 917,102 Total liabilities and equity 2,005,016 1,483,339 As permitted by section 408 of the Companies Act 2006, the Company’s income statement has not been included in these financial statements. The Company’s profit for the financial year was US$96,466 (2018: US$108,582). These financial statements were approved by the Board of Directors on 4 March 2020 and were signed on its behalf by: Dr Jalal Bagherli Director 176 Annual report and accounts 2019 Company statement of changes in equity Year ended 31 December Dialog shares Share held by Ordinary premium Retained Other reserves employee shares account earnings (note 8) benefit trusts Total US$000 US$000 US$000 US$000 US$000 US$000 As at 31 December 2017 14,204 403,660 595,270 8,393 (902) 1,020,625 Net income – – 108,582 – – 108,582 Other comprehensive income – – – (22,749) – (22,749) Total comprehensive income/(expense) – – 108,582 (22,749) – 85,833 Other changes in equity: – Share buyback obligation – – (171,187) – – (171,187) – Purchase of shares by employee benefit trusts – – – – (21,786) (21,786) – Sale of shares by employee benefit trusts – – 3,443 – 174 3,617 As at 31 December 2018 14,204 403,660 536,108 (14,356) (22,514) 917,102 Net income – – 96,466 – – 96,466 Other comprehensive loss – – – (6,994) – (6,994) Total comprehensive income/(expense) – – 96,466 (6,994) – 89,472 Financial statements Other changes in equity: – Purchase of own shares into treasury – – (4,431) (251,787) – (256,218) – Share buyback obligation – – 169,505 – – 169,505 – Purchase of shares by employee benefit trusts – – – – – – – Sale of shares by employee benefit trusts – – 2,981 – 381 3,362 – Share-based compensation, net of tax – – 5 – – 5 As at 31 December 2019 14,204 403,660 800,634 (273,137) (22,133) 923,228 177 Financial statements Dialog Semiconductor Plc Notes to the Company financial statements For the year ended 31 December 2019 1. Background Description of business Dialog Semiconductor Plc (“the Company”) is a public limited company that is incorporated in England and Wales and domiciled in the United Kingdom. The Company’s ordinary shares are listed on the Frankfurt Stock Exchange. The Company is the ultimate parent of a group of companies that creates and markets highly-integrated, mixed-signal integrated circuits, optimised for personal, portable, hand-held devices, low energy short-range wireless, LED solid state lighting, industrial and automotive applications. Statement of compliance The Company’s separate financial statements on pages 176 to 182 have been prepared in accordance with FRS 101 Reduced Disclosure Framework and those parts of the Companies Act 2006 that are applicable to companies reporting under FRS 101. Accordingly, the Company’s separate financial statements comply with the recognition and measurement requirements of IFRS as adopted for use in the European Union but they exclude certain disclosures that would otherwise be required under that body of accounting standards. Basis of preparation The Company’s separate financial statements have been prepared on a going concern basis and in accordance with the historical cost convention, except that certain investments and derivative financial instruments are stated at their fair value. Fair value is the price that would be received to sell an asset or paid to transfer a liability in an orderly transaction between market participants at the measurement date. The Company’s significant accounting policies are set out in note 2. Presentation currency The Company’s separate financial statements are presented in US dollars (“US$”), which is the Company’s functional currency. All US dollar amounts are rounded to the nearest thousand (“US$000”), except where otherwise stated. Disclosure exemptions utilised under FRS 101 In preparing the Company’s separate financial statements, the Directors utilised the following exemptions from the disclosure requirements of IFRS adopted for use in the European Union that are available to them under FRS 101: –– Paragraphs 45(b) (number and weighted average exercise prices of share options) and 46 to 52 (determination of fair value of options and awards granted and financial effect of share-based compensation) of IFRS 2 Share-based Payment; –– IFRS 7 Financial Instruments – Disclosures; –– Paragraphs 91 to 99 (disclosure requirements) of IFRS 13 Fair Value Measurement; –– Paragraph 38 of IAS 1 Presentation of Financial Statements with regard to comparative information requirements in respect of paragraph 79(a)(iv) of IAS 1 (reconciliation of the number of the Company’s shares outstanding at the beginning and end of the period); –– Paragraphs 10(d) (statement of cash flows), 16 (statement of compliance with IFRS), 38(A to D) (comparative information), 111 (statement of cash flows) and 134 to 136 (disclosures about capital) of IAS 1 Presentation of Financial Statements; –– IAS 7 Statement of Cash Flows; –– Paragraphs 30 and 31 of IAS 8 Accounting Policies, Changes in Accounting Estimates and Errors (discussion of IFRSs issued by the IASB but not yet adopted by the Company); and –– Paragraph 17 of IAS 24 Related Party Disclosures (compensation of key management personnel) and the further requirement in IAS 24 to disclose related party transactions entered into with subsidiaries that are wholly-owned by the Company. Approval of the financial statements The Company’s separate financial statements for the year ended 31 December 2019 were authorised for issue by the Board of Directors on 4 March 2020. Accounting standards adopted during the year IFRS 16 Leases The Company adopted IFRS 16 with effect from 1 January 2019. Since the Company is not party to any lease contracts, the adoption of IFRS 16 had no impact on its results or financial position. IFRIC 23 Uncertainty over Income Tax Treatments IFRIC 23 clarifies the application of the recognition and measurement requirements of IAS 12 Income Taxes where there is uncertainty over income tax treatments. Since the Company already accounted for income taxes on a basis consistent with IFRIC 23, its adoption had no impact on the Company’s results or financial position. 178 Annual report and accounts 2019 2. Significant accounting policies Investments in subsidiaries A subsidiary is an entity that is controlled, either directly or indirectly, by the Company. Control exists when the Company is exposed, or has rights, to variable returns from its involvement with the entity and has the ability to affect those returns through its power to direct the activities of the entity that significantly affect its returns. Investments in subsidiaries represent interests in the Company’s subsidiaries that are directly owned by the Company. Unless classified as held for sale, investments in subsidiaries are stated at cost less provision for impairment. Investment in associate An associate is an entity over which the Company has significant influence. Significant influence is the power to participate in financial and operating policy decisions but not to control or jointly control them. Significant influence generally exists where the Company holds, directly or indirectly through one or more of its subsidiaries, more than 20% and less than 50% of the shareholders’ voting rights. Unless classified as held for sale, investments in associates are stated at cost less provision for impairment. Foreign currency translation Transactions denominated in foreign currencies are recorded in US dollars at the exchange rate ruling at the date of the transaction. Monetary assets and liabilities denominated in foreign currencies are translated at the exchange rate ruling at the balance sheet date. Financial statements Currency translation differences are recognised in profit or loss. Financial instruments Amounts owed by/to Group undertakings Amounts owed by/to Group undertakings are initially measured at fair value and are subsequently measured at amortised cost using the effective interest method. Cash and cash equivalents Cash and cash equivalents include cash at bank and in hand, investments in money market funds and short-term deposits with an original maturity of three months or less. Equity investments Equity investments are initially measured at fair value plus transaction costs, if any. Equity investments are subsequently measured at fair value with resulting gains and losses recognised in profit or loss unless the Company irrevocably elects on initial recognition for such gains and losses to be recognised in other comprehensive income. The Company has made this election in respect of its investment in the common shares of Energous Corporation. Derivative financial instruments The Company holds derivative financial instruments that are used to reduce its exposure or that of its subsidiaries to currency exchange rate movements. The Company may also hold equity options and warrants in relation to certain of its strategic investments. The Company does not hold or issue derivatives for speculative purposes. All derivative financial instruments held by the Company are measured at fair value. All fair value gains and losses are recognised in profit or loss. Where the fair value of a derivative on initial recognition differs from the transaction price, if any, the difference is recognised immediately in profit or loss only if the fair value is evidenced by a quoted price in an active market or is based on a valuation technique that uses only data from observable markets. Assets classified as held for sale An asset is classiﬁed as held for sale if its carrying amount will be recovered by sale, it is available for immediate sale in its present condition and management has committed to, and has initiated, a plan to sell the asset which, when initiated, was expected to result in a completed sale within 12 months. Assets that are classiﬁed as held for sale are measured at the lower of their carrying amount when classified as held for sale and fair value less costs to sell. 179 Financial statements Dialog Semiconductor Plc Notes to the Company financial statements continued 2. Significant accounting policies continued Income taxes Current tax is the amount of tax payable or recoverable in respect of the taxable profit or loss for the period. Deferred tax is tax expected to be payable or recoverable on temporary differences between the carrying amount of an asset or liability in the financial statements and its tax base used in the computation of taxable profit. Deferred tax liabilities are generally recognised for all taxable temporary differences. Deferred tax assets are generally recognised for all deductible temporary differences to the extent that it is probable that taxable profits will be available in the future against which they can be utilised. Where there is uncertainty concerning the tax treatment of an item or a group of items, the amount of current and deferred tax recognised is based on management’s expectation of the likely outcome of the examination of the uncertain tax treatment by the relevant tax authorities. Current tax and deferred tax is recognised in profit or loss unless it relates to an item that is recognised in the same or a different period outside profit or loss, in which case the related tax is also recognised outside profit or loss, either in other comprehensive income or directly in equity. Share-based compensation The Company operates share-based compensation plans under which it grants options and other awards over its ordinary shares to employees of its subsidiaries. Awards granted under the existing plans are classified as equity-settled awards. The Company recognises a compensation expense that is based on the fair value of the awards measured at the grant date using the Black‑Scholes option pricing formula or a Monte Carlo valuation model. Shares held by employee benefit trusts The Company provides finance to two trusts to purchase the Company’s ordinary shares in order to meet its obligations under its share-based compensation plans. When the trusts purchase such shares, the cost of the shares is debited to equity and subsequent sales or transfers of the shares by the trusts are accounted for within equity. Treasury shares Treasury shares comprise the Company’s ordinary shares that have been purchased under the Company’s share buyback programme. Purchases made under the programme are off market and are effected by way of contingent forward share purchase contracts with thirdparty brokers. Subsequent sales, transfers or cancellations of treasury shares held by the Company are accounted for within equity. 3. Income statement As permitted by section 408 of the Companies Act 2006, the Company’s income statement has not been included in these financial statements. During 2019, the Company had no employees (2018: none). Advances are made by foreign subsidiaries to the Executive Director against foreign taxes arising as a result of business travel that are repaid as and when the relevant tax credits are received. Directors’ remuneration and details of the advances made to the Executive Director are set out in the Directors’ remuneration report on pages 92 to 106. Fees payable to the Company’s auditors, Deloitte LLP, are set out in note 8 to the consolidated financial statements. 4. Investments in subsidiaries Movements in the carrying amount of subsidiaries owned directly by the Company were as follows: US$000 As at 31 December 2018 855,299 Additions 158,446 As at 31 December 2019 1,013,745 Details of the Company’s subsidiaries as at 31 December 2019 are set out on page 197. 180 Annual report and accounts 2019 5. Other investments Other investments were as follows: 2019 2018 US$000 US$000 Equity investments: – Energous shares 3,079 10,073 Derivative financial instruments: – Energous warrants 31 1,465 Total other investments 3,110 11,538 In November 2016, the Company entered into a strategic alliance with Energous Corporation (“Energous”), the developer of WattUp®, a wire-free charging technology. At that time, the Company subscribed for 763,552 common shares in Energous and was granted warrants to purchase up to 763,552 common shares that were exercisable in full or in part on a cashless basis at any time between May 2017 and November 2019. The Company initially recognised the warrants at their grant date fair value of US$4,695 and an equivalent deferred credit within non-current liabilities. The Company will amortise the deferred credit to profit or loss in relation to the royalties that may be payable for the use of Energous’ Intellectual Property over the initial seven-year term of the strategic alliance. Amortisation of the deferred credit has not yet commenced. Financial statements On 5 July 2017, the Company subscribed for a further 976,139 common shares in Energous at a cost of US$15,000 and was granted a second tranche of warrants to purchase up to 654,013 common shares that are exercisable in full or in part on a cashless basis at any time between January 2018 and July 2020. The Company initially recognised the second tranche of the warrants at their grant date fair value of US$4,753 and an equivalent deferred credit within non-current liabilities. The Company is amortising the deferred credit to profit or loss over the three-year period from the grant date to the expiry of the warrants. During 2019, the Company recognised a fair value loss on the shares of US$6,994 (2018: loss of US$23,764) in other comprehensive income and a fair value loss of US$1,434 (2018: loss of US$10,853) on the warrants in profit or loss. Also during 2019, the Company recognised a credit of US$1,584 (2018: credit of US$1,584) in profit or loss on the amortisation of the fair value on initial recognition of the second tranche of the warrants. 6. Assets classified as held for sale Investment in subsidiary On 11 October 2018, the Company entered into an asset transfer agreement into with Apple Inc. (“Apple”), pursuant to which it will sell to Apple its shareholding in its wholly-owned subsidiary, Dialog Semiconductor (Italy) S.R.L. At that time, the Company reclassified its investment as an asset held for sale at its carrying amount of US$13. On completion of the sale in April 2019, the Company received proceeds of US$4,250 and recognised a gain of US$4,237 in profit or loss. Investment in associate On 7 December 2018, the Company entered into an agreement to dispose of its 38.7% ownership interest in Dyna Image Corporation (“Dyna Image”) for which it expected to receive consideration of between US$1.9 million and US$4.2 million. On entering into the sale agreement, the carrying amount of the investment was remeasured with the effect that US$1,052 of the impairment loss recognised on the investment in previous years was reversed as a credit to profit or loss and the Company reclassified its investment in Dyna Image as an asset held for sale at its carrying amount of US$1,931. We obtained the necessary regulatory approvals but the purchaser was unable to complete the transaction and the sale agreement was terminated on 2 September 2019. The Company immediately entered into a new agreement to sell its shareholding to another purchaser for a nominal amount. As a result, the carrying amount of the investment was written off and an impairment loss of US$1,931 was recognised in profit or loss. The sale of the Company’s shareholding in Dyna Image was completed in November 2019. 7. Income tax As at 31 December 2019, there was current tax receivable of US$537 (2018: US$612) representing tax overpaid. As at 31 December 2019 and 2018, no deferred tax assets were recognised. Deferred tax assets were not recognised for tax loss carryforwards of US$9,533 (2018: US$10,016) and deductible temporary differences of US$nil (2018: US$53) because it is not considered probable that taxable profits will be available in the future against which they can be utilised. 181 Financial statements Dialog Semiconductor Plc Notes to the Company financial statements continued 8. Share capital and reserves a) Share capital and share premium account Details of the Company’s share capital are set out in note 28 to the consolidated financial statements. The share premium account represents the difference between the nominal value of shares issued and the fair value of the consideration received. The share premium account is not distributable but may be used for certain purposes specified by United Kingdom law, including to write off expenses on any issue of shares and to pay up fully paid bonus shares. b) Other reserves Movements on other reserves were as follows: Capital redemption Fair value Treasury reserve reserve shares Total US$000 US$000 US$000 US$000 As at 31 December 2017 571 7,822 – 8,393 Other comprehensive income/(expense): – Fair value loss on available-for-sale investments – (23,764) – (23,764) – Income tax expense – 1,015 – 1,015 As at 31 December 2018 571 (14,927) – (14,356) Other comprehensive income/(expense): – Fair value loss on equity investments – (6,994) – (6,994) Other changes in equity: – Purchase of own shares into treasury – – (251,787) (251,787) As at 31 December 2019 571 (21,921) (251,787) (273,137) Treasury shares are shares purchased under the Company’s share buyback programme that have not been cancelled. Details of purchases made under the Company’s share buyback programme are set out in note 29 to the consolidated financial statements. The capital redemption reserve represents the nominal value of treasury shares that were cancelled in previous periods and is non-distributable. The fair value reserve comprises gains and losses recognised on equity investments that are measured at fair value through other comprehensive income. c) Distributable profits Profits available for distribution by the Company comprise its accumulated realised profits less its accumulated realised losses, subject to the restriction that a distribution may not reduce the Company’s net assets below the aggregate of its called up share capital and its undistributable reserves. The Directors consider that the Company’s distributable profits as at 31 December 2019 amounted to US$504,793 (2018: US$670,430). d) Dialog shares held by employee benefit trusts The Company provides finance to two trusts to purchase its ordinary shares in order to meet its obligations under its share-based compensation plans. As at 31 December 2019, the trusts held 804,712 ordinary shares (2018: 2,607,259 ordinary shares). An analysis of movements in the number of shares held by the trusts is presented in note 31 to the consolidated financial statements. 9. Share-based compensation A description of the share-based compensation plans operated by the Company, together with information about share options exercised and outstanding is presented in note 31 to the consolidated financial statements. 10. Guarantees As described in note 3 to the consolidated financial statements, Apple made an interest-free prepayment of US$300,000 to Dialog following completion of the licensing and asset transfer agreement between us. The Company and certain of its subsidiaries have jointly and severally guaranteed the reducing letter of credit that was put in place in favour of Apple in relation to the outstanding principal amount of the prepayment. As at 31 December 2019, the amount available to be drawn under the letter of credit was US$250,000 and was reduced to US$200,000 following the scheduled quarterly recoupment of the prepayment in January 2020. General guarantees have been issued by the Company under Article 403, Book 2 of the Dutch Civil Code in respect of its Dutch subsidiaries, in order that they do not have to file annual accounts in the Netherlands. 182 Annual report and accounts 2019 Financial performance measures Use of non-IFRS measures We use a number of measures to assess our financial performance, to ensure our performance is aligned to strategy and continued alignment with shareholders’ interests. We consider certain of these measures to be particularly important and identify them as “key performance indicators” (“KPIs”). We have identified the following financial measures as KPIs: revenue growth; gross margin, operating expenses as a percentage of revenue; operating margin; diluted EPS and free cash flow. We monitor the profit or loss measures that are KPIs on both an IFRS basis and an underlying basis. Underlying measures of performance and free cash flow are non-IFRS measures because they exclude amounts that are included in, or include amounts that are excluded from, the most directly comparable measure calculated and presented in accordance with IFRS or are calculated using financial measures that are not calculated in accordance with IFRS. We do not regard non-IFRS measures as a substitute for, or superior to, the equivalent IFRS measures. Non-IFRS measures presented by Dialog may not be directly comparable with similarly-titled measures used by other companies. Underlying measures of performance We report underlying measures of performance because we believe they provide both management and investors with useful additional information about the financial performance of our businesses. Underlying measures of performance represent the equivalent IFRS measures adjusted for specific items that are considered by us to hinder comparison of the financial performance of our businesses from one period to another, with each other or with other similar businesses. Underlying measures of performance exclude items that can have a significant effect on the Group’s profit or loss. We compensate for these limitations by monitoring separately the items that are excluded from the equivalent IFRS measures in calculating the underlying measures. We outline below the specific items of income and expense that are recognised in profit or loss in accordance with IFRS but are excluded from our underlying results. Licence and asset transfers to Apple We excluded from our underlying results the following discrete benefits that were recognised on completion of the licensing and asset transfer agreement with Apple in April 2019: –– the revenue attributed to the perpetual licence over our existing Power Management IP; and –– the gain on the transfer of design centre businesses. Financial performance measures Share-based compensation and related expenses We exclude the share-based compensation expense recognised in relation to options and other awards granted under the Company’s sharebased compensation plans because the awards are equity-settled and their effect on shareholders’ returns is already reflected in diluted earnings per share measures. In 2019, we also excluded discrete compensation payments to certain US persons following the modification of options awarded to them. We additionally exclude the effect on profit or loss of changes in the accrual for payroll taxes payable on the exercise or vesting of such awards because the accrual fluctuates with the Company’s share price and the effect on profit or loss is therefore not necessarily indicative of our trading performance. Business combinations We exclude those effects of applying the acquisition method of accounting under IFRS that we consider are not indicative of the Group’s trading performance, including the accounting for transaction costs; the fair value adjustment to inventories of acquired businesses; the recognition of certain elements of the purchase price as compensation expense; and the recognition of remeasurements of contingent consideration in profit or loss. During the periods under review, we excluded from our underlying results the following items in relation to the accounting for business combinations: –– acquisition-related costs; –– the recognition in cost of sales of the consumption of the fair value uplift to inventory held by the acquired businesses at the acquisition date; –– the element of deferred amounts payable for Silego that is recognised as compensation expense; –– credits recognised on the forfeiture of deferred consideration payable for Silego; –– the effect of changes in estimates of contingent consideration; and –– the interest expense recognised on the unwinding of the discount on liabilities for contingent consideration. We also exclude from our underlying results the amortisation of identifiable intangible assets that are recognised in business combinations in order that the performance of those businesses that we have acquired may be compared fairly with those businesses that we have developed on an organic basis. Integration costs We exclude the costs of integrating acquired businesses because we consider that they hinder the assessment of the financial performance of those businesses. In 2019, we excluded integration costs incurred in relation to FCI and Creative Chips. In 2018 and 2017, we excluded integration costs incurred in relation to Silego. 183 Financial performance measures Dialog Semiconductor Plc Financial performance measures continued Underlying measures of performance continued Corporate transaction costs We exclude significant transaction costs and other discrete items recognised in relation to corporate transactions other than business combinations. In 2019 and 2018, we excluded transaction costs incurred in relation to the licensing and asset transfer agreement with Apple. In 2018, we also excluded the costs incurred in relation to the acquisition discussions that we held with Synaptics Incorporated. Strategic investments We exclude the effect on profit or loss of the measurement at fair value of our strategic investments (comprising the shares and the warrants that we hold in Energous, the call option that we held over the shares that we did not own in Dyna Image prior to its expiry in June 2018 and, until they were sold in May 2017, the shares that we held in Arctic Sand). We hold such instruments for strategic reasons linked to our commercial partnerships with the relevant companies. Since we do not hold these instruments for trading purposes, we exclude fluctuations in their fair values when assessing our trading performance. In December 2017, we recognised impairment losses totalling US$4,327 in relation to the intangible assets and property, plant and equipment held by Dyna Image and ceased to account for it as a subsidiary, recognising a loss of US$5,597 on deconsolidation. Since these were significant discrete items, we excluded them from our underlying results. Effective interest on financial liabilities We adjusted profit or loss to exclude the non-cash element of the interest expense recognised in relation to a patent licensing agreement that was accounted for as a hire purchase contract prior to its expiry during 2018. We considered that the cash interest payments were more indicative of the effect of this arrangement on shareholders’ returns. Income tax effect of underlying adjustments We calculate the income tax effect of underlying adjustments by considering the specific tax treatment of each item and by applying the relevant statutory tax rate to those items that are taxable or deductible for tax purposes. US tax reform In December 2017, the US President signed into law significant reforms of the US tax system, including a reduction of the Federal corporate income tax rate from 35% to 21%. Our income tax expense for 2017 reflected a non-cash deferred tax credit of US$6,658 resulting from the remeasurement of US deferred tax balances at the lower tax rate. Since this was a discrete benefit, we excluded it from our underlying results. Reconciliation of underlying measures to equivalent IFRS measures Reconciliations of the underlying measures of performance to the equivalent IFRS measures for the years ended 31 December 2019, 2018 and 2017 are presented in the following tables: Year ended 31 December 2019 Share-based Licence and compensation Accounting Corporate US$000 unless stated IFRS asset transfers and related for business Integration transaction Strategic Underlying otherwise basis to Apple expenses combinations costs costs investments basis Revenue 1,566,239 (145,750) – – – – – 1,420,489 Cost of sales (717,703) – 2,213 1,749 – – – (713,741) Gross profit 848,536 (145,750) 2,213 1,749 – – – 706,748 Gross margin % 54.2% 49.8% SG&A expenses (194,538) – 26,254 20,670 2,086 16,064 – (129,464) R&D expenses (313,550) – 26,189 10,571 348 – – (276,442) Other operating income 39,405 (15,898) – – – – – 23,507 Operating profit 379,853 (161,648) 54,656 32,990 2,434 16,064 – 324,349 Operating margin % 24.3% 22.8% Net finance income 5,185 – – 464 – – (150) 5,499 Profit before income taxes 385,038 (161,648) 54,656 33,454 2,434 16,064 (150) 329,848 Income tax expense (83,586) 32,449 (7,937) (4,998) (175) (1,213) 29 (65,431) Net income 301,452 (129,199) 46,719 28,456 2,259 14,851 (121) 264,417 EBITDA n/a 390,081 EBITDA margin % n/a 27.5% 184 Annual report and accounts 2019 Reconciliation of underlying measures to equivalent IFRS measures continued Year ended 31 December 2018 Share-based compensation Accounting Corporate IFRS and related for business Integration transaction Effective Strategic Underlying basis expenses combinations costs costs interest investments basis Revenue 1,442,138 – – – – – – 1,442,138 Cost of sales (751,070) 1,791 3,129 13 – – – (746,137) Gross profit 691,068 1,791 3,129 13 – – – 696,001 Gross margin % 47.9% 48.3% SG&A expenses (168,228) 17,163 14,757 2,524 11,346 – – (122,438) R&D expenses (326,309) 22,699 9,148 228 – – – (294,234) Other operating income 3,176 – (877) – – – – 2,299 Operating profit 199,707 41,653 26,157 2,765 11,346 – – 281,628 Operating margin % 13.8% 19.5% Net finance (expense)/income (3,514) – 2,220 – – 50 9,269 8,025 Profit before income taxes 196,193 41,653 28,377 2,765 11,346 50 9,269 289,653 Income tax expense (55,281) (2,108) (3,448) (555) (1,024) (9) (746) (63,171) Profit after income taxes 140,912 39,545 24,929 2,210 10,322 41 8,523 226,482 Share of loss of associate (1,113) – – – – – – (1,113) Net income 139,799 39,545 24,929 2,210 10,322 41 8,523 225,369 EBITDA n/a 339,584 EBITDA margin % n/a 23.5% Year ended 31 December 2017 Share-based compensation Accounting IFRS and related for business Integration Effective Strategic US tax Underlying Financial performance measures basis expenses combinations costs interest investments reform basis Revenue 1,352,841 – – – – – – 1,352,841 Cost of sales (707,971) 1,219 2,306 – – – – (704,446) Gross profit 644,870 1,219 2,306 – – – – 648,395 Gross margin % 47.7% 47.9% SG&A expenses (145,262) 16,285 14,358 1,121 – – – (113,498) R&D expenses (303,013) 17,994 8,050 1,184 – – – (275,785) Other operating (expense)/ income (9,578) – – – – 9,924 – 346 Operating profit 187,017 35,498 24,714 2,305 – 9,924 – 259,458 Operating margin % 13.8% 19.2% Net finance income 7,786 – 436 – 289 (1,398) – 7,113 Profit before income taxes 194,803 35,498 25,150 2,305 289 8,526 – 266,571 Income tax expense (25,369) (3,476) (4,187) (701) (56) 1,889 (6,658) (38,558) Net income 169,434 32,022 20,963 1,604 233 10,415 (6,658) 228,013 EBITDA n/a 315,773 EBITDA margin % n/a 23.3% 185 Financial performance measures Dialog Semiconductor Plc Financial performance measures continued Accounting for business combinations We excluded from the underlying measures of performance the following specific items arising from business combinations accounting under IFRS: US$000 2019 2018 2017 Acquisition-related costs 4,040 – 4,539 Amortisation of acquired intangible assets 26,112 22,629 16,461 Consumption of the fair value uplift of acquired inventory 1,750 3,129 2,305 Consideration accounted for as compensation expense 1,204 1,481 1,409 Forfeiture of deferred consideration (116) (204) – Remeasurement of contingent consideration – (878) – Increase in operating profit 32,990 26,157 24,714 Unwinding of discount on contingent consideration 464 2,220 436 Increase in profit before income taxes 33,454 28,377 25,150 Income tax credit (4,998) (3,448) (4,187) Increase in net income 28,456 24,929 20,963 Explanation of financial performance measures Change in revenue We monitor the change in revenue from one period to another and the trend in revenue over time because they are important measures of the growth in our business. During each period, the change in revenue was as follows: 2019 2018 2017 IFRS measures Revenue in the period 1,566,239 1,442,138 1,352,841 Revenue in the comparative period 1,442,138 1,352,841 1,197,611 Increase in revenue 8.6% 6.6% 13.0% Underlying measures Revenue in the period 1,420,489 1,442,138 1,352,841 Revenue in the comparative period 1,442,138 1,352,841 1,197,611 (Decrease)/increase in revenue (1.5)% 6.6% 13.0% Gross margin Gross margin is gross profit expressed as a percentage of revenue. We monitor gross margin because we believe it provides a measure of the value that we add to our products. Gross margin determined in accordance with IFRS and on an underlying basis was as follows: 2019 2018 2017 IFRS measures Revenue 1,566,239 1,442,138 1,352,841 Gross profit 848,536 691,068 644,870 Gross margin 54.2% 47.9% 47.7% Underlying measures Revenue 1,420,489 1,442,138 1,352,841 Gross profit 706,748 696,001 648,395 Gross margin 49.8% 48.3% 47.9% 186 Annual report and accounts 2019 Explanation of financial performance measures continued Operating expenses as a percentage of revenue We monitor operating expenses as a percentage of revenue because we believe it provides a measure of our effort in innovation and the efficiency of our operating structure. Operating expenses comprise selling, general and administrative (“SG&A”) expenses and research and development (“R&D”) expenses. Operating expenses as a percentage of revenue determined in accordance with IFRS and on an underlying basis was as follows: 2019 2018 2017 IFRS measures Revenue 1,566,239 1,442,138 1,352,841 Operating expenses (508,088) (494,537) (448,275) Operating expenses as a percentage of revenue 32.4% 34.3% 33.1% Underlying measures Revenue 1,420,489 1,442,138 1,352,841 Operating expenses (405,906) (416,672) (389,283) Operating expenses as a percentage of revenue 28.6% 28.9% 28.8% Change in operating profit We monitor the change in operating profit from one period to another and the trend in operating profit over time because we believe they are important measures of the performance of our operations. Operating profit growth determined in accordance with IFRS and on an underlying basis was as follows: 2019 2018 2017 IFRS measures Operating profit in the period 379,853 199,707 187,017 Operating profit in the comparative period 199,707 187,017 309,807 Increase/(decrease) in operating profit 90.2% 6.8% (39.6)% Underlying measures Operating profit in the period 324,349 281,628 259,458 Financial performance measures Operating profit in the comparative period 281,628 259,458 221,010 Increase in operating profit 15.2% 8.5% 17.4% Operating margin Operating margin is operating profit or loss expressed as a percentage of revenue. We monitor operating margin because we believe it provides a measure of the overall profitability of our operations. Operating margin determined in accordance with IFRS and on an underlying basis was as follows: 2019 2018 2017 IFRS measures Revenue 1,566,239 1,442,138 1,352,841 Operating profit 379,853 199,707 187,017 Operating profit margin 24.3% 13.8% 13.8% Underlying measures Revenue 1,420,489 1,442,138 1,352,841 Operating profit 324,349 281,628 259,458 Operating profit margin 22.8% 19.5% 19.2% 187 Financial performance measures Dialog Semiconductor Plc Financial performance measures continued Explanation of financial performance measures continued Underlying EBITDA and EBITDA margin Underlying EBITDA is a non-IFRS measure that we define as underlying net income before net finance expense, income tax expense and depreciation and amortisation expenses. Underlying EBITDA margin is a non-IFRS measure that represents underlying EBITDA expressed as a percentage of revenue. We present underlying EBITDA and underlying EBITDA margin because we believe these measures are useful to investors and other users of our financial information in evaluating the sensitivity of our underlying trading performance to changes in variable operating expenses. Underlying EBITDA may be reconciled to net income determined in accordance with IFRS as follows: 2019 2018 2017 Net income 301,452 139,799 169,434 Net finance (income)/expense (5,185) 3,514 (7,786) Income tax expense 83,586 55,281 25,369 Depreciation expense 39,611 31,455 30,807 Amortisation expense 52,233 49,130 41,969 EBITDA 471,697 279,179 259,793 Licence and asset transfers to Apple (161,648) – – Share-based compensation and related expenses 54,656 41,653 35,498 Acquisition-related costs 4,040 – 4,539 Consumption of the fair value uplift of acquired inventory 1,750 3,129 2,305 Consideration accounted for as compensation expense 1,204 1,481 1,409 Forfeiture of deferred consideration (116) (204) – Remeasurement of contingent consideration – (878) – Corporate transaction costs 16,064 11,346 – Integration costs 2,434 2,765 2,305 Share of loss of associate – 1,113 – Underlying EBITDA 390,081 339,584 315,773 Underlying EBITDA margin was as follows: 2019 2018 2017 Underlying measures Revenue 1,420,489 1,442,138 1,352,841 EBITDA 390,081 339,584 315,773 EBITDA margin 27.5% 23.5% 23.3% 188 Annual report and accounts 2019 Explanation of financial performance measures continued Earnings per share We monitor basic and diluted earnings per share (“EPS”) on an IFRS basis and on an underlying basis. We believe that underlying EPS measures are useful to investors in assessing our ability to generate earnings and provide a basis for assessing the value of the Company’s shares (for example, by way of price earnings multiples). Earnings for calculating IFRS and underlying EPS measures were calculated as follows: 2019 2018 2017 IFRS measures Net income 301,452 139,799 169,434 Loss attributable to non-controlling interests – – 4,482 Earnings for calculating basic and diluted EPS 301,452 139,799 173,916 Underlying measures Net income 264,417 225,369 228,013 Loss attributable to non-controlling interests – – 1,425 Earnings for calculating basic and diluted EPS 264,417 225,369 229,438 Underlying and diluted EPS measures are calculated using the weighted average number of shares that are used in calculating the equivalent measures under IFRS as presented in note 11 to the consolidated financial statements. Basic and diluted EPS on an IFRS basis and on an underlying basis were as follows: US$ 2019 2018 2017 IFRS earnings per share Basic 4.19 1.89 2.34 Diluted 3.96 1.80 2.21 Underlying earnings per share Basic 3.68 3.05 3.08 Diluted 3.47 2.90 2.92 Financial performance measures Free cash flow Free cash flow is a non-IFRS measure that represents cash flow from operating activities, less capital expenditure. We believe that free cash flow is useful to investors because it provides a measure of the cash generated by our business that is available for expansion, to make strategic investments in, or acquire, other businesses, to repay borrowings and to fund distributions to shareholders. Free cash flow was calculated as follows: 2019 2018 2017 Cash flow from operating activities 496,465 288,649 284,722 Purchase of property, plant and equipment (12,129) (26,145) (47,938) Purchase of intangible assets (8,437) (6,197) (6,196) Payments for capitalised development costs (15,384) (24,771) (20,988) Capital element of lease payments (11,086) (1,651) (4,283) Free cash flow 449,429 229,885 205,317 189 Additional information Dialog Semiconductor Plc Appendix External review of reporting on sustainability Verisk Maplecroft was commissioned by Dialog Semiconductor Plc (“Dialog Semiconductor”) to help advance its sustainability reporting. This included guidance with respect to reporting strategy, materiality, selected content and reporting best practice. This statement is made in our capacity as a service provider to Dialog Semiconductor on this assignment. Verisk Maplecroft did not verify the data contained in this annual report. Approach Verisk Maplecroft was involved in the following activities between mid2019 and early 2020: –– Review of reporting standards: Including the Global Reporting Initiative Standards (“GRI Standards”), the International Integrated Reporting (“IR”) Framework and the Ten Principles of the United Nations Global Compact (“UNGC”); –– Gap analysis: To identify and, where feasible, help address gaps in Dialog Semiconductor’s existing reporting practices against the relevant reporting standards; –– Engagement: Including both remote and face-to-face engagement with Dialog Semiconductor managers as well as external stakeholders; –– Materiality process: Implementation, with Dialog Semiconductor, of an interim review of our materiality assessment which was aligned with the GRI Standards; and –– Performance enhancement: The outcomes from the above processes were used, where possible, to enhance Dialog Semiconductor’s level of reporting and to support its closer alignment with the GRI Standards reporting requirements. Sam Rogers and Sarah Sinjab 4 March 2020 Verisk Maplecroft, 1 Henry Street, Bath BA1 1JS, United Kingdom www.maplecroft.com info@maplecroft.com GRI Standards Material Topics GRI Standard Material Sustainability Topic Page GRI 100 Series: General 101: Foundation Y* 28-31, 70-75, GRI table 102: General disclosures Y* Throughout the report 103: Management approach disclosures Y* Throughout the report GRI 200 Series: Economic 201: Economic performance Y Value generation and distribution 40-41, 54-55, 62-69, GRI table 202: Market presence 203: Indirect economic impact Y Value generation and distribution 41 204: Procurement practices 205: Anti-corruption Y Corruption/bribery 48-49, GRI table 206: Anti-competitive behaviour 207: Tax Y Corporate governance and compliance Corruption/bribery 65-67, 71, 74, GRI table GRI 300 Series: Environmental 301: Materials Product impacts Compliance with customer standards 302: Energy 303: Water and effluents 304: Biodiversity 305: Emissions 306: Effluents and waste 307: Environmental compliance Y Corporate governance and compliance Compliance with customer standards 38-39, 43, 44-47, GRI table 308: Supplier environmental assessment Y Corporate governance and compliance 44-47, GRI table 190 Annual report and accounts 2019 GRI Standard Material Sustainability Topic Page GRI 400 Series: Social 401: Employment Y Recruitment of professionals and graduates Retention, morale and engagement 32-35. GRI table 402: Labor/management relations 403: Occupational health and safety 404: Training and education Y Retention, morale and engagement Employee development 32, 34, 40, GRI table 405: Diversity and equal opportunity Y Diversity and equality 34-35, 46, 48 406: Non discrimination Y Diversity and equality 34-35, 83 407: Freedom of association and Y Labour rights and human rights (supply chain) collective bargaining 34-35, 46, GRI table 408: Child labour Y Labour rights and human rights (supply chain) 46, GRI table 409: Forced or compulsory labour Y Labour rights and human rights (supply chain) 46, GRI table 410: Security practices 411: Rights of indigenous peoples 412: Human rights assessment Y Corporate governance and compliance Labour rights and human rights (supply chain) 44–48, GRI table 413: Local communities 414: Supplier social assessment Y Corporate governance and compliance 44–47, GRI table 415: Public policy 416: Customer health and safety Y Corporate governance and compliance 36-37, GRI table 417: Marketing and labelling Y Corporate governance and compliance 36-37, GRI table 418: Customer privacy Y Corporate governance and compliance 36-37, GRI table 419: Socioeconomic compliance Y Corporate governance and compliance 36-37, GRI table * Applicable to the material topics identified by Dialog in 2019 UN Global Compact reference table Category Principle Page Human rights 1 Businesses should support and respect the protection of internationally proclaimed human rights 28, 30-31, 38-39, 42-43, 44-49, GRI table Human rights 2 Businesses should make sure that they are not complicit in human rights abuses 28, 30-31, 38-39, 42-43, 44-49, GRI table Labour 3 Businesses should uphold the freedom of association and the effective recognition of the right to collective bargaining 28, 30-31, 38-39, 42-43, 44-49, GRI table Labour 4 Businesses should uphold the elimination of all forms of forced and compulsory labour 28, 30-31, 32-35, 38-39, 42-43, 44-49, GRI table Labour 5 Businesses should uphold the effective abolition of child labour 28, 30-31, 32-35, 38-39, 42-43, 44-49, GRI table Additional information Labour 6 Businesses should uphold the elimination of discrimination in respect of employment and occupation 28, 30-31, 32-35, 38-39, 44-47, GRI table Environment 7 Businesses should support a precautionary approach to environmental challenges 28, 30-31, 38-39, 40-47, GRI table Environment 8 Businesses should undertake initiatives to promote greater environmental responsibility 07, 22, 24–27, 29-31, GRI table Environment 9 Businesses should encourage the development and diffusion of environmentally friendly technologies 02-03, 10-11, 41-43, 56-61, GRI table Anti-corruption 10 Businesses should work against corruption in all its forms, including extortion and bribery 28, 30-31, 38-39, 42-43, 44-49, GRI table 191 Additional information Dialog Semiconductor Plc Glossary of Terms – Technical Technical glossary Digital A type of signal used to transmit Liquid Crystal Display (“LCD”) A display information that has only discrete levels of technology found in many portable Analog A type of signal in an electronic some parameter (“usually voltage”). electronics products, including personal circuit that takes on a continuous range of organisers, cellular handsets and values rather than only a few discrete values. Digital Enhanced Cordless notebook computers. Telecommunications (“DECT”) is a ADAS Advanced driver-assistance systems. wireless connectivity standard technology LTE Long-Term Evolution is a standard for AI Artificial intelligence. originated in Europe for cordless telephony. wireless communication of high-speed data for mobile phones and data terminals. Appcessories A physical device and Fabless A company that designs and counterpart application for a mobile device delivers semiconductors by outsourcing the Mixed-signal A combination of analog and typically controlled via Bluetooth®. fabrication (“manufacturing”) process. digital signals being generated, controlled or modified on the same chip. AR Augmented reality. FET A Field Effect Transistor uses an electric field to control the shape and hence the OEM An Original Equipment Manufacturer ASIC An Application Specific Integrated conductivity of a channel of one type of that builds products or components that are Circuit is an integrated chip, customcharge carrier in a semiconductor material. used in products sold by another company. designed for a specific application. Foundry A manufacturing plant where Original Design Manufacturer (“ODM”) ASSP An Application Specific Standard silicon wafers are produced. An original design manufacturer designs and Product is a semiconductor device produces products that are specified and integrated circuit (“IC”) dedicated to a Hi-Fi High-Fidelity is the reproduction of then rebranded by OEMs. specific application and sold to more than sound with little or no distortion. one user. PMIC Power Management IC. High power density In the context of travel Audio CODEC The interface between adapters, chargers and power supplies, Power Management The management analog signals (such as the human voice) high power density is the ability to put higher of the power requirements of various and the digital data processing inside a power AC/DC conversion capability inside subsystems, important in hand-held and mobile phone, determining voice quality. smaller form-factor adapter cases and power portable electronics equipment. supply housings while avoiding thermal BCD process platform The incorporation PrimAccurate™ Dialog’s patented control issues that can occur when operating high of analog components (“Bipolar”), digital technology that uses digital algorithms on power electronics in confined, small spaces. components (“CMOS”) and high-voltage the primary side of an isolated power supply High power density is achieved by enabling transistors (“DMOS”) on the same die to eliminating the need for a secondary side the use of smaller components that are also reduce the number of components required regulator and optical feedback isolator to more highly efficient. in the bill of materials, minimise board space, lower the total BOM cost, reduce the overall costs and the parasitic losses in comparison GaN Gallium Nitride. solution size and improve reliability. to a non-integrated solution. IC Integrated Circuit An electronic device Rapid Charge™ A Dialog product which BOM Bill of materials. with numerous components on a single chip. enables substantially faster battery charging of portable devices via USB AC/DC Bluetooth® Smart Bluetooth® Smart FPGA A Field-programmable gate array power adapters. is a wireless personal area network is an integrated circuit designed to be technology designed and marketed by the configured by a customer or a designer Semiconductor A base material halfway Bluetooth Special Interest Group aimed after manufacturing. between a conductor and an insulator, which at novel applications in the healthcare, can be physically altered by mixing in certain Imaging The capture and processing of fitness, beacons, security, and home atoms. Semiconductors form the basis for images via an image sensor for use by an entertainment industries. present-day electronics. electronic device to send to a display for Buck converter A DC-to-DC buck converter viewing by a user. Silicon A semi-metallic element used to accepts a direct current input voltage and create a wafer – and the most common Internet of Things (“IoT”) The Internet produces a direct current output voltage to semiconductor material – in about 95% of Things is an environment where a plurality of channels. of all manufactured chips. everyday items, such as smartphones, CAD Computer Aided Design usually wearable health meters, light bulbs, and SmartBond™ Dialog’s SmartBond™ refers to a software tool used for designing lighting, security and HVAC systems, are family is the simplest route to delivering the electronics hardware or software systems. all connected via the Internet, allowing most power-friendly and flexible Bluetooth® them to send and receive data and be Smart connected products to the market. CDMA Code Division Multiple Access is an controlled wirelessly. Highly-integrated, SmartBond™ delivers the alternative to GSM technology for mobile smallest, most power-efficient Bluetooth® wireless networks. Internet of My Things It refers to the Smart solutions available – and enables the consumer segment of the Internet of Things. Chips Electronic integrated circuits. lowest system costs. LDO Low dropout voltage regulators are CMIC Configurable Mixed-Signal IC SmartDefender™ Dialog’s advanced used in battery operated systems, where A category of ICs comprising a matrix cycle-by-cycle, hiccup mode technology the output voltage is typically lower than the of analog and digital blocks which are that addresses soft short circuits in adapter input voltage. configurable through a programmable cables and connectors helping to prevent (“OTP”) non-volatile memory. LED A Light Emitting Diode is a excessive heat build-up and damage. semiconductor device that emits light when CMOS Complementary Metal Oxide charged with electricity, often used for LCD Semiconductor: the most popular class of display backlights. semiconductor manufacturing technology. 192 Annual report and accounts 2019 SmartMirror™ A technology patented USB Universal Serial Bus: a universal by Dialog Semiconductor which simplifies interface standard to connect different circuit design and provides very low current electronics devices. consumption in Power Management circuits. USB Power Delivery (“USB PD”) Smartphone A mobile phone offering A communication protocol developed by advanced capabilities, often with pcthe USB Implementers Forum. The USB like functionality (“PC-mobile handset PD protocol is added on top of the USB convergence”). A smartphone runs complete Type-C™ connector specification to enable a operating system software providing a single USB cable/connector solution that can standardised interface and platform for be used ubiquitously for power or charging application developers. across mobile devices, tablets, laptops, and even power tools, networking devices, and SmartPulse™ A series of wireless sensors, USB wall receptacles. The specification actuators and base station devices supports scalable power and performance enables the easy creation of wireless for new and emerging electronic products. sensor networks for the home automation, The USB PD specification provides flexible security, healthcare and energy monitoring power delivery and data transfer up to 100W. consumer markets. USB Type-C™ cable and connector SmarteXite™ Dialog’s brand name for its specification A universal cable and intelligent LED lighting technology platform. connector specification developed by the SmartXtend™ A technology patented by USB Implementers Forum that addresses Dialog Semiconductor that extends the life new, smaller, thinner, lighter form factor and reduces power consumption of highcomputing platforms and devices. It provides resolution, passive matrix OLED displays. for a slim, sleek and standard connector form-factor and high-power cable. SoC System on Chip An integrated circuit Combined with the USB Power Delivery with all the necessary electronic circuits and specification, USB Type-C enables a single parts for a given system. USB cable/connector solution that can be Solid State Lighting A type of lighting in used ubiquitously for power or charging which light-emitting diodes (“LEDs”) replaces across mobile devices, tablets, laptops, and conventional incandescent and fluorescent even power tools, networking devices, and lamp for general lighting purposes. USB wall receptacles. The specification supports scalable power and performance Subcontractor A business that signs for new and emerging electronic products. a contract to perform part or all of the obligations of another’s contract. Voice Over IP Our energy-efficient multicore VoIP processors interact with Bluetooth®, Synchronous Rectifier An integrated circuit Wi‑Fi and DECT to enable headset and that can replace diodes to improve efficiency handset connectivity while combining and power density in power conversion industry-leading power consumption with the applications, such as power supplies. flexibility and processing capacity to handle System-on-Chip An IC that integrates a wealth of enterprise VoIP applications. all components of a computer or other VR Virtual reality. electronic system into a single chip. It may Additional information contain digital, analog, mixed-signal, and Wafer A slice of silicon from a 4, 5, 6 often radio-frequency functions – all on a or 8 inch diameter silicon bar and used single chip substrate. as the foundation on which to build semiconductor products. Tablet PC A tablet PC refers to a slateor tablet-shaped mobile computer device, 4G Wireless broadband standard. equipped with a touchscreen or stylus. TAM Total addressable market, TAM measures the potential market for your product – and your product only – assuming you could reach 100% of your customers. Ultrabook™ A higher-end, compact subnotebook that is designed to be compact, thin and light without compromising performance and battery life. Ultrabooks™ typically feature low power processors and solid-state drives. 193 Additional information Dialog Semiconductor Plc Glossary of Terms – Financial Financial glossary the IASB the International Accounting Standards Board. AGM Annual General Meeting of the Company’s shareholders. IFRS International Financial Reporting Standards, comprising accounting standards BaFin the Federal Financial Supervisory issued by the IASB. Authority in Germany (Bundesanstalt für Finanzdiensleistungsaufsicht). KPIs Key Performance Indicators, a range of indicators to assess performance, to Basis point or bp one hundredth of one ensure performance is aligned to strategy, percentage point. and to ensure continued alignment with CAGR Compound Annual Growth Rate, shareholder interests. a method of assessing the average growth LTIP Long-Term Incentive Plan. of a value over time. NASDAQ the National Association CEO Chief Executive Officer. of Securities Dealers and CFO Chief Financial Officer. Automated Quotations. the Companies Act 2006 the Companies OECD Organisation for Economic Act 2006 of England and Wales, Co‑operation and Development. as amended. Other operating income consists of income the Company Dialog Semiconductor Plc. from customer-specific R&D contracts and other income that is not classified as COSO Committee of Sponsoring revenue, less other operating expenses. Organizations, whose mission is to provide thought leadership on risk management, Pound sterling (£) the currency of the UK. internal control and fraud deterrence Prime Standard a market segment of to improve organisational performance the Frankfurt Stock Exchange that lists and governance. companies which comply with international Cost of sales consists of material costs, transparency standards, including periodic the costs of outsourced production and reporting in German and English, application assembly, related personnel costs (including of international accounting standards, share-based compensation), applicable publication of a financial calendar, staging overhead and depreciation of test and of at least one analyst conference a year other equipment. and ad hoc disclosure also in German and English. Dialog Semiconductor, Dialog both used for convenience to refer to the Company R&D research and development. and its subsidiaries, unless the context R&D expenses consist principally of requires otherwise. personnel costs (including share-based the DTRs the Disclosure & Transparency compensation) and other design and Rules of the UKLA. engineering-related costs associated with the development of new ASICs and ASSPs. EBIT Earnings before interest and taxes (also known as operating profit). Selling and marketing expenses consist primarily of personnel costs (including shareEBITDA Earnings before depreciation, based compensation), travel expenses, amortisation, interest and taxes. sales commissions, advertising and other ESG Environmental Social and Governance. marketing costs, together with amortisation expenses in relation to identifiable intangible the EU the European Union. assets such as customer relationships, key Euro (€) the common currency used in the customers and order backlog acquired in majority of member countries of the EU. business combinations. the Frankfurt Stock Exchange the largest SG&A selling, general and administrative. of the seven regional securities exchanges the TecDAX stock index that tracks the in Germany. performance of the 30 largest companies Free-float The proportion of an issuer’s by market capitalisation from the technology share capital that is available for purchase sector that are listed on the Frankfurt in the public equity markets by investors. Stock Exchange. General and administrative expenses UK the United Kingdom of Great Britain consist primarily of personnel costs and Northern Ireland. (including share-based compensation) the UKLA the UK Listing Authority. and costs for our finance, human resources and other business support functions. US the United States of America. the Group the Company and US dollar (US$) the currency of the US. its subsidiaries. 194 Annual report and accounts 2019 Advisers and corporate information Advisers and corporate Registered office information Dialog Semiconductor Plc Public relations Tower Bridge House FTI Consulting St Katharine’s Way 200 Aldersgate London E1W 1AA Aldersgate Street UK London EC1A 4HD Website: www.dialog-semiconductor.com UK FTI Consulting Registered number Park Tower 3505161 Bockenheimer Anlage 44 60322 Frankfurt am Main Germany Financial calendar Annual General Meeting 30 April 2020 Legal adviser Q1 2020 Results 6 May 2020 Reynolds Porter Chamberlain LLP Q2 2020 Results 5 August 2020 Tower Bridge House Q3 2020 Results 5 November 2020 St Katharine’s Way Preliminary results for 2020 February 2021 London E1W 1AA UK Company Registrar Auditors Link Market Services (Frankfurt) GmbH Mergenthalerallee 15-21 Deloitte LLP 65760 Eschborn Abbotts House Germany Abbey Street Reading RG1 3BD UK Principal bankers HSBC Bank Plc Large Corporates, South Region Thames Tower Station Road Reading Berkshire RG1 1LX UK Designated sponsors Oddo Seydler Additional information Schillerstrasse 27-29 60313 Frankfurt am Main Germany Kepler Cheuvreux Taunusanlage 19 60325 Frankfurt am Main Germany Shares Information on the Company’s shares and on significant shareholdings can be found on page 89. 195 Additional information Dialog Semiconductor Plc Group directory Germany Japan Dialog Semiconductor GmbH Dialog Semiconductor K.K. Neue Strasse 95 8F, W-Building 1-8-15 Konan 73230 Kirchheim/Teck-Nabern Minato-ku Germany Tokyo 108-0075 Phone: (+49) 7021 805-0 Japan Fax: (+49) 7021 805-100 Phone: (+81) 3 5769-5100 Email: dialog.nabern@diasemi.com Fax: (+81) 3 5769-5101 Email: dialog.tokyo@diasemi.com United Kingdom Dialog Semiconductor (UK) Ltd China Delta 200 Dialog Semiconductor Delta Business Park Trading (Shanghai) Ltd Welton Road Room 703, 7F, Kehui Building Swindon No.1188 North Quinzhou Road Wiltshire SN5 7XB Shanghai United Kingdom 200231 Phone: (+44) 1793 757700 China Fax: (+44) 1793 757800 Phone: (+86) 215 4249 058 Email: dialog.swindon@diasemi.com Dialog Semiconductor (Shenzhen) Ltd 100 Longwater Avenue 25F, Lifetech Scientific Building Green Park South 12 Road, Southern District in Reading RG2 6GP High-tech Zone United Kingdom Nanshan District Phone: +44 1793 757700 Shenzhen Fax: +44 1189 759131 518057 China The Netherlands Phone: (+86) 755 2981 3669 Dialog Semiconductor B.V. Het Zuiderkruis 53 Taiwan 5215 MV ‘s-Hertogenbosch Dialog Semiconductor GmbH The Netherlands Taiwan Branch Phone: (+31) 73 640 88 22 7F, 392 Ruiguang Road Fax: (+31) 73 640 88 23 Neihu District Email: dialog.nl@diasemi.com Taipei City 11493 Taiwan, R.O.C. North America Phone: (+886) 281 786 222 Fax: (+886) 281 786 220 Dialog North America Email: dialog.taiwan@diasemi.com 2560 Mission College Boulevard Santa Clara California 95054 Korea USA Dialog Semiconductor Phone: (+1) 408 845 8500 Operations Services Limited Fax: (+1) 408 904 5170 Korea Branch Email: NA_sales_enquiries@diasemi.com 6 FL, Deokmyeong Building Teheran-ro 625 Dialog Semiconductor Inc. Gangnam-gu 675 Campbell Technology Parkway Seoul, 06173 Suite 150 Korea Campbell Phone: (+82) 2 3469 8200 California 95008 Fax: (+82) 2 3469 8291 USA Email: dialog.korea@diasemi.com 196 Annual report and accounts 2019 Related undertakings The Company’s related undertakings as at 31 December 2019 were as follows: Name Registered Address Country Creative Chips GmbH1 Im Bubenstück 1, 55411 Bingen-Büdesheim Germany Creative Chips Dresden GmbH1 Altstrehlen 4, 01219 Dresden Germany Dialog Argo Holdings, Inc. Corporation Trust Center, 1209 Orange Street, Wilmington, United States New Castle, DE 19801 Dialog Integrated Circuits Rooms 2601-03, No. 2 Building, TEDA Service Outsourcing Industrial Park, China (Tianjin) Limited1 No. 19 XinHuanxi West Road, TEDA, Tianjin, 300457 Dialog Semiconductor 25F, Lifetech Scientific Building, South 12 Road, China (Shenzhen) Limited1 Southern District in High tech Zone, Nan Shan District, Shenzhen, 518057 Dialog Semiconductor (UK) Limited Tower Bridge House, St Katharine’s Way, London E1W 1AA United Kingdom Dialog Semiconductor Arastırma Istanbul Technical University, Ayazaga Campus, ARI 6 Building, Turkey Gelistirme ve Ticaret Anonim Sirketi Maslak, Istanbul, 34469 Dialog Semiconductor B.V. Het Zuiderkruis 53, 5215 MV’s-Hertogenbosch Netherlands Dialog Semiconductor Finance B.V. Het Zuiderkruis 53, 5215 MV’s-Hertogenbosch Netherlands Dialog Semiconductor GmbH Neue Strasse 95, 73230 Kirchheim unter Teck-Nabern Germany Dialog Semiconductor Hellas Societe Megaro Xenia, Achilleos 8 & Lambrou Katsoni, Kallithea, Athens, 17674 Greece Anonyme of Integrated Circuits1 Dialog Semiconductor Holdings Tower Bridge House, St Katharine’s Way, London E1W 1AA United Kingdom 1 Limited Dialog Semiconductor Units 515-517, 5/F., Building 12W, No.12, Science Park West Avenue, Hong Kong Hong Kong Limited1 Phase Three, Hong Kong Science Park, Pak Shek Kok, N.T. Dialog Semiconductor Inc.1 Corporation Trust Centre, 1209 Orange Street, Wilmington, United States New Castle, DE 19801 Dialog Semiconductor K.K. 8F W-Building 1-8-15, Minato-ku, Tokyo 108-0075 Japan Dialog Semiconductor Korea Inc 7F, Bld B, Silicon Park, 35, Pangyo-ro 255 beon-gil (Sampyeong-dong), Korea (formerly FCI Inc.) Bundang-gi, Seongnam-si, Gyeonggi-do, 13486 Dialog Semiconductor Operations Tower Bridge House, St Katharine’s Way, London E1W 1AA United Kingdom Services Limited1 Dialog Semiconductor Trading Room 703, 7F Kehui Building, No.1188 North Quinzhou Road, China (Shanghai) Limited1 Xuhui District, Shanghai 200231 iWatt B.V.1 Het Zuiderkruis 53, 5215 MV’s-Hertogenbosch Netherlands iWatt Cayman1 PO Box 309, Ugland House, Grand Cayman, KY1-1104 Cayman Islands iWatt Coöperatief U.A.1 Het Zuiderkruis 53, 5215 MV’s-Hertogenbosch Netherlands iWatt HK Limited1 Units 515-517, 5/F., Building 12W, No.12, Science Park West Avenue, Hong Kong Phase Three, Hong Kong Science Park, Pak Shek Kok, N.T. iWatt L.L.C.1 Corporation Trust Center, 1209 Orange Street, Wilmington, United States New Castle, DE 19801 Powerventure Semiconductor Limited Tower Bridge House, St Katharine’s Way, London E1W 1AA United Kingdom Silego Korea Inc.1 6FL, Deokmyeong Building, Teheran-ro 625, Gangnam-gu, Seoul, 06173 Korea Additional information Silego (Hefei) Technology, Inc.1 Room 303, Building 2, No. 3 Tian Yuan Road, High-Tech Zone, Hefei, 230088 China Silego Technology Japan, Inc.1 8F W-Building 1-8-15 Konan, Minato-ku, Tokyo, 108-0075 Japan Limited Liability Company Silego Kamyanetska Str. 33, Lviv 79034 Ukraine Technology (Ukraine)1 Silego Technology Inc.1 Corporation Trust Center, 1209 Orange Street, Wilmington, United States New Castle, DE 19801 1 Held indirectly. All subsidiaries are wholly-owned. 197 Additional information Dialog Semiconductor Plc Branches and representative offices Name Entity Type Registered Address Country Creative Chips GmbH Branch Office 1-16-12 Nishi-Shinbashi, #1104, Minato-ku, Tokyo 105-003 Japan Japan Branch Dialog Integrated Circuits (Tianjin) Branch Office Room 902-904, Zhong Guan Cun Crowne Plaza Office Building, China Limited Beijing Branch No. 106 ZhiChun Road, Haidian District, Beijing, 100086 Dialog Semiconductor (UK) Limited, Branch Office 6 FL, Deokmyeong Building, Teheran-ro 625, Gangnam-gu, Korea Korea Branch Seoul, 06173 Dialog Semiconductor GmbH Branch Office Kärntner Strasse 518, 8054 Graz-Seiersberg Austria Austria Branch Dialog Semiconductor GmbH Branch Office 51 Anson Road, #12-51 Anson Centre, Singapore 079904 Singapore Singapore Branch Dialog Semiconductor GmbH Branch Office 7F., No.392, Ruiguang Rd., Neihu Dist., Taipei City 114 Taiwan Taiwan Branch Dialog Semiconductor Operations Branch Office 6 FL, Deokmyeong Building, Teheran-ro 625, Gangnam-gu, Korea Services Limited Korea Branch Seoul, 06173 Dialog Semiconductor Operations Representative Office 26th Floor, Sathorn City Tower, 175 South Sathorn Road, Thailand Services Limited Thailand Thungmahamek, Sathorn,10120 Bangkok Representative Office Dialog Semiconductor Operations Branch Office 7F., No.392, Ruiguang Rd., Neihu Dist., Taipei City 114 Taiwan Services Limited Taiwan Branch Powerventure Semiconductor Branch Office 7F., No. 1, Taiyuan 1st St., Zhubei City, Hsinchu County 302 Taiwan Limited, Taiwan Branch Silego Technology Inc., Shanghai Representative Office Room 2102 J, Building 21, No. 500 North Chengdu Rd., China Representative Office Juangdu District, Shanghai Silego Technology Inc., Branch Office 7F., No. 392, Ruiguang Rd., Neihu Dist., Taipei City 114 Taiwan Taiwan Branch 198 Designed and produced by: Radley Yeldar | www.ry.com Financial statements partially created in‑house with firesys. This report is printed on Revive 100 Offset uncoated and Revive 100 silk, both are 100% recycled paper. Revive 100 Offset and Revive 100 Silk is manufactured to the certified environmental management system ISO 14001. Registered office Dialog Semiconductor Plc Tower Bridge House St Katharine’s Way London E1W 1AA UK www.dialog-semiconductor.com Learn more about how we’re building a power-efficient world at www.dialog-semiconductor.com
