2019 Corporate Social Responsibility Report Contents 3 Our Approach 61 Our People & Partners 4 Letter from Our CEO 62 Global Citizenship 5 Governance 65 Commitment to Employees 7 CSR Policies & Statements 68 Human Rights 8 Stakeholders & Materiality 70 Health & Safety 10 Transparency & Ethics 72 Diversity 12 Risks, Opportunities & Impacts 73 Commitment to Customers 14 CSR Awards & Recognition 75 Product Health & Safety 15 Key Performance Indicators 76 Security & Privacy 77 Partnerships 16 Our Operations 17 Environmental Management 79 Reporting 18 Energy Consumption 80 Reporting Parameters 21 Greenhouse Gas Emissions 81 GRI Index 26 Water Management 91 United Nations Global Compact Index 30 Waste Management 92 United Nations Sustainable 32 Supply Chain Development Goals 36 Land & Biodiversity 94 ISO 26000 Index 97 Data Dashboard 97 Energy Data 37 Our Imaging Solutions 99 Emissions Data 38 Circular Economy 105 Water Data 40 Product Certifications 109 Waste Data 42 Product Life Cycle 115 Employee Data 44 Materials 47 Return & Recycle 52 Product Emissions 53 Product Energy Use 54 Packaging 55 Accessibility Solutions 58 Software & Solutions Lexmark 2019 Corporate Social Responsibility Report csr.lexmark.com 2 Our Approach Citizenship at Lexmark begins with our pledge to provide our customers innovative, high-quality products and services in an environmentally and socially responsible manner. This encompasses our operations, where we deploy cost-effective best practices for energy conservation, wise water use, and waste reduction; and it extends to our support of community, where Lexmark employees are dedicated to creating cleaner, smarter, safer futures where we live and work. We believe that accessible and consistent documentation of our progress drives meaningful exchanges and deeper exploration of these topics. Communication is critical to continually improve as a responsible corporate citizen. We are committed to transparency in running our business as well as in the reporting of environmental and social progress. Click here to contact us. Lexmark 2019 Corporate Social Responsibility Report csr.lexmark.com 3 Our Approach Our Operations Our Imaging Solutions Our People & Partners Reporting Letter from Our CEO 2019 marked another year of Lexmark demonstrating its commitment to sustainability, corporate social responsibility, STEM education and community outreach. During 2019 we formed a Global Vision Team to recreate our company vision and mission, building upon the outstanding accomplishments and core beliefs that have guided Lexmark for many years. Our passion, conviction and speed to solve challenges drive us each day to make the communities in which we live and work better places to be. As we release this report, the world is in the midst of the COVID-19 pandemic. The well-being of our employees and customers is of the utmost importance. Maneuvering through this crisis requires resilience and adaptability – these are strengths of Lexmark and our culture. Lexmark continues to support print operations on the front line. In addition, Lexmark employees saw the need and met the challenge by developing, manufacturing and donating face shields and other personal protective equipment for healthcare workers. As we continue to navigate the ever-changing challenges of the COVID-19 pandemic, we will remain focused on improving our activities related to sustainability and corporate social responsibility. We have accomplished much over the years but have more to do in the following areas: “Each day I continue to • Sustainable product development and design be amazed at what our • Actively supporting STEM education initiatives employees accomplish • Actively supporting and participating in community improvement initiatives even during these very • Reducing the environmental impacts of our operations • Increasing our use of renewable energy and technologies challenging times. • More broadly applying the principles of the circular economy in our manufacturing —Allen Waugerman operations and product design • Sustainable supply chain • Continued product innovation Our overriding goal is to continue to be a thought and action leader in sustainability and corporate social responsibility. We know there will be challenges along the way and we will meet them head-on. Each day I continue to be amazed at what our employees accomplish even during these very challenging times. I am very honored and humbled to work with and lead such an incredible group of talented and innovative people that truly care about each other and their communities. Allen Waugerman President and Chief Executive Officer Lexmark International, Inc. Lexmark 2019 Corporate Social Responsibility Report csr.lexmark.com 4 Our Approach Our Operations Our Imaging Solutions Our People & Partners Reporting Governance Governance Lexmark creates innovative imaging services and technologies that help customers in more than 170 countries worldwide print, secure and manage information with ease, efficiency and unmatched value. Industries we serve Recognized as a global leader in innovative imaging and output technology solutions, we leverage our deep industry expertise—in retail, banking, healthcare, manufacturing, education, government and more— to simplify the complex intersection of digital and printed information. Lexmark 2019 Corporate Social Responsibility Report csr.lexmark.com 5 Our Approach Our Operations Our Imaging Solutions Our People & Partners Reporting We operate our business in a manner that results in a better world by focusing on our people, our planet and the communities in which we live and work. As we strive to maintain best practices for sustainability, Lexmark’s commitment to corporate social responsibility (CSR) is global in reach, balancing economic, environmental and social concerns. Our respect for these principles applies within our own organization and as it relates Transparency drives to our partners. We extend our commitment even further by developing solutions that enable our customers to achieve their own sustainability goals. On November 29, accountability, assuring 2016, Lexmark International Inc. was acquired by a consortium of investors comprised our stakeholders of Ninestar Corporation, PAG Asia Capital and Legend Holdings. Headquartered in Lexington, Kentucky, Lexmark is now a privately held company and is governed by a they can be confident Board of Directors. that Lexmark is being managed responsibly. Good corporate governance for Lexmark goes beyond ensuring that the organization is effective and profitable; a key element to governance is establishing open transparency on the details of the governance structure and composition. Transparency drives accountability, assuring our stakeholders they can be confident that Lexmark is being managed responsibly. Sustainability initiatives are lead by Lexmark’s Corporate Senior Manager of Global Sustainability, John D. Gagel. Mr. Gagel formally reviews and approves Lexmark’s annual CSR report. Lexmark’s Corporate Social Responsibility program management is directed by the Lexmark Corporate Sustainability Department. In addition, a Sustainability and Corporate Social Responsibility Cross-Functional Council, comprised of representation from business areas such as development, facilities, human resources, supply base management, supply chain and marketing, was formed to continually integrate sustainability into all areas of the business. Additionally, many of our sites have sustainability cross-functional teams on a site level. Lexmark 2019 Corporate Social Responsibility Report csr.lexmark.com 6 Our Approach Our Operations Our Imaging Solutions Our People & Partners Reporting CSR Policies & Statements Vision and Values Vision and Values Environmental Corporate Environmental, Health and Safety Policy Corporate Social Responsibility Policy Climate Change Policy Lexmark is committed to sustainable excellence in all our business activities, Human rights Human Rights Policy products and services. Human Trafficking and Slavery — Excerpt of Lexmark’s Corporate Environmental, Health and Safety Policy Code of conduct Lexmark Code of Business Conduct Lexmark Supplier Code of Conduct Responsible Business Alliance (RBA) Code of Conduct Quality Lexmark Quality Policy Statement Lexmark 2019 Corporate Social Responsibility Report csr.lexmark.com 7 Our Approach Our Operations Our Imaging Solutions Our People & Partners Reporting Stakeholders & Materiality Stakeholder engagement is fundamental to determining our direction, not only as a business but also as a global corporate citizen. For this reason, we regularly seek feedback from our stakeholders—employees, customers, and local communities, as well as analysts, the media, regulators and legislators, and suppliers and nongovernmental organizations (NGOs)—and then incorporate the information into our material topic prioritization and decision-making processes. We gather information using many methods and with varying frequency. In addition to biannual employee surveys, we collect input on an ongoing basis from the following sources: • Employee forums (internal chat sites • Conference participation, which • Review of and participation in and Diversity Network Groups) provides feedback from NGOs, voluntary and regulatory standards • Customer feedback through face-toanalysts, academia and peer groups • Participation with industry groups; for face meetings, trade shows, Technical • Lexmark Ethics Committee and Risk example, the Responsible Business Support Center calls, and the web Committee feedback Alliance (RBA) (including social media and blogs) • Market research (peer group • Community feedback through active materiality assessments, industry While we group similar stakeholders participation in local organizations trends, global issues and together for purposes of analysis, each • Analyst and press feedback through opportunities for improvement) group has its own range of issues of published reports, articles and • Meetings and briefings with interest. briefings government and regulatory bodies Stakeholder engagement One method of stakeholder engagement that Lexmark uses is involvement in industry coalitions, trade associations, and externally developed environmental and social charters. Prominent groups & organizations • Chemical Watch (CW) • Manufacturing Leadership Council • Alliance Française des Industries du • Deutsches Institut für Normung (DIN) • Maquiladora association (Index Numérique (AFNUM) • DIGITALEUROPE Juarez) • American National Standards Institute • Ellen MacArthur Foundation • Mid-America Gay & Lesbian Chamber (ANSI) • Employers and Manufacturers of Commerce • Arbor Day Foundation Association (Asia Pacific) • National Sanitation Foundation (NSF) • Australian Information Industry • European Remanufacturing Council • Responsible Business Alliance Association (AIIA) (founding member) (RBA) -formerly Electronic Industry • Bundesverband • GreenBiz Executive Network Citizenship Coalition (EICC) Informationswirtschaft, • Green Electronics Council (GEC) • Responsible Minerals Initiative Telekommunikation und neue Medien Information Technology Association of • U.S. Chamber of Commerce (BITKOM) Canada (ITAC) • United Nations Global Compact • Business Imaging Association of • Information Technology Industry • University of Kentucky Center for Australia (BIAA) Council (ITI) Sustainable Manufacturing • Carbon Disclosure Project (CDP) • IT-BPO Tripartite Council (Department • University of Kentucky Office of • Center for European Manufacturing of Labor and Employment, Philippines) Technology Commercialization (CRR) • ITI Environmental Leadership Council Lexmark 2019 Corporate Social Responsibility Report csr.lexmark.com 8 Our Approach Our Operations Our Imaging Solutions Our People & Partners Reporting This table summarizes the categories of topics in which our stakeholder groups are most engaged: Stakeholder feedback From there we begin the process of focusing on the most relevant issues and materiality for Lexmark. Lexmark utilizes extensive We identify, value and prioritize all qualitative and quantitative analyses the feedback we gather from our to contribute to business judgments in stakeholders. We believe that a more making strategic and comprehensive perspective contributes operational decisions positively toward our strategic and for the company. We use tactical decisions. We respond to these pairwise comparison key topics of concern by incorporating the analysis in our research feedback into our decision-making process methodology to add and by including them in our materiality clarity to our focus. Our analysis, which ensures proper focus material subjects are moving forward. determined with this enhanced process. Our efforts are prioritized and balanced to maintain alignment with our vision and This allows our values. To be an effective organization, organization to see what we must be able to focus efforts on those is most meaningful to our initiatives that are most relevant and broad set of stakeholders actionable. Our citizenship prioritization and to align our efforts begins by capturing a wide range accordingly. With this of potential key subjects, and then ongoing process and we considering more than 50 subjects continue to monitor for relevant to our stakeholders with regard changing sentiment. to corporate citizenship. This enables us to These material subjects recognize and respect a highly diverse set drive action within our operations. of issues. Lexmark 2019 Corporate Social Responsibility Report csr.lexmark.com 9 Our Approach Our Operations Our Imaging Solutions Our People & Partners Reporting Transparency & Ethics Ethical Business Practices Preventing Corruption All allegations of employee corruption and We believe that ethical behavior is critical Lexmark business operations are regularly fraud are thoroughly investigated by the to the Lexmark's vision, Customers for analyzed for risks related to corruption. appropriate business unit in collaboration Life. All Lexmark employees are expected All locations and operations are included with Human Resources, Internal Audit, to adhere to the policies set forth in the when considering fraud risks. Significant and the Lexmark Legal Department. Lexmark Code of Business Conduct. The entities and processes are specifically Results of such investigations determine Code covers the following topics: personal identified during the review process. disciplinary action and whether the conduct, conflicts of interest, accounting Corruption risk factors are considered in incident requires investigation by outside records, internal controls and audits, the formation of the Lexmark internal audit agencies and formal charges. While complying with laws and regulations, plan, which is reviewed by the Director of incidents of corruption are infrequent, they supplier relationships, customer Internal Audit, the Senior Vice President do occur. In accordance with the Lexmark relationships, information concerning and Chief Information and Compliance zero-tolerance policy toward bribery others and corporate social responsibility. Officer, and the Chief Financial Officer and corruption, Lexmark will dismiss any on an annual basis. The company has employee who commits a nonsystemic, In 2019, all regular, worldwide employees designed and adopted employee and personal-level incident of fraud or and managers acknowledged their supplier codes of business conduct that dishonesty. understanding of the 2019 Code of help to mitigate these risks. Business Conduct confirming that Preventing Anticompetitive Behavior they conduct themselves and Lexmark The annual audit planning process takes Lexmark supports efforts to preserve and business in accordance with the Code’s into consideration high-risk fraud areas foster fair and honest competition in a requirements. Internal Audit, Human such as revenue recognition, inventory, competitive market system. We take care Resources and Legal review the Code of receivables, fixed assets, liabilities/ to ensure that our business practices do Business Conduct on an annual basis. disbursements and employee payables. not violate competition laws (also known Based on the risk assessment for fraud, as antitrust, monopoly, fair trade or cartel Lexmark requires targeted anti-corruption Internal Audit evaluates controls in each laws) which prohibit business practices and anti-bribery training courses that audited area through test steps designed that unreasonably restrict the functioning educate select employee groups about to address fraud risks. of the competitive system. Lexmark risks of corruption specific to their job was not the subject of any claims of functions. Lexmark has a zero-tolerance policy anticompetitive behavior during 2019. towards bribery and corruption among Any officer, director, employee or agent employees and business partners. Monetary Fines acting on behalf of Lexmark who violates We terminate business relationships Lexmark has not been subject to any the Lexmark Code of Business Conduct can with business partners that operate in significant fines or nonmonetary sanctions be subject to Lexmark disciplinary action, an unethical manner. No legal cases for noncompliance of laws and regulations as well as substantial government fines regarding corrupt practices were brought related to accounting fraud, human rights, and/or imprisonment. against Lexmark or our employees workplace discrimination, health and during 2019. safety or corruption during this reporting period. Lexmark 2019 Corporate Social Responsibility Report csr.lexmark.com 10 Our Approach Our Operations Our Imaging Solutions Our People & Partners Reporting Political Contributions and Lobbying Lexmark is committed to complying with local laws related to the disclosure of political dealings, such as those that require reporting political contributions to the appropriate state or federal political and ethics authorities, and publishing the information on their respective websites. From time to time, Lexmark employs the services of remunerated attorney and non-attorney advocates and consultants. These advocates provide Lexmark with legislative monitoring services, guidance on proposed and enacted legislation, and communication of the applicable Lexmark position on legislation to interested parties and stakeholders Gift and Gratuity Policy No Lexmark employee or member of his or her family may accept a gift or gratuity from a supplier or prospective supplier. However, a promotional gift of nominal value (no more than $25 or its equivalent in other currencies) may be given or accepted in the spirit of commercial politeness. Cash gifts of any kind are prohibited. Vision and Values Our employees have defined our vision and values. We live these concepts every day. More than mere words, these statements are truly a framework for how we operate. To learn more about our vision and values, see our Vision and Values page. Ethics Hotline The Lexmark Ethics Line (1-866-477-2029) is a 24-hour, international toll-free telephone number established to assist Lexmark employees with questions about the Code of Business Conduct or concerns that something improper or a violation of a rule has occurred or might be occurring. A third-party provider operates the Ethics Line. Where local laws allow, the third-party provider of the telephone lines is prohibited from providing a caller’s identity to Lexmark without the caller’s permission. Calls are directed primarily to the Internal Audit Director for investigation and review. Marketing Communications As stated in our Code of Business Conduct, “It is Lexmark’s policy to avoid any misstatement of fact or misleading impression in any of its advertising, literature, exhibits or other public statements.” It is the joint responsibility of the public relations, marketing or content development representative preparing the message, and of the technical experts, to verify that all statements are true and correctly supported. The accuracy of claims is also reviewed by our Legal Department and validated by the Product and Process Quality Assurance Team. We review our compliance with regulations and voluntary codes concerning marketing communications annually. Lexmark had no incidents of noncompliance with regulations or voluntary codes concerning marketing communications in 2019. Lexmark 2019 Corporate Social Responsibility Report csr.lexmark.com 11 Our Approach Our Operations Our Imaging Solutions Our People & Partners Reporting Risks, Opportunities & Impacts Lexmark’s social and environmental impacts are divided into three focus areas, and are addressed by corresponding product, operational and community initiatives. Product initiatives correspond to the environment and social benefits of the solutions we develop. These solutions help our customers reduce their environmental footprint, meet the accessibility needs of their workforce and operate in a more environmentally responsible manner. We continue to develop product features and solutions that offer our customers opportunities to reduce the environmental impact of their printing and imaging activities. These efforts are validated by third-party certifications, including the Electronic Product Environmental Assessment Tool (EPEAT), a method for consumers to evaluate the effect of a product on the environment. For more information, go to www.epeat.net. We have prioritized our Operational initiatives encompass all the activities we engage in to reduce our own encorporate community focus vironmental footprint at Lexmark facilities, and to make Lexmark a better employer and business partner through commitments to human rights and fair labor practices. on initiatives that support science, technology, Lexmark has made great progress reducing the environmental impacts of our operations. We are proficient at using our collaboration intranet system, conference calls, Webinars engineering, and math and video conferencing. These tools are being utilized worldwide and have enabled (STEM) education global conversations and increased productivity. improvement, and that We have prioritized our corporate community focus on initiatives that support science, promote diversity. technology, engineering, and math (STEM) education improvement, and that promote diversity. By concentrating Lexmark’s resources on improvements in these areas, we have made significantly more progress than by focusing on a broader range of issues. At Lexmark, we first make sure that we are complying with local statutes wherever we have operations. Then, we balance and prioritize our approach by assessing what needs to be done and how best to do it to meet the needs of all stakeholders as completely as possible. We continue to make significant strides in these focus areas. In 2019 and beyond, we will look for opportunities to strengthen the environmental and social benefits of our product offerings, improve the efficiency of our operations and deliver additional positive benefits to the communities where we live and work. Lexmark 2019 Corporate Social Responsibility Report csr.lexmark.com 12 Our Approach Our Operations Our Imaging Solutions Our People & Partners Reporting Risks and Opportunities Lexmark maintains a comprehensive and dynamic Enterprise Risk Management (ERM) program. Chaired by Lexmark’s Treasurer, and supported by a cross-functional committee of no less than 15 additional company leaders, the objective of Lexmark’s ERM process is to minimize the probability and potential cost of an adverse event impacting the company by collaboratively identifying, prioritizing, addressing (avoiding, accepting, mitigating), and regularly monitoring those risks to which the company is exposed. The committee submits periodic reports to executive management, including the Board of Directors. Our robust ERM program validates that executives and board members are informed and addressing key risks to the company. Corporate social responsibility (CSR) trends have driven Lexmark to evaluate the potential of physical risks and regulatory restrictions for our business and to consider potential opportunities to enhance and capitalize on our product offerings. Through this due diligence, we can help our customers achieve their own environmental sustainability and social responsibility goals. The most important risks and opportunities for Lexmark that are related to sustainability trends include the following: Environmental and Regulatory Matters For more information, please see and freight transporters are subject to Lexmark operations are subject to Return and Recycle. natural and man-made disasters, such as numerous laws and regulations; earthquakes, tsunamis, floods, hurricanes, specifically, those relating to Climate Change typhoons, fires, extreme weather environmental matters that impose The predictions about the impacts of conditions, environmental hazards, limitations on the discharge of pollutants climate change have led lawmakers power shortages, water shortages and and that establish protocols for the across the globe to take a precautionary telecommunications failures. Any of these treatment, storage and disposal of solid approach, proposing and implementing conditions can disrupt business and can and hazardous wastes. new regulations to guide governments, adversely affect our revenue and financial businesses and citizens in their efforts condition by increasing our costs and For more information, please see to reduce global warming. These expenses. For each of its sites, Lexmark Environmental Management and regulations can potentially impact all has a business continuity plan that Land and Biodiversity. businesses. Regulations requiring energy describes the risks of climate change. reductions are motivating consumers Electronic Waste Obligation and businesses to replace wasteful For more information, please see Energy, The Waste Electrical and Electronic equipment with energy-efficient products. Water, Greenhouse gas emissions, Product Equipment (WEEE) Directive issued by Lexmark recognizes that reducing energy energy use and Land and Biodiversity. the European Union requires producers consumption is one of the most effective of electrical and electronic goods to ways to reduce greenhouse gas emissions, Product Opportunities be financially responsible for specified a major contributor to climate change. Lexmark offers a wide range of collection, recycling, treatment and Lexmark’s environmental policies and environmentally beneficial and highly disposal of past and future products. programs support the reduction of accessible imaging devices that help Our estimated liability for these costs greenhouse gases in our own operations customers print less and meet the involves a number of uncertainties, and and those of our customers, partners and accessibility needs of their workforces. we consider certain assumptions and suppliers. Demand for such products can have a judgments that include average collection positive financial impact for Lexmark. costs, return rates, and product life Climate change and associated weather cycles. Should actual costs and activities disruptions can affect the operations of all For more information, please see differ from our estimates, revisions to the organizations. Our operations and those Product certifications. estimated liability might be required. of our manufacturing partners, suppliers, Lexmark 2019 Corporate Social Responsibility Report csr.lexmark.com 13 Our Approach Our Operations Our Imaging Solutions Our People & Partners Reporting CSR Awards & Recognition 2019 CSO50 Award for security initiatives 2019 NAFE Best Employers for Diversity 2019 NAFE Top Companies for executive women 2019 Working Mother 100 Best Companies Lexmark 2019 Corporate Social Responsibility Report csr.lexmark.com 14 Our Approach Our Operations Our Imaging Solutions Our People & Partners Reporting Key Performance Indicators For more information, see Previous KPI Progress. Lexmark 2019 Corporate Social Responsibility Report csr.lexmark.com 15 Our Operations For Lexmark, being a responsible neighbor, employer and global corporate citizen is woven into everything we do. It’s part of who we are as individuals and as a corporate community. Operating sustainably is part of Lexmark’s corporate vision and values. Using internationally recognized standards for environmental management at multiple sites helps us maintain focus on setting and achieving specific goals for environmental health and safety. Environmental reporting also helps Lexmark focus on areas of operation where processes may be improved, yielding benefit for the business and communities around us. Lexmark 2019 Corporate Social Responsibility Report csr.lexmark.com 16 Our Approach Our Operations Our Imaging Solutions Our People & Partners Reporting Environmental Management ISO 14001 is a voluntary standard that provides a framework for environmental management. Lexmark-owned and leased facilities have received ISO 14001 certification. These include all of our production locations and some research and development and administration facilities. All facilities that do not hold ISO 14001 certification attest to standard ISO 14001 Certificates conformance and adhere to the Lexmark Corporate Environmental, Health and Safety Instructions. Click here for a full list of ISO 14001 Certificates Each Lexmark facility sets site-specific goals for improving its performance within the environmental management system. Environmental goals include reducing energy consumption, improving water conservation, generating less waste, and improving emergency preparedness and response planning. Cross functional teams are established for each major manufacturing and development facility to support these efforts. Lexmark did not incur any non-monetary sanctions for noncompliance with environmental laws and regulations in the reporting period. No grievances about environmental impacts were filed through formal grievance mechanisms during the reporting period. An administrative error related to a paperwork issue that resulted in a minor fine in the amount of $1.7 thousand occurred in 2019. Lexmark 2019 Corporate Social Responsibility Report csr.lexmark.com 17 Our Approach Our Operations Our Imaging Solutions Our People & Partners Reporting Energy Consumption Lexmark continues to focus on maintaining efficient use of natural resources at our leased and owned manufacturing facilities, research and development facilities, and office spaces worldwide, tracking data since 2005 and meeting aggressive goals. We are targeting a 20 percent reduction in energy consumption by 2025. Total energy reductions Total energy Direct and indirect (Gigajoules) Lexmark 2019 Corporate Social Responsibility Report csr.lexmark.com 18 Our Approach Our Operations Our Imaging Solutions Our People & Partners Reporting Energy efficiency investments through the years Energy management programs at our Lexmark facilities assess energy usage on site and target projects that contribute to reductions in consumption. We have made several investments that are helping drive down usage worldwide. Lexington, KY, USA Lexmark’s investments in energy efficiency at headquarters have been significant. Our campus features a childcare facility, which received Gold certification for Leadership in Energy and Environmental Design (LEED) from the U.S. Green Building Energy data Council. Click here for detailed energy data Additional projects through the years include: • Upgrades to smart building management controls, including data analytics • Installation of frequency drives on air handling unit motors • Implementation of schedule for air handling units to minimize peak demands • Installation of energy efficient state-of-the-art chillers • Increased insulation on steam piping systems • Installation of a smaller summer boiler for steam • Upgrades to a deaerator tank • Space reductions • Lighting upgrades to more efficient bulbs In 2019, 35 light fixtures were upgraded to light emitting diode (LED), saving an estimated 7,400 kWh a year and $500 versus T8 fixtures. Cebu City, Philippines The facilities team in Cebu has realized significant energy savings over the years through lighting upgrades and implementation of an operation and preventive maintenance schedule for all major equipment, which minimizes equipment downtime and improves performance, especially for on-site chillers. The 50Hz motorgenerator operation was optimized in 2019 and the facilities team is in the process of eliminating compressed dry air leaks to improve the operation of compressors. In 2019, 653 LED lights were installed to replace compact fluorescent tubes (CFLs) as part of the multi-year lighting project. The estimated annual savings from this installation is 66,198.53 kWh and $9,501.44. Building management system software was upgraded in 2019 to provide real time monitoring and room temperature control based on established site guidelines. Existing window blinds were also replaced with block-out blinds designed to reduce heat generated from the glass windows to aid in room temperature control. Variable frequency drives (VFDs) installed on air handling units further reduce energy consumption. Additionally, employees are encouraged to be energy conscious and turn off lights and equipment when not in use. Kolkata, India The Kolkata site realized a 166,033-kWh savings in 2019. The outdoor Precision air conditioning units were regularly cleaned with air and water jets to increase building cooling efficiency. Lighting upgrades over the years have also contributed to energy savings. Juarez, Mexico The recycling operations building on the Juarez campus, Lexmark LCCP Building, is also (LEED) certified Gold. Lexmark 2019 Corporate Social Responsibility Report csr.lexmark.com 19 Our Approach Our Operations Our Imaging Solutions Our People & Partners Reporting The Juarez campus is highly focused on energy efficiency targets and continued to improve upon existing projects to garner savings. • Site facilities maintenance teams continued to reduce energy waste through the energy management of the compressed air systems. • Preventive and predictive maintenance programs are used to detect and correct compressed air leaks. • Energy management of chillers resulted in a smaller 350-ton chiller being used in place of a larger 900-ton piece of equipment. • A schedule for HVAC equipment to be turned off nights and weekends reduces energy usage when the site is not operating. • Fluorescent light fixtures were replaced with LED in the restrooms and the manufacturing area newly designated for Printer Assembly Operation. Energy awareness and education Lexmark educates employees on energy conservation in the workplace, encouraging everyone to turn off lights and electronics when not in use. Lexmark initiated a campaign to add or update signage to remind users of shared spaces to turn off lights when not in use. The use of space heaters, personal refrigerators, and personal printers, which increase energy use, are discouraged. Targets to reduce energy in the office are included in some of our incentive programs at Lexmark, providing a monetary incentive for employees when the overall annual energy goal is achieved. Some of our sites promote employee energy awareness through healthy living challenges, which provide monetary incentives for various levels of challenge participation. Electricity – Lexmark’s indirect energy source Lexmark operations use only one indirect energy source: the driver of its Scope 2 emissions, electricity. We primarily purchase electricity used at our facilities from local energy providers from local grids. The electricity supplied is generated by a variety of nonrenewable and renewable primary-energy sources, including coal, nuclear energy, solar power, wind power, geothermal energy and hydropower. We estimate the electrical power derived from renewable sources in 2019 to be 97,216 gigajoules,1 21.6 percent of the total indirect energy used. The total electrical power used that is derived from nonrenewable sources is estimated to be 353,775 gigajoules. Natural gas – Lexmark’s primary direct energy source Lexmark Scope 1 emissions are comprised of the following direct energy sources: natural gas, diesel fuel and gasoline. These nonrenewable energy sources are purchased from local vendors and then used to generate steam, power backup generators, provide heat to certain Lexmark facilities and provide fuel for leased/owned vehicles. We do not use renewable direct-energy sources such as biofuels (ethanol, for example) or hydrogen, nor do we produce renewable or nonrenewable primary energy sources for internal use or external markets. 1 1,066 gigajoules of renewable electrical power sourced from wind was purchased for use at the Boulder, CO, facility, which is included in the total estimated 2019 indirect renewable energy use derived from the area power grids. Lexmark 2019 Corporate Social Responsibility Report csr.lexmark.com 20 Our Approach Our Operations Our Imaging Solutions Our People & Partners Reporting Greenhouse Gas Emissions Lexmark is committed to operating responsibly, which includes tracking, reporting and reducing greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions. In 2015, we established a new baseline for Total GHG emissions business alignment and changes to the reporting boundary, setting a goal for the reduction of Scope 1 and 2 emissions. We are continuing to see great progress in lowering emissions in our operations as our employees find new and often innovative ways to avoid emissions in everyday processes in the scopes reported. To align with a climate change scenario well below 2 degrees Celsius above pre-industrial levels, Lexmark targets have been adjusted. Lexmark will be pursuing a more aggressive goal of lowering emissions, with a shortterm goal of reducing Scope 1 and 2 GHG emissions by 25 percent by 2025. Scope 3 emissions are reported separately from Scopes 1 and 2 to allow Scope 3 data Scope 1 and 2 expansion and goal-setting specific to (Metric tons CO2e) reduction efforts in our value chain. Please see KPIs for information on 2019 progress. Lexmark 2019 Corporate Social Responsibility Report csr.lexmark.com 21 Our Approach Our Operations Our Imaging Solutions Our People & Partners Reporting Emissions reporting Scope 1 emissions Scope 1 emissions (direct) include our use of fossil fuels, refrigerants and fleet vehicle transport based on available data. Greenhouse gas We use natural gas, diesel fuel and gasoline to generate steam, power backup emissions data generators, provide heat to certain Lexmark facilities and provide fuel for leased/owned Click here for detailed vehicles. GHG emissions data Lexmark is committed to the Montreal Protocol, an international treaty aimed at reducing the use of ozone-depleting chemicals. We prohibit the use of such chemicals in the manufacture and development of our products; however, we use some ozonedepleting chemicals—specifically refrigerants—for the heating, ventilation and airconditioning (HVAC) systems that cool our facilities. Lexmark cannot eliminate the use of refrigerants at this time because HVAC systems typically require the use of refrigerants Regulated air for cooling. Lexmark purchases chillers that use environmentally preferable refrigerants and monitors systems for leaks with stand-alone sensors. emissions data Click here for detailed In 2019, one reported refrigerant, R-22, had an ozone depletion potential greater than GHG emissions data zero, generating 0.02 CFC-11 equivalent metric tons of emissions. In total, 1,444 CO2e emissions were generated due to refrigerant losses, 664 generated by R-22. Scope 2 emissions Our Scope 2 emissions (indirect) consist of electricity used to power operations at our sites. We primarily purchase electricity generated by a variety of nonrenewable and renewable primary-energy sources, including coal, nuclear energy, solar power, wind power, geothermal energy and hydropower sourced from the local grid. Scope 3 emissions Lexmark is expanding Scope 3 emissions reporting to improve transparency. We have historically shared our business travel-related emissions and have highlighted our approach to avoid emissions in this category. We concentrate on sustainable resource consumption which naturally lends to emissions avoidance, although we have not been able to share impacts through data disclosure in the past. We will continue to take proactive steps towards emissions avoidance in Scope 3 and capture reductions through data disclosure and goal setting. 2019 Scope 3 emissions reported categories Category 1 Category 7 Purchased Goods and Services Employee Commuting Category 2 Category 9 Capital Goods Downstream Transport Category 4 Category 11 Upstream Transport Use of Sold Products Category 5 Category 12 Waste in Operations End of Life Treatment of Sold Products Category 6 Category 13 Business Travel Downstream Leased Assets Lexmark 2019 Corporate Social Responsibility Report csr.lexmark.com 22 Our Approach Our Operations Our Imaging Solutions Our People & Partners Reporting Travel and commute emissions Business travel-related emissions We are conscious of the impact business travel can have on the environment. At Lexmark we have collaborated with our vehicle provider and travel partner to calculate miles traveled with Lexmark-owned, -leased, and -rented vehicles. Air travel is also tracked through our travel partner, which has considerably expanded its scope of reporting. In 2019, Lexmark France participated in the BlueBiz CO2ZERO program. Through this program, companies can cash in blue credits earned from employee travel with Air France, KLM or Delta Air Lines to neutralize CO2 emissions of their flights. Lexmark's contribution helped invest in planting new trees, maintaining existing forests and supporting local communities in Panama through the reforestation project CO2OL Tropical Mix—offsetting 90.1 metric tons of CO2. We provide our employees lower-impact, real-time alternatives such as conference calls, Web-based meetings and videoconferencing to help avoid unnecessary travel. We have invested in audiovisual equipment in many conference locations to provide better communication through Web-based services. Employees are also encouraged to combine business trips and use public transportation rather than taxis and rental cars. Employee commute Lexmark recognizes that fuel used in our employees’ daily commute generates GHG emissions and therefore offers the following programs and/or benefits to help encourage environmentallypreferable commuting: • Lexmark’s manufacturing plant in Juarez, Mexico, provides bus transportation for manufacturing employees. • Lexmark’s Competence Center in Budapest, Hungary, has bike racks and showers for employees who pedal to work, and offers discounted monthly or yearly fares to those who prefer public transportation. • Lexmark’s headquarters in Lexington, Kentucky, has secure bike storage and showers, as well as a public bus stop located in the parking lot. Four electric car charging stations are in use at the Lexington campus. Each station is equipped with two charging points for registered employees and clients to use free of charge. Since the installation of the electric car charging stations, 25.8 metric tons of greenhouse gas emissions have been avoided, equivalent to the planting of 661 trees growing for 10 years. • Lexmark's site in Boulder, Colorado, works with Smart Commute Metro North to promote alternative commuting options for employees such as ride sharing, transit, and bicycle travel. • Lexmark’s U.S. benefits package includes WageWorks, which allows commuters taking public transportation to deduct their public transit and parking expenses as pretax funds, which can save employees between 25 and 40 percent. • Lexmark’s U.S. health and wellness program promotes healthier lifestyles, including sustainability awareness programs and provides the ability to create challenges, including those focused on greener commuting, such as bicycling to work. • Lexmark work-at-home programs are aimed at not only reducing the number of miles commuted, but also providing work-life balance for our employees. Worldwide logistics, product transportation and distribution Physical shipping of products worldwide and product handling and storage in distribution centers are a necessary part of Lexmark business. We have taken measures to lessen the environmental impacts associated with these activities, which includes working with environmentally progressive partners who apply innovative ideas, best practices and new technologies to their transportation and logistics processes. Lexmark is working to quantitatively report the impact of product logistics. Lexmark 2019 Corporate Social Responsibility Report csr.lexmark.com 23 Our Approach Our Operations Our Imaging Solutions Our People & Partners Reporting Transportation Awards SmartWay Lexmark has been a U.S. Environmental Protection Agency (EPA) SmartWay registered partner since September 2008. SmartWay, a collaborative program between the U.S. EPA and the freight industry, is chartered to increase the use of energy-efficient vehicles and has impressive goals to reduce GHGs and decrease air pollution. Supply Chain Innovation Award Lexmark was awarded a ML100 Award by Frost & Sullivan’s Manufacturing Leadership Council in Sustainability Leadership for outstanding achievement in the Supply Chain Leadership category. Lexmark’s winning project “Best Fitting Pallets Adoption,” focused on optimizing the pallet size to accommodate the maximum quantity of product to reduce waste and cost. Successful launch required the team to take several steps, including setting a minimum order quantity for distributors, partnering with the Lexmark sales team to convince the distributors to accept different-sized pallets, and implementing a fee per pallet for distributors that wanted to keep a standard size. Transport initiatives reducing impacts on product shipping Cube utilization and packaging Robust products and efficient packaging result in a smaller packaged footprint and increased cargo packaging efficiency. Continued improvements are being made in container and truck utilization/fill rate, which decreases the number of ocean containers, air cargo and less-than-full trucks needed to transport products. Intermodal freight transportation Shipping products by ocean, rail, air, inland water and roadways using intermodal freight containers for inbound moves saves us time, money and fuel. Lexmark achieves 95 percent intermodal inbound transport in the U.S. Direct ship / replenish Direct shipping for high volume products from factory to customer destination reduces the total miles products must travel, as well as handling and warehousing en route, providing a better customer delivery experience and environmental beneﬁts. We also see similar beneﬁts from direct replenishment—whereby the factory ships direct to the country distribution center, bypassing the centralized regional center and reducing miles, handling and cycle time. In 2019, Lexmark increased the number of direct ship products and expanded the program in multiple regions. Transportation Management Systems (TMSs) Multiple TMSs are used at our WW regional distribution centers to optimize product transportation. TMS optimization software selects the most effective mode of transportation, automates carrier selection, reduces air shipments, combines same-customer shipments, improves trailer ﬁll rate, decreases handling and travel distance and cuts logistics expenses while improving customer delivery. Inbound container optimization Lexmark’s strategy to combine inbound vendor shipments in ocean containers has resulted in improved space utilization in each container, a reduction in logistics expense and containers used, a smaller CO2 footprint, and improved delivery time. Lexmark 2019 Corporate Social Responsibility Report csr.lexmark.com 24 Our Approach Our Operations Our Imaging Solutions Our People & Partners Reporting Distribution initiatives driving improvements in warehousing sustainability • Lexmark makes efforts to reduce the space required for warehousing and distribution of our products. • Lexmark’s Reverse Logistics and Returns operations continue to improve returns processing and the capability to reduce the number of shipments and mileage, thereby reducing energy use related to returned goods. • Lexmark partners with best-in-class Third Party Logistics (3PL) warehouse providers who have a shared sustainability focus. Lexmark’s 3PL providers manage, monitor and execute on targeted goals in sustainability to reduce the use of electricity, natural gas, propane and water. They target improving and increasing recycling activities. They also manage their overall CO2 footprint. Lean manufacturing and regional manufacturing/customization • Lexmark uses a late manufacturing/late customization process for medium volume products in our regional distribution centers to be close to our customers, be flexible and efficient, provide a competitive advantage, and be more sustainable. Some of the benefits to this strategy are a reduction of space and inventory demand, a reduction of expedited and air freight, better container utilization footprint of shipments, a flexible manufacturing system, and customized customer solutions which include printer sustainability settings such as power settings, toner usage and longer life components. • Lexmark manufactured over 80 percent of cartridges in region of consumption in 2019, maintaining the high rate of regional manufacturing targeted. Regional manufacturing improves supply chain efficiency and helps Lexmark respond more quickly to customer needs. It also benefits the environment by reducing GHG emissions and providing jobs for people in the regions where our cartridges are used most. Regional manufacturing in Poland provides an example of avoided emissions. In 2019, sourcing in geography eliminated the need to ship an estimated 691 air and ocean cargo containers from Hong Kong, China, to Europe, which would have generated approximately 2,078 metric tons of greenhouse gas.1 • In 2019, Lexmark developed the capability to regionally manufacture hardware in North America. Innovative methods of emissions avoidance Product testing We test our products throughout their life cycle to ensure high quality. Realizing the impact of paper use on the environment, we are working to lessen this impact in our print testing. We use “paperless print” for some testing applications, which allows us to test certain features of our product without actually printing the page. This method of print testing helped us save over 800 trees in 2019 and avoid over 88,000 kg of CO2. Service delivery The service team at Lexmark proactively identifies issues with devices under contract, often providing a fix before a service intervention is required. If a call is made to our technical service center, priority is placed on resolving the problem via phone versus dispatching a technician. In addition to helping maintain customer satisfaction, our focus on “remote fix” helps reduce the number of miles traveled by our service teams, thus reducing GHG emissions. 1 Based on the carbon calculator at https://www.dhl-carboncalculator.com/ Lexmark 2019 Corporate Social Responsibility Report csr.lexmark.com 25 Our Approach Our Operations Our Imaging Solutions Our People & Partners Reporting Water Management Lexmark is focused on efficiently managing water usage at our facilities, exceeding 30 percent reduction in water withdrawal from 2015. We continue to strive for improvement and commit to reducing water withdrawal by 35 percent by 2025. Water is used as part of Lexmark operations for three primary purposes: manufacturing and development; heating, ventilating, and air-conditioning (HVAC) systems; and sanitation. Our water usage can vary due to the need to control temperature. As external temperatures rise, more water is needed to cool our facilities. While we cannot control the water usage related to external temperature, we can aggressively monitor, control and reduce water withdrawal where opportunities exist. Lexmark has identified four of our reporting facilities to be overall high risk or medium to high risk water locations per the Aqueduct Water Risk Atlas. This information encourages us to focus on the regions highlighted as having the highest risk and work to reduce or maintain low consumption. Water withdrawal Water management data Click here for detailed Water management data Lexmark 2019 Corporate Social Responsibility Report csr.lexmark.com 26 Our Approach Our Operations Our Imaging Solutions Our People & Partners Reporting Water management program Through the years, Lexmark has followed our corporate water plan which concentrates on multiple methods of saving water. As Lexmark assesses site water requirements and reporting boundaries, changes may occur on site; for example, designating new contacts for water management, utilizing fresh approaches to awareness of site water usage, and pursuing alternate water sourcing or conservation techniques. Water history piping, reduction in the number of fire processing capacity of 70 gallons per Lexmark has a long history of water pumps, site building reductions, and minute. An upgrade to expand this projects that have helped reduce water a successful partnership with Suez capacity, up to 90 gallons per minute, usage in our operations by well over 50 services have contributed to water is scheduled for 2020. Over the years, percent when compared to 2005. conservation. In recent years, Lexmark the water reuse infrastructure has has also reduced impermeable grown on campus. Water used in • Lexmark Cebu City, Philippines, surfaces on site by 1,475,000 square HVAC equipment, toner fill operations focuses on preventive and corrective feet through multiple activities, and LCCP production, as well as maintenance of the water system, including building demolition, reject water from the reverse osmosis and works to engage employees in property sale and conversion of equipment in the main cafeteria is awareness activities to conserve 256,665 square feet of parking space reused. Cooling tower basins are water and report leaks. Major water to green space. In 2019, the cooling isolated to help prevent water loss projects over the years have included towers used 25,454 m3 rainwater from evaporation. Restrooms located the installation of sensor-operated collected through the rainwater on the production floor and other faucets and toilet bowls and the harvesting system. areas have been retrofitted with interconnection of the water supply waterless modes. between the two buildings on site to • Juarez, Mexico, continues to refine reduce water waste. processes related to water use on • Recycled water is used by the landlord site. Lexmark's Physical Chemical for the central air conditioning system • In Lexington, Kentucky, more efficient Wastewater Treatment Plant is the and contributes to sustained water HVAC systems, installation of lowlargest installed in the industrial efficiency at the Lexmark facility in flow plumbing fixtures, upgrades to sector of Juarez City, with a Kolkata. Lexmark 2019 Corporate Social Responsibility Report csr.lexmark.com 27 Our Approach Our Operations Our Imaging Solutions Our People & Partners Reporting Water harvesting and reuse not needed for immediate use is stored engineering firms for projects that Lexmark values water reuse and for later use. The naturally soft water is demonstrate an exceptional degree of harvesting and has found ways to used in Lexmark’s cooling towers, reducing innovation, complexity, achievement, and implement projects with this focus at the need for chemically treated water. In value. multiple locations. 2019, harvested rainwater supplied 67 percent of the water needed for the tower Lexmark employees in Cebu, Philippines, Infrastructure upgrades to the wastewater processes. continue to make an impact on water treatment plant continued to provide great usage in their community through the results at Lexmark’s campus in Juarez, Lexmark’s rainwater retention area has rainwater harvesting system they designed Mexico. The system generated 59,189 m3 some bioremediation value and acts and installed for the Lexmark Gawad of water for reuse in other areas, including as a retention pond in slowing rainfall Kalinga beneficiaries. The water collected irrigation, representing 35 percent of total runoff in conditions when excess flow is during rain events can be used by the water used at the facility. discharged to the creek. In the vein of locals for watering plants and cleaning. In sustainable resource consumption, the 2019, employees followed up with a project Lexmark installed a bioretention and pavement, rock and soil removed for the to install a meter on this system to monitor rainwater harvesting system in Lexington, project was reused or recycled. Existing water use. They also provided plumbing Kentucky, in cooperation with Lexington pipes and tanks already in place were assistance to this community by fixing Fayette Urban County Government recommissioned for use in this project to water leaks via piping upgrades in an area (LFUCG), EcoGro, Ridgewater, Stantec and gain further savings. supplying 105 households with water. the University of Kentucky. In 2019, the American Council of Additionally, employees in Cebu designed While larger in scale than the Engineering Companies of Kentucky (ACECand installed another rainwater catchment three traditional rain gardens at the KY) awarded the rainwater harvesting system with a 1,000-liter tank capacity to Lexington site, the rainwater harvesting design-build team the Grand Conceptor support at least 20 families in Cantipla system acts in much the same way as Award in Waste and Storm Water, the Barangay, whose water source is a spring these smaller rain gardens. The depression organization's top honor in the state of located 300 meters away by vehicle. in the ground collects rainwater and Kentucky. ACEC-KY's annual Engineering filters it through a layer of sand. Water Excellence Awards competition recognizes How Rainwater harvesting works Lexmark 2019 Corporate Social Responsibility Report csr.lexmark.com 28 Our Approach Our Operations Our Imaging Solutions Our People & Partners Reporting Water donation Water withdrawal and water quality. These plans cover Lexmark Cebu, in coordination with the Lexmark is concerned with the origin of our multiple pollution routes, including Bureau of Fire Protection and Filipino sourced water and where it ends up. We discharges to ground, air and water. Chinese Volunteer Fire Brigade, has understand that access to clean, abundant Pollution prevention plans are in place provided water to responding fire trucks and affordable water is a critical issue. at all Lexmark-owned manufacturing during emergencies since 2014. To date, We also understand that our commitment and research and development facilities a total of 134 fire trucks were provided to responsible use of our water resources worldwide. water to assist with fire emergencies in and protection of local watersheds helps neighboring communities. In 2019, Lexmark to ensure that our local communities Lexmark reported no significant spills in contributed 70 m3 of water. have access to these water resources. 2019. In an effort to continually improve Most Lexmark facilities withdraw water our processes, we record and investigate Water quality exclusively from municipal water supplies all spills—regardless of size or impact—as Lexmark, in partnership with multiple and other water utilities. directed by site ISO 14001 and ISO45001/ stakeholders including UK Coldstream OHSAS 18001 management systems and Research Campus, UK Biosystems and Water discharge other corrective and preventive action Agricultural Engineering Department and Wastewater from Lexmark operations is programs. Water discharges (whether LFUCG Division of Water Quality, received primarily discharged to local utility systems planned or unplanned) that are destined a grant to conduct a feasibility study for for treatment. Water not discharged to the for the local utility or nearby bodies the installation of an in-stream floatable local utility systems is absorbed into the of water are closely monitored by site trash collection system to be placed in soil when weather demands require care facilities and environmental teams that a tributary of the Cane Run Creek, an for landscaping, or evaporated from ontest for water quality. impaired stream, that flows through the site cooling towers. Lexmark property in Lexington, Kentucky. Lexmark has long supported creek cleanup To prevent negative impacts on the efforts, realizing the impact that trash environment, Lexmark has established siteand waste in the creek has on the quality specific pollution prevention plans that of water in the watershed. The trash encompass compliance with applicable collection system would float on top of the environmental regulations; outline waterway in an area where trash is known Lexmark’s proactive pollution prevention to accumulate and capture the waste for efforts; and address spill prevention, periodic removal. hazardous waste management, recycling, Water sources Lexmark facility Utility Provider Original Sources of Water* Kentucky River, Jacobson Reservoir and Lexington, Kentucky, United States Kentucky American Water Lake Ellerslie Barker Reservoir, Lakewood Reservoir, Boulder, Colorado, United States City of Boulder Utilities Division Boulder Reservoir and Carter Lake via the Boulder Feeder Canal Junta Municipal de Agua Juarez, Chihuahua, Mexico Hueco Bolson, underground aquifer Saneamiento de Juárez Cebu, Philippines Metropolitan Cebu Water District (MCWD) Luyang River Ganges River processed through osmosis Kolkata, India DLF IT Park via local municipality water treatment plant Multiple sources, but water from the Budapest, Hungary Fövárosi Vízmüvek Danube River (from wells located near the river) dominates the supply Pearl River—the biggest river in Shenzhen, China Shenzhen Water Company south China * To the best of our knowledge, none of these bodies of water is recognized by professionals to be particularly sensitive due to their relative size, function or status as a rare, threatened, or endangered system. In addition, none supports a particular endangered species of plant or animal, or is considered a nationally or internationally proclaimed conservation area. None of these water sources is significantly affected by Lexmark water usage. Lexmark 2019 Corporate Social Responsibility Report csr.lexmark.com 29 Our Approach Our Operations Our Imaging Solutions Our People & Partners Reporting Waste Management Sustainable waste management At Lexmark, we’re committed to disposing waste generated by our worldwide facilities in a safe and responsible manner. Our facilities measure and report our generated waste Our goal is to maintain a minimum and disposal methods to ensure we are making progress in our overall waste-reduction of 75% recycling1 rate for waste efforts. Waste management programs at our offices and manufacturing sites promote generated in 2019. recycling and provide guidance to ensure our waste is responsibly managed. Business waste management and recycling programs Lexmark has established waste management and recycling programs at all our facilities worldwide. Each Lexmark manufacturing or research and development facility has a written plan to address the appropriate handling of waste generated at the site. The plan addresses the handling, storage and/or transportation of waste that is considered hazardous and non-hazardous. The wastes are managed according to international best practice and follow all governmental regulations. Lexmark continually works toward reducing the quantity of waste generated. Lexmark decreases our waste production by reducing waste at the source and recycling and treating waste in an environmentally safe manner. Our facilities minimize waste through sustainable operations, lean manufacturing techniques and environmental management programs. Waste generation and recycling statistics We achieved a 78% recycling rate Lexmark generated a total of 11,441 metric tons of waste in 2019, with 98 percent of for waste generated in 2019. the waste generated worldwide being non-hazardous. 2 Hazardous waste accounts for approximately 2 percent of Lexmark total waste. The primary hazardous waste materials are residues from manufacturing and development processes. Hazardous waste that is generated by Lexmark research and development, and manufacturing facilities is managed by external companies that specialize in the management of hazardous waste. Lexmark’s owned manufacturing and development site programs collect, recycle and reuse these materials: Lexmark 2019 Corporate Social Responsibility Report csr.lexmark.com 30 Our Approach Our Operations Our Imaging Solutions Our People & Partners Reporting Waste generation by classification Waste management data Click here for detailed waste management data. Waste recycling manufacturing), paper waste (print testing) or printers and other Disposal methods for waste are determined through the collabelectronic components (performance and quality testing). orative efforts of Lexmark and our waste-management partners. Working together, we have identified new opportunities for recyTo eliminate hazards to human health and the environment from cling waste, reducing our usage of incineration and landfill while fires and releases of these waste products, each chemical usage increasing usage of waste-to-energy recovery where other recyfacility provides controls for chemical, petroleum and waste cling options are unavailable. Since 2007, Lexmark has increased storage tanks. The tanks are installed, operated, inspected and its waste recycling and reuse rate from 63 percent to 78 percent. removed according to the specific and applicable governmental In 2019, Lexmark achieved a recycling rate of 78 percent with 13 regulations. We limit the environmental impact of collected waste percent of our total waste reused. by giving it a second life. Chemical waste is primarily processed into usable heat, electricity or fuel through energy recovery. Toner Development and production waste management and recycling waste is used as an asphalt additive to improve its quality and The development, quality testing and manufacturing of Lexmark performance. Paper from print testing is recycled into innovative imaging devices can result in the generation of unique waste paper products. Materials from used cartridges are reused or streams. Waste from development and production is characterized recycled. as chemical waste (toner, component development and Waste treatment by disposal method 1 Recycling includes compost, recycle and reuse disposal methods. 2 Waste data is from 100% of Lexmark’s owned development and manufacturing sites based on square feet. Lexmark 2019 Corporate Social Responsibility Report csr.lexmark.com 31 Our Approach Our Operations Our Imaging Solutions Our People & Partners Reporting Supply Chain Responsibility At Lexmark, we work closely with our suppliers to ensure our products and services have a positive impact on people, communities, and the environment. We choose suppliers who share our vision of corporate citizenship and agree to conform to Lexmark’s expectations and standards. We monitor the performance and compliance of our suppliers by analyzing on a regular basis their social, environmental and economic data. Our membership and participation since 2009 in the Responsible Business Alliance (RBA) has further strengthened our organizational efforts in support of human rights, labor standards, and other corporate social responsibility values. Lexmark has adopted and actively pursues conformance to the Lexmark Supplier Code of Conduct supplemented by the RBA Code of Conduct. Compliance with the Lexmark Supplier Code of Conduct and RBA Lexmark’s Supplier Code of Conduct defines our expectations for suppliers regarding ethical behavior, sustainable environmental practices, and protection of the health, safety, dignity and fundamental rights of all workers. Lexmark suppliers are expected to abide by the Supplier Code of Conduct and the following standards: • RBA Code of Conduct • United Nations (UN) Global Compact • UN Guiding Principles on Business and Human Rights • Universal Declaration of Human Rights and UN connected conventions • ILO Declaration on Fundamental Principles and Rights at Work • OECD Guidelines for Multinational Enterprises In accordance with RBA guidelines, Lexmark conducts third-party audits for several of our Tier 1 suppliers to monitor compliance in these areas. The RBA Code of Conduct sets forth performance, compliance, auditing and Supply chain responsibility program at Lexmark reporting guidelines across five areas The Lexmark Vice President of Global Supply Chain and Planning is the senior person of social responsibility. responsible for delivering on our environmental, social and governance (ESG) objectives. At the operational level, the management of Global Sourcing and Supplies Operations has responsibility for implementing the ESG objectives. Lexmark procurement staff have received training in ESG issues related to our procurement processes. Lexmark procurement personnel also have access to a database of supplier information that includes the suppliers' ESG commitments, as well as their performance metrics. All Lexmark staff that engage with suppliers are expected to consider the ESG impacts of engaging with a supplier prior to entering into a relationship Lexmark 2019 Corporate Social Responsibility Report csr.lexmark.com 32 Our Approach Our Operations Our Imaging Solutions Our People & Partners Reporting with the supplier. Our goal is to maintain a minimum of 80% of our supplies regionally sourced Sustainability is integrated with the Lexmark supplier selection and retention processes. in 2019. Lexmark provides incentives for suppliers to adhere to RBA guidelines by offering long-term contracts, collaborating on production volumes, consolidating suppliers and partnering on development projects. Locations Lexmark sourcing teams are encouraged to select suppliers that are near the location where their products will be used—such as near a manufacturing location—when possible. The use of locally based suppliers is both environmentally and financially preferable, resulting in positive local impacts. Lexmark supplies are strategically produced in local economies near our customers. We produce supplies in Poland to meet the needs of our customers in Europe. Lexmark sources supplies for Asia Pacific from China, and our manufacturing plant in Mexico produces supplies for Latin America and North America. In 2019, Lexmark installed regional hardware manufacturing in North America. Manufacturing products regionally We regionally sourced 86% near our distribution centers not only allows our customers to receive needed supplies of our supplies in 2019. faster, it provides an opportunity for our customers to recycle their supplies closer to home. 1 Key and strategic suppliers are those with spend over $1 million and goods and/or Key and strategic suppliers services critical to Lexmark operations. Key and strategic suppliers account for a significant percentage of Lexmark total procurement spending. Based on 2019 spending, the 96 key and strategic suppliers make up about 48 percent of our purchases.1 Accountability To better understand corporate social responsibility (CSR) risks in the supply chain, Lexmark analyzes the spending behavior of that chain, evaluating basic information (total number of suppliers, geographic spread, and so on), as well as social and environmental aspects such as supplier diversity and environmental factors. These spending analyses are conducted with specially developed datacollection tools and are conducted in collaboration with consultants specializing in supply chain analyses. Lexmark 2019 Corporate Social Responsibility Report csr.lexmark.com 33 Our Approach Our Operations Our Imaging Solutions Our People & Partners Reporting Our spending-analysis process creates ongoing discussions between rights, fair-employment opportunities Over the last nine years, 100 percent Lexmark and its suppliers so that we can and open channels of communication. of Lexmark procurement spending was document our progress on environmental subject to our spending-analysis process. and social initiatives, and helps us explore • Verification—Lexmark inspects Through this process, we have identified how we can improve as responsible for compliance through supplier critical suppliers–our high-volume, highcorporate citizens. assessments, operation reviews, risk spending suppliers, suppliers of critical management and third-party audit components and unique or sole source Conflict minerals systems. suppliers. Lexmark has over 6,000 Lexmark is committed to responsible suppliers, 1.6 percent of which have been global sourcing of the minerals in our • Audit—Lexmark monitors and audits identified as key and strategic.1 products. As a member of the Responsible its facilities and select partners’ Business Alliance (RBA), we perform facilities by questioning about Risk management due diligence to reasonably assure that labor and human rights policies Less than 1 percent of our suppliers are conflict minerals (tantalum, tin, tungsten and procedures to ensure that determined to be high risk. Based on and gold) and cobalt in the products we forced, bonded, trafficked, slave or how critical the risk is, Lexmark conducts manufacture do not directly or indirectly involuntary prison labor is not being a deeper analysis of economic (cash finance or benefit armed groups that used. management), environmental (weatherare perpetrators of serious human rights related), and social (war and political abuses in the Democratic Republic of the • Training—Lexmark provides training instability) risk factors. Congo or an adjoining country. Lexmark is on the RBA Code of Conduct to also a member of the Responsible Minerals employees in procurement who have These risks are managed in part through Initiative (RMI). RMI’s tools provide direct responsibility for supply chain the RBA Code of Conduct. This code Lexmark guidance in responsible mineral management. prescribes best practices related to sourcing in our supply chain. environmental performance in operations, • Accountability—Lexmark suppliers are human rights (forced or child labor, As part of its responsible sourcing required by contract to operate in full freedom of association, International efforts, Lexmark conducts a country compliance with laws and regulations, Labour Organization conventions), working of origin inquiry to determine whether including those regarding human conditions (working hours, layoff practices, a conflict mineral originated in the trafficking and slavery in countries remuneration), occupational health and Democratic Republic of the Congo or an of operation or where products are safety and business ethics (corruption, adjoining country. Lexmark, as well as its distributed. anti-competitive practices). To improve subcontractors and suppliers, discloses its business practices and assist companies in reasonable country of origin inquiry of tin, For more details read our Human identifying risks and driving improvements, tungsten, tantalum, gold and cobalt used Trafficking and Slavery Statement. self-audits and site audits are conducted in the manufacture of Lexmark products. in conformance with the RBA Code of Lexmark also requires a due diligence Diversity Conduct, laws, and regulations. declaration identifying the list of smelters Lexmark strives to encourage and afford used within a supplier’s supply chain. opportunities to minority suppliers. The Demonstrating improvement This information must be submitted along Lexmark Supplier Diversity Program is Lexmark requests information from its with the supplier’s due diligence process. founded on Lexmark values of mutual suppliers to determine their policies and Suppliers must report the results using respect, corporate citizenship and principles that protect the environment the RBA template, or Lexmark-approved integrity. Diverse businesses make up and promote social responsibility. We similar template. Click here for the Conflict a vital segment of the economy, and, encourage suppliers to demonstrate Minerals Report of Lexmark and click here therefore, supporting diverse businesses continual improvement through the for the Cobalt Report. are advantageous to our financial completion of the RBA Self-Assessment performance and our community. Questionnaire (SAQ) or Lexmark Supplier Human trafficking and slavery Sustainability Questionnaire. Lexmark has implemented the following Our global sourcing efforts with veteranpractices to prevent human trafficking owned small businesses helped Lexmark The Lexmark Supplier Sustainability and slavery. Our practices and procedures earn the distinction of a Military Friendly Questionnaire provides us greater uphold the human rights and labor policies Employer for the fifth year in a row and understanding and transparency of the and principles in our supply chain. placement on the Military Friendly Supplier CSR initiatives of the key suppliers of • Standards—Lexmark upholds and Diversity Program list. This recognition goods and services that support our respects international human rights resulted from a leading survey by Victory operations. The questionnaire input standards that promote workers’ Media that recognizes companies with Lexmark 2019 Corporate Social Responsibility Report csr.lexmark.com 34 Our Approach Our Operations Our Imaging Solutions Our People & Partners Reporting the strongest job opportunities and best-in-class hiring and retention programs for Our vision is to create strategic transitioning service members and spouses seeking civilian employment. Click here partnerships with qualified diverse to view our supplier diversity ratings based on our efforts to create sustainable and suppliers. We believe this provides meaningful benefits for the military community. us the greatest opportunity to develop innovative and costHow the supplier diversity program works effective business solutions and Lexmark sets goals annually to increase contracting opportunities for eligible minority at the same time, strengthen suppliers. These goals are reviewed to determine if they are attainable and represent a our company, customers, and meaningful contribution to the Lexmark supplier diversity program. Lexmark employees community. Supplier diversity brings are encouraged to take an active role in supporting the supplier diversity program by different strengths and values ensuring that diverse-owned vendors are encouraged and given an opportunity to do and a competitive advantage for business with Lexmark. our company. What we buy • Construction: New work, additions, alterations or maintenance and repairs services • Manufacturing: Packaging, molded plastics, chemicals • Printing: Labels, business cards Michelle Rawlings • Office Supplies: Furniture, office supplies Vice President, • Consulting/Professional Services: Photography, translation, environmental consulting Global Sourcing and Planning, services Lexmark • Professional Equipment: MRO/Lab supplies • Administrative Services: Facilities support services, temporary staff services • Educational Services: Instruction and training services Who is eligible • All Small Business (including ANCs and Indian Tribes) • Small Disadvantaged Business • Women-Owned Small Business • Veteran-Owned Small Business • HUBZone Small Business • Service-disabled Veteran-Owned Small Business • LGBTQ-Owned Small Business Program requirements • Certification by a third-party agency • The company must be at least 51 percent owned and operated by a United States citizen who is a member of one of mentioned groups Business trade organizations Lexmark is member of DiversityInc and sponsor of the Lexington, Kentucky, Chamber of Commerce and Minority Business Expo. Diverse supplier registration Click here for the Supplier Registration Form. Email the completed form to supplierdiv@lexmark.com. This data will be used to provide a list of diverse suppliers to the appropriate Lexmark decision maker. 1 Key and strategic suppliers are those with spend over $1 million and goods and/or services critical to Lexmark operations. Lexmark 2019 Corporate Social Responsibility Report csr.lexmark.com 35 Our Approach Our Operations Our Imaging Solutions Our People & Partners Reporting Land & Biodiversity Lexmark strives to ensure that our operations do not harm the local environment. Understanding our responsibility to help maintain balance in the natural world, we engage our communities primarily in reforestation programs and watershed protection. Lexmark owns or leases facilities used for manufacturing and research and development in the United States, Mexico, Europe and Asia. An important prerequisite for locating these global facilities includes a thorough understanding of local ecology and biological issues so that we can take a prudent approach to their protection. Consequently, an important part of our worldwide environmental assessment is the use of internationally accepted evaluation tools. As the first step to establishing a facility in the United States or abroad, Lexmark applies the following standards to assess environmental aspects of the site: American Society for Testing and Materials (ASTM) E1527-131 and E1903-11. 2 We also consider the protection status and biodiversity value of those areas where we plan to operate. With the exception of an operational site in the Philippines described A registered Monarch Waystation below, Lexmark does not own, lease or manage operational sites in or adjacent at Lexmark headquarters provides to protected areas, or areas of high biodiversity value outside protected areas. In a food source and habitat for addition, our activities do not result in significant impacts on biodiversity in these monarch butterflies and other types of areas. We also do not own, lease or manage operational sites in areas where pollinators. habitat restoration has occurred or in habitat protected areas. Finally, Lexmark does not operate in areas that are known to be protected or home to International Union for Conservation of Nature (IUCN) Red List species or national conservation list species and has no plans to operate in these areas. Lexmark is especially sensitive to the environment in our Philippines operations. Many global organizations recognize the entire country as an area of high biodiversity. The Lexmark Research and Development Corporation (LRDC) located in Cebu, Philippines, is a 30,817 square meter research and development operation. Lexmark employees in the Philippines work diligently to restore habitats near these facilities, focusing on reforestation and watershed protection. Since 2008, Lexmark has planted 138,000 mangrove trees in various coastal and watershed areas of Cebu and nearly 17,000 tree seedlings in various areas of Cebu. 1 ASTM E1527-13, Standard Practice for EnvironMangroves are beneficial to the environment; they provide shelter and food for sea mental Site Assessments: Phase I Environmental Site Assessment Process, ASTM International, life, stabilize coastlines by reducing erosion, and protect coastal communities from West Conshohocken, PA, 2013, www.astm.org storm surges. 2 ASTM E1903-11, Standard Practice for Environmental Site Assessments: Phase II Environmental Site Assessment Process, ASTM International, West Conshohocken, PA, 2011, www.astm.org Lexmark 2019 Corporate Social Responsibility Report csr.lexmark.com 36 Our Imaging Solutions Lexmark concentrates efforts on the design, manufacture, delivery and use of products that can be employed in an environmentally and socially responsible manner. The Lexmark product portfolio is a dynamic mix of software, electronic data tools, long-lasting hardware, and management services. As our company continues to evolve, our commitment to being a leader in global citizenship through our thoughts and actions remains a guiding principle for our business. Lexmark 2019 Corporate Social Responsibility Report csr.lexmark.com 37 Our Approach Our Operations Our Imaging Solutions Our People & Partners Reporting Circular Economy Circular economy leader Lexmark is developing products to transform the way our customers consume goods. Lexmark actively participates in a circular economy by designing cartridges that stay in use longer, incorporate recycled materials and protect natural resources by reducing waste. As a leading remanufacturer of printer cartridges, we understand that the adoption of circular economy principles promotes innovation and economic growth in a more environmentally sustainable manner. Our long-standing support for the circular economy and remanufacturing initiatives is evident in Lexmark’s founding membership in the European Remanufacturing Council (CER). The Council brings together businesses from every product sector to share knowledge and seek changes to policy with the aim of making remanufacturing a normal part of a product life cycle. Members in the CER aim to triple the value of Europe’s remanufacturing sector to over $100 billion by 2030. Remanufacturing plays a crucial part within the circular economy and helps companies retain valuable materials. Lexmark is also a member of the Ellen MacArthur Foundation, working with other companies to rethink and redesign our products in the framework of a circular economy. As a member we are designing products to enable remanufacturing as well as forming partnerships with the option of product take-back. Lexmark works with recyclers to reclaim parts that can be used to refurbish printers, which keeps the printers in service longer and reduces the need to recycle used hardware. Devices that are returned to Lexmark go through a process that assesses if they can be refurbished for reuse, and if not, they are harvested for parts that can be used in the refurbishment process. Better than New To assist our innovative efforts in remanufacturing and to promote a circular business model, the European Union Framework Program for Research & Development awarded Lexmark a Horizon 2020 research and innovation grant under agreement Nº 776714 to participate in the C-SERVEES project. Selected from over 100 applicants, this grant allows Lexmark to work with other C-SERVEES project participants to develop an innovative circular economic business model for the electrical and electronic (EE) sector. The objective of the C-SERVEES project participants is to transform the EE sector into an efficient circular economy using new processes and novel information technology solutions. To encourage the use of recycled plastic, Lexmark accepted the European Commission's call for action in Annex III of the European Strategy for Plastics. Lexmark is one of 70 companies and businesses voluntary pledging to use more recycled plastics in Europe and to ensure by 2025 ten million tons of recycled plastics find their way into new products. Lexmark is an industry leader in the use of reclaimed plastic with 21 percent average post-consumer recycled (PCR) plastic content, by weight, across all new Lexmark branded toner cartridges. Lexmark’s goal is to increase the post-consumer recycled plastic content in our toner cartridges to 25 percent by 2022. Lexmark 2019 Corporate Social Responsibility Report csr.lexmark.com 38 Our Approach Our Operations Our Imaging Solutions Our People & Partners Reporting Our commitment to remanufacturing is recognized by prominent supporters of sustainable manufacturing. The European Commission’s report on “The case of re-usability of printer cartridges” concludes that “Lexmark appears to be the clear market leader in printer cartridge reuse, presenting a comprehensive set of re-use statistics.” Lexmark has also been included in CR Magazine’s 100 Best Corporate Citizens list, and received Manufacturing Leadership awards in sustainability leadership for reuse and reconditioning efforts. Our endeavors most recently resulted in an EcoVadis Gold level rating for the sixth consecutive year. This recognition was based on an assessment of over 40,000 companies from 120 countries in areas including corporate social responsibility and the environment. Remanufacturing role model Lexmark’s design efforts focus on creating products to solve our customers’ challenges while benefiting society and the environment. Lexmark’s line of Corporate Cartridges helps our customers print sustainably by using a combination of new and recycled components to minimize their environmental footprint without compromising on quality. Corporate Cartridges offer the highest cartridge yields available, resulting in customers’ ability to print more pages with fewer cartridges while minimizing waste. The program also guarantees zero landfill by providing Lexmark’s recycling container as a free and easy way to return and recycle empty cartridges. Free collection services are available in more than 60 countries, representing more than 90 percent of Lexmark’s global market. Cartridges returned to our manufacturing facilities through our Lexmark Cartridge Collection Program (LCCP) are disassembled, and then components suitable for reuse are selected and used in the production of Corporate Cartridges. Innovative processes created by our engineers recover post-consumer recycled (PCR) plastic from empty cartridges and pelletize the PCR for integration into new parts. Reclaimed PCR plastic is incorporated into over 60 Lexmark components at a level up to 100 percent PCR plastic. Each year LCCP prevents millions of Lexmark toner cartridges from ending up in landfill. In 2019, LCCP collected 7,123 metric tons of returned cartridges from our customers. 96 percent of materials reclaimed from these cartridges were reused or recycled. Energy was generated from 4 percent of toner waste collected. Long-life products Lexmark not only offers a sustainable program to recycle our products, we also provide customers a family of high quality and long-lasting products. Our long-life imaging components, which can last up to 150,000 pages depending on customer usage, minimize the need to replace parts. An ultra-durable coating used in the photoconductor unit provides excellent print quality throughout its extended life. Cartridge design improvements reduce toner waste by up to 50 percent over our previous product generation, resulting in higher efficiency and yield. Plus, an advanced auto color retract feature pulls color printing components away during monochrome printing to prevent unnecessary wear. The long-life components save resources, reduce waste and require less maintenance, improving our customers’ efficiency. For more information on how Lexmark designs our products for extended life click here. Continually improving the way we do business Lexmark affirms our commitment to designing out waste and pollution through collaboration with organizations supporting the circular economy business model. Company-wide innovation has led to the discovery of reuse and recycle techniques novel to our industry. We strive to maximize resource efficiency by increasing our interests in remanufacturing and empowering our customers to protect natural resources by joining our efforts. Lexmark 2019 Corporate Social Responsibility Report csr.lexmark.com 39 Our Approach Our Operations Our Imaging Solutions Our People & Partners Reporting Product Certifications Multi-attribute environmental standards Lexmark products are designed to meet or exceed the strict criteria of some of the world’s most prominent standards and certifications. These certifications may require testing, analysis, audit, third-party review, standard declaration or disclosure of business or product information. ISO 14024—Type I environmental labeling Lexmark has a long history of designing print systems to meet the Blue Angel standard for environmental performance. The Blue Angel ecolabel, originating in Germany, was established in 1978 and is one the most prestigious environmental certifications worldwide. The Blue Angel criteria are regularly reviewed and revised—the most recent revision being DE-UZ 205, January 2017. The majority of Lexmark print systems announced after October 2012 have been Blue Angel certified. For a list of Lexmark models that are Blue Angel certified, click here. Lexmark pursues other voluntary product environmental certifications worldwide, including China certifications HJ 2512-2012 and HJ/T 424-2017, Korea Eco-label and Taiwan Green Mark. ISO 14021—Type II self-declared environmental claims The Eco Declaration (ECMA-370) Formerly known as IT Eco Declarations, ECMA-370 declarations provide objective and comparable environmental information. Lexmark signed the original Industry Voluntary Agreement to Improve the Environmental Performance of Imaging Equipment Placed on the European Market in June 2011, and the updated agreement in April 2015. Manufacturers are required to make product environmental performance data publicly available, such as through The Eco Declaration (ECMA-370). To view Lexmark’s declarations, click here. To request IT Eco Declarations specifically for our laser print supplies, please contact sustainability@lexmark.com. Electronic Product Environmental Assessment Tool (EPEAT) Lexmark is committed to helping our customers meet their energy and resource efficiency goals by providing products that are environmentally preferable. The EPEAT program is one resource used to recognize products that meet this qualification. EPEAT uses the IEEE 1680.2 standard as the basis for assessing imaging equipment for environmental stewardship. We have registered over 200 of our products with Gold or Silver ratings—the highest ratings available. As part of the EPEAT verification process, audits are conducted by third-party laboratories and an outside certification body to ensure full compliance to the IEEE 1680.2 standard. For a complete list of Lexmark registered products, click here. Lexmark 2019 Corporate Social Responsibility Report csr.lexmark.com 40 Our Approach Our Operations Our Imaging Solutions Our People & Partners Reporting Energy standards ENERGY STAR® Lexmark is committed to designing energy efficient products and uses ENERGY STAR requirements for imaging equipment as a guideline when developing products. Launched in 1992, ENERGY STAR is the globally recognized program of the U.S. Environmental Protection Agency and the U.S. Department of Energy that awards certification to the most energy efficient models in a product category. The majority of Lexmark products maintain ENERGY STAR qualification year after year. In 2019, over 98 percent of Lexmarkbranded products sold held the latest version of certification. The ENERGY STAR specification evolves requirements to drive continued energy improvements, and Lexmark seeks recertification to the latest available specification. Lexmark actively participated in the development of the Version 3.0 ENERGY STAR Production Specification for Imaging Equipment and transitioned to the new version of the standard in 2019. For more information on ENERGY STAR and a listing of certified Lexmark products, click here. EC 801 EC 801/2013 is the implementing measure for ErP Lot 26 (Network Standby). As part of this regulation, manufacturers are required to post information about the Network Standby (“sleep”) modes of products, including the available network connections, power consumption in sleep mode for each connection, and the default timeout to sleep mode. To view Lexmark's declarations of product sleep modes, click here. Lexmark 2019 Corporate Social Responsibility Report csr.lexmark.com 41 Our Approach Our Operations Our Imaging Solutions Our People & Partners Reporting Product Life Cycle As part of Lexmark’s commitment to sustainable products, Lexmark has conducted Life Cycle Assessments (LCAs) on 79 of its printer and MFP models as of January 2020 and is committed to performing LCAs on future product models. LCAs technically evaluate the environmental phases of the product design, manufacturing, distribution, use and end-of-life of our products. Lexmark is continuing to Environmental Product improve accuracy and transparency of our LCAs by working with an external consultant to include all possible phases of the printer life cycle and ensure our electronics are Declarations counted and scaled accordingly. Click here for available Environmental Product Declarations. The data from the LCAs is used to create and publish ISO 14025 Type III Environmental Product Declarations (EPDs), which summarize the complex information provided by the assessment. Each EPD conforms to the international standards ISO 14040:2006, ISO 14044:2006 and ISO 14025:2007 and follows the requirements of the Product Category Rules (PCR) for preparing an EPD for Printers and Multi-function Printing Units published by UL Environment (ULE). Lexmark is using the latest edition of PCR published April 23, 2018 for products announced in 2018 and beyond.1 The EPDs are third-party certified for accuracy and completeness. For information on secondary sources used in the Life Cycle Assessments, see Life Cycle Assessments Data.  Materials selection  Common components  Long life components  Recycled content, including  Energy efficient designs closed loop PCR Design Manufacturing  Easy to use collection  Compact design programs for reuse End of Life Distribution  Efficient packaging designs and recycling  Regional manufacturing  In-house remanufacture and recycling Use  Automatic duplex  Energy saving modes  High yield cartridges  Proactive printer maintenance 17NA6670 Lexmark 2019 Corporate Social Responsibility Report csr.lexmark.com 42 Our Approach Our Operations Our Imaging Solutions Our People & Partners Reporting LCA knowledge drives process and Lexmark printers are also designed with we compare products gen to gen we see design improvements features such as duplex and multi-page improvements in these areas. The LCA reports have identified the use printing to minimize the number of pages phase as having the greatest impact in needed in a print job. Options such as Further insight: cartridge LCAs the life cycle of the Lexmark printer—in Scan to E-mail and Print Release further Lexmark also pursues cartridge LCAs to particular, paper. This learning has shaped provide customers with ways to increase identify areas where improvements can Lexmark’s focus on offerings to help efficiency and reduce printed pages. be made within the cartridge life cycle. customers print efficiently, to optimize Conducted in accordance with ISO 14040 print environments and to return hardware Additionally, Lexmark has partnered with and 14044, the Lexmark LCA cartridge and consumables at end of life. PrintReleaf, a Denver, Colorado-based studies showed that recycling a used company that offers an automated Lexmark toner cartridge reduces the Lexmark works to reduce the sustainability program focused on carbon footprint of the cartridges studied environmental impact of paper by reforestation. PrintReleaf’s technology by nearly 50 percent over discarding it in providing customers choices when it comes integrates with our print management a landfill, consistently confirming the value to printing. One way we achieve this is software to measure paper consumption of the LCCP operations and efforts to by testing products to ensure recycled data. With this information, total paper increase cartridge collections. This value paper may be used—specifically, papers consumption is converted into an excludes paper consumed when printing. made with 30 percent, 50 percent, and equivalent number of trees, which are then 100 percent post-consumer recycled planted around the world to offset the content. Our expectation is that recycled impact. papers perform as well as virgin paper in our printers. While no official standard Looking beyond the impact of paper in exists for office equipment use of paper, the life cycle assessments, consumables, 1 Products announced prior to 2018: Lexmark uses European Standard EN energy and printer maintenance actions Product Category Rules for Printers and Multi-Function 12281 as a minimum properties standard. are highlighted as areas for improvement. Printing Units, UL Environmental Standard, Edition 1 To ensure breadth of testing, test paper Lexmark devices are intentionally (Dec 12, 2012) 2018 announce products and beyond: Product includes 100 percent recycled papers from designed to last seven or more years. Category Rules for Printers and Multi-Function Printing North America, Europe and Asia, and tests Lexmark has dedicated teams working on Units, UL Environmental Standard, Edition 2 are conducted at 8-80 percent relative product energy reductions, consumable (April 23, 2018) humidity. Testing includes duplex printing. sustainability and end of life recycling 2 Lifetime comparison of total global warming potential Office paper using renewable, recycled or and remanufacturing, as well as longevity (kg CO2equivalent) during printer life cycle phases, chlorine-free content may all be used. of components and proactive printer excluding paper maintenance to extend product life. When Generation comparison of a multifunction product 2 Lexmark 2019 Corporate Social Responsibility Report csr.lexmark.com 43 Our Approach Our Operations Our Imaging Solutions Our People & Partners Reporting Materials Approach Lexmark’s materials management This system allows our teams to address from ending up in a landfill, became At Lexmark, we look at the environmental regulatory issues, communicate with an opportunity to further offset the impact of our products throughout their suppliers about substances of concern and use of virgin materials via cartridge life cycle. We see where we can deliver respond to customer questions. remanufacturing. Materials unable to be optimal environmental performance by directly reused, were recycled. Seeing the incorporating innovative circular design value in closing the materials loop, the Designed for durability and concepts and material improvements. LCCP facility began to utilize the recycled circular economy materials from the returned cartridges Our materials management approach is back into our own products. broad, ranging from our focus on materials Our intentional design efforts yield high used and sourced from our suppliers, to quality, long-lasting products that are Our engineers innovated further to our active participation in industry trade not only reusable and recyclable, but also develop a process to reclaim the various associations. incorporate recovered materials. primary cartridge polymer feed streams at the LCCP facility. Our in-house extrusion Lexmark’s Corporate Sustainability team Recyclable design and compounding processes provide is responsible for maintaining the Product Over 90 percent of the materials used high quality PCR resins that we use to Environmental Specification. Lexmark's in hardware products by weight are manufacture new toner cartridges. In 2019, Product Environmental Specification recyclable. The majority of these materials 285 metric tons of PCR plastic material defines the minimum environmental are polymers and metals that are formed was processed. Underwriters Laboratory requirements associated with the design, into components through injection molding (UL) certified our PCR resin for use at a manufacture and marketing of Lexmark or stamping operations. High-impact rate of 100 percent for print cartridge products. The criteria stem from global polystyrene (HIPS) and acrylonitrile components in 2016, making it the first regulatory obligations, international butadiene styrene (ABS) are most often UL-certified 100 percent recycled resin to treaties and conventions to specific market used; however, other plastics such as be processed in-house. We have qualified demands. The team reviews the Product acetals, polyesters, polyamides and filled over 60 components with up to 100 Environmental Specification annually to or blended versions of these materials percent closed-loop PCR plastic. include the latest regulatory references. are also utilized. Our cartridges—primarily comprised of metals and plastics, such as Lexmark is an industry leader in the use of The Lexmark Product Environmental ABS, HIPS and polyoxymethylene (POM)— reclaimed plastic with 21 percent average Specification is available online for access are designed for zero waste to landfill. post-consumer recycled (PCR) plastic at any time. We also provide it to suppliers content, by weight, across all new Lexmark in contract terms and to material suppliers Post-consumer recycled (PCR) materials branded toner cartridges. Our goal is during the development process. Lexmark Lexmark's circular journey began over 25 to increase the post-consumer recycled audits select suppliers for compliance years ago with the incorporation of PCR plastic content in our toner cartridges to to the Lexmark Product Environmental plastic in the Optra series of printers. As 25 percent by 2022. In fact, 92 percent Specification during the delivery of parts the availability of PCR plastic in the market of Lexmark designed and manufactured and assemblies. increased, we began to offset virgin resin toner cartridges contain at least some by boldly pursuing recycled options. post-consumer recycled plastic content. To support materials management efforts, Lexmark's award-winning Lexmark Lexmark maintains a materials content Cartridge Collection Program (LCCP), Lexmark branded, in-house laser printer data collection and management system. established to keep our cartridges and multifunction product hardware Lexmark 2019 Corporate Social Responsibility Report csr.lexmark.com 44 Our Approach Our Operations Our Imaging Solutions Our People & Partners Reporting models sold in 2019 contain an average this content, Lexmark has been utilizing of 30 percent PCR plastic by weight of greater amounts of recycled plastics in plastic,1 with 100 percent of these models our printers, with some models qualified containing some PCR plastic content. to include up to 60 percent PCR by weight of plastics.1 For PCR that we cannot source through LCCP, our Lexmark engineers recommend Currently, we favor the use of postAn estimated 5,100+ metric tons using PCR materials originating from consumer recycled (PCR) materials of post-consumer recycled plastic was closed-loop recycled electronics when over the use of biobased materials for used in the manufacture of the 2019 possible. Lexmark uses several suppliers durability and recyclability. branded, in-house technology printers who declare their base resins are sourced and MFPs. 2 from 100 percent post-consumer waste The metal content in Lexmark printers is electrical and electronic equipment dominated by steel products, primarily (WEEE). Our use of PCR sourced from used for the sturdy steel frames, that used electronics provides incentive to provide extended product life. We see electronics manufacturers and recyclers the environmental benefits of reusing to continue to grow the circular economy metal content with the understanding in this industry. that recycled metal stock can be used for some—but not all—metal components. In the future, we plan to incorporate Published industry averages indicate An estimated 540 metrics tons closed-loop recycled materials from our that many commercial grades of steel of post-consumer recycled plastic was hardware recycling streams into new commonly contain between 30 percent used in the manufacture of the 2019 devices in much the same way we are and 80 percent recycled content. Lexmark branded cartridges. doing for cartridges. To help prepare for Lexmark 2019 Corporate Social Responsibility Report csr.lexmark.com 45 Our Approach Our Operations Our Imaging Solutions Our People & Partners Reporting Partner spotlight: circular economy Lexmark has developed great partnerships with suppliers who have similar priorities. For example, Lavergne—whose mission is to “make plastic circular”— provides high quality sustainable resins made from post-consumer plastics. Lavergne has externally quantified the benefits of using their recycled resins in comparison to virgin resins. The materials Lexmark sources from Lavergne deliver at least a 90 percent CO2 reduction and 80 percent water reduction compared to non-recycled resin of the same type. Reduced waste and greater efficiency and four phthalates (DEHP, BBP, DBP Please see the REACH position paper for Lexmark's Unison toner has unique lowand DiBP). Lexmark does not claim RoHS more information. friction qualities that increase toner flow exemptions for cadmium. Lexmark has and contribute to its ability to transfer developed a conformance assurance Montreal Protocol efficiently to the page. These properties system for materials restrictions that In compliance with the Montreal Protocol, reduce internal wear on long-life includes an audit process. Audit results Lexmark prohibits the use of ozonecomponents and protect the print system. indicating a nonconformance lead to depleting chemicals in the manufacture Unison toner formulation also allows for further evaluation, material or component and development of our products. a lower print temperature than previous changes if needed, and notification Lexmark toners, which increases energy to authorities if products ship with Toner Safety Data Sheets efficiency and improves time to print. noncompliant parts. Information on Cartridges deliver toner used in the conformance may be found in Product printing process. Lexmark toners are Health and Safety. classified according to the Globally Regulatory insight Harmonized System of Classification Registration, evaluation, authorization and Labelling of Chemicals (GHS). At Restriction of hazardous substances and restriction of chemicals the cartridge level, Lexmark toners are Lexmark evaluates printers, supplies and Lexmark works with our suppliers to not classified as hazardous chemicals. packaging for compliance to material ensure compliance with international In the United States, GHS regulations restriction directives and legislation. material restriction regulations such as the classify toner in bulk container form as a Lexmark complies with the material European Union Registration, Evaluation, combustible dust; however, Lexmark toners restriction requirements adopted under and Authorization of Chemicals (REACH) are not classified as hazardous outside the European Union Recast Restriction of regulation. REACH seeks to improve the United States. Lexmark provides Safety the Use of Certain Hazardous Substances public health and the environment by Data Sheets (SDSs) for these toners, where in Electrical and Electronic Equipment controlling the production and use of applicable safe handling and health Directive 2011/65/EU as amended by harmful chemical substances. Lexmark analyses can be found. EC/2015/863. Per the RoHS recast completed the first steps of REACH in directive, conformance is declared via the 2008, including preregistration, material Current SDSs are available on the Lexmark CE Mark declarations, which are posted review and required communications website. on the Lexmark website: Regulatory for the initial release of the Substances Compliance. of Very High Concern (SVHC) candidate list of chemicals. Lexmark continues to RoHS restricts the amount of certain monitor REACH developments and the hazardous substances in electrical addition of new chemicals to the SVHC and electronic equipment. These list and comply with chemical registration hazardous materials include four metals deadlines and legal obligations imposed. (lead, mercury, hexavalent chromium, More information about Lexmark REACH cadmium), two brominated flame initiatives is available to customers by retardants (polybrominated biphenyl request. and polybrominated diphenyl ether), 1 PCR calculated using IEEE.1680.2 methodology 2 Based on the post-consumer recycled materials used in the cross section of Lexmark’s primary imaging equipment sales for 2019 Lexmark branded, in-house technology. PCR calculated using IEEE.1680.2 methodology. Lexmark 2019 Corporate Social Responsibility Report csr.lexmark.com 46 Our Approach Our Operations Our Imaging Solutions Our People & Partners Reporting Return & Recycle Product return & recycle Lexmark continuously seeks new ways to reduce its footprint. While making great strides Our goal is to increase the reuse of in waste reduction at our global manufacturing facilities, Lexmark also provides an cartridges and supplies collected opportunity for our customers to reduce their waste and increase the number of Lexmark through LCCP to 60% by 2022. products that are reused and recycled. By incorporating Life Cycle Assessment results in our product design process, we develop sustainable products that combine high standards of performance, efficiency and environmental stewardship through each life cycle stage. At the end of product life, Lexmark recovers components and parts to reuse or recycle via our customer return methods: the Lexmark Cartridge Collection Program (LCCP) and the Lexmark Equipment Collection Program (LECP). Click here for additional information on Lexmark’s product return and recycle programs. Cartridge collection Our extensive cartridge collection network has made Lexmark an industry leader in the recovery, remanufacturing and recycling of used toner cartridges. In 2019, through the efforts of Lexmark customers, more than 40 percent of the total toner cartridges shipped worldwide were returned through the LCCP. In some regions, the return rate was In 2019, 62% of the cartridges and higher. For example, the United States continues to average approximately 50 percent supplies returned were reused. return rates. We estimate the industry average collection rates to be between 20 and 30 percent. Lexmark 2019 Corporate Social Responsibility Report csr.lexmark.com 47 Our Approach Our Operations Our Imaging Solutions Our People & Partners Reporting Extending material life Our products are designed and optimized for a cycle of disassembly and reuse. Lexmark develops innovative processes to divert reclaimed materials from waste streams and cycle them back into new products. Our processes provide the opportunity to reduce waste through the reuse of toner, cartridge components and materials. Last year, 62 percent of the cartridges and supplies returned to Lexmark were reused, exceeding our goal of 60 percent. We have established a new goal to increase this to 70 percent by 2025. Lexmark’s R2 certified recycling plant In 2007 Lexmark established a recycling plant in Juarez, Mexico, to provide customers a place to return their empty laser cartridges for responsible end-of-life reuse or recycling. The LCCP processes approximately 18,000 empty toner cartridges per day. Select components in empty cartridges are removed and reprocessed for reuse. In the last 15 years, Lexmark has been able to incorporate more than 64 million pounds of materials recovered through the LCCP into the production of laser cartridges. Reuse efforts at our recycling facility support the United Nations Sustainable Development Goals to increase resource efficiency and promote responsible production. The LCCP facility complies with the highest industry standards and best practices for environmental responsibility by using a tracking and accountability system to manage all materials recovered. The LCCP plant is a Responsible Recycling (R2) certified facility Watch how the LCCP process that safely recycles and manages electronics based upon an accredited, third-party closes the loop. auditor. LCCP has achieved other certifications such as ISO 14001 for environmental management, OHSAS 18001 for Occupational Health and Safety and ISO 9001 for quality management. The 99,000 square-foot facility is also a Leadership in Energy & Environmental Design (LEED) Gold certified building. Cartridge collection around the world Each year, the LCCP prevents millions of Lexmark print cartridges from ending up in landfills. This program encourages our customers to return used print cartridges to Lexmark free of charge so that we can reuse and recycle them. Our collection programs are currently available in over 60 countries, which represent approximately 90 percent of our global market. Lexmark 2019 Corporate Social Responsibility Report csr.lexmark.com 48 Our Approach Our Operations Our Imaging Solutions Our People & Partners Reporting Resource conservation through recycling and reuse Since 1996, Lexmark has reused over 70 million pounds of Lexmark is actively embracing the emerging concept of a recovered cartridge material by converting millions of used toner circular economy—a restorative industrial system focused on cartridges into Lexmark-certified reconditioned toner cartridges. maximizing the utility and value of products and materials The eligible cartridges are disassembled and cleaned, and then while also eliminating waste. Our long-standing support for the the critical components are replaced with genuine Lexmark parts. circular economy is evident in Lexmark’s founding membership Finally, each reconditioned cartridge is tested to assure the same in the European Remanufacturing Council (CER). The CER focuses high quality output and reliable performance as a cartridge with on remanufacturing policy and encourages sustainability and all new components. In 2019, reuse of 420,000 developer rolls remanufacturing initiatives. and 770,000 photoconductor units in remanufactured cartridges eliminated the need to harvest virgin raw materials resulting in Our pioneering LCCP provides a great example of substantial environmental savings. remanufacturing through resource recirculation of pre-owned supplies. In addition to reducing landfill waste, the LCCP If a returned cartridge is not a good candidate for reconditioning, conserves natural resources through reuse and recycling. it is disassembled in such a way to maximize the materials When handling used cartridges, we strive for the top levels of recovered for use in secondary products. Examples of materials the standard environmental hierarchy. Landfill disposal and given a second life include toner as an asphalt additive to incineration are the least desirable options, while recycling improve quality and performance, and post-consumer recycled and reuse produce the greatest sustainability benefit for the plastic integrated into new parts. Click here for additional environment. Therefore, Lexmark follows a zero-landfill and zeroinformation on Lexmark's innovations in cartridge recycling. incineration policy by reusing or recycling cartridges returned from customers. In 2019, we recycled or reused nearly 7,000 metric tons of plastic, metals and packaging, and were able to materially recycle or In 2019, LCCP collected 7,123 metric tons of returned cartridges reuse 100 percent of the reclaimed plastic with 960 metric tons from our customers. 96 percent or 6,863 metric tons of materials reused in new products and 1,405 metric tons recycled. Our PCR reclaimed from our customers' returned cartridges were reused closed-loop process was used to grind and pelletize 285 metric or recycled. Energy was generated from 4 percent or 261 metric tons of plastic extracted for reuse. Conserving materials for tons of toner waste collected in Brazil, Europe and Asia Pacific. reuse in our products means fewer raw materials to be mined or Since 2004, Lexmark has redirected over 130,000 metric tons of extracted, thus reducing the impact on the environment. material away from landfills using the LCCP. Click here for additional information on Lexmark’s LCCP program. For information on cartridge collection in Europe for medium and large businesses click here. Reclaimed cartridge material disposal in 2019 Lexmark 2019 Corporate Social Responsibility Report csr.lexmark.com 49 Our Approach Our Operations Our Imaging Solutions Our People & Partners Reporting Equipment collection audited regularly to ensure that they and recycle program with our primary continue to maintain the high level of electronic waste recycling partner. Lexmark offers our customers service and regulatory compliance that we Additionally, wooden pallets are reused environmentally sound choices for disposal expect of our recycling partners. and recycled (damaged pallets are of their end-of-life products. Electronic chipped and used as mulch), and certain waste, including printers that have types of Styrofoam are sent to an extruder reached the end of their usable lives, is for reuse. recycled through our Lexmark Equipment Collection Program (LECP) by specialized Click here for additional information on firms with processes to meet state and Lexmark’s LECP program. legislative requirements. The firms we Click here to view the R2 certificate. choose are committed to recycling Electronic waste recycling by location devices in an environmentally and socially United States responsible manner. Our recycling partners In the United States, we offer the LECP. The primary U.S. and European Lexmark Through this program, customers may End-of-life electronic product recycling recycling partner, Sims Recycling Solutions, return any end-of-life Lexmark branded North America is one of the world’s largest electronics products to us, and we recycle the recycler and is R2 certified. Lexmark’s equipment at no charge. For business Europe recycling partner in Canada is Quantum customers who are in the process of Lifecycle Partners, an ISO 14001, ISO 9001, installing a large fleet of new Lexmark AP OHSAS 18001 and R2 certified recycler. products, Lexmark develops customized Quantum works with Lexmark to recycle collection strategies. We work in our consumer and corporate products partnership with certified electronicsand their packaging materials. Quantum disposal agencies to collect used devices, provides comprehensive processing mark them for recycling, and arrange for facilities for e-waste designed to them to be sent to the nearest recycling effectively recover materials of electronic facility. Electronic waste legislation equipment. has been proposed in a number of states in the United States. There are 14 Sims Recycling Solutions and Global states and the District of Columbia with Electronic Recycling (GER) handle our enacted extended producer responsibility electronic waste from Mexico. GER is (EPR) legislation that includes printers: Lexmark partners with recyclers that an ISO 9001, ISO 14001 and R2/RIOS™ Connecticut, Hawaii, Illinois, Maine, offer a broad range of services and Certified Electronics Recycler. Our recyclers Michigan, Minnesota, New Jersey, New processing capabilities, are ISO 14001 processed more than 4,000 metric tons of York, North Carolina, Oregon, South certified (the environmental-managementelectronic waste on behalf of Lexmark in Carolina, Utah, Vermont and Wisconsin. system standard), and are certified R2 or the United States, Canada, Mexico, Europe While the details of the legislation vary e-Stewards. and Asia Pacific in 2019. greatly from state to state, the basic tenet is that the producers of electronic devices The R2 (Responsible Recycling) Standard The Lexmark service organization works are required to collect and responsibly is a comprehensive global criteria for with our recycling partners to reclaim recycle covered electronic devices at the e-recyclers and requires responsible parts that can be used to refurbish end of the devices’ usable lives. management of used computers and printers, which keeps the printers in electronics. This standard is managed service longer and reduces the need A Lexmark printer hardware packaging by Sustainable Electronics Recycling to recycle used hardware. Devices that return program is also in place in the International (SERI). The e-Stewards are returned to Lexmark go through a U.S. Packaging material from Lexmark Standard is a rigorous, internationally process that assesses if they can be hardware including service parts may compliant certification from Basil refurbished for reuse, and if not, they are be returned to Lexmark for recycling. Action Network (BAN) based on ISO harvested for parts that can be used in the Customers may use their new printer’s 14001 that assures full conformance to refurbishment process. packaging material to return their old a comprehensive suite of electronics Lexmark printer or they may return only recycling best practices. Both SERI and Lexmark has additional programs in the packaging material from their printer BAN are working to ensure the electronics place to recycle printer packaging or or hardware to Lexmark. For more details, recycling industry is environmentally other Lexmark hardware. Lexmark has click here. sustainable. Our recycling partners are established a shipping container reuse Lexmark 2019 Corporate Social Responsibility Report csr.lexmark.com 50 Our Approach Our Operations Our Imaging Solutions Our People & Partners Reporting Canada Lexmark is a member of Electronic Product Stewardship Canada (EPSC), an organization dedicated to promoting and implementing sustainable solutions for end-of-life electronics. We participate in a number of government-sponsored and industry-supported recycling programs in Canada, which vary by province. All provinces require electronic manufacturers to pay a fee that is used to recycle electronic equipment in those respective provinces. For customers that do not have a provincial recycling program, Lexmark offers product recycling through our Canadian Recycling Partner, Quantum. Click here for more information on printer recycling in Canada. Europe In many parts of Europe, our equipment take-back strategy is implemented a government approved service to offer channel electronic waste from end-ofthrough country-specific programs that customers an environmentally responsible life products to authorized recyclers. are operated in accordance with the choice for disposal of their end-of-life Arrangements with authorized recyclers European Union (EU) Waste Electrical and printers. ensure the responsible disposal of Electronic Equipment (WEEE) Directive electronic equipment to protect the (2012/19/EU). Consumers in the EU can In this end-of-life program, all information environment and surrounding communities. take their equipment to locally authorized technology manufacturers and importers collection centers or, in some cases, to are responsible for their shares of actual Click here for more information on local retailers. For EU business customers, waste collected. Customers return their equipment recycling in Australia. Lexmark has established a fully compliant end-of-life electronic equipment to logistics system for transporting used designated collection points from which Latin America products to the nearest storage and the waste is taken to central consolidation The infrastructure for recycling electronic sorting facility, where the equipment is and collection points for recycling by waste in the regions of Central and properly processed for recycling. accredited recycling operators. South America is emerging as national measures are taken to ensure proper Click here to see more detailed LECP and Proper disposal and recycling on WEEE disposal of end-of-life electronic WEEE compliance information. generated in Hong Kong is guided by equipment. Many countries and local the Producer Responsibility Scheme on governments have enacted forms Asia Pacific Waste Electrical and Electronic Equipment of extended producer responsibility The countries that make up Lexmark’s Asia (WPRS). Lexmark works with a collector legislation. Lexmark is monitoring Latin Pacific region have enacted regulations to deliver electronic waste to a licensed America’s electronic waste legislation and mandating electronic waste recycling that facility for proper recycling. The recycling is working with our recycling partners to vary from country to country to maximize facility turns regulated WEEE into set up regional recycling centers to meet the proper disposal and recycling of valuable raw materials through a series of these new requirements. electronic waste and to minimize the dismantling and recycling processes. impact to the environment. A primary focus for Lexmark’s Asia Pacific environmental The introduction of electronic waste laws work is to support the Australian national in India has resulted in Lexmark working end-of-life electronic equipment and closely with the Indian Government to recycling program. Lexmark has joined Lexmark 2019 Corporate Social Responsibility Report csr.lexmark.com 51 Our Approach Our Operations Our Imaging Solutions Our People & Partners Reporting Product Emissions Noise emissions (acoustics) for Blue Angel certification in-house Acoustics is the science of sound and its and test innovative solutions to help perception by people. Designing products reduce unwanted noise and improve the for the environment includes consideration accessibility of our devices. Lab personnel for sounds in the workplace. Lexmark’s are proficient in test methods for noise environmental design is guided by the emissions under ISO 7779 Sound levels, Blue Angel standard, and devices meet the ISO 532B Zwicker loudness, ISO 9296 requirements of DE-UZ 205. declaration and the Blue Angel ecolabel. Learn more here about Blue Angel and Blue Angel-certified Lexmark Lexmark printers offer an ideal Chemical emissions products. combination of efficient performance and Laser printers emit low levels of volatile quiet operation to enhance comfort in the organic compounds (VOCs) due to the Visit ECMA 370/The Eco workplace and to increase productivity. heating of internal components, and they Declaration for product Quiet Mode, featured on many Lexmark produce small amounts of dust (mostly declarations which include products, provides customers the ability paper remnants) as paper moves through chemical emissions and to adjust the sound level of their printer to the printer. Emissions in the workplace acoustics summaries. meet personal preferences. are subject to occupational exposure restrictions established by individual Lexmark product engineers assess countries for specific chemicals. our equipment acoustics and reduce unwanted noise while selectively Lexmark printers are tested throughout incorporating helpful sounds. Our devices the development cycle according to the strive to meet the auditory requirements protocols of the internationally recognized of the 2017 Revised Section 508 of the US Blue Angel ecolabel. Emission results Rehabilitation Act of 1973, as amended for total volatile organic compounds, (29 U.S.C. 794d). To further enhance the benzene, styrene, ozone, dust and ultrafine accessibility of our offerings, Lexmark particles are compared to the stringent created the Voice Guidance solution to Blue Angel limits set forth in the standard, provide auditory output. Voice Guidance and summary reports of Lexmark product lets individuals with varying levels of emissions are available to customers upon ability use a keyboard to control select request. products and receive auditory feedback. The voice output is amplified to at least 65 Lexmark owns and operates a Blue dB and is reset automatically after every Angel certified and ISO 17025 accredited use to the default volume level. Users can chemical emission test laboratory. This hear voice prompts through the device's allows us to perform accredited in-house built-in speakers or through their own tests for Blue Angel certification and headset. EPEAT. Moreover, frequent trials are conducted to gain a better understanding Our ISO 17025 accredited test laboratory of emissions sources and solutions for allows Lexmark to perform official tests mitigation. Lexmark 2019 Corporate Social Responsibility Report csr.lexmark.com 52 Our Approach Our Operations Our Imaging Solutions Our People & Partners Reporting Product Energy Use The demand for products that consume less energy, and ultimately result in lower Over 90% of Lexmark printer and emissions, is ever increasing. Our customers wish to lower their impact on the multifunction product models held environment while also reducing operating energy costs. Lexmark invests in developing ENERGY STAR certification in 2019. energy efficient products to not only fulfill our customer’s expectations, but also extend the impact of our environmental efforts far beyond what we can do within our walls. External standards and specifications help shape Lexmark designs. Lexmark products transitioned to ENERGY STAR V3.0 in 2019. Due to our continued focus on developing energy efficient products, the majority of Lexmark products were able to maintain ENERGY STAR certification through the transition to the more rigorous V3.0. Lexmark targets low power consumption in sleep mode. Products announced after 2012 have a power consumption of 4 watts or less, many having less than 2 watts in response to the 2019 EU requirements (European Union EC 801/2013). To further save energy, products either enable Hibernate mode or auto-off when not in use for an extended period. For more information on European Union EC 801/2013, see Product Certifications. Energy efficiency improvements have a considerable effect on the product use phase. This is confirmed in the life cycle assessments (LCAs) that Lexmark does on hardware product families. See the Generation comparison of a multifunction product graphic in Product Life Cycle. Power savings evolution: sleep power A 94 percent reduction in sleep power since 2005! A 98 percent reduction in sleep power since 2005! Lexmark 2019 Corporate Social Responsibility Report csr.lexmark.com 53 Our Approach Our Operations Our Imaging Solutions Our People & Partners Reporting Packaging Packaging designed with the environment in mind Lexmark catalogs the amount of packaging material used with We design our packaging with the environment in mind. every product to ensure that designs adhere to a minimalist For every product, the Lexmark packaging team carefully approach and remain highly recyclable. considers the following environmental concerns: Recycled paper becomes product packaging • The amount of packaging used Protecting our products with re-designed packaging allows us to • The effects of packaging on shipping reuse material and minimize waste. Lexmark supplies-packaging • The types of materials used engineers designed a process to create molded pulp cushions • The recyclability of packaging materials composed of used paper. Cost-effective and practical, these packaging cushions not only provide excellent protection for During the design phase, Lexmark engineers determine the our cartridges during shipping but can also be recycled. They shipping requirements of each product. They consider the overall are made from 100 percent post-consumer waste. In 2019, our size of the product, its shape, and the included accessories. The pulp cushions gave 343 metric tons of used paper a second life overall ruggedness of the printer is another significant factor: protecting our cartridges. the more robust the printer is, the less packaging it requires. Less packaging lowers costs, reduces materials disposed in For our efforts on this project, Lexmark was recognized as local landfills and ensures that goods are transported in the a Manufacturing Leadership 100 Award winner (ML 100) in most efficient manner. These efficiencies result in energy and the Sustainability Category. Presented by the Manufacturing natural resource savings, and fewer greenhouse emissions. Leadership Council, the ML100 Awards honor businesses that Package design revisions of the Lexmark MS/MX310, 410, 510 shape the future of global manufacturing. and 610 series toner cartridges resulted in a savings of over 1,187 metric tons of packaging material in 2019. The new design uses Supplies packaging with reduced carbon footprint 40 percent less material, improves container efficiency during Lexmark packaging engineers design our supplies cartons shipping and yielded a cost savings of over $4.6 million. to reduce their environmental impact while maintaining their structural integrity. The durability of our supplies packaging is At Lexmark, we apply this eco-logic not only to printers but put to the test by being shipped twice–once to ensure that the also to supplies and service parts. Our packaging materials are product is safely delivered to the customer; the second to ensure derived from both renewable and nonrenewable sources. Those the product is securely packaged in its return trip to Lexmark. derived from renewable sources include corrugated cardboard boxes, molded pulp cushions and wooden pallets. Those Lexmark makes it easy for customers to participate in sustainable derived from nonrenewable sources include cushions made from practices by using our free Lexmark Cartridge Collection Program expanded polystyrene (EPS) or expanded polyethylene (EPE); to return cartridges and packaging. Lexmark also offers recycling polyethylene bags; fasteners such as staples, twist ties and tape; of printer packaging. For more information about the Lexmark plastic strapping and plastic stretch wrap. Equipment Collection Program, click here. Minimum recycled content of packaging materials: Watch how Lexmark Corrugated fibreboard | 35 percent recycles waste paper into pulp that’s molded into product Molded pulp | 100 percent packaging. Lexmark 2019 Corporate Social Responsibility Report csr.lexmark.com 54 Our Approach Our Operations Our Imaging Solutions Our People & Partners Reporting Accessibility Solutions At Lexmark, we want to help our users be more productive. We are therefore committed to developing technologies that work to eliminate physical barriers to workplace success, making common tasks like printing or scanning a document accessible to everyone. We incorporate features that make our products more intuitive, less physically demanding, and easier to use for people of all abilities. Designing for accessibility not only helps individuals with physical limitations be fully productive and successful in their careers, but it also helps address the broader issue of unemployment in the disabled community. One example of our commitment to accessible design is the variety of features offered by the Lexmark CX825dte. It’s one of several Lexmark products that offer individuals with vision, mobility or dexterity impairments a control panel that tilts from horizontal to vertical, paper trays that can be closed with less than five pounds of force, built-in voice guidance navigation with a headphone jack for private listening and raised keypad icons. With the Lexmark CX825dte, all workers can conveniently copy, fax, email and scan. Accessibility innovation at Lexmark is driven by the Lexmark Accessibility Council. The council includes product designers, software engineers, usability experts, solutions designers and publication writers. To determine the best path for future generations of Lexmark products, the council monitors legislation and regulations, conducts research with customers and users, and consults with accessibility experts. Equipped with data from various perspectives, the council works with the Lexmark development community to drive product design enhancements in current and future products, making them more accessible for all Lexmark solutions users. By applying the principles of universal design to our solutions, the Accessibility Council helps deliver accessible imaging devices and assistive software solutions so that all Lexmark customers can make the most of their unique skills and abilities in the workplace. Lexmark incorporates features that make our products easier to use for people of all abilities. Discover the accessibility features included in many Lexmark products. Lexmark 2019 Corporate Social Responsibility Report csr.lexmark.com 55 Our Approach Our Operations Our Imaging Solutions Our People & Partners Reporting Accessibility features and solutions Tactilely discernible numpad On-device guidance Adjustable display Lexmark Accessibility Solution Raised and outlined buttons Large, high-contrast icons, Users can tilt the display to Users can create job tickets with tactile imprints help orient focus cursor and voice optimize the viewing angle. with their computer or visually impaired users. prompts guide users to smartphone while using perform common tasks using assistive technology, such as swipe navigation. the JAWS® screen reader. When they enter a shortcut on the printer’s accessible numpad, their job is released. Accessible height and reach Magnification Paper tray adjustments Headphone jack and Applying universal design prinUsers with limited vision can Users can adjust paper size in volume controls ciples helps accommodate the magnify the user interface the automatic document feedWorkers can listen privately to height, reach and force needs display by 200%. er and paper trays with voice prompts using the headof all users. a fingertip. phone jack. Lexmark Embedded Solutions Expanded interaction options Framework (eSF) Application Users can activate the touch Platform screen with a variety of A variety of solutions are choices, including a stylus supported by voice guidance, or finger. including Scan to Network, Print Release and Forms and Favorites. Lexmark 2019 Corporate Social Responsibility Report csr.lexmark.com 56 Our Approach Our Operations Our Imaging Solutions Our People & Partners Reporting Web content accessibility best practices in the development of improvements in Lexmark’s products. Lexmark web page designs are guided by office equipment, software solutions and WCAG 2.1. Lexmark uses elements of these communications. Original Section 508 Educating the greater Lexmark community guidelines to create web pages that are Standards (2000) and Revised Section Lexmark hosts share sessions on more accessible to visitors with differing 508 Standards (2017) of the United States accessibility topics to educate the greater abilities. Rehabilitation Act, European Standard Lexmark community about the wants and EN301549, and Web Content Accessibility needs of our customers with disabilities. Compatibility with assistive technology Guidelines (W3C WCAG 2.1 AA) are The council works to increase awareness Lexmark includes design features that examples of the many national and and collaboration among the various improve website accessibility for visitors international standards and regulations development test functions, Quality who use screen-reader and screenthat we apply to our designs. Assurance organization, the Usability magnifier software, such as alternative team and Lexmark Technical Support text for images and graphs, list-oriented Consultation with experts representatives. Lexmark is committed to navigation and header tags. The Lexmark Accessibility Council has ensuring that all users can easily learn to established external relationships with use our products in order to achieve their Lexmark strives to create a positive accessible design experts and accessibility goals with a high level of satisfaction. experience for all users, regardless of the analysts, such as the American Printing device used to access our site. For this House for the Blind (APH) and Bluegrass Educating the sales force reason, our site has been designed to Council of the Blind (BCB). We draw on The Lexmark Accessibility Council educates ensure that all devices provide a similar their insights to improve the design of the Lexmark sales force about accessibility user experience. We aim to make visiting future products and solutions. issues so that they can then work with our our site a productive experience for all customers’ purchasing and IT personnel to individuals. Lexmark regularly participates in find the best solutions for their workforces. accessibility conferences, seminars and This education includes participating in To ensure that our products are as screenshare sessions. We send representatives conference calls and hosting webinars for reader friendly as other Internet-enabled to the annual International Technology sales teams. devices, designs for our new web-based and Persons with Disabilities Conference applications are informed by WAI-ARIA sponsored by California State University, Educational material guidelines and attributes. In addition, Northridge (CSUN), and participate in The Lexmark Accessibility Council we are working to make sure that our monthly webinars sponsored by the U.S. regularly refreshes and creates training applications are available to visitors who Access Board. materials and presentations targeted for may have disabled JavaScript. various groups including internal sales, development and technical support teams, Accessibility education and develops educational material for Customer feedback To increase awareness of accessibility external customers. This information is User input challenges and inspire innovation, we maintained and made available on the The Lexmark Accessibility Council seeks host educational sessions on the topic of company’s internal network site. input from customers with disabilities accessibility. We also use online, internal to better understand their unique collaboration tools to encourage informal To aid our customers, we publish our requirements. We visit our customers to discussion and problem solving. product User’s Guides in accessible HTML discuss how our printing and software format. We also publish an Accessibility solutions can increase productivity in the Educating solution designers Guide providing important product workplace. We also meet with them to see The Accessibility Council hosts training accessibility information in a consolidated, how they currently use Lexmark solutions meetings and webinars to inform Lexmark accessible document. In addition, and to hear their ideas and suggestions solution designers about the needs of customers with disabilities can access for future solutions applications. For the disabled community. These meetings Technical Support via phone, chat and example, Lexmark incorporated customer may include information on design email. For questions regarding Lexmark feedback into our latest smart card requirements, methods, and national or accessibility solutions, please contact authentication solution and into our international legal design mandates, and accessibility@lexmark.com. control panels to improve tactility. User involve Lexmark’s global development sites input helps us optimize our accessibility in Lexington, Kentucky; Cebu, Philippines; solutions for continued effectiveness in the and Kolkata, India. The council also relays workplace. the customer information that it collects directly to solution designers to enhance Standards and regulations accessibility, and hosts share sessions with We are guided by current and developing development teams to demonstrate how standards and regulations that prescribe their efforts directly impact accessibility Lexmark 2019 Corporate Social Responsibility Report csr.lexmark.com 57 Our Approach Our Operations Our Imaging Solutions Our People & Partners Reporting Software & Solutions Lexmark develops software and solutions that improve business processes and benefit the environment by reducing paper consumption and the number of unique electronic devices. The following table lists some of these offerings as well as the key environmental benefit they provide. To see Lexmark's comprehensive software and solutions, please click here. SOFTWARE & SOLUTIONS Lexmark Offer Environmental Benefit Description Distributed Intelligent Capture transforms the time-consuming and error-prone task of manually Distributed Intelligent Capture Reduce paper consumption processing all types of documents into a fast, effective, automated workflow, enabling digital document usage throughout a process. Ensure 24/7 access to critical documents and reports even if your IT system fails or the network goes down. As documents are updated Downtime Assistant Device consolidation throughout the day, they are streamed to your printer or MFP and stored on the secure hard disk. *Hard disk required. Set copy defaults such as duplex printing, paper Eco Settings Reduce paper consumption saver and darkness setting to reduce paper and toner usage and optimize energy efficiency. Lexmark provides a high-speed on-ramp to scan Capture apps Reduce paper consumption paper into document workflow and the leading document management systems. Create bookmarks to image-based forms that Forms & Favorites Reduce paper consumption reside on a server anywhere on the Internet and print the images on demand at any time. Our GHS Label Printing solution enables manufacturers to produce color-printed labels for Reduce paper (label stock) transporting and using hazardous materials. With GHS Label Printing consumption / Ensures color laser printers from Lexmark, time is saved compliance with GHS regulations and waste is reduced by on demand printing, only needed labels. Lexmark 2019 Corporate Social Responsibility Report csr.lexmark.com 58 Our Approach Our Operations Our Imaging Solutions Our People & Partners Reporting SOFTWARE & SOLUTIONS Lexmark Offer Environmental Benefit Description Lexmark In-Store Capture's technology designed for retailers and Lexmark’s smart MFP platform In-Store Capture Energy savings streamlines paper-based processes, driving greater efficiency and improving security while reducing energy usage. Lexmark Patient Communication for Healthcare eliminates the need for preprinted stock, Patient Communication Reduce paper consumption clinicians can boost the accuracy of information and patients can easily read, understand and follow health-impacting documents. Lexmark Print and Digital Signage streamlines the signing process. Stores print everything they need and nothing they don’t, in color and in optimized Print and Digital Signage Reduce paper consumption execution order, this cuts costs by eliminating waste and reduces the time it takes to hang and change signs. As many as 40% of pages are printed unnecessarily due to no visibility and control of printing and copying behavior. Lexmark Print Print Management Reduce paper consumption Management eliminates excess printing, allows for better device consolidation and provides user level reporting and controls. RFID Laser Printing for Manufacturing enables consolidated printing and programming to a RFID Laser Printing Device consolidation single Lexmark multifunction device, reducing confusion and increasing the impact of RFID technology. Lexmark Scan Center consolidates all scanrelated functions into one sophisticated yet easyto-use application. This powerful tool enables Scan Center Reduce paper consumption users to review, enhance and index images, then route to multiple destinations using an intuitive, touch screen interface. Banks and financial institutions can achieve timesavings of up to 80% and maintain high data Smart Document Capture for Banking Reduce paper consumption quality by automating the onboarding process while minimizing manual paper handling and distribution. Government agencies can achieve time-savings of up to 80% and maintain high data quality by automating core government processes such as Smart Document Capture for Government Reduce paper consumption application case management and recertification while minimizing manual paper handling and distribution. Lexmark 2019 Corporate Social Responsibility Report csr.lexmark.com 59 Our Approach Our Operations Our Imaging Solutions Our People & Partners Reporting SOFTWARE & SOLUTIONS Lexmark Offer Environmental Benefit Description Insurance institutions can achieve time-savings of up to 80% and maintain high data quality by automating core insurance processes such as Smart Document Capture for Insurance Reduce paper consumption new application policyholder maintenance and claims while minimizing manual paper handling and distribution. Capture an image of a printed document and route the image to a predefined personal or Scan to Network Folder Reduce paper consumption public shared network folder. Lexmark’s Supply Chain Document Optimization solutions for manufacturing helps gain visibility, Supply Chain Document Optimization Device consolidation consolidate devices, raise productivity, lower costs and improve compliance. Lexmark's Tamper Resistant Prescription Printing enables printing prescriptions on demand Tamper Resistant Prescription Printing Reduce paper consumption using plain paper. This eliminates expensive and wasteful preprinted forms which must be scrapped with regulation changes. Lexmark’s Testing Assistant solution saves time, reduces costs and supports student achievement. Available from virtually any web browser, Testing Assistant leverages the power Testing Assistant Reduce paper consumption of Lexmark multifunction printers (MFPs) to create test answer sheets, scan and grade completed tests, and export results to virtually any learning management system. The Lexmark Training and Certification solution for manufacturing provides easy access to training materials, tests and pre-populated employee rosters printed directly from a Lexmark Training and Certification Reduce paper consumption multi-function product (MFP). Completed tests are scanned and automatically graded with results linked to the employee record for instant and accurate recording of all employee-training activities. Lexmark 2019 Corporate Social Responsibility Report csr.lexmark.com 60 Our People & Partners Lexmark strives to be the kind of company that communities welcome; the kind of company that people want to work for because we are a company that cares. Volunteerism, charitable giving, education and commitment to diversity are part of the Lexmark culture. This genuine sense of connection makes us stronger as a business and empowers employees, while supporting the areas in which we live. We are pleased to highlight our efforts to have a positive social impact through our relationships with our employees, our customers and the communities in which we live and work. Lexmark 2019 Corporate Social Responsibility Report csr.lexmark.com 61 Our Approach Our Operations Our Imaging Solutions Our People & Partners Reporting Global Citizenship Lexmark strives to be a good corporate citizen in the communities where our employees live and work. We contribute money, equipment, facilities, loaned talent, technical assistance and volunteer support to organizations on a local, national and global scale. Volunteerism is at the core of Lexmark. Our people are passionate about helping others and the environment. Lexmark empowers employees to give their time, talent and resources through programs such as Volunteer Time Off and flexible work policies. Lexmark presents an annual Volunteer of the Year award to an employee who demonstrates excellence in volunteerism. The recipient is selected by the Lexmark Global “Living the Vision” Committee from a pool of nominees across all Lexmark locations. This award is designed to recognize the individual volunteer efforts of our employees and help support the causes that are most important to them. Volunteerism Lexmark supports many organizations globally. From company-wide initiatives to individual and team contributions, Lexmark makes a significant impact in our communities. Volunteerism in Europe, Middle East Volunteerism in Latin America and Africa Volunteerism in North America Volunteerism in Asia Pacific Lexmark 2019 Corporate Social Responsibility Report csr.lexmark.com 62 Our Approach Our Operations Our Imaging Solutions Our People & Partners Reporting United Way Lexmark locations around the globe support United Way by donating funds, employee skills, volunteer and personal time, use of company facilities, communications and promotion. Employees are excited about the opportunity to help and often find enthusiastic ways to encourage others to donate to the cause—activities ranging from volunteer projects to benefit the local United Way organizations to festivals and sports tournaments raising funds for these organizations. Campaign highlights Boulder, CO Lexmark employees participated in the Foothills United Way’s 25th Annual Day of Caring at the Cal-Wood Environmental Education Center, clearing fallen trees and preserving trails. Cal-Wood has provided environmental education to school groups, youth and their families since 1982. Lexington, KY Lexmark employees in Lexington, KY, participated in Care Day projects for local United Way of the Bluegrass organizations, donating many hours of volunteer service. Through these projects, volunteers provided services such as gleaning, grounds work/ maintenance, building refresh and organizational projects. Juarez, Mexico Employees in Juarez, Mexico, organized multiple events to help local schools, nursing homes and shelters, bringing joy and meeting the needs of the local community groups supported. Ontario, Canada Lexmark Canada held a silent auction to support the agencies and programs of United Way Greater Toronto and participated in the United Way Day of Caring by volunteering with the Meals on Wheels program. Building Homes for the Community Lexmark is a longtime sponsor of Lexington Habitat for Humanity providing 24 homes to families in need. For over 20 years, Lexmark employees and retirees have joined the families in constructing the homes that will help transform their lives. Lexmark employee and volunteer co-coordinator, Bud Beegle, expressed I am glad to be a part of the Habitat community in building strength, stability and self-reliance in partnership with families in need of decent and affordable housing. Since 2006, Lexmark Cebu has partnered with Gawad Kalinga, a Philippine organization with a mission to end poverty. As part of this partnership, Lexmark and our employees have donated time and money to construct homes and meet other community needs in the Lexmark Gawad Kalinga-Miglanilla village. To date, Lexmark volunteers have completed construction of 100 homes, a playground and a basketball court. In 2019, employees painted the basketball court and beautified the area. Environment From tree and mangrove plantings to trash collection and cleanup efforts, Lexmark employees invest time to help the environment in the communities where we live and beyond, as well as raise awareness for environmental stewardship. Learn more about Lexmark's reforestation efforts. Lexmark 2019 Corporate Social Responsibility Report csr.lexmark.com 63 Our Approach Our Operations Our Imaging Solutions Our People & Partners Reporting STEM education support Lexmark’s corporate giving continues to focus on science, technology, engineering and mathematics (STEM) education. STEM initiatives such as science fairs, site lab tours, Women in Engineering, mentorship, tutoring programs and partnerships with local schools and universities are some of the many ways Lexmark supports STEM education. Lexmark facilities and employee talent are often used for these educational events, providing increased opportunities for the local community to participate. Lexmark and the University of Kentucky partnered together to establish the UK/Lexmark Center for Innovation in Math and Science Education, a place to provide professional development for Kentucky science and math teachers, a lab for fieldwork-based ecology education and a shared meeting room for community outreach. Lexmark has been a longtime supporter of UK’s annual Engineers Day, or E-Day, serving as title sponsor since 2017. E-Day, a celebration of everything engineering, is geared toward school-aged children from elementary through high school. With our focus on educational The Lexington Youth Science Summit, a popular Kentucky Science Center event, is hosted excellence—particularly in the areas by Lexmark. Lexmark and other area businesses provide hands-on demonstrations and of science, technology, engineering mentoring for middle and high school students giving them an opportunity to learn and and math—E-Day is a great way apply different areas of science. for us to show our support, share our passion for engineering, Contributions and hopefully inspire the next Lexmark must adhere to strict guidelines when providing financial support to help meet generation of engineers. community needs. Designated funds make a difference to the organizations receiving these funds and to the individuals receiving services. —Allen Waugerman Lexmark President and Learn more about Lexmark’s Corporate Giving Program. Chief Executive Officer See also, Lexmark Fast Facts. In-kind gifts Lexmark makes numerous in-kind contributions to nonprofit organizations. In addition to printers and gifts associated with printing, employees collect items for numerous other needs. These collections are not tracked for value purposes but are meaningful contributions for the community. School supplies, food, clothing, health supplies, disaster relief supplies, and trees are some of the many items Lexmark has donated. Contribution highlight: La Fondation Mira Lexmark Canada has partnered with La Fondation Mira for over 10 years to fulfill its mission: “Whatever is available to all should also be accessible to the handicapped.” Mira is a nonprofit organization that offers free guide dogs and service dogs to people living with visual impairments, physical disabilities and to youth with Autism Spectrum Disorder (ASD). All of Mira's services are made available free of charge. Lexmark’s partnership with La Fondation Mira has resulted in the training and provision of approximately 100 guide dogs to enable increased accessibility for individuals with visual or mobility impairments. Lexmark 2019 Corporate Social Responsibility Report csr.lexmark.com 64 Our Approach Our Operations Our Imaging Solutions Our People & Partners Reporting Commitment to Employees Lexmark is committed to promoting a is available for employees to track health, diverse and inclusive business culture wellness and sustainability tasks. Many where employees can reach their full of these tasks are set up in the form of potential. We strive to show continuous fun competitions and personal goals, and progress in the hiring and promotion have monetary rewards. of people with diverse thoughts, experiences and backgrounds, as well as Employee feedback underrepresented groups such as women Twice per year, Lexmark employees and minorities. are asked to respond to a worldwide employee survey which is focused on Lexmark monitors its workforce breakdown engagement in areas such as teamwork, based on gender and race or ethnicity career development, innovation, and in accordance with International Labour manager effectiveness. Facilities in each Organization (ILO) convention No. 111 geography support initiatives that are and No. 100. These include analyses of meaningful to their local employees. For underrepresented groups in management example, in Juarez, Mexico, the leadership positions and remuneration. team proactively involved employees in their strategy to be the employer of Employee engagement choice in the city. Based on the feedback Employee engagement is an important they received, a cross-functional team part of Lexmark's community and representing all areas of the site made culture. Two-way conversations are improvements to employee development encouraged, and Lexmark's commitment and work-life balance. to communication is reflected in the Open Door Program, which enables employees Employee development to discuss issues and concerns with Lexmark encourages professional and multiple levels of management. Employees personal growth for all employees. We have many opportunities to be engaged in support continued education to help our corporate social responsibility. Recycling employees become more effective in their and conserving environmental resources current positions and develop skill sets for is common practice for employees at future positions. all of our Lexmark locations. Volunteer activities are frequently available for Development plans are utilized to identify participation and are shared through opportunities and highlight career goals, internal social media. In addition, interests and strengths. Employees are Diversity Network groups and social encouraged to update their career goals groups sponsor activities that welcome and development plans in preparation all employees to join in. Lexmark also has for conversations with their managers a team of environmental advocates that on development and performance. All are focused on promoting sustainability worldwide employees are directed to work activities and education. In the U.S., a tool with their managers to create performance Lexmark 2019 Corporate Social Responsibility Report csr.lexmark.com 65 Our Approach Our Operations Our Imaging Solutions Our People & Partners Reporting objectives that support goals on personal, development programs are also offered. laws and regulations. Benefit packages department, business area, and company All employees are required to complete the are available to full-time and part-time levels. Code of Conduct and IT Security programs employees based on the location. each year. Numerous courses are available Employees are also encouraged to globally to help employees learn more Healthcare is also a priority at Lexmark. recruit a mentor who is willing to provide about our business, better understand one Each geography strives to find ways to guidance and support either informally or another, and work more cohesively in an help employees succeed at being the through Lexmark's formal program. international environment. healthiest that they can be. The locations in Cebu, Philippines; Juarez, Mexico; Continuing education opportunities Benefits and compensation Lexington, Kentucky and Shenzhen, China, include a tuition reimbursement program Lexmark and our subsidiaries around the have onsite medical facilities where for external courses and degrees, the world offer benefit plans that are very employees can get healthcare exams requirements and benefits for which competitive in each of the countries in conveniently during the workday. Many vary by Lexmark location. Funding for which we operate. Plans are benchmarked facilities offer their employees recreational external training programs is provided to frequently to ensure that compensation areas or sports leagues where they can develop employees' skills, knowledge and and salary levels remain competitive, participate in friendly challenges and abilities. Retirement planning assistance enabling us to attract and retain quality competitions that promote health and is available through online and on-site employees in each region. fitness. Typical benefits include health workshops offered by our 401(k) partner. insurance, life and accidental insurance, Lexmark is continually evaluating how and dental and vision insurance. Employee Lexmark offers a Technical Rotation we can better support the needs of profit sharing is available in geographies Program in order to recruit and hire top, our employees and their families. Our where it is mandated by law. diverse, entry-level talent and expose employees' feedback gives us insight into them to various parts of the business how we can help add balance to their Across the globe, Lexmark supports while learning technical, business and busy lives and make Lexmark an even employee family life and offers paid leadership skills. better place to work. Part-time employees parental time off options to both women in the United States are eligible for the and men in addition to flextime, which In-house learning opportunities include same benefits (some on a prorated basis) continues to aid new parents. Flexible extensive training in technical and as full-time regular employees. Lexmark's schedules, accommodating Mothers business skills, delivered primarily through competitive benefits program provides Rooms, the options to work remotely resources in various business areas. employees with the opportunity to ensure (where applicable) and on-site or nearby Learning occurs through instructor-led the wellness of their families, and create a childcare let parents have positive work courses as well as an extensive library positive working environment. experiences. of virtual classes, which are available at any time through Lexmark's worldwide Every geography provides for variable online learning platform. Leadership health coverage, time off, retirement training, onboarding and company-wide savings, and more in compliance with local Lexmark 2019 Corporate Social Responsibility Report csr.lexmark.com 66 Our Approach Our Operations Our Imaging Solutions Our People & Partners Reporting U.S. benefits vacation policy allows employees to take In the U.S., benefit offerings include time off when needed. This empowers employee spouses, domestic partners and employees to make decisions that are dependents. Lexmark offers transgender best for themselves, their families and benefits as well as support and guidelines the company. Employees have open for transitioning employees. Flexible communication with their management spending accounts for both health care and the time is not tracked. This applies and childcare are available. Assistance to all U.S. employees other than those for adoption is provided. An interactive in California, who continue under the wellness tool is also available for current California Vacation Program due to U.S. employees and their spouses or considerations under California state law. domestic partners providing a way to join challenges and track fitness activities to Equal pay promote physical, mental and financial Lexmark's presence has positive impacts wellness. This program includes incentive on the economics that surround our dollars when employees meet their health, global locations. We provide competitive wellness and sustainability goals. In employee compensation and hire addition, Geriatric Care Management the majority of our employees from Services are offered in the U. S. benefits. surrounding communities. The health and wellness center at Salaries vary at Lexmark, depending upon Lexmark's headquarter's location in the location of employment, education Lexington, Kentucky offers health level, job function and a number of coaching, allergy injection programs, other factors. Lexmark is committed to physical therapy, telehealth, wellness equal pay for work of equal value. This and sick visits. The Lexington site has commitment includes equal remuneration sports courts for their employees and for male and female workers. In support of offers group exercise classes. In addition, this commitment, we contract third-party the site is recognized by the League of agencies to conduct remuneration studies, American Bicyclists as a Gold-level Bicycle and we conduct other studies internally. Friendly Business (BFB). A subsidized For example, in the U.S. a third party childcare center is also located on-site in performs an analysis to ensure pay equity a Leadership in Energy & Environmental based on demographics. Design (LEED) Gold certified facility. The environmentally beneficial features that A significant portion of Lexmark employees earned this certification are used as an including those in the U.S., Mexico and the educational experience for the children. Philippines-work in locations that have The children learn about water and energy minimum wage laws. Lexmark is committed conservation, local harvest and material to rewarding our employees for their hard reuse, and recycling. work. Compensation plans are frequently benchmarked to ensure that we remain Lexmark is focused on providing ways competitive. Moreover, providing abovefor employees to maintain a healthy average employee compensation has a work-life balance. Flexible work hours for favorable economic impact on the markets most jobs allow employees to enjoy their in which we do business. lives and take care of personal business while optimizing work performance and productivity. Employees have paid time off for volunteering, holidays and vacation. In the U.S., an unlimited Lexmark 2019 Corporate Social Responsibility Report csr.lexmark.com 67 Our Approach Our Operations Our Imaging Solutions Our People & Partners Reporting Human Rights Lexmark’s commitment to human rights We have never been cited for any human is outlined in our Global Human Rights rights violations, including the rights of Policy and in the Lexmark Code of indigenous employees or communities Business Conduct. These policies address near existing operations that are likely nondiscrimination, workplace safety, child to be affected by planned or proposed labor, forced labor and human trafficking, future operations. Lexmark maintains a working hours and minimum ages, and good reputation worldwide by ensuring freedom of association and collective that our practices positively impact the bargaining. Lexmark is committed to communities where we live and work. Fully providing a work environment free from 100 percent of our security personnel, harassment or discrimination based on including contractors and third-party race, color, sexual orientation, gender organizations providing security services, identity, national origin, age, disability, are trained in the Lexmark’s policies and veteran status, or for any other unlawful procedures for human rights issues and violation. This policy is driven by our their application to security. Employees respect for the dignity of the individual are trained on policies and procedures and our commitment to treating all that prepare them to address human persons equitably. We investigate all rights in the course of their daily work. An credible complaints of discrimination estimated 3,000 hours were devoted to brought to the attention of management in training global employees on human rights an expedient and non-retaliatory manner. issues, accounting for 99 percent of the Any employee who is found to have global workforce in 2019. engaged in harassment or discrimination according to the terms of this policy, or Lexmark respects the conventions of to have misused his position of authority the International Labour Organization in this regard, is subject to immediate (ILO), which promote workers' rights, disciplinary measures, up to and including fair-employment opportunities, and dismissal. Lexmark is committed to public open channels of communication among reporting; however, due to reasons of employees. Lexmark honors its employees’ individual privacy and legal limitations, free choices and complies with all Lexmark cannot disclose information state and federal workplace laws and about specific cases. Actions taken in guidelines, including those associated response to incidents include the review with labor-organizing activities. Works of the incident as well as the development councils are established at some Lexmark and implementation of remedial plans. European locations that require employers to provide company information for review Lexmark upholds the human rights of our and to engage in worker consultation on employees and treats them with respect certain company decisions. Information as understood by the international on the European Works Councils is community. Lexmark closely monitors our available at www.etuc.org. Lexmark operations to ensure that our company employees are covered by collective complies with international regulations. bargaining agreements where required by Lexmark 2019 Corporate Social Responsibility Report csr.lexmark.com 68 Our Approach Our Operations Our Imaging Solutions Our People & Partners Reporting law, including 7 percent of the total workforce. At Lexmark, there has never been a situation where employee rights to exercise freedom of association for collective bargaining has been at risk. Other ILO and United Nations Global Compact initiatives include the abolition of forced labor, freedom of association, and prohibition of child labor. These initiatives are explained in the Lexmark Code of Business Conduct to which Lexmark and applicable Lexmark suppliers are bound. The Code of Business Conduct also describes the Lexmark Freely Chosen Employment Policy. Our periodic reviews have never found any of our operations to have significant risk for incidents of forced or compulsory labor, child labor, or young workers exposed to hazardous work. All Lexmark operations have undergone human rights review or human rights impact assessments in accordance with Lexmark's adherence to the Responsible Business Alliance (RBA) Code of Conduct and Lexmark's Code of Business Conduct. In our experience, open communication and direct engagement between workers and management are key factors in resolving any workplace issues. Whenever possible, Lexmark typically provides employees with a 30-day notice of significant operational changes that can substantially affect them. In locations with collective bargaining agreements, the notice period and provisions for consultation and negotiation are specified in the collective agreements. No grievances have been filed through formal grievance mechanisms about labor practices or human rights impacts in the reporting period. Equal employment opportunity Lexmark is proudly an Equal Employment Opportunity and Affirmative Action employer. We are committed to equal employment opportunity (EEO) in all areas of our operations. All business activities and employment-related activities are administered without regard to race, color, religion, gender, sexual orientation, gender identity, national origin, disability, age or veteran status. For more information click here. New Lexmark employees are required to understand and abide by the Code of Business Conduct, which addresses EEO and aspects of human rights relevant to our operations. All employees are required to review the Code of Business Conduct every year. Lexmark requires managers to be trained on the human rights aspects of EEO policies. Our stance on racism Lexmark condemns racial injustice and violence, and we acknowledge that the institution of racism still permeates our culture. Each of us has a responsibility to end discrimination and promote healing. Lexmark commits to doing our part, today and every day. Lexmark 2019 Corporate Social Responsibility Report csr.lexmark.com 69 Our Approach Our Operations Our Imaging Solutions Our People & Partners Reporting Health & Safety The health and safety of our employees is a priority for Lexmark. In order to offer workplaces that are free from unsafe equipment, situations and practices, we monitor facilities for safety issues on an ongoing basis. ISO 45001/OHSAS 18001 are international standards providing requirements for an occupational health and safety management system. Lexmark's ISO 45001/OHSAS OHSAS 18001 Certificates 18001 management systems provide a framework for controlling occupational health and safety risks and improving health and safety performance. Lexmark-owned and Click here for a full list of ISO 45001/ -leased research and development and manufacturing facilities are ISO 45001/OHSAS OHSAS 18001 Certificates 18001 certified by an external third party, as is the Shenzhen Asian Customization Center facility. Certified facilities include those with higher risk activities, representing 70 percent of Lexmark employees worldwide. Lexmark has not incurred any fines related to health and safety non-compliance in the last five years. Lexmark employees are involved in setting the objectives for our health and safety management systems. The effectiveness of the Lexmark Safety Program is measured by completion of ISO 45001/OHSAS 18001 objectives and targets as well as internal audits and senior management reviews. These audits and reviews are conducted in conjunction with the conformance audits required as part of ISO/OHSAS recertification. We use the findings to improve our internal processes and to promote best practices across our operations. Lexmark facilities, including smaller leased administrative and sales offices, are guided by our corporate health and safety instructions, which define the essential programs that each facility must manage in order to meet the objectives of our environmental health and safety policy. At Lexmark, it is mandatory to develop written programs that ensure legal and regulatory compliance and address safety-critical processes. Changes to health and safety procedures are communicated to applicable employees through bulletin boards, corporate intranet postings, electronic communications, handbooks and meetings with managers. In Juarez, Mexico, the Lexmark facility's Siempre Seguro program was established to create a Zero Accident culture. Existing safety programs were improved and new ones were added. Ergonomics is one area of continuous focus and improvement. Weekly status meetings and increased engineer training resulted in a significant decrease in ergonomic-related issues. Actions were directed to promote employee participation in accident and work-related illness prevention. A system for employees to submit safety suggestions and observations was implemented and a prize program is used to promote employee participation. The Performance Bonus program was improved with a safety-leading indicator linked to the results of the weekly safety audits. Improved safety communication, awareness and accountability are a large part of the program. The program is periodically reviewed and adjusted based on trends in injury and illness Lexmark 2019 Corporate Social Responsibility Report csr.lexmark.com 70 Our Approach Our Operations Our Imaging Solutions Our People & Partners Reporting reporting. In the United States, Lexmark employees are not represented by trade unions; therefore, no formal work agreements address health and safety. Instead, Lexmark has established health and safety committees at the facility level. The members of these committees represent the interests of all workers. The committees are integral to the operation of the Health & safety data health and safety management systems at each facility, monitoring programs, advising on improvements and collecting employee feedback. Click here for detailed health & safety data Lexmark has corrective action teams that work with personnel from the department or area where nonconformities occur to address nonconformities, monitor and report on progress and determine whether actions are completed. Internal audit teams evaluate the function and effectiveness of actions taken to address nonconformities in the Health and Safety Management System. Employees and contractors with jobs that require health and safety training are offered online, instructor-led, and on-the-job health and safety training annually, and are encouraged to report concerns about health and safety issues. Training requirements are determined by health and safety program managers, as well as employees' direct managers, and are based on job requirements, equipment and materials usage, regulations and other factors. The safety performance of subcontractors is reviewed during initial contract discussions. Subcontractors must have proof that their employees are properly trained and aware of all health and safety aspects of the jobs that they will perform on behalf of Lexmark. Compliance and safety teams conduct inspections on a regular basis. To ensure that action items are tracked and completed in a timely fashion, they document their findings in the ISO 45001/OHSAS 18001 corrective action system (or similar tool). Follow-up inspections verify completion and effectiveness of the actions taken. Best practices are then implemented in other areas or sites. Each Lexmark manufacturing and development facility is required to maintain an emergency preparedness plan as well as an emergency response team. Lexmark complies with applicable local, state and federal regulations for recording and reporting workplace accident statistics. Lexmark continually works toward the goal of an injuryfree workplace. The 2019 reportable injury and illness rate calculated using OSHA injury and illness recordkeeping and reporting requirements was 0.36 injuries per 100 fulltime employees. 1 This is significantly lower than the manufacturing industry average of 1.0 that includes printer manufacturing. 2 Slip, trip and fall, strain injuries and repetitive motion injuries/illnesses were most frequently reported. (Minor injuries are excluded from injury rate data.) The annual lost workday rate was 6.29 lost workdays per 100 full-time employees. Lexmark did not have any reported work-related fatalities and did not have any employees involved in occupational activities with high incidence or high risk of specific diseases. Lexmark does not maintain injury information, injury rate, lost day rate, absentee rate or work-related fatality information for independent contractors working on site. 1 Reporting facilities listed in the Employee Data Dashboard. 2 Computer terminal and other computer peripheral equipment manufacturing industry average per the Bureau of Labor Statistics 2018 Industry Injury and Illness Summary Data Report. Lexmark 2019 Corporate Social Responsibility Report csr.lexmark.com 71 Our Approach Our Operations Our Imaging Solutions Our People & Partners Reporting Diversity A diverse workforce As a global company, Lexmark’s goal is to Lexmark’s DNGs are employee groups have a highly diverse and vibrant workplace created to foster a more inclusive that understands and is responsive to the environment through networking, employee needs of our employees, customers and and community engagement, recruiting partners around the world. Lexmark is efforts and diversity awareness. DNGs are proactive in making our workplace one that established through a grassroots process is inclusive and allows each employee the whereby employees recruit members, opportunity to bring his or her complete self design a mission statement, and develop to work. programming and events to help advance the mission. Each DNG offers a space where Our stance on racism employees can benefit from a supportive Lexmark condemns racial injustice and network as well as celebrate and share violence, and we acknowledge that the their cultures and individuality with others. institution of racism still permeates our culture. Each of us has a responsibility to Mission statement for diversity and end discrimination and promote healing. inclusion at Lexmark Lexmark commits to doing our part, today We, the employees of Lexmark, value and and every day. respect our individual differences. We foster an open and inclusive environment A unified vision that not only embraces new and alternative Lexmark Diversity Council is a tiered ideas, but seeks them out at all levels. This structure comprised of an Executive appreciation of diversity is vital to attract, Diversity Council and Diversity Advisory retain and develop employees to their full Council. Lexmark’s Diversity Network Groups potential. A diverse global workforce that (DNGs) are instrumental in advising and mirrors our customers and the communities supporting these efforts. Each entity works where we do business will lead to greater in partnership with the others to reframe success for our customers, our employees the current initiatives around diversity and our stakeholders. We each take worldwide. Lexmark’s Diversity Mission responsibility to make this happen. Statement is aligned with the ideal future state of diversity at Lexmark. The mission European diversity charter statement encourages our employees Lexmark sites in France, Germany and Spain to embrace individuality of thought and have signed the European Diversity Charter, background as a means of creating success committing to ban discrimination in the for our workforce, our customers and our workplace and create diversity. Joining the stakeholders. These practices help Lexmark charter provides benefits such as offering operate with one unified vision — using the challenges and new opportunities in the individual talents of our diverse workforce field of diversity and sharing knowledge to their full potential. Respecting diversity and best practices with other businesses. fosters good relations within the company as well as in the communities in which we live and work. Lexmark 2019 Corporate Social Responsibility Report csr.lexmark.com 72 Our Approach Our Operations Our Imaging Solutions Our People & Partners Reporting Commitment to Customers At Lexmark, our mission is to deliver unsurpassed service and products that provide unmatched value in the eyes of our customers . To do that, we need to truly understand what our customers value. Like our customers, we value efficiency. We utilize our wide variety of solutions to reduce Learn more about our printing and paper consumption. We partner with our customers to help them make similar reductions by consolidating and optimizing their devices. We work with them how Lexmark to understand their printing needs and offer solutions that will benefit their business supports customers the most. One Lexmark customer continues to reduce its annual paper consumption by utilizing Lexmark paper-saving solutions. This banking industry customer reduced its in cost savings and total pages by 88.5 percent over the last ten years, The data was a beneficial inclusion environmental goals. in their Corporate Social Responsibility (CSR) report, noting that they have a reduced need to recycle paper because they aren’t consuming as much. Understanding customer needs Customer understanding is about creating a clear and accurate picture of how customers feel. We employ a range of methods to learn what our customers think about their experiences and the overall partnership with Lexmark. We use both surveys and interviews to measure how well we are meeting specific needs of our customers. This includes understanding a variety of different customer roles, from decision-makers who buy Lexmark products, to others who sell, deliver, manage, support and use our products, services and solutions. While our customer-facing employees support our global customers on a daily basis, our engineers and product designers also visit with customers to better understand their needs. We conduct usage studies in real work environments and hold regular face-toface business reviews to ensure that our technology, people and processes provide the products solutions and services that address our customers' pain points. Customer-focused improvement Continually improving the way we deliver customer experiences requires strong leadership, a clear vision and an intentional approach. Our improvement efforts are focused at the most important customer interactions: moments of truth and pain points. We combine the right people, processes, technology and systems, and collaborate with key stakeholders to ensure that we are driving changes that will enable our employees to better serve Lexmark customers. Lexmark 2019 Corporate Social Responsibility Report csr.lexmark.com 73 Our Approach Our Operations Our Imaging Solutions Our People & Partners Reporting We conduct customer experience research around a few of the most critical interactions highlighted by our customer journey mapping efforts. Armed with new insights about what was important to customers who buy, deploy and use Lexmark imaging solutions, we engage cross-functional teams to drive initiatives that are designed to deliver enhanced experiences for our customers. We remain focused on meeting our customers’ diverse and dynamic needs, and on delivering differentiated experiences that our customers value and deserve. Anticipating customer needs Our customers' time is valuable and we continually look for ways to increase their productivity. Listening carefully and responding quickly to our customers' needs is important, but we also strive to proactively anticipate and prevent customer problems. We monitor printer fleets for some of the largest companies in the world to detect existing or potential issues before our customers become aware of them. Teams work to find the root causes for problems that customers experience. For complex issues, we bring cross-functional owners together to drive customer-focused improvement into our processes. At Lexmark, our attention to customer needs is fundamental to the way we do business. When we make changes to adapt to the unique needs of our individual customers, we close the loop with them to ensure that our changes are making a difference. Customer-focused employees At Lexmark, our innovative employee performance process worldwide is focused on continuous improvement and improving the experience of our customers. Employees have a discussion with their manager to determine their line-of-site to the customer that helps them focus on rapid and ongoing improvement. These objectives are based on employees' understanding of how their performance connects to the customers and how it is aligned with the strategy of their department and Lexmark. We believe that this focus on improvement and innovation leads to a better experience for all of our customers. We also capture formal feedback from our employees to better understand and continually improve their Lexmark employee experience. We know it takes engaged employees to create engaged and loyal customers. Lexmark 2019 Corporate Social Responsibility Report csr.lexmark.com 74 Our Approach Our Operations Our Imaging Solutions Our People & Partners Reporting Product Health & Safety We prioritize customer and community stages. The individual agencies Sustainability/Environmental, Health health and safety from product responsible for the regulatory marks audit and Safety; Energy; Acoustics; and conception to end-of-life. Lexmark’s our suppliers regularly for compliance. Chemical Emissions. As an example, the internally developed product compliance Any noncompliance or variation notice Product Safety department focuses on engineering tool is used to inform relevant resulting from these audits are promptly the safety of our products throughout parts of our business when certifications addressed within the required compliance the development cycle and investigates and regulations need to be pursued and period and resolved prior to shipping our any reported safety incidents, taking when they will expire or be terminated. products. appropriate action such as recommending design changes or modifications to We comply with worldwide standards Lexmark did not have any recorded health manufacturing processes and procedures. and local laws and test our products in and safety noncompliance or associated The other departments follow a similar laboratories accredited by third-party fines in 2019. approach. agencies. The Regulatory Compliance web page provides additional information Product compliance cross Working together this combined team on Lexmark’s compliance with select functional team ensures our products comply with relevant standards. Lexmark often exceeds Several years ago, Lexmark compliance national and international standards regulatory requirements by pursuing thirdengineers formed a cross functional and ensures the documentation and party voluntary certifications as may be team to share information and develop certification marks needed for devices found in the Product Certifications section. an internal tracking system to drive and are present. In addition, they educate the monitor new and existing compliance development community about design Many of our test labs are certified activities. The team is comprised requirements so the teams will be able or adhere to ISO 17025/ANSI Z540 of representatives from multiple to meet newly introduced or revised standards. This system of certifications departments, each having a different standards. is also used by our suppliers worldwide primary focus. These departments include: at subassembly and finished-product Product Safety; EMC; Fax/Homologation; Product and service information We are committed to providing our customers information about the products and services we provide. Information Type Source Service and service part sourcing, user content, safety/regulatory instructions Tech Library or notices Disposal or recycling information Tech Library, Lexmark CSR report: Return & Recycle Regulatory Compliance web page, Lexmark CSR Report: Materials; Environmental and social impacts Supply Chain; Product Eco Declarations (ECMA 370) Safety Data Sheets Regulatory Compliance web page, Lexmark CSR report: Materials Lexmark 2019 Corporate Social Responsibility Report csr.lexmark.com 75 Our Approach Our Operations Our Imaging Solutions Our People & Partners Reporting Security & Privacy Lexmark respects the privacy of our supported by a team of information Shelf Information and Communication customers and takes safeguarding their security professionals. Technology products. The standard has a personal data very seriously. As of the wide scope as it covers the entire product publication date, we have received no Lexmark designs products to meet ISO/ life cycle. customer complaints regarding any loss IEC 15408 Common Criteria Certification, or misuse of personal information for the an international standard on security Privacy Program calendar year 2019. capabilities. Lexmark is committed to Lexmark's privacy program, Privacy at validating this design through both Lexmark (P@L), is a multi-disciplinary Security of customer information the IEEE 2600 family of standards and global team of dedicated professionals Lexmark maintains security measures to the U.S.-based National Information at both the corporate and business protect personal data against accidental Assurance Partnership's (NIAP's) Hard unit level. Led by a chief privacy officer or unlawful destruction or accidental loss, Copy Device Protection Profile (HCDPP). located at Lexmark's headquarters, the alteration, unauthorized disclosure or program's mission is to protect the privacy access, in particular where the processing Lexmark also follows the Federal of company, employee, customer and other involves the transmission of data over a Information Processing Standards confidential information. P@L ensures network, and against all other unlawful (FIPS) 140 Publication Series issued the proper use and disclosure of such forms of processing. These measures by the National Institute of Standards sensitive information and is committed to ensure a level of security appropriate and Technology (NIST), which outlines fostering a culture of ethics and integrity to the risks presented by the method of requirements and standards for that respects privacy through awareness processing and the categories of data to cryptographic modules, including both and accountability. Within the changing be protected, taking into account the state hardware and software components. landscape of global regulations, P@L of the art and the cost of implementation. Adherence to this standard for hard disk also provides advice and guidance on encryption and IPsec networking helps best privacy practices for the Lexmark ISO 27001 is an information security Lexmark provide the necessary conditions community. management system (ISMS) international to secure information. standard that provides a comprehensive Lexmark invites individuals to make set of requirements for maintaining In addition, Lexmark has been certified inquiries related to their personal confidentiality, integrity and availability to the Open Trusted Technology Provider data. The designated email and postal of data. Lexmark has ISO 27001 Standard (O-TTPS) for Laser Printer addresses are: certification for its worldwide Managed controller cards and firmware stored privacy@lexmark.com Print Services, Predictive Services and on the card. This standard has been Cloud Configurations Services. Lexmark adopted as ISO 20243-1 and addresses Lexmark International, Inc. services certified under ISO 27001 are threats related to maliciously tainted Privacy Mailbox provided in accordance with ISO 27001 and counterfeit products. The O-TTPS 740 West New Circle Road standards or alternative standards that is a set of guidelines, requirements, and Lexington, Kentucky 40550 are substantially equivalent to ISO 27001. recommendations that address specific Lexmark's ISMS is managed by a chief threats to the integrity of hardware Click here to sign up for security news and information security officer who is and software for Commercial Off-theupdates in our Global Preference Center. Lexmark 2019 Corporate Social Responsibility Report csr.lexmark.com 76 Our Approach Our Operations Our Imaging Solutions Our People & Partners Reporting Partnerships Lexmark has formed meaningful partnerships to address areas of need within our communities. Over the years, we have formed positive partnerships with universities, local schools, local aid agencies, nongovernmental organizations and our customers. Understanding the power of teamwork, Lexmark works on joint projects with stakeholders who share our values. For many years, Lexmark has participated in partnerships focused on Science, Technology, Engineering and Math (STEM) education, reforestation initiatives, educational infrastructure improvement, and watershed protection. STEM education partnerships problem-solving and improvements in areas such as supply chain, Lexmark partners with universities to support STEM education. facilities, and lean manufacturing processes. Lexmark has many partnership initiatives with the University of Kentucky, In March 2020, Lexmark and the University of Kentucky Environmental partnerships Office of Technology Commercialization (OTC) furthered their Lexmark has teamed up with PrintReleaf since 2018 to offset partnership with a signed license agreement involving a project internal operations and test exploring the recovery and recycling of precious metals. This printing, since 2018. The agreement is related to and in support of a framework agreement automatic process measures for sponsored research and professional services. The technology our paper consumption and to be developed under the project is a method for recovering calculates the equivalent valuable materials from end of life devices and reusing these number of trees needed to materials in new products. offset the environmental impact. The tree planting is audited by a leading global forestry In addition, Lexmark has been the title auditor and certification is provided. sponsor of the UK Engineering Day (E-Day) since 2017. Lexmark has been a longtime This global reforestation service is now available to Lexmark supporter of this interactive event sharing managed print services customers to reduce their overall the excitement of engineering with schoolenvironmental footprint. They have the opportunity to select aged children. Other areas of support the region of their choice among PrintReleaf's list of geographic include research, faculty support and areas of need. program advising, college advisory board membership and various philanthropic activities. Customer partnerships Lexmark and the PGA of America have been sharing the In Juarez, Mexico, Lexmark partners with Consejo Regional para links together since Lexmark el Desarrollo de la Educación y Sustentabilidad (CONREDES), supported the 2008 Ryder Cup a regional counsel for education with printing technology and and sustainability. The organization solutions. Our partnership has aligns workforce development efforts continuously grown, and now between business and academic Lexmark manages missionsectors. CONREDES arranges industrial critical operations to keep site visits for university students, the Senior, Women’s and PGA providing them the opportunity to Championships and U.S.-based Ryder Cups performing with experience plant operations first-hand. accuracy and efficiency. Lexmark is on site to help set up for the Visits to Lexmark have been focused on operational needs of each PGA Championship event. On the links, Lexmark 2019 Corporate Social Responsibility Report csr.lexmark.com 77 Our Approach Our Operations Our Imaging Solutions Our People & Partners Reporting in the back office, and on the front line, Lexmark's hardware and solutions are a driving factor behind the IT infrastructure. This partnership extended into the communities; trees have been planted each year since 2012 to offset the environmental impact associated with the paper consumed during the championships. Some examples of carefully chosen planting projects include reforestation in areas that have suffered from the negative effects of invasive species, community sports park revitalization, wetland restoration, tornado devastation and city tree canopy needs. Lexmark and Amgen donated nearly 800 drought tolerant tree seedlings and plants to the Growing Works program, run by Turning Point Foundation in Thousand Oaks, California. The program helps place people with mental health challenges on a path to wellness, providing horticultural therapy, employment and job placement in the workforce. In addition, Lexmark donated mature trees that were planted at the Amgen facility located in Juncos, Puerto Rico, as part of an on-site hurricane restoration project. Lexmark also provided Amgen employees in California and Massachusetts with native species tree seedlings to plant at their homes or in the community in celebration of Earth Day. Lexmark and Grainger have planted nearly 10,000 trees to offset paper consumption and in honor of Earth Day. Lexmark partners with numerous customers each day to help them recycle cartridges that are end at life. Through our Lexmark Cartridge Collection Program (LCCP), it is free and easy for customers to ship cartridges to our recycling facilities. This assists them in avoiding the landfill and in meeting their recycling goals. In an effort to raise funds for veterans, Lexmark and Humana, along with GE and SalesForce came together to sponsor an annual stair step race. Since 2013, the sponsors’ employees have raced to the top of the Humana Tower to celebrate health and wellness while supporting various veteran-related charities and organizations. Community partnerships Since 1998, Lexmark has funded and built homes with Habitat for Humanity in Lexington, Kentucky. Lexmark employees use their skills to build a home for the organization each year. In addition to the homes that Lexmark sponsors, employees participate in other Habitat projects, including Women Build, a program that provides the opportunity for women from all walks of life to come together to build stronger, safer communities. Employees also help with Habitat construction projects in other cities. In Cebu, Philippines, Lexmark is an active participant in Gawad Kalinga, a Philippine organization with a mission to end poverty, having built 100 homes in the community since 2006. Lexmark also has a longtime partnership with the United Way organization in several locations around the world, and is a major sponsor of the Bluegrass chapter in Kentucky, supplying both monetary and voluntary contributions. Corporate and employee donations are collected and numerous Care Day events are organized to help areas that are in need. Employees at Lexmark Juarez have given generously of their time and financial support to local initiatives through Fondo Unido, the United Way in Mexico, since 2010. For more information on Lexmark's community partnerships, click here. Lexmark 2019 Corporate Social Responsibility Report csr.lexmark.com 78 Reporting For Lexmark, reporting is about more than just compliance with guidelines or regulations, it’s about offering a clear view of our operations and results to everyone because we know that through open communication and dialogue we will continue to move forward together. Measuring and assessing progress toward specific goals is a hallmark of sustainability processes that Lexmark takes very seriously. We are committed to addressing the disclosure needs of our stakeholders and to continually improving our sustainability performance. Lexmark 2019 Corporate Social Responsibility Report csr.lexmark.com 79 Our Approach Our Operations Our Imaging Solutions Our People & Partners Reporting Reporting Parameters This publication is Lexmark’s tenth Corporate Social Responsibility (CSR) report. Annually, we strive to provide a full account of our CSR and sustainability strategy, and performance in our worldwide operations for our many stakeholders across the globe. This report (January–December 2019) includes updates to key programs and performance metrics as well as a transparent assessment of our progress against established goals. The scope, boundary and measurement methods applied in this report do not significantly differ from previous reports, the last of which was published June 2019. Lexmark was acquired on November 29, 2016, and is now privately owned. This report has been prepared in accordance with the GRI Standards: Core option. Our reporting is also guided by the ISO 26000 international standard and the Ten Principles of the United Nations Global Compact. Lexmark reviewed and verified all data internally. External assurance was not pursued at this time. Lexmark’s CSR report assesses our operations globally. Unless noted, principles and policies referenced in the report apply to worldwide, company-owned locations and to all Lexmark employees. There are no restatements of information from previous reports. The metrics and goals in this report are established and measured by Lexmark International to deliver a meaningful and accurate description of our performance. The complex nature of collecting data in a global manufacturing company with multiple sites and facilities presents challenges in compiling consistent and comparable metrics. While this report includes consistent metrics in most areas, we continue to improve the standardization of our measurement systems. Our performance metrics cover Lexmark-operated facilities. Environmental metrics are reported using widely accepted parameters and units. Using the World Business Council for Sustainable Development (WBCSD) and World Resource Institute (WRI) Greenhouse Gas (GHG) Protocol methodology, we track greenhouse gas emissions, as well as our use of natural gas, fuel oil, diesel, gasoline and electricity. For questions regarding this report, please contact sustainability@lexmark.com. Lexmark 2019 Corporate Social Responsibility Report csr.lexmark.com 80 Our Approach Our Operations Our Imaging Solutions Our People & Partners Reporting GRI Index GRI Standard GRI Standard Title Disclosure Title Location Remarks Omission Number 2019 General Disclosures Lexmark General Disclosures 102-1 Name of the organization Governance International, Inc. Lexmark doesn’t sell Activities, brands, products that are General Disclosures 102-2 Governance products, and services banned in any market worldwide. General Disclosures 102-3 Location of headquarters Governance Lexington, Kentucky General Disclosures 102-4 Location of operations Governance Delaware Corporation owned by a consortium of investors comprised of Ninestar General Disclosures 102-5 Ownership and legal form Corporation, PAG Asia Capital (PAG) and Legend Capital Management Co Ltd. (Legend Capital) General Disclosures 102-6 Markets served Governance Data Dashboard General Disclosures 102-7 Scale of the organization Employees Information on employees Data Dashboard General Disclosures 102-8 and other workers Employees General Disclosures 102-9 Supply chain Supply Chain Significant changes to the GHG Emissions, General Disclosures 102-10 organization and its supply Supply Chain chain Supply Chain, Human Precautionary Principle or Rights Policy, Human General Disclosures 102-11 approach Trafficking and Slavery Statement General Disclosures 102-12 External initiatives Our Stakeholders Membership of General Disclosures 102-13 Our Stakeholders associations Statement from senior General Disclosures 102-14 Letter from Our CEO decision-maker Key impacts, risks, and Risks, Opportunities General Disclosures 102-15 opportunities & Impacts Lexmark 2019 Corporate Social Responsibility Report csr.lexmark.com 81 Our Approach Our Operations Our Imaging Solutions Our People & Partners Reporting GRI Index (continued) GRI Standard GRI Standard Title Disclosure Title Location Remarks Omission Number 2019 General Disclosures Values, principles, Transparency General Disclosures 102-16 standards, and norms of & Ethics behavior Mechanisms for advice Transparency General Disclosures 102-17 and concerns about ethics & Ethics Governance General Disclosures 102-18 Governance structure Executive Profile General Disclosures 102-19 Delegating authority Governance Executive-level responsibility for economic, General Disclosures 102-20 Governance environmental, and social topics Consulting stakeholders on Stakeholders General Disclosures 102-21 economic, environmental, & Materiality and social topics Composition of the highest General Disclosures 102-22 governance body and its Board of Directors committees The Chair of Lexmark's Board of Chair of the highest Directors is Phillip General Disclosures 102-23 Board of Directors governance body Cassou. He is not an executive officer of Lexmark. Nominating and selecting ConfidentiGeneral Disclosures 102-24 the highest governance . ality body constraints The members of Lexmark's Board of Directors complete a General Disclosures 102-25 Conflicts of interest conflicts of interest questionnaire on annual basis. The Board of Directors manages Role of highest governance and directs the General Disclosures 102-26 body in setting purpose, overall purpose and values, and strategy strategy of Lexmark's business. Collective knowledge of General Disclosures 102-27 Board of Directors highest governance body Lexmark 2019 Corporate Social Responsibility Report csr.lexmark.com 82 Our Approach Our Operations Our Imaging Solutions Our People & Partners Reporting GRI Index (continued) GRI Standard GRI Standard Title Disclosure Title Location Remarks Omission Number 2019 General Disclosures Lexmark became Evaluating the highest a privately held Not General Disclosures 102-28 governance body’s company in applicable performance November 2016. Identifying and managing Risks, Opportunities General Disclosures 102-29 economic, environmental, & Impacts and social impacts Effectiveness of risk Risks, Opportunities General Disclosures 102-30 management processes & Impacts Review of economic, Risks, Opportunities General Disclosures 102-31 environmental, and social & Impacts topics Highest governance body’s General Disclosures 102-32 role in sustainability Governance reporting Stakeholders & General Disclosures 102-40 List of stakeholder groups Materiality Collective bargaining General Disclosures 102-41 Human Rights agreements Identifying and selecting Stakeholders & General Disclosures 102-42 stakeholders Materiality Approach to stakeholder Stakeholders & General Disclosures 102-43 engagement Materiality Approach to stakeholder Stakeholders & General Disclosures 102-43 engagement Materiality Key topics and Stakeholders & General Disclosures 102-44 concerns raised Materiality Lexmark no longer Entities included in the publicly issues Not General Disclosures 102-45 consolidated financial consolidated financial applicable statements statements. Defining report content Reporting General Disclosures 102-46 and topic Boundaries Parameters Stakeholders & General Disclosures 102-47 List of material topics Materiality Restatements of Reporting General Disclosures 102-48 information Parameters Lexmark 2019 Corporate Social Responsibility Report csr.lexmark.com 83 Our Approach Our Operations Our Imaging Solutions Our People & Partners Reporting GRI Index (continued) GRI Standard GRI Standard Title Disclosure Title Location Remarks Omission Number 2019 General Disclosures There are no significant changes from previous General Disclosures 102-49 Changes in reporting Governance reporting periods in the list of material topics and topic boundaries. Reporting January December General Disclosures 102-50 Reporting period Parameters 2019 Reporting General Disclosures 102-51 Date of most recent report Parameters Reporting General Disclosures 102-52 Reporting cycle Parameters Contact point for questions Reporting General Disclosures 102-53 regarding the report Parameters Claims of reporting in Reporting General Disclosures 102-54 accordance with the GRI Parameters Standards General Disclosures 102-55 GRI content index GRI Reporting General Disclosures 102-56 External assurance Parameters MATERIAL TOPICS: OUR OPERATIONS Environmental Compliance Management Explanation of the material Stakeholders 103-1 Approach topic and its Boundary & Materiality Non-compliance with Environmental Environmental 307-1 environmental laws and Compliance Management regulations Significant impacts of Biodiversity 304-2 activities, products, and Land & Biodiversity services on biodiversity Habitats protected or Biodiversity 304-3 Land & Biodiversity restored IUCN Red List species and national conservation Biodiversity 304-4 list species with habitats Land & Biodiversity in areas affected by operations Lexmark 2019 Corporate Social Responsibility Report csr.lexmark.com 84 Our Approach Our Operations Our Imaging Solutions Our People & Partners Reporting GRI Index (continued) GRI Standard GRI Standard Title Disclosure Title Location Remarks Omission Number Energy Management Explanation of the material Stakeholders & 103-1 Approach topic and its Boundary Materiality Energy consumption within Energy 302-1 Data Dashboard the organization Energy 302-3 Energy intensity Data Dashboard Reduction of energy Energy 302-4 Energy Consumption consumption Reductions in energy Energy 302-5 requirements of products Product Energy Use and services Greenhouse gas emissions Management Explanation of the material Stakeholders & 103-1 Approach topic and its Boundary Materiality Direct (Scope 1) GHG Data Dashboard Emissions 305-1 emissions Emissions Energy indirect (Scope 2) Data Dashboard Emissions 305-2 GHG emissions Emissions Other indirect (Scope 3) Data Dashboard Emissions 305-3 GHG emissions Emissions Data Dashboard Emissions 305-4 GHG emissions intensity Emissions Reduction of GHG Greenhouse Gas Emissions 305-5 emissions Emissions Emissions of ozoneGreenhouse Gas Emissions 305-6 depleting substances Emissions (ODS) Nitrogen oxides (NOX ), sulfur oxides (SOX ), and Data Dashboard Emissions 305-7 other significant air Emissions emissions Waste Management Explanation of the material Stakeholders & 103-1 Approach topic and its Boundary Materiality Effluents and Water discharge by quality 306-1 Water Management Waste and destination Waste Management, Effluents and Waste by type and 306-2 Data Dashboard Waste disposal method Waste Effluents and 306-3 Significant spills Water Management Waste Lexmark 2019 Corporate Social Responsibility Report csr.lexmark.com 85 Our Approach Our Operations Our Imaging Solutions Our People & Partners Reporting GRI Index (continued) GRI Standard GRI Standard Title Disclosure Title Location Remarks Omission Number Waste Effluents and Transport of hazardous Data Dashboard 306-4 Waste waste Waste Water bodies affected by Effluents and 306-5 water discharges and/or Water Management Waste runoff Water Management Explanation of the material Stakeholders & 103-1 Approach topic and its Boundary Materiality Interactions with water as Water 303-1 Water Management a shared resource Management of water Water Management Water 303-2 discharge-related impacts Data Dashboard-Water Water Management Water 303-3 Water withdrawal Data Dashboard-Water Water Management Water 303-4 Water discharge Data Dashboard-Water MATERIAL TOPICS: OUR PEOPLE & PARTNERS Anti-corruption Management Explanation of the material Stakeholders & 103-1 Approach topic and its Boundary Materiality Operations assessed for Transparency Anti-corruption 205-1 risks related to corruption & Ethics Confirmed incidents of Transparency Anti-corruption 205-3 corruption and actions & Ethics taken Legal actions for antiAnti-competitive competitive behavior, Transparency 206-1 Behavior anti-trust, and monopoly & Ethics practices Customer Health & Safety Management Explanation of the material Stakeholders & 103-1 Approach topic and its Boundary Materiality Lexmark 2019 Corporate Social Responsibility Report csr.lexmark.com 86 Our Approach Our Operations Our Imaging Solutions Our People & Partners Reporting GRI Index (continued) GRI Standard GRI Standard Title Disclosure Title Location Remarks Omission Number Customer Health & Safety 100% of our Assessment of the health significant product Customer Health and safety impacts of 416-1 families are assessed and Safety product and service for health and safety categories impacts. Lexmark did not Incidents of nonhave any recorded Customer Health compliance concerning the health and safety 416-2 and Safety health and safety impacts noncompliance or of products and services associated fines in 2019. Requirements for product Marketing and Product Health 417-1 and service information Labeling & Safety and labeling Customer Privacy Management Explanation of the material Stakeholders & 103-1 Approach topic and its Boundary Materiality As of the publication date, we have received Substantiated complaints no customer complaints concerning breaches of Customer Privacy 418-1 Security & Privacy regarding any loss or customer privacy and misuse of personal losses of customer data information for the calendar year 2019. Ethics Management Explanation of the material Transparency 103-1 Approach topic and its Boundary & Ethics Lexmark did not have Incidents of nonany recorded incidents Marketing and compliance concerning 417-2 of non-compliance for Labeling product and service service information or information and labeling labeling in 2019. Lexmark did not have any Incidents of nonMarketing and Transparency non-compliance concerning 417-3 compliance concerning Labeling & Ethics marketing communication marketing communications in 2019. Lexmark has not been subject to any significant fines or nonmonetary sanctions for Non-compliance with laws Socioeconomic Transparency noncompliance of laws and 419-1 and regulations in the Compliance & Ethics regulations related to accounting social and economic area fraud, human rights, workplace discrimination, health and safety or corruption in 2019. Lexmark 2019 Corporate Social Responsibility Report csr.lexmark.com 87 Our Approach Our Operations Our Imaging Solutions Our People & Partners Reporting GRI Index (continued) GRI Standard GRI Standard Title Disclosure Title Location Remarks Omission Number Human Rights Management Explanation of the material Stakeholders & 103-1 Approach topic and its Boundary Materiality Labor/ Minimum notice periods Management 402-1 regarding operational Human Rights Relations changes Diversity and Equal Diversity of governance Data Dashboard 405-1 Opportunity bodies and employees Employees Incidents of discrimination Non-discrimination 406-1 and corrective actions Human Rights taken At Lexmark, there has Operations and suppliers Freedom of never been a situation in which the right to Association where employee rights to 407-1 freedom of association Human Rights and Collective exercise freedom of and collective bargaining Bargaining association for collective may be at risk bargaining has been at risk. Operations and suppliers Human Rights, Child Labor 408-1 at significant risk for Supply Chain incidents of child labor Operations and suppliers Human Rights, Forced or at significant risk for 409-1 Human Trafficking & Compulsory Labor incidents of forced or Slavery Statement compulsory labor All of our security personnel Security personnel trained are trained in the Lexmark’s Security Practices 410-1 in human rights policies or Human Rights policies and procedures for procedures human rights issues and their application to security. Lexmark has never been Incidents of violations Rights of cited for any human rights 411-1 involving rights of Human Rights Indigenous Peoples violations, including the rights indigenous peoples of indigenous employees. Operations that have Human Rights been subject to human 412-1 Human Rights Assessment rights reviews or impact assessments Employee training on Human Rights 412-2 human rights policies or Human Rights Assessment procedures Labor Management Explanation of the material Stakeholders & 103-1 Approach topic and its Boundary Materiality Lexmark 2019 Corporate Social Responsibility Report csr.lexmark.com 88 Our Approach Our Operations Our Imaging Solutions Our People & Partners Reporting GRI Index (continued) GRI Standard GRI Standard Title Disclosure Title Location Remarks Omission Number Labor Information on Lexmark’s defined benefit plan can be Defined benefit plan found on Lexmark’s Economic 201-3 obligations and other 5500 filing, this Performance retirement plans can be found on FreeERISA by searching Lexmark’s name. New employee hires and Data Dashboard Employment 401-1 employee turnover Employees Benefits provided to fulltime employees that are Commitment to Employment 401-2 not provided to temporary Employees or part-time employees Commitment to Employment 401-3 Parental leave Employees Training and Average hours of training Data Dashboard 404-1 Education per year per employee Employees Programs for upgrading Training and employee skills and Commitment to 404-2 Education transition assistance Employees programs Occupational Health and Safety Management Explanation of the material Stakeholders & 103-1 Approach topic and its Boundary Materiality Worker training on Occupational 403-5 occupational health and Health & Safety Health and Safety safety Workers covered by an Occupational occupational health and 403-8 Health & Safety Health and Safety safety management system Occupational Data Dashboard 403-9 Work-related injuries Health and Safety Employees Occupational Data Dashboard 403-10 Work-related ill health Health and Safety Employees Lexmark 2019 Corporate Social Responsibility Report csr.lexmark.com 89 Our Approach Our Operations Our Imaging Solutions Our People & Partners Reporting GRI Index (continued) GRI Standard GRI Standard Title Disclosure Title Location Remarks Omission Number MATERIAL TOPICS: OUR IMAGING SOLUTIONS Innovation Management Explanation of the material Stakeholders & 103-1 Approach topic and its Boundary Materiality The management Management Materials 103-2 approach and its Approach Return & Recycle components Materials Management Explanation of the material Stakeholders & 103-1 Approach topic and its Boundary Materiality Recycled input materials Materials 301-2 Materials used MATERIAL TOPICS: PRODUCT COMPLIANCE Management Explanation of the material Stakeholders & 103-1 Approach topic and its Boundary Materiality Product Health Safety, Stakeholders The management Management & Materiality, 103-2 approach and its Approach Product Energy components Use, Product Certifications Supply Chain Responsibility Stakeholders & Management Explanation of the material 103-1 Materiality, Approach topic and its Boundary Supply Chain Procurement Proportion of spending on 204-1 Supply Chain Practices local suppliers Lexmark 2019 Corporate Social Responsibility Report csr.lexmark.com 90 Our Approach Our Operations Our Imaging Solutions Our People & Partners Reporting United Nations Global Compact Index The United Nations Global Compact is a strategic policy initiative for businesses that are committed to aligning their operations and strategies with 10 universally accepted principles in the areas of human rights, labor, environment and anti-corruption. As stated by Lexmark's CEO, Allen Waugerman, “Lexmark International has and will continue to support the principles and initiatives of the United Nations Global Compact.” Below is an index of our reporting against the United Nations Global Compact principles within the content of this 2018 performance update of our Corporate Social Responsibility Report. Principle Description Report Section / Links Number Support and respect protection of internationally Human Rights, Human Rights Policy, Human Trafficking 1 proclaimed human rights and Slavery Statement, Supply Chain Make sure business is not complicit in human Human Rights, Human Rights Policy, Human Trafficking 2 rights abuses and Slavery Statement, Supply Chain Uphold freedom of association and the effective 3 Human Rights, Human Rights Policy recognition of the right to collective bargaining Support elimination of all forms of forced and Human Rights, Human Rights Policy, Human Trafficking 4 compulsory labor and Slavery Statement 5 Support effective abolition of child labor Human Rights, Human Rights Policy Eliminate discrimination in employment and Human Rights, Human Rights Policy, 6 occupation Lexmark Code of Business Conduct CSR Policies & Statements, Corporate Social Responsibility Support a precautionary approach to 7 Policy, Environmental Health & Safety Policy, Climate environmental challenges Change Policy Energy Consumption, Greenhouse Gas Emissions, Water Undertake initiatives to promote greater 8 Management, Waste Management, Land & Biodiversity, environmental responsibility Environmental Management, Return & Recycle Encourage the development and diffusion of Products Life Cycle, Materials, Emissions, Energy Use, 9 environmentally friendly technologies Product Certifications, Return & Recycle, Packaging Work against all forms of corruption, including 10 Transparency & Ethics extortion and bribery Lexmark 2019 Corporate Social Responsibility Report csr.lexmark.com 91 Our Approach Our Operations Our Imaging Solutions Our People & Partners Reporting United Nations Sustainable Development Goals Lexmark supports the United Nations Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs) and prioritized three goals that align with our business commitments and strategy. Lexmark has many initiatives around the globe focused on water conservation, reuse and watershed restoration. For example, in Juarez, Mexico, a water treatment plant was installed on site to clean and filter water for reuse in site facility operations and manufacturing processes. A rainwater harvesting system was installed in Lexington, Kentucky, to capture storm water for use in site cooling towers. This reduces the need to purchase water and controls excess runoff, preventing erosion and allowing water to naturally enter the groundwater system. Additionally, Lexmark employees participate in an annual creek cleanup on a watershed that is not only a source of drinking water for a nearby community, but also a wildlife habitat for numerous aquatic and terrestrial species. For more details, click here. Lexmark products are designed with the circular economy in mind. Lexmark devices are durable and designed for long-life use. Post Consumer Recycled (PCR) materials are used in both printers and toner cartridges. The Lexmark Cartridge Collection Program makes recycling easy for users. Cartridges are returned to Lexmark’s R2 certified recycling center where they are either remanufactured or materially recycled for inclusion in new products. Lexmark is an industry leader in the use of PCR plastic content in products. Lexmark-owned sites are ISO 14001, ISO 45001/OHSAS 18001 and ISO 9001 certified. Lexmark has global environmental goals in place to minimize our ecological footprint, each site monitors consumption toward these goals. Lexmark participates in a number of worldwide reforestation projects to improve local watersheds and repair damage caused by natural disasters, invasive insects, and deforestation due to human activity. Lexmark employees support land and biodiversity preservation with volunteer efforts such as community, creek and road cleanups, and planting a pollinator garden at the headquarters property along with several rain gardens. Lexmark also provides native tree seedlings at no cost for employees to plant at their homes or in the community. Additionally, Lexmark has coordinated the removal of invasive species in impacted watersheds. Lexmark 2019 Corporate Social Responsibility Report csr.lexmark.com 92 Our Approach Our Operations Our Imaging Solutions Our People & Partners Reporting United Nations Sustainable Development Goals Goal 1 Goal 2 Goal 3 Goal 4 End poverty in all its End hunger, achieve food Ensure healthy lives and Ensure inclusive and forms everywhere security and improved promote well-being for quality education for nutrition and promote all at all ages all and promote lifelong Lexmark’s progress sustainable agriculture learning Global Citizenship Lexmark’s progress Lexmark’s progress Global Citizenship, Lexmark’s progress Global Citizenship Employee Health & Global Citizenship, Safety, Commitment to Partnerships Employees Goal 5 Goal 6 Goal 7 Goal 8 Achieve gender Ensure access to water Ensure access to Promote inclusive and equality and and sanitation for all affordable, reliable, sustainable economic empower all women sustainable and growth, employment and girls Lexmark’s progress modern energy for all and decent work Water Management, for all Lexmark’s progress Land & Biodiversity, Lexmark’s progress Global Citizenship, Cane Run Creek, Energy Consumption, Lexmark’s progress Diversity, Partnerships, KPIs Product Energy, KPIs Human Rights, Supply Commitment to Chain, Diversity, Employees Commitment to Employees Goal 9 Goal 10 Goal 11 Goal 12 Build resilient Reduce inequality within Make cities inclusive, Ensure sustainable infrastructure, and among countries safe, resilient and consumption and promote sustainable sustainable production patterns industrialization and Lexmark’s progress foster innovation Global Citizenship, Lexmark’s progress Lexmark’s progress Human Rights, Global Citizenship KPI, Energy Consumption, Lexmark’s progress Supply Chain, Diversity, Risks & Opportunities GHG Emissions, Waste Global Citizenship, Accessibility, Commitment Management, Supply Return & Recycle, to Employees Chain, Materials, Product Circular Economy, PCR, Energy, Return & Recycle Innovations in Cartridge Recycling Goal 13 Goal 14 Goal 15 Goal 16 Take urgent action to Conserve and sustainably Sustainably manage Promote just, peaceful combat climate change use the oceans, seas and forests, combat and inclusive societies and its impacts marine resource desertification, halt and reverse land degradation, Lexmark’s progress Lexmark’s progress Lexmark’s progress halt biodiversity loss Global Citizenship, GHG Emissions Land & Biodiversity, Supply Chain KPIs Cane Run Creek Lexmark’s progress Global Citizenship, Partnerships, Product Life Cycle, Land & Biodiversity, Reforestation, Monarch Waystation Goal 17 Revitalize the global partnership for sustainable development Lexmark’s progress UNGC Index, Innovations in Cartridge Recycling Lexmark 2019 Corporate Social Responsibility Report csr.lexmark.com 93 Our Approach Our Operations Our Imaging Solutions Our People & Partners Reporting ISO 26000 Index Subjects Issues References 6.2 ORGANIZATIONAL GOVERNANCE 6.2 Organizational governance Governance 6.3 HUMAN RIGHTS 6.3.3 Due diligence Human Rights, Supply Chain, Human Trafficking 6.3.4 Human rights risk situations Human Rights 6.3.5 Avoidance of complicity Human Rights 6.3.6 Resolving grievances Human Rights 6.3.7 Discrimination and vulnerable groups Human Rights, Human Rights Policy, Diversity 6.3.8 Civil and political rights Human Rights 6.3.9 Economic, social and cultural rights Human Rights Fundamental principles and rights at 6.3.10 Human Rights, Supply Chain, Human Trafficking work 6.4 LABOUR PRACTICES Employment and employment 6.4.3 Human Rights, Commitment to Employees, Supply Chain relationships 6.4.4 Conditions of work and social protection Human Rights, Commitment to Employees 6.4.5 Social dialogue Human Rights 6.4.6 Health and safety at work Health & Safety, Commitment to Employees Human development and training in the 6.4.7 Commitment to Employees workplace 6.5 THE ENVIRONMENT Greenhouse Gas Emissions, Water Management, 6.5.3 Prevention of pollution Waste Management, Land & Biodiversity, Return & Recycle, Energy Consumption, Energy Use, Emissions Materials, Greenhouse Gas Emissions, Water Management, Waste Management, 6.5.4 Sustainable resource use Land & Biodiversity, Energy Consumption, Energy Use, Product Life Cycle, Return & Recycle, Packaging Lexmark 2019 Corporate Social Responsibility Report csr.lexmark.com 94 Our Approach Our Operations Our Imaging Solutions Our People & Partners Reporting ISO 26000 Index (continued) Subjects Issues References 6.5 THE ENVIRONMENT Climate change mitigation and Greenhouse Gas Emissions, Energy Consumption, 6.5.5 adaptation Energy Use, Risks, Opportunities & Impacts Protection of the environment, 6.5.6 biodiversity and restoration of natural Land & Biodiversity, Water Management habitats 6.6 FAIR OPERATING PRACTICES 6.6.3 Anti-corruption Transparency & Ethics 6.6.4 Responsible political involvement Governance 6.6.5 Fair competition Transparency & Ethics Supply Chain, Materials, Energy Promoting social responsibility in the 6.6.6 Consumption, Packaging, Human Rights, value chain Human Trafficking 6.6.7 Respect for property rights Transparency & Ethics, Human Rights 6.7 CONSUMER ISSUES Fair marketing, factual and unbiased 6.7.3 information and fair contractual Transparency & Ethics, Product Health & Safety practices 6.7.4 Protecting consumers’ health and safety Product Health & Safety Product Health & Safety, Packaging, Waste 6.7.5 Sustainable consumption Management, Materials, Product Life cycle, Return & Recycle, Energy Use, Energy Consumption Consumer service, support, and 6.7.6 Product Health & Safety, Commitment to Customers complaint and dispute resolution 6.7.7 Consumer data protection and privacy Security & Privacy 6.7.8 Access to essential services Global Citizenship 6.7.9 Education and awareness Product Health & Safety, Commitment to Customers 6.8 COMMUNITY INVOLVEMENT AND DEVELOPMENT Global Citizenship, Land & Biodiversity, Commitment to 6.8.3 Community involvement Employees, Partnerships Commitment to Employees, Global Citizenship, 6.8.4 Education and culture Diversity Employment creation and skills 6.8.5 Commitment to Employees development Lexmark 2019 Corporate Social Responsibility Report csr.lexmark.com 95 Our Approach Our Operations Our Imaging Solutions Our People & Partners Reporting ISO 26000 Index (continued) Subjects Issues References 6.8 COMMUNITY INVOLVEMENT AND DEVELOPMENT 6.8.6 Technology development and access Commitment to Employees, Global Citizenship 6.8.7 Wealth and income creation Commitment to Employees 6.8.8 Health Commitment to Employees 6.8.9 Social investment Global Citizenship Lexmark 2019 Corporate Social Responsibility Report csr.lexmark.com 96 Our Approach Our Operations Our Imaging Solutions Our People & Partners Reporting Data Dashboard / Energy Total energy: Operations within organization Total energy: Operations within organization (gigajoules) 2005 2015 2016 2017 2018 2019 1,492,903 938,486 871,287 884,546 813,635 806,467 Total energy intensity: Operations within organization (gigajoules/square foot) 2005 2015 2016 2017 2018 2019 0.179 0.206 0.189 0.191 0.207 0.207 Facility level energy (Scope 1 and 2): Operations within organization (gigajoules) 2015 2016 2017 2018 2019 Lexington, KY, U.S. 267,881 256,735 241,309 202,494 191,093 Boulder, CO, U.S. 274,088 280,518 324,909 339,953 359,620 Juarez, Mexico 245,098 186,282 172,687 156,044 164,303 Cebu City, Philippines 44,219 42,337 36,402 30,668 26,646 Kolkata, India 12,063 10,686 9,479 7,896 6,926 Budapest, Hungary 6,649 5,894 5,593 3,826 3,634 Other 88,488 88,835 94,167 72,755 54,245 Lexmark 2019 Corporate Social Responsibility Report csr.lexmark.com 97 Our Approach Our Operations Our Imaging Solutions Our People & Partners Reporting Data Dashboard / Energy (continued) Energy consumption by type/location: Operations within organization (gigajoules) Direct energy by type (Corresponds to 2015 2016 2017 2018 2019 Scope 1 emissions) Natural Gas 326,879 284,539 319,685 320,027 340,625 Diesel/gas oil 35,007 33,862 39,723 29,988 14,851 Total 361,886 318,401 359,408 350,015 355,476 Indirect energy by type and location (Corresponds to 2015 2016 2017 2018 2019 Scope 2 emissions) ELECTRICITY PURCHASED Lexington, KY, U.S. 153,763 142,552 129,559 105,194 96,623 Boulder, CO, U.S. 188,224 186,276 185,364 173,986 181,014 Juarez, Mexico 121,047 113,157 105,985 100,584 100,208 Cebu City, Philippines 40,911 40,302 35,502 30,283 25,967 Kolkata, India 9,973 9,973 9,200 7,354 6,458 Budapest, Hungary 4,626 3,327 3,284 1,986 1,826 Other 58,056 57,299 56,244 44,233 38,895 Total 576,600 552,886 525,138 463,620 450,991 Energy consumption boundary and accounting methodology Organizational boundary electrically derived. Reported data covers the 2019 calendar year. Energy use data represents approximately 100 percent of Lexmark’s 2019 square Energy intensity is calculated per Lexmark square footage. footage of occupied space. Reported data 2015 -2017 has been re-calculated for the Lexmark Enterprise Software divesture. Square footage Data prior to the 2015 base year (including 2005) has not been recalculated for divestitures. 2015 2016 2017 2018 2019 4,545,407 4,602,342 4,633,431 3,928,007 3,893,340 Data input and calculation methodology Lexmark calculates energy usage for owned and operated sites Direct energy consumption includes natural gas and diesel/gas and fuel used in company owned/leased vehicles under Scope oil use. We are not currently using renewable fuel sources or 1. Data is calculated from utility bills, onsite refrigerant tracking, generating electricity. maintenance records, site fuel estimates or rental agency vehicle reports, and other documentation. For leased sites where Indirect energy consumption includes electricity purchased for metered data is available through utility bills and other invoices, use at Lexmark locations. the data is compared to the average intensity for the region and increased for HVAC energy support if higher, or left the same Lexmark uses the World Business Council for Sustainable as a region otherwise. For leased sites where no metered data Development (WBCSD) and World Resource Institute (WRI) is available, current Commercial Buildings Energy Consumption Greenhouse Gas Protocol (GHG Protocol) methodology to track Survey (CBECS) data is used to calculate energy for U.S. locations GHG emissions, as well as our use of natural gas, fuel oil, diesel, and International Energy Agency (IEA) data is used to estimate gasoline and electricity. usage for leased locations in other parts of the world. All energy use (direct office use and HVAC support) is assumed to be Lexmark 2019 Corporate Social Responsibility Report csr.lexmark.com 98 Our Approach Our Operations Our Imaging Solutions Our People & Partners Reporting Data Dashboard / Emissions Greenhouse gas emissions Total Scope 1 and 2 GHG emissions (Metric tons CO2e) 2005 2015 2016 2017 2018 2019 Scope 1 Direct 28,679 20,857 19,326 21,352 21,134 20,687 Scope 2 Indirect 185,223 102,081 94,777 93,892 82,006 76,249 Total Scope 1 and 2 GHG Emissions 213,902 122,938 114,103 115,244 103,140 96,936 Scope 1 and 2 GHG emissions intensity (Metric tons CO2e/sq ft) 2015 2016 2017 2018 2019 Scope 1 Direct 0.0046 0.0042 0.0046 0.0054 0.0053 Scope 2 Indirect 0.0225 0.0206 0.0203 0.0209 0.0196 Total Scope 1 and 2 GHG Emissions 0.0270 0.0248 0.0249 0.0263 0.0249 Lexmark 2019 Corporate Social Responsibility Report csr.lexmark.com 99 Our Approach Our Operations Our Imaging Solutions Our People & Partners Reporting Data Dashboard / Emissions (continued) Greenhouse gas emissions by scope and type (Metric tons CO2e) Scope 1 emissions 2015 2016 2017 2018 2019 Natural Gas 17,409 15,288 17,431 17,723 18,200 Diesel/gas oil 152 144 95 42 56 Refrigerants 1,083 1,715 1,285 1,356 1,444 Owned vehicles/transportation fleet 2,213 2,179 2,541 2,013 987 Total 20,857 19,326 21,352 21,134 20,867 Scope 2 emissions 2015 2016 2017 2018 2019 Electricity (purchased) 102,081 94,777 93,892 82,006 76,249 Scope 3 emissions 2015 2016 2017 2018 2019 Purchased Goods and Services (Category 1) 251,795 266,474 171,717 257,364 Capital Goods (Category 2) 7,114 15,296 20,256 12,202 Upstream Transport (Category 4) 21,890* 11,615 10,101 7,949 Waste in Operations (Category 5) Negligible Negligible Negligible Negligible Business Travel (Category 6) 17,634 17,821 12,256 8,000 7,219 Employee Commuting (Category 7) 25,262 15,929 14,525 13,674 Downstream Transport (Category 9) 636 Use of Sold Products, Direct Emissions 598,008 615,090 528,346 641,557 Energy use of product Use of Sold Products, Upstream Transport (Categories 11, 4) Direct and Indirect Emissions, 14,164,318 14,607,209 14,511,763 14,697,124 Including Paper Use of Sold Products, Upstream Transport (Categories 11, 4) Direct and Indirect Emissions, 2,459,408 2,616,667 2,708,032 2,946,658 Excluding Paper End of Life Treatment of Sold Products 2,202 2,356 2,468 2,202 (Category 12) Downstream Leased Assets (Category 13) 24,841 22,862 19,254 8,112 2,870 Lexmark 2019 Corporate Social Responsibility Report csr.lexmark.com 100 Our Approach Our Operations Our Imaging Solutions Our People & Partners Reporting Data Dashboard / Emissions (continued) GHG consumption boundary and accounting methodology Organizational boundary Square footage The boundary for GHG emissions covers Scope 1, Scope 2 and Scope 3 emissions. 2015 2016 2017 2018 2019 4,545,407 4,602,342 4,633,431 3,928,007 3,893,340 Scope 1/Direct emissions include the use of fossil fuels, refrigerants and fleet vehicle transport based on available data. Data input and calculation methodology Lexmark publicly reports GHG emissions that are related to the • Scope 1 fossil fuel data was reported by the following use of direct and indirect energy through the Carbon Disclosure Lexmark sites: Lexington, Kentucky; Boulder, Colorado; Cebu Project. Using the World Business Council for Sustainable City, Philippines; Juarez, Mexico; Kolkata, India; Budapest, Development (WBCSD) and World Resource Institute (WRI) Hungary; and estimated for U.S. leased offices, representing Greenhouse Gas Protocol (GHG Protocol) methodology, we track 87 percent of Lexmark’s 2019 square footage of occupied greenhouse gas emissions, as well as our use of natural gas, fuel space. Scope 1 fossil fuel emissions for U.S. leased offices oil, diesel, gasoline and electricity. were estimated using 2012 Commercial Buildings Energy Consumption Survey (CBECS) data. Scope 1 emissions • Scope 1 refrigerant usage was reported for Lexington, Scope 1 emissions data is received from site inputs such as onsite Kentucky; Juarez, Mexico; Cebu City, Philippines; and Kolkata, refrigerant tracking, natural gas utility bills and maintenance India, representing 78 percent of Lexmark’s 2019 square records. footage of occupied space. • Scope 1 vehicle data was provided from sites in the United Scope 2 emissions States, Canada and Switzerland; Austria, Germany; Budapest, Scope 2 emissions are calculated based on energy usage for all Hungary; Juarez, Mexico; Shenzhen, China; Kolkata, India; owned and operated sites. Data is calculated from utility bills or and Cebu City, Philippines. Leased/owned vehicle reports are landlord billings where available. For leased sites where metered provided by rental agencies and/or site estimations. data is available through utility bills and other invoices, the data is compared to the average intensity for the region and increased The Scope 2 emissions boundary represents indirect energy for HVAC energy support if higher or left the same as a region consumption/electrical power purchased for use at approximately otherwise. For leased sites where no metered data is available, 100 percent of Lexmark owned and leased locations using the current Commercial Buildings Energy Consumption Survey (CBECS) operational control approach. Data prior to the 2015 base year data and 2018 eGrid factors are used to calculate energy and will not be recalculated. emissions for U.S. locations and International Energy Agency (IEA) data is used to estimate usage and emissions for leased locations Scope 1 and 2 GHG emission intensity is calculated per Lexmark in other parts of the world. All energy use (direct office use and square footage. HVAC support) is assumed to be electrically derived. Scope 3 GHG emissions Category Description Scope/Methodology Lexmark conducts Life Cycle Assessments (LCAs) of our imaging equipment in accordance to ISO 14040 and ISO 14044. The LCAs cover the emissions of our products from raw material extraction and processing through manufacturing and distribution through use and end-of-life and will be used to report estimated emissions for Purchased Goods and Services, as well as Category 1 Purchased Goods and Services other Scope 3 categories. Assumptions and methodology behind our LCAs may be found in our EPDs, which are published according to ISO 14045 and third party verified for completeness and accuracy. A small amount of dot matrix printers and acquisition laser models are not included. 2019 reporting does not include full cartridge impacts; but will be a goal of future reporting. Lexmark 2019 Corporate Social Responsibility Report csr.lexmark.com 101 Our Approach Our Operations Our Imaging Solutions Our People & Partners Reporting Data Dashboard / Emissions (continued) Scope 3 GHG emissions (continued) Category Description Scope/Methodology Assessed using average-spend based method and emission factors from Embodied Energy and Emission Intensity Data (3E1D) published by the Category 2 Capital Goods National Institute for Environmental Studies Center for Global Environmental Research. Fuel and energy related Category 3 activities not accounted for in Not applicable to Lexmark at this time. Scope 1 and 2 Emissions provided by transport partner for road, air and sea transport. Category 4 Upstream Transport *U.S. transport data as calculated through the US EPA SmartWay tool included in 2016 only. Emissions resulting from non-hazardous and hazardous waste disposal at Lexmark reporting locations (see Waste Management section/Waste Dashboard for locations) assessed using the waste-type-specific method where emissions factors are published. The following sources were used: U.S. Environmental Protection Agency’s (EPA) Waste Reduction Model (WARM), Category 5 Waste in Operations Version 14, Waste Sector GHG Protocol Calculation Tool, Version 5, October 2013, Institute for Global Environmental Strategies (IGES) GHG Simulation Version II, and David A. Turner*, Ian D. Williams, Simon Kemp, Greenhouse gas emission factors for recycling of source-segregated waste materials (2015). Covers business travel worldwide based on availability of data. 2019 reporting covers data as reported for U.S. (rentals and fleet vehicles), Canada (rentals and fleet vehicles), Kolkata, Cebu, Shenzhen, Juarez, Switzerland, Austria, Germany and Budapest. Air travel is currently reported Category 6 Business Travel for locations worldwide using our primary corporate travel agencies. We estimate that the data not currently reported is minimal. Leased vehicle reports are provided by rental agencies. Travel agency partners provide reports for business travel via air. Estimated using the average data method. When available, average annual working days data was sourced for representative geographies. Vehicle types and average commute distances were primarily based on a U.S. trans­ Category 7 Employee Commuting portation survey, with inputs from geographies where data existed. The World Resources Institute (2015) GHG Protocol tool for mobile combustion, Version 2.6 was used for calculation in 2016. The National Household Transport Survey was used for calculation in 2017 through 2019. Category 8 Upstream Leased Assets Not applicable at this time. Category 9 Downstream Transport Data provided by transport partner. Category 10 Processing of Sold Products Not assessed at this time. Calculated as part of the imaging equipment LCAs. Includes some Category 11 Use of Sold Products assumptions for transport within the U.S. that are calculated in the LCAs. Calculated as part of the imaging equipment LCAs. Emissions from End of Life Treatment of Sold Category 12 processing cartridges returned to Lexmark through LCCP are captured in Products Scopes 1 and 2 for Lexmark-owned return facilities. Data included for Lexmark owned space leased to tenants for which the Category 13 Downstream Leased Assets tenant has operational control. Lexmark 2019 Corporate Social Responsibility Report csr.lexmark.com 102 Our Approach Our Operations Our Imaging Solutions Our People & Partners Reporting Data Dashboard / Emissions (continued) Category 14 Franchises Not applicable to Lexmark at this time. Category 15 Investments Not applicable to Lexmark at this time. Regulated air emissions (U.S. short tons per year) Methane 2015 2016 2017 2018 2019 Lexington, KY, U.S. 0.12 0.11 0.12 0.10 0.10 Volatile organic compounds (non-methane) 2015 2016 2017 2018 2019 Boulder, CO, U.S. 4.28 5.06 4.44 2.95 2.46 Lexington, KY, U.S. 0.31 0.29 0.31 0.23 0.24 Juarez, Mexico 34.04 16.60 19.08 22.66 17.79 SOx 2015 2016 2017 2018 2019 Lexington, KY, U.S. 0.06 0.04 0.05 0.03 0.03 Juarez, Mexico 0.03 0.02 0.02 0.02 0.02 NOx 2015 2016 2017 2018 2019 Lexington, KY, U.S. 5.49 5.15 5.52 4.23 4.31 Juarez, Mexico 3.15 1.86 1.69 1.41 1.63 CO2 2015 2016 2017 2018 2019 Boulder, CO, U.S. 347.90 379.00 428.00 433 491 Lexington, KY, U.S. 6,038.81 5,895.01 6,317.70 4,988.62 4,995.74 Juarez, Mexico 4,009.65 2,361.45 2,151.11 1,788.49 2,067.72 Particulate matter (PM10) 2015 2016 2017 2018 2019 Boulder, CO, U.S. 0.06 0.06 0.06 0.06 0.06 Lexington, KY, U.S. 0.41 0.39 0.42 0.32 0.30 Juarez, Mexico 0.24 0.14 0.13 0.11 0.12 Hazardous air pollutants 2015 2016 2017 2018 2019 Boulder, CO, U.S. 0.17 0.27 0.31 0.25 0.23 Lexington, KY, U.S. 0.09 0.09 0.08 0.08 0.08 Toxic release inventory (TRI) 2015 2016 2017 2018 2019 Boulder, CO, U.S. 1.89 1.77 1.97 1.45 * Registro de Emisiones y 2015 2016 2017 2018 2019 Transferencia de Contaminantes (RETC) Juarez, Mexico 3,113.03 1,831.84 1,667.12 1,381.17 1,590.61 *Data is not available at this time and will be updated when received. Lexmark 2019 Corporate Social Responsibility Report csr.lexmark.com 103 Our Approach Our Operations Our Imaging Solutions Our People & Partners Reporting Data Dashboard / Emissions (continued) Regulated air emission boundary and accounting methodology Regulated air emissions are reported for An error was identified in the program that our primary research and development calculates Volatile Organic Compounds and manufacturing locations, with the (non-methane), CO2 and Hazardous Air exception of Cebu City, Philippines. Pollutant at the Boulder location. The 2016 data reflects the program change; prior Lexmark monitors regulated air emissions years have not been recalculated. and submits the necessary reports to agencies requesting this information. Meeting our goals to reduce or eliminate toxic release inventory (TRI) chemicals on site, Lexmark works to maintain minimal emissions Lexmark 2019 Corporate Social Responsibility Report csr.lexmark.com 104 Our Approach Our Operations Our Imaging Solutions Our People & Partners Reporting Data Dashboard / Water Total water withdrawal Total water withdrawal (m3) 2005 2015 2016 2017 2018 2019 1,030,342 459,189 498,338 470,464 366,861 300,917 Water reuse (m3) 2016 2017 2018 2019 Juarez, Mexico 33,606 41,714 65,617 59,189 Water withdrawal by facility (m3) 2015 2016 2017 2018 2019 Lexington, KY, U.S. 188,421 179,958 177,153 103,543 80,524 Boulder, CO, U.S. 96,904 91,809 98,503 96,479 82,138 Juarez, Mexico 118,001 166,573 131,259 115,400 107,441 Cebu City, Philippines 23,109 26,337 27,286 22,257 20.452 (LRDC) Kolkata, India 4,930 4,925 4,918 5,027 4,712 Budapest, Hungary 2,976 3,224 3,774 2,539 2,123 Shenzhen, China 1,110 1,036 2,324 3,187 3,527 Other 14 843 Lexmark 2019 Corporate Social Responsibility Report csr.lexmark.com 105 Our Approach Our Operations Our Imaging Solutions Our People & Partners Reporting Data Dashboard / Water (continued) Water withdrawal by source (m3) All areas with All areas water stress Surface water (total) 25,454 25,454 Ground water (total) 0 0 Seawater (total) 0 0 Produced water (total) 0 0 Third-Party (total) 275,463 265,101 Surface water 157,660 Groundwater 107,441 Seawater 0 Produced water 0 Total water withdrawal 300,917 290,555 *All water withdrawn is Freshwater (≤1,000 mg/L Total Dissolved Solids) Water discharge by source (m3) All areas with All areas water stress Water discharge by destination Surface water 0 Groundwater 0 Seawater 0 Third-party water (total) 195,077 Third-party water sent for use to other 70 organizations Total water withdrawal 195,147 184,785 *Discharged water is Freshwater (≤1,000 mg/L Total Dissolved Solids) without treatment Lexmark 2019 Corporate Social Responsibility Report csr.lexmark.com 106 Our Approach Our Operations Our Imaging Solutions Our People & Partners Reporting Data Dashboard / Water (continued) Water discharge by facility (m3) 2015 2016 2017 2018 2019 Lexington, KY, U.S. Sanitary Sewer 94,712 98,925 100,116 75,102 45,317 Creek 10,606 10,908 5,826 0 0 Evaporation/Losses 83,103 70,125 71,211 28,441 35,207 Boulder, CO, U.S. Sanitary Sewer 30,681 22,130 37,843 37,465 40,516 Use in product/ 66,223 69,679 60,271 58,479 41,554 evaporation/losses Landfill 389 535 68 Juarez, Mexico Sanitary Sewer 118,001 58,486 95,819 77,400 78,432 Evaporation 54,636 35,440 38,000 29,009 Use in product/losses 53,451 Cebu City, Philippines (LRDC) Sanitary Sewer 23,109 26,337 27,286 22,257 20,452 Kolkata, India Sanitary Sewer 4,930 4,925 4,918 5,027 4,712 Budapest, Hungary Sanitary Sewer 2,976 3,224 3,774 2,539 2,123 Shenzhen, China Sanitary Sewer 1,110 1,036 2,324 3,187 3,527 Other Sanitary Sewer 14 843 Lexmark 2019 Corporate Social Responsibility Report csr.lexmark.com 107 Our Approach Our Operations Our Imaging Solutions Our People & Partners Reporting Data Dashboard / Water (continued) Water consumption (m3) All areas with All areas water stress Total water consumption 105,838 105,838 Facilities with Water Stress Water withdrawal Water Consumption Surface water Third-party water Total Juarez, Mexico 0 107,441 29,009 Boulder, CO, U.S. 0 82,138 41,622 Cebu City, Philippines (LRDC) 0 20,452 0 Lexington, KY, U.S. 25,452 55,072 35,207 Water boundary and accounting methodology Organizational boundary used to calculate and/or estimate water locations; discharge to the local utility is Reported data covers the 2019 calendar withdrawal and water reuse. assumed to be equivalent to withdrawal. year. Lexmark calculates water data for all Prior to 2016 reporting, Lexmark owned and operated sites and includes Water data in Kolkata, India was conservatively reported 100 percent a portion of leased spaces as data is recalculated for 2015-2019 and records discharge of wastewater to the local utility available. The 2019 water data represents have been updated to reflect the new for Juarez and Boulder due to lack of approximately 87 percent of Lexmark’s data. Water data was recalculated at the metered wastewater data. Data was 2019 estimated square footage of Lexmark Boulder location between 2013 and 2016 available in Boulder to allow for the occupied space. as a new calculation methodology allowed delineation of wastewater discharge for a better estimate of actual water details. The reporting of data in Juarez Slight changes may occur in the reporting withdrawal at this location, resulting in began in 2016. boundary for location changes and/or updated data for this individual location operational control. Available data for and total water reported. New meters Meters are in place in Boulder, Lexington these locations will be placed in Other . were also installed at the facility in and Juarez for certain water use and/or Boulder, allowing for greater accuracy in discharge activities. Water risks have been assessed using the reporting. The 2005 Total Water Aqueduct Water Risk Atlas. Withdrawal has not been recalculated and represents the reporting boundary and Data input and calculation methodology calculation methodology used during that Water was sourced from local municipal year. water suppliers, unless reused from another process on site or harvested Wastewater from Lexmark operations is rainwater. primarily discharged to local utility systems (sanitary sewer) for treatment, but is Metered readings and utility bills were not metered at many of our reporting Lexmark 2019 Corporate Social Responsibility Report csr.lexmark.com 108 Our Approach Our Operations Our Imaging Solutions Our People & Partners Reporting Data Dashboard / Waste Total waste generation enterprise level (metric tons) 2015 2016 2017 2018 2019 Non-Hazardous 19,827 16,986 14,052 13,129 11,173 Hazardous 465 616 569 591 268 Total 20,292 17,602 14,621 13,721 11,441 Total waste generation facility level (metric tons) 2015 2016 2017 2018 2019 Lexington, KY, USA 1,228 1,253 1,190 1,030 1,029 Boulder, CO, USA 2,833 3,490 3,059 2,553 2,289 Juarez, Mexico, 4,815 4,507 4,040 3,771 3,070 Manufacturing Juarez, Mexico, 11,345 8,132 6,170 6,177 4,868 LCCP Recycling Plant1 Cebu City, Philippines 70 144 163 189 184 (Research & Dev) Non-hazardous waste generation facility level (metric tons) 2015 2016 2017 2018 2019 Lexington, KY, USA 1,209 1,235 1,177 1,028 1,028 Boulder, CO, USA 2,794 3,438 3,041 2,535 2,264 Juarez, Mexico, 4,425 3,988 3,535 3,249 2,903 Manufacturing Juarez, Mexico, 11,332 8,124 6,163 6,176 4,865 LCCP Recycling Plant1 Cebu City, Philippines 67 125 136 142 112 (Research & Dev) Lexmark 2019 Corporate Social Responsibility Report csr.lexmark.com 109 Our Approach Our Operations Our Imaging Solutions Our People & Partners Reporting Data Dashboard / Waste (continued) Hazardous waste generation facility level (metric tons) 2015 2016 2017 2018 2019 Lexington, KY, USA 19 17 13 2 1.4 Boulder, CO, USA 39 52 17 19 25 Juarez, Mexico, 390 519 505 522 167 Manufacturing Juarez, Mexico, 13 9 6 1 2.4 LCCP Recycling Plant1 Cebu City, Philippines 4 19 27 47 73 (Research & Dev) 1 LCCP Recycling Plant processes empty toner cartridges from customers for recycle or reuse. This data includes facility operations in addition to cartridge processing. Total waste generation enterprise level by disposal method (with LCCP) (metric tons) 2015 2016 2017 2018 2019 Reuse 5,706 1,936 1,747 1,659 1,519 Recycling 11,133 10,549 9,088 8,801 7,467 Composting 10 12 10 8 8 Energy Recovery 847 1,527 810 721 796 Incineration 136 439 300 347 139 Deep well injection Landfill 2,461 3,139 2,665 2,185 1,512 On-site storage Water Treatment Total 20,292 17,602 14,052 13,721 11,441 Lexmark 2019 Corporate Social Responsibility Report csr.lexmark.com 110 Our Approach Our Operations Our Imaging Solutions Our People & Partners Reporting Data Dashboard / Waste (continued) Waste generation for the Lexmark Cartridge Collection Program (LCCP) facility (metric tons) 2015 2016 2017 2018 2019 Reuse 5,475 1,923 1,501 1,441 1,349 Recycling 5,564 5,801 4,381 4,536 3,314 Composting Energy Recovery 6 8 37 80 113 Incineration Deep well injection Landfill 300 400 251 120 91 On-site storage Water Treatment Total 11,345 8,132 6,170 6,177 4,868 Total non-hazardous waste generation enterprise level by disposal method (with LCCP) (metric tons) 2015 2016 2017 2018 2019 Reuse 5,706 1,936 1,747 1,659 1,519 Recycling 11,131 10,543 9,074 8,757 7,400 Composting 10 12 10 8 8 Energy Recovery 715 1,402 731 684 753 Incineration 134 437 299 344 131 Deep well injection Landfill 2,130 2,656 2,191 1,677 1,363 On-site storage Water Treatment Total 19,826 16,986 14,052 13,129 11,173 Lexmark 2019 Corporate Social Responsibility Report csr.lexmark.com 111 Our Approach Our Operations Our Imaging Solutions Our People & Partners Reporting Data Dashboard / Waste (continued) Total hazardous waste generation enterprise level by disposal method (with LCCP) (metric tons) 2015 2016 2017 2018 2019 Reuse Recycling 2 6 15 43 67 Composting Energy Recovery 132 125 79 37 43 Incineration 1 2 1 3 8 Deep well injection Landfill 330 483 475 508 150 On-site storage Water Treatment Total 465 616 569 591 268 2019 Non-hazardous waste generation by type (metric tons) General Recyclables Ink/water Construction Batteries Electronic mix or debris scrap other liquid Lexington, KY, USA 202 591 235 Boulder, CO, USA 190 1403 648 19 0.2 5 Juarez, Mexico, 1448 1346 102 0.02 7 Manufacturing Juarez, Mexico, 540 4284 40 2 LCCP Recycling Plant1 Cebu City, Philippines 82 30 0.02 67 (Research & Dev.) Lexmark 2019 Corporate Social Responsibility Report csr.lexmark.com 112 Our Approach Our Operations Our Imaging Solutions Our People & Partners Reporting Data Dashboard / Waste (continued) 2019 Hazardous waste generation by type (metric tons) Ignitables/ Metals Corrosive Mercury/ Lamps Other solvents Lexington, KY, USA 0.8 0.6 Boulder, CO, USA 13 0.6 8.6 0.4 3 Juarez, Mexico, 18 1 0.3 147 Manufacturing Juarez, Mexico, 2 0.2 LCCP Recycling Plant1 Cebu City, Philippines 5 0.2 0.2 0.9 (Research & Dev.) Hazardous waste (HW) transported, imported, exported or treated under the terms of Basel Convention Annex I, II, III and VIII (Metric tons) HW Transported HW Imported HW Exported HW Treated 2017 2018 2019 2017 2018 2019 2017 2018 2019 2017 2018 2019 Lexington, KY, USA 13 2 1 13 2 1 Boulder, CO, USA 17 18 25 17 18 25 Juarez, Mexico, 505 522 167 505 522 167 Manufacturing Juarez, Mexico, 6 1 2 6 1 2 LCCP Recycling Plant1 Cebu City, Philippines 12 19 73 12 19 73 (Research & Dev.) Hazardous waste shipped internationally (%) 2017 2018 2019 Lexington, KY, USA Boulder, CO, USA Juarez, Mexico, Manufacturing Juarez, Mexico, LCCP Recycling Plant1 Cebu City, Philippines (Research & Dev.) Waste data is from 100% of Lexmark’s owned development and manufacturing sites based on square feet. Lexmark 2019 Corporate Social Responsibility Report csr.lexmark.com 113 Our Approach Our Operations Our Imaging Solutions Our People & Partners Reporting Data Dashboard / Waste (continued) Total electronics waste recycling (metric tons) 2019 2019 Voluntary Regulated USA 1849 533 Canada 266 EU 1080 Mexico 18 India 16 Asia Pacific 238 Lexmark 2019 Corporate Social Responsibility Report csr.lexmark.com 114 Our Approach Our Operations Our Imaging Solutions Our People & Partners Reporting Data Dashboard / Employees 2019 Global Workforce Employees % Women New Hires Asia Pacific 2,300 50% 315 Europe, Middle East, Africa 1,045 41% 142 Latin America 2,766 46% 1,021 North America 2,088 24% 185 Total Employees 8,199 41% 1,663 By Job level Employees % Women Senior Vice President 9 33% Vice President 22 9% Director 105 23% Senior Manager 87 31% Manager 709 37% Individual Contributor 7,267 42% Total 8,199 41% By Employment type Employees % Women Full Time 8,144 41% Part time 55 87% Total 8,199 41% Temporary Employees 66 50% Contingent Workers 2,128 Gender not reported US Minorities Workplace Management New Hires 17% 24% 27% Worldwide by Age Workplace 30 and under 22% 31-50 67% 51 and over 17% Lexmark’s worldwide minimum age is 18. Lexmark 2019 Corporate Social Responsibility Report csr.lexmark.com 115 Our Approach Our Operations Our Imaging Solutions Our People & Partners Reporting Data Dashboard / Employees (continued) 2019 Continuing Training & Education Employee Category Number of Employees Average Training Hours Senior Vice President 9 21 Vice President 22 21 Director 105 21 Senior Manager 87 35 Manager 709 35 Individual Contributor 7,257 35 The average number of hours for training is 34.9 for women, 34.7 for men. Averages based on the corporate-level systems that capture employee development activities and do not include formal education supported by Lexmark. 2019 Injury Rate, Ill Health, Lost Work Day Rate, Absentee Rate and Work Related Fatalities by Region Lost Work Day Work Related Lexmark Location Injury Rate Ill Health Absentee Rate Rate Fatalities % % % % % Total Women Total Women Total Women Total Women Total Women Boulder, Colorado 3.60 33% 1.20 50% 1.20 0% 0 n/a Not Reported Budapest, Hungary 0 0% 0 0% 0 0% 0 n/a Not Reported Cebu, Philippines 0.07 0% 0 0% 0 0% 0 n/a Not Reported China 0 0% 0 0% 0 0% 0 n/a Not Reported Juarez, Mexico 0.37 38% 0.05 100% 17.38 54% 0 n/a Not Reported Lexington/U.S. sales 0.18 33% 0.06 0% 0 0% 0 n/a Not Reported & home offices Total 0.30 33.33% 0.07 50% 6.29 53.93% 0 n/a Not Reported *Injury/illness and lost work days assessed using OSHA injury and illness recordkeeping and reporting requirements. Lexmark 2019 Corporate Social Responsibility Report csr.lexmark.com 116
