UNGC 2020 Communication on Progress to the United Nations Global Compact January 2020 Changing the perspective on risk maplecroft.com Verisk Maplecroft | UNGC 2020 Communication On Progress Contents Verisk Maplecroft contributes to the following through the implementation of the four pillars 4 6 8Community Principle 1: 1 Businesses should support and respect the protection of internationally proclaimed human rights Environment Principle 7: 7 Businesses should support a precautionary approach to environmental challenges Statement of Support Our approach to UNGC Principles & People sustainability Verisk Maplecroft Principle 1: 1 Businesses should support and respect 9 11 15 the protection of internationally proclaimed human rights Principle 3: 3 Businesses should uphold the freedom of association and the effective recognition of the right to collective bargaining Principle 5: 5 The effective abolition of child labour Principle 10: 10 Businesses should work against corruption in all its forms, including extortion and bribery Products Sustainable Development Goals & Community Verisk Maplecroft Engagement Environment Principle 1: 1 Businesses should support and respect the protection of internationally proclaimed 20 26 324 human rights Principle 4: The elimination of all forms of forced and compulsory labour Principle 6: 6 The elimination of discrimination in respect of employment and occupation Principle 9: 9 Encourage the development and diffusion of environmentally friendly technologies VM Support for Women’s Our People Our Products and Sevices Empowerment Principle 2 © Verisk Maplecroft 2020 | maplecroft.com Verisk Maplecroft | UNGC 2020 Communication On Progress About Verisk Maplecroft For over 10 years, we have pioneered the quantification of risk. Our journey has seen us become part of the world’s leading data analytics organisation and progress from a team of talented academics based in the west of England to a global research house at the forefront of data modelling, risk analysis and forecasting. We have a unique portfolio of global risk analytics, expert insight and user-centric platforms. These resources enable us to deliver a holistic evaluation of the key strategic, operational and reputational risks facing multinational organisations, their suppliers and the raw materials they source for any location worldwide. Our interconnected approach to risk provides businesses with unparalleled insight into country, sector, corporate and supplier-level exposure to the full spectrum of political, economic, human rights and environmental issues. We help businesses make better, risk-adjusted decisions that improve effectiveness and the commercial performance, resilience and sustainability of a business. Global issues need a global perspective. That’s why we’ve expanded our presence across the world. Bath remains a key hub of operations for us, but we now have offices in New York, London, Singapore, Calgary, Mexico City, Buenos Aires and beyond. Company name Email Number of employees Verisk Maplecroft info@maplecroft.com 120 employees Address Web address Sector 1 Henry Street www.maplecroft.com Professional, scientific and technical Bath services BA1 1JS UK Submission date Contact name 25 January 2020 Rebecca Hall Telephone Membership date Contact position +44 (0) 1225 420 000 11 February 2005 Managing Consultant © Verisk Maplecroft 2020 | maplecroft.com 3 Verisk Maplecroft | UNGC 2020 Communication On Progress Statement of Support Verisk Maplecroft is deeply committed to our employees, our clients, our community and the environment. Our pledge to be stewards of community and the environment by investing in ethical and sustainable practices is evidenced by the activities highlighted in this report. We had a range of investments in 2019 that advanced our commitment to the principles outlined in the UN Global Compact. These range from new products and offerings, expanded and improved policies and investment in our team. Below are 4 key highlights of our overall program ■ Helping Our Clients Move “Beyond Compliance” – An important focus Sondra Scott, for 2019 has been working with our clients to support their efforts to President, move their environmental, social and governance policies beyond what Verisk Maplecroft is required to comply to the laws where they operate. We have provided deep dive analysis and support on social impact of their operations and help them define strategies which enhance their social license to operate. ■ Direct Community Engagement and Giving – Throughout the year our employees across the globe participated in community building using their time and skills. We set aside a day for these activities and encourage everyone to participate. We also foster a culture of giving and through our parent organization Verisk Analytics have a matching program. ■ Increased Thought Leadership on ESG issues We encourage our team to produce content, participate in social media and speak at events in order to raise awareness about critical ESG issues across the globe. To support these efforts, we invested in improvements and expansion of our environmental and human rights indices. ■ Carbon Neutrality For the second year running, we will have achieved Carbon neutrality through a combination of less or smarter travel and investment in virtual technologies. In 2019, we continued with our policy of providing a broad range of stakeholders with our insights through the public domain in order to raise awareness of the key social, environmental and governance risks found across the world. We do this via our significant and growing presence in international media, through free thought leadership pieces on our public website and the attendance of conferences and public speaking engagements. 4 © Verisk Maplecroft 2020 | maplecroft.com Verisk Maplecroft | UNGC 2020 Communication On Progress There are a variety of other ways in which we support the principles of the United Nations Global Compact, including our collaboration with UNICEF on the development of the Children’s Rights and Business Atlas, the updating and expansion of the publicly available Girl Stats platform, with generous funding from our parent organisation Verisk Analytics. Beyond our external activities we support the principles through adherence to our own corporate values which reflect Verisk Analytics’ comprehensive nine-point value framework. The first two values are Respect for the Individual and Integrity; both speak directly to the compact principles. We are pleased to submit this report which details our 2019 activities in support of the aims and interests of the United Nations Global Compact. Our mission is to not only actively adhere to the principles but to innovate so that our employees, clients and communities can benefit from our expertise and efforts. We are privileged to have the backing of our parent company Verisk Analytics which supports us in this effort. Sondra Scott President Verisk Maplecroft © Verisk Maplecroft 2020 | maplecroft.com 5 Verisk Maplecroft | UNGC 2020 Communication On Progress Our Approach to Sustainability “Rebecca Hall CSR Lead and Managing Consultant, Human Rights, London. We are a business who’s purpose is to manage and mitigate risks, and to help business do the right thing. We are committed to being a responsible, ethical and sustainable business and to use our products and services to encourage clients to manage their risks responsibly. We are committed to conducting business in an ethical and responsible manner. We have strong beliefs on ethical working practices for our employees, including gender and racial equality, flexible working for families, and giving back to local communities. These beliefs are backed up by company policies to ensure that we not only promote ethical business, but that we also practise it. In 2019, we continued to develop and strengthen our policies, commitments and actions to ensure we live up to not only our own values, but also the ten principles of the United Nations Global Compact. We incorporate the Ten UNGC Principles into our business strategies, policies, and procedures. We adopt Verisk’s corporate values. These values represent the standard to which we hold ourselves both in our dealings internally, and when working externally with clients and in our local communities. The Verisk Way—to serve, add value, and innovate is our road map to achieve this vision. 6 © Verisk Maplecroft 2020 | maplecroft.com Verisk Maplecroft | UNGC 2020 Communication On Progress Our approach to sustainability Figure 1: Verisk corporate values Respect for the Individual Integrity Passion Persistence Confidence / Humility Excellence Teamwork Source: Verisk Analytics Our employee handbook defines our commitments and expectations in relation to sustainability and corporate citizenship. This handbook was revised in 2017 to include more robust and comprehensive policies for staff. These commitments and expectations are organised around four pillars: ■ Human rights ■ Environment ■ Labour standards ■ Transparency and disclosure Our commitment to CSR Our CSR strategy incorporates four key pillars: Community, Environment, People and Products. Within each of these four pillars we outline the actions we take to support local community initiatives, reduce our impact on the environment, support the development and wellbeing of our staff and deliver products that support responsible business practices. Much of this is done through close engagement with the various working groups and steering committees across the Verisk family. This Communications on Progress report will further demonstrate our commitment to the ten principles of the United Nations Global Compact through each of our four CSR pillars. Figure 2: The 4 pillars of Maplecroft CSR Community Environment Our People Our Products Source: Verisk Analytics 2020 © Verisk Maplecroft 2020 | maplecroft.com 7 Verisk Maplecroft | UNGC 2020 Communication On Progress Our approach to sustainability UNGC Principles & Verisk Maplecroft Verisk Maplecroft contributes to the following United Nations Global Compact Principles through the implementation of the four pillars of our CSR strategy. Community Principle 1: Principle 8: 1 Businesses should support and respect 8 Undertake initiatives to promote greater the protection of internationally proclaimed environmental responsibility human rights Environment Principle 7: Principle 8: 7 Businesses should support a precautionary 8 Undertake initiatives to promote greater approach to environmental challenges environmental responsibility People Principle 1: Principle 2: 1 Businesses should support and respect 2 Make sure that they are not the protection of internationally proclaimed complicit in human rights abuses. human rights Principle 3: Principle 4: 3 Businesses should uphold the freedom of 4 The elimination of all forms of forced and association and the effective recognition of compulsory labour the right to collective bargaining Principle 5: Principle 6: 5 The effective abolition of child labour 6 The elimination of discrimination in respect of employment and occupation Principle 10: 10 Businesses should work against corruption in all its forms, including extortion and bribery Products Principle 1: Principle 2: 1 Businesses should support and respect 2 Make sure that they are not the protection of internationally proclaimed complicit in human rights abuses human rights Principle 4: Principle 5: 4 The elimination of all forms of forced and 5 The effective abolition of child labour compulsory labour Principle 6: Principle 7: 6 The elimination of discrimination in 7 Businesses should support a precautionary respect of employment and occupation approach to environmental challenges Principle 9: Principle 10: 9 Encourage the development and diffusion of 10 Businesses should work against corruption in environmentally friendly technologies all its forms, including extortion and bribery 8 © Verisk Maplecroft 2020 | maplecroft.com Verisk Maplecroft | UNGC 2020 Communication On Progress Our approach to sustainability Sustainable Development Goals & Verisk Maplecroft Verisk Maplecroft contributes to the following Sustainable Development Goals through the implementation of the four pillars of our CSR strategy. Community Environment People Products © Verisk Maplecroft 2020 | maplecroft.com 9 Verisk Maplecroft | UNGC 2020 Communication On Progress Our approach to sustainability Community Engagement 10 © Verisk Maplecroft 2020 | maplecroft.com Verisk Maplecroft | UNGC 2020 Communication On Progress 1 Community engagement Photo: Tree planting, Mexico City “ Lyn Prentice Office Manager and Wellness Champion, Bath. Community engagement is at the heart of our CSR strategy. Every year, we organise a variety of events and initiatives that enable colleagues to support the organisations that make a real difference in our local communities. Our commitment to the community supports the following: supports the following UNGC Principles supports the following SDGs Principle 1 Principle 8 Goal 2 Goal 5 Goal 10 Goal 15 Our commitment We are committed to being a community-friendly business, playing an active and supportive role in the areas in which we operate. We encourage our staff members to engage with local organisations and institutions, through volunteer work, fundraising and knowledge sharing. This commitment is embedded in our CSR strategy which is made up of four pillars, including Community, Environment, People and Products. Community engagement is also embedded in our corporate culture through our parent company, Verisk Analytics, which strongly encourages all business units to take an active role in local communities. Verisk Analytics runs an annual Community Engagement Week; a week-long event promoting local volunteer opportunities for all employees. During Community Engagement Week, each member of staff is entitled to a paid day off to donate their time to a local cause. © Verisk Maplecroft 2020 | maplecroft.com 11 1 Verisk Maplecroft | UNGC 2020 Communication On Progress Community Engagement In 2019, staff in the London, Bath, Singapore, New London and Bath (UK): For its fifth year, the WindsorYork and Mexico City offices took part in volunteering Bath ride for Wood Mackenzie and Maplecroft activities to benefit their local communities, and many staff has provided a great opportunity for people to employees undertook voluntary roles in their spare time. escape the office, meet new faces and get a good amount of exercise in the process. On Friday 21st As part of an overarching commitment to supporting June, employees cycled from Windsor and finish at local communities, our parent company Verisk Maplecroft’s office in Bath, a ride of 100 miles. This Analytics continues to support thousands of causes year the ride supported Mind, a leading mental health through its Matching Gifts Programme. By matching charity in England and Wales, and the donations the donations made by both active and retired helped to provide support to the 1 in 4 people who employees and directors, as well as their spouses, experience mental distress in their lifetimes. The team Verisk enables staff to double their contributions to raised £801.44. charitable organisations. This is subject to a limit of £3,500 per employee and spouse, and £1,750 per retired employee and spouse. Through Verisk Analytics, Maplecroft also supports charities with an annual donation kindly allocated by our parent company. In 2019 employees voted for three charities to split the donation amount and receive a donation of $2,500 each. This year the charities chosen were: Great Ormond Street Hospital Children’s Charity; Mind – The Mental Health Charity; and Cancer Research UK. Our actions in 2019 Volunteering in the local community In 2019, Verisk Maplecroft undertook a range of volunteering activities throughout the world tackling a range of issues: Mexico City (Mexico): In August, 9 employees from Photo: Verisk Singapore office at soup kitchen the Mexico City office spent the day with Mexican foundation “ProBosque” in northern Mexico City, Singapore (Singapore): In November 2019, 4 where they collaborated with public officials and employees from the Singapore office spent a day other volunteers to plant several trees per person. volunteering at Willing Hearts soup kitchen, helping Monitoring of the growth of said trees is carried out by provide food to vulnerable and homeless persons. the foundation after the planting and aims to improve Miha Hribernik, Head of Asia at Verisk Maplecroft, the soil quality of the area as well as contribute to continues to volunteer there in his spare time. overall reforestation. In addition, staff across our entire network of offices, New York (United States): 8 volunteers from the New including London and Singapore, took part a number York office returned to the Holy Apostles Soup Kitchen of fundraising activities. For example, bake sales were where they served the community hot and cold meals. held alongside other fundraising initiatives in support During the day on the 3rd of October, the team served of a number of charities, including Samaritans in the 696 hot meals and bagged 285 packed lunches for UK. service users to take away. 12 © Verisk Maplecroft 2020 | maplecroft.com Verisk Maplecroft | UNGC 2020 Communication On Progress Community Engagement 1 “ James Allan Global Head of Consulting For the past three years I have chaired the data strategy board for TISCreport, the World’s largest open data platform committed to ending corruption, supply chain labour abuses and modern slavery. Using data science techniques, the main function of the organisation is to aggregate corporate modern slavery statements within a central repository, thereby providing transparency related to compliance and performance. Through my involvement with the organisation I’ve learned a lot about using influence and leveraging unique skills and assets, with very limited time and financial resource, to achieve strategic goals that are ultimately for the greater public good. Donating to worthy causes In 2019, Verisk Maplecroft continued to support charitable ventures through offering pro-bono services to the UK registered charity Girl Stats – a resource that aims to improve business due diligence and respect for girls rights around the world. Employee time was allocated to work pro-bono for the charity, including supporting with social media and providing data and indices for the site. Over the course of the year, Verisk Maplecroft staff raised over £2,000 for causes including: ■ Royal Trinity Hospice Photo: New York Team at soup kitchen ■ FoodCycle ■ Samaritans Future goals ■ Cancer Research UK ■ Increased staff volunteering during Community Engagement week, particularly by encouraging staff ■ Julian House in our global offices outside Bath and London to get The money was raised through a variety of initiatives involved such as bake sales and calls for donations. ■ Continued support for employees to engage in volunteering outside of work, including being charity trustees. ■ Empowering our staff to suggest voluntary activities and fundraising events in our offices and with our colleagues and sister companies. © Verisk Maplecroft 2020 | maplecroft.com 13 1 Verisk Maplecroft | UNGC 2020 Communication On Progress Community Engagement Environment 14 © Verisk Maplecroft 2020 | maplecroft.com Verisk Maplecroft | UNGC 2020 Communication On Progress 2 Environment Photo: istock “ Our commitment We are committed to taking a precautionary approach with respect to environmental challenges and to undertaking environmental initiatives that promote environmental responsibility. Our commitment to the environment is detailed in both our employee Dr Richard Hewston Head of Strategy, Environment and Climate Change handbook and CSR strategy, and requires us to work towards improving our environmental performance, We supported Verisk in its 2019 CDP submission, preventing pollution wherever possible and complying helping it understand the relevance of climate with all applicable laws, regulations and industry change in different business processes and standards. proactively demonstrate its ability to manage Our parent company, Verisk Analytics, has also climate risk to a range of stakeholders. committed to reducing energy and resource consumption in their products and operations, Our actions in 2019 optimising its environmental footprint and improving waste management and energy efficiency in business Maintaining a sustainable procurement policy operations. As a part of the wider Verisk family, Verisk We continue to implement a sustainable procurement Maplecroft also commits to this. policy for food, catering and cleaning products used in In addition, in the environmental pillar of Verisk our Bath office. We aim to purchase products with the Maplecroft’s CSR Strategy we commit to: highest ethical and environment standards possible, such as those of organic origin (as defined under UK ■ Disclosing and reducing our greenhouse emissions and EU law). ■ Recycling wherever possible ■ Procuring energy efficient and sustainable equipment, food and drink and cleaning products © Verisk Maplecroft 2020 | maplecroft.com 15 2 Verisk Maplecroft | UNGC 2020 Communication On Progress Environment Food and drink items purchased for staff carry at least The Verisk Maplecroft Cambridge House office in one of the following certifications: Bath is classified as having a Category D Energy Performance Asset Rating; with a score of 97/150 ■ Organic; certified by the Soil Association, EcoCert or (lower scores indicate better energy efficiency). While the Organic Food Federation the score is above what would be expected if the ■ Fairtrade Foundation; compliant with fair trade building was new, the score is below the benchmark standards relating to supply-chain transparency and for existing building stock of this type (109). The equitable pricing for producers annual building emission rate is 99.02kg of CO2 per ■ Rainforest Alliance; compliant with Sustainable square meter. Agriculture Network standards for conservation, In 2017, we replaced all our fluorescent-tube lighting social wellbeing and sustainable farm management at our Bath office with 40-watt LED panels. The replacement panels are around 50% more energy efficient than the previous light fittings and are more durable, typically having a life span of 50,000 hours. 2018 was the first complete calendar year in which these lights were used. In 2019, the Verisk Maplecroft Bath office used 65,349 kilowatt hours of electricity. Based on the UK As a part of our precautionary approach, we energy generation mix, this is estimated to represent exclusively source everyday products for our Bath 23 tonnes CO2e (carbon dioxide equivalent) of office that do not contain palm oil due to the high greenhouse gas emissions. This represents a 49% risks of environmental degradation and human rights reduction in electricity usage compared to the same violations associated with the commodity. We also period in 2015, when we occupied two floors at source cleaning products with a low environmental Cambridge House, and a 18.6% reduction compared impact, as well as recycled paper cleaning products. to the same period in 2018. This indicates continued efficiency savings and downsizing (see Figure 4: Furthering our efforts to recycle waste Annual electricity consumption). Throughout 2019, we continued to provide recycling Discounting seasonal fluctuations in energy demand, facilities for our staff for domestic plastic, cardboard the long-term trend for reducing energy consumption and metal packaging. indicates a continued fall in energy consumption kWh Improving our energy and resource efficiency per quarter in the period January 2015 to December 2019 (see Figure 3: Quarterly electricity consumption). Following a decrease in 2016 and 2018, staff numbers at our Bath office are now stable at around 30 people. A move towards greater flexibility has seen a rise in homeworking and remote working. Given this situation, we continued to see a fall in energy and resource consumption at our Bath office over the past twelve months. We can use the following metrics to measure future performance. 16 © Verisk Maplecroft 2020 | maplecroft.com Verisk Maplecroft | UNGC 2020 Communication On Progress Environment 2 Figure 3: Quarterly electricity consumption 45000 40000 35000 Kilowatt Hours (kWh) 30000 25000 20000 15000 10000 5000 0 Q1 Q2 Q3 Q4 Q1 Q2 Q3 Q4 Q1 Q3 Q2 Q4 Q1 Q2 Q3 Q4 Q1 Q2 Q3 Q4* 2015 2016 2017 2018 2019 * December 2019 energy usage is an estimated figure Source: Verisk Maplecroft 2019 Verisk Analytics: Carbon-neutral for the second year running In 2019, Verisk Analytics, completed its fourth inventory of greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions across all business units for the year 2018. Verisk Analytics is reporting to CDP (formally the Carbon Disclosure Project), an international not-for-profit organisation that administers a global disclosure system representing the most comprehensive collection of self-reported environmental data in existence. Emissions from the Verisk family of companies totalled 29,561 tonnes of carbon dioxide equivalent (CO2e) in 2018. As part of this process, Verisk Maplecroft submitted the emissions associated with energy purchased for Cambridge House and emissions from air travel. The figure is an 23% increase on emissions in 2015, our baseline year reflecting growth of the Verisk family of businesses. Verisk’s 2018 emissions have been balanced 100% by our purchase of renewable energy certificates (REC) and carbon offsets. RECs are tradable, nontangible energy commodities evidencing that 1 megawatt of electricity has been generated and delivered to the electricity grid from a renewable source. Verisk purchased RECs representing more than 34,000 megawatts of electricity during 2018, supporting renewable energy projects—wind, hydro, or biomass—in almost every country or region where we have offices. We also expect to continue using renewable energy certificates and carbon offsets to help balance Verisk’s emissions when we conduct our 2019 inventory. © Verisk Maplecroft 2020 | maplecroft.com 17 2 Verisk Maplecroft | UNGC 2020 Communication On Progress Environment Figure 4: Annual electricity consumption (kWh) Reducing travel to cut carbon emissions Due to the nature of our business, international travel for sales and consulting staff is unavoidable. However, the use of teleconferencing facilities is encouraged wherever possible to avoid unnecessary travel. In addition, we have expanded our presence in region in our New York, Singapore and Mexico City offices. This will reduce the need for long-haul air travel. In line with our commitment to monitor emissions 2015 2016 2017 2018 2019 from air travel, in 2019, Verisk Maplecroft employees flew a total of 759,422 miles, representing 140.9 tonnes CO2e of greenhouse gas emissions. This represents a 37% reduction from the same period in 2018. We will continue to use teleconferencing and remote presentation technologies as our primary means for internal and external meetings. During the past year we have continued to offer the cycle-to-work scheme to our UK-based employees. This is a government initiative that provides users with a financial incentive to purchase a bicycle and Source: Verisk Maplecroft 2019 use it to cycle to and from work. Through this scheme, the government hopes to reduce pollution and improve health by encouraging cycling as a means of commuting. Future goals In 2020, we are intending to relocate our Bath Office to a smaller facility. During the move we will be seeking to source 100% renewable energy at the new site and ensure comprehensive recycling facilities are available. We are also aiming to reduce air travel by staff where possible and we will continue to monitor and reduce our electricity consumption. 18 © Verisk Maplecroft 2020 | maplecroft.com Verisk Maplecroft | UNGC 2020 Communication On Progress Our people © Verisk Maplecroft 2020 | maplecroft.com 19 Verisk Maplecroft | UNGC 2020 Communication On Progress 3 Our People Photo: CNBC, Daragh McDowell Our people strategy and activities support the following UNGC Principles and Sustainable Development Goals: UNGC Principles Sustainable Development Goals Principle 1 Principle 2 Goal 3 Goal 5 Principle 3 Principle 4 Goal 8 Goal 10 Principle 5 Principle 6 Principle 10 Our commitment We have developed a culture that seeks to support, respect and draw attention to human rights among our employees and customers. When our people thrive, our business thrives. We are committed to treating all individuals fairly and with respect. This includes promoting equality and diversity, as well an inclusive and supportive environment for our staff. Here are example statistics showing the structure of the Verisk Maplecroft workforce Figure 5: Employees by band 60 50 Number of employees 40 30 20 10 0 Senior (Exec C) Mid Level (D-E) Professional (F-H) Source: Verisk Maplecroft 20 © Verisk Maplecroft 2020 | maplecroft.com Verisk Maplecroft | UNGC 2020 Communication On Progress Our People 3 Figure 6: Breakdown by band and gender Senior Mid Level Professional (Exec, A & B bands) (C, D & E bands) (F & G bands) 4 22 16 11 32 18 = Female = Male Source: Verisk Maplecroft 2020 Our employee handbook confirms our commitments to the United Nations Global Compact principles of human rights, labour rights and anti-corruption, as well as to our corporate values of integrity and respect for the individual. Our handbook reaffirms this through our commitment to: ■ Respecting human rights and helping our customers do the same through the provision of relevant human rights products and services ■ Ensuring that all our employees have the right to freely join associations of their own choice (for the purposes of rule formation, administration and the election of representatives); and ■ Ensuring that all our employees have the right to undertake collective bargaining through an established trade union ■ Fighting all forms of forced and compulsory labour and to the effective and responsible abolition of child labour ■ Ensuring that no individual suffers discrimination, directly or indirectly, on the grounds of sex, (including pregnancy), marital status, religion or belief, race, nationality, ethnic or national origin, sexual orientation, gender reassignment, age, disability or otherwise; and to providing a working environment free from harassment and intimidation ■ Enforcing a zero tolerance policy for corruption in all our operations, within our field of influence and through our work with our customers. This is outlined in our anti-bribery and corruption policy, which was updated in 2016 © Verisk Maplecroft 2020 | maplecroft.com 21 3 Verisk Maplecroft | UNGC 2020 Communication On Progress Our People Supporting employee wellbeing through our CSR Continued work of the Ethnicity Working Group and strategy Gender Working Group The People pillar of our CSR strategy builds on The Verisk Maplecroft and Wood Mackenzie Ethnicity our commitments to human rights and labour Working Group (EWG) aims to increase the overall rights and aims to realise these through targeted percentage of ethnic and racial minority employees actions. The People pillar is closely aligned with within Wood Mackenzie and Verisk Maplecroft, and the Thrive programme run by our sister company, specifically in line management and subject matter Wood Mackenzie, and is owned and driven by our expert roles. It also aims to address the ethnic and employees. This is a comprehensive programme racial gap between our workforce and the regions in which incorporates gender and ethnic diversity, which we work and conduct business. wellness and community engagement. Like Thrive, The Gender Working Group (GWG) aims to increase our People pillar includes a range of programmes the female talent pipeline and opportunities for and actions, which can be divided into three main women to develop and progress within Wood categories: Diversity and Inclusion, Wellness and Mackenzie and Verisk Maplecroft, and to address the Community Engagement. gender balance for the benefit of the individuals and the organisation. In 2019, our Gender Working Group Figure 7: Our People pillar structure undertook a number of actions, which contribute towards Principle 6 of the United Nations Global Compact. Wellness “ Inclusion, Diversity and Belonging Source: Verisk Maplecroft 2019 Ben Sempala-Ntege Chair, Ethnicity Working Group, Bath, UK Diversity continues to be a main focus at Verisk Our actions in 2019 Maplecroft as evidenced by the commitment of the senior leadership team to support and Focus on gender equality promote the Gender and Ethnicity Working groups in a range of internal and external Building on commitments made in 2018 and facing activities. Greater connections with our following the hiring and promotion policy established wider corporate structure has allowed us space in 2017, we continued to encourage gender equality to explore inclusion issues. throughout the company. Almost 50/50 gender balance was achieved in the senior band (Exec – C) in 2019. Following some organisational changes this balance has now slipped a little, but plans are in place to address this going forwards. 22 © Verisk Maplecroft 2020 | maplecroft.com Verisk Maplecroft | UNGC 2020 Communication On Progress Our People 3 Photo: Gay Pride Parade, London Some of the 2019 highlights from our Diversity & Inclusion programme run by our sister company, Wood Mackenzie, are listed below: ■ Maplecroft employees supported the LGBT+ network globally with phenomenal levels of buy-in and ongoing support across the business, including employees joining Pride Parades around the world in support of LGBTQ+ rights ■ The Gender Working Group launched the Parental Leave Playbook and Lactation Facility policy, helping new parents make a smoother transition into parenthood ■ The Ethnicity Working Group, in partnership with Human Resources, took great strides to raise our company profile in the broader community, expanding our reach and ensuring we continue to attract the very best talent © Verisk Maplecroft 2020 | maplecroft.com 23 3 Verisk Maplecroft | UNGC 2020 Communication On Progress Our People Prioritising employee wellbeing Verisk Maplecroft promotes the well-being of employees and supports a healthy lifestyle – in terms of both physical and mental health. In 2020 a number of activities were undertaken to promote health and well being for employees, including: ■ Participating in the Verisk Group Walking Challenge, where employees are encouraged to track their steps each day and hit targets to win prizes and awards ■ Taking part in wellness activities in each office. The London office had an afternoon walk through London and visited an Art exhibition at the Royal Academy of Art, funded by the wellness budget to ensure inclusivity for all employees who wished to go ■ Massages and acupuncture have been offered to staff in the UK offices on a regular basis, as laid out in the 2019 plans. This allows employees a short and relaxing break during the working day Future goals Photo: Wellness Day, London Diversity & Inclusion ■ Provide Line manager support, training and In 2020, our diversity goals will include: materials on mental health and flexible working ■ Addressing the gender imbalance at senior level in ■ Provide mental health first aid training to employees, our organisation and highlight the need for mental health awareness ■ Continuing to encourage our employees to in the workplace participate in diversity groups and events, such as ■ Provide massage and/or reflexology sessions every cultural food exchanges 6 weeks ■ Encourage and facilitate our employees to attend ■ Carry out a survey to find out what wellness public diversity events, such as partnering with our workshops staff would like to attend sister company Wood Mackenzie to secure places marching in global pride events ■ Continue to include comprehensive health checks and a £200 wellness allowance per person per year Wellness in our health plan for 2020 In 2020, our wellness programme will focus on the ■ Advocate the wellness and alternative therapies following goals: available under employee health insurance 24 © Verisk Maplecroft 2020 | maplecroft.com Verisk Maplecroft | UNGC 2020 Communication On Progress Our Products 4 Our Products and Services © Verisk Maplecroft 2020 | maplecroft.com 25 Verisk Maplecroft | UNGC 2020 Communication On Progress 4 Our Products and Services Photo: www.maplecroft.com Our products and services support the following UNGC Principles and Goals: UNGC Principles Sustainable Development Goals Principle 1 Principle 2 Goal 5 Goal 12 Principle 3 Principle 4 Goal 13 Goal 16 Principle 5 Principle 6 Principle 7 Principle 8 Principle 9 Principle 10 “ Our commitment We are committed to developing and delivering products and services that help our clients manage a range of risks and implement responsible and sustainable business solutions. Ryan Aherin Our suite of human rights, environment, political and Commodities Content Lead, Bath. economic indices enables companies to carry out A majority of businesses with multinational robust due diligence and risk assessments, identify supply chains struggle to identify their potential and actual impacts across 198 countries and exposure to ESG issues associated with the to implement measures to improve their sustainability hundreds of raw materials present in their performance. Our research team produces in-depth products. By quantifying 20 commodityspecific risk issues, Verisk Maplecroft’s country risk reports covering governance, political, Commodity Risk Service allows users to human rights, environmental and security issues, as pinpoint those which have the most potential well as providing daily updates through our online portal to expose them to ESG risks in their supply on key events and trends within focus countries. chains. 26 © Verisk Maplecroft 2020 | maplecroft.com Verisk Maplecroft | UNGC 2020 Communication On Progress Our Products 4 As part of our bespoke advisory offering, our consultancy team, supported by our researchers, helps companies to articulate their corporate commitments. We do this through the development Country of policies and codes of conduct. Our consultants and researchers also work with clients to provide: Risk ■ Risk and impact assessments Solutions ■ Supply chain analysis Expectations on how companies do business are rapidly evolving. Your handling of challenges ranging from global trade tensions and investor ESG questions, to local, asset-level ■ Stakeholder engagement community concerns has never been more critical to your bottom-line. It’s no longer enough to just respond to events. Now more than ever, seeing the signals early is key. How can we help you? ■ Due diligence For almost 20 years we have helped leading organisations effectively manage the challenges posed by increasingly uncertain and volatile operating environments. ■ Benchmarking and materiality assessments Our unbiased, independent experts have a deep understanding of interconnected regional and country risks, shifting stakeholder expectations, and industry specific Ecuador businessrisk assessment | May 2019 contexts. Together with our proprietary data and trusted ■ Sustainability reporting advisory services, we can help you: ■ Management systems support Build a complete 360° view Develop a deep Give senior executives Ecuador risk assessment of country risk exposure understanding of local confidence that your for your business contexts and monitor company’s future growth critical business assets is being safeguarded Our actions in 2019 Final Report 01.20 Verisk Analytics Official Public Information © Verisk Maplecroft 2020 | maplecroft.com Ongoing product and service delivery May 2019 Since our last Communication on Progress, we have continued to offer the following products and services to support responsible business practices: Country Monitoring Service Through our Country Monitoring service, we analyse the specific risks affecting companies operating in or sourcing from a particular country. Our expert analysts monitor 198 countries, such as Brazil, China and South Africa, to identify long-term emerging risks Human Changing the perspective on risk maplecroft.com Rights and quickly analyse unfolding events that affect our clients and their workers/supply chains. Our analysts Outlook produce regular written briefings via our online portal on a number of issues including governance, human rights, environmental issues and security. Our in-depth Country Risk Profiles also contain specific sections 2019 on these themes, allowing clients to gain deep understanding of the key issues within a particular country. Changing the perspective on risk maplecroft.com Photo: Various reports © Verisk Maplecroft 2020 | maplecroft.com 27 4 Verisk Maplecroft | UNGC 2020 Communication On Progress Our Products “ Risk datasets As highlighted in the table below, our risk datasets cover all 10 of the UNGC Principles. The data offering enables clients to assess a range of human rights, economic, environmental and political risks in 198 Sam Haynes countries. Over the last twelve months, we have Head of Indices, Bath. continued to increase clients’ awareness of issues such as civil and political rights, labour rights, climate Our 165+ indices help companies screen their change, natural hazards and corruption through the supplier base or their own assets for risks related to responsible sourcing and business delivery of our datasets and individual risk indices. disruption. The breadth and depth of our Our data goes beyond country risk and assesses datasets enable businesses to assess risks at the country, subnational, industry, and environmental, social, and governance risks commodity level. By better understanding their associated with over 162 commodities and 79 risk profile, they can make informed decisions industries. This enables our clients to assess their and prioritise their response. In 2019 we exposure to risk on a more granular level. We have added 23 new indices that assess economic, environmental, development and political also started to incorporate forward looking analysis issues. We also launched our forward looking into our offering through the development of a projections indices that assess the likelihood predictive dataset which assesses the likelihood of of changes in the risk environment six months issues such as civil disorder, interstate tension, and and two years in the future for five key issues government instability occurring in the future. In 2019 we worked to improve our online ‘portal’, which clients use to access risk data and contact analysts for support. The improved functionality in the new portal, which will be launched in 2020, will enable clients to better manage their risks by creating unique dashboards and configurations to meet their needs. Verisk Maplecroft Dataset or Risk Index UNGC Principles Human Rights Dataset Human Rights Principle 1 Civil and Political Rights, Human Security, Labour Rights and Protection, Access to Remedy Risk Principle 2 Labour Rights and Protection Indices Labour Principle 3 Child Labour, Decent Wages, Decent Working Time, Discrimination, Forced labour, Freedom of Principle 4 Association and Collective Bargaining, Migrant workers, Occupational Health and Safety, Trafficking in Persons, Young Workers Principle 5 Principle 6 Environmental Risk Dataset Environment Principle 7 Climate Change and Environment, Natural Hazards Principle 8 Principle 9 Rule of Law Dataset Anti-Corruption Corruption Risk Index Principle 10 28 © Verisk Maplecroft 2020 | maplecroft.com Verisk Maplecroft | UNGC 2020 Communication On Progress Our Products 4 “ Erin McVeigh Erin McVeigh, VP, Head of Client Solutions. With access to 165+ country risk indices, country profiles and expert analysis, Verisk Maplecroft’s Global Risk Dashboard allows you to understand your complete risk landscape. Unlock the evidence driving our propriety risk scores, Photo: Risk data sets, www.veriskmaplecroft.com visualise how risks are changing over time and analyse your company footprint by generating Voluntarily provided feedback on the UK Government’s response bespoke risk scores against each of to the UK Modern Slavery Act your sites. In November 2019, Verisk Maplecroft joined global NGOs and businesses in providing feedback on the UK Government’s own Modern Slavery Act statement. A representative from Verisk Maplecroft used expert analysis and experience of working hand-inhand across sectors with companies complying with the UK Modern Slavery Act to make constructive recommendations for improvement. Requested to join Children’s Rights Safeguarding Group In October 2019, a member of Verisk Maplecroft was invited to bring expertise working in human and children’s rights in business to a cross sector working group. Bex Hall, Managing Consultant Human Rights, was invited to join the new Unicef UK Community of Practice: Safeguarding for Business, which launches in January 2020. The group has may aims, including developing and sharing best practice for safeguarding children’s rights in business operations and activities throughout the world. International Post Corporation’s (IPC) Postal Sector Sustainability Report In 2019, we continued to work with the International Post Corporation (IPC) on its sustainability programme, which has expanded beyond carbon, to encompass broader sustainability ambitions. We have supported IPC since 2008 in developing and implementing it’s original carbon-focussed Environmental Measurement and Monitoring System (EMMS) programme. Over the last three years, we have also been a strategic partner in expanding the programme in alignment with the objectives of the UN Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs). © Verisk Maplecroft 2020 | maplecroft.com 29 4 Verisk Maplecroft | UNGC 2020 Communication On Progress Our Products The expanded Sustainability Measurement and In 2019, we produced the forth iterations of our Human Management System (SMMS) is a sector-wide Rights and Political Risk Outlooks; two publicly available initiative to achieve sustainability goals aligned reports highlighting the most pertinent human rights with the five most relevant UN SDGs for the postal and political trends for business for the forthcoming sector. These are – Goal 8: Decent work and year. Both Outlooks were well received by clients and economic growth; Goal 9: Industrial innovation the media. Client webinars to discuss the identified and infrastructure; Goal 11: Sustainable cities and issues and trends were run in September and October communities; Goal 12: Responsible consumption and 2019 and were attended by over 100 guests. production; and Goal 13: Climate action. The Verisk Maplecroft Modern Slavery Index, launched The SMMS programme is a global initiative, consisting in 2017, continues to be very popular and is used by a of 19 national postal companies from four continents, wide range of organisations to help them identify their and provides a common measurement and reporting potential modern slavery risks and impacts. Dozens structure that enables participants to share their of companies have publicly named us as their data sustainability management strategies, performance source for modern slavery risks, and as their expert and achievements. Verisk Maplecroft will continue advisers in modern slavery statements where our its partnership with IPC in 2020 to further improve consulting teams have supported them. This index is sustainability management and achieve associated specifically designed for companies seeking to assess targets, which are to be announced in 2020. the extent to which they are exposed to modern slavery through their business operations and supply Continuing support for the Children’s Rights and chains. By using the International Labour Organization Business Atlas (ILO) definition of modern slavery, we have aligned Throughout 2019, we continued to support the Global the index with the UK Modern Slavery Act definition to Child Forum and UNICEF with the Children’s Rights help clients meet the requirements of the legislation. and Business Atlas, a free resource for business to use to improve their due diligence and understand risks to children’s rights throughout the world. The Atlas provides businesses with data for 198 countries across three indices: The Children’s Rights in the Workplace Index, Children’s Rights in the Marketplace Index and Children’s Rights in the Community and Environment Index. Business users can also refer to industry guidance to better understand their exposure and consider the actions they need to take to strengthen internal due diligence procedures in the workplace, marketplace and community and environment. Strengthening our product and service offerings Throughout 2019, we continued to update our suite of research and consulting services covering human rights, environmental, economic and political risk, using enhanced methodologies and our rigorous review process. 30 © Verisk Maplecroft 2020 | maplecroft.com Verisk Maplecroft | UNGC 2020 Communication On Progress Our Products 4 New risk indices During 2019, we continued to develop these datasets and by December 2019 we have 162 commodity During 2019 there were a number of changes to our datasets available. When combined with country data risk data indices: this totals a possible 729 combinations for customers ■ Economic indices were revamped and updated to to understand their risks. These commodities include, better reflect the risks posed to clients around the but are not limited to: world. ■ Coal ■ 32 indices are currently available at the sub-national ■ Cotton level, with a great many more being finalised for release in early 2020. This improves the precision ■ Palm oil of the risk scores for clients, and helps capture ■ Cashmere differences in risk within a country. ■ Nickel ■ A new Cyber Risk Index has been developed in the politics dataset, which enables clients to understand ■ Cobalt the threat of cybercrime and invasion of privacy. Future goals ■ 33 of the risk indices are now updated quarterly, ■ Develop new predictive and dynamic indices proving information which is as up to date as and continue to expand the coverage of our possible for clients and reflecting their risks as commodities offering. accurately as possible. The updates will allow risk scores to capture major events and changes, ■ Work with businesses, industry bodies and NGOs to positive and negative, to give the most accurate risk widen our human rights services, including investing score possible. in on the ground human rights impact assessments to better support rightsholders. Developing data analytics and predictive modelling ■ Increase the number of data sets that are services subnational to give more precise risk data. In 2019 we worked on our product offerings in data ■ Support clients on specific environmental, political, analytics and predictive modelling. These products economic or social risks and problems, not only help clients to see risks in real time using a range helping them identify and prevent risks, but also of data sources, and accurately track their existing working collaboratively with our consulting team to and upcoming risks. These tools allow businesses manage them. to act to prevent, manage, mitigate or remediate risks and enable them to be more responsible in their communities and environments. Enhancing due diligence in the sourcing of raw materials through our new commodity datasets In 2016, we launched our commodity risk service to help clients identify environmental, social and governance risks in the sourcing of raw materials. In particular, this helps companies assess risks beyond the first tier of their supply chain, by providing data and insights relating to hard and soft commodities across a range of countries. © Verisk Maplecroft 2020 | maplecroft.com 31 Verisk Maplecroft | UNGC 2020 Communication On Progress Appendix: Support for Women’s Empowerment Principles Verisk Maplecroft takes the following actions to support the Women’s Empowerment Principles “ Policies and practices related to supporting women’s empowerment and advancing gender equality in the workplace Achieving and maintaining gender equality in senior Sabina McKinlay management and board positions Head of Marketing, Bath. We are fully committed to having a representative I feel lucky to be working for a company, where and balanced leadership team. Mentoring and career I’m able to be myself (I’m out at work as a progression is open to all employees, regardless of gay woman) and feel empowered to have a gender, with support and opportunities for all. successful career as a head of marketing with all the flexibility (flexible working hours) and Our President, Sondra Scott, is female and dedicated support (took shared parental leave to look to providing equal opportunities for all staff and after my new-born daughter for 3 months) to spend time with my family. I’ve always felt potential candidates. We are constantly looking to empowered by my boss to thrive in my role improve the ratio of females in management and and been rewarded based on my performance leadership positions and in 2019 appointed Erin rather than gender. McVeigh as Vice President Verisk Maplecroft – Head of Client Solutions, Victoria Gama as Global Content Lead for Human Rights, Indigo Ellis as Head of Africa and Sabina McKinlay as Head of Marketing. Our Gender Working Group continues to collect data on issues such as maternity protections, gender pay gaps and women’s representation across Verisk Maplecroft and our sister company, Wood Mackenzie. Achieving and maintaining gender equality in middle management positions We apply the principle of equality throughout the organisation, promoting a gender-balanced leadership at all levels. Equal pay for work of equal value We use market indicators to inform our pay banding process and to ensure equal pay for men and women at equivalent levels of seniority, experience and capability. See the People section for more details. 32 © Verisk Maplecroft 2020 | maplecroft.com Verisk Maplecroft | UNGC 2020 Communication On Progress Appendix: Support for Women’s Empowerment Principles Flexible work options Following the introduction of a new maternity leave policy in October 2015, which includes improved We operate a flexible working system, whereby work benefits for new mothers, we now ‘top-up’ statutory start and end times are not fixed. This flexibility maternity pay to full pay for the first 18 weeks of gives employees the scope to manage family and maternity leave. Our paternity leave policy has also other non-work commitments alongside their work been updated to provide the same benefits for up to responsibilities. two consecutive weeks of leave following the birth. Having updated our flexible working policy in In 2017, our Gender Working Group developed the 2016, employees are now provided with greater ‘Parental Leave Playbook’. This provides guidance for opportunities for flexible working arrangements, employees (both male and female) and line managers including working from home, telecommuting and in planning for parental leave. The playbook provides sabbatical leave. sample timelines and meeting agendas to ensure that Access to child and dependent care employees and managers communicate effectively and preparations are made for cover, handovers and While we currently do not provide employees with return to work. access to child and dependent care on a corporate basis, UK employees may participate in the Childcare In 2019, several employees have taken advantage Voucher Scheme, which allows them to give up a of this support, including keep in touch days, flexible portion of their salaries in exchange for childcare working and working part time. credit of the same value. Each month, participants Recruitment and retention, including training and are eligible for tax relief and lower National Insurance development, of female employees contributions on vouchers purchased (up to the value of £243). We are an equal opportunities employer, committed to promoting equality and diversity as well as an Support for pregnant women and those returning inclusive and supportive environment for all of our from maternity leave employees. We do not discriminate on the grounds We provide full support to pregnant women in terms of gender, and men and women are treated equally of access to ante-natal care and enhanced health during the recruitment process and throughout their and safety arrangements. While employees are on employment. All employees receive training and have maternity leave, we offer them Keep In Touch (KIT) the opportunity for professional development after days to support their eventual return to work. Prior they join the company. to returning, discussions are held to assist a smooth In 2017, Verisk Maplecroft became a signatory to the reintegration into the workplace, including through the Tech Talent Charter; a commitment by industry bodies provision of flexible working hours. and organisations to drive diversity and address the gender imbalance in technology roles. A senior member of the management team has responsibility for rolling out the commitments outlined in the Charter, including adopting inclusive recruitment processes and contributing employment diversity data to a central anonymised database for annual publication. We have continued to enact this through appointing Erin McVeigh as Head of Client Solutions in early 2019. © Verisk Maplecroft 2020 | maplecroft.com 33 Verisk Maplecroft | UNGC 2020 Communication On Progress Appendix: Support for Women’s Empowerment Principles Gender specific health and safety issues Mentoring and sponsorship opportunities for women workers We take every precaution to ensure we provide and maintain working conditions that are safe, healthy and We aim to assign all employees work mentors when comply with all statutory requirements and relevant they begin employment with us. Work mentors guide codes of practice. The commitment applies to all new employees through the company’s systems and employees, regardless of gender. work methods, and also provide regular feedback on performance. In addition to this, all employees Gender-based violence and harassment can apply for a mentor at any stage in their career to We deplore all forms of sexual harassment and support their professional development. seek to ensure the maintenance of an inclusive, Policies and practices related to supporting women’s supportive and safe environment for all employees. empowerment and advancing gender equality in the Our commitment to this is outlined in our employee marketplace handbook, along with relevant grievance and disciplinary procedures. Supplier diversity programme While Verisk Maplecroft does not currently have a Education and training opportunities for women supplier diversity programme in place, our parent workers company, Verisk Analytics, is advancing efforts to We are committed to the professional development ensure that minority, women and veteran-owned of all our employees. We undertake to provide all businesses, as well as small and disadvantaged of our employees, regardless of gender, with the businesses, are given the opportunity to participate in training necessary to successfully fulfil their job the procurement process in the United States. Verisk responsibilities. has also joined the Women’s Business Enterprise Creating and maintaining workplace awareness of National Council as a first step towards expanding gender equality, inclusion and non-discrimination for procurement opportunities for women-owned all workers businesses. We are an equal opportunities employer, committed During 2017, Verisk implemented a Supplier Code to promoting equality, diversity and an inclusive and of Conduct applicable to all suppliers worldwide. By supportive environment for all of our employees. accepting a contract from Verisk, a supplier agrees to abide by the principles outlined in the Code of Verisk Maplecroft is represented by one employee in Conduct, including those prohibiting discrimination on the Gender Working Group, led by our sister company the basis of sex. The Code of Conduct also outlines Wood Mackenzie. The aim of the working group is to Verisk’s zero tolerance approach to all forms of understand more about the gender balance in both harassment, including sexual harassment. companies and produce recommendations as to how to encourage the attraction, development, retention Composition of supplier base by sex and promotion of female talent. Our parent company, Verisk Analytics, collects data In addition, line managers across our company on the number of female-owned businesses in the have received unconscious bias training as part of supplier base in the United States. an initiative led by the Gender Working Group. This Support for women business owners and training was aimed at helping participants to manage entrepreneurs biases that might not be under conscious control, As outlined above, our parent company, Verisk including those related to gender. Across Verisk Analytics, has joined the Women’s Business Enterprise Maplecroft and our sister company, Wood Mackenzie, National Council to expand procurement opportunities four people are trained to deliver unconscious bias for women-owned businesses. training. 34 © Verisk Maplecroft 2020 | maplecroft.com Verisk Maplecroft | UNGC 2020 Communication On Progress Appendix: Support for Women’s Empowerment Principles Empowering companies to positively impact the lives of girls Adolescent girls and young women face many legal, cultural and economic barriers around the world that hinder their ability to achieve full equality with men. However, research consistently shows that investing in girls and young women is not only vital for lifting families out of poverty, but also for sustained economic growth. In 2015, we received funding from our parent company, Verisk Analytics, to extend the work of Girls Discovered; an interactive data and mapping platform that we had established in 2009 in partnership with the Nike Foundation and United Nations Foundation. Following receipt of the grant, the project team decided to make the platform more business-relevant, and conducted a full rebrand, which included a new name – Girl Stats. The team also comprehensively revised the datasets and indicators on the website, and developed interesting insights and analysis to highlight how businesses can make a difference in the lives of girls around the world. Girl Stats helps companies to understand the issues that girls face, and how their operations can either positively or negatively affect their lives. It focuses on business-relevant issues such as access to education and employment, as well as legal and societal barriers that prevent girls and young women from reaching their full potential. Girl Stats also provides links to compelling CSR initiatives focused on girls, as well as organisations working on the ground so that companies can partner with the right groups to make change. The website also offers in-depth, country-level insights into the situation of girls and young women in key emerging markets. In 2017, Girl Stats was updated to include two years’ worth of data, allowing users to compare indicators over time and analyse trends. The written analysis, which helps users to understand the data, was also updated. Alongside this, all indicators on the website were aligned with the Sustainable Development Goals. Companies can now use Girl Stats to better target their investments to contribute to the realisation of the SDGs. In March 2018, Girl Stats became an independent UK charity, and in 2019 we continue to support Girls Stats with pro-bono support from our research and consulting colleagues. Gender-sensitive product and service development Other established or emerging best practices Verisk Maplecroft has developed a range of products We have an unparalleled range of innovative products and services aimed at helping clients understand and and services that help clients respect the rights of respect the rights of women and girls. This includes women and girls. Many of these have been designed our Women and Girls’ Rights Index, which assesses to incorporate best practice guidance. For example, the risks to business from the possible association the methodology behind our suite of human rights with practices that discriminate against, or infringe on, indices incorporates the United Nations ‘Protect, the rights of women and girls. Respect, Remedy’ Framework as a basis for assessing risk in 198 countries. In addition, the human rights Another example is the Girl Stats platform, which due diligence services that we provide to our clients is was officially launched in June 2016 and which we fully informed and aligned with the ‘Protect, Respect, continue to support in 2019. Remedy’ Framework and the United Nations Guiding Principles on Business and Human Rights. © Verisk Maplecroft 2020 | maplecroft.com 35 Verisk Maplecroft | UNGC 2020 Communication On Progress Appendix: Support for Women’s Empowerment Principles Any relevant policies, procedures and activities that Community initiatives specifically targeted at the the company plans to undertake by its next COP to empowerment of women and girls address this area, including goals, timelines, metrics As outlined previously, the Girl Stats platform provides and responsible staff comprehensive data on the lives of adolescent girls and In 2020, we will address the current gender imbalance at young women around the world, with the aim of helping executive level through smart recruitment and in line with businesses to target their investments to promote our equal opportunities promotion policy. positive change for girls. The COP describes policies and practices related to Strategies to ensure that community investment projects supporting women’s empowerment and advancing and programmes (including economic, social and gender equality in the community environmental) positively impact women and girls. Designing community stakeholder engagements that Our main impact in this respect is through the provision are free of gender discrimination /stereotyping and are of a range of human rights products and services. These sensitive to gender issues help clients to make a positive contribution to the rights of those affected by their actions, both direct and indirect, For the past 14 years, we have been helping including women and girls. organisations manage stakeholder relationships, often in highly sensitive environments. This has included the We endeavour to provide access to these products design and implementation of numerous community and services to as many organisations as possible. stakeholder engagements for clients. These projects Indeed, we make some of this content publicly available are carefully planned to ensure that they are free from (for example, via the Girl Stats platform, or through discrimination and sensitive to gender issues. In many the publication of thought leadership pieces). We also cases, the stakeholder engagement projects that are consider providing our products and services to NGOS undertaken require the matter of gender equality to and international organisations at a discount on a casebe directly addressed, necessitating a fair and nonby-case basis, where this is practical. For example, the discriminatory approach to be taken to data collection. Women and Girls Rights Index was given pro bono to National Geographic alongside the Human Rights Risk Gender impact assessments or consideration of Index and the CCVI. All of these featured in their Atlas of gender-related impacts as part of its social and/or the World 11th Edition. human rights impact assessments We provide human rights impact assessments as part of a range of human rights due diligence services we offer. These assessments focus on assessing clients’ actual and potential human rights impacts. Assessments include gender-related impacts, and are carried out in line with the United Nations Guiding Principles on Business and Human Rights. 36 © Verisk Maplecroft 2020 | maplecroft.com maplecroft.com Verisk Maplecroft is a Verisk business.
