2019 Sustainability Report 1 Executive Letter GRI 102-14 At Greif, we are focused on developing solutions to safely package and protect our customers’ products in pursuit of our vision: In industrial packaging, be the best performing customer service company in the world. While our 2019 Sustainability Report discusses the progress Greif has made in our sustainability programs in 2019, as we publish this report, our business is responding to the global COVID-19 pandemic. As an essential business and critical supplier around the globe, we formed global and regional task forces to monitor the situation in real time and take appropriate action as quickly as possible to protect the health and safety of our colleagues, maintain the service levels our customers have come to expect of us and protect business continuity. Please visit our Coronavirus (COVID-19) Customer Update page for current information on our response e orts. As we respond to this global crisis, our long-term sustainability strategies remain consistent. Whether it is through innovating our own products, collaborating with our customers to reduce the impact of their packaging or expanding our end-oflife solutions and capabilities, 2019 saw great advancements towards Peter G. Watson Ole G. Rosgaard implementing the circular economy principles that are core to our sustainability – and business – strategy. Our Greif Green Tool continues to drive collaboration, and reduce environmental impact, with our customers by enabling lowest impact packaging decisions. We have continued our work with customers and leading food safety experts to further evolve our industry leading Food Safety Initiative. These partnerships have led to revolutionary manufacturing processes and product launches, and are helping to set new standards for product quality across our business. In 2019 we completed our acquisition of Caraustar, greatly expanding our Paper Packaging & Services business segment and the end-of-life services we can provide. With our expanded footprint, we are now proud to be a net positive paper recycler, recovering and recycling more waste paper than we produce. We are also growing the EarthMinded reconditioning network in our Rigid Industrial Packaging business and introducing industry-leading services to make them easier and more e cient for our customers to use. Our commitment to circular economy is just one of our sustainability strategies that supports our three strategic priorities of engaged teams, di erentiated customer service and enhanced performance. Our e orts to better engage our colleagues resulted in increased participation in our engagement survey, as well as increased engagement scores. Our dedication to instilling a culture of safety in the organization is unwavering, with 53 percent of our manufacturing sites recording zero accidents in 2019. In 2019 we achieved our highest Net Promotor Score and Customer Service Index, further illustrating the direct link between customer service excellence and pro table growth. We delivered a step change in our nancial results, fueled by the acquisition and ongoing integration of Caraustar, with signi cant improvements in EBITDA, earnings per share and Free Cash Flow. Our sustainability initiatives continue to receive external recognition. EcoVadis awarded Greif the ‘Gold Recognition Level’ in sustainability performance for the second year in a row, placing us in the top four percent of companies they evaluate. We once again received an Arating from CDP for our 2019 Climate Change response, our second consecutive year achieving this score. We also received an A for Supplier Engagement, placing Greif in the top three percent of companies responding to CDP, for our actions and strategies to reduce emissions and manage climate risks in our supply chain. We are proud of our climate-related achievements, but recognize the urgency to address climate change is only increasing for our organization and for our planet. To further understand and address our climate impacts and implement recommendations from the Task Force on Climate-Related Financial Disclosures (TCFD), we have taken the rst steps in conducting a scenario analysis and will be establishing a new 2030 climate goal. We greatly look forward to announcing our new goals in 2020. We are proud to share our 2019 progress in our 11th annual sustainability report. Our report, prepared in full accordance with the GRI Standards Core guidelines, serves as our annual Communication on Progress to the United Nations Global Compact and is our rst reporting to SASB standards. Greif is better positioned than ever to create value for our colleagues, the communities where we operate and live, our customers and our shareholders. As we continue to embed sustainability into the fabric of our organization, we are optimistic and excited about our future. Best Regards, Peter G. Watson Ole G. Rosgaard President and Chief Executive O cer Senior Vice President, Rigid Industrial Packaging & Services and Global Sustainability 1.49 Medical Case Rate Gold Recognition from 89.8 Average Customer EcoVadis Satisfaction Index Score Down 57 percent since 2007. Received for our commitment to Corporate Our highest scores ever, demonstrating our Social Responsibility, placing us in the top four commitment to serving our customers better. percent of all assessed suppliers. © Copyright 2020 Greif. All Rights Reserved. 1 About Our Company GRI 102-1, 102-3, 102-7 With approximately 290 production, warehouse and o ce locations across the globe, Greif is a leading world producer of industrial packaging products and services. Our approximately 17,000 colleagues work in more than 40 countries, with our headquarters in Delaware, Ohio. During Fiscal Year 2019, we generated more than $4.5 billion in net sales. Products, Services & Markets GRI 102-4, 102-6 At Greif, we produce rigid industrial, paper and exible packaging goods as well as provide land management services. Our packaging services primarily consist of lling, blending, reconditioning, recycling, recycled ber collection, warehousing and logistics. Soterra, our land management subsidiary, provides timberland management, consulting, wildlife stewardship and wetlands mitigation bank development. We sell to various industries including food and beverage, chemicals, agricultural, pharmaceutical, petroleum, automotive, home appliances and many more. To see a full description of our products, services and markets, please visit Greif.com. COUNTRIES OF OPERATION* North America Canada1,3 Mexico1, 2 United States1, 2, 3, 4 Latin America Argentina1 Chile1 Costa Rica1 Brazil1 Columbia1 Guatemala1 Asia Paci c China1,2 Malaysia1 Vietnam1, 2 India2 Singapore1 Europe Austria1 Hungary1 Romania2 Belgium1, 2 Ireland2 Russia1 Czech Republic1 Italy1 Spain1 Denmark1 Netherlands1, 2 Sweden1 France1, 2 Poland1 Turkey1, 2 Germany1, 2 Portugal1 Ukraine1, 2 Greece1 United Kingdom1, 2 Middle East Israel1 Saudi Arabia1 Africa Algeria1 Kenya1 Nigeria1 Egypt1 Morocco1 South Africa1 1 Rigid Industrial Packaging & Services; 2 Flexible Products & Services; 3 Paper Packaging & Services; 4 Land Management *As of close of FY2019 Our Workforce GRI 102-8, 102-41 EMPLOYEES BY REGION EMPLOYEES BY ROLE Europe, the Middle East Operations and Africa Professional North America Facilities/Engineering Asia Paci c Transportation/Logistics (4%) Latin America Sales (3%) Other (0.9%) Management (0.1%) PERMANENT EMPLOYEES FEMALE EMPLOYEES WOMEN IN MANAGEMENT INTERNATIONAL SENIOR EXECUTIVES 2 COLLEAGUES COVERED BY COLLECTIVE BARGAINING AGREEMENTS BY REGION (APPROXIMATE VALUES) Europe, the Middle East, & Africa Latin America Asia Paci c North America 290 290 sites around the 17,000 Colleagues 142 Years of Experience world Our people—principled, intelligent and For the past 142 years, the world’s most reliable—rea rm our reputation for integrity important products have travelled around the Our global reach is near you. every day with their every action. world in Greif industrial packaging. © Copyright 2020 Greif. All Rights Reserved. 3 Governance, Policies & Partnerships Governance GRI 102-20 Sustainability reaches all levels of our organization. In 2016, we established board oversight of sustainability. The Board of Directors receives annual updates from the Senior Vice President, Rigid Industrial Packaging & Services (RIPS) and Global Sustainability on behalf of our 11-member Sustainability Steering Committee. The Committee, which includes representatives from Greif’s Executive Leadership Team (ELT), is tasked with further integrating sustainability into our strategy and operations, reviewing our sustainability progress and priorities biannually and ensuring accountability at all levels of our organization. The Board holds the Sustainability Committee accountable for reaching annual goals, which impacts the remuneration of Committee members and determines the level of funding for Greif’s sustainability programs. The Steering Committee guides the activities of our six-member Sustainability Management Team, which works with topic teams consisting of representatives from each region and business unit to drive facility level projects and priorities. SUSTAINABILITY GOVERNANCE STRUCTURE Corporate Policies GRI 102-16 We believe that behavior in uences culture and culture determines performance. Our culture—and ethics and compliance expectations—are based on the principles set forth in The Greif Way. We practice these principles every day through the policies that govern our organization. Anti-bribery and Sanctions Policy Environmental Health and Safety Policy Anti-Harassment and Anti-Discrimination Policy Equal Employment Opportunity & Diversity Policy Antitrust/Competition Compliance Policy Fair Treatment of Others Policy Code of Business Conduct and Ethics Human Rights Policy Contractor Safety Policy Insider Trading Policy Corporate Governance Guidelines IT Procurement and Services Policy Corrective Actions Policy Records Management & Retention Policy Data Privacy Policy Relationships at Work Policy Economic and Trade Sanctions Policy Tobacco-Free Workplace Policy Partnerships GRI 102-12 Greif seeks to actively engage with organizations to increase the reach of our sustainability e orts. Some of our key partnerships include: Operation Clean Sweep To expand our commitment to reducing waste, in 2017, Greif became a signatory to Operation Clean Sweep (OCS), an international program originally designed by the plastics industry and supported by The British Plastics Federation and PlasticsEurope to prevent pellet, ake and powder loss and the potential introduction of pellets to the marine environment where they create both a litter problem and a threat to sea life and wildlife. The essence of OCS is to help each segment of the plastics industry, including resin producers, transporters, bulk terminal operators and plastics processors, to implement good housekeeping and pellet, ake and powder containment practices towards achieving zero pellet, ake and powder loss. For more information on our partnership with OCS, please visit our Waste page. Pollinator Partnership In 2009, our Soterra operations embarked on a multi-year study with the Pollinator Partnership and NAPCC, the world's foremost experts on pollination issues, to learn how pollinators impact wildlife food availability on timber landscapes, the added value of hosting honey bees and beekeepers on the landscape and to discover the best management practice for ecosystem services on forest landscapes. For more information, please visit our Biodiversity page. SmartWay The SmartWay Transport Partnership is an innovative collaboration between the freight industry and the U.S. Environmental Protection Agency (U.S. EPA). It is a market-driven partnership aimed at helping businesses move goods in the cleanest, most e cient way possible. Its purpose is to accelerate the availability, adoption and market penetration of advanced fuel-e cient technologies and operational practices in the freight supply chain, while helping companies save fuel, lower costs and reduce adverse environmental impacts. To improve e ciency and reduce greenhouse gas emissions from our vehicle eet, Greif joined the SmartWay Transport Partnership in 2009. For more information about our partnership, please see our Climate Strategy, Energy & Emissions page. 4 UN Global Compact Integrity and respect for people are Core Values for Greif, and we believe that social and environmental responsibility are aligned and essential for long-term sustainability. The United Nations Global Compact is a voluntary strategic policy initiative for businesses that are committed to aligning their operations and strategies with ten universally-accepted Principles in the areas of human rights, labor, environment and anti-corruption. We consider these Principles to be a natural extension of our Code of Business Conduct and Ethics, which outlines our commitment to be open, honest and trustworthy in all of our dealings with all stakeholders. Our policies and procedures incorporate our commitment to human rights, freedom of association, excellence in environment and health and safety. In April 2016, Greif became a signatory to the UN Global Compact, con rming our commitment to these Principles. Each year, we publish our Communication on Progress on the Ten Principles of the compact. World Business Council for Sustainable Development Greif is a member of the World Business Council for Sustainable Development (WBCSD), a CEO-led global association of approximately 200 of the most environmentally-responsible companies in the world. Member companies are committed to providing business leadership as a catalyst for change toward sustainable development. Members are drawn from more than 30 countries and 20 major industrial sectors. We signed on to the organization's Manifesto for Energy E ciency in Buildings (EEB). Greif is proud to have hosted the rst Midwest WBCSD conference in 2011, and again in 2012 and 2013, to discuss and share ideas and strategies about how to respond to some of the key environmental and business sustainability questions we face today and to share best practices. We are proud to have partnered with WBCSD to publish From Cradle to Grave: Greif's Life Cycle Analysis, a case study on how we implement Life Cycle Analysis in our business. In 2018 we joined WBCSD’s Factor 10 working group on circular economy. The following year, in 2019, we joined two groups, WBCSD’s ReScale group, which is focused on renewable energy, and the newly created Energy Solutions group. However, the Energy Solutions group, whose focus is on climate and energy, to better drive pre-competitive improvements across industries on these critical topics, o cially launched at the start of 2020. Trade Associations GRI 102-13 As a leader in the global industrial packaging industry, Greif participates in trade associations to discuss relevant issues and opportunities and to continue to move the industry in a positive direction. Please review our Trade Associations for more information. 290 290 sites around the 17,000 Colleagues 142 Years of Experience world Our people—principled, intelligent and For the past 142 years, the world’s most Our global reach is near you. reliable—rea rm our reputation for integrity important products have travelled around the every day with their every action. world in Greif industrial packaging. © Copyright 2020 Greif. All Rights Reserved. 5 Accreditations & Awards Accreditations CDP Climate Change Report 2019 – A-, Leadership; A, Supplier Engagement 2018 – A-, Leadership 2017 – B, Management 2016 – A-, Leadership 2015 – 92B 2014 – 87 EcoVadis 2019 Gold Recognition 2018 Gold Recognition 2017 – Silver Recognition 2016 – Silver Recognition 2015 – Silver Recognition 2014 – Bronze Recognition Forbes 2014 America’s 100 Most Trustworthy Companies Forest Stewardship Council/Programme for the Endorsement of Forest Certi cation 2011 – Massillon, Ohio Mill Sustainable Forestry Initiative (SFI) 2008 – 2013 – Soterra Forest Certi cation 2010 – 2011 – Riverville, Virginia Mill Sourcing Certi cation Awards DoubleGreen COEX 10-liter plastic jerry can 2014 IAIR Sustainability Award Frost & Sullivan’s 2014 Manufacturing Leadership Sustainability Award EarthMinded DIY Rain Barrel Kit Lawn, Garden & Outdoor Living Innovation Awards Honorable Mention Energy E ciency Consumers Energy – Business Energy E ciency Program Project of the Year packH20 Premio Eco Brasil 2015 Award for Sustainability Practices PackTheFuture 2014 Award for Sustainable Plastic Packaging People’s Design 2013 Award in the Smithsonian Cooper-Hewitt, National Design Award Competition SEED (Social Economic Environmental Design®) 2013 Excellence in Public Interest Design Honorable Mention Popular Science Magazine 2012 Best of What’s New Award, Green Category Global Green USA’s 2012 Industrial Design Award Responsible Companies Newsweek's America's Most Responsible Companies of 2020 Source Reduction – Callaway Golf “Greener on the Greens” package (Caraustar) 21st DuPont Packaging Innovations Awards: Noteworthy Accomplishment Award for Sustainable Packaging Soterra and Pollinator Partnership Sustainable Forestry Initiative (SFI) Conservation Leadership Award Environmental Stewardship Award by the Partners for Environmental Progress (PEP) Supply Chain Services Solvay Supplier Sustainability Award 2016 Eastman Chemical Company Innovation and Sustainability Awards 2011 23rd DuPont Awards Packaging Innovation Gold Waste Reduction AbsorbTech Achievement in Waste Reduction Award 6 Third Party Audits Sedex 2018 – Amsterdam, Netherlands – SMETA 4-pillar audit 2018 – Araucaria, Brazil – SMETA 4-pillar audit 2016 – Tianjin, China – SMETA 4-pillar audi 2015 – Sultanbeyli, Turkey – 100% audit performance Together for Sustainability (TfS) 2019 Cologne, Germany – 98% audit performance Sultanbeyli, Turkey – 98% audit performance 2018 Usti, Czech Republic – 95% audit performance Campana, Argentina – 83% audit performance 2017 Napervile, Illinois 100% audit performance Lockport, Illinois 98% audit performance 2016 Attendorn, Germany – 96% audit performance Shanghai, China – 80% audit performance 2015 Europoort, Netherlands – 97% audit performance AGreif’s 2019 CDP Score Gold Recognition from 93.9% Average Together for EcoVadis Sustainability Score Demonstrating excellence in carbon management, governance, strategy and best Received for our commitment to Corporate Our audited facilities are contributing to practices, and outperforming the overall and Social Responsibility, placing us in the top four developing industry-wide sustainability North American average CDP score of C. percent of all assessed suppliers. standards for suppliers to chemical manufacturers. © Copyright 2020 Greif. All Rights Reserved. 7 About Our Report GRI 102-50, 102-52, 102-53, 102-54 This is Greif’s 11th annual sustainability report, based on our scal year, November 1, 2018, through October 31, 2019. In February 2019, Greif completed the acquisition of Caraustar Industries, Inc., a leading vertically-integrated paperboard manufacturer in North America (“Caraustar”). While Caraustar is now a wholly owned subsidiary of Greif, some management practices and data systems will continue to be integrated through 2020. This report re ects the status of Caraustar’s integration through October 31, 2019, with a primary focus on the alignment of Caraustar’s sustainability data and practices with Greif’s pre-existing programs. This report is prepared in accordance with the GRI Standards: Core option, SASB Application Guidance and ful lls the United Nations Global Compact (UNGC) annual Communication on Progress (COP). For questions on this report, please contact Aysu Katun, Director of Sustainability at Aysu.Katun@Greif.com. 290 290 sites around the 17,000 Colleagues 142 Years of Experience world Our people—principled, intelligent and For the past 142 years, the world’s most Our global reach is near you. reliable—rea rm our reputation for integrity important products have travelled around the every day with their every action. world in Greif industrial packaging. © Copyright 2020 Greif. All Rights Reserved. 8 Stakeholder Engagement & Materiality GRI 102-49 We published our rst sustainability report in 2009. While Greif has experienced incredible success these past 11 years, we continue to evolve and re ne the way we approach sustainability. In 2019, we enhanced the sustainability programs that make our company e cient, enhanced the management of our material topics, engaged colleagues on sustainability and worked to integrate our new colleagues from Caraustar into our organization and our sustainability strategies. Our 2019 GRI Core report showcases our accomplishments and progress on our long-term sustainability goals. Value Chain GRI 102-9 Greif’s value chain consists of raw material suppliers, transportation and distribution partners, customers, end-of-life services and external stakeholders that in uence our activities. Materiality Assessment Process GRI 102-42, 102-43 In 2017, Greif conducted our rst materiality assessment to identify and prioritize our material sustainability topics, identify and engage our key stakeholders and inform our sustainability strategies, reporting and communications. The assessment was led by a third-party and conducted in accordance with industry best practices for material topic identi cation and stakeholder engagement. As part of the materiality process we: Mapped our value chain and identi ed key stakeholders along it Reviewed a wide range of source documents to determine potentially material topics, including: Greif's vision, strategic priorities, CEO scorecard, business unit strategies and colleagues engagement survey Customer satisfaction survey results Peer sustainability reports ESG investment analyst reports Industry association priorities Global sustainability trend reports Conducted interviews and surveys with Greif leadership and external stakeholders and reviewed additional publicly available sources to collect feedback on potentially material topics Consolidated feedback from interviews and surveys to identify our most material topics Through the interview, survey and document review process, participants were asked to identify and provide speci c evidence in support of the topics that posed the impact, risk and/or opportunity for Greif. Participants were ask to consider impact, risk and opportunity in terms of nancial gains or losses, reputation and trends that may alter the way Greif creates value, and provide speci c examples in support of their answers. We began with 32 environmental, social, product, economic and governance topics and narrowed the list down to 16 topics during the stakeholder engagement process. These 16 topics represent the highest priority indicators to our stakeholders. The results of the assessment were reviewed and validated with Greif’s leadership during a third-party-led validation workshop and serve as the basis for our reporting. In 2021, we will refresh our materiality assessment to understand how stakeholder expectations have evolved and account for the impact of Caraustar on our material topics. 9 Material Topics GRI 102-40, 102-44, 102-46, 102-47 Our 16 most highly material issues identi ed through our materiality assessment process are described below and collectively form our sustainability strategies. The stakeholder engagement and materiality assessment process validated many topics that have historically been important to Greif and our stakeholders. Our sustainability reporting serves to address topics that are of high concern to each group, as indicated below. Our engagement yielded topic owners within Greif and goals for 2025. We continue to strengthen our approach to managing and addressing the opportunities available to our company. Throughout this report you will learn about our goals, management approach and performance for our material topics. MATERIAL TOPIC BOUNDARY STAKEHOLDERS ENGAGED, TYPES OF STAKEHOLDER ENGAGEMENT & CONCERNS RAISED Greif’s Board of Customers Investors Society/Community Environment Directors & Leaders Types of Engagement Daily interactions, impact Daily interactions, biDaily interactions, Community engagement Greif LCA, mapping interviews, annual satisfaction, investor day (face-to-face meetings, interviews with materiality assessment surveys, materiality events, materiality interviews, survey), sustainability survey, quarterly updates on assessment assessment community service experts (e.g., sustainabiltiy interviews interviews events WBCSD) Delivering Superior Customer Experience Product All internal Quality operations; during use Customer All internal Service operations; all Excellence customers Reducing Our Footprint Environmental All internal Management operations Systems Climate All internal Strategy, operations Energy & Emissions Water PPS operations Waste All internal operations Addressing Risk Ethics & All internal Compliance operations; all suppliers Risk All internal Management & operations; all Business suppliers Continuity Security All internal operations Valuing Our People Talent All internal Attraction, operations Development & Retention Health & Safety All internal operations; Community Human Rights All internal & Fair Labor operations; all Practices suppliers Advancing Circular Economy Innovation All internal operations; suppliers; customers Cradle to Reconditioning Cradle operations; Reconditioning, reconditioning Reuse, & partners; Recycling customers Supply Chain All internal Management operations; all suppliers; trucking partners Financial Performance & Proﬁtable Growth Financial All internal Performance & operations Proﬁtable Growth 10 290 290 sites around the 17,000 Colleagues 142 Years of Experience world Our people—principled, intelligent and For the past 142 years, the world’s most reliable—rea rm our reputation for integrity important products have travelled around the Our global reach is near you. every day with their every action. world in Greif industrial packaging. © Copyright 2020 Greif. All Rights Reserved. 11 Strategic Priorities From our material topics to our strategic priorities, Greif’s sustainability strategies support our fundamental vision of, in industrial packaging, be the best performing customer service company in the world and our commitment Invest in our people Deliver industry leading to conducting business The Greif Way. Our sustainability e orts contribute to and teams to foster a customer service our commitment to creating shared value for our customers, stakeholders and strong culture of excellence to achieve the environment. We invite you to explore our strategic integration graphic, employee engagement superior customer which demonstrates the interconnectedness of Greif’s sustainability program and accountability. satisfaction and loyalty. across our entire business. In 2019, we surveyed 18 of Greif’s senior leaders to better understand how Greif uses and transforms nancial, manufactured, intellectual, human, social and Vision natural capital to create value for our company. These conversations reinforced the importance of our sustainability investments in executing our business In industrial packaging, strategies and will help inform how we further integrate sustainability into our be the best performing business. customer service company in the world. Strive for and realize performance excellence and value creation. Invest in our people and teams to foster a strong culture of employee engagement and accountability. Sustainability Strategies Valuing Our People Health & Safety Human Rights & Fair Labor Practices Talent Attraction, Development & Retention The Greif Way Ethical Strong Through Diversity 2025 Goals 2025 Goals 100 percent of permanent employees will participate in regular performance development discussions by the end of scal year 2025. Using scal year 2017 baseline, increase average hours of annual training per employee by 50 percent by the end of scal year 2025. 100 percent of employees will be covered by parental leave by the end of scal year 2025. Reduce Medical Case Rate by 10 percent annually to achieve 100 percent safety – Medical Case Rate Zero – in the long term. Every plant will have a collaborative environmental health and safety committee consisting of both management and workers by the end of scal year 2025. 100 percent of our operations will be subject to internal human rights reviews, measured on a rolling cycle, by the end of scal year 2025. 100 percent of employees will be trained in human rights policies and procedures by the end of scal year 2025. Using scal year 2017 baseline, increase the proportion of women in management positions by 25 percent by the end of scal year 2025. 12 Deliver industry leading customer service excellence to achieve superior customer satisfaction and loyalty. Sustainability Strategies Delivering Superior Customer Service Customer Service Excellence Product Quality Reducing Our Footprint Supply Chain Management Addressing Risk Risk Management & Business Continuity Advancing Circular Economy End-of-Life Reconditioning, Reuse & Recycling Innovation The Greif Way Ethical Serious About Sustainability Committed to Continuous Improvement 2025 Goals Using a scal year 2017 baseline, reduce raw materials/logistical costs used to produce current product o ering by one percent by the end of scal year 2025. Move from non-green (oil-based, more energy intensive) to green material sourcing if it is economically feasible and doing so provides high quality products to our customers by the end of scal year 2025. Strive for and realize performance excellence and value creation. Sustainability Strategies Addressing Risk Ethics & Compliance Security Financial Performance & Pro table Growth Reducing Our Footprint Biodiversity Climate Strategy, Energy & Emissions Environmental Management Systems Waste Water The Greif Way Ethical Strong through Diversity Serious About Sustainability Committed to Continuous Improvement 2025 Goals 10 percent reduction in energy and greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions per unit of production, from a scal 2014 baseline.* (* 2020 Goal) Reduce Biochemical Oxygen Demand (BOD) discharged in kilograms by 10 percent per metric ton of production from Riverville and Massillon mills using a 2014 baseline by the end of scal year 2025. Divert 90 percent of waste from land lls from all Greif production facilities globally by the end of scal year 2025. Provide online training of the Greif Code of Business Conduct and Ethics to 100 percent of employees with access to computers by the end of scal year 2025. Provide training and information on the Greif Anti-bribery Policy to 100 percent of employees for whom training is relevant by the end of scal year 2025. Provide online training of the Fair Treatment of Employees Policy to 100 percent of employees with access to computers and provide accessible and traceable information to all employees by the end of scal year 2025. 13 Financial Capital Key material topics: Innovation, Financial Performance, Ethics & Compliance, Security, Product Quality The need to invest and be in a nancial position to be competitive is at the heart of Greif’s operations. Our ability to generate nancial capital is dependent on e cient operations, attracting and retaining a skilled workforce, continuing to innovate to meet our customers’ expectations, and maintaining the trust of our customers. E ectively achieving each of these both requires investment and is necessary to generate nancial returns. Human Capital Key material topics: Talent Attraction, Development & Retention, Health & Safety, Human Rights & Fair Labor Practices, Customer Service Excellence, Financial Performance Despite the increasing availability of technologies that could allow us to automate some of our operations, there continues to be a strong, and growing, demand for skilled labor in our organization. Our investments in training and development are aimed at providing our over 17,000 employees with the skills they need to perform their jobs, serve our customers and move our company into the future. Collectively, our people have the capability to impact our performance across all forms of capital more than any other form of capital. Social Capital Key material topics: Customer Service Excellence, Cradle-to-Cradle Reconditioning, Reuse & Recycling, Innovation, Ethics & Compliance As a global organization, we must maintain the trust of a large and complex group of stakeholders. Whether through collaboration with our customers, partnerships we establish with academic institutions and other NGOs, or any other interaction we have with our stakeholders, we work to instill high quality relationships by demonstrating our commitment to The Greif Way and responsible business practices. Our sustainability initiatives help us communicate these commitments and directly impacts our brand, reputation and willingness for customers to do business with us. Intellectual Capital Key material topics: Innovation, Supply Chain Management Innovation and new technologies have the potential to be great di erentiators. Our dedicated innovation activities, thought leadership and collaboration with customers and other external stakeholders are critical elements of developing, demonstrating and leveraging our intellectual capital. Focusing on innovation and developing our intellectual capital allows us to identify new business models and solutions that will lead to new opportunities that can positively impact Greif’s nancials. As many of our customers set long-term goals, particularly on environmental topics such as energy, emissions, waste and reducing plastics, we are positioning ourselves, and our products, to help them meet their objectives. Manufactured Capital Key material topics: Product Quality, Supply Chain Management, Cradle-to-Cradle Reconditioning, Reuse & Recycling, Risk Management & Business Continuity Greif’s global footprint is a key di erentiator and critical component to how we protect and grow our business. Our investments in and maintenance of our facilities, production lines and capabilities and products we manufacture are directly tied to our ability to generate revenue, but also provide an opportunity to operate more e ciently, minimize our risk exposure and reduce our environmental impact by applying circular economy principles and executing on our strategies to reduce our footprint. Natural Capital Key material topics: Environmental Management Systems, Climate Strategy, Energy & Emissions, Water, Waste, Biodiversity, Innovation, Supply Chain Management, Cradle-to-Cradle Reconditioning, Reuse & Recycling Greif relies heavily on the use of natural resources in our business. Through the materials we source, manufacturing processes we implement and logistics that enable our supply chain, we have a responsibility to minimize our reliance on natural resources, and reduce our footprint, as much as possible. Over time, as natural resources become more constrained and regulations over the use of them continue to advance, these resources will become more valuable and organizations that have worked to responsibly manage, and minimize use, of them where possible will be better positioned to compete. Each of our sustainability strategies to reduce our footprint and advance circular economy principles is aimed at reducing our use of natural capital, engaging our customers and supply chain to do the same and establishing partnerships that will help us advance these priorities more quickly. 290 290 sites around the 17,000 Colleagues 142 Years of Experience world Our people—principled, intelligent and For the past 142 years, the world’s most Our global reach is near you. reliable—rea rm our reputation for integrity important products have travelled around the every day with their every action. world in Greif industrial packaging. © Copyright 2020 Greif. All Rights Reserved. 14 Delivering Superior Customer Service Our vision of, in industrial packaging, be the best performing customer service company in the world, depends on our ability to supply quality products and continually nd ways to better serve our customers. 61 Net Promoter Score 1.0 Corrective Action Rate 89.8 Average Customer Satisfaction Index Score We realized continued improvement in our Reduced by 52 percent since 2015 in our RIPS NPS score, achieving our highest score ever in North America business. Our highest scores ever, demonstrating our 2019. commitment to serving our customers better. © Copyright 2020 Greif. All Rights Reserved. 15 DELIVERING SUPERIOR CUSTOMER SERVICE Product Quality Establishing quality control standards to meet customer expectations with every order and every delivery. Why Product Quality Matters GRI 416: 103-1, 103-2, 103-3 The quality of our products lies at the heart of our business. We hold ourselves to the highest standards, as product quality is non-negotiable for our customers. Every year, our customers’ expectations increase, leading us to focus on continuous product quality improvement. Greif’s nancial success depends on our capacity to reliably produce high-quality, defect-free products that meet the applicable speci cations at all of our manufacturing facilities. Governance We evaluate product quality based on the structure and integrity of our products and compliance with applicable speci cations for each item we manufacture. In 1.0 2019, 52 percent of Greif’s approximately 250 eligible global production sites were certi ed to ISO 9001 standards for quality management. 100 percent of Flexible Products & Services (FPS) and Tri-Sure sites and 91 percent of Rigid Industrial Packaging & Services (RIPS) sites globally are ISO 9001 certi ed. We actively maintain product quality centrally through our quality standards and track performance on two product quality indicators: Corrective Action Rate (CAR) and total customer Corrective Action Rate complaints. Additionally, select facilities use order reliability rate as a product quality indicator. Each month, regional presidents, vice presidents and general managers Reduced by 52 percent since 2015 in our RIPS North are updated on our performance on these indicators. America business. We use our integrated quality system, Greif QS, to communicate quality standards to our production network. Greif QS houses a suite of applications that ensure quality and consistency in our product processes throughout all of our facilities. Examples of these applications include: Complaint Response/Corrective Action Systems Internal Corrective and Preventive Action Systems Audit Management System Calibration Systems Supplier Management Systems Management Review System Document and Training Management Systems While each facility implements the applications most relevant to their operations, Greif QS enables us to utilize critical control points in the manufacturing process to discover and correct deviations from production speci cations before a potential defect has the opportunity to negatively impact production or reach a customer. Potential quality issues are reported through our ERP system. When a quality issue is identi ed, corrective procedures are documented and conveyed through the appropriate communication channels. If we identify a recurring product quality defect, we launch a Product/Process Audit, which is conducted by an internal team of engineering, quality and product representatives. The team uses speci c criteria to assess a facility against the processes, standards, equipment and tools that were used during production. This enables the team to work with the facility to resolve the reoccurring issue and improve the product quality process. Evaluation teams also leverage our root cause corrective action tool that allows us to assess the severity of a quality complaint based on a number of indicators, including nancial impact, frequency and type of complaint. By providing objective criteria to evaluate complaints, the process allows us to better prioritize and address the highest risk complaints. As part of the Caraustar acquisition and integration, legacy Caraustar sites have begun using Greif QS to manage customer complaints in addition to their existing quality management systems. Additional Greif QS applications will be implemented at legacy Caraustar facilities as systems continue to be integrated. We continue to use our Quality Management System (QMS) scorecard to better evaluate the performance of the applications within Greif QS. The scorecard generates an organizational health report based upon all the tools centralized within Greif QS, including customer complaints, internal corrective actions, management reviews and supplier evaluations. The Greif QS Steering Committee, consisting of quality leaders from our RIPS, Tri-Sure and FPS divisions, reviews all applications and requests for new applications to determine and prioritize improvements that will provide the most bene t and improve product quality performance globally. The committee supports regional Quality Councils comprised of regional, business unit and product management leadership. In 2018, we created a Management of Change tool within Greif QS to identify and categorize changes to raw materials, suppliers, processes and other indicators that could impact product quality. Management of Change uses a series of questions to determine the severity of the change and initiates a review process prior to the change being approved for implementation. Once a change is approved, it is communicated to the impacted functions throughout Greif. This tool allows us to engage departments across the organization and generate tasks to ensure compliance. 2019 brought continued advancement of the tool, which now enables us to communicate changes to the commercial team, who can then notify our customers of changes as quickly as possible. We have incorporated our UN certi cation process into Greif QS in 2019. Within Greif QS, we de ned the required speci cations to achieve UN certi cation for our relevant products and can now manage the manufacturing process to ensure we remain in compliance. In 2019, we continued to place an emphasis on improving our food safety programs. We conducted a market analysis on food safety requirements and practices, including topics such as sanitation, pest control and traceability, to establish a baseline good manufacturing practice (GMP) program to implement across Greif. Based on those requirements, we developed a new ISO/GMP system integrating our food safety requirements with our current manufacturing processes. At the end of 2019, 45 percent of our RIPS North America facilities were compliant with the new standards. All RIPS North America facilities are planned to be compliant by the end of 2020. 16 In RIPS North America, we continue to execute on our strategic quality roadmaps, which help us ensure that our product quality initiatives are identi ed through a standardized process, align to Greif’s strategic objectives, 2025 goals and support continuous improvement. Our roadmaps are reviewed annually by RIPS North American leadership and provide a threeto ve-year plan for our focus initiatives and detailed project plans for short-term initiatives. Outcomes of the initiatives contribute to individual and team performance goals and contribute to improvements to CAR, customer complaints and ultimately Greif’s Customer Service Index (CSI) and Net Promoter Score (NPS) performance. In 2019 we improved our process for identifying focus plants by incorporating additional metrics into the process, including recurring complaints, severity of the quality issue and system utilization, into the evaluation process. Assessing these metrics allows us to address potential quality issues at facilities that may currently be performing well on CSI and proactively address concerns that could impact performance in the future. Collectively, our product quality e orts allow us to continue to improve in the highest priority areas to our customers: leaks, on-time delivery, contaminants and aesthetic quality. In 2020, we will continue implementing our new ISO/GMP food safety system across the business. Our Intermediate Bulk Container (IBC) facilities in Houston, Texas and Ede, Netherlands and RIPS facilities in Jubail and Riyadh, Saudi Arabia will receive ISO 9001 certi cation. We will enhance our focus plant initiative by incorporating CSI, percent recurring defect and system engagement into our plant selection process. We will supplement our Product Process Audits that are currently part of the focus plant program with root cause problem solving activities, quality dashboards and Kaizen events. Performance GRI 416-2 CORRECTIVE ACTION RATE* ORDER RELIABILITY RATE* 99.61 99.7 99.75 99.8 99.8 2 1.9 99.80 1.6 99.75 1.5 1.3 1.28 99.70 1.0 1.0 1 99.65 99.60 0.5 99.55 0 99.50 FY 2015 FY 2016 FY 2017 FY 2018 FY 2019 FY 2015 FY 2016 FY 2017 FY 2018 FY 2019 RIPS NA EMEA CUSTOMER COMPLAINTS* 1000 898 900 800 700 672 593 600 500 433 389 400 350 330 334 300 200 100 0 FY 2014 FY 2015 FY 2016 FY 2017 FY 2018 FY 2019 RIPS NA APAC EMEA Data is reported for Rigid Industrial Packaging & Services North America (RIPS NA), Asia Paci c (APAC) and Europe, the Middle East and Africa (EMEA) as indicated. *CAR measures customer complaints per 100,000 units produced **Order Reliability Rate de nes the rate of failure between orders produced and estimates non-compliance with voluntary codes, reported for RIPS North America only. No regulatory failures or resultant nes have been identi ed. Highlight Stories Zero-Leak Program In 2014, our CAR data indicated that leaks were the most common quality complaint from our customers. In response, we initiated a Zero-Leak Program to eliminate leaks from our products. When a leak complaint was received, it was escalated to the regional vice president and general manager and our engineering team was tasked with developing a concrete resolution to the problem and disseminate it to all facilities. Our focus on reducing leaks led to a 67 percent reduction in leak complaints from 2014 to 2018, as well as signi cant improvements in leakers in our Tri-Sure business. We are reevaluating and relaunching the program in 2020, complete with new metrics intended to help drive continuous improvement in leakers. © Copyright 2020 Greif. All Rights Reserved. 17 Greif Quality Day in Belgium In 2019 Greif’s RIPS facility in Ghent, Belgium took steps to further improve awareness on quality by conducting “Quality Day,” a four-hour workshop with a dedicated focus on quality in products, process and customer service. A total of 89 colleagues participated, going through speci c interactive sessions designed to provide participants a di erent perspective on quality and how it can be improved. Many colleagues reported that they gained better understanding of their speci c contributions towards quality and were reenergized to make a positive di erence improving overall customer satisfaction. This initiative will be promoted in the rest of EMEA with the hope of implementation in more countries in 2020. Real-time Quality Management Greif’s CorrChoice facilities, part of our Paper Packaging & Services (PPS) business, have implemented a set of tools that enable us to monitor and correct for potential quality issues in real-time. The tools allow us to set alerts for a variety of factors that may impact quality, such as temperature and material storage capacity, and correct any deviations before they fall out of speci cation. This ability allows us to reduce waste, track potential recurring deviations and avoid long production runs of products that would not meet our customers’ expectations. As part of our Zero Defect System, our production lines are lined with ultrasonic sensors that are able to detect any separation or variation that may occur during production, such as di erences in caliper spacing and weights of paper. The system allows us to track defects as they move down the production line, remove only defective products and recycle the scrap. 18 DELIVERING SUPERIOR CUSTOMER SERVICE Customer Service Excellence Leading through service, reliability and creating a customer-centric culture. Why Customer Service Excellence Matters Customer Service Excellence 2019: 103-1, 103-2, 103-3 For over 140 years, customers have relied on Greif’s industrial packaging to ship their most important products. They depend on our business acumen and ability to quickly and reliably provide quality packaging. Our value and technical expertise have set us apart from our competitors for over a century. We focus on meeting our customers’ expectations, a key aspect of Greif’s vision of, in industrial packaging, be the best performing customer service company in the world. We are committed to nding the best ways to serve our customers. Governance All Greif businesses manage customer service daily. Our practices and policies are managed through our Customer Service Excellence (CSE) Team, led by our Chief 43 Administrative O cer. The team is comprised of 10 representatives from various business units and regions within Greif. The team meets monthly to discuss customer service initiatives, while tracking progress on Customer Satisfaction Index (CSI) and Net Promoter Score (NPS)—our measures of customer satisfaction and likelihood of a customer recommending Greif to others. Our CSE Team partners with all global business units to share best practices, improve communications, Customer Service Excellence drive processes, engage cross-functional leaders and develop a curriculum and Award Winners training to bolster our colleagues’ skills and behaviors related to providing exceptional customer service. Honoring our facilities that demonstrated best-in-class customer service performance throughout 2019. Our CSE Team is supported by our Global Commercial Excellence team that we formed in 2016. The team was formed to provide better structure and alignment to sales, communications, market research and pricing functions. This structure also allows us to better organize around the key markets that Greif serves, ultimately improving our ability to address the unique needs of each customer we serve. Across Greif, we view feedback collected from our NPS survey as an opportunity to address our customers’ concerns and provide corrective actions when necessary. Through this approach, we work with our customers to create improvement plans addressing their concerns. As a result of these engagements, we are focusing on improving our communication with our customers, proactively engaging them so they have the time to respond to communications appropriately – one of the seven skills we are teaching our colleagues through training. We are also evaluating the quality of our sales visits through analysis and coaching sessions by sales leaders. Our sales account managers are more prepared than ever to address our customers’ needs and ensure quality visits with our customers. Additionally, we directly engage customers via Product Lunch N’ Learns—informal events to provide training and information about our products, as well as build relationships with our customers. In 2019, we began rolling out facilitated CSE training for all Greif professional colleagues, including colleagues that joined us as part of the Caraustar acquisition. Every six weeks, these colleagues focus on one of seven unique CSE skills, each of which is followed by an online knowledge check. As each colleague advances in the program, peers provide feedback to each other, reinforcing learning on a daily basis and helping to instill the customer service culture we are working to achieve. This training is o ered in 19 languages and provides our customer service professionals with the skills and tools they need to provide the best service possible to both internal and external customers. By the end of 2020, 100 percent of our professional colleagues will have fully completed the training. In 2020, we will continue to build Customer Service Excellence into our everyday behaviors via development programs and by using NPS and CSI results to inform how we provide service to our customers, including enhancing our understanding of the industries our customers serve. We will begin developing facilitated CSE training for our manufacturing colleagues, building on the success and learnings of the professional colleagues program. Performance CUSTOMER SATISFACTION INDEX 100 87.8 89.8 85.9 81.9 80 72.5 60 40 20 0 FY 2015 FY 2016 FY 2017 FY 2018 FY 2019 19 NET PROMOTER SCORE 75 61 60 57 50 47 47 46 45 40 42 39 30 15 0 NOV 2015 MAY 2016 NOV 2016 MAY 2017 NOV 2017 MAY 2018 NOV 2018 MAY 2019 NOV 2019 Highlight Stories Dempsey Award for Customer Excellence Each year, Greif's Dempsey Award is presented to a Greif business unit that achieves a CSI score of 95 or greater, an NPS of 55 or more and demonstrates best in class customer service performance throughout the year. The award formally honors the business, function or team within Greif that exhibits the greatest performance aligned to our values and vision. For 2019, the FPS business in APAC received the Dempsey Award for Customer Service Excellence for achieving a CSI score of 95 and NPS score of 72 while also increasing sales volume by 13.4 percent in a very competitive market of over 500 other potential suppliers. The largest customer in the battery powder segment has named FPS APAC as the best supplier of the year four times in a row and one of the largest listed companies in Singapore awarded the team its Excellent Supplier certi cation in August. During the 2019 Colleague Engagement Survey, teams in China FPS were 91 percent © Copyright 2020 Greif. All Rights Reserved. engaged and the teams in Vietnam were 71 percent engaged. The FPS APAC business was selected from the 43 winners of the 2019 Greif Customer Service Excellence Award. Those businesses each achieved a CSI of 95 or greater, an NPS of 55 or more and demonstrated “best in class performance.” FPS APAC demonstrates there is a direct link between our customer service metrics, customer loyalty, colleague engagement and pro table growth. Huayou Cobalt Supplier of the Year In November 2018, Greif’s Flexible Products & Services (FPS) business in China was named the “Excellent Supplier of the Year” by Huayou Cobalt for their commitment to understanding and delivering upon, the exact needs of their customer. Greif supplies three Huayou Cobalt plants with a variety of big bag products. This award is the latest achievement in a partnership that started in 2013 and we look forward to continuing in the future. Customer Collaboration for Improved Performance Greif partnered with one of our global key accounts to resolve ordering process challenges and operational ine ciencies. Greif’s Global Supply Chain team, Warminster, Pennsylvania facility and Global Account Lead partnered with the customer’s Operations Excellence and Logistics teams to design and pilot a simple-to-use Kanban process that triggers production only when product is needed. Within the rst three months of implementation we achieved zero stock-outs, a seven day lead-time reduction and a 25 percent reduction in inventory. The new process has also simpli ed ordering, improved visibility of customer demand for more stable production runs and improved Greif’s relationship with the customer. 20 Reducing Our Footprint As a global manufacturer, it is our obligation to understand and work to minimize our environmental impact. Whether in our operations or along our supply chain, our sustainability agenda works to create sustainable value for our customers, the environment and Greif stakeholders. AGreif’s 2019 CDP Score 11.0% Emissions Intensity 17 ISO14001 Certi ed Reduction Facilities Demonstrating excellence in carbon management, governance, strategy and best Against our 2014 baseline in support of our We take our responsibility towards practices, and outperforming the overall and 2020 goal. environmental standards and regulations North American average CDP score of C. seriously and implement systems to manage our obligations. © Copyright 2020 Greif. All Rights Reserved. 21 REDUCING OUR FOOTPRINT Environmental Management Systems Demonstrating our commitment to our regulatory obligations. Why Environmental Management Systems Matter GRI 307: 103-1, 103-2, 103-3 Following the various environmental laws and regulations applicable to our business is an integral part of Greif’s ongoing operations. Our environmental management systems and collaborative relationships with regulators enable us to proactively and e ciently demonstrate to our stakeholders our deep understanding of the complex regulatory obligations we are subject to, while illustrating our ability to consistently meet them. Governance In 2011, Greif implemented our proprietary Compliance Management System (CMS) to allow us to track and monitor our compliance with certain laws and regulations, 17 including environmental compliance related to emissions, energy, water and waste in our facilities. CMS is administered by our Environmental Health and Safety (EHS) Team, led by our Vice President of EHS and Operations for North America with support from our EHS Director and regional managers supporting each of Greif’s four operating regions. Environmental compliance within our Paper Packaging and Services (PPS) operations is managed by two dedicated EHS professionals. ISO14001 Certi ed Facilities Greif is a diverse, complex global manufacturer subject to a wide range of EHS We take our responsibility towards environmental standards regulations that may impact our organization in a variety of di erent ways. Across and regulations seriously and implement systems to our organization, we use a variety of tools and processes to appropriately manage manage our obligations. geographic and business speci c needs, however all of our global environmental management systems are administered under a consistent set of principles. All Greif facilities globally have an environmental management system that is supported by a compliance management software. All required compliance tasks are linked to an escalation process to ensure they are fully and accurately completed on time. Escalations can go as high as our CEO, if necessary. Audits are performed to con rm that work is completed and facilities remain in compliance with all required regulations. CMS is accessible to all Greif facilities worldwide. All Rigid Industrial Products & Services (RIPS), Container Life Cycle Management and Delta facilities in the United States and Canada use CMS to manage environmental compliance tasks. Management at each of these facilities leverage CMS to track progress on upcoming regulatory tasks and deadlines. As deadlines approach, CMS sends noti cations to facility managers reminding them of their obligations. If progress on a task is not made in a timely manner, noti cations are escalated through Greif’s EHS Team, ultimately reaching the CEO, if necessary. Each task follows a standard escalation protocol and facility management is incentivized to minimize escalations. Legacy Caraustar sites will continue to operate their own compliance systems in 2020. Caraustar’s legacy systems provide their facilities the same tracing, management and escalation capabilities as Greif’s CMS. Both legacy Caraustar and Greif facilities in North America supplement their compliance management systems through Dakota, an advanced EHS compliance and risk management software that tracks new and upcoming regulations applicable to each facility’s unique pro le. Dakota improves our ability to assess our readiness to comply with upcoming regulations. Greif began using Dakota in our RIPS business unit in 2018 in conjunction with third-party audits to determine additional resources and support that is needed at each facility to better manage their unique environmental risks. Through 2019, 16 third-party audits have been conducted and 10 more are planned for 2020. Legacy Caraustar facilities have been using Dakota since 2010 to support both third-party audits and manage compliance tasks. In these facilities, colleagues, that will be using Dakota to manage compliance tasks, will receive two days of training on how to use and fully complete tasks in Dakota. Since 2018, Dakota has been used to perform quarterly compliance audits to better manage environmental risks. In 2018, we introduced a monthly task to all Greif facilities globally to report waste data in an e ort to improve the e ciency, accuracy and reliability of our waste data. In 2019, we worked to further improve how we collect and report our waste data by o ering as-needed training to facility teams on best practices for collecting and inputting data, sharing best practices for organizing and reviewing data and educating on identifying gaps and potential errors in data. These e orts were taken as part of a larger e ort to improve the support and communication we provide to each facility to best set expectations for environmental management and reduce the risk of falling out of compliance with any of our obligations. In 2019, Greif was not subject to any nes of material signi cance to the organization. We are actively taking steps to prevent any equipment or materials that may introduce compliance risks to our facilities from entering our doors. In 2019, we introduced two programs in support of this objective. The New Chemical Request form must be submitted and approved by our EHS team prior to any new chemical being approved for use in our operations. The review assesses the potential for the requested chemical to create hazardous waste, impact air emissions or otherwise jeopardize Greif’s compliance with regulations. Similarly, any new piece of equipment that Greif is considering installing at any of our facilities must undergo an Equipment Pre-Acceptance Review (EPAR) to assess the overall environmental, quality, health and safety of equipment prior to being approved for purchase and installation. In 2019, 100 EPAR’s were completed. In RIPS North America any material or process change is subject to a Management of Change (MOC) review. The reviews assess potential commercial, EHS, plant, quality and regulatory impacts of the change prior to being implemented. In 2019, 12 MOC reviews were completed. Our global Flexible Products & Services (FPS), PPS and RIPS production facilities manage quality, safety and environmental standards through certi cations such as OHSAS, ISO, FSSC and SQF. Our PPS operations maintain ABI, FSC, OSHA, PEFC, SFI and PEFC certi cations. Globally, 17 sites have achieved ISO 14001 certi cation. 2020 will see continued growth and sophistication of our environmental compliance practices. We will pursue ISO 14001 certi cation for our Naperville, Illinois facility. To support continued growth and enhancement of our compliance programs, we will add additional EHS managers with the goal of providing more facility-level support and consistency in implementation. Within our PPS operations, we will implement Dakota at our mill in Riverville, Virgina and all CorrChoice facilities and expand our use of Dakota at our Massillon, Ohio facility to include air compliance and spill prevention, control and countermeasures by the end of 2021. 22 REDUCING OUR FOOTPRINT Climate Strategy, Energy & Emissions Driving operational change in a changing world. Why Climate Strategy, Energy & Emissions Matters GRI 302: 103-1, 103-2, 103-3; 305: 103-1, 103-2, 103-3, Greif integrates our climate strategy into every facet of our operations to ensure we are doing everything we can to reduce emissions and combat climate change. We create our products as e ciently as possible, implement energy and emissions projects throughout our operations and engage with partners across our value chain to further extend our impact beyond our walls. In addition to being part of our responsibility as a global manufacturer, our climate e orts give us a competitive advantage. Governance AWe integrate energy e ciency throughout the organization. Greif includes energy and emission reduction targets in incentive structures, ensuring emissions reduction strategies align to compensation programs. Energy e ciency is a factor in capital expenditure decisions. All Greif colleagues are eligible for awards and recognition related to energy reduction. Since 2010 Greif has maintained a Global Greif’s 2019 CDP Score Energy Team, currently consisting of 25 members, that is responsible for coordinating energy and emissions reduction projects throughout the company. In Demonstrating excellence in carbon management, 2019, we restructured the team to place an increased emphasis on including governance, strategy and best practices, and outperforming regional leadership to better engage and identify energy opportunities within each the overall and North American average CDP score of C. business unit and include legacy Caraustar facilities. This change in structure has allowed us to streamline our energy roadmap process to focus on and invest in the business units and facilities that have the most impactful energy opportunities. Whereas previously each facility was responsible for developing their own roadmap, regional leadership is now responsible for collaborating with each business unit to identify energy reduction and e ciency opportunities. Five of our production facilities have achieved ISO 50001 certi cation for energy management. In 2019 we implemented 84 energy e ciency projects, resulting in $2,715,453 of savings across our organization. These projects commonly include replacing equipment and updating processes that reduce energy demand, such as replacing ovens, boilers and adjusting water temperatures and implementing energy e ciency practices, such as lighting and HVAC replacements and upgrades. For more information about our energy e ciency projects, please see section C4.2 and C4.3b of our CDP response. A large focus in 2019 was fully integrating legacy Caraustar facilities into our energy and emissions reporting. Throughout the year, we met with representatives from each facility to educate them about our energy and emissions initiatives and learn more about their energy use. The ultimate goal of this engagement was establishing the right data collection processes to enable us to include these facilities in our reporting, which we are proud to say we are now able to do. This was a critically important accomplishment, as our legacy Caraustar facilities now account for 45 percent of our energy consumption and emissions impact globally, signi cantly changing the scale of our impact and adaptation and mitigation activities that are appropriate for our business. We continued to implement our Energy Procurement Policy in support of procuring more renewable energy and monitored the progress of our renewable energy credit (REC) program in North America. We also continued to evaluate power purchase agreements and evaluate renewable energy programs that are available to us in North America, EMEA and Latin America. We continue to engage our colleagues in our climate strategy. In 2019 we launched our Serious About Sustainability colleague engagement program in North America aimed at sharing more detailed energy information with our colleagues for the facilities where they work and identifying both projects and everyday opportunities to impact our energy use. Facilities that signed up to the program participated in a three-month competition to reduce energy usage. The three winning facilities received a certi cate and catered lunch in recognition of their e orts. We are excited to continue o ering and expanding this program in 2020. In 2020, we will continue to complete energy e ciency projects, supported by our energy roadmaps, and report the savings resulting from those e orts. In collaboration with our colleagues in the Soterra Land Management business, we will explore additional carbon o set opportunities that may be available as a result of our land management operations. In Rigid Industrial Packaging & Services (RIPS) North America, we will evaluate new energy programs, such as energy as a service, to accelerate energy and emissions reduction activities. Finally, 2020 is the last year of our current energy and greenhouse gas goal, but not the end of our commitment to reduce our environmental impact. In 2020, we will set and announce a new 2030 climate goal. As part of the process, we will take science-based target guidelines under consideration and evaluate our ability to commit to a goal that will be approved by the Science Based Target Initiative. Goals & Progress In 2016, Greif announced our current energy and emissions goal: 2020 Goal: 10 percent reduction in energy and greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions per unit of production, from a scal 2014 baseline. Progress: As of the end of scal 2019, we achieved an eleven percent emissions reduction per unit of production decrease from a scal 2014 baseline and were even compared to our reduction in energy per unit of production baseline. 23 Performance FY 2014* FY 2015 FY 2016 FY 2017 FY 2018 FY 2019 Energy*** Total Energy Consumption (MWh) 3,228,000 3,057,000 3,009,000 3,058,000 3,103,200 5,398,000 % Reduction in Energy per Unit of (Baseline year) 6% 1.8% 3.1% 4.2% 0.0% Production % Reduction in Emissions per Unit of (Baseline year) N/A 2% 8.4% 10.3% 11.0% Production** GHG Emissions (Metric Tons)*** Scope 1 362,300 322,500 345,700 367,700 376,700 675,900 Scope 2 (Location-based) 496,000 438,600 446,700 416,000 415,900 614,200 Scope 3 251,500 221,900 2,927,000 3,089,000 2,867,090 4,403,000 Total 1,109,800 983,000 3,719,400 3,872,700 3,659,600 5,693,100 Notes: 1. Source: Greif 2019 CDP Climate Response 2. Emissions data accounts for CO2, CH4 and N2O. 3. Scope 3 emissions takes into account upstream transportation and distribution. In 2017, scope 3 was expanded to include purchased goods and services, capital goods, fuel and energy related activities not included in Scope 1 and 2, including waste generated in operations, business travel, employee commuting and end of life treatment of sold products. Data based on legacy Greif Facilities only. 4. 2019 GHG Veri cation Statement *To standardize emissions and inform year-over-year progress toward our 2025 goal, our 2014 emissions data has been restated to correct several facilities’ eGRID regions. Total does not include 246,000 metric tons of CO2e from biogenic sources. **Our percent reduction in emissions per unit of production dropped from FY 2015 to FY 2016 due to increased fugitive emissions from our Riverville, Virginia, paper mill and total emissions from our Massillon, Ohio, paper mill. Updated emissions and global warming potential factors also contributed to this change. Data based on legacy Greif facilities only to maintain comperability with 2014 baseline. ***Data includes Greif legacy and Caraustar legacy facilities. Highlight Stories Advancing Renewable Energy Renewables, such as biomass, solar and wind energy, will play a major role in addressing the challenges of climate change over the long term. We are committed to testing and expanding the use of renewable energy technologies across our global operations when doing so is economically viable and in the best interest of our stakeholders. Across our global operations, we have installed over 6,800 solar panels capable of 1.84 million kilowatt hours of solar production and annual savings of $120,000. Due to our continued investment, renewables now account for 12 percent of Greif’s energy use. In North America, we have installed more than 2,000 solar panels in seven facilities, delivering 640,000 kilowatt hours (kWh) of energy and saving more than $100,000 annually. In 2016, three of our largest Brazilian plants began sourcing their energy partly through renewable resources. In 2017, we expanded the program to © Copyright 2020 Greif. All Rights Reserved. three additional plants in Brazil, reducing emissions by 70 percent and saving $1.4 million USD annually. In April 2017, Greif’s Shanghai RIPS facility completed installation of solar panels, converting 15.4 percent of the facility’s electricity to a renewable source and saving over $16,000 USD annually. Throughout our China operations, we source renewable energy through 4,800 solar panels via energy purchase contracts. Our Turkey FPS operations produce over two million kWh of energy through wind turbines and windmills. 24 Energy E ciency in Production Greif recently made a large scale investment in a new blow molding machine used to manufacture Greif’s plastic jerrycans at our Casablanca, Morocco plant. The new machine uses up to 30 percent less energy than older generation machines while also delivering signi cantly higher productivity levels. The new equipment increases production capacity by up to 25 percent for our oneto ve-liter bottles and is designed to optimize and reduce raw material usage, extending the environmental bene t of the machine beyond energy use. The team in Morocco also implemented other energy e ciency projects such as eliminating air leakages in our plastic and steel plants, replacing hydraulic extruders with electric ones on four machines, upgrading old equipment and replacing DC motors with AC motors on several blow molding machines that help to signi cantly reduce our energy consumption. Transitioning to Electric Forklifts As part of our overarching goal of having more e cient and sustainable equipment, in 2018 we began transitioning our eet of forklifts from being powered by combustion gasoline to electricity, which reduces our forklift emissions approximately 50 percent. Through 2019, we replaced approximately 400 forklifts, approximately 27 percent of our eet, resulting in a 1.1 metric ton emissions reduction. Due to the success of the program, and in support of our overall Renewable Forklift Policy, the program will continue to be rolled out globally in 2020, beginning with our North America facilities. In addition to the environmental bene ts, the transition provides a safer working environment for our colleagues by reducing the need to keep containers of gasoline in our facilities. Replacement of Boiler with 10% Energy E ciency Improvement Greif’s paperboard mill in Fitchburg, Massachusetts was operating a boiler that was initially installed to support two paper machines. The boiler was oversized for the mills operating needs and as a result was not operating as e ciently as possible and causing reliability problems. In 2019, a new boiler was purchased to allow for improved steam e ciency and reliability. Due to these improvements, the new boiler is expected to generate 15,811,200 kWh and $324,000 savings annually. Emission Reduction Credits (ERCs) In an attempt to lower Greif’s emissions of air pollutants such as Nitrogen Oxides (NOx) Volatile Organic Compounds (VOCs), Greif’s paperboard mills in Los Angeles, California and Fitchburg, Massachusetts replaced equipment with more energy e cient technology that reduces air pollutants. Operations in Massachusetts, alone, saved 96 tons of NOx and 27 tons of VOCs in a single year. The updates also allowed Greif to take advantage of Cap-and-Trade programs in California and Massachusetts that provide ERCs for similar activates. In 2019, Greif was awarded $1,037,100 in ERCs through these programs. 25 REDUCING OUR FOOTPRINT Water Optimizing the use and improving the quality of water in our operations. Why Water Matters GRI 303: 103-1, 103-2, 103-3; GRI 306: 103-1, 103-2, 103-3, 306-1 As global concerns over water scarcity rise, Greif is at risk of higher water supply costs and potential shortages in water-stressed regions. Ensuring water consumption is responsibly managed and water is properly treated and returned to its sources helps to alleviate potential water supply shortages, supports the environmental health in the communities in which we operate while also leading to operational e ciencies, lowering operating costs and minimizing regulatory risk. Governance Greif’s Environmental Health and Safety (EHS) Policy provides global guidelines for water conservation to improve water e ciencies in existing operations and 78.4% incorporate water management in planning for future projects and technology investments. Each Greif facility is expected to manage water locally in accordance with our EHS policy with supervision and support from Greif’s EHS team regarding compliance obligations and best practices for water use, treatment, and recycling. Local management teams are incentivized to improve water e ciencies and quality, reduce water withdrawal to minimize impact to local sources, maintain regulatory Reduction in Biochemical compliance and reduce costs related to water. Oxygen Demand Historically, 90 percent of Greif’s water use and impact has been from our two Paper Our e orts in water quality have allowed us to already meet Packaging and Services (PPS) containerboard mills in Riverville, Virginia, and our 10% reduction by 2025 goal. Massillon, Ohio. In February 2019, Greif completed the acquisition of Caraustar Industries, adding 106 additional PPS facilities to our operations, including 12 additional paper mills. Collectively, our mills still account for at least 95 percent of the water use and impact in our organization. Greif’s Riverville, Virginia, Tama, Iowa, and Baltimore, Ohio mills are equipped with on-site water treatment facilities and return water directly to local sources. Our Massillion, Ohio mill has an on-site water facility that returns treated water to a municipal water treatment plant. Our remaining mills return water to municipal treatment facilities before it is returned to local sources. Beginning in 2020, our Baltimore, Ohio mill will be diverting direct discharge wastewater to the local municipal treatment plant. Taking this step will reduce our overall withdrawal by 400,000 gallons a day. Regardless of where water is treated, we continually look for opportunities to reuse water in our operations before it is treated and returned to sources, reducing our overall water needs. While Greif’s water impact is predominately in our PPS operations, we do take steps to curb water use across all of our operations, particularly in water-stressed regions in Latin America, Africa and the Middle East. In these facilities, and across all of our operations, we reduce water pressure where it is higher than needed, replace leaky valves, and collect and use rainwater when possible. Our Rigid Industrial Packaging & Services (RIPS) facility in Riyadh, Saudi Arabia implemented many such measures in an e ort to reduce and recycle their wastewater, ultimately resulting in a 32 percent reduction in waste to land ll from their facility. Please see our Waste page for more information on their achievement. In 2020, we will continue our e orts to recycle and reuse water throughout our PPS operations and spread best practices regarding water consumption. Goals & Progress In 2017, Greif announced a 2020 goal of 10 percent reduction in kilograms of biochemical oxygen demand (BOD) per metric ton of production, from a 2014 baseline of 1.47, in our PPS operations. Our 2017 materiality process led to the creation of new 2025 goals and restating our BOD goal as a 2025 goal. In 2018, we reevaluated our historical water use and BOD data to con rm our baseline and assumptions to support continual improvement related to water. Through this process, we restated our 2014 BOD baseline to 1.40. 2025 Goal: Reduce BOD discharged in kilograms by 10 percent per metric ton of combined production from the Riverville and Massillon mills using the 2014 restated baseline by the end of scal year 2025. Progress: Since 2014, we have reduced BOD per metric ton of production by 78.4 percent. Our signi cant progress against our BOD goal was enabled by the installation of a wastewater treatment facility at our Massillon mill. Completed in July 2017, the project led to modest improvements in 2017 and far surpassed expectations in 2018. These bene ts continued to be realized in 2019. In 2020, we will continue to track our progress in reducing BOD while controlling speci c water use in our mills and reevaluate our goals to include both our legacy Greif mills and Caraustar mills that are now part of our organization. 26 Performance Data GRI 303-1, 306-1, 306-5 WATER* FY 2015 FY 2016 FY 2017 FY 2018 FY 2019 Water Withdrawal (Thousands of cubic 8,365.4 8,420.2 9,666.3 9,360.8 13,864.4 meters)* Surface Water 9,242.7 8,630.0 10,266.8 Ground Water 423.6 730.7 3,597.6 Rainwater Wastewater Municipal Water† Wastewater Discharge (Thousands of cubic 8,255.1 7,961.4 8,983.2 9,316.2 11,853.5 meters)** James River** 8,788.8 8,907.1 7,949.5 City of Massillon^ 191.6 407.1 424.0 Tuscarawas River^ 2.8 2.0 2.5 Sweetwater Creek^ 0.0 Cobb County WWTP^ 844.9 Cincinnati Metropolitan Sewerage District^^ 37.6 Milwaukee Metropolitan Sewerage District^^ 349.0 Los Angeles County Sanitation District WWTF^^ 196.8 Three Mile Creek^ 0.0 Mobile Wright Smith WWTP^ 337.2 Village of Baltimore WWTF** 0.0 West Branch Paw Paw Creek** 146.7 San Jose-Santa Clara Regional WWTP^^ 288.1 Tacoma Central WWTP^^ 6.9 City of Fitchburg WWTP^ 322.6 Iowa River** 291.8 Cherry Lake** 597.8 Iowa Tributary** 58.0 Biochemical Oxygen Demand (Thousands of 2,080.4 1,050.4 890.4 204.2 3508.3 kg) Total Suspended Solids (kg) 489,334 546,857 465,098 349,003 875,790.8 Phosphorus (kg) 5,517 5,728 4,991 6,617 4,708.0 Production (MT) 637,000 665,000 690,000 713,336 1,729,062 Consumption Rate (m3/MT) 13.1 12.7 14.0 13.1 8.02 Notes: 1. 2015 to 2018 data is from Greif’s two paper mills, one of which is located in Riverville, Virginia, and the other in Massillon, Ohio. Historically, these two paper mills accounted for more than 90% of Greif’s global water footprint. They draw from the James River and onsite water wells, respectively. 2019 data includes 12 former Caraustar mills that were acquired and integrated in 2019. All 2019 data is full year data. Quality of wastewater discharged from our mills meets permit requirements. No discharged water was used by another organization. WWPT = Wastewater Treatment Plant. *Evaporative losses estimated **Treated with primary clari cation, secondary clari cation and aeration before direct discharge ^ Treated with wastewater pre-treatment including soluble BOD removal ^^ Treated with wastewater pre-treatment with solids only. † Greif does not currently track withdrawal of municipal water. 27 Highlight Stories Improving Our Wastewater In 2017, Greif’s Massillon, Ohio mill completed construction of a water treatment facility to signi cantly reduce the biological oxygen demand (BOD) of the plant’s discharge water before being returned to the municipal treatment plant. High BOD levels promote bacteria growth, release odors and must be controlled using chemicals. Since installing the treatment facility, we reduced BOD discharged to the municipal system by over 96 percent, contributing to our 2025 BOD reduction goal. This also eliminated several chemicals that were previously needed to control bacteria. E ciency in Water Treatment © Copyright 2020 Greif. All Rights Reserved. at our Los Angeles Mill Greif’s Los Angeles mill is located in a water-stressed area. Water used in the mill is drawn from a regional water aquifer that supplies both industrial and residential sources and recollects and treats water for redistribution. Because water supplied by the aquifer must serve multiple purposes, including use by community members, returning clean water back to the supplier is critically important. Wastewater generated in our Los Angeles mill is rst treated through a HydroFloat to be cleansed, then is run through a tertiary treatment step to treat the water even further. As a result of our processes, wastewater generated from our mill is clean enough to reintroduce into a fresh water tank. Currently, our processes reintroduce or o set 10 percent of incoming water; it is our intention to continue to save water so that we are not a contributor – in any capacity – to water shortages in our community. 28 REDUCING OUR FOOTPRINT Waste Working towards a zero waste to land ll organization. Why Waste Matters GRI 301: 103-1, 103-2, 103-3; GRI 306: 103-1, 103-2, 103-3 We reduce our operational waste, waste to land ll and packaging waste to e ciently drive our business. By working to reduce waste, we lower material use and transportation costs and provide the lighter weight and more cost-e ective products that our customers value. Our waste reduction e orts lead to reduced emissions in our operations and throughout our supply chain and contribute to addressing global environmental waste issues. Through our waste e orts, we work to establish closed loop and zero waste processes that support a transition to a more circular economy. Governance 31 The regional leaders and the global leader of our Global Waste Team, comprised of 22 representatives from each business unit, meet monthly to discuss our waste reduction strategies. The Waste Team holds facility management accountable for managing and reducing waste. Waste reduction is integrated into the annual performance reviews of select facility management. Greif implements colleague Facilities Achieving Zero Waste engagement strategies to encourage production colleagues to focus on waste reduction. Greif’s Environmental Health & Safety (EHS) policies, procedures and to Land ll training govern the labeling, handling, storage and transportation of hazardous waste. Our e orts to reduce waste are global, with each facility working towards our 2025 goal. In 2017, we established trackable waste stream data, identi ed most plant-level waste streams and set waste baselines for each facility globally. In 2018, we built on this critical step in managing waste by creating a task within our Compliance Management System (CMS) requiring all facilities to report waste data monthly–the rst globally required sustainability task we have implemented in our CMS. In addition to improving the accuracy of our waste data, we are now able to more e ciently collect and take action on the information. In 2019 we continued to reinforce best practices for reporting waste data into CMS to improve the consistency and reliability of our data. Waste data is now subject to veri cation by our internal audit team, who began evaluating waste data as part of internal audits. Beginning in 2020, each facility will be required to submit documentation in support of their data when reporting into CMS and we will begin tracking and reporting waste data for the facilities that have been added to our network through the Caraustar acquisition. In 2018, we introduced the Best Demonstrable Practice (BDP) program to expand our waste reduction e orts. Through the program we established and promoted a small number of scalable waste management activities in select facilities that could be expanded throughout Greif. These initiatives included recycling personal protective equipment, co ee grounds and single-use co ee pods and implementing absorbent laundering. Collectively, these three programs removed 47 tons of waste from land ll in 2018. In 2019, we established a detailed waste matrix to help us understand more detailed sources of waste in each of our facilities. In 2020, each of our facilities globally will complete the matrix, which will allow us to identify the actions most relevant to each facility and continue to expand the impact of the program. Our continued progress on the BDP program, and our ability to better understand our waste streams at a more detailed level, is in part a result of improved collaboration and transparency with our waste collection partners. Each of our colleagues are integral to managing our waste. To reinforce their role and importance of managing waste, we introduced a colleague engagement program called Serious about Sustainability to educate colleagues about waste impacts in their local facilities and provide them an opportunity to share opportunities they see to help Greif reduce waste. Management at each facility is responsible for collecting and identifying the highest impact opportunities that come out of the sessions and continuing to work with their colleagues to implement them. We conducted the program in 33 facilities in North America in 2019 and will continue to introduce it to more in 2020. In 2018, Greif entered into a partnership with Operation Clean Sweep (OCS), an organization dedicated to keeping plastics out of the environment, to expand our commitment to reducing plastic waste. Through the partnership we commit to conducting audits in our facilities to evaluate our plastic resin handling operations and implement good housekeeping and pellet, ake and powder containment practices. Through 2019, we have conducted OCS audits in our Hazleton, Pennsylvania, Houston and Mt. Sterling, Kentucky facilities. We report audit ndings through our quality system to address root causes and implement corrective actions based on the results. Our partnership will continue in 2020 with an audit of our Lavonia, Georgia facility. In 2020 we will continue to share and implement best practices across facilities. We will train our legacy Caraustar facilities on reporting waste data through CMS in order to begin tracking and reporting on their progress against our 2025 goals. We will continue to quantify the costs associated with our waste streams and identify ways to better manage them, including introducing per unit waste cost KPIs. To engage colleagues outside of our manufacturing facilities, we will pilot an o ce waste program at our main corporate campus, further demonstrating our commitment to reducing waste across our entire organization. 29 Goals & Progress In 2018, we created a goal to divert 90 percent of waste from land lls from all Greif production facilities globally by the end of scal year 2025. Progress: FY2019* TOTAL FACILITIES FACILITIES WITH 90%+ DIVERSION FACILITIES WITH 99%+ DIVERSION FACILITIES WITH ZERO WASTE TO LANDFILL Total 145* 82 35 31 North America 55 26 4 3 Europe 62 45 28 27 Latin America 16 4 0 0 Asia Paci c 12 7 3 1 *Data accounts for production facilities only. Globally, we diverted 85 percent of total waste from land lls in 2019. In 2020, we will evaluate waste data for facilities obtained as part of the Caraustar acquisition, reevaluate our goals in consideration of those facilities and begin including those facilities in our waste reporting. Performance GRI 301-3, 306-2 WASTE STREAM FY 2015 FY 2016 FY 2017 FY 2018 FY 2019 Hazardous Waste Total Waste to Land ll 220 146 527 1,639 2,428 Waste to Land ll 220 146 527 1,292 1,161 Incinerated (no energy 347 1,267 recovery)**** Total Non-Land ll* 413 411 7,109 14,105 20,725 Incinerated (with energy 1,202 3,372 4,073 recovery)** Composted*** 0 0 Recycled† 10 39 2,011 7,604 14,084 Reused†† 399 1,513 651 Reclaimed††† 25 194 217 366 Miscellaneous (Non Land ll) †††† 378 372 3,303 1,399 1,551 Total Hazardous Waste 633 556 7,638 15,744 23,153 Non-Hazardous Waste Total Waste to Land ll 41,174 45,199 57,403 54,594 33,837 Waste to Land ll 41,174 45,199 57,403 54,110 33,380 Incinerated (no energy 485 457 recovery)**** Total Non-Land ll* 40,827 51,904 161,796 257,219 184,357 Incinerated (with energy 945 2,054 2,950 recovery)** Composted*** 15,277 35 15,784 Recycled† 9,764 9,129 111,861 231,997 141,217 Reused†† 33 128 17,147 11,641 12,321 30 FY 2015 FY 2016 FY 2017 FY 2018 FY 2019 Reclaimed††† 14 5 13,187 9,439 9,847 Miscellaneous (Non Land ll)†††† 31,016 42,642 3,379 2,052 2,239 Total Non-Hazardous Waste 82,001 97,103 219,199 311,813 218,194 Total Waste (Hazardous & Non82,634 97,660 226,835 327,557 241,347 Hazardous) Notes: 1. In our 2015 Sustainability Report, we reported our waste stream for our RIPS North America business unit only. In 2016, we expanded our data collection to all of our North American business units. In 2017, we expanded our data collection to all global operations. Data does not include facilities obtained as part of the acquisition of Caraustar. Legacy Caraustar facilities will be incorporated into waste reporting in 2020. *Non-Land ll: Includes chemical-physical, incineration with energy recovery, recycled, reused, reclaimed, composted and fuels blending treatment methods **Incinerated (with energy recovery): Treatment method involving the combustion of solid waste that results in energy capture. ***Composted: Treatment method involving the biological decomposition of solid or liquid operational waste. **** Incinerated (no energy recovery): Treatment method involving the combustion of solid waste that does not result in energy capture. †Recycled: Treatment method involving the separation, preparation and sale of recyclable materials to end-user manufacturers. ††Reused: Treatment method involving the use of a material for its original purpose multiple times. †††Reclaimed: Treatment method involving the process of extracting and converting materials from recycled materials to be used again. †††† Miscellaneous (Non Land ll): All other treatment methods not mentioned previously, including Deep Well Injection and On-Site Storage, which were reported separately in 2017. EARTHMINDED LIFE CYCLE SERVICES ESTIMATED DRUMS AND IBCS RECONDITIONED* FY 2015 FY 2016 FY 2017 FY 2018 FY 2019 Recycled 780,500 1,045,093 904,883 849,498 831,576 Steel Drums 553,300 689,513 534,369 571,355 509,884 Poly Drums 196,300 277,672 212,272 161,447 243,186 IBCs 30,900 77,908 158,242 116,696 78,506 Reconditioned 4,076,700 3,808,242 3,218,885 3,258,848 3,533,358 Steel Drums 3,356,200 3,072,348 2,565,052 2,713,025 2,699,393 Poly Drums 374,100 375,307 321,188 244,497 194,011 IBCs 346,400 360,587 332,645 301,326 639,954 Total Collected 4,857,200 4,853,335 4,136,828 4,105,936 4,348,706 Steel Drums 3,909,500 3,761,861 3,099,633 3,284,380 3,193,049 Poly Drums 570,400 652,979 535,460 405,944 437,197 IBCs 377,300 438,495 501,735 415,612 718,460 Virgin Materials Saved by 77,773 71,573 63,111 63,587 76,400 Reconditioning and Reuse (Metric Tons)** Steel 70,198 65,743 56,200 57,664 66,900 High-Density 5,742 5,830 5,150 4,243 5,900 Polyethylene Wood 1,833 1,761 1,680 3,600 Virgin Materials Saved by 12,076 17,402 18,755 16,644 16,145 Recycling (Metric Tons)*** Steel 9,657 13,288 13,463 12,697 10,918 High-Density 2,297 3,817 4,580 3,385 4,888 Polyethylene Wood 122 297 712 562 339 Notes: 1. Virgin Materials Saved by Reconditioning and Reuse data has been restated to standardize units across regions *Estimated Drums and Intermediate Bulk Containers (IBCs) Recycled and Reconditioned (North America and Europe, Middle East and Africa) **Estimates based on the quantity of reconditioned packaging and average packaging speci cations (North America and Europe) ***Estimates based on the quantity of recycled packaging and average packaging speci cations (North America and Europe) 31 REBU – ESTIMATED FIBCS RECONDITIONED (EMEA)* FY 2015 FY 2016 FY 2017 FY 2018 FY 2019 Total FIBCs Collected 316,324 275,732 Reconditioned 224,418 179,912 Recycled 91,906 95,820 Total Virgin Polyethylene 727.6 634.2 Saved (Metric Tons)** Virgin Polyethylene Saved by 516.2 413.8 Reconditioning and Reuse (Metric Tons)** Virgin Polyethylene Saved by 211.4 220.4 Recycling (Metric Tons)*** *Estimated Flexible Intermediate Bulk Containers (FIBCs) Recycled and Reconditioned (Europe, Middle East and Africa) **Estimates based on the quantity of reconditioned packaging and average packaging speci cations (Europe) ***Estimates based on the quantity of recycled packaging and average packaging speci cations (Europe) Highlight Stories Reuse of Exterior Paint in RIPS North America Greif’s North American Rigid Industrial Packaging & Services (RIPS) operations collect excess exterior steel drum paint to reuse to paint the bottom of the drums. Termed “Greif Gray,” this recollected paint reduced paint waste 22 percent in 2017. Reducing VOC’s Through Use © Copyright 2020 Greif. All Rights Reserved. of Water-Based Exterior Paints Since 2009, Greif has been committed to using water-based exterior paints in our operations, rather than high volatile organic compound (VOC) exterior paints. Through transitioning to water-based paints, Greif reduced VOC-based emissions by 40 percent. Greif’s Alsip, Illinois facility reduced VOC content by approximately 2 lbs./gallon. In RIPS China, ve Greif facilities have successfully tested their capabilities to use water-based exterior paints and some have begun transitioning customers to the products using them. In 2020, we will begin testing the use of water-based RDL liners in our products to further reduce the VOC impact of our products. 32 Greif Riyadh Reduces Waste by Addressing Wastewater In 2017 Greif’s RIPS facility in Riyadh, Saudi Arabia was the largest contributor of waste to land ll in the EMEA region with 36 percent of waste going to land ll. Through analyzing their waste streams, the facility team determined that this was primarily due to wastewater that, if treated properly, could be recycled. Despite limited infrastructure support, availability of recycling partners and transportation options, the team worked to establish a process to internally separate and clean water to acceptable levels for local transporters and recyclers, and consistently return water to them. Through these measures, the team reduced the oil content of the water from 60 ppm to 1.5 ppm and decreased their waste-to-land ll to four percent by the end of 2019. Due to Saudi Arabia’s own water scarcity, the impact of this initiative goes far beyond Greif’s operations. Through initiatives like this Greif has the ability to set a precedent for other businesses and, ultimately, impact the local community. Turning Waste to Fuel In 2019, Greif collaborated with one of our waste management partners to identify materials used in our operations that could enter their engineered fuels program, which aims to identify materials that have a high heat value such as plastics, oils and absorbents, that can be used as fuel in certain applications that require signi cant amounts of energy, such as cement kilns. Through this collaboration, polypropylene lids used on Greif’s ber and plastic drums were identi ed as strong options to enter this program. Since these lids cannot be recycled, Greif’s Naperville, Illinois facility collected and palletized 3.3 tons of lids to enter into this program. Without this program, the lids would have been sent to land ll. This program is available to Greif North American facilities. Achieving Waste Reduction through Customer Service Excellence In 2019, Greif’s RIPS facility in Sweden received a customer complaint that Jerry cans were being damaged during unpacking because the plastic lm used to wrap the pallets was too tight and di cult to remove. In response, the facility tested a number of lm alternatives that were easier to remove and posed less risk of damaging the cans and ultimately selected an alternative that reduced the use of lm by 48 percent, saving 7500 kg of materials annually. The transition also led to $12,000 USD savings and a 22,000 kg emission reduction. In order to scale the project, the team has updated the standard operating procedure for using similar lms and have worked with our procurement team to update the supplier and material for the lm. 33 REDUCING OUR FOOTPRINT Biodiversity Understanding and protecting the habitats where we work. Why Biodiversity Matters GRI 304: 103-1, 103-2, 103-3 Greif focuses on biodiversity to help preserve a healthy environment. By taking actions to understand and manage the potential impacts of our operations on ecosystem services and biodiversity, we position ourselves to preserve natural resources. Our land management operations and services are dedicated to conserving the Earth’s biodiversity and ecosystem functions to promote wildlife and habitat restoration. Governance GRI 304-3 Since December 2008, Soterra, LLC, our subsidiary engaged in Land Management, has adhered to the principles of the Sustainable Forestry Initiative (SFI) and followed 244,600 Best Management Practices de ned by each state for its managed timberlands. Soterra forests provide timberland habitat for wildlife, forestry management services and serve as a space for recreational land use. Soterra operates in the Southeastern United States, managing 244,600 acres of timberland in Alabama, Louisiana and Mississippi. In 2019, Soterra forests sequestered over 1,707,000 tons of CO2. Acres Under Management Soterra’s harvesting, and overall forestry practices, are guided by SFI and stateWe practice sustainable forestry across our operations speci c Best Management Practices to ensure we adhere to all regulatory in Alabama, Louisiana and Mississippi and o er services to requirements and apply the highest standard practices throughout our operations improve land management practices across industries. whenever possible. We apply a sustainable harvest methodology, which is based on a 30-year rotation, to our timberlands. Prior to harvesting any site, we conduct a thorough review of the area to assess the overall biodiversity value of the site and identify any protected animal or plant species that may be impacted by the harvest. If any areas within a site are identi ed as having a high biodiversity value or serve as a habitat to a protected species, appropriate bu er zones are established to ensure that land or species is not impacted and, if necessary, preparation and harvesting methods will be altered accordingly. To-date, no Soterra managed lands have been identi ed as having high biodiversity value, however since 2008, eight species of concern have been identi ed within our geographic areas and protected when necessary. Safety is among our top priorities. Our colleagues and subcontractors operate heavy machinery when harvesting and can drive 40,000-50,000 miles annually assessing and maintaining our land. We maintain a Safety Team within Soterra that is responsible for building and maintaining a strong safety culture throughout our operations. We are proud to say that we have not had a reportable incident in Soterra’s operations in over eight years. All of our operational policies, including our safety policies, extend to subcontractors that perform work on our behalf. For more information about our safety practices and priorities, please visit Health & Safety. We work to improve our land management practices through technology whenever possible. In 2007 we began implementing geographic information systems to track our planting, maintenance and harvesting activities. The technology allows us to better understand the geography of our properties, age of the trees on our land, treatments that have been applied and make better harvesting and overall land management decisions. We consider ourselves a pioneer in using drone technology to evaluate the health of our forests. Drones allow us to e ciently scan our acreage and identify potential threats to the health of our forests such as pest outbreaks. We use drones to accurately estimate acres to help e ciently plan resources for chemical application and planting as well as reducing the safety risk for colleagues by eliminating the need to physically traverse di cult terrain to map acres via GPS. To date, our drone pilots have mapped over 56,000 acres of company and private land. Historically, Soterra’s revenue has primarily been from the harvest and sale of timber from our timberlands. While still a core part of our business, in recent years we have made a conscious shift to invest resources in our consulting and recreational lease services. In addition to diversifying our revenue, expanding these services ensures we will be able to continue harvesting our timber in a sustainable manner and only harvest mature timber. The growth of our consulting services also allows us to expand our impact beyond our own land. Since 2016, we have regenerated more land and planted more trees on privately owned land than we have on our own acreage – over 18,000 total acres planted on private land. Through our consulting engagements, we work with land owners to implement the same responsible land management practices, and leverage the same technology, that we do for our own managed acreage. We partner with land owner associations, such as the Alabama Forest Owners Association, Forest/Lamar Forest Owners Association, and St. Helena Forestry Association, to host eld days where land owners can learn about best practices to implement on their own land. We are also working to diversify through forest byproducts. In 2015, we began collecting and repurposing pine straw – the fallen needles from evergreen trees – as landscape cover that can be used by home gardeners. In 2020, we will continue to diversify our services to maintain our ability to run our business with sustainable practices. We will continue to grow our consulting services and identify new byproducts that can be sold without impacting the health of the land. We will improve our land management practices by setting new standards for herbicide and fertilizer application and diversifying the type and quality of seedlings that we plant, providing many bene ts to our land including healthier trees, higher harvest yields and more sustainable harvest volume, which will also provide greater carbon capture, in the future. We will place an increased focus on forest density, further ensuring that we protect that land and its biodiversity as we harvest in the future. 34 Highlight Stories Pollinator Habitat Improvement Study The year 2013 marked the conclusion of a multi-year pollinator research project that occurred on Greif/Soterra LLC timberlands in south Mississippi. The study was conducted in conjunction with the Pollinator Partnership and NAPCC—the world's foremost experts on pollination issues —to learn how pollinators impact wildlife food availability on timber landscapes, the added value of hosting honey bees and beekeepers on the landscape and to discover the best management practice for ecosystem services on forest landscapes. The study produced some interesting recommendations for sustainable timberland management practices that should bene t timberland owners, pollinator species, local wildlife and ecosystems alike. Greif is committed to its © Copyright 2020 Greif. All Rights Reserved. sustainable land use platform, and will help distribute any resulting publications to industry partners, regulators and members of the academic community globally to in uence positive environmental management in timberland systems. In 2013, the Sustainable Forestry Initiative (SFI) recognized Soterra LLC and the Pollinator Partnership with its coveted Conservation Leadership Award for this research. The state of Louisiana also recognized the e orts on the program by declaring a state-wide Pollinator Week in the spring of 2018. As of 2019, Soterra LLC continues its support for education, outreach, conservation and scienti c research relating to the importance of pollinators in our ecosystem by maintaining its involvement in the Pollinator Partnership as an active Board of Directors member. To learn more, please see our article in Bee Culture Magazine. Rain Barrel Program Receives Stewardship Environmental Award In 2018, Soterra established a partnership with the National Estuary Program to use donated Greif drums to collect rainwater. Through the program, each drum is out tted with a rain barrel conversion kit to help store, capture and put rainwater to good use. The barrels are installed in impoverished areas with historically high utility costs that are also prone to ooding and water pollution associated with excessive water runo . By the end of 2020, 200 drums capable of providing 260,000* gallons of water will be installed in the community. In 2019, we received an Environmental Stewardship award from Partners for Environmental Progress in recognition of the program. *According to the United States Environmental Protection Agency, a rain barrel saves 1,300 gallons of water during peak summer months. 35 Addressing Risk Protecting our business, colleagues and stakeholders from risk is paramount to our sustained success. The principles that guide our business ensure we’re engaging in ethical behaviors and partnering with organizations that share our values, contributing to how we mitigate risk. 290 290 sites around the 17,000 Colleagues 39 SOX Audits Completed world Our people—principled, intelligent and We work to ensure our internal policies are Our global reach is near you. reliable—rea rm our reputation for integrity implemented and our operations are every day with their every action. compliant with relevant regulations. © Copyright 2020 Greif. All Rights Reserved. 36 ADDRESSING RISK Ethics & Compliance Creating a culture The Greif Way. Why Ethics & Compliance Matters GRI 102-11; 102-16; 205: 103-1, 103-2,103-3; 205-1; 205-2; 206: 103-1, 103-2, 103-3; 412-2 The principles set forth in The Greif Way establish a company culture rooted in ethics and compliance. We believe that behavior in uences culture and culture determines performance, which is why establishing positive behaviors is important to our business. Every day, our colleagues implement these principles which are formalized through the policies that govern our organization. Governance Greif maintains a broad set of ethicsand compliance-related policies: Anti-Bribery Compliance Policy Data Privacy Policy Anti-Harassment and Anti-Discrimination Policy Economic and Trade Sanctions Policy Antitrust/Competition Compliance Policy Fair Treatment of Others Policy Child Labor Policy Human Rights Policy Code of Business Conduct and Ethics Insider Trading Policy Corporate Governance Guidelines Records Management and Retention Policy Each policy is managed, reviewed and implemented by a diverse team comprised of representatives from human resources, nance and legal. We regularly review our policies and revise them as necessary to strengthen language, address emerging risks and communicate best practices. Greif leverages training and audits to actively implement our policies. We require each of Greif’s over 2,300 manager-level and above colleagues to complete policy training. We actively encourage our colleagues to anonymously report ethics and compliance violations through our Ethics Hotline. The Hotline is administered by a third-party provider to protect the anonymity of our colleagues and is available 24 hours a day, seven days a week. In 2019, we took steps to make the Hotline more accessible to our colleagues and improve our governance and oversight of potential ethical violations. Information on the Hotline, and related policies, is included in the Code of Conduct – which all colleagues receive training on – through our internal colleague portal and via posters at each facility. Complaints can also now be reported via an online portal or e-mail as well as by phone globally. All reported incidents are sent to our newly formed Ethics Committee, chaired by Greif’s General Counsel, for review. Incidents are reported to the Audit Committee of Greif’s Board of Directors quarterly. In 2019, we investigated and resolved 90 percent of the complaints from our Ethics Hotline. To validate our compliance to our established policies, we conduct annual Sarbanes Oxley Act (SOX) audits for all of our facilities that are material to our nancial statements. Prior to the Caraustar acquisition in 2019, Greif had 175 auditable entities. With Caraustar now integrated into Greif, we now have 265. In 2019, 39 of these entities were in-scope for SOX testing. In addition to required SOX audits, Greif conducts risk-based audits at each of our facilities at least once every ve years. Each year we ensure that facilities accounting for at least 75 percent of our revenue receive risk-based audits. Facilities that are audited are identi ed through a multilayered process that includes management surveys, in-person discussions, approval by executive leadership and reports to Ethics Hotline. Following this process, in 2019 we completed 24 risk-based audits. We continue to strengthen our internal control environment as we leverage shared processes across locations. As part of the Caraustar integration, we performed a full review of their ethics and compliance policies and training to con rm their practices were well-aligned to Greif’s expectations. Based on this review, we provided Insider Trading Training to key Caraustar colleagues, but found no other signi cant gaps in their legacy ethics and compliance practices. As Caraustar fully integrates into Greif’s training and business systems, legacy Caraustar colleagues will be expected to complete ethics and compliance training in accordance with Greif’s policies. In 2019, we implemented a clawback policy, which allows for the possibility to recover colleague incentives in the case of a breach in compliance, to better protect our nancial interests and further promote ethical behaviors. In addition to continuing to work towards our 2025 goals, in 2020 we will continue to promote ethical behavior internally and throughout the supply chain. We will publish an updated Code of Conduct that more clearly reinforces the key behaviors we desire our colleagues to demonstrate and launch updated Code of Conduct training in support of our 2025 goal. We will release an updated Supplier Code of Conduct that better outlines our business ethics expectations. Goals & Progress 39 In 2017, we established our rst ethics and compliance goals. By the end of scal year 2025 we will: Provide online training of the Greif Code of Business Conduct and Ethics to 100 percent of colleagues with access to computers SOX Audits Completed Provide training and information on the Greif Anti-bribery Policy to 100 percent of colleagues for whom training is relevant We work to ensure our internal policies are implemented Provide online training of the Fair Treatment of Others Policy to 100 percent of and our operations are compliant with relevant regulations. colleagues with access to computers, and provide accessible and traceable information to all colleagues In 2019, 78 percent of colleagues* with access to computers completed training on Greif’s Code of Business Conduct and Ethics. The training was fully transitioned to Greif’s learning management system, SkillPort, which allows for training to be more easily accessible and trackable. We developed and launched new Anti-bribery Training and began rolling it out to the organization. In 2019, 82 percent of eligible colleagues completed the training. In 2020, we will translate the training to four additional languages and transition the training to SkillPort. Together, these steps will allow us to provide the training in the primary language for more of our colleagues and improve the trackability of the training in support of our 2025 goal. In addition, 69 percent of colleagues for whom training is relevant received training on our Insider Trading Policy. *Excludes legacy Caraustar colleagues 37 ADDRESSING RISK Risk Management & Business Continuity Maintaining our commitments through di cult situations. Why Risk Management & Business Continuity Matters 102-11; Risk Management & Business Continuity: 103-1, 103-2, 103-3 Greif mitigates risks that may negatively impact our customers through risk management and our business continuity e orts. By focusing on e ectively managing our risks, we ensure quality in our products, safety of our colleagues and are able to maintain commitments to our customers. Governance 290 Greif assesses organization-wide risk through our formal Enterprise Risk Management (ERM) process, which considers all Greif business units and geographies. Risk information is identi ed and analyzed through Greif’s Risk and Content Monitoring processes by assurance providers across the organization, including Executive Leadership, Internal Audit, Legal/Compliance, feedback from 290 sites around the world customers and investor engagement and Greif’s Sustainability Steering Committee (SSC). The SSC monitors industry reports (i.e. World Business Council for Sustainable Our global reach is near you. Development (WBCSD) ESG Enterprise Risk Management Framework, WRI’s Assessing the Post-2020 Clean Energy Landscape, and CSSR’s Fourth National Climate Assessment), ESG ratings and rankings, energy pricing, evolving government regulations and programs, and holds formal relationships with ESG-speci c associations and NGOs, including WBCSD and the United Nations Global Compact, to identify emerging risks that may impact our business. Information from these groups, including long-term emerging risks, is provided to Greif’s Risk Leader Committee (RLC), led by Greif’s chief audit executive, and is comprised of members of Greif’s Executive, Business Unit and Strategic Business Unit Leadership teams and Greif’s director of sustainability. The RLC identi es, ranks, reviews and prioritizes risks in conjunction with Greif’s Audit Committee to determine the most critical risks based on potential impact and likelihood to occur. Each risk is evaluated for potential opportunities and reported to the Board quarterly for approval. Risks are evaluated by the RLC to develop plans for risk mitigation and opportunity capture. This committee meets quarterly. Climate-related risks and opportunities are integrated directly into our overall ERM process and considered alongside all information provided by assurance providers across the organization. Through this process, Greif has identi ed extreme weather events, raw material price and supply volatility and rising sea levels as our most signi cant climate risks. For more information regarding our climate-related risk governance, risks and opportunities, please see section C2 of our CDP response. Beginning in 2019, Greif began incorporating results from our internal Global Trends Report into our ERM process. Based on interviews with internal leaders and secondary research, the report identi es six global trends with particular relevance to our business: Companies are Becoming More Environmentally Friendly Digitization & Automation of Manufacturing Digitization of Supply Chain & Logistics Digitization of Enterprise Purchasing & B2B Selling Workforce Shortages, Surpluses & Skill Gaps Growth Opportunities Increasing in Emerging Markets In conjunction with other internal and external sources that are considered in our ERM process, the trend report improves our ability to forecast and plan for long-term trends that may impact our business in the future. For more information regarding our trends report, please see the Innovation section of our Sustainability Report. In 2019, Greif participated in a working session led by WBCSD to better understand how to consider and incorporate environmental, social and governance risks into our ERM process. Through the workshop, we discussed opportunities to better align risks that are communicated in our nancial reporting with our sustainability risks, improve the line of communication regarding enterprise risks between our RLC, Operations, Executive Leadership Team and Board and better incorporate our preparedness to respond to enterprise risks into our assessments. In 2020, we will be reviewing the recommendations that we developed from the workshop and the impact they may have to our ERM process. We will continue collaborating with WBCSD to evaluate our climate risks speci cally and have begun conducting a scenario analysis in support of that work. The ERM program is being updated to expand the risk identi cation process, enhance the risk assessment process, engage with other companies on ERM best practices and improve engagement and awareness. To improve our ability to respond to potential crises, we launched a Crisis Management Program in 2019. Greif partnered with a third-party mass noti cation system to launch an alert system capable of notifying and updating our colleagues via text message, phone call, email and smartphone app during emergencies and signi cant situations that pose danger or disrupt work operations. The system is also used to convene Greif’s Crisis Response Team, a team of executive leaders responsible for coordinating communications and response to crises and executing Greif’s Crisis Communications Playbook. The system is currently active for all legacy Greif facilities and colleagues in the United States and will be introduced to all global and legacy Caraustar facilities in 2020. Business Continuity Our We Got Chu program, established in 2017 in our Rigid Industrial Packaging & Services (RIPS) business, manages risk and business continuity through inventory and production redundancy capabilities, facility risk assessments and proactive labor relations. The program outlines a 25 step process to identify customer orders that may be impacted if a disaster impacts one of our facilities, identify alternative products that meet customer speci cations and facilities that are able to produce the products our customers have ordered. We conduct random mock disasters monthly to ensure the process is understood in the organization and can be implemented should a disaster occur. We have conducted 24 mock disasters since introducing the program. The program, and our associated Disaster Recovery Business Continuity policy, are reviewed annually. Colleagues from sales, customer service, operations, marketing and logistics administer the program in tandem with business unit leadership. 38 Greif’s global network of 290 locations allows us to manufacture identical products at multiple sites, giving us the exibility to shift production based on inventory, customer needs or in the unlikely event a shutdown would occur. This capability is enabled by centralized inventory management and our robust Sales and Operations Planning process (S&OP), which allows for visibility into raw and nished good materials across our facilities. Each facility multi-sources raw materials, ensuring production will not be interrupted due to delays or shortages from a supplier. Greif’s facilities undergo loss control engineering inspections by our property insurance company periodically. These inspections are conducted by engineers and focus on identifying risks to the facility, including those that may be caused by natural disasters, and ways to reduce and control those risks. We make capital investments in our facilities to mitigate the risks identi ed in these inspections. For example, Greif recently opened a new facility in Pennsylvania. During the site selection process, we evaluated the risk of ooding to ensure the new facility was not located in a ood zone. We also installed a custom designed sprinkler system to best protect the facility in the unfortunate event of a re. We also consider the risk of labor disputes to business continuity. We manage collective bargaining agreements on a two-to-three-year timeline, not simply when a negotiation must occur. Our senior leadership actively builds relationships with union leadership and members in each plant. This proactive approach ensures positive labor relations and business continuity. Greif has not experienced a work stoppage since 2014, when we experienced a labor strike and illegal occupation at a facility in Turkey. In response to the stoppage, Greif conducted in-depth focus groups with management and line colleagues to gain a deeper understanding of the issues that led to the strike and occupation. We implemented new compensation and bene t plans, safety processes, hiring practices and training to address the concerns raised by our colleagues and created a compliance manager position at the facility to help build and strengthen local relationships. From May 2014 to June 2015, Greif directly hired and unionized 1,300 workers. The workforce became the largest non-government direct hiring in our industry in Turkey–where most workers are hired as sub-contractors–and signaled a new approach to hiring in the country. During this period, we shifted production to other sites, ensuring we kept our customer commitments. We continue to build on our reputation as a model employer in Turkey. Turnover in the facility has reduced from 36 percent in 2014 to 10.3 percent in 2019. We recently implemented our Gallup Q12 Colleague Engagement Survey to create a formal forum for colleague feedback, including those in Turkey. To learn more, please visit Talent Attraction, Development & Retention. Highlight Stories Maintaining Our Commitments Through Natural Disasters In 2017, Greif’s North American operations were hit by hurricanes Harvey and Irma, resulting in $5.3 million of impact to our business. Despite the impact, our risk management and business continuity practices allowed us to meet our customer commitments during recovery without declaring force majeure. Greif supported our colleagues directly impacted by the hurricanes by continuing to pay wages during the week production was down, paying for hotels and rental cars and setting up a Wish List for colleagues in North America to purchase items for their peers. Greif also matched colleague cash donations to the Red Cross to support relief e orts, donating a match of $11,745. In 2019, a Greif facility that was previously part of Caraustar was forced to © Copyright 2020 Greif. All Rights Reserved. evacuate in advance of a hurricane. The facility ultimately was shut down for a week, however customer demand was able to be ful lled at other Greif facilities. 39 ADDRESSING RISK Security Protecting our people and products, and the data we are trusted with. Why Security Matters GRI 102-11; 418: 103-1, 103-2, 103-3; 418-1 Greif prioritizes the security of our assets—people, product and data. This includes the physical security of our facilities, ensuring the safety of our colleagues and maintaining a safe environment for our manufacturing assets. Data security protects our internal and customer data from cyber-attacks. Product security safeguards our customers' products throughout the supply chain, including shipping and transport. Governance Our data security practices comply with Sarbanes-Oxley, EU General Data Protection Regulation (GDPR) and Greif’s Records Management and Retention Policy. Greif’s Information Technology Team, led by our manager of Global IT Security, manages data security, which includes annual audits for IT control processes, quarterly reviews of data permissions and quarterly phishing simulations. At the center of our security operations is training. All colleagues with access to computers are required to complete quarterly cybersecurity training, receive quarterly newsletters promoting cybersecurity awareness and weekly security tips on topics ranging from password security to avoiding phishing scams, and participate in our annual Cybersecurity Month each October. Greif Executives receive updates through a cybersecurity dashboard that is shared with Greif’s Enterprise Risk Management Team and Board quarterly. The dashboard currently tracks our performance using the National Institute of Standards and Technology NSF maturity index score. Should Greif fall victim to a cybersecurity breach, we maintain an IT Services Cyber Incident and Response Plan and an IT Services Global Business Continuity Plan, which outlines our steps to quickly respond to and mitigate the impact of an incident. Greif received zero substantiated complaints concerning breaches of customer privacy and identi ed zero leaks, thefts or losses of customer data in 2019. To manage the physical security of our buildings, Greif installs tag readers and PIN codes locks at our facilities. We require a bill of lading for each shipment picked up from our facilities. Greif supports product security throughout our supply chain by o ering tamper-resistant closures. Since 2018 we have been working to implement ndings from a cybersecurity maturity assessment we conducted in collaboration with a third-party partner. In 2019 we continued to implement programs based on ndings from the assessment. We introduced annual online Cybersecurity and Awareness training to help improve our colleagues’ ability to identify and respond to potential threats and minimize risk in both digital and physical spaces. After completing the training, each of our colleagues must complete a quarterly checkup, ensuring knowledge is retained and put into practice. The training is mandatory for all colleagues with access to computers, including our Executive Leadership Team. To further comply with GDPR, we have conducted GDPR training for our colleagues in EMEA and began establishing a formal data classi cation framework. The framework will help us better understand, and ultimately manage, the personal information we store. In 2019 we established a three year cybersecurity strategy that we will begin implementing in 2020. The strategy will focus on implementation of multi-factor authentication, privilege access management, NxGenAV with EDR, and data classi cation framework, positioning ourselves to implement internet of things technology and continuing to train and educate our colleagues on current cybersecurity best practices. Highlight Stories FPS In Turkey Receives ISO 27001 Certi cation Since 2018, Greif’s Flexibles Products and Services (FPS) Turkey operations have been ISO 27001 certi ed, re ecting of our commitment to keeping Greif’s, and Greif’s customers, information assets secure. The certi cation demonstrates that the information security management system (ISMS) meets international best practices and shows the signi cant e orts made by FPS Turkey towards compliance with the General Data Protection Regulation (GDPR) in Europe. The certi cation builds on FPS Turkey’s impressive quality credentials, which include ISO 9001 certi ed Quality Management Systems, Grade AA BRC IoP Global Standard for Packaging and Packaging Materials Issues compliant Product Safety Management Systems and ISO 14001 compliant Environmental Management Systems. 40 Valuing Our People With more than 17,000 colleagues and operations around the globe, our success is dependent on our ability to protect, engage and develop talent in our organization and uphold human rights along our supply chain. 0.69 Lost Workday Case Rate 1.49 Medical Case Rate 92% Performance Development Review Down 47 percent since 2011. Down 57 percent since 2007. Completion Eligible colleagues completed their annual Performance Development review, reviewing their competencies and planning against their competency frameworks. © Copyright 2020 Greif. All Rights Reserved. 41 VALUING OUR PEOPLE Talent Attraction, Development & Retention Discovering and growing the workforce that will carry Greif into the future. Why Talent Attraction, Development, & Retention Matters GRI 401: 103-1, 103-2, 103-3; 404: 103-1, 103-2, 103-3; 404-2 Greif’s success hinges on our capacity to attract, develop and retain the greatest talent from around the world. Our talent management programs span the globe and ranges from recruitment to succession planning. Governance Greif’s talent attraction, development and retention programs are administered by our Global Talent & Learning team in line with our Global Talent Management 294 Strategy and philosophy. The strategy and philosophy set our global standards for performance management, training and development activities, recruitment and career planning. The Global Talent & Learning team executes programs in collaboration with regional representatives who are responsible for implementing programs in accordance with country-speci c laws and regulations and serve as an extension of the talent management team. We have a dedicated team of 55 LEAP Participants engagement champions who each completed a two-day training program to better equip them to drive engagement globally. Learnings from this training are Since 2014, 294 colleagues have participated in LEAP, our reinforced through monthly champions meetings. Our talent e orts are ultimately three-week leadership development program. overseen by our chief human resources o cer. In 2019, we created a Global Talent Center, to further improve our governance of talent management, acquisition, global learning, and diversity and inclusion and provide a more consistent, centralized approach to talent management for each region to apply to their local needs. Greif uses performance management as a platform to communicate colleague performance expectations, maintain ongoing performance dialogue and conduct annual performance appraisals. We enable the assessment and development of our colleague’s knowledge, attitudes, skills and behaviors through competency frameworks. All professional, clerical and administrative colleagues — approximately 21 percent of Greif’s workforce — participate in an annual Performance Development Review. The process consists of a selfand manager-evaluation of their performance against job-speci c competencies. In 2019, 92 percent of eligible colleagues completed Performance Development Reviews. Throughout 2019, we continued our pilot of a quarterly review process in Rigid Industrial Packaging & Services (RIPS) North America – an initiative that began in 2018 to promote more consistent performance feedback throughout the year – and added additional features to our technology platforms that support our processes. Colleagues are now able to track development progress via online tools as often as monthly, which provides greater visibility to reviews, promotes better on-going development conversations and provides exibility to capture development conversations. Our Performance Development Review process informs our succession planning, which is on a standard global cadence for director-level and above roles, ensuring we have an appropriate talent pipeline to enable our success in the future. In 2019, we enhanced our succession planning process with the goal of incorporating more touch points with our colleagues, improving the diversity of our talent pipeline and identifying development needs for high potential colleagues. The process is now supported by an annual talent calibration session with our Executive Leadership Team and Board review of our succession plan. Training and development are integral aspects of our development strategies. Our global Leadership Development and Training archive contains over 300 courses dedicated to educating our colleagues on topics ranging from computer literacy to job-speci c technical training. Any Greif colleague with access to a computer can access the courses through the Greif Learning Network, Skillport. Our network tracks required training to ensure compliance with internal policies and relevant regulatory requirements. We supplement our global training with regional programs that address relevant needs and are actively improving our practices to integrate compliance and code of conduct training into the system and making it easier for our colleagues to navigate. In 2019, Greif experienced a 60 percent increase in the number of unique users leveraging our learning management system. In 2020 we will continue to streamline and centralize our learning and development e orts by launching Greif University. Greif University will serve as a centralized hub for all across legacy Greif and Caraustar training programs. The launch will be supported by transitioning from Skillport to Workday Learning, which also allows for better integration with our performance development process. All new Greif colleagues hired in North America participate in an onboarding program that features 3060and 90-day touchpoints, Champions and Customer Service Excellence training, onboarding modules, job-speci c training (including manager training, when appropriate) and new hire focus groups. To strengthen the overall program, we created a manager onboarding guide, new hire onboarding guide and Workday hiring guide. In 2019, we launched the program in our Budapest o ce in support of our ambition to roll out the program globally by the end of 2020. 42 We continue to be proud of the success and growth of our internship program. Since being launched in 2018, we have hired over 45 interns and anticipate hiring 50 92% more in 2020. Internship opportunities are available in both our corporate and manufacturing facilities and focus on providing opportunities to participate in crossfunctional projects and observe how we operate and make decisions in our business. As part of our ambition to expand the program globally, in 2019, we expanded the program to EMEA and established partnerships with local universities to help identify candidates. Please see our Careers page for current internship Performance Development opportunities. Review Completion In 2019 we continued our company-wide internal colleague engagement survey Eligible colleagues completed their annual Performance using the Gallup Q12 survey. We conducted the survey in 16 languages and Development review, reviewing their competencies and achieved a 94 percent response rate across all of our colleagues. In 2019, we linked planning against their competency frameworks. improvements in colleague engagement to our key safety, customer service, nancial and human capital metrics to better understand the impact of colleague engagement on our business and drive continuous improvement. The results demonstrated that engaged colleagues drive greater pro tability and customer service index performance as well as reduced medical case rate and labor costs. We administered the new survey to our new colleagues that were previously part of Caraustar. In 2019, they participated in a separate wave of the survey to set a baseline and identify speci c areas of opportunity. Beginning in 2020 and going forward, legacy Caraustar colleagues will be integrated into the global process. In order to stay competitive and to show our commitment to our colleagues, we have expanded our colleague bene t programs. We are happy to now o er diabetes support, commuter & transit bene ts and a ordable legal care services to our United States based colleagues. As we look to the future, we hope to expand these bene ts globally. Goals & Progress In 2017, Greif established three Talent Attraction, Development, and Retention Goals: 100 percent of permanent colleagues will participate in regular performance development discussions by the end of scal year 2025. Using scal year 2017 baseline, increase average hours of annual training per colleague by 50 percent by the end of scal year 2025. 100 percent of colleagues will be covered by parental leave by the end of scal year 2025. Greif’s continuous improvement in talent attraction, development and retention enabled us to make great progress on our 2025 goals this past year. Almost all eligible colleagues receive some form of performance review, but in an e ort to continue to increase colleague participation in a performance review process, Greif will be aligned on one global performance management process beginning in 2020. We will continue to formalize our measurements and communicate progress annually. Thanks to the continued growth and accessibility of the Greif Learning Network, we are proud to announce we have surpassed our training goal by having increased average hours of annual training per colleague 175 percent from our 2017 baseline. We are looking forward to continuing to increase this number as we launch Greif University. Overall 56 percent of Greif colleagues globally are covered by a parental leave policy. In 2018, we implemented a Parental Leave policy in the United States which provides four weeks of paid parental leave for professional colleagues, including parents who adopt a child. Thanks in part to this, 100 percent of our professional colleagues in North America are covered by a parental leave policy. COLLEAGUES COVERED BY PARENTAL LEAVE Total 56% Asia Paci c 28% Europe 99% Latin America 100% North America 18% Performance GRI 401-1, 404-1, 404-3 FY 2015 FY 2016 FY 2017 FY 2018 FY 2019 New Colleague Hires 3,917 2,467 2,925 2,941 3,626 Colleague Attrition* 27.9% 21.8% 21.3% 24.3% 24.0% Training Hours per Colleague** Skillport (Greif Learning 2 2.6 5.5 Network) Leadership, Professional, 9.6 6 3.2 Production Colleagues Completing 90%^ 92 % 85% 92% Regular Performance Reviews^ *Attrition by region and length of service given as percent of attrition for scal year. **Average hours of training per unique participant. Data excludes safety training and local functional training. For more information on safety training, please see Health & Safety. ^Includes eligible professional, clerical and administrative colleagues. 43 Highlight Stories Developing Leaders In 2014, Greif established a three-week leadership development program designed to support high-potential colleagues develop leadership skills and career-advancement opportunities. In 2019, we continued to grow the program globally. Since inception, 294 colleagues have participated in our three-week course, including 28 in 2019. Greif Scholarship Program In 2007, Greif established a scholarship program to assist our colleagues’ children who plan to continue education in college or vocational school programs. Scholarship recipients are selected on the basis of nancial need, academic record, demonstrated leadership, participation in school and community activities, honors, statement of educational aspirations and goals, unusual personal and family circumstances and an outside appraisal. The program is administered by Scholarship Management Services, a division of Scholarship America. Scholarship Management Services is the nation's largest designer and manager of scholarship and tuition reimbursement programs for corporations, foundations, associations and individuals. Awards are granted without regard to race, color, creed, religion, sexual orientation, gender, disability or national origin. Selection of recipients is made by Scholarship Management Services. In no circumstance does any o cer or colleague of Greif play a part in the selection. Since 2007, 137 students from around the world have received scholarships. Greif Champions Coin As part of our continuous e orts to develop and engage our colleagues, in July 2019, Greif introduced Greif Champion Challenge Coins. Greif created coins for the top executives comprising our Leadership Council, including our CEO and executive leadership team. The program began by each of our leaders passing the coin to one of our colleagues and expressing recognition for a job well done using a speci c feedback model. Within one week, the recipient is expected to pass the coin to another colleague in recognition of a job well done and using the same feedback model. Overall, the coins changed hands more than 600 times in the rst six months of the program. Each time a coin changes hands, our colleague that passes the coin along describes the speci c situation and impact the recipient created through their behavior, allowing for further recognition from leadership. 44 VALUING OUR PEOPLE Health & Safety Protecting our colleagues’ right to work in a safe and accident-free environment. Why Health & Safety Matters GRI 403: 103-1, 103-2, 403-4 Colleague safety lies at the heart of our business and is our rst and foremost priority. Our colleagues deserve a workspace that supports their health and safety. Our e orts work to avoid close calls and prevent injury, particularly potentially serious and life changing safety events. Governance Our global Environmental Health and Safety (EHS) Policy provides the structure and standards that enable our safety culture. The policy is supplemented by business unit speci c EHS policies for all facilities, further strengthening our commitment to safety. Our Safety Leadership Team, led by our chief administrative o cer and comprised of representatives from each region and strategic business unit, manages our global EHS policy and is responsible for driving progress on policies, programs and initiatives to support a culture of safety at Greif. To ensure our policies fairly represent the entirety of our workforce, we maintain safety committees comprised of colleagues and management at all of our locations. Every two years, we conduct third-party audits at each facility to ensure compliance with all laws, regulations and policies. We use our Compliance Management System (CMS) to track health and safety tasks, including safety observations, incidents and close calls at the facility level. Our 20 global policies apply to all union and non-union colleagues in our workforce. Our Contractor Safety Policy makes provisions for the safety of our contractors. Our Serious Injury and Fatality (SIF) global workgroup was formed in 2016 to analyze industry research regarding SIF events and methods of advancing our program. Based on their work, we introduced the Life Changing Injury and Fatality Elimination (LIFE) program in 2017 to better understand and track close call and potentially life-altering, life-threatening and life-ending safety events. Through LIFE, we introduced our PIT-Pedestrian Policy to safeguard our colleagues against the dangers of lift truck operations, the event with the highest risk of a LIFE injury in Greif’s facilities. In 2018, we continued to focus on reducing potential LIFE events in our facilities by addressing suspended load-related safety, lockout-tagout procedures and enhanced machine guarding and focusing on safety behaviors that are most important in each of our facilities. To improve LIFE incident tracking, we incorporated reporting LIFE program incidents and close calls into our CMS. We use this data to increase our knowledge and awareness of the conditions and behaviors that lead to at-risk situations, including developing a risk index to focus future decision making. In 2019, we used our LIFE data to identify global and regional leading indicators and develop safety action plans to address the highest risk injury events. In 2020, we will re ne LIFE into a holistic LIFE Fatalities program. Through the program, we will replace the risk index with an improved LIFE metric and implement corrective actions tracking for LIFE events. Our colleagues in Rigid Industrial Packaging & Services (RIPS) North America use our Commitment-Based safety program to highlight the value of daily safety. They identify potential safety hazards within their job function, articulate and rank their safety performance and make pledges to take responsibility for their actions. In 2020 we will launch a program to help our colleagues apply a similar thought process to non-routine tasks. The program, called Take Two, will encourage our colleagues to “take two minutes” to think about the process, personal actions, equipment and potential hazards involved when they are performing a task that is not part of their normal work day. We will also place an increased focus on safety risks our colleagues may face at home that are relevant to the workplace, and vice versa. Formal training continues to be critical to our safety initiatives. In 2019, we delivered 17.77 hours of safety training per production colleague, an increase from 16.28 in 17.77 2018. In 2019 we introduced a Global Safety Scorecard and visual standards to help promote consistent safety metrics globally. The Scorecard standardizes metrics within each business unit to ensure we are evaluating safety similarly across all of our operations, but considers businessand facility-speci c safety risks that drive Average Safety Training Hours global metrics. Each production colleague in our business receives safety Our CorrChoice facilities continued their tradition of convening safety leaders from training, ensuring our safety culture is understood and their operations at their Annual Safety Summit in 2019. Historically, the Summit has practiced every day. been used to re ne the safety charter, establish safety priorities and share best practices. The 2019 summit was used to reinforce the fundamentals of safety within CorrChoice, including load securement, hand safety and identifying and reducing LIFE events. To promote a continuous focus on safety, Paper Packaging & Services (PPS) facilities, apart from our CorrChoice facilities, hold weekly safety calls attended by all General Managers, senior leadership and other select colleagues from each facility. During the call, each facility is responsible for reviewing any incidents that have occurred over the past week and there is rotating responsibility to share at least one best practice for promoting safety with the group. These calls have led to the adoption of innovative safety risk reduction and elimination solutions in every operation. Historically, Caraustar has shared Greif’s commitment to safety among their facilities. As part of their integration into Greif, Caraustar’s legacy safety policies and procedures were evaluated in comparison to Greif’s to identify similarities and di erences in support of aligning all PPS facilities to a single set of health and safety policies. In 2020, this review will be completed, and all PPS facilities will follow a single program that incorporates best practices from both programs while still accounting for facility speci c risks that must be addressed to protect the safety of our colleagues. For example, Caraustar had established a program that provides our colleagues with access to an athletic trainer to help them prevent and recover from both non-work-related and work-related injuries that may result from the physical demands of the job and at home. This program is currently in use at nearly half our mills and several select PPS facilities. Additional sites are under consideration for 2020, as is a virtual athletic trainer program, which is currently being piloted in some facilities. The Industrial Products Group adopted an innovative solution that utilizes technology to analyze standard activities to identify ergonomic risks and modify workstation con gurations and practices to eliminate conditions that can contribute to injury. 45 Goals & Progress Greif has two Health & Safety goals: Reduce Medical Case Rate (MCR) by 10 percent annually to achieve a MCR Zero in the long term. Every plant will have a collaborative environmental health and safety committee consisting of both management and workers by the end of scal year 2025. Performance As of 2018, each Greif plant had a safety committee comprised of managers and colleagues. We are proud of the results that have come from our vigilance in health and safety. We experienced an increase in MCR in 2019, which has prompted a renewed focus on safety across our organizations, speci cally at facilities where we are seeing increased safety incidents. Within these facilities we have implemented focused safety facility plans and reinforced goals and actions on the largest safety risks, and the risks that have led to incidents at each facility. Within our PPS operations, our two-day 8 Fundamentals of Safety Leadership training was delivered to over 250 leaders. All PPS facilities have shared our focus on separating mobile equipment and people, a continual focus from our pedestrian safety priority. Our Mill Group partnered with a third-party to document and deliver training on all major lockout procedures at each of the facilities. While we have experienced an increase in MCR in 2019, we have experienced a 57 percent reduction in MCR since 2007, improving from 3.51 to 1.49. Since 2011, LWCR has improved from 1.3 to 0.69, a 47 percent reduction. We remain steadfast in our commitment to safety and reaching the goals we have set for ourselves. We believe our overall safety strategy and culture of safety that we have created in our organization is e ective and provides the foundation we need to continue reducing MCR and LWCR in the coming years. We believe our Commitment Based Safety, Behavior Based Safety Observation and Take Two programs are critical in strengthening our commitment to our safety culture. EMPLOYEE HEALTH & SAFETY MCR LWCR *MCR, or Medical Case Rate, measures the number of recordable injuries per 100 full-time colleagues in a 12-month period. **LWCR, or Lost Workday Case Rate, measures the number of recordable injuries resulting in lost workdays per 100 full-time colleagues in a 12-month period. *** 2019 data includes Caraustar for only March forward – no data included for rst 4 months of scal year. Highlight Stories Chairman’s Safety Excellence Award Each facility that achieves an MCR of less than one and third-party EHS audit score of 90 percent* or greater wins the Chairman’s Safety Excellence Award. Globally, 101 of our approximately 250 production facilities received the award in 2019. *Sites receiving rst time audits are only required to achieve a score of 80 percent to qualify Employee Assistance Program © Copyright 2020 Greif. All Rights Reserved. (EAP) All Greif colleagues in Canada and the United States have access to an employee assistance program (EAP). Greif’s EAP is a con dential work-based intervention program o ering colleagues and their families informational services designed to enhance emotional, mental and general psychological well-being. The program provides preventive and proactive interventions for the early detection, identi cation and/or resolution of both work and personal problems that may adversely a ect performance and well-being. These problems and issues may include but are not limited to, relationships, health, trauma, substance abuse, gambling and other addictions, nancial problems, depression, anxiety disorders, psychiatric disorders, communication problems and coping with change. 46 Celebrating Long-Term Accident Free Operations Greif’s long-term health and safety aspiration is to achieve zero accidents at all of our facilities worldwide. While we recognize the challenge of this aspiration, many of our facilities have achieved multiple years of accident free operation, including: RIPS Amatitlán, Guatemala – 12 years accident free RIPS Västerhaninge, Sweden – 11 years accident free RIPS Mandra, Greece – 11 years accident free PPS Augusta, Georgia (formerly a Caraustar facility) – Eight years accident free PPS Dalton, Georgia (formerly a Caraustar facility) – Seven years accident free The achievements of these, as well as countless other zero injury facilities in 2019, provide strong models in support of our aspiration of zero accidents at all of our facilities worldwide. 47 VALUING OUR PEOPLE Human Rights & Fair Labor Practices Upholding fundamental rights in our operations and throughout our supply chain. Why Human Rights & Fair Labor Practices Matters GRI 102-41; 405: 103-1, 103-2, 103-2, 103-2, 103-2, 103-2, 103-2, 103-3 As a manufacturing company, Greif participates in a labor-intensive industry. Our commitment to upholding international human rights and fair labor practices is directly aligned with our commitments to the health and safety of our colleagues. We maintain these standards and expectations throughout our supply chain. We are committed to working with responsible supply partners to ensure our customers’ con dence in our responsible sourcing and labor practices. Governance Gold Greif maintains human rights and fair labor practices in accordance with the UN Global Compact Principles and International Labor Organization’s Declaration on Fundamental Principles and Rights at Work. We enforce various policies to manage our commitment to these Principles internally and in our supply chain. This includes our Anti-harassment, Child Labor, Code of Business Conduct and Ethics, Equal Recognition from EcoVadis Employment Opportunity and Diversity, Fair Treatment of Others, Human Rights and Supplier Code of Conduct policies. Greif’s local HR teams leverage risk Received for our commitment to Corporate Social assessments, age and legal working status veri cations, awareness training, Responsibility, placing us in the top four percent of all localized gender equality procedures and whistleblower procedures to implement assessed suppliers. these policies in our operations. To enable our colleagues to anonymously report potential human rights violations, we publicly post our global Ethics Line in all facilities. Each complaint is instantly directed to a regional vice president so it can be addressed appropriately. We investigated and resolved 90 percent of complaints. The remaining complaints are under ongoing investigation. 45 percent of Greif’s colleagues engage in collective bargaining agreements (CBA). Each CBA is independently managed in each region with our Human Resources and Legal teams providing oversight. For further information on Greif’s approach to labor relations, please see Risk Management & Business Continuity. In 2019, we reorganized our Human Rights and Labor Practice team to better support progress towards our goals. This team is led by EMEA’s Regional Human Resources Director with support from members of the global human resources community representing each region and business unit, including Caraustar. In 2019 we began integrating our new colleagues from the Caraustar acquisition into our Human Rights and Labor Practice policies and programs, with the aim of completion in 2020. Gender diversity is a critical component of Greif’s commitment to fair labor practices. Greif’s Women Network was formed to promote gender diversity in the organization and support progress against our women in management goal. Formed under the executive sponsorship of our CEO, the 70-plus member organization was founded with the mission of creating a diverse and inclusive network working together to inspire, connect and develop women for the success of Greif and a vision to support and enhance the experience and contributions of women at Greif, and to elevate diverse perspectives across the organization through greater gender parity. In 2019, the network began embedding diversity actions into Greif’s succession planning e orts and working to impact a rmative action plans, placement goals and proactive recruitment outreach e orts. Through 2020, the network aims to expand membership to over 100 members, including 25 percent males, establish local satellite chapters globally and educate Greif on the value of the network. In 2020 we will partner with a third-party to conduct a global human rights review intended to create a pragmatic, consistent program to identify human rights and labor risks in all our facilities, identify mitigating actions and implement best-practice actions and solutions in line with our commitments to the UN Sustainable Development Goals, UN Global Compact, ILO Declaration on Fundamental Principles and Rights at Work and Guiding Principles on Business and Human Rights framework. Once complete, the Human Rights Review process will be embedded into our operations and will provide an ongoing mechanism to ensure we are consistently auditing and improving our human rights and labor practices. Goals & Progress Our three Human Rights & Fair Labor Practice goals are: 100 percent of our operations will be subject to internal human rights reviews, measured on a rolling cycle, by the end of scal year 2025. 100 percent of colleagues will be trained in human rights policies and procedures by the end of scal year 2025. Using scal year 2017 baseline, increase the proportion of women in management positions by 25 percent by the end of scal year 2025. In 2019, we continued to develop and implement action plans towards the achievement of our goals. We further de ned our Human Rights Review roadmap in support of beginning to develop our internal review program in 2020. We developed content for human rights training and will nalize an implementation plan in 2020. With the support of Greif’s Leadership Council and Greif Women’s Network, we developed a gender diversity work stream in support of our women in management goal. The work stream will begin in 2020, focusing on key activities to promote Greif as an attractive employer for women, train our Human Resources team to interview female candidates, eliminate gender bias from our interview processes and establish new recruitment partners to gain access to more diverse candidate pools. In 2019, we incorporated Caraustar in the scope of our human rights and labor practice commitments. In 2020, we will re-evaluate our goals to account for our new colleagues. 48 Advancing Circular Economy Through process, materials and manufacturing innovations, we work in collaboration with our stakeholders to reduce the environmental impact of our products and work towards a more circular economy. Gold Recognition from 31 Facilities Achieving Zero 89.8 Average Customer EcoVadis Waste to Land ll Satisfaction Index Score Received for our commitment to Corporate Our e orts to reduce waste are global, with Our highest scores ever, demonstrating our Social Responsibility, placing us in the top four each facility working towards our 2025 goal. commitment to serving our customers better. percent of all assessed suppliers. © Copyright 2020 Greif. All Rights Reserved. 49 ADVANCING CIRCULAR ECONOMY Innovation Improving products and processes to reduce our footprint and drive customer satisfaction. Why Innovation Matters Innovation 2018: 103-1, 103-2, 103-3; GRI 301: 103-1, 103-2, 103-3 Our approach to innovation enables Greif to advance sustainable packaging and circular economy principles. As we continue to innovate, we reduce our footprint and support our customers’ desire for safer, lighter weight products and reduced transportation costs. We analyze our entire value chain—from the extraction of raw materials to our products’ end-of-life—to nd opportunities to improve our products and processes. This strategy is not only the right thing to do, but provides us a competitive advantage. Governance Our innovation e orts focus on transforming our product portfolio by developing sustainable packaging solutions based on a set of eight environmental, social and nancial sustainability criteria. Through internally-initiated solutions and collaboration with customers, our innovation e orts focus on dematerialization—producing products that are lighter weight, utilize less virgin raw materials and more recycled content—and green material substitution—identifying safer materials to produce our products, including bio-based materials—while continuing to meet performance requirements. Innovation is managed by our Global Innovation Committee, comprised of representatives from each of Greif’s business units and is responsible for driving collaboration and idea sharing across and within business units. The new committee structure facilitates idea sharing and collaboration across the enterprise, which allows ideas to serve and in uence multiple business units. The committee updates Greif’s Executive Leadership Team (ELT) quarterly providing progress on innovation priorities and industry megatrends that may in uence investment and overall company strategy in the future. Innovation is managed by a process that evaluates and prioritizes projects based on potential nancial return, sustainability impacts and overall value to Greif and our customers. In 2019 the Innovation Committee published the inaugural “Greif Global Innovation Trends Report.” The report was developed through in-depth primary and secondary research, interviews with experts across Greif, and engagement with thought leaders both inside and out of the packaging industry. The result was used to provide global trend information for strategic planning and decision-making purposes across the Enterprise. The report identi es six trends that are strategically relevant to Greif: Companies are Becoming More Environmentally Friendly Digitization & Automation of Manufacturing Digitization of Supply Chain & Logistics Digitization of Enterprise Purchasing & business-to-business Selling Workforce Shortages, Surpluses & Skills Gap Growth Opportunities Increasing in Emerging Markets While these ndings will be used to inform business decisions and innovation priorities going forward, their relevance can already be seen in our recent innovation e orts across our organization. The Greif Green Tool continues to be an important tool for us to communicate our innovations and sustainable products to our customers. In 2019 we continued to $1.0M update the tool with our latest product information, ensuring data and product classi cations are as up-to-date as possible. Going forward, we will continue to keep data in the tool as up-to-date as possible and all new product launches will be analyzed and added to our sustainable product portfolio if they meet the criteria. In 2019, Greif used the Green Tool to collaborate with a customer in Italy to identify more sustainable products for them. The analysis helped identify four projects to Savings from Gauge present to the customer – transitioning to lighter-weight jerry cans, increasing use of Improvement Program products with high percentages of postconsumer resin (PCR), create and coordinate closed loop packaging in Europe and test Greif’s GCUBE Track technology to Working with our suppliers to meet minimum speci cations optimize logistics and supply chain. The customer will be implementing one of these requirements resulted in signi cant savings in 2019. projects in 2020 and will continue to evaluate the remaining for implementation in 2020 or 2021. Customer engagement like this, as well as the work done by our commercial team to educate our customers about the bene ts of our sustainability tagged products lead to tremendous sales opportunities for Greif. In 2019, Greif had $430,962,128* in revenue from sustainability-tagged products. 50 Our innovation priorities vary based on the speci c needs of each of our business units and needs of the customers they serve. In 2019 our Flexible Products & Services (FPS) business continued advancing multiple sustainable product projects to reduce material use that, collectively, are estimated to generate 380 tons of material savings annually. The business unit continued to work with our stakeholders to maintain our position as a market leader in food safety and meet emerging compliance requirements as part of our Food Safety Initiative. As part of this work we have launched our new SealGuard Flexible Intermediate Bulk Container (FIBC). SealGuard is made with polyethylene (PE) using a revolutionary automated bonding process that allows for contaminationand leak-free transportation, better protects against moisture without using an inner liner, and reduces risk of tearing during lling processes. The material is also more resistant to ultraviolet degradation than comparable materials, reducing the risk of the packaging deteriorating if it is handled and stored incorrectly. In contrast to conventional FIBCs which are produced from polypropylene (PP) and PE, the SealGuard is only made from PE which makes it easily recyclable. Our Food Safety Initiative has also progressed in our Rigid Industrial Packaging & Services (RIPS) business. In 2019, we formalized our integrated ISO-certi ed food manufacturing practice program, which involves integrating standard food safety practices into our quality management system. At the end of 2019, 45 percent of our facilities were compliant with the new standards. All facilities are planned to be compliant by the end of 2020 ultimately becoming the standard quality system used across RIPS North America. The acquisition and integration of Caraustar into our Paper Packaging & Services (PPS) operations has advanced innovation within the business unit even further. With their collaboration and capabilities we have increased our ability to o er recycled single use paper products and bre drums, ame retardant oor board, wax coatings suitable for produce packaging and produce wood alternatives out of recycled containerboard. We are also proud of our automation and digital printing abilities both of which make our manufacturing operations more e cient and signi cantly reduce waste. Our innovation e orts also address regionally-speci c needs and can go beyond our products. Greif’s Latin American (LATAM) o ces are encouraging innovation in their working environment. In 2019, the team hosted interactive and in-person innovation workshops to teach our colleagues about innovation and brainstorm not just product and process ideas, but innovations we can bring to our working environment to be a better and more attractive employer for current and future colleagues. The workshops also served as an opportunity to share innovation projects that may be bene cial to other facilities. In 2020, we will build on the success of the workshops by conducting them globally. For more information about our innovation e orts, please see: MITSloan Management Review: Surprising Insights from Environmental Screenings MITSloan Management Review: The Innovation Bottom Line, pp11 Packaging Strategies: A Commitment to Life Cycle Assessment, pp 6-7 WBCSD U.S., Inc.: From cradle to grave: Greif's Life Cycle Analysis World Resources Institute: Aligning Pro t and Environmental Sustainability: Stories from Industry Goals & Progress Our innovation priorities continue to support our 2025 supply chain goals to reduce raw materials/logistics costs used to produce current product o erings by one percent and move from non-green to green material sourcing if it is economically feasible and doing so provides high quality products to our customers. In 2020, we will continue to analyze new and innovative products through research and development and engage our customers to inform our innovation priorities. *Global revenue from sustainability-tagged products for Greif’s Rigid Industrial Packaging & Services (RIPS) business unit, including end-of-life services Highlight Stories Reducing the Weight of Jerry Cans Greif manufactured our rst lighter weight 20 and 25 liter jerry can models in 2015. This design is 15 percent lighter than the previous model while maintaining performance speci cations of the previous design. Due to the reduced weight, the new jerry cans reduce materials and energy used in production by up to 15 percent and have a reduced emissions impact. Since being introduced, we have continually worked to improve this product line. In 2019, we expanded this product line to include sizes 16 and 18 liters. The 20 and 25 liter lighter jerry cans are manufactured in Italy and Sweden while the other sizes are manufactured in Israel. Increasing the Use of PCR in Our Products Containers made from post-consumer resin (PCR) signi cantly reduce the need to use virgin resin—in some cases eliminating it completely—require less energy to manufacture and divert materials headed to land lls by repurposing them into new products. Where possible, Greif works to increase the use of PCR in our product lines. At the end of 2017, Greif launched its new EcoBalance™ product line in North America. The line includes drums and other shipping containers made using approximately 75 percent recycled plastic obtained from post-consumer shipping containers, while still meeting competitive performance standards. Our line of PCR containers reduces CO2 emissions by 30-53 percent. In 2019, Greif’s EMEA operations processed 7,500 metric tons of PCR to produce almost one million drums, pallets and drum accessories. Among these products are jerry cans and open head drums of di erent sizes made with up to 75 percent PCR. Where possible, we incorporate PCR into our products as much as we can and are increasing our production capabilities for PCR products. Our line of multilayer, tight head and open head drums can be produced using up to 60 percent PCR with UN rating, while single layer tight head drums can be made with a minimum of 75 percent PCR with UN rating and single layer open head drums can be made with a minimum of 50 percent PCR with UN rating. Our PCR drums can be produced at our Hazelton, Alsip/Bradley, Houston and Lavonia facilities in North America, Bottanuco and Castenedolo facilities in Italy and the Netherlands. We are also increasing our production of PCR in many of our facilities, including those in the Netherlands, France, Germany, Austria and Italy. 51 DoubleGreen™ Product Line In 2014, Greif received the IAIR Sustainability Award for our enduring commitment to sustainability and innovations in industrial packaging and services. IAIR speci cally cited our DoubleGreen COEX 10L stackable jerry can, which incorporates green polyethylene derived from sugarcane ethanol, exceeding 50 percent of the total packaging composition. Through its stackable design, the can eliminates the need for carbon boxes for transportation, improves inventory management costs, removes the necessity for printing a duplicate label and optimizes the recycling process. We conducted a Life Cycle Assessment (LCA) demonstrating the DoubleGreen COEX 10L jerry can is able to reduce CO2 emissions by roughly 50 percent compared to traditional jerry cans. Annually, this can equate to a 220 ton reduction in CO2 emissions, while saving 112 tons of paper. By reducing carbon packaging from transportation, we estimate saving 3,643 trees and avoiding 23 tons of excess CO2 emissions. Our DoubleGreen COEX 10L jerry cans are UN certi ed and achieve higher SKU utilization. In Brazil, our team developed the rst 20 liter monolayer packaging for agrochemicals. With a weight less than 1kg, it requires fewer raw materials for production while preserving the mechanical strength required for stacking. Packaging weight reduction also translates into a CO2 emissions reduction of approximately 42 tons per year. Innovating Injection and Welding Production with NexDRUM® Greif’s NexDRUM® plastic drum is produced with 15 percent less material than our standard blow molded plastic drum. The NexDRUM® design was created through an innovative injection and welding production process that works with reduced material inputs, without negatively a ecting the performance and stability of the drum. The unique production method also results in a 12 percent CO2 emissions reduction compared with conventional drums. Agribusiness Virtuous Cycle Greif’s plastics operations in Brazil developed a process that uses DuPontTM Fusabond®, a polymer compatibilizer, to turn waste into automotive lubricant bottles, rigid pipes and other products. The “Agribusiness Virtuous Cycle” is a full-cycle recycling system that diverts multilayer plastic agrochemical bottle waste from land lls and remakes it into high-value products. Through this process, over 550,000 tons of agrochemical plastic bottles have been collected*, saving 688,000 tons of CO2 equivalents. This innovation was honored as a Gold winner in the 23rd DuPont Awards for Packaging Innovation. *Figures estimated by INPEV Sustainable Solutions for IBCs Using PCR In 2019 Greif’s Castenedolo, Italy facility began producing multi-layer GCUBE IBCs made with up to 60 percent PCR. The IBCs use PCR from the facility’s IBC collection service and are extruded at its on-site recycling center to manufacture the product. The inner layer of this sustainable bottle remains 100 percent virgin high density polyethylene (HDPE), while the two external layers are made from a blend of PCR. It o ers all the same features as the standard IBC bottle including transparency. In addition to reducing the need for virgin resin, the new product reduces the carbon footprint of the IBC bottle by up to 38 percent and up to 11 percent for the entire IBC. Throughout 2020, production of this product will expand to facilities in Germany, Netherlands, Russia, China, Spain and the USA. These new IBCs are particularly suited to customers already taking advantage of our empty IBC collection service. Shield Technology Permeation, the penetration of liquid, vapor or gas through a solid, is a signi cant concern within the packaging industry, particularly for products that will be used to store and transport food. As part of our Food Safety Initiative, Greif introduced GCube Shield, and FIBCs that leverage shield technology to extend the shelf-life of products, protect products while also protecting the environment from packaging contents, reduce lead time and improve safety through the reduction of dangerous permeated gasses. 52 Innovating Food Safety In 2014, Greif’s Flexible Product & Services segment was approached by multiple leading producers within the infant food and formula industry to develop solutions to meet changing requirements for product handling in the industry. Greif worked with milk powder producers and stakeholders throughout the supply chain to understand the developing industry regulations. In partnership with our key customers and suppliers, we implemented solutions to meet their requirements. In 2017, Greif opened a food safety center of excellence in Belgium featuring an ISO Class 7 clean room. The facility set the highest hygiene and food safety standards in the industry and has made Greif the supplier of choice for exible packaging in the infant food and formula market. We are also improving food safety in our Tri-Sure business. In 2018, we introduced our RDL 100 and RDL 101 BPA-free linings that not only comply with all current EC and FDA food application requirements, but also meet regulations that we anticipate being introduced in the near future. Our new linings reduce working capital, save costs, guarantee consistent quality, provide sustainable solutions and protect our environment. 53 ADVANCING CIRCULAR ECONOMY Cradle to Cradle Manufacturing, Reconditioning & Recycling Working to divert used packaging from land lls and reduce the use of virgin materials. Why Cradle to Cradle Manufacturing, Reconditioning, Reuse & Recycling Matters Cradle to Cradle Manufacturing, Reconditioning, Reuse & Recycling 2019: 103-1, 103-2, 103-3; 307-1 Greif actively manages the Cradle to Cradle life cycle of industrial packaging through manufacturing, reconditioning, reuse and recycling to advance circular economy principles. We work with our customers, and even their customers, to produce new packages and products that build economic, environmental and social capital. Our Cradle to Cradle management through manufacturing, reconditioning, reuse and recycling solutions help divert waste from land lls while strengthening relationships within our supply chain. As the demand for sustainable solutions increases, our collaborative e orts with our suppliers and our customers, enable us all to reach our collective sustainability goals. Greif Recycling Operations Governance We provide end-of-life services through a program called EarthMinded Life Cycle Services (LCS), which leverages a network of Greif joint-venture owned and other thirdparty owned and operated facilities in EMEA and North America, including Container Life Cycle Management LLC (CLCM)*. Participant reconditioners in the network collect used, empty, plastic, steel and Intermediate Bulk Containers (IBC). Flexible Intermediate Bulk Containers (FIBCs) are recollected in EMEA through our wholly owned subsidiary, Rebu. The collected containers are reconditioned so they are suitable for reuse and then reintroduced into trade. The reconditioned containers reduce the demand for new containers and demand for virgin raw materials, while decreasing the number of containers that go to land ll. If a container cannot be reconditioned, the materials are recycled for use into other products. Across our reconditioning operations, we reconditioned, remanufactured, or recycled more than 4.3 million containers and managed over 4 million tons of recycled paper bre in 2019. Many of Greif’s largest customers use the EarthMinded LCS network to recondition their containers. Customers who use the network can access real-time reports through EcoTrack and the Greif Green Tool, which enables customers to quantify performance by tracking key indicators like carbon impact and weight of reused and recycled materials. 54 In 2019, we took a number of deliberate steps to better integrate and align our reconditioning operations into the overall Greif business, beginning with instating a General Manager to oversee all EarthMinded LCS and CLCM operations. The General Manager is tasked with implementing Greif’s policies, procedures, training and business objectives throughout the network. The network is now also operating on many of Greif’s IT systems, including our Compliance Management System (please see the Environmental Management Systems section of our report for additional information). We established a three-year strategy that is well-aligned to the needs we see in the reconditioning market and Greif’s strategic objectives. As part of this strategy, we will be working in 2020 and beyond to expand our return program, build our capabilities across multiple packaging materials and enhance our IBC services. Our new management structure will allow us to improve our management of social and environmental issues that have the potential to impact the communities in which we operate. Since 2017, CLCM has been actively addressing the concerns of the St. Francis community and applicable regulators related to odor and alleged health and safety violations (many of which CLCM disputes) at a reconditioning facility operating under the trade name “Mid America Steel Drum.” CLCM’s history of engagement with the community and regulators and actions taken to address their concerns, are available at CLCMWI.com. In 2019 CLCM initiated use of a regenerative thermal oxidizer (RTO) at the St. Francis facility intended to reduce odors emanating from the site’s operations. Thermal oxidation is recognized as the most e ective way to destroy odor-causing compounds and is commonly used throughout the United States for a wide variety of processes. CLCM is one of the rst industrial packaging reconditioners to adopt this technology. CLCM is continuing to engage with local o cials to endeavor to maintain positive relations with the community and continue to identify areas for improvement. Our commitment to enhancing our IBC services expands outside of North America. In 2019, we took a majority stake in Tholu, an IBC rebottling, reconditioning and 76,400 distribution company serving the EMEA region. We will also be working with our new colleagues that have joined Greif through the Caraustar acquisition to improve our capabilities to provide reconditioning services for bre containers. Greif’s acquisition of Caraustar vastly expanded our recycling footprint and operational capabilities. Greif now operates 20 recycling facilities, o ers complete Metric Tons of Virgin Materials outsourcing solutions for plastics, pulp and paper bre procurement, Saved transportation and administration and provides complete paper bre audit and management solutions. 98 percent of the products we handle, by volume, is paper Our reconditioning and reuse operations helped us remove bre. Our paper bre recycling operations collect paper bre for use in our own over 60,000 metric tons of virgin steel, high-density containerboard mills and for sale to other containerboard manufacturers or polyethylene and wood from our supply chain in 2019. converters. Because of our integrated capabilities, Greif now holds a central position in the paper recycling industry and operates as a net positive recycler. Approximately 50 percent of the bre we collect is used in our own operations to manufacture paper products for use in consumer and industrial settings. The remaining 50 percent of the bre we collect is sold to external converters for use in their own operations. Over 90 percent of the bre we use in our paper manufacturing is from 100 percent recycled inputs. We are proud to be able to o er these services, however global demand for bre from converters is falling and driving commodity prices down. For many recyclers, the cost of collecting bre is now higher than its commodity price. Many users of recycling services, including municipalities, have not yet realized or adjusted to the costs that may be required to continue o ering these services. Through our sales force and participation in various industry groups, we are doing our part to educate the market on the dynamics of the changing industry to ensure this remains a viable business for ourselves and our peers. As a collector, converter, and supplier of bre, Greif is well positioned to continue to operate pro tably as the market adjusts to these changing dynamics. Beyond our Paper Packaging & Services (PPS) operations, the use of recycled plastics plays an important role in our business. In our Rigid Industrial Packaging & Services (RIPS) business, all of our plastic products globally are 100 percent recyclable and 100 percent of our internal regrind plastic is reused to be incorporated back into our products. Internal regrind accounts for approximately 20 percent of our drums and IBCs. We use recycled steel where possible. Globally, steel products were made from a minimum of 15 percent recycled steel in 2019. In North America, steel products were made from a minimum of 33 percent recycled steel. In our Flexible Packaging & Services (FPS) business, 90 percent of our internal scrap is recycled by ourselves and the balance is sold to recycling companies. There is approximately 7 percent recycled plastics (internal scrap) in our FPS plastics products. Cradle-to-cradle and the use of recycled products are just two components of our circular economy strategy that spans across our operations and value chain. As part of that strategy, we are working to drive circular economy principles in four key areas: Reducing raw material use Waste reduction and reducing natural resource use Innovation and increasing recyclability, and use of recycled materials, in our products End-of-life Please see the Supply Chain Management, Waste and Innovation pages of our report for more information about how our circular economy strategy spans our entire business. In 2020, we will continue to engage customers on packaging innovation and partner to develop new reconditioning solutions. Greif will develop the appropriate tools to educate and encourage our customers to ensure empty packaging is disposed of in a sustainable fashion. This includes engaging customers at conferences and other events. Greif is continually evaluating partners who can both manage collection and ensure Greif’s safety standards so we can support our customers’ goals and to better o er a truly global reconditioning service. Currently, we are building the infrastructure to respond to demand, particularly as the global market continues to evolve to meet consumer expectations for sustainable products and operations. * EarthMinded LCS is comprised of Greif, Inc. subsidiary EarthMinded Europe (formerly “pack2pack”) with network sites and alliance participants across Europe, and Container Life Cycle Management LLC in North America, a joint venture composed of Greif and the former owners of Drumco of Arkansas, Drumco of Tennessee and Mid-America Steel Drum Co., Inc. The EarthMinded LCS network in North America also includes West Texas Drum Company covering the Gulf Coast, Chambers Drum Company, Inc. covering the southeast United States, and Kearny Steel Container covering the northeast United States. Goals & Progress Our end-of-life e orts support our 2025 supply chain, waste and innovation goals. Performance EARTHMINDED LIFE CYCLE SERVICES ESTIMATED DRUMS AND IBCS RECONDITIONED* FY 2015 FY 2016 FY 2017 FY 2018 FY 2019 Recycled 780,500 1,045,093 904,883 849,498 831,576 Steel Drums 553,300 689,513 534,369 571,355 509,884 Poly Drums 196,300 277,672 212,272 161,447 243,186 IBCs 30,900 77,908 158,242 116,696 78,506 Reconditioned 4,076,700 3,808,242 3,218,885 3,258,848 3,533,358 Steel Drums 3,356,200 3,072,348 2,565,052 2,713,025 2,699,393 55 FY 2015 FY 2016 FY 2017 FY 2018 FY 2019 Poly Drums 374,100 375,307 321,188 244,497 194,011 IBCs 346,400 360,587 332,645 301,326 639,954 Total Collected 4,857,200 4,853,335 4,136,828 4,105,936 4,348,706 Steel Drums 3,909,500 3,761,861 3,099,633 3,284,380 3,193,049 Poly Drums 570,400 652,979 535,460 405,944 437,197 IBCs 377,300 438,495 501,735 415,612 718,460 Virgin Materials Saved by Reconditioning and Reuse (Metric Tons)** 77,773 71,573 63,111 63,587 76,400 Steel 70,198 65,743 56,200 57,664 66,900 High-Density Polyethylene 5,742 5,830 5,150 4,243 5,900 Wood 1,833 1,761 1,680 3,600 Virgin Materials Saved by Recycling (Metric Tons)*** 12,076 17,402 18,755 16,644 16,145 Steel 9,657 13,288 13,463 12,697 10,918 High-Density Polyethylene 2,297 3,817 4,580 3,385 4,888 Wood 122 297 712 562 339 1. Virgin Materials Saved by Reconditioning and Reuse data has been restated to standardize units across regions *Estimated Drums and Intermediate Bulk Containers (IBCs) Recycled and Reconditioned (North America and Europe, Middle East and Africa) **Estimates based on the quantity of reconditioned packaging and average packaging speci cations (North America and Europe) ***Estimates based on the quantity of recycled packaging and average packaging speci cations (North America and Europe) REBU – ESTIMATED FLEXIBLE INTERMEDIATE BULK CONTAINERS (FIBCS) RECONDITIONED EUROPE, MIDDLE EAST AND AFRICA FY 2015 FY 2016 FY 2017 FY 2018 FY 2019 Total FIBCs Collected 316,324 275,732 Reconditioned 224,418 179,912 Recycled 91,906 95,820 Total Virgin Polyethylene Saved (Metric Tons) 727.6 634.2 Virgin Polyethylene Saved by Reconditioning and Reuse (Metric Tons)* 516.2 413.8 Virgin Polyethylene Saved by Recycling (Metric Tons)** 211.4 220.4 *Estimates based on the quantity of reconditioned packaging and average packaging speci cations (Europe) **Estimates based on the quantity of recycled packaging and average packaging speci cations (Europe) Highlight Stories Using Recycled Plastic in IBC Molding Greif’s Tri-Sure facility in Carol Stream collaborated with RIPS North America purchasing, RIPS Italy and four RIPS NA plants to source 800,000 pounds of recycled plastic resins to use in the production of IBC rear/corner feet and corner protectors. This internal sourcing strategy reduced costs by $100,000. The team also reused empty corrugated bulk boxes to ship the recycled products they manufacture, reducing corrugated bulk box purchases by 84 percent. The project created company value and established environmental and nancial bene ts, while closing two internal loop systems and contributing to our circular economy by diverting waste from land lls and nding a new purpose for them. Due to the outstanding sustainability impact of the project and its ability to be scaled to other molding and injection molding facilities, the project and Tri-Sure Carol Stream team was awarded the 2019 Michael J. Gasser Sustainability Award. © Copyright 2020 Greif. All Rights Reserved. 56 Life Cycle Assessments Life cycle assessments (LCAs) are key to Greif’s innovation process. LCA is a technique that evaluates the environmental impact of products over their entire lifetime including raw material extraction, manufacturing, transportation, distribution, use and disposal or recycling. This information helps us understand the overall environmental pro le of our existing products, where and how our impacts occur, target improvements in materials and products and to prioritize analysis of processes, components and materials that have the greatest environmental impact. In the mid-2000s, we began using LCA to evaluate our entire product portfolio to assess our products’ overall environmental impact and identify steps in the cycle where a sustainable improvement can have the most positive impact. We learned that material mass is strongly linked to the environmental performance of most industrial packaging. This nding led us to focus on lightweighting our products, including the NexDRUM®, contributing to reduced emission and environmental impact in our supply chain. LCAs also showed that extending product life has a greater impact on the environmental pro le of our businesses than transportation of our products. Based on this knowledge, we launched EarthMinded Life Cycle Services, to recondition, refurbish and recycle used drums, extending the life of our products and ful lling a critical need for our customers. Please visit Cradle to Cradle Manufacturing, Reconditioning & Recycling for more information. State of the Art Reconditioning Services in Lille Greif’s EarthMinded LCS facility in Lille, France has taken signi cant steps to innovate the logistics associated with o ering reconditioning services to our customers. Traditionally, empty IBCs were picked up from and delivered to a single location for a single customer. EarthMinded LCS Lille has begun picking up from locations along our customers supply chain, then delivering reconditioned IBCs back to our customers, simplifying logistics for our customers. Lille as also implemented datamatrix, a traceability system that allows us to record all production steps from reception to delivery, have visibility into the origins of an IBC and provide a real time view of our inventory in support of overall enhanced customer service. Datamatrix also supports better management of residue in the IBCs they collect. Each IBC that enters the facility is automatically weighed to determine how much residue is in the container and inform how it is treated. With datamatrix, this information can be sent directly back to customers to improve how they manage IBCs that are ready for pick-up. Lille uses a closed loop water system for water that is used to clean IBCs recycling 100 percent of the water they use, and collects, treats and shreds plastic that is used to manufacture new IBCs and plastic drums. Greif Takes Majority Share in Tholu In 2019 Greif signed an agreement to acquire a majority share in the Tholu group, a Netherlands-based market leader in IBC rebottling, reconditioning and distribution. Tholu implements a variety of high-speed, state-of-the-art, closed looped systems to recondition IBCs to a high level of reconditioning that is suitable to use to store and transport a wide variety of products. All IBCs collected by the facility are collected as waste under government regulation. All IBCs that are collected by the facility are either cleaned and returned to use or processed to be used in alternate products. Greif’s investment in Tholu helps us to strengthen our footprint in the overall IBC market in Northwestern Europe. A family-owned business, Tholu has been buying Greif produced IBCs in Ede, Netherlands since 2016 through a jointventure agreement. Tholu reported $45.2 million in revenue in 2018. The new venture will operate as Greif Tholu, operating under current Tholu management. 57 Reconditioning Conical Drums in Portugal For the past 20 years Greif’s RIPS facility in Iberia, Portugal has been supplying customers with reconditioned conical drums, having reconditioned over 10 million drums and saving 50,000 tons of steel, 197,600 tonnes of CO2 emissions, 2,600,000 gigajoules of energy, and 343,200 cubic meters of water in the process. The project was initially started as a way to help address our customers’ wish to reduce waste and lower their carbon footprint and overall improve customer satisfaction. The team collaborated with customers to understand their needs, including volume, speci cation requirements and safety, developed a reconditioning process, and ultimately installed a reconditioning line to begin serving customers. Today, the facility serves a multitude of customers, reconditioning 500,000 conical drums and saving 5,200 tons of steel each year. 58 ADVANCING CIRCULAR ECONOMY Supply Chain Management Working with our suppliers to create shared value. Why Supply Chain Management Matters GRI 301: 103-1, 103-2, 103-3; Supply Chain Management: 103-1, 103-2, 103-3 Greif engages suppliers to ensure our commitment to sustainability encompasses more than just our own operations. We expect our suppliers to uphold the same levels of integrity, responsibility and commitment to sustainability that we do. By actively working with our suppliers, we minimize potential environmental and social risks while creating opportunities to e ciently use materials and implement solutions that positively impact our customers. Governance Greif sources direct materials such as resins, paint and steel and indirect materials such as consumables, services and transportation. Greif’s Global Sourcing and $1.0M Supply Chain Team tracks monthly improvements in material costs, working capital, deal terms and inventory as part of the Greif Business System (GBS). We outline our expectations for our suppliers in our Supplier Code of Conduct and evaluate each of our top 20 suppliers on a scorecard that considers quality, delivery, cost, valueadded services, environmental impact and technical support. Sustainability criteria, such as material reduction, use of lower environmental impact materials and Savings from Gauge supplier sustainability initiatives, account for ve percent of the supplier scorecard. Improvement Program Greif complies with applicable laws to manage potential human rights violations in Working with our suppliers to meet minimum speci cations our supply chain. Due to the fact that some Greif products contain tin, we are requirements resulted in signi cant savings in 2019. committed to understanding the 3TG metals in our supply chain. To assess con ict risk throughout our supply chain, we validate our Con ict Minerals Policy and publish our Con ict Minerals Report annually. In accordance with the California Transparency in Supply Chains Act of 2010, Greif takes measures to prevent and eliminate forced labor in our direct supply chain, as outlined in our Supplier Code of Conduct and Transparency in Supply Chain Disclosure. Supply chain sustainability objectives are supported by our Sustainable Procurement Team, which evaluates opportunities to minimize material use and nds more sustainable raw materials alternatives. The team, made up of colleagues from each region, evaluates opportunities across the globe and works to share best practices in sustainable sourcing with the Global Procurement Team. For example, in 2018 Greif began replacing combustible gasoline and LPG powered forklifts with electricity powered forklifts. The transition both supported Greif’s Renewable Forklift Policy and resulted in signi cant emissions savings. In 2020, this project will continue to expand globally. Please see our Climate Strategy, Energy & Emissions page for more information on this project. We have also made changes to impact energy and emissions use among our trucks and colleague vehicle eet. We have begun transitioning GPS devices in our trucks to run on solar as opposed to battery power. By the end of 2019, this transition was 56 percent complete and will be completed in 2020. We have set more stringent emission guidelines for approved colleague vehicles to promote more energy e cient and, where feasible, electric vehicles. Collectively we continue to track procurement projects that have potential to provide positive sustainability impacts through GBS. In 2019, we identi ed 10 projects with $1.136 million in savings on sustainability impact projects. Greif works to identify and implement chemical substitutions in our products and operations to remove and reduce hazardous waste, including VOCs. Since 2015, we replaced 10 percent of steel coil material volume and potentially hazardous paint within our operations. We now use safer alternatives in many of our products, including our Tri-Sure Vreeland linings and our water-based acrylic paints. In fact, all of our facilities, except in Auburndale, Florida, are exclusively using water-based paints. The steps we take to reduce hazardous waste align with our Environmental Health and Safety Policy. In 2019, 100 percent of our new suppliers were given access to our Supplier Code of Conduct via Greif.com and expected to adhere to the principles within. In North America, our Supplier Code of Conduct is part of every purchase order and agreement that has to be signed by our suppliers. We began revising our Supplier Code of Conduct to set better expectations for our suppliers and better address environmental and social risks within our supply chain based on the key industries that we serve. In 2020, we will issue an updated Supplier Code of Conduct as a formal policy and begin stronger enforcement among our suppliers, including integration into supplier audits and incorporating it into every purchase order globally. In 2020 we will also issue an internal Purchasing Policy that provides guidelines for procurement to our colleagues. The policy will include considerations for environmental and social procurement criteria including green materials, waste and supplier diversity. We continue to integrate environmental and social criteria into our supplier audits. To ensure continuous supplier improvement in areas such as colleague health and safety, we integrated language on conformance to standards and ISO certi cation development into our supplier audits. We benchmarked industry best practices to improve our supplier scorecards, Supplier Code of Conduct and rating procedures. We created legal training on anti-trust policies and products, which are available to all colleagues through our online training system. 59 Goals & Progress In 2017, we set 2025 goals to: Using a scal year 2017 baseline, reduce raw materials/logistical costs used to produce current product o ering by one percent. Move from non-green (oil-based, more energy intensive) to green material sourcing if it is economically feasible and doing so provides high quality products to our customers. To progress on our 2025 goals, we incorporate our goals into our RFQ process when soliciting potential suppliers. Our sourcing managers incorporate topics such as carbon content, recyclability and packaging improvement into conversations with many of our suppliers to identify opportunities to impact our goals. We have made green material substitutions to increase the use of post-consumer regrind plastic in our products. We increased our e ciency with corrugated cardboard boxes and other packaging materials to increase reusability, while optimizing logistical routes, to reduce shipping expenditures. In some EMEA facilities, we have introduced a more biodegradable oil to clean our paint lines. Throughout 2019, we identi ed green material substitutions and identi ed cost savings opportunities. The move from non-green products and materials, such as oil-based products, has prompted us to engage in green-material sourcing from our suppliers. We have already begun to move away from solvent based paints to water-based paints and liners for drums. This collaborative work is internally supplemented by internal changes, such as a transition to LED lights. These initiatives are all a part of a larger training initiative with the supply chain team to think-of and develop new projects and integrate sustainability into the buyer’s performance appraisals for 13 of our buyers, including buyers for steel, resin and logistics. We will continue implementing these, and similar measures, in 2020. Highlight Stories Gauge Improvement Each month, Greif tracks speci cations of incoming raw materials. We work with our suppliers to consistently meet our minimum speci cations, helping us reduce logistics costs and minimize virgin material used in our products compared to materials at our maximum speci cations. In 2019, our gauge improvement e orts resulted in $1 million in savings. Together for Sustainability Since 2014, Greif has worked with Together For Sustainability (TfS), to help build an industry-wide sustainability standard for suppliers to chemical manufacturers. On behalf of its more than 20 chemical manufacturer members, TfS audits supply chain partners on more than 30 management, environment, health and safety, labor and human rights and governance criteria. TfS distributes results to their members to support purchasing decisions, replacing the need for company-speci c audits and holding suppliers to a consistent standard for the industry. Nine Greif facilities have been audited, achieving an average score of 93.9% percent, indicating no major concerns at our facilities. In 2019, TfS conducted audits of RIPS facilities in Cologne, Germany and Sultanbeyli, Turkey. TfS Audit Performance RIPS Naperville, Illinois: 100% RIPS Cologne, Germany: 98% RIPS Lockport, Illinois: 98% FPS Sultanbeyli, Turkey: 98% RIPS Europoort, Netherlands: 97% RIPS Attendorn, Germany: 96% RIPS Usti, Czech Republic: 95% RIPS Campana, Argentina: 83% RIPS Shanghai, China: 80% EcoVadis In 2019, Greif earned Gold Recognition level from EcoVadis for superior Corporate Social Responsibility performance. This score places Greif in the top three percent of plastic products manufacturers and top four percent of all suppliers assessed by EcoVadis. 60 Financial Performance & Pro table Growth Focusing on the future while creating value today. Why Financial Performance & Pro table Growth Matters GRI 201: 103-1, 103-2, 103-3, 201-2 Our nancial performance and sustainability strategy are mutually bene cial. We leverage our strong nancial performance to invest in the sustainability e orts that we believe in—a pillar of The Greif Way. Our sustainability strategy enables stronger sales, increased e ciency and reduced costs that create greater value for our shareholders. Performance We celebrated our 142nd year of operation in FY 2019. We continued our strong trend of nancial performance by increasing Adjusted EBITDA by more than 30 percent over Fiscal 2018. We also generated $267.8 million in Adjusted Free Cash Flow while returning more than $100 million to our shareholders via dividends paid. In 2019, we completed the acquisition of Caraustar Industries, signi cantly expanding our Paper Products and Services business. Through the acquisition we gained 106 new operating sites, warehouses and o ces, and expanded our paper services signi cantly, allowing us to better serve our customers. We originally forecasted run rate synergies of $45 million from the acquisition, but have been pleased to increase that forecast to at least $70 million by the end of Fiscal 2022. $24 million in synergies were realized in 2019 and provided a meaningful contribution to our 2019 performance. Our commitments to delivering the highest level of customer satisfaction through product quality and service excellence enabled us to improve our Customer Satisfaction Index, Net Promoter and Corrective Action Rate scores, all contributing to our e orts to attract and retain customers. We also continue to incorporate sustainability further into our products and conversations with customers, which reinforces the value our services provide. We are building stronger relationships with our customers, which is leading to greater strategic partnerships. We are continuing to invest in our end-of-life services to provide our customers with e cient steel, plastic and Intermediate Bulk Container (IBC) reconditioning options, reducing demand for virgin materials. We completed the acquisition of Tholu in 2019, expanding our IBC reconditioning footprint in Europe. Additionally, through our acquisition of Caraustar, we can now o er more comprehensive paper recollection and recycling services. We work closely with our customers to create new and innovative products. Our collaborative approach to product innovation and end-of-life solutions enables us to support our customers in solving the business challenges they face while lowering input costs and contributing to sustainability performance. Greif’s focus on sustainable activities reduces our operational footprint while providing economic and environmental bene ts. We are actively working to reduce energy and waste, as they tie directly to cost savings, and our e orts to drive raw material and water e ciencies. Our compliance management system (CMS) reduces the risk of regulatory nes and aligns to our initiatives that address ethics, security risks and business continuity. Our CMS is also becoming increasingly important to how we track and manage waste data. All Greif sites globally are required to submit waste data and supporting documentation to CMS monthly, improving the speed, e ciency, accuracy, and ultimately the ability to e ectively manage waste across our entire business. Our colleagues make these e orts possible. We are creating a workplace that our colleagues want to participate in by creating a safe and productive environment. We focus on colleague retention and development to ensure our colleagues have a customer service mindset and do business The Greif Way. Our 2019 nancial performance was supported by lower raw material costs and better than anticipated results and synergy capture from the Caraustar acquisition, o set by weaker demand in our Rigid Industrial Packaging & Services (RIPS), Flexible Products & Services (FPS) and legacy paper businesses in part due to uncertain global trade dynamics. Given the uncertain market environment, we focused on controllable aspects of our business such as tight cost controls and customer service excellence. We reorganized our RIPS business under a single leadership team that now oversees all global RIPS operations. This new structure will allow for more impactful management of costs, commercial initiatives and sustainability. We invested in growth capital projects in our RIPS facilities to expand our IBC and plastics capacity to better meet customer needs. We also expanded the CorrChoice network with the addition of a new sheet feeder in northeast Pennsylvania to penetrate an attractive market. Finally, we invested in maintenance projects across our facilities to ensure our business continues to perform at optimal levels and continued to make investments in our facilities to protect against the risk of damages from extreme weather events, protecting not just our facilities, but our colleagues. As a result of our e orts, we generated $3.96 in Adjusted Class A Earnings per Share in Fiscal 2019, near the high end of our stated guidance range for the year. We also exceeded our Adjusted Free Cash Flow expectation for Fiscal 2019 in part due to better than expected synergies from the Caraustar acquisition and stronger operating working capital performance. In 2020 we will advance the implementation of a new single system ERP platform around our portfolio and expect to continue realizing synergies from the Caraustar integration. We will also bring new IBC and plastics projects online that will help deliver high quality, sustainable solutions to our customers. Goals & Progress Our 2020 nancial goals are: Generating between $3.63 and $4.13 in Class A Earnings per Share before Special Items. Delivering between $245 and $285 million in Free Cash Flow. 61 Sustainability Goals Reducing Our Footprint Climate Strategy, Energy & Emissions 2020 Goal: 10 percent reduction in energy and greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions per unit of production, from a scal 2014 baseline. Water 2025 Goal: Reduce Biochemical Oxygen Demand (BOD) discharged in kilograms by 10 percent per metric ton of production from Riverville and Massillon mills using a 2014 baseline by the end of scal year 2025. Waste 2025 Goal: Divert 90 percent of waste from land lls from all Greif production facilities globally by the end of scal year 2025. Supply Chain Management 2025 Goal: Using a scal year 2017 baseline, reduce raw materials/logistical costs used to produce current product o ering by one percent by the end of scal year 2025. 2025 Goal: Move from non-green (oil-based, more energy intensive) to green material sourcing if it is economically feasible and doing so provides high quality products to our customers by the end of scal year 2025. Addressing Risk Ethics & Compliance 2025 Goal: Provide online training of the Greif Code of Business Conduct and Ethics to 100 percent of colleagues with access to computers by the end of scal year 2025. 2025 Goal: Provide training and information on the Greif Anti-bribery Policy to 100 percent of colleagues for whom training is relevant by the end of scal year 2025. 2025 Goal: Provide online training of the Fair Treatment of Employees Policy to 100 percent of colleagues with access to computers and provide accessible and traceable information to all colleagues by the end of scal year 2025. Valuing Our People Talent Attraction, Development, & Retention 2025 Goal: 100 percent of permanent colleagues will participate in regular performance development discussions by the end of scal year 2025. 2025 Goal: Using scal year 2017 baseline, increase average hours of annual training per colleagues by 50 percent by the end of scal year 2025. 2025 Goal: 100 percent of colleagues will be covered by parental leave by the end of scal year 2025. Health & Safety 2025 Goal: Reduce Medical Case Rate by 10 percent annually to achieve 100 percent safety – Medical Case Rate Zero – in the long term. 2025 Goal: Every plant will have a collaborative environmental health and safety committee consisting of both management and workers by the end of scal year 2025. Human Rights & Fair Labor Practices 2025 Goal: 100 percent of our operations will be subject to internal human rights reviews, measured on a rolling cycle, by the end of scal year 2025. 2025 Goal: 100 percent of colleagues will be trained in human rights policies and procedures by the end of scal year 2025. 2025 Goal: Using scal year 2017 baseline, increase the proportion of women in management positions by 25 percent by the end of scal year 2025. 31 Facilities Achieving Zero 1.49 Medical Case Rate Waste to Land ll Down 57 percent since 2007. Our e orts to reduce waste are global, with each facility working towards our 2025 goal. © Copyright 2020 Greif. All Rights Reserved. 62 Performance Dashboard Environmental Data GRI 302-1, 302-4 ENERGY FY 2014 FY 2015 FY 2016 FY 2017 FY 2018 FY 2019 Total Energy Consumption (MWh) 3,228,000 3,057,000 3,009,000 3,058,000 3,103,200 5,398,000 Energy Reduction per Unit of Production Baseline year N/A 1.8% 3.1% 4.2% 0.0% Electricity Used (MWh) 848,000 859,000 861,000 1,398,000 Renewable Energy Used (Thousands of MWh) 3 3 4 15 Energy Reductions Due to Reduction Initiatives 15,000 27,000 32,000 243,800 (Scope 1, 2, and 3; gigajoules) GRI 302-1 FUEL FY 2015 FY 2016 FY 2017 FY 2018 FY 2019 Total Non-Renewable (gigajoules) 5,138,000 5,470,000 5,626,000 12,083,100 Coal/Lignite Used (Thousands of MT) 0 0 0 0.31 Natural Gas Used (Thousands of m3) 126,865 135,100 139,400 303,900 Crude Oil/Distillate Fuels (Including Diesel, #2 Fuel) Used 10,907 11,660 10,700 16,500 (Thousands of m3) Renewables* (gigajoules) 2,631,000 2,446,000 2,446,000 2,316,000 Total Fuel (gigajoules) 7,770,000 7,916,000 8,072,000 14,399,000 *Renewable fuel sources include bark, scrap wood and cardboard GRI 305-1, 305-2, 305-3, 305-4, 305-5 EMISSIONS (THOUSANDS OF METRIC TONS) FY 2014* FY 2015 FY 2016 FY 2017 FY 2018 FY 2019 GHG Scope 1 362.3 322.5 345.7 367.7 376.7 676.0 GHG Scope 2 (Location-based) 496.0 438.6 446.7 416.0 415.9 614.0 GHG Scope 3 251.5 221.9 2,927.0 3,089.0 2,867.0 4,403.0 GHG Total 1,109.8 983.0 3,719.4 3,872.7 3,659.6 5,693.0 % Reduction in Emissions per Unit of Baseline year 6.0% 2.0% 8.4% 10.3% 11.0% Production** GHG Intensity (Scope 1 and 2, total per $ 0.00020 0.00021 0.00025 0.00022 0.00021 0.00028 revenue) Emission Reductions Due to Reduction Baseline year 25.0 25.0 3.0 Initiatives (Scope 1, 2, and 3) Percentage of the Company’s Operations That 100% 100% 100% 100% Are Covered in Its Disclosures on Emissions Notes: 1. Source: Greif 2019 CDP Climate Response 2. Emissions data accounts for CO2, CH4 and N2O 3. Scope 3 emissions takes into account upstream transportation and distribution. In 2017, scope 3 was expanded to include purchased goods and services, capital goods, fuel and energy related activities not included in Scope 1 and 2, including waste generated in operations, business travel, employee commuting and end of life treatment of sold products. 4. 2019 GHG Veri cation Statement *To standardize emissions and inform year-over-year progress toward our 2025 goal, our 2014 emissions data has been restated to correct several facilities’ eGRID regions. Total does not include 246,000 metric tons of CO2e from biogenic sources. **Our percent reduction in emissions per unit of production dropped from FY 2015 to FY 2016 due to increased fugitive emissions from our Riverville, Virginia, paper mill and total emissions from our Massillon, Ohio, paper mill. Updated emissions and global warming potential factors also contributed to this change. 2019 data includes only legacy Greif facilities. GRI 303-1, 306-1, 306-5 63 WATER* FY 2015 FY 2016 FY 2017 FY 2018 FY 2019 Water Withdrawal (Thousands of cubic meters)* 8,365.4 8,420.2 9,666.3 9,360.8 13,864.4 Surface Water 9,242.7 8,630.0 10,266.8 Ground Water 423.6 730.7 3,597.6 Rainwater Wastewater Municipal Water† Wastewater Discharge (Thousands of cubic meters)** 8,255.1 7,961.4 8,983.2 9,316.2 11,853.5 James River 8,788.8 8,907.1 7,949.5 City of Massillon 191.6 407.1 424.0 Tuscarawas River 2.8 2.0 2.5 Sweetwater Creek^ 0.0 Cobb County WWTP^ 844.9 Cincinnati Metropolitan Sewerage District^^ 37.6 Milwaukee Metropolitan Sewerage District^^ 349.0 Los Angeles County Sanitation District WWTF^^ 196.8 Three Mile Creek^ 0.0 Mobile Wright Smith WWTP^ 337.2 Village of Baltimore WWTF** 0.0 West Branch Paw Paw Creek** 146.7 San Jose-Santa Clara Regional WWTP^^ 288.1 Tacoma Central WWTP^^ 6.9 City of Fitchburg WWTP^ 322.6 Iowa River** 291.8 Cherry Lake** 597.8 Iowa Tributary** 58.0 Biochemical Oxygen Demand (Thousands of kg) 2,080.4 1,050.4 890.4 204.2 3,508.3 Total Suspended Solids (kg) 489,334 546,857 465,098 349,003 875,791 Phosphorus (kg) 5,517 5,728 4,991 6,617 4,708 Production (MT) 637,000 665,000 690,000 713,336 1,729 Consumption Rate (m3/MT) 13.1 12.7 14.0 13.1 8.02 Notes: 1. 2015 to 2018 data is from Greif’s two paper mills, one of which is located in Riverville, Virginia, and the other in Massillon, Ohio. Historically, these two paper mills accounted for more than 90% of Greif’s global water footprint. They draw from the James River and onsite water wells, respectively. 2019 data includes 12 former Caraustar mills that were acquired and integrated in 2019. All 2019 data is full year data. Quality of wastewater discharged from our mills meets permit requirements. No discharged water was used by another organization. WWPT = Wastewater Treatment Plant. *Evaporative losses estimated **Treated with primary clari cation, secondary clari cation and aeration before direct discharge ^ Treated with wastewater pre-treatment including soluble BOD removal ^^ Treated with wastewater pre-treatment with solids only. † Greif does not currently track withdrawal of municipal water. GRI 306-2 WASTE STREAM FY 2015 FY 2016 FY 2017 FY 2018 FY 2019 Hazardous Waste (Thousands of Metric Tons) Total Waste to Landﬁll 0.22 0.15 0.53 1.64 2.43 Waste to Land ll 0.22 0.15 0.53 1.29 1.16 Incinerated (no energy recovery)**** 0.35 1.27 Total Non-Landﬁll* 0.41 0.41 7.10 14.10 20.72 Incinerated (with energy recovery)** 1.20 3.37 4.07 64 FY 2015 FY 2016 FY 2017 FY 2018 FY 2019 Composted*** 0 0 Reused† 0.40 1.51 0.65 Reclaimed†† 0.02 0.19 0.22 0.37 Recycled††† 0.01 0.04 2.01 7.60 14.08 Miscellaneous (Non Land ll)†††† 0.38 0.37 3.30 1.40 1.55 Total Hazardous Waste 0.63 0.56 7.64 15.74 23.15 Non-Hazardous Waste (Thousands of Metric Tons) Total Waste to Landﬁll 41.17 45.20 57.40 54.59 33.84 Waste to Land ll Land ll 41.17 45.20 57.40 54.11 33.38 Incinerated (no energy recovery)**** 0.48 0.46 Total Non-Landﬁll* 40.83 51.90 161.80 257.22 184.36 Incinerated (with energy recovery)** 0.95 2.05 2.95 Composted*** 15.28 0.35 15.78 Reused† 0.03 0.13 17.15 11.64 12.32 Reclaimed†† 0.01 0.01 13.2 9.44 9.85 Recycled††† 9.8 9.1 111.86 232.00 141.22 Miscellaneous (Non Land ll)†††† 31.02 42.64 3.38 2.05 2.24 Total Non-Hazardous Waste 82.00 97.10 219.20 311.81 218.19 Total Waste 82.63 97.66 226.84 327.55 241.33 Notes: 1. In our 2015 Sustainability Report, we reported our waste stream for our RIPS North America business unit only. In 2016, we expanded our data collection to all of our North American business units. In 2017, we expanded our data collection to all global operations. Data does not include facilities obtained as part of the acquisition of Caraustar. Legacy Caraustar facilities will be incorporated into waste reporting in 2020. *Non-Land ll: Includes chemical-physical, incineration with energy recovery, recycled, reused, reclaimed, composted and fuels blending treatment methods **Incinerated (with energy recovery): Treatment method involving the combustion of solid waste that results in energy capture. ***Composted: Treatment method involving the biological decomposition of solid or liquid operational waste **** Incinerated (no energy recovery): Treatment method involving the combustion of solid waste that does not result in energy capture. †Recycled: Treatment method involving the separation, preparation and sale of recyclable materials to end-user manufacturers. ††Reused: Treatment method involving the use of a material for its original purpose multiple times †††Reclaimed: Treatment method involving the process of extracting and converting materials from recycled materials to be used again. †††† Miscellaneous (Non Land ll): All other treatment methods not mentioned previously, including Deep Well Injection and On-Site Storage, which were reported separately in 2017. PRODUCT LIFECYCLE MANAGEMENT (SASB RT-CP-410A.1, RT-CP-410A.2) RAW MATERIALS FROM RECYCLED AND RENEWABLE SOURCES PERCENT OF SUBSTRATE PERCENT OF TOTAL MATERIALS SOURCED (FY 2019, % OF METRIC TONS)* Total 71.2% Recycled Content 13.7% 4.4% Steel 15.0% 4.1% Plastic 5.6% 0.4% Renewable Sources 0.2% 1.7% Plastic 0.2% 1.7% Renewable and Recycled Content 100% 65.0% Fibre 100% 65.0% * As Greif's rst year reporting SASB metrics, all gures are estimated based on our current product classi cations and reporting practices. Data is reported only for our Rigid Industrial Packaging and Paper Packaging Services business segments and is estimated based on average procurement and manufacturing data across our product lines. 90% of the ber used in our Paper Packaging Services business segment is sourced from 100% recycled content. 100% of the ber used in our Paper Packaging Services business segment is sourced from renewable sources. For reporting purposes, 100% of that volume is reported as renewable and recycled content. Our 2020 report will include data with updated assumptions and from additional business segments. REVENUE FROM PRODUCTS THAT ARE REUSABLE, RECYCLABLE, AND/OR COMPOSTABLE ($)* FY 2019 Total $2,631,808,470 Recyclable $2,444,531,000 Reusable $0 Compostable $187,277,000 65 *As Greif's rst year reporting SASB metrics, all gures are estimated based on our current product classi cations and nancial reporting practices. Data has been aggregated to eliminate double counting. In our Rigid Industrial Packaging and Paper Packaging Services businesses, all steel, plastic and paper products are recyclable. All steel and plastic products are also designed to be reusable. Revenue from these products is counted as recyclable except for coated container board, which is compostable. Greif's bre drums are recyclable, but excluded from these gures as doing so is not a common market practice. We will begin reporting bre drums as recyclable when doing so becomes a more common practice in the market. Data does not include revenue from our Flexible Packaging Services business segment or Tri-Sure operating segment. Accurate data is currently unavailable from those segments, however we will include them in our 2020 report along with more accurate estimates across all of our business segments. GRI 306-3 EARTHMINDED LIFE CYCLE SERVICES ESTIMATED DRUMS AND IBCS RECONDITIONED* FY 2015 FY 2016 FY 2017 FY 2018 FY 2019 Recycled 780,500 1,045,093 904,883 849,498 831,576 Steel Drums 553,300 689,513 534,369 571,355 509,884 Poly Drums 196,300 277,672 212,272 161,447 243,186 Intermediate Bulk Containers 30,900 77,908 158,242 116,696 78,506 Reconditioned 4,076,700 3,808,242 3,218,885 3,258,848 3,533,358 Steel Drums 3,356,200 3,072,348 2,565,052 2,713,025 2,699,393 Poly Drums 374,100 375,307 321,188 244,497 194,011 Intermediate Bulk Containers 346,400 360,587 332,645 301,326 639,954 Total Collected 4,857,200 4,853,335 4,136,828 4,105,936 4,348,706 Steel Drums 3,909,500 3,761,861 3,099,633 3,284,380 3,193,049 Poly Drums 570,400 652,979 535,460 405,944 437,197 Intermediate Bulk Containers 377,300 438,495 501,735 415,612 718,460 Virgin Materials Saved by Reconditioning and Reuse (Metric Tons)** 77,773 71,573 63,111 63,587 76,400 Steel 70,198 65,743 56,200 57,664 66,900 High-Density Polyethylene 5,742 5,830 5,150 4,243 5,900 Wood 1,833 1,761 1,680 3,600 Virgin Materials Saved by Recycling (Metric Tons)** 12,076 17,402 18,755 16,644 16,145 Steel 9,657 13,288 13,463 12,697 10,918 High-Density Polyethylene 2,297 3,817 4,580 3,385 4,888 Wood 122 297 712 562 339 Notes: 1. Virgin Materials Saved by Reconditioning and Reuse data has been restated to standardize units across regions *Estimated Drums and Intermediate Bulk Containers (IBCs) Recycled and Reconditioned (North America and Europe, Middle East and Africa) **Estimates based on the quantity of reconditioned packaging and average packaging speci cations (North America and Europe) ***Estimates based on the quantity of recycled packaging and average packaging speci cations (North America and Europe) REBU – ESTIMATED FLEXIBLE INTERMEDIATE BULK CONTAINERS (FIBCS) RECONDITIONED, EUROPE, MIDDLE EAST AND AFRICA* FY 2015 FY 2016 FY 2017 FY 2018 FY 2019 Total FIBCs Collected 316,324 275,732 Reconditioned 224,418 179,912 Recycled 91,906 95,820 727.6 634.2 Total Virgin Polyethylene Saved (Metric Tons) Virgin Polyethylene Saved 516.2 413.8 by Reconditioning and Reuse (Metric Tons)* Virgin Polyethylene Saved 211.4 220.4 by Recycling (Metric Tons)** *Estimates based on the quantity of reconditioned packaging and average packaging speci cations (Europe) **Estimates based on the quantity of recycled packaging and average packaging speci cations (Europe) ENVIRONMENTAL OPERATIONAL POLICIES Climate Change Policy Climate Strategy, Energy, & Emissions Climate Change Risks Discussed 2019 Annual Report, page 19; CDP C2.3a 66 Energy Eﬃciency Policy Climate Strategy, Energy, & Emissions Emissions Reduction Initiatives Climate Strategy, Energy, & Emissions Waste Reduction Policy Waste Water Policy Water Sustainable Packaging Innovation, Supply Chain Management Environmental Quality Management Policy Environmental Management Systems Environmental Supply Chain Management Environmental Management Systems, Supply Chain Management GRI Criteria Compliance About Our Report Biodiversity Policy Biodiversity Social Data GRI 401-1, 404-1, 404-3 EMPLOYMENT FY 2015 FY 2016 FY 2017 FY 2018 FY 2019 Total Employees 13,171 13,066 17,042 Full Time 11,799 12,473 16,668 Part Time 175 151 169 Temporary 1,197 442 205 % Women in Management 22.0% 17.0% 16% 16% % Women in Workforce 24.0% 25.0% 24% 23% % Employees Covered by Collective Bargaining 65.3% 49.7% 52.0% 45.2% Agreements New Employee Hires (Total) 3,917 2,467 2,925 2,941 3,626 Region Asia Paci c 647 560 456 Europe, Middle East and Africa 991 1,279 1,074 Latin America 240 170 410 North America 1,047 932 1,686 Gender Female 782 754 841 Male 2,143 2,187 2,785 Age 16–20 202 163 247 21–30 1,198 1,102 1,372 31–40 798 865 1,023 41–50 507 568 620 51–60 208 202 315 60+ 12 31 49 Employee Attrition* 27.9% 21.8% 21.3% 24.3% 24.0% Region Asia Paci c 20.2% 19.7% 14.8% Europe, Middle East and Africa 39.6% 40.0% 31.0% Latin America 8.0% 10.5% 9.1% North America 32.3% 29.8% 45.1% Length of Service Less than 12 Months 50.2% 48.0% 49.0% More than 12 Months 49.8% 52.0% 51.0% 67 FY 2015 FY 2016 FY 2017 FY 2018 FY 2019 Training Hours per Employee** Skillport (Greif Learning Network) 2 2.55 5.5 Leadership, Professional, Production 9.6 6 3.2 Employees Receiving Regular Performance 90% 92% 85% 92% Reviews^ *Attrition by region and length of service given as percent of attrition for scal year. **Average hours of training per unique participant. Data excludes safety training and local functional training. FY2017 data has been restated from the 2018 Sustainability Report to exclude this data. For more information on safety training, please see Health & Safety. ^Includes eligible professional, clerical and administrative employees. GRI 403-2 EMPLOYEE HEALTH & SAFETY FY 2012 FY 2013 FY 2014 FY 2015 FY 2016 FY 2017 FY 2018 FY 2019*** MCR* 1.59 1.49 1.45 1.2 0.96 0.95 0.98 1.49 LWCR** 1.12 0.97 0.97 0.78 0.57 0.55 0.57 0.69 *MCR, or Medical Case Rate, measures the number of recordable injuries per 100 full-time employees in a 12-month period. **LWCR, or Lost Workday Case Rate, measures the number of recordable injuries resulting in lost workdays per 100 full-time employees in a 12-month period. *** 2019 data includes Caraustar for only March forward – no data included for rst 4 months of scal year. SOCIAL OPERATIONAL POLICIES Health and Safety Policy Environmental Health and Safety Policy Equal Opportunity Policy Equal Employment Opportunity & Diversity Policy Human Rights Policy Human Rights Policy Training Policy Talent Management Policy Business Ethics Policy Code of Business Conduct and Ethics Equal Employment Opportunity & Diversity Policy Fair Remuneration Policy Fair Treatment of Others Policy Employee Protection/Whistle Blower Policy Code of Business Conduct and Ethics Anti-Bribery Ethics Policy Anti-Bribery and Sanctions Policy Policy Against Child Labor Child Labor Policy SUPPLY CHAIN MANAGEMENT Social Supply Chain Management Supplier Code of Conduct, Con ict Minerals Policy, Con ict Minerals Report Supplier Guidelines Encompass ESG Areas; Publicly Disclosed Supplier Code of Conduct Product Data GRI 416-2 PRODUCT QUALITY FY 2014 FY 2015 FY 2016 FY 2017 FY 2018 FY 2019 Rigid Industrial 1.9 1.6 1.3 1.0 1.0 Packaging & Services North Corrective Action Rate (CAR)* Amerca Europe, Middle East 1.28 and Africa Rigid Industrial 99.6% 99.7% 99.8% 99.8% 99.8% Packaging & Order Reliability Rate** Services North Amerca Number of Customer Rigid Industrial 672 593 433 389 350 330 Complaints Packaging & Services North Amerca Asia Paciﬁc 334 68 FY 2014 FY 2015 FY 2016 FY 2017 FY 2018 FY 2019 Europe, Middle East 898 and Africa *CAR measures customer complaints per 100,000 units produced **Order Reliability Rate de nes the rate of failure between orders produced and estimates non-compliance with voluntary codes. No regulatory failures or resultant nes have been identi ed. ACTIVITY METRICS (SASB RT-CP-000.A, RT-CP-000.B, RT-CP-000.C) PRODUCTION BY SUBSTRATE (METRIC TONS)* FY 2019 Total 3,551,278 Paper 2,319,195 Plastic 264,450 Steel 967,633 *Production gures are aggregated based on primary substrate of nished good products. PRODUCTION BY REVENUE (%)* FY 2019 Paper 38.8% Plastic 17.9% Steel 32.0% Other* 11.3% *Other includes Filling, Reconditioning, Land and Other Misc. Products. Greif does not produce glass. 1.49 Medical Case Rate 78.4%Reduction in Biochemical Oxygen Down 57 percent since 2007. Demand Our e orts in water quality have allowed us to already meet our 10% reduction by 2025 goal. © Copyright 2020 Greif. All Rights Reserved. 69 Internal Awards Michael J. Gasser Global Sustainability Award In 2010, we introduced the Michael J. Gasser Global Sustainability Award to encourage all Greif colleagues to consider the sustainability of their decisions at work. The award recognizes the environmentally-focused activities of Greif colleaguesand superior e ort in creating sustainable value across our supply chain. 2019 – Rigid Industrial Packaging & Services (RIPS) and Tri-Sure Businesses Greif’s Tri-Sure facility in Carol Stream collaborated with RIPS North America purchasing, RIPS Italy and four RIPS NA plants to source 800,000 pounds of recycled plastic resins to use in the production of IBC rear/corner feet and corner protectors. This internal sourcing strategy reduced costs by $100,000. The team also reused empty corrugated bulk boxes to ship the recycled products they manufacture, reducing corrugated bulk box purchases by 84 percent. The project created company value and established environmental and nancial bene ts, while closing two internal loop systems and contributing to our circular economy by diverting waste from land lls and nding a new purpose for them. Due to the outstanding sustainability impact of the project and its ability to be scaled to other molding and injection molding facilities, the project and Tri-Sure Carol Stream team was awarded the 2019 Michael J. Gasser Sustainability Award. 2018 – RIPS EMEA In 2018, we awarded the Michael J. Gasser Sustainability Award to a regional team consisting of HR and GSSC representatives from Greif’s Rigid Industrial Packaging and Services (RIPS) business in our Europe, Middle East and Africa (EMEA) region for their successful e orts in reducing total fuel costs and overall CO2 emissions. RIPS EMEA modi ed the company car policy to standardize the types of cars available for use in the region. The updated policy applies to all colleagues in EMEA who renewed their company car. In total, the policy impacted 296 users during the project. The program achieved: A $228,000 reduction in fuel costs 35 percent reduction in total CO2 emissions The RIPS EMEA project truly demonstrates the wide array of possibilities that exist across the business, beyond the operational arena. This year’s project helps Greif work towards its sustainability goals. 2017 – Greif RIPS and Tri-Sure Businesses in Brazil Greif’s Rigid Industrial Packaging and Services (RIPS) and Tri-Sure businesses in Brazil were awarded the 2017 Michael J. Gasser Sustainability Award for their successful e orts to reduce energy costs and environmental impact by migrating to renewable energy. In 2016, a multifunctional team representing engineering, supply chain and operations from multiple plants collaborated with the objective to transition the plants’ energy contracts from a captive to free market energy platform, improve the e ciency and pro tability of operations and reduce their environmental footprint. The team leveraged new legislation encouraging renewable energy sources, o ering lower energy transmission costs and lower tax rates. By implementing biomass, hydroelectric, wind and solar energy sources, the team far surpassed their goal to reduce energy costs by 10 percent annually. After one year, the team achieved: A 30 percent reduction of energy costs A cost savings of more than $1.4 million USD A 70 percent reduction in CO2 emissions In addition to the environmental and nancial bene ts for Greif, the changes help us create shared value with our customers. We congratulate our colleagues in Brazil for their success in demonstrating how we can take care of our facilities, bene t the environment, realize costs savings and improve operating results at the same time. 2016 – Greif RIPS Castenedolo Plant in Italy The Greif Rigid Industrial Packaging and Services (RIPS) division's Castenedolo plant colleagues in Italy won the 2016 Michael J. Gasser Sustainability Award by fully embracing sustainable innovation principles to manufacture products that utilize methods, such as the use of recycled materials and dematerialization, that have a reduced negative impact on the environment while maintaining Greif’s commitment to only produce products of the highest quality. The Castenedolo plant colleagues worked on two separate sustainable innovation projects. The rst project involved the reduction of the weight of our GCube bottles from 14kg to 13kg while maintaining product integrity. This resulted in a seven percent reduction in natural resources consumed to manufacture the product in addition to a reduction of 312 tons of carbon emissions and 432 MWh of electricity consumption per year. The second project was the development of new manufacturing techniques over a six-month period to increase the percentage of Post-Consumer Resin (PCR) content in the production of plastic drums that can now be made with 75 percent PCR. PCR is produced from recollected plastics packaging products through a process of crashing, aking, washing, melting and granulation. Through this development, the Castenedolo team replaced 500 tons of virgin raw materials with recycled plastic and reduced their carbon emissions by 750 tons per year. The RIPS Italy colleagues from di erent departments came together and worked as one team to utilize sustainability as a catalyst to drive and inspire innovation beyond the usual parameters and boundaries. In doing so, they saved precious natural resources that not only improve Greif’s overall environmental performance but also create value for our customers. 2015 – Greif Tri-Sure Business Unit Greif’s global packaging accessories business unit, Tri-Sure, won the 2015 Michael Gasser Sustainability Award. Tri-Sure has been investing in many aspects of sustainability including resource consumption reduction, colleagues health and safety, waste reduction and innovation for the last ve years. Tri-Sure led all the Greif business units by reducing their energy consumption by 37 percent, saving over four million dollars over the past ve years and far exceeding the global corporate target of a 15 percent reduction in energy consumption. Tri-Sure also invested in innovation to create a safer work environment, ahead of government regulations, by developing a passivation method called Chromium-3 Passivation that eliminated the risk of colleagues exposure to toxic materials while also decreasing toxicity of wastewater. This innovation made Tri-Sure the rst in the market with such a product. Moreover, Tri-Sure invested in sustainable product development to create a new venting screw cap system, Plasticap 60™ MPV3 Screwcap, that not only meets customer requirements but also requires fewer raw materials to make and reduces production waste. With this innovation, Tri-Sure grew the business of the screw caps market by 220 percent. By collaborating with their customers and integrating sustainability criteria to their innovation process, Tri-Sure grew their business, pro tability and market reach. The total economic bene t achieved from all 2015 nominations, including cost savings and increases in revenue, was approximately $21 million. The total energy saved was close to two million kilowatt-hours, equivalent to carbon sequestered from 1,038 acres of U.S. forests in one year. Carbon emissions reduction equaled 20,501 tons, equivalent to 4,316 passenger vehicles driven for one year and the total reduction in waste equaled 6,067 tons. 2014 – President of RIPS EMEA and APAC; Green Tool Team Ivan Signorelli, Group President for Greif Rigid Industrial Packaging and Services (RIPS) in EMEA and APAC, and the Green Tool team received the 2014 Michael J. Gasser Sustainability Award for their visionary work with life cycle assessments (LCA) and the practical application of this science at Greif with The Greif Green Tool. Under the leadership of Ivan Signorelli, a team of Greif colleagues and Prof. Dr. Holger Buxel from the University of Applied Sciences Münster, worked with independent life cycle assessment specialists from the IFEU institute, located in Germany, to conduct life cycle assessments on Greif’s industrial packaging products with the aim of discovering sustainability-related opportunities and threats in the market. This information was used to develop the proprietary “Greif Green Tool”, which helps companies of all sizes to reduce their carbon footprint by understanding the environmental impact of di erent containers and shipping solutions. The Greif Green Tool is a exible calculator that uses independent life cycle data of Greif products. It allows Greif’s customers to see their carbon footprint data, review and compare the e ects of di erent packaging application decisions and see possible reductions in greenhouse gas emissions. This enables them to choose the right packaging products that will keep their products safe while helping them meet their sustainability goals. 70 The team members were also recognized for their commercial leadership in utilizing this powerful tool with Greif’s customers. More than 50 Greif customers have requested Green Tool demonstrations and analysis since the tool’s development. The Green Tool has been recognized by the Harvard Business Review in the article Making the Consensus Sale. The article highlights Greif's Green Tool as a method for building consensus across an organization while showing the sustainability bene ts of Greif products. The Greif Green Tool was also featured in other publications such as the MITSloan Management Review and case studies published by the WBCSD and The Corporate Executive Board Company. 2013 – Greif PPS Riverville Mill Team The Paper Packaging and Services (PPS) Riverville Mill team won the 2013 Michael J. Gasser Global Sustainability Award for their energy reduction project that began approximately ve years ago. The team succeeded in reducing Riverville Mill’s energy consumption by more than 7 percent while increasing throughput by almost 5 percent compared to FY 2008. They accomplished this through continuous improvement projects to modify operating strategies through process optimization and colleagues education and engagement; through a series of capital investments to utilize technology to improve controls; and through the involvement of all colleagues. In addition to reducing the plant’s speci c energy consumption and cost, the team’s work has also directly resulted in a reduction in carbon emissions through their e orts to reducing reliance on fossil fuel. The team has applied technologies including Variable Frequency Drives (VFDs) in 40 applications since 2009 and seven in 2013 that were identi ed by internal auditing to be candidates for signi cant energy reduction. The team’s work has reduced site energy consumption by 300 million KWh/year since 2009. 2012 – Greif Subsidiary CorrChoice Greif subsidiary CorrChoice won the 2012 Michael J. Gasser Global Sustainability Award for developing the game-changing product LeaderCorr™. LeaderCorr replaces foam board used by the retail industry and others for printed signs and in-store displays. LeaderCorr is a double-walled corrugated sheet that, unlike foam board, is completely recyclable. This means it can be put into the OCC (old corrugated containers, i.e., used cardboard) waste stream, which is an income source for the retailer. The production of LeaderCorr is also environmentally responsible and, because it is an income source, sustainable. In its manufacture, the product uses less energy, less water and less starch than traditional paper-based corrugated materials. Because of the technology that uses less water, the LeaderCorr sheets are atter than other corrugated sheets, and when overlaid with a high quality white liner, provide an ideal surface for high-impact printing. Its thickness can also be tailored for speci c applications. In 2012, the total energy saved from all nominations of the Michael J. Gasser Sustainability Award equaled to 66 million KWH and a carbon emissions reduction of 12,000 metric tons, which is equivalent to greenhouse gas emissions from 9,595 passenger vehicles or the electricity use of 6,967 homes for one year. 2011 – Greif Subsidiary Delta Companies Group For their work in developing more sustainable engine lubricants and automotive uids for the future, Greif subsidiary Delta Companies Group won Greif's 2011 Michael J. Gasser Global Sustainability Award. The team collaborated to create high performing yet sustainable oil, lube and automotive uid products for consumers. By using alternative renewable resources, packaging and recycled materials, and then conducting a life cycle assessment on the products, Delta was able to: Achieve a carbon footprint reduction of 29 to 50 percent in improved bar and chain, automotive and small engine oils, and a 38 to 51 percent lower abiotic resource depletion than conventional alternatives. The cumulative environmental impact demonstrated a 10 to 28 percent improvement over conventional products Realize a 71 percent reduction in land ll waste with alternative packaging Reduce land ll waste by 977,000 gallons, energy consumption of oil products by 90 percent and CO2 emissions by 64 percent with the use of re-re ned base oils, methanol and glycols The total economic bene t achieved from all nominations in 2011, including cost savings and increases in revenue, was over $14 million dollars. 2010 – Greif’s Latin America Business Unit The rst recipient of the Michael J. Gasser Global Sustainability Award was Greif's entire Latin America strategic business unit. The organization tackled the reduction of their energy use, embracing energy excellence to the extent of taking their commitment home with them. They developed training and delivered it to all workers, and in the process e ected a cultural change and generated a passion for conservation. Consistent with their commitment, this award is not the capstone of their e orts. They have continued to reduce their energy consumption, began to work on reducing their water consumption and institutionalized Greif's zero waste initiative. The total economic bene t achieved from all nominations in 2010, including cost savings and increases in revenue, was over $17 million. We also documented an environmental impact of: 118 million pounds of CO2 averted 6 million pounds of waste eliminated 5 million gallons of water saved AGreif’s 2019 CDP Score Gold Recognition from 93.9% Average Together for EcoVadis Sustainability Score Demonstrating excellence in carbon management, governance, strategy and best Received for our commitment to Corporate Our audited facilities are contributing to practices, and outperforming the overall and Social Responsibility, placing us in the top four developing industry-wide sustainability North American average CDP score of C. percent of all assessed suppliers. standards for suppliers to chemical manufacturers. © Copyright 2020 Greif. All Rights Reserved. 71 GRI Content Index General Standard Disclosures GRI INDICATOR DESCRIPTION LOCATION Organizational Pro le GRI 102: General Disclosures 2016 102-1 Name of the organization Greif Inc. GRI 102: General Disclosures 2016 102-2 Activities, brands, products, and services Products, Services, and Markets 2019 Annual Report, Item 1, pp. 8-11 GRI 102: General Disclosures 2016 102-3 Location of headquarters Delaware, OH GRI 102: General Disclosures 2016 102-4 Location of operations Countries of Operation Global Footprint GRI 102: General Disclosures 2016 102-5 Ownership and legal form 2019 Annual Report, p. 4 GRI 102: General Disclosures 2016 102-6 Markets served Countries of Operation Global Footprint Products, Services, and Markets GRI 102: General Disclosures 2016 102-7 Scale of the organization Organizational Overview 2019 Annual Report, p. 4, Item 8, p. 58 GRI 102: General Disclosures 2016 102-8 Information on employees and other workers Our Workforce GRI 102: General Disclosures 2016 102-9 Supply chain Stakeholder Engagement & Materiality GRI 102: General Disclosures 2016 102-10 Signi cant changes to the organization and its supply chain 2019 Annual Report, pp. 46-48, Note 6, p. 80 GRI 102: General Disclosures 2016 102-11 Precautionary Principle or approach Addressing Risk 2019 Proxy Statement, pp. 24-25 GRI 102: General Disclosures 2016 102-12 External initiatives About Our Report; Governance, Policies & Partnerships GRI 102: General Disclosures 2016 102-13 Memberships of associations Trade Associations Strategy GRI 102: General Disclosures 2016 102-14 Statement from senior decision-maker Executive Letter Ethics and Integrity GRI 102: General Disclosures 2016 102-16 Values, principles, standards, and norms of behavior Governance, Policies & Partnerships; Ethics & Compliance The Greif Way Governance GRI 102: General Disclosures 2016 102-18 Governance structure Governance, Policies & Partnerships 2019 Proxy Statement, pp. 23-24 GRI 102: General Disclosures 2016 102-20 Executive-level responsibility for economic, environmental, and social topics Governance, Policies & Partnerships GRI 102: General Disclosures 2016 102-23 Chair of the highest governance body Michael Gasser serves as Chairman of the Board of Directors; Peter Watson serves as President and Chief Executive O cer Stakeholder Engagement GRI 102: General Disclosures 2016 102-40 List of stakeholder groups Stakeholder Engagement & Materiality GRI 102: General Disclosures 2016 102-41 Collective bargaining agreements Human Rights & Fair Labor Practices; Performance Dashboard Our Workforce GRI 102: General Disclosures 2016 102-42 Identifying and selecting stakeholders Stakeholder Engagement & Materiality GRI 102: General Disclosures 2016 102-43 Approach to stakeholder engagement Stakeholder Engagement & Materiality GRI 102: General Disclosures 2016 102-44 Key topics and concerns raised Stakeholder Engagement & Materiality Reporting Practices GRI 102: General Disclosures 2016 102-45 Entities included in the consolidated nancial statements Greif's Signi cant Subsidiaries 2019 Annual Report, Exhibit 21, pp. 123-124 GRI 102: General Disclosures 2016 102-46 De ning report content and topic Boundaries Stakeholder Engagement & Materiality GRI 102: General Disclosures 2016 102-47 List of material topics Stakeholder Engagement & Materiality GRI 102: General Disclosures 2016 102-48 Restatements of information Performance Dashboard GRI 102: General Disclosures 2016 102-49 Changes in reporting Report topics based on 2017 Stakeholder Engagement & Materiality GRI 102: General Disclosures 2016 102-50 Reporting period About Our Report GRI 102: General Disclosures 2016 102-51 Date of most recent report 2019 Sustainability Report GRI 102: General Disclosures 2016 102-52 Reporting cycle Annual GRI 102: General Disclosures 2016 102-53 Contact point for questions regarding the report About Our Report 72 GRI 102: General Disclosures 2016 102-54 Claims of reporting in accordance with the GRI Standards This report has been prepared in accordance with the GRI Standards: Core option GRI 102: General Disclosures 2016 102-55 GRI content index GRI Content Index GRI 102: General Disclosures 2016 102-56 External assurance Emission data assured through Bureau Veritas Speci c Standard Disclosures GRI INDICATOR DESCRIPTION LOCATION OMISSIONS Economic Topics ECONOMIC PERFORMANCE GRI 103: Management Approach 2016 103-1 Explanation of the material topic and its Boundary 2019 Annual Report GRI 103: Management Approach 2016 103-2 Explain management approach components 2019 Annual Report GRI 103: Management Approach 2016 103-3 Evaluate management approach Financial Performance & Pro table Growth 2019 Annual Report GRI 201: Economic Performance 2016 201-1 Direct economic value generated and distributed 2019 Annual Report GRI 201: Economic Performance 2016 201-2 Financial implications and other risks and opportunities due to climate change 2019 Annual Report, Item 1A, pp. 20, 22 GRI 201: Economic Performance 2016 201-3 De ned bene t plan obligations and other retirement plans 2019 Annual Report, Note 12, pp. 93-100 ANTI-CORRUPTION GRI 103: Management Approach 2016 103-1 Explanation of the material topic and its Boundary Ethics & Compliance Anti-Bribery Compliance Policy Code of Business Conduct and Ethics Corporate Governance Guidelines Insider Trading Policy GRI 103: Management Approach 2016 103-2 Explain management approach components Ethics & Compliance Anti-Bribery Compliance Policy Code of Business Conduct and Ethics Corporate Governance Guidelines Insider Trading Policy GRI 103: Management Approach 2016 103-3 Evaluate management approach Ethics & Compliance Anti-Bribery Compliance Policy Code of Business Conduct and Ethics Corporate Governance Guidelines Insider Trading Policy GRI 205: Anti-corruption 2016 205-1 Operations assessed for risks related to corruption Ethics & Compliance Anti-Bribery Compliance Policy GRI 205: Anti-corruption 2016 205-2 Communication and training about anti-corruption policies and procedures Ethics & Compliance Anti-Bribery Compliance Policy GRI 205: Anti-corruption 2016 205-3 Con rmed incidents of corruption and actions taken Greif is not aware of con rmed incidents of corruption ANTI-COMPETITIVE BEHAVIOR GRI 103: Management Approach 2016 103-1 Explanation of the material topic and its Boundary Ethics & Compliance Antitrust/Competition Compliance Policy GRI 103: Management Approach 2016 103-2 Explain management approach components Ethics & Compliance Antitrust/Competition Compliance Policy GRI 103: Management Approach 2016 103-3 Evaluate management approach Ethics & Compliance Antitrust/Competition Compliance Policy GRI 206: Anti-competitive behavior 2016 206-1 Legal actions for anti-competitive behavior, anti-trust, and monopoly practices Zero CUSTOMER SERVICE EXCELLENCE GRI 103: Management Approach 2016 103-1 Explanation of the material topic and its Boundary Customer Service Excellence GRI 103: Management Approach 2016 103-2 Explain management approach components Customer Service Excellence GRI 103: Management Approach 2016 103-3 Evaluate management approach Customer Service Excellence Customer Satisfaction Index Customer Service Excellence Net Promoter Score Customer Service Excellence INNOVATION GRI 103: Management Approach 2016 103-1 Explanation of the material topic and its Boundary Innovation GRI 103: Management Approach 2016 103-2 Explain management approach components Innovation GRI 103: Management Approach 2016 103-3 Evaluate management approach Innovation Percentage of revenue from sustainability-tagged products 11% RISK MANAGEMENT & BUSINESS CONTINUITY GRI 103: Management Approach 2016 103-1 Explanation of the material topic and its Boundary Risk Management & Business Continuity GRI 103: Management Approach 2016 103-2 Explain management approach components Risk Management & Business Continuity GRI 103: Management Approach 2016 103-3 Evaluate management approach Risk Management & Business Continuity 73 Signi cant business continuity issues in 2019 Greif did not experience any business continuity issues that resulted in missed customer orders in 2019. Environmental Topics MATERIALS GRI 103: Management Approach 2016 103-1 Explanation of the material topic and its Boundary Waste; Innovation GRI 103: Management Approach 2016 103-2 Explain management approach components Waste; Innovation GRI 103: Management Approach 2016 103-3 Evaluate management approach Waste; Innovation GRI 301: Materials 2016 301-3 Reclaimed products and their packaging materials Waste; Performance Dashboard ENERGY GRI 103: Management Approach 2016 103-1 Explanation of the material topic and its Boundary Climate Strategy, Energy & Emissions GRI 103: Management Approach 2016 103-2 Explain management approach components Climate Strategy, Energy & Emissions GRI 103: Management Approach 2016 103-3 Evaluate management approach Climate Strategy, Energy & Emissions GRI 302: Energy 2016 302-1 Energy consumption within the organization Climate Strategy, Energy & Emissions; Performance Dashboard; UNGC COP GRI 302: Energy 2016 302-4 Reduction of energy consumption Climate Strategy, Energy & Emissions; Performance Dashboard WATER GRI 103: Management Approach 2016 103-1 Explanation of the material topic and its Boundary Water GRI 103: Management Approach 2016 103-2 Explain management approach components Water GRI 103: Management Approach 2016 103-3 Evaluate management approach Water GRI 303: Water 2016 303-1 Water withdrawal by source Performance Dashboard GRI 303: Water 2016 303-2 Water sources signi cantly a ected by withdrawal of water Performance Dashboard; Water GRI 303: Water 2016 303-3 Water recycled and reused Performance Dashboard BIODIVERSITY GRI 103: Management Approach 2016 103-1 Explanation of the material topic and its Boundary Biodiversity GRI 103: Management Approach 2016 103-2 Explain management approach components Biodiversity GRI 103: Management Approach 2016 103-3 Evaluate management approach Biodiversity GRI 304: Biodiversity 2016 304-3 Habitats protected or restored Biodiversity EMISSIONS GRI 103: Management Approach 2016 103-1 Explanation of the material topic and its Boundary Climate Strategy, Energy & Emissions GRI 103: Management Approach 2016 103-2 Explain management approach components Climate Strategy, Energy & Emissions GRI 103: Management Approach 2016 103-3 Evaluate management approach Climate Strategy, Energy & Emissions GRI 305: Emissions 2016 305-1.2 Explain whether o sets were used Performance Dashboard GRI 305: Emissions 2016 305-1 Direct (Scope 1) GHG emissions Climate Strategy, Energy & Emissions; Performance Dashboard GRI 305: Emissions 2016 305-2 Energy indirect (Scope 2) GHG emissions Climate Strategy, Energy & Emissions; Performance Dashboard GRI 305: Emissions 2016 305-3 Other indirect (Scope 3) GHG emissions Climate Strategy, Energy & Emissions; Performance Dashboard GRI 305: Emissions 2016 305-4 GHG emissions intensity Climate Strategy, Energy & Emissions; Performance Dashboard GRI 305: Emissions 2016 305-5 Reduction of GHG emissions Climate Strategy, Energy & Emissions; Performance Dashboard EFFLUENTS AND WASTE GRI 103: Management Approach 2016 103-1 Explanation of the material topic and its Boundary Water; Waste GRI 103: Management Approach 2016 103-2 Explain management approach components Water; Waste GRI 103: Management Approach 2016 103-3 Evaluate management approach Water; Waste GRI 306: E uents and Waste 2016 306-1 Water discharge by quality and destination Water; Performance Dashboard GRI 306: E uents and Waste 2016 306-2 Waste by type and disposal method Water; Performance Dashboard 74 GRI 306: E uents and Waste 2016 306-3 Signi cant spills Performance Dashboard; Water Zero GRI 306: E uents and Waste 2016 306-5 Water bodies a ected by water discharges and/or runo Water; Performance Dashboard ENVIRONMENTAL COMPLIANCE GRI 103: Management Approach 2016 103-1 Explanation of the material topic and its Boundary Environmental Management Systems GRI 103: Management Approach 2016 103-2 Explain management approach components Environmental Management Systems GRI 103: Management Approach 2016 103-3 Evaluate management approach Environmental Management Systems GRI 307: Environmental Compliance 2016 307-1 Non-compliance with environmental laws and regulations Cradle to Cradle Manufacturing, Reconditioning & Recycling Container Life Cycle Management SUPPLY CHAIN MANAGEMENT GRI 103: Management Approach 2016 103-1 Explanation of the material topic and its Boundary Supply Chain Management GRI 103: Management Approach 2016 103-2 Explain management approach components Supply Chain Management GRI 103: Management Approach 2016 103-3 Evaluate management approach Supply Chain Management Annual EcoVadis score Gold END-OF-LIFE RECONDITIONING, REUSE & RECYCLING GRI 103: Management Approach 2016 103-1 Explanation of the material topic and its Boundary Cradle to Cradle Manufacturing, Reconditioning & Recycling GRI 103: Management Approach 2016 103-2 Explain management approach components Cradle to Cradle Manufacturing, Reconditioning & Recycling GRI 103: Management Approach 2016 103-3 Evaluate management approach Cradle to Cradle Manufacturing, Reconditioning & Recycling Drums and IBCs Reconditioned Performance Dashboard; Waste Social Topics EMPLOYMENT GRI 103: Management Approach 2016 103-1 Explanation of the material topic and its Boundary Talent Attraction, Development & Retention GRI 103: Management Approach 2016 103-2 Explain management approach components Talent Attraction, Development & Retention GRI 103: Management Approach 2016 103-3 Evaluate management approach Talent Attraction, Development & Retention GRI 401: Employment 2016 401-1 New employee hires and employee turnover Talent Attraction, Development & Retention; Performance Dashboard GRI 401: Employment 2016 401-3 Parental leave Talent Attraction, Development & Retention OCCUPATIONAL HEALTH AND SAFETY GRI 103: Management Approach 2016 103-1 Explanation of the material topic and its Boundary Health & Safety GRI 103: Management Approach 2016 103-2 Explain management approach components Health & Safety GRI 103: Management Approach 2016 103-3 Evaluate management approach Health & Safety GRI 403: Occupational Health and Safety 2016 403-1 Workers representation in formal joint management–worker health and safety Health & Safety committees GRI 403: Occupational Health and Safety 2016 403-2 Types of injury and rates of injury, occupational diseases, lost days, and Health & Safety; absenteeism, and number of work-related fatalities Performance Dashboard GRI 403: Occupational Health and Safety 2016 403-4 Health and safety topics covered in formal agreements with trade unions Health & Safety TRAINING AND EDUCATION GRI 103: Management Approach 2016 103-1 Explanation of the material topic and its Boundary Talent Attraction, Development & Retention GRI 103: Management Approach 2016 103-2 Explain management approach components Talent Attraction, Development & Retention GRI 103: Management Approach 2016 103-3 Evaluate management approach Talent Attraction, Development & Retention GRI 404: Training and Education 2016 404-1 Average hours of training per year per employee Talent Attraction, Development & Retention; Performance Dashboard GRI 404: Training and Education 2016 404-2 Programs for upgrading employee skills and transition assistance programs Talent Attraction, Development & Retention Outplacement support may be provided when appropriate to support career endings and facility closures, determined by local management discretion. GRI 404: Training and Education 2016 404-3 Percentage of employees receiving regular performance and career Talent Attraction, Development & Retention development reviews DIVERSITY AND EQUAL OPPORTUNITY GRI 103: Management Approach 2016 103-1 Explanation of the material topic and its Boundary Human Rights & Fair Labor Practices Equal Employment Opportunity and Diversity Policy GRI 103: Management Approach 2016 103-2 Explain management approach components Human Rights & Fair Labor Practices Equal Employment Opportunity and Diversity Policy 75 GRI 103: Management Approach 2016 103-3 Evaluate management approach Human Rights & Fair Labor Practices Equal Employment Opportunity and Diversity Policy GRI 405: Diversity and Equal Opportunity 2016 405-2 Ratio of basic salary and remuneration of women to men Performance Dashboard NON-DISCRIMINATION GRI 103: Management Approach 2016 103-1 Explanation of the material topic and its Boundary Human Rights & Fair Labor Practices Equal Employment Opportunity and Diversity Policy GRI 103: Management Approach 2016 103-2 Explain management approach components Human Rights & Fair Labor Practices Equal Employment Opportunity and Diversity Policy GRI 103: Management Approach 2016 103-3 Evaluate management approach Human Rights & Fair Labor Practices Equal Employment Opportunity and Diversity Policy GRI 406: Non-discrimination 2016 406-1 Incidents of discrimination and corrective actions taken No incidents reported FREEDOM OF ASSOCIATION AND COLLECTIVE BARGAINING GRI 103: Management Approach 2016 103-1 Explanation of the material topic and its Boundary Human Rights & Fair Labor Practices Human Rights Policy GRI 103: Management Approach 2016 103-2 Explain management approach components Human Rights & Fair Labor Practices Human Rights Policy GRI 103: Management Approach 2016 103-3 Evaluate management approach Human Rights & Fair Labor Practices Human Rights Policy GRI 407: Freedom of Association and Collectiv 407-1 Operations and suppliers in which the right to freedom of association and Human Rights & Fair Labor Practices collective bargaining may be at risk CHILD LABOR GRI 103: Management Approach 2016 103-1 Explanation of the material topic and its Boundary Human Rights & Fair Labor Practices Child Labor Policy GRI 103: Management Approach 2016 103-2 Explain management approach components Human Rights & Fair Labor Practices Child Labor Policy GRI 103: Management Approach 2016 103-3 Evaluate management approach Human Rights & Fair Labor Practices Child Labor Policy GRI 408: Child Labor 2016 408-1 Operations and suppliers at signi cant risk for incidents of child labor No signi cant risks have been identi ed FORCED OR COMPULSORY LABOR GRI 103: Management Approach 2016 103-1 Explanation of the material topic and its Boundary Human Rights & Fair Labor Practices Human Rights Policy GRI 103: Management Approach 2016 103-2 Explain management approach components Human Rights & Fair Labor Practices Human Rights Policy GRI 103: Management Approach 2016 103-3 Evaluate management approach Human Rights & Fair Labor Practices Human Rights Policy GRI 409: Forced of Compulsory Labor 2016 409-1 Operations and suppliers at signi cant risk for incidents of forced or compulsory No signi cant risks have been identi ed labor HUMAN RIGHTS ASSESSMENT GRI 103: Management Approach 2016 103-1 Explanation of the material topic and its Boundary Human Rights & Fair Labor Practices Human Rights Policy GRI 103: Management Approach 2016 103-2 Explain management approach components Human Rights & Fair Labor Practices Human Rights Policy GRI 103: Management Approach 2016 103-3 Evaluate management approach Human Rights & Fair Labor Practices Human Rights Policy GRI: 412: Human Rights Assessment 2016 412-2 Employee training on human rights policies or procedures Ethics & Compliance CUSTOMER HEALTH AND SAFETY GRI 103: Management Approach 2016 103-1 Explanation of the material topic and its Boundary Product Quality GRI 103: Management Approach 2016 103-2 Explain management approach components Product Quality GRI 103: Management Approach 2016 103-3 Evaluate management approach Product Quality GRI 416: Customer Health and Safety 2016 416-2 Incidents of non-compliance concerning the health and safety impacts of Product Quality; products and services Performance Dashboard CUSTOMER PRIVACY GRI 103: Management Approach 2016 103-1 Explanation of the material topic and its Boundary Security 2019 Annual Report, p. 20 GRI 103: Management Approach 2016 103-2 Explain management approach components Security 2019 Annual Report, p. 20 GRI 103: Management Approach 2016 103-3 Evaluate management approach Security 2019 Annual Report, p. 20 GRI 418: Customer Privacy 2016 418-1 Substantiated complaints concerning breaches of customer privacy and losses of Security customer data 76 93.9% Average Together for 17.77 Average Safety Training 78.4% Reduction in Sustainability Score Hours Biochemical Oxygen Demand Our audited facilities are contributing to Each production colleague in our business developing industry-wide sustainability receives safety training, ensuring our safety Our e orts in water quality have allowed us to standards for suppliers to chemical culture is understood and practiced every day. already meet our 10% reduction by 2025 goal. manufacturers. © Copyright 2020 Greif. All Rights Reserved. 77 UNGC COP PRINCIPLE PRINCIPLE DESCRIPTION LOCATION 1 Businesses should support and respect the protection of internationally proclaimed human rights Policies Environmental Health & Safety Policy Fair Treatment of Others Policy Human Rights Policy Implementation Health & Safety Human Rights & Fair Labor Practices Supply Chain Management 2 Businesses should make sure they are not complicit in human rights abuses Policies Con ict Minerals Policy Con ict Minerals Report Human Rights Policy Supplier Code of Conduct Implementation Health & Safety Human Rights & Fair Labor Practices Supply Chain Management 3 Businesses should uphold the freedom of association and the e ective recognition of the right to Policies collective bargaining Human Rights Policy Implementation Health & Safety Human Rights & Fair Labor Practices Our Workforce Risk Management & Business Continuity Supply Chain Management 4 Businesses should uphold the elimination of all forms of forced and compulsory labor Policies Child Labor Policy Human Rights Policy Supplier Code of Conduct Transparency in Supply Chain Disclosure Implementation Human Rights & Fair Labor Practices 5 Businesses should uphold the e ective abolition of child labor Policies Child Labor Policy Human Rights Policy Implementation Human Rights & Fair Labor Practices 6 Businesses should uphold the elimination of discrimination in respect of employment and occupation Policies Anti-Harassment and Anti-Discrimination Policy Human Rights Policy Equal Employment Opportunity and Diversity Fair Treatment of Others Policy Implementation Human Rights & Fair Labor Practices Talent Attraction, Development & Retention 7 Businesses should support a precautionary approach to environmental challenges Policies Environmental Health and Safety Policy Greif Code of Business Conduct Implementation Executive Letter Innovation Reducing our Footprint Risk Management & Business Continuity Governance, Policies & Partnerships 8 Businesses should undertake initiatives to promote greater environmental responsibility Policies Environmental Health & Safety Policy Greif Code of Business Conduct Implementation Advancing Circular Economy Executive Letter Governance, Policies & Partnerships Reducing our Footprint Stakeholder Engagement & Materiality Sustainability Goals 78 PRINCIPLE PRINCIPLE DESCRIPTION LOCATION 9 Businesses should encourage the development and di usion of environmentally friendly technologies Policies Environmental Health & Safety Policy Implementation Advancing Circular Economy Reducing our Footprint 10 Businesses should work against corruption in all its forms, including extortion and bribery Policies Anti-Bribery & Sanctions Policy Antitrust/Competition Compliance Policy Code of Business Conduct and Ethics Economic and Trade Sanctions Policy Insider Trading Policy Supplier Code of Conduct Implementation About This Report Ethics & Compliance Governance, Policies & Partnerships Supplier Code of Conduct 11.0% Emissions Intensity 31 Facilities Achieving Zero Reduction Waste to Land ll Against our 2014 baseline in support of our Our e orts to reduce waste are global, with 2020 goal. each facility working towards our 2025 goal. © Copyright 2020 Greif. All Rights Reserved. 79 UN SDG Content Index SDG RELEVANT INDICATORS SUPPORTING METRICS MATERIAL TOPIC ALIGNMENT Good Health and Well-being Ensure healthy lives and promote well-being for all at all ages 3.7: By 2030, ensure universal access to sexual and reproductive Providing maternity or paternity leave Talent Attraction, Development & Retention health-care services, including for family planning, information and education, and the integration of reproductive health into national strategies and programmes 3.9: By 2030, substantially reduce the number of deaths and Performance Dashboard: GRI 305-1, 305-2, 305-3 Waste illnesses from hazardous chemicals and air, water and soil Supply Chain Management pollution and contamination Biodiversity Health & Safety Human Rights & Fair Labor Practices Quality Education Ensure inclusive and equitable quality education and promote lifelong learning opportunities for all. 4.1 By 2030, ensure that all girls and boys complete free, Enforcing zero-tolerance child labor policies within Human Rights and Fair Labor Practices equitable and quality primary and secondary education leading own operations, and in uencing child labor policies to relevant and e ective learning outcomes within the supply chain 4.3 By 2030, ensure equal access for all women and men to Performance Dashboard: GRI 404-1 Talent Attraction, Development & Retention a ordable and quality technical, vocational and tertiary education, including university 4.7 By 2030, ensure that all learners acquire the knowledge and Including information on human rights, gender Supply Chain Management skills needed to promote sustainable development, including, equality and sustainable development in internal Health & Safety among others, through education for sustainable development policies, such as employee and supplier codes of and sustainable lifestyles, human rights, gender equality, conduct, and increasing awareness and practice by promotion of a culture of peace and non-violence, global ensuring that these policies are thoroughly shared citizenship and appreciation of cultural diversity and of culture’s and understood by all employees including those in contribution to sustainable development the supply chain Gender Equality Achieve gender equality and empower all women and girls 5.1 End all forms of discrimination against all women and girls Including non-discrimination clauses in supplier code Human Rights and Fair Labor Practices everywhere of conduct policies and supporting suppliers in Supply Chain Management advancing gender equality and women’s empowerment. 5.5 Ensure women’s full and e ective participation and equal Performance Dashboard: GRI 406-1 Talent Attraction, Development & Retention opportunities for leadership at all levels of decision-making in political, economic and public life Clean Water and Sanitation Ensure access to water and sanitation for all 6.3 By 2030, improve water quality by reducing pollution, Performance Dashboard: GRI 303-3, 306-1 Environmental Management Systems eliminating dumping and minimizing release of hazardous Water chemicals and materials, halving the proportion of untreated wastewater and substantially increasing recycling and safe Waste reuse globally 6.6 By 2020, protect and restore water-related ecosystems, Performance Dashboard: GRI 304-3 Biodiversity including mountains, forests, wetlands, rivers, aquifers and lakes Decent Work and Economic Growth Promote sustained, inclusive and sustainable economic growth, full and productive employment and decent work for all 8.2: Achieve higher levels of economic productivity through Improving the e ciency of use of energy, water, Innovation diversi cation, technological upgrading and innovation, (raw) materials and other resources. including through a focus on high-value added and labourintensive sectors 8.4: Improve progressively, through 2030, global resource Performance Dashboard: GRI 302-1 Product Quality e ciency in consumption and production and endeavour to Innovation decouple economic growth from environmental degradation End-of-Life Reconditioning, Reuse & Recycling 8.7: Take immediate and e ective measures to eradicate forced Performance Dashboard: GRI 408-1 Human Rights & Fair Labor Practices labour, end modern slavery and human tra cking and secure the prohibition and elimination of the worst forms of child labour, including recruitment and use of child soldiers, and by 2025 end child labour in all its forms 8.8: Protect labour rights and promote safe and secure working Performance Dashboard: GRI 403-2 Health & Safety environments for all workers, including migrant workers, in particular women migrants, and those in precarious employment 80 Industry, Innovation and Infrastructure Build resilient infrastructure, promote sustainable industrialization and foster innovation 9.2: Promote inclusive and sustainable industrialization and, by Embedding policies which promote diversity and Talent Attraction, Development & Retention 2030, signi cantly raise industry’s share of employment and inclusion throughout own operations, and gross domestic product, in line with national circumstances, and encouraging suppliers and other business partners double its share in least developed countries to do the same. 9.4: By 2030, upgrade infrastructure and retro t industries to Performance Dashboard: GRI 305-4 Product Quality make them sustainable, with increased resource-use e ciency Customer Service Excellence and greater adoption of clean and environmentally sound technologies and industrial processes, with all countries taking Environmental Management Systems action in accordance with their respective capabilities Climate Strategy, Energy & Emissions Innovation End-of-Life Reconditioning, Reuse, & Recycling Reduced Inequalities Reduce inequality within and among countries 10.2 By 2030, empower and promote the social, economic and Embedding policies which promote diversity and Talent Attraction, Development & Retention political inclusion of all, irrespective of age, sex, disability, race, inclusion throughout own operations, and ethnicity, origin, religion or economic or other status encouraging suppliers and other business partners to do the same. 10.3 Ensure equal opportunity and reduce inequalities of Ensuring non-discrimination across business Ethics & Compliance outcome, including by eliminating discriminatory laws, policies operations including remuneration and bene ts, and practices and promoting appropriate legislation, policies product impact (for example the impact of product and action in this regard design on harmful gender stereotypes), and the inclusion of the supply chain 10.4 Adopt policies, especially scal, wage and social protection Paying at a minimum the living wage and providing Risk Management & Business Continuity policies, and progressively achieve greater equality insurance for employees, such as income protection, life or accident insurance and social security Responsible Consumption and Production Ensure sustainable consumption and production patterns 12.2: By 2030, achieve the sustainable management and Performance Dashboard: 302-1, 302-4 Environmental Management Systems e cient use of natural resources 12.4: By 2020, achieve the environmentally sound management Performance Dashboard: GRI 306-2 Environmental Management Systems of chemicals and all wastes throughout their life cycle, in Innovation accordance with agreed international frameworks, and signi cantly reduce their release to air, water and soil in order to minimize their adverse impacts on human health and the environment 12.5: By 2030, substantially reduce waste generation through Performance Dashboard: GRI 306-2 Waste prevention, reduction, recycling and reuse Supply Chain Management End-of-Life Reconditioning, Reuse, & Recycling 12.6: Encourage companies, especially large and transnational Reporting economic, social and environmental Biodiversity companies, to adopt sustainable practices and to integrate sustainability using a common international sustainability information into their reporting cycle reporting standard/framework Climate Action Take urgent action to combat climate change and its impacts 13.1: Strengthen resilience and adaptive capacity to climateGRI Content Index; GRI 201-2 Climate Strategy, Energy & Emissions related hazards and natural disasters in all countries Risk Management & Business Continuity Innovation End-of-Life Reconditioning, Reuse & Recycling 294 LEAP Participants 1.49 Medical Case Rate 290 290 sites around the world Since 2014, 294 colleagues have participated Down 57 percent since 2007. in LEAP, our three-week leadership Our global reach is near you. development program. © Copyright 2020 Greif. All Rights Reserved. 81 SASB Index TOPIC METRIC CATEGORY UNIT OF MEASUREMENT CODE RESPONSE/COMMENT Greenhouse Gross global Scope 1 emissions, Quantitative Metric tons (t) CO2-e, RT-CP-110a.1 Performance Dashboard Gas percentage covered under Percentage (%) Emissions Emissions emissions-limiting regulations 0% of Greif’s emissions are covered under emissionslimiting regulations Discussion of long-term and Discussion and Analysis N/A RT-CP-110a.2 Climate Strategy, Energy short-term strategy or plan to & Emissions manage Scope 1 emissions, CDP Climate Change C3, emissions reduction targets, C4, C5 and an analysis of performance against those targets Air Quality Air emissions of the following Quantitative Metric tons (t) RT-CP-120a.1 Greif does not currently pollutants: (1) NOx (excluding report this data. We will N2O), (2) SOx, (3) volatile evaluate our ability to report organic compounds (VOCs), and this data in our 2020 report. (4) particulate matter (PM) Energy (1) Total energy consumed, (2) Quantitative Gigajoules (GJ), Percentage (%) RT-CP-130a.1 Performance Dashboard Management percentage grid electricity, (3) Energy percentage renewable, (4) total CDP Climate Change self-generated energy C8.2e, C8.2f Water (1) Total water withdrawn, (2) Quantitative Thousand cubic meters (m³), RT-CP-140a.1 Greif currently reports total Management total water consumed, Percentage (%) water withdrawn and percentage of each in regions consumed within the with High or Extremely High relevant boundary of our Baseline Water Stress organization, but does not currently report this data by regions with high levels of water stress. We will evaluate our ability to report this data in our 2020 report. Description of water Quantitative Number RT-CP-140a.2 Water management risks and discussion of strategies and practices to mitigate those risks Number of incidents of nonQuantitative Number RT-CP-140a.3 Zero compliance associated with water quality permits, standards, and regulations Waste Amount of hazardous waste Quantitative Metric tons (t), Percentage (%) RT-CP-150a.1 Performance Dashboard Management generated, percentage recycled Waste Stream Product Number of recalls issued, total Quantitative Number RT-CP-250a.1 Zero Safety units recalled Discussion of process to identify Discussion and Analysis N/A RT-CP-250a.2 Greif currently conducts and manage emerging health and safety materials and chemicals of assessments for any new concern chemicals, materials or equipment that will be introduced in our company. Please Environmental Management Systems for more information about these processes. In 2020 Greif will be conducting a chemical safety assessment in support of building a more enhanced and formalized chemical safety program. We will report our progress on this initiative in our 2020 report. Product Percentage of raw materials Quantitative Percentage (%) by weight RT-CP-410a.1 Performance Dashboard Lifecycle from: (1) recycled content, (2) Product Lifecycle Management renewable resources, and (3) Management renewable and recycled content Revenue from products that are Quantitative Reporting currency RT-CP-410a.2 Performance Dashboard reusable, recyclable, and/or Product Lifecycle compostable Management Discussion of strategies to Discussion and Analysis N/A RT-CP-410a.3 Cradle-to-Cradle reduce the environmental Reconditioning, Reuse & impact of packaging throughout Recycling its lifecycle Innovation Supply Chain Management Waste 82 TOPIC METRIC CATEGORY UNIT OF MEASUREMENT CODE RESPONSE/COMMENT Supply Chain Total wood ber procured, Quantitative Metric tons (t), Percentage (%) RT-CP-430a.1 In FY19 Greif purchased Management percentage from certi ed 411,541 metric tons of virgin sources wood ber. Weight of the ber is based on weight at received moisture, which can include approximately 50 percent water weight. 100 percent of ber is sourced under an SFIcerti ed Procurement program. All wood ber is procured by our Riverville mill. Total aluminum purchased, Quantitative Metric tons (t) CO₂-e, RT-CP-430a.2 Greif purchased 62 metric percentage from certi ed Percentage (%) tons of aluminum in FY2019. sources 100% was from certi ed sources. Activity Amount of production, by Quantitative Metric tons (t) RT-CP-000.A Performance Dashboard Metrics substrate Activity Metrics Percentage of production as: (1) Quantitative Percentage (%) by revenue RT-CP-000.B Performance Dashboard paper/wood, (2) glass, (3) metal, Activity Metrics and (4) plastic Number of employees Quantitative Number RT-CP-000.C 17,000 31 Facilities Achieving Zero Waste to Land ll Our e orts to reduce waste are global, with each facility working towards our 2025 goal. © Copyright 2020 Greif. All Rights Reserved. 83
