FY2019 CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY REPORT TABLE OF CONTENTS A Message from the CEO · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · 2 ABOUT THIS REPORT COMPANY OVERVIEW · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · 3 ABC Technologies’ FY2019 Corporate Social Responsibility (CSR) Report details our CSR program’s performance and progress toward Awards & Recognition · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · 5 facilitating our core mission — to be the world’s leading automotive components and system solutions provider for our global customers by POWERED BY PEOPLE · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · 9 delivering best-in-class products and services that are rooted in cuttingProduction Safety · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · 10 edge innovation. Employee Engagement · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · 17 The information presented in this report reflects the operations of ABC Technologies for the fiscal year 2019 (July 1, 2018 – June 30, 2019). PRODUCTS MADE FOR OUR CUSTOMERS · · · 27 This is our first CSR report and it is our goal to produce an updated Sustainability & Product Design · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · 29 report annually. Content in this report covers all operations, including Supply Chain Management · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · 32 manufacturing, distribution, and administrative offices, in 37 locations globally including Canada, United States of America, Mexico, Brazil, Spain, Poland, China, Germany and Japan. GUIDED BY ETHICS AND DRIVEN BY All dollar amounts herein are in United States Dollar. GOVERNANCE · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · 35 Code of Ethics & Business Conduct · · · · · · · · · · · · · · 35 We encourage feedback on this report. Please submit any questions or Corporate Governance · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · 36 comments by email to csr@abctech.com United Nations Global Compact Agreement · · · · · · · · · 37 COMMUNITY ENGAGEMENT · · · · · · · · · · · 39 Community Initiatives · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · 41 PLUGGED INTO THE ENVIRONMENT · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · 43 Environmental Compliance · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · 44 Energy Reduction Case Studies · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · 47 2 A MESSAGE FROM THE CEO ABC Technologies’ FY2019 Corporate Social Responsibility (CSR) Report details our CSR program’s performance and progress toward facilitating our core mission — to be the “Premier Supplier of Custom Engineered Technical Plastics” for our global customers enabling continual Innovation in Lightweighting Technology Solutions. Corporate social responsibility (CSR) is ABC’s commitment to manage the social, environmental and economic effects of our operations responsibly and in line with expectations of our customers, employees, owners and the overall social environment. CSR is a critical part of ABC’s approach to corporate governance and touches every part of the business, including engineering, human resources, manufacturing, supply chain, finance, health and safety, and more. As part of our ongoing commitment to our CSR activities, we are committed to: • Policies and expectations that assure we operate internally and externally with all our employees, customers and partners using ethical business practices • Reinvesting profits in health, safety and environmentally responsible programs • Supporting charitable organizations in the communities in which we operate • Promoting equal opportunities and a safe work environment for all employees regardless of location, background, race, religion, gender or social orientation We encourage feedback on this report. Please submit any questions or comments by email to csr@abctech.com. Todd Sheppelman President & Chief Executive Officer ABC Plastic Moulding Circa1974. COMPANY OVERVIEW A privately owned Canadian company since 1974, ABC Technologies is one of the world’s leading automotive systems and components ABC Technologies‘ Six Drivers of CSR Framework. manufacturers for the global automotive industry. We cover every facet of the plastics processing technologies, systems CSR PROGRAM OVERVIEW ABC Technologies is committed to having a positive impact by supporting the environment, customers, our people, and community and components for the global automotive industry Fluid Management, members. Our program is anchored by our Corporate Social HVAC Distribution Systems, Flexible Products, Interior, Exterior, and Air Responsibility (CSR) Policy, which guides ABC Technologies’ operations Induction Systems. Ranked as one of the top industrial automotive blowfor sustainable performance in accordance with the core values of the molders and injection-molders in North America, our manufacturing company. The policy sets forth the six ‘drivers’ of CSR that align with processes include Blow and Injection Molding, Thermoforming, Sheet the company’s scope of operations and practices, including (1) our Extrusion, Interior/Exterior Painting and Material Compounding. We people, (2) customer centered products/innovation, (3) business ethics, provide comprehensive support services, from advanced research and (4) corporate governance, (5) community involvement & development, development to overall project management. and (6) environmental sustainability. The executive team is committed Our distinction is our vertical integration. We produce products from to including consideration of all CSR related issues in all business concept to production for a constantly growing number of unique strategies, ensuring a culture of sustainability. automotive components and systems. The research and development, Additionally, ABC Technologies is a signatory to the UN Global materials, design, testing, tooling, machines, processing technologies, Compact, an initiative to encourage businesses worldwide to adopt and secondary assembly systems are all supplied and controlled within sustainable and socially responsible policies and practices, and to our own company. To our customers this means faster development, report on their implementation. It is the world’s largest corporate increased design flexibility, improved efficiencies in manufacturing and sustainability initiative with over 13,000 participants, from over 170 assembly, significant cost savings, enhanced quality countries. The ten principles are in the areas of human rights, labor, the and performance. environment, and anti-corruption. 3 4 I NT RO DUC T I ON AWAR D S & R EC OGN I T I ON Below are few examples of the awards and recognitions ABC has recieved related to our CSR efforts. QUALITY • NTN Driveshaft Outstanding Supplier of the Year • GM Supplier Of The Year* • GM Supplier Quality Excellence • Wards Auto Interiors ‘10 Best Interiors Award’ • FCA Supplier Of The Year DIVERSITY • Nissan Supplier Diversity • FCA Supplier Diversity Award • GM Top Diversity Performer Platinum • Toyota Certificate of Achievement • CAMSC Corporation of the Year* AWARDS AND RECOGNITION • CAMSC Procurement Business Advocate of the Year • WBE Supplier Diversity Champion Globally, ABC Technologies has been recognized for the value we bring to our automotive customers. The awards and recognition we CUSTOMER • GM Customer Care & After Sales Delivery Certificate of Excellence* continually receive is a testament to the hard work and passion of our CARE • GM Overdrive Award people. Since 1992, ABC Technologies has won over 100 awards. Our focus on the quality of service, diversity in the workplace as well as with our supplier base and overall customer care are a result of our CSR * See the following page (7) for further information regarding these awards initiatives within ABC Technologies. 2018 GM Supplier of the Year Awards Night. 5 6 I NT RO DUC T I ON AWAR D S & R EC OGN I T I ON QUALITY: ABC TECHNOLOGIES HAS BEEN AWARDED GM DIVERSITY: CAMSC CORPORATION OF THE YEAR SUPPLIER OF THE YEAR AWARD 13 TIMES General Motors’ supplier of the year award is presented to General Within the last five years alone, ABC Technologies’ CAMSC certified Motors’ suppliers who exhibit best-in-class performance across many minority suppliers spend amounted to over $160 million. This was facets. This is a clear reflection of ABC Technologies’ contribution in achieved by helping business owners become certified suppliers to a mutual effort to provide GM customers with the best vehicles and ABC Technologies’ diverse supply base. Suppliers are regularly invited services in the industry. ABC Technologies has the distinct honor of to bid on projects and services. As a result, more than 43 companies being recognized with 13 awards by GM across multiple business units are now CAMSC certified, supplying goods and services to both ABC and will continue to deliver quality service and parts within our growing Technologies as well as to other tiers. partnership with General Motors. HISTORY OF ABC TECHNOLOGIES’ GM SUPPLIER OF THE YEAR AWARDS CUSTOMER CARE: GM CUSTOMER CARE & AFTERSALES PLATINUM 2018 CERTIFICATE OF EXCELLENCE Wiper Systems 2017 HVAC EXTERIOR FLUID Exterior, HVAC and ABC Climate Control Systems in Toronto, Canada was awarded in Fluid Managements 2016 FLUID Certificate of Excellence recognition for outstanding on-time shipping performance to General Wiper Systems PLATINUM Motors customer care and aftersales. This was a testament to the EXTERIOR 2015 Supplier Status is hereby granted to team at Climate Control Systems that exemplified the dedication and EXTERIOR ABC CLIMATE CONTROL SYSTEMS IN Exterior & HVAC TORONTO, ON Systems In Recognition for Outstanding 2017 On-Time Shipping Performance commitment to serve customers like GM with excellent customer 2013 to General Motors Customer Care and Aftersales AIR Scott Hans Michelle Braun INDUCTION Global Director, Global Supply Chain Executive Director, Global Purchasing Wiper Systems service. INTERIOR 2012 Interior Products 2011 HVAC HVAC Duct Products 2008 Quality, Service, Technology and Price 2003 Quality, Service, Technology and Price 2000 Fuel Systems Inc. FUEL Quality, Service, 1998 Technology and Price Quality, Service, 1997 Technology and Price Quality, Service, 1992 Technology and Price Quality, Service, Technology and Price 7 8 E N V IRON M EN TAL C OM P L I AN C E PRODUCTION SAFETY HEALTH & SAFETY Our ongoing philosophy is that one incident which causes a personal MANAGEMENT PROGRAM injury is one too many. To drive our endless commitment to the health & safety of all our people, ABC Technologies has built a world-class health & safety program that is deeply embedded throughout our manufacturing processes and culture. The comprehensive program is systematically driven throughout all operations and begins with our health & safety policy, which is supported by rigorous continuous improvement initiatives, relevant employee training sessions, frequent communication and reporting. We set the following goals and objectives in FY19 to further advance our overall injury and incident prevention performance. ZERO RECORDABLE INJURIES IDENTIFY AND ELIMINATE ALL HAZARDS AND RISKS FROM OUR BUSINESS POWERED BY PEOPLE ENVIRONMENT The employees at ABC Technologies are the foundation for the growth and success of the company. We are committed to safe working Moving forward, the program has a goal to become certified to the conditions, offering skills and career development, and an inclusive and ISO-45001 certification in 2020. Obtaining this certification will enable respectful working environment. ABC Technologies is committed to the program to receive formal recognition for the best practices utilized ensure all employees are treated fairly, with dignity and consideration, across operations. and that diversity in the workplace is both embraced and highlighted. We will apply fair labor practices, while respecting the national and local laws of the countries and communities we operate. ABC Technologies’ Global Code of Conduct highlights these and other support practices for all our employees. ABC Tech Centre Employees. 9 10 POW ER ED BY P E O PLE P R OD UC T I ON SAFET Y Management The management team is committed to the prevention of occupational illness and injury, in both the workplace and in the use of our products and services. The management team is responsible to develop, implement and maintain a health and safety management system with procedures for implementing these policy objectives and ensure that safe and healthy work conditions are maintained and legislated requirements and industry standards are being followed. Supervisors Supervisors are accountable for the health and safety of the workers they supervise and that machinery HEALTH & SAFETY POLICY ABC Technologies is committed to providing and maintaining a healthy and equipment are in safe operating condition. It is and safe workplace for all employees, contractors and visitors. Our the responsibility of every supervisor to ensure that health & safety policy sets forth our expectations for management, safe and healthy work conditions are maintained. The supervisors, and employees to continuously strive towards improving supervisor must ensure that all established company our health and safety system and for an injury free work environment safe work practices, legislated requirements and through rigorous accident/injury prevention processes including industry standards are being met and followed. violence and harassment. We will comply with all applicable safety laws and regulations and take all reasonable measures to prevent personal Employees injury, occupational illness and damage/loss of company assets. It is the responsibility of every employee to work safely Additionally, the company does not tolerate substance abuse or and to report all unsafe or unhealthy conditions to intoxication on the job and employees are expected to promptly report their supervisor immediately. Every employee must protect his or her own health and safety by working in any violations of safety rules or guidelines to supervisors. compliance with the law and with safe work practices and procedures established by the company. HEALTH & SAFETY PROGRAM We believe that clearly delineating responsibilities at each staff STAFF RESPONSIBILITIES level ensures that employees are aware of their responsibilities and expectations for supporting the achievement of organizational safety goals. The Health & Safety Program Responsibilities framework Visitors and Subcontractors below lays out responsibilities for each staff level and is routinely It is the responsibility of all visitors and subcontractors communicated. to abide by the ABC Technologies health and safety management. 11 12 POW ER ED BY P E O PLE P R OD UC T I ON SAFET Y CONTINUOUS IMPROVEMENT The pursuit of ongoing improvements is a critical focus for our EMPLOYEE TRAINING ABC Technologies provides health & safety training courses (see INITIATIVES company and progress is frequently measured against key operating PROGRAMS below), each of which are designed to address specific job and taskindicators. The health & safety management team is constantly related risks such as accident/incident investigation, forklift training, identifying and implementing a wide range of continuous improvement and lockout/tagout. Each course has a required and/or suggested initiatives to help advance overall goals and objectives. training audience and training frequency (e.g., at orientation, annually, biannually), which is based on a combination of job description, The following list provides examples of health & safety continuous regulatory requirements, and industry best practices. The courses are improvement initiatives undertaken in 2019. taught in-person by a subject matter expert who is either in-house or from an external provider. Additionally, there are also job and activity• Monthly corporate “Always Be Careful” safety message specific work instructions and training provided to employees at each • Pre-shift tool box talks specific plant. • Near miss & hazard reporting incentive (pizza party for every 150 reported & corrected) • Safety alerts • 90% corporate safety audit objectives • 2 JSA’s per general manager per plant per month FY2019 HEALTH & SAFETY TRAINING COURSE LIST • Serious Six Accident Aerial Platform Compliance Confined Space • RADAR (Non-routine work hazard assessment program) (see below) Arc Flash Investigation (Scissor Lift) Obligations in Canada Awareness • Stop and Think! Stop work authority cards (see below) EMS Awareness Confined Space Entry Contractor Safety Crane Safety Due Diligence Training Ergonomics / Fall Arrest / Fall First Aid & CPR Fire Extinguisher First Aid & CPR Musculoskeletal Protection (Renewal) Safety Forklift Forklift & Propane Machine Safety and Recertification Hazard Analysis Lockout/Tagout Handling Guarding (Practical) Supplier/Contractor Transportation of Manual Material Personal Protective Environmental Spill Containment Dangerous Goods Handling Equipment Compliance Form (TDG) Training WHMIS 2015-GHS Working at Heights Workplace Inspection Refresher (Ladder Safety) 13 14 POW ER ED BY P E O PLE P R OD UC T I ON SAFET Y A MESSAGE FROM OUR DIRECTOR OF HEALTH, SAFETY & ENVIRONMENT “In support of ABC’s commitment to health and safety, we continually monitor our performance by measuring both leading and lagging indicators. While we are aware that incident rates are lagging indicators, we do acknowledge that they are also a key indicator. Over the past several years our incident rates have been trending downward, however, regrettably we did see an upward trend last FY in two indicators noted below. Our lost time injury rate has David Ellacott (CHRO) speaking during the May 2019 Town Hall. continued to trend downward and our (TRIR) total recordable injury rate is three to four times lower than COMMUNICATIONS AND Frequent, proactive, and transparent communication is critical the US and Canadian industry averages. Nevertheless, REPORTING to achieving health & safety program goals and objectives. ABC one injury is one too many. Technologies’ believes that keeping employees informed about key issues and progress updates will enable well rounded superior We understand that outstanding health and safety performance throughout our operations. performance is a journey of continual improvement and never being satisfied, and we as an organization We utilize various methods and formats to deliver health & safety will continue on this path.” information to our employees in key timeframes, including: Enzo Sorrentino Director of Health, Safety & Environment Annually Weekly • H&S goals and objectives letter from CEO • Serious incident top management review meetings Quarterly • H&S top focus plants for high incident rates HEALTH & SAFETY KPIS: YEAR-OVER-YEAR CHANGE • Head office town halls • MyAbc portal Measure FY16-17 FY17-18 FY18-19 FY19-20 • Safety talks Monthly Total Recordable Incident Daily -33.8% -47% 23.9% -24.4% • Top management review Rate • Plant employee meetings • Tailgate meetings • Safety statistics and trends posted at H&S Loss Time Case Rate -1.1% -39.8% -18.9% -60.5% boards and sent out to management team Other • Safety alerts • Safety messages Note: FY19-20 results are Year-To-Date 15 16 POW ER ED BY P E O PLE EM P L OY EE EN GAGEM EN T EMPLOYEE ENGAGEMENT We recognize that to attract, retain, and engage employees, we must have competitive pay and benefits ABC Plastic Moulding 35th Anniversary. programs combined with a great work environment. To this end, we are embarking on a journey to raise the bar in all areas to ensure we have a compelling value proposition to share with current and prospective employees. Employee Value Proposition We have developed an Employee Value Proposition (EVP) Framework that outlines the package of Environmental Rewards Flexible Work Training compensation, benefits, and work environment initiatives that we offer employees in exchange for their We have a “Great Workplace” performance and commitment to the company. This Framework is part of our long-term strategy designed to enhance our competitiveness from both an employee and business perspective. Development & Growth Educational Leadership Succession Career Assistance Development Planning Planning We “Grow our People” Our EVP Framework aims to achieve the following benefits: Performance-Based Rewards Short Term Service Performance & Merit-Based Spot We “Pay-for-Performance” Incentive Plan Recognition Development Plans Increases Bonus • Position our total rewards’ offerings to achieve our goal of being highly competitive within our industry • Prioritize our engineers and top talent when addressing compensation and talent management Foundational Rewards Competitive Health Retirement Perks Voluntary Time Life & opportunities Salary Care Beneﬁts Off Disability We “Get the Basics Right” • Adjust the hourly wage schedules to drive significant reductions in turnover and attract better qualified Accountability Culture hires (when required) • Implement talent management processes and tools to enhance employee skills, engagement and drive a Open & Honest Communication culture of accountability Safe and Engaging Work Environment This diagram represents the overall structure of the EVP Framework at ABC. Our EVP is designed to make ABC Technologies an even better place to work, and specific initiatives will be launched to drive a consistent workplace experience for employees across the globe. 17 18 POW ER ED BY P E O PLE EM P L OY EE EN GAGEM EN T RECRUITING AND RETAINING Maintaining a top caliber workforce requires that everyone have EMPLOYEE & LEADERSHIP In January 2019, we implemented a new Educational Assistance TOP TALENT an equal opportunity. We give all prospective candidates equal DEVELOPMENT Program for employees working in our US and Canadian locations employment opportunities, without regard to race, color, national origin, that provides tuition reimbursement to eligible employees ($3,500 per ancestry, citizenship status, religion, sex, reproductive status (including employee per fiscal year) for successfully completing pre-approved pregnancy, childbirth, or related medical conditions), age, disability, courses at accredited educational institutions. The intent of this veteran status, sexual orientation, gender identity or expression, or any program is to provide employees with the opportunity to acquire new other characteristic protected by law. This applies to all employment skills to improve their performance in their current job and/ or attain the decisions, including recruiting, hiring, and terms and conditions required education to advance their career at ABC Technologies. The of employment. per employee reimbursement amount will remain the same in FY20, however the program will be expanded beyond Canada and the US. We comply with all applicable labor and employment laws, including those for working conditions, wages, hours, breaks, freedom of We also launched leadership training to our Executive Leadership Team association and benefits. Additionally, we respect the human rights (ELT) audience in 2018. In FY20, we are planning to implement targeted of our employees and our various stakeholders and are committed to development programs designed to improve overall leadership skills supporting their protection and preservation throughout our and drive a culture of responsibility and accountability across all levels. global operations. ABC Technologies is committed to the attraction and selection of the LEADERSHIP & SUCCESSION We recently launched our first formal Talent Assessment Process to best talent for all roles. We strive to employ consistent hiring practices assess, discuss, and calibrate talent working in our five Engineering across our network to ensure external/ internal candidates are treated Business Units. The goal of this initiative was to identify our top-talent with dignity and respect, and that objective hiring decisions are made for development and future leadership and/ or career advancement across all phases of our recruitment cycle. opportunities. In the future, we will identify critical roles across our business and identify and develop potential backfills for these positions. TALENT MOBILITY We believe in “growing from within” and investing in employees We are evolving to a “pay-for-performance” culture where employees PERFORMANCE MANAGEMENT who choose to grow with us. As part of our commitment, we are are measured and assessed based on the achievement of individual piloting a new internal job posting program to ensure that all salaried performance objectives and the demonstration of core leadership opportunities are made visible, and all internal employees are provided behaviors. We have piloted a new Performance Management approach the first opportunity to apply to, and be considered for, these open roles. in July 2019 that will help to improve individual and organizational The pilot has launched in June 2019 and our intention is to implement support by: this program in all global locations. • Identifying and communicating performance goals to employees • Providing regular feedback • Assisting employees in their career development 19 20 POW ER ED BY P E O PLE EM P L OY EE EN GAGEM EN T EMPLOYEE BENEFITS Our focus is to develop globally-consistent, and market-relevant DIVERSITY AND INCLUSION Our ability to reach full potential as an organization requires highprograms to enhance organizational performance, and recognize and performing talent that brings unique perspectives, experiences, and reward employees for their significant contributions. We commit to ideas to the team. A diverse and deep talent pool enables us to deliver providing a fair and competitive total rewards package that will attract, differentiated products and service levels to our customers. retain, and engage employees at all levels. Our total rewards programs, structures and decisions are aligned with the business strategy and Creating an environment where team members feel valued is critical. HR strategy. In order to become the “employer of choice”, we strive to This includes promoting employee development, actively seeking provide total rewards programs that are market competitive and meet different perspectives and building various workplace programs. We employee needs, which include: comply will all federal and local regulations governing the regions in which we operate. • Competitive base salary that is reviewed every year • Performance based annual incentive plans that are available Our immediate goal is to develop strategic partnerships with postto all employees secondary institutions so we can continually improve the percentage • Comprehensive group benefits plans that meet the diverse needs of women engineers and skilled tradespeople working at ABC of employees (e.g. life insurance, extended health care, medication, Technologies. We will continue our journey to establish ourselves as a dental care, LTD, STD, vision care, paramedical services, etc.) best-in-class employer with a global, diverse workforce and an • Retirement and savings plans to help employees prepare for the inclusive workplace. financial future COMMITMENT TO We are committed to providing a work environment where employees In addition, the company offers various programs to promote employees’ overall wellbeing, including: NONDISCRIMINATION AND are evaluated based on abilities and quality of work. We do not tolerate ANTI-HARASSMENT harassment, psychological or physical abuse, or physical coercion, • Employee Assistance Program (EAP) that offers confidential including indecent or threatening gestures, abusive tone or language, consultation services to both employees and their families or undesired physical contact. The Company prohibits offensive racial, • Service Awards program that recognizes employees’ service and ethnic, religious, age-related, or sexual jokes or insults, distributing or loyalty displaying offensive pictures or cartoons, or using voicemail, email, or • Recognition program that awards employees for above-and-beyond electronic devices to transmit derogatory or discriminatory information. contributions 2019 Car Raffle at Climate Control Systems. The Company does not tolerate unwelcome sexual advances, requests • Unique Car Discount program that allow employees to benefit from for sexual favors, or physical or verbal conduct of a sexual nature. The huge car purchase discount just for being an employee of ABC Company also does not tolerate workplace violence or threats. We offer differentiated benefits and rewards to address the unique Management team members are always expected to conduct market conditions in our international locations. For example, in themselves with professionalism. Any employee who has experienced Mexico, we provide on-site cafeteria services, access to medical or witnessed discrimination or harassment is expected to immediately services and various bonus/ incentive programs to enhance our market report the conduct to a supervisor or the Corporate Human Resources competitiveness and drive employee retention. (HR) Department. The Company will promptly review all reports and conduct a follow-up investigation, if appropriate. 21 22 POW ER ED BY P E O PLE EM P L OY EE EN GAGEM EN T PLANT 4 TURNOVER & ABSENTEEISM CASE STUDY 3. IMPROVE LEADERSHIP Action Taken: 1. Provide 9-month MATURE training program, In July 2017, HR management at Plant 4 in Mexico recognized that high employee turnover and focusing on group leaders and supervisors absenteeism were significant issues that needed to be addressed immediately. Analysis showed that 2. Provide situational leadership for managers turnover was primarily due to fierce competition for top talent and a lack of employee training. To address this issue, the HR team identified eight initiatives to systematically reduce turnover and improve retention. The objective was to “Be the best place to work & improve our workers’ life.” Two years after these initiatives were put into place, the results were extremely impressive: 87% REDUCTION IN 52% REDUCTION IN 4. TALENT DEVELOPMENT Action Taken: 1. Increase internal employee promotions, with 170 EMPLOYEE TURNOVER EMPLOYEE ABSENTEEISM from FY18-FY20 2. Develop an annual training plan for each worker according to their job description and assessment The eight initiatives are as follows: 3. Ensure each employee receives 40 hours of training per year 1. LABOR STABILITY Action Taken: 1. Improve the process to hire and onboard 2. Regular meetings to communicate goals, objectives, Action Taken: 5. RECOGNITION & DEVELOPMENT and strategies to employees 3. Every two months, select 10 hourly employees to 1. Employees can apply to receive 50% high school have breakfast with the general manager and share tuition assistance. The program has supported 4 feedback generations with 38 graduates since inception. 2. Every month the plant recognizes perfect 2. EFFICIENT WORK Action Taken: attendance with a bonus & once a year holds a special event: BBQ prepared by the managers. 1. Provide free transportation to work for employees 3. Be in my shoes program Once a month, 2 2. Facility improvements including new training rooms administrative employees complete 1 hour and refurbishing the cafeteria of operator work. The operator trains the 3. HR directly engages with employees on the shop administrative employees, and the objective is to floor to address any concerns motivate the operator, and recognize their work. 23 24 POW ER ED BY P E O PLE EM P L OY EE EN GAGEM EN T 6. STAR TEAM Action Taken: ABC TECHNOLOGIES GLOBAL EMPLOYEE PERFORMANCE FY18 VS. FY19 1. The star team is a very effective tool for continuous improvement, and is formed with each of the members of the operational area, including: safety leader, quality leader, continuous improvement 552 NEW EMPLOYEES 27% REDUCTION IN leader, cost leader, and team leader. GLOBALLY EMPLOYEE TURNOVER 2. Each leader is responsible for monitoring the needs of the team and each area of the plant must support leaders of the star team. Once a month, the ABC Technologies has had a strong year in overall employee performance. Global employee headcount star team has a presentation with the manager’s increased by 552 from FY18 to FY19 and turnover dropped significantly by 27%. There are two key initiatives team to share results of their work including that are being implemented that have contributed to the reduction in turnover. These include: absenteeism, cost, and improvement updates. 7. WELLNESS Action Taken: 1. Dental program Once a year, two dentists come to the plant and provide free services for any employee Initiation of the Employee Value Transitioning temporary workers to 2. A doctor and nurses are always onsite for medical Proposition program in North America, full-time employees. issues as mentioned on page. 17. 3. Weight loss contest – During 2 months, the collective plant lost 411,382 pounds! Regionally, the strongest improvements in turnover were in the US and Mexico. In Canada our annualized Employee Turnover Trailing Twelve Months is 15%, which is well below the average within the industry and has remained consistent over the years. In FY20 we are targeting 12% for Canada, which would put us in a 8. SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY Action Taken: position of being ‘best-in-class’ amongst our competitors. 1. 400 trees were to provided to employees on Earth Day Overall, for FY20 we will continue our initiatives to improve employee turnover and focus on employee 2. Summer ABC land provides different types of engagement programs to retain our talent. activities for the children of employees 3. Sold t-shirts and raised $15,634 to donate to the Cancer Association 25 26 ABC Technologies Head Office Showroom. PRODUCT OVERVIEW With hundreds of patents on materials technology, products and processing systems, our reputation for product innovation is PRODUCTS MADE FOR OUR internationally recognized. Customers use our plastic components and systems, in every area of their vehicles, to pioneer new automotive CUSTOMERS advancements in performance and sustainability. In addition to the inherent cost savings in tooling, manufacturing and assembly ABC Technologies is responsible for making innovative products production, ABC Technologies plastic products offer several important tailored to exceed the expectations of our customers. To achieve functional qualities that directly address sustainability objectives: the highest level of customer satisfaction, we focus on excellence in design, quality, advanced engineering, supply chain management, lean · Lightweighting manufacturing and precise launch activities. We are committed to · Efficient use of space implementing operational improvements, innovation of products and · Sizing customization processes that position our customers and ourselves for long-term · Vehicle fuel efficiency growth, and to uphold our customer’s CSR expectations. · Improved performance, durability and flexibility · Enhanced permeation and temperature resistance State-of-the-art console assembly line in Tennessee, USA. 27 28 PRO DUC T S M AD E FO R O U R CU S T O M ER S PRO D UC T D ESI GN & T EST I N G PRODUCT DESIGN SUSTAINABILITY CASE STUDIES SUSTAINABILITY The ABC Product Design Program utilizes a cross-functional, gated, BIO-POLYMER RESINS ABC Technologies is currently developing bio-based parts as an CONSIDERATIONS DURING collaborative approach to develop technologically advanced and unique alternative to glass fiber and mineral filled polypropylene applications PRODUCT DESIGN automotive product solutions. At the foundation of this program is because there are multiple advantages vs. glass fibers and minerals the Advanced Product Quality Process (APQP), which consists of a from an environmental, supply chain, and an application standpoint. structured six phase approach that is used to ensure effective product The benefits include: design/development and execute a flawless launch that exceeds our customer’s expectations. • Environment: Bio-polymers extracted from renewable resources Wood Fiber • Supply Chain: The second most abundant biomass on Earth and As part of the APQP, ABC has developed a structured procedure available all year round to review sustainability related aspects and risks for the design, • Lightweight: Low density vs. glass fibers & minerals (15% lighter) development, and implementation of new products, processes, •  Production: Low viscosity thermoplastic provides a technical equipment, and plants. The objective of this procedure is to ensure that advantage in regards to mold flow appropriate consideration is given to environmental, health and safety Lignin Powder aspects in order to address potential risks and opportunities. Impacts Example use case: Air Box evaluated include the following: Product Chemical Content RECYCLED CARBON FIBER ABC Technologies has a commercial-ready lightweight alternative · Assess the chemical compliance status of carry-over content prior to ( R CF) WITH POLYURETHANE to glass fiber skins used in polyurethane compression molding finalized design. COMPOSITE BOARD applications. Our in house polyurethane composite boards are currently · Evaluate existing content for the presence of Substances of Very being used within our Interior Systems (e.g. Load Floors) but now has High Concern (SVHCs) in support of global legislation. a lightweight/strength advantage for exterior applications as well using rCF. Some of the benefits include: Ergonomics and Safety · Evaluate product design for possible health & safety challenges. • Environment: Provides second life to unused carbon fiber from the · Determine the best manufacturing processes to avoid injuries. aerospace industry • Lightweight: Low overall mass vs. glass fibers (35% 50% lighter) rCF Hard-Fold Tonneau Cover In Development Product Recyclability • Production: Uses existing PCB process equipment · Determine if the use of recycled material is feasible. · Decide if selected materials maximize end-of-life recyclability. Example use case: Tonneau Covers Energy and Waste Current hard cover tonneaus use solid core panels with aluminum skins · Assess manufacturing equipment, materials, and product life cycle which add to the overall weight. ABC Technologies rCF PCB Tonneau, for energy usage and minimize where possible. which is in-development, is a lightweight solution that is capable of · Evaluate opportunities for reduction of scrap and manufacturing supporting a 100kg foot load. Aluminum Honey Comb / rCF Skin / waste streams. Polyurethane Coating 29 30 PRO DUC T S M AD E FO R O U R CU S T O M ER S SUP P LY C HAI N M A N AGEM EN T PRODUCT DESIGN SUSTAINABILITY CASE STUDIES CONT’D CHEMICALLY FOAM BLOW ABC Technologies is currently producing chemically foam blow-molded MOLDED DUCTS HVAC ducts that offer our customers a lightweight alternative with added performance benefits. • Environment: Lightweight product contributes to overall fuel and emissions savings. All chemically foam blow-molded materials are Three-piece welded IP system reprocessed like conventional materials, which eliminates the need to freight scrap to an external reprocessing site. • Lightweight: Low density vs. conventional ducts (20-30% lighter) • Thermal performance: Foamed product helps insulate against thermal energy lost to the duct system and surrounding environment • Acoustic performance: Foamed product has improved acoustic insulating properties compared to solid conventional materials. Small cell size (~180 µm), high cell count, cell Supreme Tooling Group built fixture with an automated feeder. • Production: Process can be adapted to existing blow-molding RESPONSIBLE SUPPLIERS SUPPLY CHAIN MANAGEMENT shape is elongated equipment and auxiliary units. Example use case: Instrument Panel HVAC Ducts ABC selects business partners whose values and business practices are compatible with our own high standards. These standards are laid out in the Supplier Quality and Development Manual provides which 3D BLOW MOLDING Standard Blow Molding Head tooling creates a parison with a uniform HEAD TOOL wall thickness across the cross section of a parison. ABC is in process provides details about ABC’s expectations and requirements for current of implementing 3D Head Tooling which enables a variable thickness and potential new suppliers, including environmental, safety, and across the cross section, resulting in a weight savings by only adding sustainability performance. material where required based on customer’s performance targets. The environment is a priority to ABC and therefore suppliers are • Environment: Reduction in part thickness results in less waste encouraged to be certified to ISO 14001 or working toward certification. production Additionally, we will not engage in activities or deal with third parties, • Lightweight: Reduction in material use results in overall weight in our supply chain or otherwise, that encourages human rights Traditional Tooling savings abuses or that support trafficking in persons or the use of child labor • Production: Uses existing blow molding machines with modifications or forced labor. Suppliers are expected to demonstrate, upon request, to the tool head compliance with local, national, and international standards and regulations regarding health, safety, and environmental issues relevant Example use case: Technology can be applied to large complex parts to the supplier’s business. ABC encourages all of our sub-tiers to take the online training provided 3D Tooling through AIAG “Supply Chain Corporate Responsibility” training. 31 32 PRO DUC T S M AD E FO R O U R CU S T O M ER S SUP P LY C HAI N M A N AGEM EN T SUPPLIER DIVERSITY As a company that recognizes the importance of diversity, ABC Technologies awards contracts to under-represented suppliers that meet our contractual requirements. In partnering with different groups of suppliers, we hope to level the playing field, increase market competition, and boost economic activity for certified businesses. To demonstrate our commitment, we are partners with the Michigan Minority Supplier Development Council (MMSDC), the National Minority Supplier Development Council (NMSDC), the Canadian Aboriginal and Minority Supplier Council (CAMSC), and Woman Business Enterprise Canada (WBE). Plant 5 Shipping Docks in Ramos, Mexico. SUPPLIER MANAGEMENT & ABC has a team of 15 employees to manage suppliers, with team AUDITING members broken down by separate areas of operations including supplier quality, logistics assistance, packaging, tooling, and capital expenditures. The majority of the team is located in North America, although several supplier quality personnel are located in China. ABC Technologies Logistics Manager, Marc Mallais, recieving the 2019 Supplier Diversity Leader Award by WBE Canada. Internal resources are utilized for auditing suppliers, including evaluation of rates, quality, and environmental & safety issues. ABC CONFLICT MINERALS ABC Technologies Inc. is committed to ensuring that parts and has a full supplier notice system which covers direct and indirect assemblies in our products, regardless of where they are assembled suppliers and both new and existing suppliers. This system tracks the or sold, are free from conflict minerals. To that end, the company has audit schedule, audit findings, quality notice reviews, and corrective engaged its suppliers to investigate their supply chains in order to action plans. Currently, auditing efforts are focused on direct suppliers provide conflict mineral and smelting data. ABC has provided guidance with approximately 2% audited on an annual basis. To date, ABC to suppliers to facilitate this process, including access to key resources has not terminated a supplier due to environmental, safety, or other such as iPoint Conflict Minerals Platform (iPCMP) and the OECD Due sustainability issues. Diligence Guidance for Responsible Supply Chains of Minerals from Conflict-Affected and High-Risk Areas. 33 34 ABC Technologies has published a separate document, entitled “Global Code of Ethics and Business Conduct”, which can be found on our website and describes the following governance topics: Business Responsibilities Legal obligations • Management responsibilities • Compliance with the law • Commitment to obey the law and the code • Avoid corruption • Document retention • Immigration law compliance • Accurate financial records • Data privacy • International trade compliance Responsibilities to employees • Equal opportunity employment Responsibilities to third parties • Non-discrimination and non-harassment • Our customers • Set an appropriate standard • Ethical sales practices • Labor and employment laws • Fair dealing with vendors and suppliers • Human rights • Occupational safety and the environment Investigations and anti-retaliation • Maintaining a safe workplace • Responsibility to report violations GUIDED BY ETHICS AND DRIVEN BY GOVERNANCE Expectations for employees • Appropriate use of company equipment CODE OF ETHICS AND BUSINESS CONDUCT • Maintain confidentiality • Refrain from insider trading The Company holds itself to Code and all supporting Policies, Employees or third parties • Refrain from conflicts of interest the highest ethical standards. including overseeing compliance have the opportunity to report The Global Code of Ethics and training, auditing and monitoring, concerns about possible Business Conduct outlines ABC conducting internal investigations, violations of the Code or Policies Technologies’ commitments and updating the Code and or to seek guidance on ethics and and business ethics procedures, policies as required. The HR compliance matters by contacting throughout all the jurisdictions Department is responsible for the General Council or through the that it operates and/or conducts providing the Code to personnel Company’s Ethics Hotline. The business in. ABC Technologies upon joining the Company. code strictly prohibits retaliation is committed to doing business Employees may be asked to against those making good faith in an open, honest, and ethical review core compliance policies inquiries or complaints. CORPORATE GOVERNANCE manner. annually, certify they understand the terms and are not aware Corporate Governance is required for CSR development and oversight. ABC Technologies is accountable The legal department is of any violations, and receive for managing, measuring and reporting our business initiatives and performances. ABC Technologies is responsible for administering the refresher training. committed to providing both transparency and clarity of business endeavors. 35 36 GUI DED BY ET H ICS AN D D R IV E N B Y G OVER NANCE UNITED NATIONS GLOBAL COMPACT AGREEMENT ABC TECHNOLOGIES’ COMMITMENT TO THE UN GLOBAL COMPACT The United Nations Global ABC Technologies’ intent is to Compact is a pact that encourages advance these ten principles within businesses worldwide to adopt and the company’s sphere of influence. maintain sustainable and socially We at ABC Technologies are responsible policies, and to report on committed to making the UN Global their implementation. Compact and its principles part of our business strategy, our corporate The UN Global Compact is a PRINCIPLE 10 PRINCIPLE 1 culture and integrate the principles principle-based pact for businesses, into the daily operations. This report Businesses should work against Businesses should support and stating ten principles in the areas of corruption in all its forms, respect the protection of fulfills our annual Communication including extortion and bribery. internationally proclaimed human human rights, labor, the environment on Progress obligation as required rights, within the scope of their and anti-corruption. influence. per our commitment to the UNGC. PRINCIPLE 9 10 1 PRINCIPLE 2 Under the Global Compact, Businesses should encourage the Businesses should make sure that companies are brought together development and diffusion of Ithey are not complicit in human ANT TION with United Nation agencies, labor environmentally friendly RR UP HUM rights abuses. CO AN groups and civil society. technologies. 9 RI 2 TS GH ENV IR O N M E NT PRINCIPLE 8 8 3 PRINCIPLE 3 Businesses should undertake Businesses should uphold the initiatives to promote greater RDS freedom of association and the environmental responsibility. effective recognition of the right to DA collective bargaining. TA N S 7 OU R 4 LAB PRINCIPLE 7 6 5 PRINCIPLE 4 Businesses should support a Businesses should uphold the precautionary approach to elimination of all forms of forced environmental challenges. and compulsory labour. PRINCIPLE 6 PRINCIPLE 4 Businesses should uphold the elimination of discrimination Businesses should uphold the abolition of child labour. in respect of employment and occupation. 37 38 A summary of our annual co-op/ apprenticeships is outlined below: Calendar Year # of Total Co-ops/ Apprenticeships 2017 21 2018 12 2019 26 Our goal is to make ABC a place where graduates can grow, develop and achieve their career goals. We are enhancing our college/ university relations’ strategy to ensure that we develop targeted, long-term relationships with select schools/ programs who meet the needs of our business. We will measure our progress though our candidate conversion rates (co-op/intern to full-time) and modify/improve our initiatives based on the feedback we receive from participants. COMMUNITY ENGAGEMENT The ABC Technologies’ global footprint and workforce provides a COMPETITIONS ABC Technologies’ has been supporting the Industrial Design Program wide range of opportunities to serve and positively impact the local at Humber College for over 30 years. Final year students in the communities in which we operate. Our community engagement Bachelor’s program compete in teams to develop solutions to real strategy uses a two pronged approach, which consists of a global world challenges outlined by ABC as a project for one of their courses. component that focuses on Science, Technology, Engineering and The competition runs for eight-weeks and mentors from ABC visit Mathematics (“STEM”) and a local component that allows individual the class on a weekly basis for design reviews. Feedback is provided facilities to select organizations they wish to support. This blended and helps students get real-world industry perspectives. The final approach enables ABC Technologies to achieve a coordinated focus at presentations are given at ABC Head Office to a jury of employees scale while empowering our employees to drive impact at a local level. from various departments and the top teams are given an award by Executive Management. Co-op recognition event at ABC Head Office. UNIVERSITY/ COLLEGE The attraction and retention of qualified co-op students, interns and RELATIONS new graduates is increasingly important to our success. We partner with post-secondary institutions to hire co-ops/interns for work placements in our Corporate and plant environments. More specifically, we hire Industrial Design co-ops (Humber College), Tool&Die, and mechanical apprentices (Sheridan College and Georgian College) as part of a formal apprenticeship program. We regularly hire engineering co-op students (i.e., automotive, mechanical, electrical) from leading engineering schools including; the University of Waterloo, McMaster University, University of Toronto, Ryerson University and the University of Ontario Institute of Technology. 2019 ABC Technologies + Humber College Competition Awards Ceremony. 39 40 GUI DED BY ET H ICS AN D D R IV E N B Y G OVER NANCE BRAZIL • Partnered with two local schools to provide internships for 19 apprentices and three technical courses including tooling/machining, mechanic, and administrative. • Hiring program supports selection of employees from a diverse set of backgrounds including those with disabilities. ABC provides job adaptation where necessary. • Provides continuing education to employees including both high school equivalency classes and English • Offers onsite healthcare to employees and their families, including vaccinations and health exams. COMMUNITY INITIATIVES At the local level, each facility has a charity committee that is comprised of employees from various functional areas. The committees are responsible for annually selecting two organizations they wish to support and determining how they will be supported, which typically includes monetary donations and volunteer service. At a global level, we provide our plants with a high degree of flexibility to pursue employee and community initiatives they deem to be most impactful. The following page highlights some SAN JUAN of the excellent initiatives our plants have achieved • Employee engagement initiatives to promote communication and transparency, including “Drink coffee over the past year. with your General Manager”. • Charitable giving including ABC bought pink t-shirts which were sold to the staff to donate money to the Cancer Association. LOCAL COMMUNITY SERVICE • Donation of lamps for classrooms at the University of San Juan del Río. • Donation of electrical equipment for practical student learning at the University of San Juan del Río. Etobicoke Children’s Ronald McDonald 360 Kids Knight Table The Back Pack Club Centre House AECC Spanish McKenzie Health Association against Hockey Village India Seva Food Bank Toys for Tots Foundation Cancer Shining Through Oxford Kids Arzte ohne Genze Home Safe Centre for Children Veterans Services Foundation with Autism ASAMIS Local Hazard Analysis Association for Jumpstart Sick Kids Yellow Brick House Pinball Foundation disabled people Children are People Jumpstart Etobicoke Redwood Stiftung Barenherz 41 42 ENVIRONMENTAL COMPLIANCE ABC’s commitment to policy including relevant requirements. The system also environmental compliance is procedures and objectives for includes various tools to help rooted in our environmental purchasing requirements and the manage compliance obligations, policy. The policy contains visitor process guidelines. including environmental three pillars: protecting the performance evaluations, environment, fulfilling compliance A company-wide environmental preventative maintenance (PM) obligations, and continually management system (EMS), schedules, EMS calendars, and a improving the environmental which achieved ISO-14001 monitoring and evaluation matrix. management system to enhance group certification in 2018, environmental performance. is used to systematically Evaluation of compliance is The global EHS team, which is maintain environmental monitored by each plant and the comprised of 20+ employees, compliance requirements across corporate EHS team through has primary responsibility for all operations. The EMS is regular audits and status reports. fulfilling the obligations of this comprised of detailed standards Any major compliance issues policy. Additionally, suppliers, that set forth procedures, identified are reported to top contractors, and visitors are responsibilities, communication, management during the monthly subject to the environmental training, records, and evaluation management review meeting. PLUGGED INTO THE ENVIRONMENT ABC Technologies is committed to protecting the environment, fulfilling compliance obligations, and continually improving the Environmental Management System (EMS) to enhance environmental performance. ABC Technologies is committed to environmental protection and stewardship. We recognize that pollution prevention and resource conservation are critical factors of a sustainable environment. All our employees recognize the importance of preserving our natural resources, reducing waste, improving energy efficiency and reducing our carbon emissions. ABC Technologies will continue to educate, train and motivate its employees and suppliers, to carry out tasks in an environmentally responsible manner. Plant 5 in Ramos, Mexico, with numerous skylights across the rooftop. Plant 5 in Ramos, Mexico, utiliizing skylights to bring in natural light during the day. 43 44 PLU G G ED I NT O T H E E N V IR O N ME N T E N V IRON M EN TAL C OM P L I AN C E ENVIRONMENTAL POLICY ABC Technologies Inc. is one of the world’s leading plastic automotive ECO EFFICIENCY ABC is committed to reducing the environmental footprint of our systems and components manufacturers for the global automotive operations, which is stated in both the environmental and CSR policies, industry. Management of ABC Technologies is committed to protecting and primarily accomplished through our eco-efficiency program. These the environment, fulfilling compliance obligations, and continually efforts are aligned with the company’s strategic business imperatives improving the Environmental Management System (EMS) to enhance and can deliver significant financial impacts such as reduced operating environmental performance. To fulfill this obligation, ABC Technologies costs. is dedicated to the following initiatives: Two eco-efficiency targets have been set at the corporate level for • Top management is committed to include the consideration of 2020, which apply to all Tier 1 Plants: environmental issues in all business strategies and initiatives and ensure that protection of the environment is firmly embedded in the company’s culture. 3% 3% • Prevent and mitigate adverse environmental impacts concerning our REDUCTION IN REDUCTION IN activities, products and services. ELECTRICITY WASTE • Preserve natural resources, reduce solid waste, improve energy efficiency and reduce carbon emissions. Electricity: Waste: Reduce annual electricity Reduce annual solid waste • Responsibly manage all aspects of its business to ensure consumption rate by 3% by 2020 disposal rate by 3% by 2020 compliance obligations are met. Fuel and water reduction targets are site-specific and depend on local • Regularly identify objectives for continual improvement; prioritize operating requirements. For example, only the Mexico operations are and implement action plans; monitor and measure progress. located in a water stressed region. • Influence environmental protection among suppliers and Implementation of eco-efficiency reduction initiatives are coordinated contractors. at both corporate and site levels to ensure a systematic and customized approach. At the corporate level, the VP of Business • Educate, train, and motivate employees to carry out tasks in an Planning manages energy-related risks and opportunities and drives environmentally responsible manner and hold all ABC Technologies an energy reduction performance meeting with participation from all employees accountable on a daily basis for upholding the spirit and sites on a monthly basis. At the site level, a company-wide Continual intent of this Policy and the Environmental Management System. Improvement (CI) center (“ABCi CLUB”), accessible via the company This Policy is communicated to all staff, contractors and suppliers, intranet, is used to track and share improvement initiatives. Employees and available to the public through selected media. that make CI contributions are recognized during town hall meetings, statement of business meetings, or social events on a regular basis. 45 46 PLU G G ED I NT O T H E E N V IR O N ME N T COMPANY WIDE ENERGY REDUCTION CASE STUDIES FOR FY2019 ENERGY REDUCTION PROJECTS Over the past 7 years, various initiatives have been identified including WITH UTILITY INCENTIVE upgrading to LED lighting, installing variable frequency devices (VFDs), ENERGY REDUCTION CASE STUDIES compressed air leak detection audits, upgrading chillers, and more ABC has made significant progress across our which have resulted in over $1.5M of annual savings. Furthermore, operations to systematically improve energy the cost of these projects was offset by the receipt of utility incentives efficiency. The following case studies provide a totaling $943K. sample of the many initiatives we have completed that have reduced our energy consumption and generated impressive cost savings. $1.5M $943K ESTIMATED ANNUAL TOTAL INCENTIVES SAVINGS PLANT 4 DEMAND RESPONSE Plant 4 analyzed energy consumption chronologically on a daily basis using software to determine consumption and cost patterns. The analysis found that the equipment responsible for the highest consumption of energy was operated in all three shifts, including the second shift which occurs during the afternoon when energy pricing is highest. The plant adjusted the operational schedule to use this equipment only during the 1st and 3rd shifts, which resulted in a 10% energy reduction and annual savings of $112K. $112K 10% ESTIMATED ANNUAL ENERGY REDUCTION SAVINGS Console assembly line at the Tennessee Plant. 47 48 PLU G G ED I NT O T H E E N V IR O N ME N T ENERGY REDUCTION CASE STUDIES CONTINUED 2 NORELCO LED LAMP A lighting analysis was performed to determine the current lamp type, THERMAL BLANKETS Although injection molding machines were operating as purchased, a UPGRADE energy consumption, and annual cost. The results revealed 1,639 review with a thermal gun revealed a high amount of heat loss from the fixtures that include 4,617 lamps – most of which were T8 lamps – and barrel of the machines. The team investigated solutions and identified consumed approximately 876,507 kWh annually. The site underwent an thermal blankets that can be installed over the machine barrels to LED lamp upgrade which reduced energy consumption for lighting by improve efficiency and reduce energy consumption. The initiative 46% and saved $48,190 in annual energy cost with a 8.4 month simple resulted in annual energy cost savings of $102,690 with a 6-month payback. simple payback. $48K 8.4 MONTH $103K 6 MONTH ESTIMATED ANNUAL ESTIMATED ANNUAL PAYBACK PAYBACK SAVINGS SAVINGS ENERGY SAVINGS WORKSHOP In November 2018, Plant 1-3 in Mexico held an energy savings COMPRESSED AIR AUDITS Many of the plants have conducted detailed compressed air audits workshop with one of our customers. The workshop utilized a to identify opportunities to reduce energy consumption. For example, systematic approach and separated participants into five teams to results from a compressed air audit at the Humberline plant showed identify low and no cost opportunities to reduce energy and associated three main opportunities including reduction of system pressure, greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions. Operational focus areas included reduction of leaks, elimination of non-production, modulation and compressed air, water, motors, electricity, lightning, chilled water, and pressure cascade. These initiatives are estimated to generate $60,400 office areas. The treasure hunt resulted in a variety of opportunities annual total savings (energy costs and maintenance savings) and a that are estimated to generate $633,011 annual energy cost savings payback of only 4.6 months due to utility incentives that offset upfront with an average simple payback of 6 months. Additionally, the projects costs. can reduce GHG emissions by 11% annually. To date, 50% of identified initiatives have been implemented. $633K 6 MONTH 11% ANNUAL GHG $60K 4.6 MONTH ESTIMATED ANNUAL ESTIMATED ANNUAL PAYBACK EMISSIONS REDUCTION PAYBACK SAVINGS SAVINGS 49 50 ABC Technologies Inc. 2 Norelco Drive North York, Ontario M9L 2X6, Canada Phone +1(416) 246-1782 www.abctechnologies.com
