Statement of Support I am pleased to confirm that Madre Integrated Engineering reaffirms its support of the Ten Principles of the United Nations Global Compact in the areas of Human Rights, labour , Environment and Anti-Corruption . We are committed to making the Global Compact and its principles part of the strategy, culture and daily operations of our company, and to engage in collaborative projects which advance the broader development goals of the United Nations. In this our sixth annual Communication of Progress, we describe our actions to integrate the Global Compact and its principles into our business strategy, culture and daily operations. We are also committed to share this information with our stakeholders using our primary channels of communication. Yours Sincerely , Stijo Sebastian Authorised Signatory Human Rights Principle 1: Businesses should support and respect the protection of internationally proclaimed human rights; and Principle 2: make sure that that they are not complicit in human rights abuses. Policy & Goals Madre integrated Engineering's commitment to the UN Global Compact's principles on human rights is expressed in our Code of Ethics which states: • Madre Integrated Engineering understands and accepts that as a responsible business enterprise it has the responsibility to uphold human rights at the workplace and within its sphere of influence. • We conduct our operations with honesty, integrity and openness, and with respect for the human rights and interests of our employees.• Madre Integrated Engineering recognizes that it has a responsibility to uphold human rights in the workplace. At the workplace Human rights typically take the form of nondiscrimination and diversity in personnel practices, professional development that aids employability, and work life balance programs that support a healthy balance between professional and private life. • Madre Integrated Engineering protects human rights in the community through contributions to poverty alleviation and increasing levels of education. Implementation The promotion of Human Rights can be seen in our Business Plan which contains sections both on our values and our behavioural norms. Our values, as published in the Business Plan, are: Openness Listen carefully and speak freely Integrity Develop trusted relationships through honesty and dependability Respect Appreciate that everyone brings value Diversity Embrace different perspectives Flexibility Adapt to changing circumstances Teamwork Collaborate for success And among our published behavioral norms are the following: • Madre management team follows an “open-door-policy” for all the employees, which allows them to share and communicate very freely regarding their ideas or concerns. • In all situations, we will feel free to respectfully express our opinions openly, listen carefully, and have an honest discourse about our differences. • We will maintain our strong, supportive culture by encouraging everyone to achieve their best in a manner consistent with our core ideology. We will foster awareness, understanding, and development of our culture through effective two-way communication between all levels and locations. • We will hire the best and encourage them to achieve their best in a manner consistent with our core ideology. • We commit to being experts in engineering areas, and achieving excellence in nonengineering areas through proper education, continuous improvements. Innovation, risk taking. Learning from our mistakes, and a shared responsibility for all aspects of the business. • We will be client-centered by assessing, anticipating, and meeting the expectations of our clients, and soliciting from them suggestions for adapting our practice to their needs. Measurement of Outcomes We regularly obtain survey data to make sure that our compensation and benefits meet or exceed industry standards. We regularly conduct performance reviews of our employees in order to assess their performance, discuss their professional development, and address any concerns the employees may have. In addition, we conduct exit interviews of our departing employees to make sure that any motivators driving their decision to depart are sufficiently addressed. Our harassment policy contains multiple reporting means by which a pers on can report harassment. We track all such reports and investigate as the case warrants. Labour Standards Principle 3: Businesses should uphold the freedom of association and the effective recognition of the right to collective bargaining; Principle 4: the elimination of all forms of forced and compulsory labor; Principle 5: the effective abolition of child labor; and Principle 6: the elimination of discrimination in respect of employment and occupation. Policy & Goals Madre Integrated Engineering offers equal employment opportunities to qualified persons without regard to race. Religion, colour, national origin, sex, sexual orientation, pregnancy, age, physical or mental disability or any other classification protected by applicable federal, state or local laws. Forced and compulsory labour do not apply to Madre Integrated Engineering as our Code of Conduct provides each employee with a reasonable work schedule • We seek to operate in a participatory style and give each employee a voice in major decisions which affect the business. • We are committed to diversity in the workforce and already have a range of flexible work arrangement to meet individual needs (e.g. to balance work and family life). • We are committed to supporting our people in their professional and personal development, and provide access to training. Coaching and other forms of support as required being able to reach their aspirations. • Our director conducts regular individual talks with each employee which also serve to understand their needs and expectations towards the business and ultimately improve their satisfaction and the working conditions • We provide feedback to all the employees on a regular basis, which allow us to appreciate their good performances and to assist them with their areas of improvement. • We have employees with almost 12 different nationalities working in key positions. • We do not use unpaid labor. Paying our interns and negotiating fair contracts with our associates. • We have clear grievance channels and procedures and employees may approach either the director or the chairman with any issues arising. Implementation Madre Integrated Engineering believes that we have a collective responsibility to maintain a healthy and secure workplace. To promote safe working practices, and to uphold our standard with respect to labor rights At the time of employment, there is a mandatory training period for all new hires to certify they have received, read, and will adhere to our values and policies found within the Code of Conduct regarding, labor rights. Employees are encouraged to speak up when they witness labor violations and have methods to report these incidents We have implemented the below listed trainings for our Staff & employees which helps them develop their skills sets and improve the quality of their work . • All the Non-Arabic staff members are enrolled in Arabic Classes – reading & writing. • All the Safety Officers are given refresher trainings like “Fire Warden training” and “Basic First Aid Course” etc on regular intervals to enhance their skill sets. • The camp supervisors and authorities are provided regular training on “Emergency Evacuations”, “Fire Warden training” and “First Aid Training” etc. • All medical sector employees are provided with safety training like “Chemical Spill kit training”, “Bio Hazard spill kit training”, “How to act in case of fire” and “Electrical Hazard” etc. • All employees are provided necessary Third Party Training & certifications for Riggers, Forklift Operators and Lifting Supervisors etc.as per worksite and project requirement. • All the management staff members are given personality development trainings like “Excellence in Management Development Program” and “ Business Communication” etc. Measurement of Outcomes • The firm tracks and investigates reports of harassment or discrimination. We discipline an employee for inappropriate conduct discovered during an investigation. Even where such inappropriate conduct does not rise to the level of a violation of applicable law. • We perform an availability analysis (comparing the availability of employees in our recruiting areas to the composition of our workforce), a utilization analysis (to determine if any of our job groups are underutilized). an adverse impact analysis (comparing the selection rates for minorities and females to the selection rates for non-minorities and males for all employment activities, including hires, promotions/transfers, and terminations ) and a compensation analysis (comparing the salary levels for minorities and females to the salary levels for nonminorities and males in like positions) undertaken. Environment Principle 7: Businesses should support a precautionary approach to environmental challenges; Principle 8: undertake initiatives to promote greater environmental responsibility; and Principle 9: encourage the development and diffusion of environmentally friendly technologies. Policy & Goals Madre Integrated Engineering is committed to the minimization of the impact of its activities on the environment and meeting or exceeding all relevant environmental legislation and other requirements to which we subscribe including those of trade organizations and customers. We will deliver continual improvement by: • Setting environmental objectives and targets • Monitoring and reviewing objectives and targets • Communicating our policy to all persons working on behalf of the company including contractors. Our policy will be reviewed annually or in response to a material change to our management system. The environmental objectives adopted for 2016 are: • Reduction of the consumption of electricity per man/hour worked • Reduction in the consumption of natural gas per man/hour worked • Reduction in the quantity of paper used per man/hour worked • Reduction in the volume of diesel consumed per 100 km driven • Assess Greenhouse Gas Emissions as a result of our activities including supply chain emissions. Implementation Madre Integrated Engineering has identified the environmental aspects of its processes and has assessed the associated impacts on the environment. In December 2016 we have introduced ESPIE Occupational Safety Services as our dedicated EHS partners focusing on Environment, Health and Safety of our workforce. Controls have been put in place to minimize the consumption of resources has been reduced by: • Promoting staff awareness of the benefits of energy savings by introducing switch off campaigns to reduce waste. • Rolling programs of replacement of outdated electrical fittings with modern energy efficient alternatives and automatic switch-off systems in areas of light staff traffic. • Training commercial vehicle drivers in defensive driving techniques. • Discouraging the printing of electronic records and the use of double sided printing where possible. • Discouraging the printing of electronic records and the use of double sided printing where possible. Ensuring that air conditioning units are regularly maintained and that controls are set to acceptable temperature levels and are timed to operate during working hours only. • Ensuring that the minimum amount of packaging, necessary only to prevent the damage of goods during transport, is employed when dispatching goods to customers. • Waste has been reduced by: 1. Training staff in waste stream management. 2. Re-using incoming packaging material where possible. 3. Baling waste polythene and cardboard to enable recycling. 4. Arranging for wood waste to be supplied to the recycling industry. • Small vehicles were replaced with busses to reduce the use of fuel and environment pollution. • Electricity consumption is monitored regularly in company accommodation and office. Measurement of Outcomes Madre Integrated Engineering monitors and evaluates environmental performance by monitoring outputs from: ✓ Periodic evaluation of compliance with applicable legislation ✓ Investigations into incidents and near misses ✓ Planned maintenance of facilities and equipment ✓ Internal audits performed to a pre-planned schedule ✓ Complaints from interested third parties ✓ Inspection Tours performed by senior managers ✓ Staff meetings including Board meetings Anti-corruption Principle 10: Businesses should work against corruption in all its forms, including extortion and bribery. Policy & Goals Madre Integrated Engineering prides ourselves on our reputation for acting honestly, openly, fairly and ethically wherever we do business. Our reputation is built on our values as a company, the values of our employees and our coll ective commitment to acting with integrity throughout our organization. We are committed to acting professionally and fairly in all of our business dealings and relationships wherever we operate. We take a zero-tolerance approach to corruption in all its forms and do not accept it in our business or in those we do business with. Implementation Madre Integrated Engineering highly values its reputation for ethical behavior and for financial probity and reliability which is also considered a vital necessity by its clients. In 2013, Madre Integrated Engineering has set out a consolidated course of actions designed to limit its exposure to bribery by: • setting out a clear anti-bribery policy, • establishing and implementing anti-bribery procedures as appropriate • communicating this policy and any relevant procedures to employees and to others who will perform services for the Company, • undertaking appropriate due diligence measures before engaging others to represent the Company in its business dealings, • Monitoring and reviewing the risks and the effectiveness of any anti-bribery procedures those are in place. Measurement of Outcomes Success here is generally measured by the lack of reports of violations of policy or law and, to date, there have been no reported violations. Should a violation be reported we intend to undertake a thorough investigation Conclusion We recognize that a key requirement for participation in the UN Global Compact is the annual submission of a Communication on Progress (COP) that describes our company’s efforts to implement the Ten Principles. Hereby we commit to report on progress annually according to the UN Global Compact COP policy.
