FRANKE GROUP SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2019 ONMENTAL SOCIAL ENVIR OMICAL PRODUCT ECON CONTENT Franke Group Sustainability Report 2019 4 CEO statement 6 Group profile 8 Our contribution to the United Nations' sustainability goals 10 Strategy and value chain 12 Sustainability management 17 Environmental Responsibility 20 Energy efficiency in production 22 Water, wastewater 23 Material efficiency in production 25 Resource-efficient products 27 Story: Take care of nature, take care of the waste 29 Social Responsibility 34 Leadership development 35 Occupational health and safety 37 Story: Lighting up the lives of children in Southeast Asia 39 Economical Responsibility 41 Profitability 42 Business integrity 43 Human rights 44 Story: A culture of strict compliance 47 Product Responsibility 49 Product reliability and longevity 50 Product safety 51 Product innovation 52 Story: Cleaner water – less plastic 55 Annex 57 Reporting parameters 59 GRI content index 63 Contact 3 FRANKE GROUP SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2019 CONTENT CEO STATEMENT With a broad range of measures and activities, we have people in staying healthy and in continuously developagain focused on moving one step closer to fulfilling our ing their skills. For this reason, internal promotion sustainability goals in the 2019 reporting year. Fortunately, and further training opportunities within the company we have succeeded in many areas, for example, a further are of utmost importance. During the reporting year, improvement in our overall energy and CO2 balance. approximately 200 people successfully completed one Franke Group’s CO2 emissions were decreased by 10 perof our 16 new “Leadership Development Programs”. cent compared to the previous year. At our Strečno site We also developed and tested new training programs in in Slovakia, production processes were modernized and the area of project management and these will be rolled paper consumption was eliminated; both factors positively out globally in 2020. To transfer knowledge, we can impacted the full year’s CO2 balance which improved by exploit the latest digital technologies, including virtual 20 percent compared to 2018. classrooms, online coaching tools and an extensive e-learning library. In 2019, we have again focused The well-being of our employon moving one step closer to Dear Readers, ees is important to us. fulfilling our sustainability goals We support our people in staying healthy and continuously The gap between rich and poor countries has narrowed in recent decades. The emerging nations are catching In addition, there were many diverse measures to reduce up. Their economies are growing faster than those of the industrialized nations. Accordingly, their GDP is rising energy and water consumption as well as CO2 emissions and waste volumes at the Group’s various sites world developing their skills and new middle classes are emerging. This development wide. In Argentina, gasoline forklift trucks were replaced poses great challenges that we must overcome in order with electric and gas-powered ones, in Turkey the By promoting lifelong learning, Franke aims to create a to ensure prosperity and sustainability for all. We only quantity of waste was reduced by 47 percent with a new culture geared towards high performance. We call this have one Earth at our disposal to support this growth. recycling system, in Germany easy-touch systems led to “Winning Together”. It is characterized by knowledge and Its resources are limited. a clear improvement in the efficiency of building heating skills, rewards engagement and motivation and gives us systems and in China, water consumption was reduced all a common orientation. This means more added value by almost one third thanks to a circulation system. This for our customers, our owner and ourselves. We only have one Earth at our corresponds to savings of 5 percent on water consumption across the Group. We have achieved a lot, but we are not yet satisfied. There disposal, so it is all the more is a long road ahead of us and we will not lose sight of our important that we treat it with This sustainability report gives a short presentation of the 17 global sustainable development goals (SDGs) sustainability efforts. We want to do this together with the same enthusiasm as we currently show. care followed by four main chapters “Environmental Responsibility”, “Social Responsibility”, “Economic Responsibility” Kind regards, and “Product Responsibility”. At the end of each chapter, This makes it all the more important for us to manage our you can read further success stories which have been Patrik Wohlhauser resources carefully and try to heed the warning signs, implemented with a high level of engagement by our President/CEO Franke Group such as ongoing climate change; we must do our part to companies in France, UK and Southeast Asia during this stop or at least slow down the effects. Sustainable thinkreporting year. ing should not be limited to ecological issues, but must also address social, societal and basic economic needs. Franke’s most valuable asset is its people. Therefore, emTherefore, we take it upon ourselves to make progress in ployee well-being is particularly important to us, which these areas year after year. is why we focus on social responsibility. We support our 4 FRANKE GROUP SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2019 CEO STATEMENT 5 FRANKE GROUP SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2019 CEO STATEMENT GROUP PROFILE Franke Group is comprised of the Franke Kitchen Systems, Faber Hoods & Cooking Net Sales 2019 Locations worldwide Organization as of Systems, Franke Foodservice Systems, Franke Water Systems and Franke Coffee SysNET SALES BY DIVISION Franke Group has production sites September 2020 and/or its own companies in 40 tems divisions. The Group employs over 9,000 people worldwide, and achieved consolcountries. Board of Directors Christian Mäder, Chairman idated net sales of CHF 2.4 billion in 2019. The head office is in Aarburg, SwitzerAlexander Pieper, Vice Chairman land. Patrick Naef Michael Pieper Dr. Michael Reinhard Europe (22 countries) Divisions Figures IN MIO CHF Austria, Belgium, Czech Republic, Group Management Denmark, Finland, France, Germany, – 10,1 % Franke Kitchen Systems 675 Patrik Wohlhauser, President/CEO Franke Kitchen Systems Greece, Italy, Netherlands, Norway, Faber Hoods & Cooking Systems 358 Integrated systems for food preparation in Poland, Portugal, Romania, Russia, Franke Foodservice Systems 955 Slovakia, Spain, Sweden, Switzerland, private kitchens. The range includes sinks, Group Functions Franke Water Systems 234 Turkey, Ukraine, United Kingdom fittings, worktops, extractor hoods, hobs, Finance Jürg Fischer ovens and waste disposal systems. Franke Coffee Systems 271 Human Resources Beat Sigrist Reduction in CO2 emissions Corporate/Consolidation Total –70 2,423 Americas (5 countries) Operations Gianluca Mapelli Information Services Markus Bierl 2019 vs. 2018 Argentina, Brazil, Canada, Mexico, USA Faber Hoods & Cooking Systems NET SALES BY REGION – 17,3 % Experts in exhaust air purification, exDivisions tractor hoods and kitchen technologies, Asia/Oceania (8 countries) Franke Kitchen Systems with a focus on the OEM business. Australia, China/Hong Kong, India, Barbara Borra Japan, Kazakhstan, Philippines, Singapore, Faber Hoods & Cooking Systems Thailand Barbara Borra Franke Foodservice Systems Reduction in lost days due Christian Mathesius Franke Foodservice Systems to occupational diseases and IN % Africa/Middle East (5 countries) Franke Water Systems Patrik Wohlhauser (ad interim) Design, installation and maintenance accidents 2019 vs. 2018 Europe 54,7 Egypt, Morocco, South Africa, Tunisia, United Arab Emirates Franke Coffee Systems of custom kitchen solutions for the The Americas 31,8 Marco Zancolò + 14,5 % food service sector. The range includes complete kitchen interiors, renovations, Asia/Oceania 10,7 special equipment and replacement parts, Africa/Middle East 2,8 including technical services. Employees by region Brands Franke Water Systems Increase in net sales 2019 Integrated systems for commercial, semi-public/public washrooms and 2019 vs. 2018 Franke Carron Chain Link private bathrooms. The range includes tap fittings, showers, sinks, accessories Services Dalla Corte Dart Valley 91,9 % Systems Dominox Elikor Easi Serv and water management systems including fittings for private kitchens. Franke Coffee Systems Eurodomo Faber Facility Solutions Coffee machines and services for professional away-from-home coffee preparaProduction sites with quality Europe IN % 61,1 Inc FIFO Kindred KWC Mepamsa tion. The range includes full and semi-automatic machines, traditional machines management certification The Americas Asia/Oceania 15,6 17,8 Newair Nokite Roblin S2K Sertek and filter coffee machines. in 2019 Africa/Middle East 5,5 Spar 6 FRANKE GROUP SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2019 GROUP PROFILE 7 FRANKE GROUP SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2019 GROUP PROFILE OUR CONTRIBUTION TO THE UNITED NATIONS' SUSTAINABILITY GOALS The 17 sustainable development goals (SDGs) of the United Nations are funOVERVIEW OF THE 11 TARGETED SUSTAINABLE DEVELOPMENT GOALS damentally important in the promotion of sustainable development. Since our 2017 sustainability report we have been focusing on 11 of these global targets. Environmental Responsibility We are firmly convinced that we as a business can contribute to the successful Ensure availability and sustainable management of water and sanitation for all. fulfillment of these selected goals, through our sustainability endeavors. Ensure access to affordable, reliable, sustainable and modern energy for all. In 2015, the UN member states formulated a series of Take urgent action to combat climate change and its impacts. goals to protect the Earth, reduce poverty and ensure prosperity for as many people as possible. With their global Protect, restore and promote sustainable use of terrestrial ecosystems, sustainably manage forests, combat orientation, these 17 SDGs serve as a guideline for jointly desertification, and halt and reverse land degradation and halt biodiversity loss. tackling the most urgent challenges on the planet within the international community. Achieving these goals by In a next step, the identified SDGs were embedded Social Responsibility 2030 will also depend to a large extent on the actions of into our four reporting areas (Ecology, Social Responglobal companies. Franke Group accepts this responsibilisibility, Economy and Product Responsibility). Specific Ensure healthy lives and promote well-being for all at all ages. ty, and wants to play its part in sustainable development. activities were therefore allocated to the SDGs. This systematic development helps us to identify our risks and opportunities in relation to the SDGs, and to better Ensure inclusive and equitable quality education and promote lifelong learning opportunities for all. Franke does not only see susdefine the corresponding indicators, measures and targets. tainability as a social obligation Achieve gender equality and empower all women and girls. Franke sees sustainability not only as a social obligation, but also as an essential component of its long-term Integration of the SDGs into Franke’s sustainability corporate success. In recent years, we have already Economical Responsibility ambitions achieved a great deal in this area and are committed Based on the materiality analysis according to the GRI Stanto consistently improving our activities for the benefit Promote sustained, inclusive and sustainable economic growth, full and productive employment and decent work for all. dards, Franke has identified 12 key topics it focuses on in its of our numerous stakeholders and the environment, sustainability management. We have examined the extent to increasing our efficiency and finding new, forward-lookPromote peaceful and inclusive societies for sustainable development, provide access to justice for all and which these issues support the UN sustainability goals. ing solutions. build effective, accountable and inclusive institutions at all levels. The analysis results in a list of 11 SDGs (see chart on the right) localized along our value-added chain. In this Kirill Bourovoi Product Responsibility way, we were able to make our contribution to the SDGs Manager Sustainability Franke Group more concrete. Group Head of Learning & Development Ensure healthy lives and promote well-being for all at all ages. Build resilient infrastructure, promote inclusive and sustainable industrialization and foster innovation. Ensure sustainable consumption and production patterns. 8 FRANKE GROUP SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2019 UN SUSTAINABILITY GOALS: OUR CONTRIBUTION 9 FRANKE GROUP SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2019 UN SUSTAINABILITY GOALS: OUR CONTRIBUTION STRATEGY AND VALUE CHAIN Franke’s strategic business areas are resource-intensive, and have a signiAs our products are used for a comparatively long time, Baths, showers and toilets must be designed for a consuthis has a positive impact on the energy and raw material mer life of 30 years. This shows that, compared to other ficant impact on the environment. After all, food preparation and housing footprint over a product’s entire life cycle. Many of our areas of the consumer goods industry (household appliare, along with mobility, the most important areas of humankind's resource products are designed for long-term use, reliability and ances, cosmetics or electronics), kitchen and bathroom repairability: For example, the recommended service technology has a long life cycle. consumption. This means that we can have a correspondingly important life of a private kitchen in Switzerland is 20 to 25 years. influence on business and the environment. THE FRANKE VALUE CHAIN Our business model Longevity of our products Franke’s five divisions offer product systems and Food preparation, sanitary and hygiene technology Supply chain Locations Products services in four strategic business areas, specializing as well as accommodation are essential aspects of in food & beverage preparation and water management everyday living. As a result, our products correspond & hygiene systems for the commercial and private segwith intensity of use and the associated resources ments. In the commercial segment, everything revolves required are considerable. In both the home and around equipping foodservice kitchens and semi-public commercial sectors, much of our energy and resourand public washrooms with integrated systems, as well ce consumption is linked to kitchens and bathrooms, Raw materials Components Manufacturing Sales User Recycling as away-from-home coffee preparation. In the private and this impacts our branded products. It means that segment, the main focus is on equipping household kitFranke has a big influence on society and the environchens with integrated kitchen systems for food preparament, and has great potential to do good. Sustainability along our value chain serviceable life. Products such as our ovens or hobs can tion, cooking and exhaust air cleaning, as well as private The sustainable consumption of resources in the developinfluence food during preparation, while taps and filters bathrooms with taps and accessories. ment and production of our products, and their effects on can affect the cleanliness of water, or of air, in the case of climate change, are central themes of our strategy. As a extractor hoods. Gastronomy, for example, is an importmanufacturing company, we have a great responsibility ant consumer of resources. Along with customers such OUR STRATEGIC AREAS towards the environment – but also towards our employees as fast-food chains, DIY stores or kitchen and bathroom and our owner. dealers, other major customers also rely on our products: Commercial Residential as a globally active original equipment manufacturer, we We influence people and the environment throughout are partners of multinationals – and our actions can have Restaurant Kitchen our value-added chain and product life cycle. This starts a positive impact on their resource efficiency. with the quarrying and production of raw materials and Food and covers transport and logistics, the suppliers of our semiOutlook beverage finished products and components, manufacturing and We take a long-term perspective beyond our products: preparation LANDLORD BUSINESS OWNER HOME OWNER LANDLORD distribution through to end use, disposal and recycling. Sustainability is a central pillar of our business strategy. Franke Foodservice Systems Franke Kitchen Systems People are involved at every stage, and resources are Franke has set itself the goal of becoming the world’s Franke Coffee Systems Faber Hoods & Cooking Systems needed, accordingly. The sustainable use of resources leading supplier of systems for food & beverage preparation at all our sites is a cornerstone of our strategy. and water management & hygiene, and aims to achieve Washroom Bath growth both organically and through acquisitions, and to Our upstream and downstream processes affect custocontinuously improve its profitability. Franke’s management Water mers in areas from maintenance through to food preparaand the company owner build on a long-term approach, and management tion. At Franke, we also include topics such as the health are aware of their responsibility towards the environment, and hygiene LANDLORD BUSINESS OWNER HOME OWNER LANDLORD and safety of all people who come into contact with our society, and the economy. “For me, sustainability means products in our area of responsibility. fairness towards future generations”, says Michael Pieper, Franke Water Systems Franke Water Systems owner of Franke. “In everything we do, we should be able to This means the health of our employees, the work-life look our children and grandchildren in the eye with a clear balance and the safety of our products throughout their conscience. Acting sustainably is therefore a must”. 10 FRANKE GROUP SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2019 STRATEGY AND VALUE CHAIN 11 FRANKE GROUP SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2019 STRATEGY AND VALUE CHAIN General principles and code of conduct Monitoring of the sustainability performance by the SUSTAINABILITY MANAGEMENT Various sustainability topics are the subject of policies. A series of internal policies address sustainability and Board of Directors The Finance and Audit Committee of Franke's Board of business ethics matters: Directors discusses risks and opportunities relevant to Code of Conduct: Legislation, occupational safety, Franke, when approving the annual risk report. basic labor standards against child labor, forced labor and discrimination, sexual harassment in the Evaluation of the sustainability performance of the workplace, anti-corruption, gifts and entertainBoard of Directors ment, theft, fraud and dishonesty and disclosure of There is no formal procedure for evaluating the perforinformation. The code of conduct applies worldwide mance of the Board of Directors from a holistic sustainand is available on the intranet in 13 languages. In ability perspective. December 2019, a revised version of the Code was Through its existing management structures, Franke assures that goverreleased. In addition, an “integrity line” is available Precautionary approach to all employees, who can contact the General The precautionary principle plays an important role for nance requirements are fulfilled. These requirements are explained in more Counsel confidentially and anonymously if they have Franke as a production and distribution company. The detail below, with regard to sustainability. We also present our internal guiconcerns about integrity. precautionary principle is also expressed in the quality, Supplier Code of Conduct: Minimum requirements environment, occupational safety management systems delines and key stakeholders. regarding employment practices, environmental implemented at the various sites. On the operational side, protection and business integrity that must be met the precautionary principle is implemented by pursuing by all our suppliers. The supplier code has been preventive approaches to environmental protection, adopted by the Franke Management Board; its reoccupational safety and quality assurance. Franke has a vised version came into force on January 1, 2020. comprehensive system for the control and management Management structure and committees reporting to How shareholders and employees can submit Group Guidelines: Equal opportunities and diversity, of all risks associated with its business. In line with the the Board of Directors recommendations to the Board of Directors employee relations, personal safety and emergency ISO 31000 standard, Group Risk Management acts as the Franke has a two-tier management structure: Michael Pieper, the owner and President/CEO of planning, business travel, information security. interface between all the management systems. All FranArtemis Group, is a member of the Board of Directors Sustainability principles: internally defined frameke companies have clearly defined contingency planning of Franke Holding AG. work for improving the economic, ecological and in place and conduct an annual risk analysis in which key Board of Directors of Franke Holding AG (Franke Group) social performance of Franke. risks are identified. All the production companies must 5 members There are no employee representatives in the boards of directors. The employee representatives of the Management Board of Franke Holding AG (Franke Group) European companies meet regularly at the Franke GENERAL PRINCIPLES AND CODES OF CONDUCT 8 members Forum (European Works Council) with members of the Management Board of Franke. Specific concerns can be brought to the attention of the Board of Directors Supplier Code of Conduct In this section, we present the current situation of in this way. Minimum requirements regarding the organisation as of September 2020. The purpose, employment practices, environmental duties and responsibilities of each body are defined in Relationship between payment and company perprotection and business integrity that must be met by all our suppliers. The our bylaws and in the company regulations. The memformance Code of Conduct Supplier Code was also approved by bers of the board of directors of Franke Holding AG are The remuneration of the members of the Board of Legal compliance the Franke Management Board. responsible for the strategic direction of the company; Directors is independent of the Group’s performance. Health and Safety Fundamental labor standards they have various non-transferable, irrevocable duties in against child/forced labor and accordance with the Swiss Code of Obligations. In 2019, the members of the Franke Management discrimination Sustainability Principles Board, like other employees, received incentives Prevention of sexual harassment Equal opportunity and diversity The Board of Directors has three permanent internal through a combination of personal and financial Anti-corruption Employee relations Rules for dealing with gifts and boards: an Audit Committee, an Information Technology objectives. Depending on the business area, personal Personal safety and emergency entertainment planning Committee (IT Committee) and a Human Resources targets may be linked to social and environmental Prevention of theft, fraud and disCommittee (HR Committee). The Board of Directors and performance. Business travel honesty as well as rules concerning Information security the committees met regularly in 2019. Franke's Managethe disclosure of information ment Board consists of eight members. More details on Mechanisms by which the Board of Directors the management structure can be found here: avoids conflicts of interest The Code applies worldwide and is available on the intranet in How conflicts of interest of the members of the Sustainability Principles 13 languages. ▸ www.franke.com▸ ▸ ▸ About us ▸ ▸ Group Structure Board of Directors can be avoided is defined in the Internally defined framework for improcode of conduct and specified in the organizational ving the economic, environ­mental and In addition, an integrity line that can social performance of Franke. Separation of the Board of Directors from the busiregulations. Members of the Board of Directors may be used by all employees to report ness management not participate in any matters affecting their personal integrity concerns in a confidential and anonymous manner was rolled No member of Franke's Board of Directors or of its interests or those of any affiliate or person closely out in 2013. committees is involved in the operational management linked to them. of the company. 12 FRANKE GROUP SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2019 SUSTAINABILITY MANAGEMENT 13 FRANKE GROUP SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2019 SUSTAINABILITY MANAGEMENT also have an emergency management plan in place, to Approaches to stakeholder interaction MOST IMPORTANT STAKEHOLDERS 2019 ensure a rapid, competent response in the event of an Dialog with external stakeholders is currently highly emergency. In addition, our employees on business trips decentralized. We are continuing to work on formalizing are also supported by an external intervention specialist our interactions with representatives of key stakeholdCustomer insights: Structured interviews with Consultation with and inclusion of the in crisis situations. ers, and aim to establish a structured process for dialog end-consumers as well as online panels and neighbors of production sites in larger by 2020. focus groups in various countries are conconstruction projects. ducted by external service providers and our Local External agreements and initiatives customer insights department in order communities, Outsourcing of work such as Franke has been an active member of the UN Global Reaction to key issues and stakeholder interests to better understand the needs of our authorities, assembling and packaging media, Compact since January 2011. We also participate in Sustainability issues are increasingly becoming the customers. regulators of products to institutions that Customers and provide home and work for the activities of the local Global Compact network in focus of discussion with both internal and external consumers Customer contacts: Franke service disabled adults by different Franke Switzerland. stakeholders. The following central topics and interests companies. technicians working in the field are in are addressed in particular: day-to-day contact with kitchen studios, ▸ www.unglobalcompact.org What our major customers require in terms of sustainarchitects, restaurant owners, real estate ability standards: surveys on sustainability managedevelopers, etc. Our key account managers Career days: Participation in dedicated to large customers in order to betBy voluntarily applying the guidelines of the Global ment and certifications. ter serve their needs. Potential future recruitment days at universities. Reporting Initiative for Sustainability Reporting (GRI Instructions on how Franke products support building employees Presentation of case studies standard), we aim to contribute to transparency and standards compliance: We apply the LEED and MinTrade shows: Franke businesses are present at universities and support of at leading trade shows in many countries comparability in sustainability reporting. ergie criteria to some of our products, to determine university projects. in order to display new products and foster which of our products best meet these standards. customer relations. Membership in associations and organizations Operational Excellence program: Achieving excelFranke is active in a number of industry associations lence and meeting social and environmental standards and initiatives in various countries. Many of these orgathrough the systematic management of operational Franke Forum: Annual meeting of Suppliers and business partners initial contact as part of the supnizations deal with sustainability issues, for example by safety, reliability, efficiency and total cost reduction. the employee representatives of the European Suppliers and plier pre-screening and evaluation defining best practice standards or developing product As in the prior year, the 2019 program also contributcompanies with a member of business partners the Franke Management Board. process, mainly on issues related labels. These include: ed to improving Franke’s competitiveness by reducing to quality and lead time. CECED (European Committee of Domestic Equipment costs. Consultation of the various works councils Regular discussions between buyers Manufacturers), which represents the household at plant level by the local Human Resources organization and/or local management. and suppliers, both on site and in the appliance industry in Europe Key topics context of audits. öbu, the Swiss association and think tank for ecologiThe following 12 topics are covered in the succeeding Communication through internal chancally conscious corporate management chapters: nels such as the CEO letter, employee magazine or intranet. Employees Advance Women, with the aim of continuously and acSince the owner of Franke is a Owner member of the Board of Directors tively increasing the proportion of women in manageEnvironmental Responsibility: Employees attend an introductory of the Franke Group, he decides ment positions at Swiss companies through a series of Energy efficiency in production program when joining the company on the strategy together with the specific measures Water, wastewater Engagement opportunities and employee Board of Directors. Material efficiency in production participation at plant level Relevant stakeholders Resource-efficient products Franke considers the following stakeholders to be Social Responsibility: relevant: Leadership development Customers and consumers Occupational health and safety Employees Economical Responsibility: In 2019, with 72 branches and 9,362 employees (FTE), Suppliers and business partners Profitability Franke generated sales of CHF 2,423.1 million. The Local communities, authorities, media, regulators Business integrity balance sheet total amounted to CHF 2,213.4 million Potential future employees Human rights at the end of 2019. The equity ratio was 51.9% in 2019. Product Responsibility: Franke’s products are sold to various customers includBasis for selecting the stakeholders Product reliability and longevity ing fast-food chains, wholesalers, kitchen studios and Franke is aware that the company interacts with various Product safety construction companies, in over 100 countries. stakeholders. These stakeholders were selected as Product innovation significant for a systematic stakeholder dialog because they fulfill at least one of the following two criteria: Legal form, company size and markets They exert a strong influence on Franke’s economic, Franke Holding AG is a joint-stock Swiss-law company, environmental or social performance and/or are strong100 percent owned by Artemis Holding AG (Artemis ly influenced by Franke’s economic, environmental or Group). social performance. 14 FRANKE GROUP SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2019 SUSTAINABILITY MANAGEMENT 15 FRANKE GROUP SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2019 SUSTAINABILITY MANAGEMENT ENVIRONME NT A L RESPONSIB ILIT Y ENVIRONMENTAL RESPONSIBILITY Essential topics and our contribution to No product is manufactured without a careful use of resources. Optimizing the sustainable development eco-sustainable use of these resources is of primary importance. Reducing emissions, recycling waste materials and increasing the energy efficiency of our ENERGY EFFICIENCY IN PRODUCTION SDG 7: Affordable and clean energy products are important steps in ensuring a good life for future generations. SDG 13: Climate action WATER, WASTEWATER Since Franke was established over 100 years ago, nuENVIRONMENTAL MANAGEMENT SYSTEMS SDG 6: Clean water and sanitation­ merous environmental protection initiatives have been launched as a result of new legislation, stakeholder 2019 2018 interests or for efficiency reasons. The positive effects of Franke’s environmental actions are felt across the Production sites certified in accordance 31/37 31/37 MATERIAL EFFICIENCY IN PRODUCTION entire value chain. with ISO 14001 SDG 15: Life on land To concentrate our resources, we focus on those Franke is committed to continuously reducing the ecologsegments of the value chain where we can exert the ical impact of its everyday operations, where economicalmost influence, and where the greatest impact can be ly feasible and where environmentally friendly technolRESOURCE-EFFICIENT PRODUCTS achieved. Our focus areas are product development and ogies are available. Bruno Triet, Chief Risk & Real Estate SDG 13: Climate action innovation, resource efficiency (specifically raw materiFranke Group, is responsible for the majority of these als, energy, water and waste), and we invest in environmeasures – in particular for risk assessments, which also mentally friendly production processes. Over the long include ecological aspects. A series of measures are in term, we also intend to reduce our ecological footprint place to reduce the environmental impact of our operain the logistics area. tions: Environmental management systems at the Franke companies ensure that ecological effects are identified RISKS AND OPPORTUNITIES OF CLIMATE CHANGE and controlled. Franke strives for the continuous certification of all production companies to the ISO 14001 Climate change requires the efficient use of energy and standard. By the end of 2019, 31 of the 37 production water. With the need to use these resources in a smarter companies had been certified to ISO 14001. fashion in the future, demand for products that consume less energy and/or water will increase. We at Franke have As in the previous year, all Franke companies exset ourselves the goal that our innovative products will meet changed best practices in order to learn from success these requirements. Based on our annual risk analysis, we stories (such as the optimization of building heating believe that Franke is only exposed to climate change risks systems, the transition to electric forklift trucks or the (such as natural hazards at production sites or transport use of solar power). facilities) in certain cases. For example, we may have sites which are in areas at risk of flooding or tornadoes. There The review of the environmental data collected in 2018, are currently no special CO2 regulations, such as emissions along with the sharpening of definitions, provided a ceilings, which we have to comply with. However, Franke is solid basis to build on in 2019. This means that the doing everything in its power to continuously reduce CO2 absence rate was again reliably calculated, and reemissions on a voluntary basis, especially at its energy-innewable product materials have again been expressly tensive production sites. In addition, Franke strives to continuously reduce energy consumption in order to take recognized. In general, the monitoring of environmenresponsibility for the environment and to counteract rising tal data enables the continuous monitoring of progress energy prices. and, thanks to the constant focus on improved data quality, has also led to a reliable source of information. 18 FRANKE GROUP SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2019 ENVIRONMENTAL XXX RESPONSIBILITY 19 FRANKE GROUP SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2019 ENVIRONMENTAL RESPONSIBILITY It goes without saying that environmental regulatory ENERGY CONSUMPTION (IN ABSOLUTE TERMS) compliance is a minimum requirement for all of Franke’s activities. UNIT 2019 2018* DIFR 2019/2018 Electricity MWh 94 508 100 507 –6,0% Natural gas m³ 5 141 175 5 694 724 –9,7% ENERGY EFFICIENCY IN PRODUCTION District heat MWh 14 529 16 808 –13,6% Heating oil extra light Liters 391 543 405 262 –3,4% Subtotal excluding fuel GJ 593 413 643 821 –7,8% In 2019, Franke implemented measures to reduce the At the production sites in Gebze, near Istanbul in Diesel Liters 1 753 962 1 680 555 4,4% environmental impact of its production in the following Turkey, the cutting machines have been optimized, Gasoline Liters 252 896 252 778 0,0% areas: which has reduced waste. Total GJ 663 952 711 736 –6,7% Franke Aquarotter in Ludwigsfelde, Germany, has At the Bad Säckingen plant in Germany, building * Subsequent data corrections for 2018 already achieved substantial success in waste manheating technologies have been optimized, and agement as part of a comprehensive environmental employees have been given guidance in this respect. program that was further expanded in 2017. In 2018 Energy savings have resulted from the more targeted alone, the site’s non-recyclable residual waste was use of the air-conditioning system and by reducing ENERGY CONSUMPTION (IN RELATION TO NET SALES) reduced by as much as 57 percent. In 2019 the efthe time that lights are switched on. Staff have been fects of the program were still visible. The mandatory trained to use the air conditioning correctly on hot UNIT 2019 2018* DIFR 2019/2018 waste reporting data shows a 9 percent reduction, summer days. while non-recyclable residual waste was reduced by Electricity MWh/m CHF 39 47 –17,8% approximately 20 percent. Systematic energy management was expanded at variNatural gas m3/m CHF 2122 2690 –21,1% In 2019, FFB Industrias Spar San Luis S.A., Argentina, ous Franke locations. Software for the online, real-time District heating MWh/m CHF 6 8 –24,5% was re-equipped with electronic and gas-powered monitoring of energy consumption and the installation of Heating oil extra light Liters/m CHF 162 191 –15,6% forklift trucks. This has had a positive impact on air additional meters will ensure transparent energy flows, Fuels Liters/m CHF 828 913 –9,3% quality, and has saved on fuel costs. enabling further optimization measures for hydraulic Total GJ/m CHF 274 336 –18,5% Changes to the waste technologies used at the Slopresses or compressed air. * Subsequent data corrections for 2018 vakian site have generated less toxic waste. A large proportion of the waste products generated from Energy consumption molding and washing can now be reused in a polymerFranke mainly uses externally purchased energy. CO2-EMISSIONS ization process, so these products can be collected as It obtains energy in the form of electricity, natural non-toxic waste. gas, district heating and extra-light heating oil. Energy UNIT 2019 2018* DIFR 2019/2018 consumption for 20191 and changes compared to the ENERGY CONSUMPTION IN GIGAJOULE previous year are shown in the Energy consumption Scope 1 (from fuels and combustibles) Metric tons (t) 16 475 17 287 –4,7% (in absolute terms) table (see page 21). Scope 2 (from electricity and district heating) Metric tons (t) 33 976 38 893 –12,6% 663 952 800 000 Absolute CO₂ emissions Metric tons (t) 50 480 56 180 –10,1% The 3.4 percent reduction in heating oil consumption is 711 736 Relative CO₂ emissions (Scope 1 and 2) t/million CHF 21 27 –21,5% 700 000 relatively low, and is due to the warm winter in various parts of eastern Europe. Fluctuations are generally * Subsequent data corrections for 2018 600 000 to be expected for heating oil, as it is usually stored in large tanks, which are only topped up as required, 500 000 and according to the trend in market prices. Natural At the same time, the much more efficient production sales have increased, the relative changes in energy gas consumption in 2019 was 9.7 percent down on the system was started up in Slovakia. On the other hand, consumption have fallen more sharply than the abso340 277 prior year. This is primarily due to the lower production remote heating is mainly influenced by the weather lute changes. 361 826 400 000 volumes at two sites, one in the UK and one in Egypt. conditions. At Franke's Russian site in St. Petersburg, 300 000 the warm winter meant that less district heating had to Greenhouse gas emissions 186 787 Diesel consumption in 2019 rose slightly compared to be used. The district heating intensive operations at the In absolute terms, greenhouse gas emissions (Scope 1 206 898 the previous year. This increase is due to the infrequent Slovakian site of Zilina also terminated in 2019. and Scope 2) decreased by 10.1 percent. This decrease 200 000 use of fuel for generators, where there are disruptions can be explained by the reduced emissions from elec52 306 62 599 or bottlenecks. Gasoline consumption remained almost Franke’s total energy consumption fell slightly comtricity consumption on the one hand, and by the lower 100 000 60 510 14 093 59 979 7940 the same. pared to the prior year. The greatest energy savings power consumption on the other. 14 587 7936 0 were in electricity (see the gigajoule figures in the bar In relation to net sales (tons of CO2 per million Swiss Fluctuations in electricity consumption in 2019 were chart on page 20). This was closely followed by natfrancs), greenhouse gas emissions in 2019 fell by 21.5 Total ElectriNatural District Heating oil Diesel Gasoline city gas heat extra light largely due to changes in production volumes and plant ural gas. Relative energy consumption, which includes percent compared with 2018. Electricity consumption 2019 2018* closures. The closure of the production site in Falkirk, Group net sales, changed significantly compared to (around 64 percent of total greenhouse gas emissions) * Subsequent data corrections for 2018 Scotland, had a major impact on electricity consumption. the previous year. As the year-on-year Group-wide net was once again by far the most important source of CO2. 1 Regarding the reporting year 2019, the data for two legal entities had to be estimated due to missing information in our group-wide reporting tool. This applies to all data in this chapter coming from this tool. 20 FRANKE GROUP SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2019 ENVIRONMENTAL RESPONSIBILITY 21 FRANKE GROUP SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2019 ENVIRONMENTAL RESPONSIBILITY Reduction of greenhouse gas emissions and energy SDG reference SDG reference Franke strives for a more sustainable use of water consumption By using renewable energy to promote clean energy With regard to SDG 6 Clean water and sanitation , resources throughout the entire water cycle. Although To reduce greenhouse gas emissions, we pursue two sources, Franke is contributing to SDG 7 Affordable Franke can reduce users' water consumption through it is not yet possible, at least for the time being, to set goals: and clean energy and SDG 13 Climate action . Admitits resource-efficient product range for kitchens and a quantitative target for water conservation, Franke 1. Implement energy-saving measures and increase tedly, the achievement of this goal comes with a risk of bathroom areas. This enables Franke to stand out from nevertheless aims to reduce water consumption and energy efficiency. high initial investments. This, however, gives Franke the the competition, meet customer needs at an early make a contribution to a more sustainable water man2. Switch to renewable or low-carbon energy sources: opportunity to achieve an independent, affordable and stage and contribute to the sustainable management agement throughout the water cycle. When constructing new buildings or renovating existsustainable energy supply in the long term. The use of of water and sanitation. In addition, Franke ensures the ing ones, Franke always tries, depending on availabilrenewable energy also makes an important contribution efficient use of water in production. ity, to promote the use of renewable energies, heat to climate protection. Franke also has the opportunity to pumps, heat recovered from production processes, become more resilient to volatile energy prices. and district heating. Franke is pursuing the goal of continuing to promote MATERIAL EFFICIENCY IN PRODUCTION To further reduce consumption at the most energy-inthe conversion to renewable energies, and for the tensive sites, targets and measures have been defined, fourth year running has been able to reduce its CO2 such as optimizing building heating systems and training balance. The promotion of renewable energies made Franke uses a large number of materials of different several shortcomings and that the allocation of materistaff to notice the effects of simple behavioral changes. this reduction possible to a significant degree. quantity and quality. The main materials we use in our als was not uniform throughout Franke. As wood is not production are metals (predominantly stainless steel), centrally purchased, decentralized data collection is the quartz and plastics as well as semi-finished and finished best possible solution products. When processing stainless steel for sinks, WATER, WASTEWATER kitchen covers and equipment, cutting and punching the Share of recycled raw materials in total raw material material results in a large amount of recyclable waste. input This is returned to the manufacturer and reused for the Stainless steel, which is the main component of many WATER AND WASTEWATER production process of the raw material. This process is of our products, is estimated to be 91 percent recyreflected in the reported figures. As a result, Franke has cled materials. The share compared to the previous UNIT 2019 2018* DIFR 2019/2018 a large amount of scrap and a high proportion of recyyear has increased by four percentage points. This cled materials due to its resources and production. estimate comes from our largest steel supplier. For Water consumption m3 579 021 641 064 –9,7% both brass (four percent) and carbon steel and galvaRelative water consumption m /m CHF 3 239 303 –21,1% Since Franke reported its comparative figures on materinized steel (10 percent), the proportion of recovered als consumption for the first time in 2017, for this year’s constituents is rather low in each case. MMA (methyl Wastewater channeled into treatment plants m3 270 057 264 031 2,3% report we were able to rely on the data collected in methacrylate), quartz, SMC, plastic and brass do not Total wastewater m3 574 240 635 250 -9,6% 2018 using an improved, established process. Data was contain any recovered constituents. As a result, in the Relative wastewater m /m CHF 3 236 300 –21,0% collected and carefully checked in close cooperation reporting year, the proportion of recovered constitu* Subsequent data corrections for 2018 with the Central Purchasing department. In addition to ents from all non-renewable materials was 47 percent. improving data quality, this also resulted in closer coopIt is thanks to the Central Purchasing department that eration between the Central Purchasing department and statements of this kind are even possible. Water consumption on the production intensity. For this reason, we do not sustainability reporting. Franke mainly uses drinking water from the public set quantitative targets for water consumption. The cardboard we use for our packaging consists mainly water supply system, and well water. Closed water The increase in the purchased quantities of quartz and of recycled constituents (estimated at 90 percent of cycles have been achieved at most of the international Water sources significantly affected by the removal SMC (sheet molded compound) compared to the previthe total cardboard used). The pallets, which also make production sites. The consumption of water for 2019 of water ous year is particularly notable. It can be explained by the up a large part of the renewable packaging materials, has decreased compared to 2018. This is partially due The water consumption of our production sites does renewed increase in the production of synthetic sinks in consist of wood, a naturally renewable raw material. to the optimization of the varnishing process at the not represent a significant burden for water sources as 2019. There was also reduced use of carbon steel and Chinese factory in Heshan. The water required for this defined in the GRI guidelines. galvanized steel. This is due to three factors: a change in Total weight of waste process is recirculated within the machine, and is only the product portfolio, lower sales figures and changes to In 2019, 25,999 tons of non-hazardous waste were released into surface water every one to two months. Total wastewater discharge product design following an improvement process. generated, including scrap metal, and 1,541 tons of In relation to net sales (m³ per million CHF), this resultIn 2019, 574,240 m³ of wastewater was discharged, hazardous waste. Non-hazardous waste has risen by ed in a reduction of 21.1 percent compared to the prior which is 9.6 percent less than in 2018. The relative In addition, since 2018 we have primarily reported on 10.3 percent, and hazardous waste has increased by year. However, it should be stressed that collecting volume of wastewater in 2019 was 237 m³ per million the centrally purchased raw materials. Of the materials 4.8 percent compared to 2018. Total waste in relation reliable data on water consumption is challenging, due CHF, 21 percent lower than in 2018. A small amount of previously reported on a decentralized basis (materials to net sales (tons of waste per million Swiss francs) was to a lack of water meters. This was particularly noticewastewater was disposed of by external specialist comfrom renewable sources and unclassified/miscellaneous 6.4 percent lower in 2019 than in 2018. able in 2017, when the reporting system was partially panies. In 2019, there were no unplanned wastewater materials), since 2019 the renewable materials (primarily revised. Clear improvements can be seen here for discharges at Franke. wood) have been re-presented. We hope with the 2020 845 tons of hazardous waste were reused or recycled 2018. We have therefore come one step closer to our report to make the first meaningful comparisons, which in 2018. In 2019, this figure fell by 4.3 percent to 809 goal of continuously improving data quality. At Group The volume of water forwarded to a treatment plant and are not yet possible based on the currently available tons. Hazardous waste, which goes to landfill or is incinlevel, water data is primarily dependent on the number not directly discharged into surface water or groundwadata. As part of the measures to improve data quality, it erated, also fell, by 5.4 percent from 774 tons in 2018 of production sites, while at company level it depends ter has increased by 2.3 percent year on year. was found that the decentralized recording system had to 732 tons in 2019. 22 FRANKE GROUP SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2019 ENVIRONMENTAL RESPONSIBILITY 23 FRANKE GROUP SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2019 ENVIRONMENTAL RESPONSIBILITY MATERIALS BY WEIGHT WASTE MATERIALS IN METRIC TONS (T) 2019 2018 DIFR 2019/2018 UNIT 2019 2018* DIFR 2019/2018 Stainless steel 29 612 32 701 –9,4% Total non-hazardous waste Metric tons (t) 25 999 23 577 10,3% Carbon and galvanized steel 11 736 14 367 –18,3% Hazardous waste to be reused or recycled Metric tons (t) 809 845 –4,3% MMA (methyl methacrylate), mostly used for acrylic 2252 2236 0,7% Quartz 7997 7346 8,9% Hazardous waste disposed of in landfills or Metric tons (t) 732 774 –5,4% SMC (sheet molded compound), mostly used for incinerators 2421 2076 16,6% fiber-reinforced plastics Hazardous waste total Metric tons (t) 1541 1618 –4,8% Plastic 2112 2250 –6,1% Total waste Metric tons (t) 27 540 25 195 9,3% Brass 2597 2450 6,0% Relative waste Mt/m CHF 11 12 –6,4% Glass 1350 1450 –6,9% Total weight of non-renewable materials 60 077 64 876 –7,4% * Subsequent data corrections for 2018 Renewable materials (e.g. wood) 1486 1105 34,5% Total weight of renewable materials 1486 1105 34,5% PACKAGING MATERIAL ACCORDING TO WEIGHT MATERIALS IN METRIC TONS (T) 2019 2018* DIFR 2019/2018 Since 2018, we have produced the same breakdown for The classification of packaging materials is still relativenon-hazardous waste as well. Due to the large quantities ly new for Franke companies. Collecting reliable data Renewable packaging material 16 971 16 102 5,4% of scrap metal, the proportion of reused and recycled poses a challenge for individual companies, and is thus Non-renewable packaging material 6237 6826 –8,6% non-hazardous waste is particularly high (73 percent). mainly based on estimates. In the future, we expect Total weight of packaging material 23 208 22 929 1,2% this data to be recorded more precisely at company * Subsequent data corrections for 2018 The decrease in hazardous waste and the simultaneous inlevel and consequently more meaningful at Group level. crease in non-hazardous waste disposed of at incineration Based on this, development opportunities are then to be plants is largely attributable to the Slovakian site. On the identified and clear measures defined. one hand there has been a massive increase in operations RESOURCE-EFFICIENT PRODUCTS where, in comparison to other products, there is a use of SDG reference non-recyclable synthetic polymers. On the other hand, the The efficient use of resources and materials leads to a Strečno site has optimized its waste technologies. Recentlower environmental impact, in particular with regard The company’s responsibility begins with product reached. Another feature of this line of extractor hoods is ly, the flows resulting from molding and washing that were to SDG 15 Life on land . Franke has managed to development. The aim is to develop energy-efficient that it belongs to energy efficiency class A. previously treated as hazardous waste have started to be generate less waste through its resource-efficient proand resource-saving products that are safe for end At the Smyrna site in the USA, pleasing progress has reused in a second step, so that they can be treated as duction and the associated process optimizations, and consumers. Our products’ greatest environmental been made with the cooling agent used in refrigerators. non-toxic waste. is contributing to reducing its environmental impact contribution lies in their economical use of energy and The new refrigerators are now manufactured using prothrough recycling. (hot) water, which indirectly saves energy and water. pane, not with the ozone-damaging HCFC (chlorodifluoWeight of the packaging material At the same time, our customers can save money romethane). The climate-damaging potential of propane A distinction is made between renewable and non-renewImprovements could not be achieved in all categories in when using our products. This is why we are constantis thousands of times lower than that of HCFC. able materials. The total weight of packaging materials in2019. Despite the increase in the amount of packaging ly working on making our products more resource-effiThe Coffee Systems division has introduced new, creased slightly on the prior year. The weight of renewable materials, there was a welcome reduction of 8.6 percent cient, as the following examples show: non-plastic coffee cups. The new paper cups are made packaging has increased by 5.4 percent. We also recorded in non-renewable packaging. KWC BEVO is a comprehensive new range of fittings from FSC wood, while the transparent beakers are a decrease of 8.6 percent in non-renewable packaging. for bathrooms that offers esthetically superior bathmade from corn and sugar cane. Both types are 100 room solutions. Bathtub and shower thermostats, percent natural and biodegradable. We were also able as well as the Coolfix option for sink mixers, allow a to commission an institution for people with special WASTE ACCORDING TO HAZARDOUSNESS notable reduction in water and energy consumption: needs to equip 20,000 cups with our logo. Careful use of resources combined with more comIN METRIC TONS (T) 2019 fort and safety. Although only a few of our products (taps, hobs and In 2019 Faber developed the K-air mini series, which will ovens in the EU) are required to display specific informaNon-hazardous waste to be reused or recycled 18 856 be marketed in 2020. The cooker hoods have a built-in tion on sustainability, Franke relies on labels to facilitate Non-hazardous waste disposed of in landfills or incinerators 7143 sensor which measures the air quality in the room, and informed purchasing decisions by our customers. Non-hazardous waste total 25 999 sends the data to the Faber app. The air filter function on These labels include: the extraction hood can be controlled and monitored usEU energy label (energy efficiency for extractor hoods Hazardous waste to be reused or recycled 809 ing the app at any time, not just when cooking, or can be and ovens) Hazardous waste disposed of in landfills or incinerators 732 set to autopilot. In autopilot mode, the extractor hood is PEFC Chain of Custody (indication of origin of wood) Hazardous waste total 1541 particularly efficient at regulating air quality, which means Well, WRAS and Energie Schweiz (water efficiency of Total waste 27 540 that the air is only filtered until the desired air quality is taps and shower heads) * Subsequent data corrections for 2018 24 FRANKE GROUP SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2019 ENVIRONMENTAL RESPONSIBILITY 25 FRANKE GROUP SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2019 ENVIRONMENTAL RESPONSIBILITY Franke aims to actively adapt to higher customer We were also able to make our products more resourceexpectations, regulatory changes, new labeling requirements or building standards. At the same time, efficient thanks to the large number of actions we have taken. However, we are aware that there is still a lot of TAKE CARE OF NATURE, TAKE CARE OF THE WASTE we are continuing to reduce the environmental risks development potential in this area. To systematically and impacts of our products and services, such as increase the resource efficiency of our products across our consumption of materials, energy and water, and the whole Group, we require more accurate data on the waste generation. impact of our products and on the countless improvement actions taken by the individual companies. Effect of our measures in the area of ecology Compared to 2018, the absolute reduction in greenhouse gas emissions (tons of CO2) of 10.1 percent and SDG reference the corresponding relative reduction of 21.5 percent In response to our global presence and our activities in (tons of CO2/CHF million of sales) is mainly attributable energy-intensive areas of the market, we are making Greener and cleaner: Franke France S.A.S. has contributed to a healthier ecoto the energy-efficient Slovakian plant. a significant contribution to SDG 13 Climate action through consumption-efficient products and custom system at its site in Chambly through a range of environmental actions, generaWe aim to continuously reduce our environmental solutions. Our resource-efficient products and systems ting much goodwill among its workforce in the process. impact, especially in terms of our energy consumpnot only save our customers money, but also reduce tion, but also in terms of material efficiency in their ecological footprint. production. Our energy-saving measures and energy efficiency should be increased, and the substitution We have set ourselves the goal of continuously develof high-CO2 energy sources for low-CO2 energy sourcoping the resource efficiency of our products, and of es should be further promoted. There is also potential providing our customers with specific information on France and Europe have a firm grip on the sustainability for improvement in the reported water, waste and sustainability. In 2019, we brought consumption-effidebate, and rightly so, says François-Xavier Gilbert, the packaging data. In order to better assess and concient products to market and – as the example of the Quality and Safety Manager of the subsidiary, which is sequently reduce water consumption, an increase in Active Plus tap shows – this also reduced water conbased in Chambly, 40 km north of Paris. Two years ago, data quality is indispensable. Despite some improvesumption. In this way, we are mobilizing our consumers the company planned multiple initiatives to make a conments in 2019, there is still room for optimization in in the fight against climate change and giving them an tribution to environmental protection at the site. the future. incentive to act on their awareness. This resulted in a series of projects which were launched by Franke France during the past year. The first is the planting of fruit trees on a plot of 3000 m² owned by the company behind the warehouse at the Chambly site. Gilbert explains: “We’ve planted apple, pear, cherry and plum trees. The trees are already thriving. However, we will have to be patient until the first harvest in August 2021”. Customers and staff should benefit Meanwhile, the results of introducing six large beehives on the same plot of land at Chambly should be seen much more quickly. A local beekeeping firm was commiscigarette butts were collected and sent by employees sioned for this project. “In the first year we are expecting to a specialized recycling facility. “We are making all a harvest of approximately 100 kg of natural honey , smokers aware that their cigarette butts should not be François-Xavier Gilbert is pleased to report. They will be thrown on the ground nor in the ordinary bins, but only in gifted equally to staff and customers. the ashtrays , explains Gilbert. The fruit tree and honey projects have been warmly welIt works. Franke France is expected to send 30,000 comed by staff at the Chambly site, who have really encigarette butts for recycling, with immediate effect. This gaged with the idea. There are plans for sustainable care is an exemplary contribution to greater sustainability, of the bee population, and to have the honey harvested considering that in Paris alone, according to data from by volunteers from their own ranks. “Happily, there is a the city authorities, each year 350 tons of cigarette butts lot of interest , says Gilbert. are picked up from the ground and end up as waste. Promoting recycling Responsibility for a sustainable approach to natural resources can also be seen through another project launched at Chambly in 2019. In a concerted action, 26 FRANKE GROUP SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2019 ENVIRONMENTAL RESPONSIBILITY 27 FRANKE GROUP SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2019 ENVIRONMENTAL RESPONSIBILITY SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY Essential topics and our contribution to Healthy, committed and well-trained employees and managers are the key to sustainable development the success of any company. With around 9,400 employees at 72 sites on five continents, Franke’s workforce plays a key role in its sustainability efforts. LEADERSHIP DEVELOPMENT SDG 4: Quality education SDG 5: Gender equality OCCUPATIONAL HEALTH AND SAFETY Our employees are our most valuable asset. As an HEADCOUNT BY REGION 2019 SDG 3: Good health and well-being employer, we bear a social responsibility for them and IN % their families. We therefore support them in staying healthy and continuously developing their skills. Europe 61,1 Not only does this avoid accidents in the workplace, Americas 15,6 it also contributes to the continuous improvement of Asia/Oceania 17,8 working conditions through regular employee surveys, Africa/Middle East 5,5 thereby increasing staff engagement. However, we also understand social responsibility to mean our obligation to respect internationally applicable human HEADCOUNT BY DIVISION 2019 rights at our sites and in our supply chain. By signing IN % the Global Compact in 2011, we committed to “supporting and respecting the protection of internationally Franke Kitchen Systems 32 proclaimed human rights” (Principle 1) and to “making Faber Hoods & Cooking Systems 22 sure that they are not complicit in human rights abusFranke Foodservice Systems 20 es” (Principle 2). Franke Water Systems 13 Franke Coffee Systems 7 Responsibility for Human Resources & Organization at Group Functions 6 Franke lies with the Chief Human Resources Officer, who reports directly to the CEO of Franke and is a The Franke values of “Enable people”, “Foster teammember of the Management Board. In addition, the work”, “Act entrepreneurial”, “Deliver solutions” and Human Resources (HR) Committee of the Board of “Be accountable” apply equally to all employees as Directors monitors personnel-related activities. guidelines and run through all our corporate communications. We expect our managers, as multipliers, to We conduct our business in accordance with high ethcreate an environment in which our employees are ical and moral standards. Our Code of Conduct (see willing to give their best and contribute to the developEconomic responsibility, p. 39) and internal policies ment of new ideas. The corporate value “Be accountdefine our business principles and are regarded as the able” has a direct link to sustainability and thus to the authoritative source for regulations on various topics activities described in this report. in the area of occupational safety. The focus is on the prevention of discrimination and harassment, the proTotal workforce motion of equal opportunities and diversity, collegiality In 2019, Franke employed an average of 9,362 full-time among employees and compliance with basic employequivalents (FTEs) worldwide, exactly the same as in ment standards. 2018. 30 FRANKE GROUP SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2019 SOCIAL XXX RESPONSIBILITY 31 FRANKE GROUP SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2019 SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY WORKFORCE DIVERSITY: FEMALE EMPLOYEES COMPARED TO THE PRIOR YEAR IN AVERAGE FULL TIME EQUIVALENTS 2019 % OF 2019 TOTAL 2018 DIFF. 2019/2018 NUMBER OF WOMEN 2019 % OF 2019 TOTAL 2018 % OF 2018 TOTAL Europe 5717 61% 5729 –0,2% Management Board 1 9% 1 9% Thereof Switzerland 1171 13% 1057 10,8% Management Level 1 (reporting 18 17% 12 12% Americas 1503 16% 1522 –1,2% directly to Management Board) Asia/Oceania 1630 17% 1574 3,6% Management Level 2 (reporting 82 22% 74 21% Africa/Middle East 512 5% 537 –4,7% directly to Management Level 1) Total 9362 100% 9362 0,0% Total employees* 2109 25% 2068 26% * The shares are based on the list of employees. In the event of missing gender data, we extrapolated this information based on Full-time employees 8326 89% 8368 –0,5% existing gender data. Part-time employees 834 9% 801 4,1% Apprentices 202 2% 193 4,7% Total 9362 100% 9362 0,0% prohibits discrimination based on gender, age, skin Senior Leadership and HR at Group/division level as color, nationality, ethnic origin, religion, disability or well as managers at all levels are responsible for the other characteristics of a person (see Franke Code continuous optimization of working conditions within FULL-TIME EMPLOYEES BY REGION of Conduct, p. 43). Within the framework of the the engagement process. Across all levels of the orgainternal talent promotion program (One Franke Talent nization, team workshops have been set up, in order to IN AVERAGE FULL TIME EQUIVALENTS 2019 2018 DIFR 2019/2018 Program), the proportion of female talent in 2019 was come up with ways to improve employee engagement. 36 percent. When executive positions are filled with Europe 5001 5043 –0,8% the support of external partners (executive search), In 2017, 89 percent of all teams drew up an action plan Thereof Switzerland 1033 937 10,2% Franke demands a focus on diversity when identifyand worked continuously on implementing these meaAmericas 1382 1423 –2,9% ing potential candidates. sures through to the second survey in October 2018. To Asia/Oceania 1461 1402 4,2% create the best possible conditions for even more engageAfrica/Middle East 482 500 –3,6% Employee Engagement Survey ment, the specific results of the second survey in 2018 Total 8326 8368 –0,5% The engagement of our workforce is central to our have been thoroughly analyzed. In 2019, 93 percent of the success. This is why a new Group-wide employee teams again produced measures, in a maximum of three engagement survey was conducted in 2016. Based on different areas. This has led to the definition of concrete the results of the 2016 survey, in 2017 we defined three targets and steps in order to improve the level of engageTEMPORARY EMPLOYEES BY REGION drivers for even more engagement at Group, country ment. At Group level, the same process was conducted. and team level: Leadership, Learning and DevelopIn the next survey in autumn 2021, we expect to see more IN AVERAGE FULL TIME EQUIVALENTS 2019 2018 DIFR 2019/2018 ment, as well as Recognition. The measures defined exciting insight into Franke's progress. within these drivers include improving communication, Europe 567 549 3,3% promoting learning opportunities, training managers and Franke Academy Thereof Switzerland 55 42 31,0% introducing a recognition program. Based on the results of the first employee engagement Americas 96 74 29,7% survey, the Franke Academy has continued to expand Asia/Oceania 141 141 0,0% The second employee engagement survey in 2018 since 2016. It includes all Franke’s training and further Africa/Middle East 29 37 –21,6% had a very high participation rate of 89 percent. In education measures. Central to this is our companyTotal 833 801 4,0% the survey, Franke achieved an overall rating of 56 wide strategy with the core objectives of outstanding percent, an improvement of four percentage points production, excellent marketing and sales, promotcompared to the 2016 survey. This result places us in ing our drive for innovation and outstanding project Female employees Management Level 2: All employees directly reportthe middle by external comparison (with 50 percent management. Specifically, we conduct programs and The percentage of female employees (25 %) has fallen ing to Management Level 1. of all companies surveyed). Nevertheless, we did training courses in the areas of leadership development, slightly compared to the prior year. In 2018 we aligned Barbara Borra (CEO Franke Kitchen Systems) is the achieve excellent results in several sub-topics of the technical sales and product skills as well as individual our diversity reporting with the Schillingreport. The female member of the Management Board. At Mansurvey. For example, 81 percent are willing to work work task-related competencies (language courses or Schillingreport collects data on the composition of agement Level 1, in 2019 there was an increase in the hard to exceed customer expectations. Compared to software training). The Franke Academy thus supports the management boards and supervisory boards of number of female employees from 12 percent to 17 the 2016 results, an improvement was achieved in all all its employees and managers in acquiring the necesSwitzerland’s 100 largest employers, and focuses percent, compared to the previous year. This is the focus areas. However, we are not satisfied with these sary tools and relevant knowledge. Franke employees among other things on the developments in the field result of five new roles which have now been filled by achievements and aim to continuously improve our receive long-term support in achieving their personal of gender diversity. Through this alignment, since the women, and one promotion. There was also a slight inworking conditions, which ultimately determine the and professional goals through regular feedback, learn2018 report the following levels have been identified crease in the number of female employees at Manageengagement of our workers. ing programs and development opportunities. (see the table on page 33): ment Level 2. Across the workforce, the percentage is Management Board: All members of the Manageone percentage point lower than in the previous year. ment Board are included at this level. Management Level 1: All employees reporting Franke has set itself the task of promoting gender directly to a member of the Management Board. equality, diversity and equal opportunities, and 32 FRANKE GROUP SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2019 SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY 33 FRANKE GROUP SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2019 SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY tunity to retain and develop talented employees as LEADERSHIP DEVELOPMENT Identifying and developing our internal talents and potential candidates for key roles allows us to provide our an attractive employer. Investments in our people employees with career opportunities and increase the also support productivity and innovation potential. rate of internal promotions. For the Global Leadership Franke attaches great importance to the development Competency promotion programs team (GLT), we achieved a rate of 63 percent in 2019. Franke employs more than 9,000 people worldwide of its own managers. The two core elements for this are The regularly held One Franke Talent Program (OFTP) is Compared to the 71 percent in the previous year, there and has many opportunities to promote women at appropriate HR processes and targeted development designed to give talented and ambitious employees the has been a slight reduction in this respect. The constant different management levels. Compared to the prior programs. opportunity to develop their skills in a real project and effort to identify internal talents is a significant contribuyear, the proportion of female employees at Manto promote exchange among themselves and with senior tion to a growth-oriented culture. agement Level 1 and Management Level 2 increased HR processes for sustainable performance management. The third global OFTP was successfully in 2019. Franke continues to promote women in The processes of performance assessment and developcompleted in 2019. Since the program started, 74 people SDG reference management positions and provide equal opportument planning are actively supported by a central system. have completed it. With regard to SDG 4 Quality education and SDG nities. In addition, a number of Leadership DevelopMeasures and results can be systematically recorded as 5 Gender equality , Franke has positively impacted ment programs were conducted in 2019. The Franke part of the personal goals achievement (Management Since 2018, we have also been offering leadership the education of its employees through its education Academy is now also able to offer project manageIncentive Plan, MIP or SIP, Sales Incentive Plan) or the development programs worldwide that help managers and training programs. This gives Franke the opporment training. competency appraisal. In 2019, 1,156 MIPs and 2,306 to execute their role even better and thus increase their competency appraisals were recorded across all levels of contribution to success. In collaboration with an external the organization. partner and our own staff, these programs are implemented globally. Franke’s goal is to offer executives develOCCUPATIONAL HEALTH AND SAFETY The competency appraisal process introduced in 2015 is opment opportunities and to promote them. In 2019, 190 closely linked to the Franke values and promotes open workers took part in one of the 16 four-day leadership communication. The process has been extended to ever development programs. A further 110 workers completed Franke attaches great importance to occupational the mental, social and physical well-being of its more employees in recent years. Development goals are one of the eight two-day programs. health and safety. Franke’s Management Board aims employees through its Wellness Committee. The prodefined and specified together and their implementation to ensure that all production companies roll out and gram offers activities such as yoga, fitness challengis monitored. In the MIP, both financial and personal In addition, an initiative has been launched to promote certify a management system for occupational health es and a bowling team, and provides employees with goals are jointly defined, whose achievement defines the project management skills. A pilot training program was and safety (OHSAS 18001 and ISO 45001)2. By the information on a healthy diet. amount of the bonus payment. This model is mainly apintroduced in 2019, based on the newly defined Franke end of 2019, 28 of the 37 production companies were plied to employees with management, project or specialProject Management methodology. The global rollout is certified to OHSAS 18001 or ISO 45001. In 2019 the Together with its employees, Franke is also committed to ist functions (see also the table on page 34). planned for 2020. number of production companies certified to ISO the society as a whole. One example of this engagement 45001 standards rose to six, compared to one in the is presented at the end of this section (see page 37). In addition, an HR process for Talent Management and Moreover, the conception and development of a systemprevious year. Succession Planning (TMSP) was initiated in 2016 and atic “on-the-job development” approach was launched Accidents, injuries, deaths rolled out further in 2017. This involves systematically during the year. As the name of the project indicates, this Internal risk audits are carried out as part of meaWe minimize occupational health and safety risks assessing employees, identifying talents and discussing approach will enable the targeted, continuous developsures to protect the health, safety and well-being through safety training and occupational health and potential development opportunities such as participament of workers, while they are at work. The achievement of employees. In 2019 the successful collaboration safety certification. With measures such as the instaltion in the talent program (more information in the next of the self-defined targets will be assured in combination between the internal Audit team and sustainability lation of safety sensors on production machines, Franchapter). In 2019, 984 employees were assessed within with the systematic promotion of skills in the context of reporting continued. Among other things, a standardke aims to achieve an overall reduction in the number the TMSP framework. competency appraisals. ized process was set up in 2018 to report sustainof injuries in the coming years and to permanently ability risks so that they can be taken into account reduce the number of injuries. in audits if necessary. In 2019 this allowed the Audit team to investigate a number of sustainability issues, The Franke-wide lost day rate (LDR = lost days per TARGET AGREEMENTS (EMPLOYEES WITH MANAGEMENT INCENTIVE PLAN) on-site. 100 employees) was 23 in 2019, compared with 27 in 20183. Since 2018, only incidents that led to lost days IN % OF TOTAL WORKFORCE FEMALE 2019 MALE 2019 TOTAL 2019 On-the-job training, refresher courses for long-term have been included in the injury figures. The reason employees, guidance for new hires and an open comfor this is a harmonization of the definitions between Franke Management Board 0,01 0,12 0,13 munication culture form the basis for safe working. the different functions. One day lost is defined as a Management Level 1 (reporting directly to Health and safety at work is also ensured by adeplanned working day that cannot be performed due to Management Board) 0,19 1,04 1,23 quate protective equipment in the workplace. an accident on the prior day. Comparing the lost days Management Level 2 (reporting directly to For example, we offer our employees at our head between 2019 and 2018, a decline of 17 percent can Management Level 1) 0,69 2,45 3,14 office in Aarburg (Switzerland) the opportunity to be observed. It can be seen that the accidents figure Other employees with MIP* 2,90 6,85 9,75 contact the company’s social services department in has only fallen slightly, but on average there were fewTotal employees with target agreement 3,79 10,47 14,26 the event of social or professional issues. In addition, er serious accidents, and this in turn led to fewer lost the Fit4Franke campaign offers various possibilities days. As in the previous year, no fatal accidents were Employees without target agreement* 21,69 64,05% 85,74 to stay physically and mentally fit. Options include recorded in 2019. the all-year Hockey Events or the skiing day at the Total employees 25,49 74,51% 100,00 Aarburg site. Franke in Smyrna, USA, also promotes * The shares are based on the list of employees. In the event of missing gender data, we extrapolated this information based on existing gender data 2 The international migration from OHSAS 18001 to ISO 45001 was published in March 2018. Accordingly, for 2019 both the OHSAS 18001 and also the ISO 45001 certifications were taken into consideration, as this conversion will take time. 3 Regarding the reporting year 2019, the data for two legal entities had to be estimated due to missing information. This also applies to the absence rate. 34 FRANKE GROUP SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2019 SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY 35 FRANKE GROUP SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2019 SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY The Group-wide absence rate for 2018 could not be About half of the entire workforce is currently covfully recorded due to a change in reporting. For this reason, the absence rate of three percent for 2018 is ered by collective agreements such as collective labor agreements or collective bargaining agreements. LIGHTING UP THE LIVES OF CHILDREN IN an estimate, based on the data collected by the end of August 2018. The necessary data was again collected In Austria, France, Germany, Italy and Switzerland, over 90 percent of employees are bound by a collecSOUTHEAST ASIA for 2019, and the absence rate was 2.2 percent. This tive employment agreement or collective bargaining transition should be further improved in the 2020 agreements. There are no collective agreements for report, and the reliability of the indicator will thus be employees in the US and China, which represent increased. 19 percent of the total workforce. OCCUPATIONAL HEALTH AND SAFETY With its aid campaigns in schools, Frank Kitchen Systems Southeast Asia is 2019 2018* DIFFERENCE 2019/2018 creating sustainable value for underprivileged children. The first of these CSR events in the Philippines and Cambodia were successful. Lost days due to occupational accidents or 1921 2324 –17% work-related illnesses Lost days rate 23 27 –15% Absence rate** 2,2% 3,0% –28% Number of work-related accidents/illnesses resulting in lost days3 82 91 –10 % The idea came to Markus Ratfelder early in 2018. Fatal accidents 0 0 0% “The idea of launching an annual campaign for local Production facilities certified according to charitable causes together with my team at Franke OHSAS 18001 or ISO 45001 28/37 28/37 Kitchen Systems Southeast Asia (KS SEA) was one * Subsequent data correction for 2018 that I could not let go of , recalls the sales director. ** Absence rate extrapolated for 2018 based on data to the end of August 2018. Further information is given in the Annex (p. 57). A meaningful way of starting this kind of social The required figures were again collected for 2019. engagement quickly became apparent, after a discussion with the team: Ratfelder says, “We decided on a project that would support children in poorer regions of Southeast Asia, to make their time at school easier SDG reference Franke aims to introduce and certify (OHSAS 18001 and more pleasant”. Franke always aims to make the working conditions and ISO 45001) a management system for occupaof its employees as pleasant and safe as possible, in tional health and safety at all production companies. No sooner said than done. A suitable target for the accordance with SDG 3 Good health and well-being . By the end of 2019, 28 of 37 production companies first event was the Anapog Integrated School in the Safety and awareness-raising measures can prevent were certified to OHSAS 18001 or ISO 45001. Cebu region of the Philippines, where approximately accidents, reduce health risks and promote staff As in previous years, Franke also avoided any fatal 400 children aged between four and 15 are taught well-being. This can also increase employee productiviaccidents in 2019. in precarious conditions. Many of them have to walk ty and reduce healthcare costs. more than six kilometers each way, to get to school, and come from the poorest of circumstances. In autumn 2018, Franke KS SEA visited the school and 2019 – Continuing the work in Cambodia provided the children with new shoes, satchels, The enormously positive response to the first action in notebooks and stationery items like pens, rulers and the Philippines has motivated Franke KS SEA to embark scissors. The school kitchen was fitted with new sinks on a new project. In summer 2019, another aid event and taps, to improve cleanliness and efficiency. The was held at Aziza's Place, a learning and development Franke team prepared a celebratory dinner at the site, center catering for 50 underprivileged children in for all the children and their teachers. Phnom Penh (Cambodia). The children received useful equipment for the classrooms, kitchen equipment and Franke KS SEA was assisted in the campaign by a local sanitary installations. All this was with support from business partner, the Philippine construction chain Franke’s local partner, Econflo Systems. Once again, Wilcon Depot. “The company has already promised the gratitude shown was overwhelming for Ratfelder further expenditure for the school, and where possible and his team: “The children’s smiling faces and shining will offer many children the opportunity of apprenticeeyes were priceless”. Further actions are planned for ships, when they leave , Markus Ratfelder confirms. 2020 and future years. 36 FRANKE GROUP SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2019 SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY 37 FRANKE GROUP SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2019 SOCIAL XXX RESPONSIBILITY ECONOMICA L RESPONSIBILITY ECONOMICAL RESPONSIBILITY Essential topics and our contribution to Financial stability in terms of a strong capital base, and healthy profits form the sustainable development basis for the long-term existence and successful growth of a company. These factors are obviously also the pillars of Franke's approach to business. The ManPROFITABILITY SDG 8: Decent work and economic growth agement Board, the Board of Directors and the owner of Franke set themselves the task of creating the necessary conditions. BUSINESS INTEGRITY S  DG 16: Peace, justice and strong institutions Franke is part of a global value chain. For this reacentral factors in our success. Franke’s economic son, the performance and developments achieved do performance, market presence and indirect economic not only have a direct impact on the company. Our impacts are monitored strategically by the Board of DiHUMAN RIGHTS numerous suppliers and customers around the globe, rectors and the operating management of Franke – the SDG 8: Decent work and economic growth with some of whom we have been cooperating for Management Board. Compliance activities are directly a very long time, are also an important part of this monitored by Franke’s Management Board or the Audit network and thus also depend on its overall success. Committee. As part of its internal risk management, At Franke, adherence to high ethical standards in the Franke conducts permanent monitoring in order to conduct of our business is just as important as the identify business-relevant risks at an early stage. figures; we see integrity and compliance as being PROFITABILITY The market orientation and internal strategies and proKEY FIGURES cesses of Franke and its divisions are regularly reviewed and adjusted where necessary. The economic perforIN CHF M 2019 2018 DIFF. mance, changes to framework or market conditions and a number of other factors are all carefully considered. Net sales 2423,1 2 117,2 14,5 % To maintain profitability, we have implemented a timely Organic growth 3,7% 1,0 % review and long-term planning measures. EBIT 133,8 67,2 99,1% Investments 98,0 177,0 –44,6 % The necessary flexibility within management is gained by Employees average 9 362 9 362 0% monthly meetings to make sure that we are staying on track. In this regular process, monthly results are being achieved strong sales growth, with greater profitability. consolidated and reviewed on a divisional level to detect In 2019 it achieved consolidated net sales of CHF indications for a deviation from the annual targets and 2.42 billion in comparison with CHF 2.12 billion in the allow for the timely implementation of countermeasures. prior year, thereby increasing sales by 14.5 percent. This sales growth comprises an organic growth of In the medium to long term, we have an annual internal 3.7 percent (previous year 1.0 percent), a positive planning and budgeting process that takes into account acquisitions/divestment effect of 13.5 percent, and the following three years. In the reporting year, Franke a negative exchange rate effect of 2.7 percent. 40 FRANKE GROUP SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2019 ECONOMICAL RESPONSIBILITY 41 FRANKE GROUP SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2019 ECONOMICAL RESPONSIBILITY EBIT almost doubled, to CHF 133.8 million which is thanks to numerous operational improvements, the can claim positive effects on employment and economic growth. Expanding into new markets and acquiring HUMAN RIGHTS absence of value adjustments and restructuring meanew customers comes with a variety of challenges, but sures. This overall positive development is also reflectis always an opportunity to operate profitably in the ed in the improved EBIT margin of 5.5 percent (previous long-term and to strengthen the company’s market Code of Conduct started towards the end of 2019, this figure is lower than year 3.2 percent). position. The protection of human rights has a high priority at in comparison to the previous year (78 percent). In 2019, Franke and is a requirement in the entire value-added one face-to-face compliance training session (including SDG reference In 2019, the adjusted EBIT margin fell to 5.5 percent chain to guarantee the license to operate. With its bindhuman rights) was held (compared with two in the prior With regard to SDG 8 Decent work and economic (3.2 percent year on year). Franke employed 9,362 ing Code of Conduct, Franke is committed to respecting year). The Code of Conduct sets our standard for comgrowth , Franke, being a long-established business, people worldwide (full-time equivalents). and complying with all applicable laws and regulations, pliance and human rights issues. All Franke employees and to supporting international human rights as well have access to the code, which is available for download as basic labor regulations such as the ILO Declaration on the Franke intranet, in 13 languages. The Code of Conon Fundamental Principles and Rights at Work. The duct was presented to all employees worldwide to ensure BUSINESS INTEGRITY Code also implies basic labor law provisions that do not its global proliferation. tolerate child labor or forced labor. An additional Franke supplier code, which was updated in January 2020, also Cases of discrimination All employees are obliged to follow the highest ethical Analysis of business units due to corruption risks requires that all suppliers and their respective supply The Franke Code of Conduct prohibits discrimination on standards of professional and personal conduct in In 2019, 13 audits were carried out by Internal Audit chains comply with labor practices, environmental the basis of gender, age, skin color, nationality, ethnicity, their dealings with customers, colleagues, business (compared with 15 in the prior year). These are based on protection and business integrity requirements. The religion, disability or other legally protected characterispartners, competitors, regulators and the communia risk-oriented audit approach and include, among other supplier code requires all suppliers and their sub-supplitics of a person. However, due to safety regulations, certies in which Franke operates. The new Code of things, compliance risks. ers to refrain from forced, bonded, prisoner, military or tain work tasks may be restricted to specific individuals. Conduct contains 15 clearly structured ethical princicompulsory labor and from any form of human traffickFor example, different reasonable load weights for lifting ples, which are also reflected in the corresponding Anti-corruption policy training ing. Compliance with the supplier code is assured as and carrying may apply to men and women. e-learning program. More details about the revised February 2017 saw the rollout of three e-learning modules it forms part of our supplier contracts. Audits are also Code of Conduct, which came into force on January 1, on the Code of Conduct and two policies (bribery and conducted to address these aspects, and to further Guarantee of freedom of association and the right to 2019, can be found at the end of this section (see antitrust law), which are mandatory and must be repeatverify and minimize the risk of human rights violations in collective bargaining page 43). ed periodically. The first module is addressed to 5,400 our supply chain. In its Code of Conduct, Franke undertakes to respect employees and must also be completed by new hires. the rights of its employees to freedom of association Compliance or rule-compliant conduct is indispensThe other two modules cover bribery and antitrust law. Corporate Compliance and Human Resources are and collective bargaining within the limits of local law. able for sustainable corporate success. Incorrect All modules were reviewed and relaunched in Q2/2019. responsible for raising awareness and for the internal The supplier code also requires that all suppliers and conduct leads to reputational damage, fines and By the reporting date of December 31, 2019, 68 percent monitoring of human rights (in areas such as discrimtheir respective supply chains respect the right of lost orders. We are therefore strengthening our of a total number of workers of 862 had already comination, equal opportunities and diversity, freedom of employees to freely associate and negotiate collectively, employees’ understanding of legal compliance, pleted the module on corruption. For 866 employees the association and the right to collective bargaining) at all without restriction or consequence. particularly with regard to corruption, antitrust law, figure was 65 percent for the program on antitrust law. Franke sites. The purchasing functions integrate conproduct requirements, third-party industrial propertinuous requirements that human rights and basic labor SDG reference ty rights, data protection and trade restrictions. In All Franke employees worldwide have access to the standards must be respected in the supply chain. Franke contributes to SDG 8 Decent work and eco2016, Franke introduced a compliance management Code of Conduct, which is available in 13 languages. nomic growth through the Code of Conduct and the system with the pillars of prevention, detection and Since 2016, we have also renewed the communications Through audits, certifications and training, Franke supplier code, among other things. The protection of control. In 2017, all employees were trained online about the SpeakUp@Franke integrity line, to raise emmakes a significant contribution to the protection of human rights and the fight against discrimination along for the first time on the subject of compliance. The ployee awareness, in particular through periodic articles human rights at production sites and in the supply chain. the value-added chain are prerequisites for Franke’s online training was upgraded in 2019. Compliance in the One Franke employee magazine This ensures that workers’ rights are respected and that long-term success. Franke creates jobs with well-dewith laws and regulations is also promoted by Marchild labor is ruled out. signed conditions for employees of all sexes, genders, cel Enz, General Counsel. Since January 1, 2020, he SDG reference ages, skin colors, nationalities and skill levels, suphas been the head of the Legal & Group Compliance With regard to SDG 16 Peace, justice and strong Employee training porting the economic development of the countries in department, and is based in Switzerland. The cominstitutions , Franke is actively committed to avoiding All employees with an email address were able to comwhich Franke is present. pliance processes at the individual sites are carried incidents of non-compliance through transparenplete the online training courses on the Code of Conduct out by the Internal Audit department. In addition, cy along the value chain, and training. Franke sees (including human rights) launched in February 2017. In Franke is committed to driving its strategy and fully the SpeakUp@Franke Integrity Line, launched in compliant behavior as a necessary prerequisite for 2019, online training sessions were held on the Code of support human rights, ensuring that workers’ rights are 2013, can be used confidentially and anonymously sustainable success. Conduct (including human rights). As of December 31, respected and that child labor can be ruled out. by all employees with integrity concerns. Corrective 2019, 68 percent of all eligible employees had successfulThe completion rate for online Code of Conduct trainmeasures are taken in the event of misconduct. The To achieve the goal of keeping non-compliance incidents ly completed the training. As the new training cycle only ing at the end of 2019 was 68 percent. Integrity Line is available in 26 languages and makes low, 13 internal audits were conducted in 2019 (15 interan important contribution to maintaining high comnal audits in 2018). Franke thus makes a contribution to pliance standards. the promotion of a peaceful and inclusive society. 42 FRANKE GROUP SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2019 ECONOMICAL RESPONSIBILITY 43 FRANKE GROUP SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2019 ECONOMICAL RESPONSIBILITY A CULTURE OF STRICT COMPLIANCE Franke makes great efforts to make sure that the Group-wide Code of Conduct is known to all its workers across the globe. The compliance with the Code also brings advantages in economic terms, thanks to greater customer confidence. The Code was revised as of January 1, 2019. Marcel Enz, General Counsel at Franke, who is also responsible for Legal & Compliance, gets straight to the point: “Our compliance culture first of all lightens the load for workers, and it also gives them a clear set of values with defined safeguards”. With its 2013 Code of Conduct, Franke set out its commitment to observing and complying with the local laws and regulations applicable to its international subsidiaries, and also the laws that apply in other countries in which the Group does business, and it is also committed to observing international human rights. Part of the Code of Conduct is about respecting the basic principles and requirements of international labor organizations, with regard to workers’ rights. “The Franke supplier code also requires that all suppliers and their respective supply chains comply with labor practices, environmental protection and business integrity requirements , added Marcel Enz. It is a comprehensive bundle of rules, conditions and requirements with which Franke obligates itself to observe explains, “The program incorporates more extensive, a sustainable compliance culture. The existing Code, updated training on anti-trust law, as well as a specific which was adopted in 2013, was “reviewed and extended , component on the prevention of corruption, for manageeffective from January 1, 2019, Marcel Enz confirms. The ment personnel”. new 2019 Code of Conduct brings together all the company’s values, in 15 ethical principles. “The revised Code This will make the work of Franke employees all over the also embraces new issues concerning trade restrictions, globe easier, and will also indirectly benefit their personal product safety and quality, and data protection”. well-being. According to Marcel Enz, a company can only operate successfully over the long term and guarantee Strengthening the One Franke culture quality jobs if it conforms to the regulations. “InapproTo ensure the smooth, sustainable dissemination of the priate behavior, on the other hand, leads to penalties, core messages of an effective compliance culture among damage to image, and the loss of business”. Finally, a the 9,000 global employees of the Franke Group, there strong compliance culture also encourages workers to is a comprehensive e-learning program every two years. identify with their employer, Franke. “This is a central pillar The latest wave of training on the revised Code of Conduct of our motivational One Franke culture, and it should stay was launched on September 1, 2019. As Marcel Enz that way”. 44 FRANKE GROUP SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2019 ECONOMICAL RESPONSIBILITY PRODUCT RESPONSIBILITY PRODUCT RESPONSIBILITY Essential topics and our contribution to sustainable development Our business is based on selling products and services. It goes without saying that we will continue to strive to improve the quality of our offer. Our customers deserve genuine added value. We devote all our efforts to doing this. PRODUCT RELIABILITY AND LONGEVITY SDG 12: Responsible consumption and production PRODUCT SAFETY SDG 3: Good health and well-being It is important to us to be perceived as a quality supplier QUALITY MANAGEMENT SYSTEMS in the market. This can be seen from the reliability and 2019 2018 longevity of our products. These product characteristics PRODUCT INNOVATION guarantee not only functional value, but also the careSDG 9: Industry, innovation and ful handling of finite resources. This is fully in line with Production sites with certified quality infrastructure sustainability. To maintain our leading market position in management systems (ISO 9001) 34/37 34/37 the future, we constantly make adjustments to innovations and meticulously ensure that the highest quality and safety standards are maintained in all processes. The Our quality management systems help to ensure comlatter are the basic prerequisites for the safe use of our pliance with mandatory technical and other standards. products. The key effects and consequences of Franke’s They also result in a continuous improvement process. high regard for product responsibility are experienced The surveying and ensuring of customer satisfaction directly by the customer, i.e. in the usage phase. Techniare part of quality management and follow clearly decal requirements for product safety, but also innovation, fined procedures. While some companies in the Group reliability and longevity have an indirect effect on the upconduct customer questionnaires independently, others stream stages. At Franke, product responsibility is located rely on standardized third-party surveys. Routine plans in various departments: Product Development, Quality, are developed to improve performance in the areas that Marketing, Risk Management and Legal. At the end of perform weakest in the surveys. 2019, 34 of 37 production sites had implemented a certified quality management system according to ISO 9001. PRODUCT RELIABILITY AND LONGEVITY We want our products to be reliable and durable. On the technical reliability of our products. Since 2016, there one hand, we guarantee our customers’ high expectahas also been a regular exchange between production tions of quality, and on the other hand, this approach and quality managers on a global level in order to stanhelps to ensure that resources are used more efficientdardize processes and learn from each other’s experily. Our products are in high-end market segments. That ences. Products that do not pass our internal tests are is why we have implemented a wide range of quality assubjected to a revision process or, in the case of major surance measures in product development and producfaults, are dismantled in order to recycle the raw mation. Among other things, we carry out failure mode and terials wherever possible. The systematic collection of effects analyses (FMEA) to avoid faults and increase the scrap rates also enables us to monitor process quality. 48 FRANKE GROUP SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2019 XXX PRODUCT RESPONSIBILITY 49 FRANKE GROUP SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2019 PRODUCT RESPONSIBILITY The reliability and durability of our products is evident of our five divisions, which from 2019 only considered Franke relies on certified quality management systems from their long years of use. Many of our products warranty calls from the first year of use instead of the at its production facilities and pursues the goal of ensurhave been in use for over two decades. To enable first two. ing a high standard of health and safety for its products. us to track product performance outside the factory gates as well, the “Faulty Products Indicator” was surThe key figures provide us with better insights into the veyed for the first time in 2017. It records the number effective service life of our products. From this, we of faulty products. This is measured by the number of derive appropriate further development measures for PRODUCT INNOVATION customer complaints within the warranty period. our products and production processes. For 2018, we decided to track this KPI at division level Franke considers innovation to be one of the most cance of this indicator should not be overestimated, as rather than company level, in order to improve data SDG reference important prerequisites for future success, and also as the activities of Franke do not correspond to a uniform quality. In collaboration with the quality managers With regard to SDG 12 Responsible consumption and an authoritative lever for sustainability. This will suppicture and some companies make exclusively customof our five divisions, we defined a new process to production , Franke has a positive influence on the port more environmentally friendly products that are er-specific products. This contributes to an increase in measure both the number of faulty products across sustainable consumption of its customers through its energy-efficient and water-saving, among other things. the indicator value, whereas factors such as the limited the group, and also the service call rate (the percentefficiency measures and the development of new busiOur standardized innovation process helps us to quickly influence of customer demand can lead to a reduction. age of faulty products compared to the total number ness models. By developing high-quality, reliable and, transform new ideas into innovation projects and proof products sold). This approach is most effective, as in particular, durable products, we can also meet the mote them accordingly. In 2019 progress could be seen across all four areas the divisional quality managers have the necessary needs of environmentally conscious customers. Environmental, Social, Economical and Product Responknowledge of the markets and products concerned, Process or product innovation is also a core element sibility. The continued improvement in data quality is so that they can give accurate estimates. Markets or Franke has set itself the goal of reducing the energy of our business success and sustainable performance. particularly pleasing. We will continue to work on this in product groups were disregarded if not enough data and water consumption of its end customers by using In particular, we promote increased efficiency to save the future in order to obtain an authoritative database, was available. Based on these estimates there was a smart technologies and products. Furthermore, quality costs and minimize the consumption of resources. and thus a reliable basis for future decisions. We intend Group-wide service call rate of 1.69 percent for 2019, assurance enabled Franke to achieve a service call rate Robotization and LEAN management are central topics to continue and intensify our efforts to promote sustainwhich is a little lower than in the previous year of 1.69 percent. We promote sustainable consumpof our innovation activities. ability within Franke in 2020. (2.14 percent). This is primarily attributable to the tion through our durable, high-quality products, which slight change in the data collection system within one inspire our customers. Our drive for innovation bore fruit last year, in the form SDG reference of numerous awards won by Franke Kitchen Systems, With regard to SDG 9 Industry, innovation and infraFaber Hoods & Cooking Systems, Foodservice Systems structure , Franke makes a positive contribution to and Franke Water Systems. These include recognitions innovation by bringing consumption-efficient products PRODUCT SAFETY such as the Golden Award from the LifeCare Initiative, to market. By investing in research and innovation, prizes in three categories of the European Product DeFranke has the opportunity to win new customers and sign Award, Best Supplier of the Year Award, the Iconic promote the adaptation of environmentally friendly Almost all our products are either related to the prepaWe adhere to the high health and safety standards of our Award and four different commendations from the 2019 technologies. ration of food or the use of water. They must therefore products. In line with the precautionary principle, we will Plus X awards. comply with a large number of technical and food safety review our new developments and product adaptations for Franke has set itself the target of continuously supregulations. Franke follows the precautionary principle health and safety impacts in the future. Franke intends to To assess product innovation, we used the net trading porting product innovation. In 2019, Franke generated as part of quality management to ensure that health and further strengthen the centralization of its quality managerevenue of products launched over the past three years 28 percent of its sales with products launched over the safety requirements are met by all products. ment. To this end, a new role for Group-wide quality manas the basis. Compared to 2018, this figure has fallen past three years. Franke is thus contributing to innovaagement was created in 2019. This is particularly important slightly from 33 to 28 percent 4. However, the signifition in its markets. Our innovative products also promote hygienic behavto ensure the transfer of knowledge across the Group and iors and thus the health of our consumers, for example to collect and evaluate data for controlling in this area in an through the installation of contactless fittings. One even more methodical way. The Head of Quality of Franke example of this is the VITAL tap, which improves water Group is responsible for coordinating the company-wide quality. More information about this product can be quality assurance and improvement activities. One example found at the end of the Product responsibility section. of the projects undertaken in 2019 relates to a process which assures that our suppliers make regular reports on As with reliability and longevity, we rely on certified qualthe quality of their products. ity management systems in our production facilities. Full data on incidents related to health and safety impacts SDG reference for the whole group is not yet available. During the 2019 Through the high quality and high safety requirements reporting period, our Franke Kitchen Systems division of our products, we make an important contribution to had to report two safety-related customer incidents the reduction and avoidance of accidents. This comthat resulted in sanctions, warnings or product recalls. mitment has a positive effect on consumer health, as In 21 customer incidents, voluntary internal rules were defined in SDG 3 Good health and well-being . High violated. Countermeasures were taken for the products security requirements are an essential building block for concerned. Franke’s reputation. 4 Regarding the reporting year 2019, the data for two legal entities had to be estimated due to missing information. 50 FRANKE GROUP SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2019 PRODUCT RESPONSIBILITY 51 FRANKE GROUP SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2019 PRODUCT RESPONSIBILITY CLEANER WATER – LESS PLASTIC In tandem with the launch of the new VITAL Capsule filter tap system, Franke UK has helped to reduce plastic waste through its “Refill not Landfill” campaign, which was launched for the trade and also the retail market. The patented Clear Water System filter technology from Franke Kitchen Systems cleanses ordinary tap water of more than 99 percent of bacteria, viruses, rust, microplastic and other deposits. The Swiss-developed technology helps to make drinking water healthier for consumers. To introduce the new VITAL Capsule filter tap system, Franke UK Ltd, based in Manchester in northern England, launched a specific sustainability campaign last year, which was successfully completed. Named “Refill not Landfill , the campaign promotes the new filter system which is designed to make a sustainable contribution to reducing plastic waste. In conjunction with this, Franke UK has produced a series of practical reusable water bottles; the bottles are available through the dealer network and can also be shipped directly to the end consumer. The easy-to-open, washable bottles should help to reduce the huge mountain of waste created every year from the use of disposable plastic able results within a comparatively short time. “We bottles. have reached more than a quarter of a million people, making them aware of the plastic waste issue”. No fewFranke UK conducted a study across the UK’s kitchen er than 187 Franke retailers have signed up to support and bathroom industry, and found that 70 percent of all the campaign. sites had no recycling facilities for plastic waste. The survey also found that more than half of all workers in The environment is already benefiting. Not only have all the industry bought at least one plastic bottle every Franke UK’s workers received the new non-disposable week, and threw them in the ordinary bin due to lack of bottles; they have also been received by hundreds of recycling facilities. customers who can register for them online. There is more to come. Joanne Rawstron reports: “As a result of “For us, the launch of the VITAL Capsule filter tap was the Refill not Landfill campaign, we expect that 170,000 the ideal time to raise awareness of this issue and to fewer disposable bottles will be bought each year in the make an active contribution , explains Joanne Rawstron, UK”. Sales & Marketing Director at Franke UK in Manchester. With the targeted involvement of staff, dealers and end consumers, not to mention suppliers and the media, the Refill not Landfill campaign has achieved respect52 FRANKE GROUP SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2019 PRODUCT RESPONSIBILITY ANN EX REPORTING PARAMETERS REPORTING PARAMETERS Reporting period the company is no longer included in our calculations This report covers the 2019 financial year: January 1, and has followed a new reporting line to the Artemis GRI CONTENT INDEX to December 31, 2019. Information from prior years Group since January 2016. Since 2017, Franke Induswas included where necessary to give the reader a trie AG (a manufacturer of hot gas components for CONTACT complete picture of Franke’s sustainability approach industrial gas turbines and aerospace) also reports and performance in this area. If the data does not directly to the Artemis Group. originate from 2019, this has been clearly indicated. There were also the following changes in connection Date of the most recent previous report with joint ventures, acquisitions, divestments or mergIn July 2019 Franke published its 2018 sustainability ers in the reporting period: At the end of June 2019, report. The reports from prior years can be found here: Franke acquired a majority stake in Dalla Corte S.R.L., a premium Italian coffee machine manufacturer. ▸ www.franke.com ▸ ▸ About us ▸ ▸ Sustainability Data collection methods and bases of data calcuReporting cycle lation Franke publishes a sustainability report every year. At Franke, non-financial data has been measured for The next report will be published by August 2021. many years. A consolidation of non-financial data according to the GRI indicators at Group level was Procedure for determining the report content carried out for the first time in 2011. The Core option of the GRI standard was followed, in defining the report content and priorities for Franke. The financial, personnel and environmental data (enOur sustainability report is based on a materiality analergy, greenhouse gas emissions, water, materials and ysis, to identify those aspects that are important to waste generation) for this report was taken from the our stakeholders and on which Franke has the greatest COGNOS system. Regarding the reporting year 2019, impact. The key stakeholders and their most important the personnel and environmental data and the share interests are described on page 14. of products launched over the past three years had to be estimated for two legal entities due to missing As in previous years, this sustainability report is based information in COGNOS. Data on occupational health on the materiality analysis, which was prepared in acand safety was collected using COGNOS. Certain cordance with the GRI standards. The previous topics personnel data was extracted from the HR tool, which were checked for completeness, and were then asnow covers approximately 90 percent of the worksessed by a group of internal experts in terms of their force. With regard to materials, the central purchasing relevance to Franke stakeholders and their significant figures have been used since 2017. As some materials economic, ecological and social impacts. In order to are still purchased locally, it is very difficult to enter take greater account of stakeholder involvement and reliable data at this time. However, we are working on the sustainability context, Franke plans to validate a solution to ensure that these figures will be transthe key issues and their limitations with regard to the parent again in the future. This would also allow us following sustainability reports. to make a clear distinction between renewable and non-renewable materials. For the 2019 reporting year, Reporting boundaries, joint ventures, subsidiaries, we decided to use COGNOS for the collection of data outsourced activities, etc. on renewable materials. For the 2019 report in particThis report covers Franke in its entirety. If only a part ular, it is still difficult to make statements about the of the company is meant (as an example or due to the collected data. The figures on the purchased quantidata situation), we clearly point out that. This report ties of semi-finished and finished products are being does not cover outsourced activities. Although Franke processed for the 2020 report. Beverage Systems is still legally part of Franke, 56 FRANKE GROUP SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2019 XXX ANNEX 57 FRANKE GROUP SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2019 ANNEX The environmental and occupational health and safety With regard to our data sources for the statements data for the 2019 financial year was reported by all the production, service and sales companies. The data on on the workforce made in the report, the following distinction must be made. When we speak of full-time GRI CONTENT INDEX water, wastewater and waste disposal were collected equivalents, the information is taken from our finanfrom the bills of the municipal water supply and other cial reporting system and, if a number of employees utilities. is mentioned, from the employee directory. For the calculation of the proportion of female employees The conversion factors for energy consumption come in the Social Responsibility section, the year-end from the fact sheet: CO2 emission factors of the situation was taken into account. As the Group profile Swiss greenhouse gas inventory from 2016 (Federal on p. 6 7 shows the situation at the time of Office for the Environment). Direct greenhouse gas publication, the Management Board data shows slight emissions from fossil fuels (heating oil, natural gas, differences between the Group profile and the “Social diesel and petrol; Scope 1 of the GHG Protocol) are Responsibility” section. GRI STANDARD DISCLOSURE PAGE OMISSION AND REMARK also based on the fact sheet of the Swiss Federal Office for the Environment (2016). The individual It is also important to mention the changed data basis GENERAL DISCLOSURE greenhouse gases emitted at Franke sites are CO2, for calculating the absence rate. The original KPI for CH4 and N2O, which have been converted into the absence rate was calculated on a rolling basis CO2 equivalents for this report, according to the up to August 2018, and then no longer. In 2019, the GRI 102: General Organizational profile Disclosures (2016) 102-1 Name of the organization 6 above-mentioned fact sheet. Greenhouse gas emisKPI was taken up again, and is now only calculated sions for electricity and district heating (Scope 2) at year-end, for the whole year. The figure for the 102-2 Activities, brands, products and services 6–7 were calculated on the basis of the emission factors absence rate thus shows the situation at the end of 102-3 Location of headquarters 7 reported by the Franke companies. December 2019. 102-4 Location of operations 7 102-5 Ownership and legal form 14 – 15 The environmental and occupational health and safeEffects of any restatements of information provid102-6 Markets served 6–7 ty data were determined in relation to each other by ed in earlier reports 102-7 Scale of the organization 6 – 7, 15 dividing the total values by net sales in Swiss francs. In the context of a more comprehensive audit, subse102-8 Information on employees and other workers 31 – 36 1 Many of the key figures in the Environment and quent data corrections were also made for 2018. In 102-9 Supply chain 11 Social Responsibility sections are heavily depenmost cases these are adjustments of inaccurate data. 102-10 Significant changes to the organization and its supply chain 57 – 58 dent on Franke’s economic performance. For this As a result, the 2018 key figures of this report differ 102-11 Precautionary principle or approach 13 – 14 reason, the key figures are listed relative to total net from those of the prior year. 102-12 External initiatives 14 revenues. 102-13 Membership of associations 14 GRI reference Strategy Furthermore, we do not consider the share of tempoThis report has been prepared in accordance with the rary employees in the total workforce to be significant GRI Standards: Core option. 102-14 Statement from senior decision-maker 4–5 at 8.6 percent, and therefore do not discuss in detail Ethics and integrity their precise activities. In addition, there are no signifiExternal assurance for the report cant seasonal fluctuations in the total workforce. No external confirmation was obtained for this report. 102-16 Values, principles, standards, and norms of behavior 13, 31 Governance 102-18 Governance structure 12 Stakeholder engagement 102-40 List of stakeholder groups 14 – 15 102-41 Collective bargaining agreements 36 102-42 Identifying and selecting stakeholders 14 – 15 102-43 Approach to stakeholder engagement 14 102-44 Key topics and concerns raised 14 Reporting practice 102-45 Entities included in the consolidated financial statements 57 102-46 Defining report content and topic boundaries 57 102-47 List of material topics 14 102-48 Restatements of information 58 102-49 Changes in reporting 57 102-50 Reporting period 57 102-51 Date of most recent report 57 102-52 Reporting cycle 57 58 FRANKE GROUP SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2019 ANNEX 59 FRANKE GROUP SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2019 ANNEX GRI STANDARD DISCLOSURE PAGE OMISSION AND GRI STANDARD DISCLOSURE PAGE OMISSION AND REMARK REMARK GRI 102: General 102-53 Contact point for questions regarding the report 63 Profitability Disclosures (2016) 102-54 Claims of reporting in accordance with the GRI Standards 58 GRI 103: Management 103-1 Explanation of the material topic and its Boundary 41 – 42 102-55 GRI content index 59 – 62 Approach (2016) 103-2 The management approach and its components 41 – 42 102-56 External assurance 58 103-3 Evaluation of the management approach 41 – 42 Own Indicator Operating result (EBIT) 41 – 42 MATERIAL TOPICS Business integrity GRI 103: Management appro103-1 Explanation of the material topic and its Boundary 41 – 42 Energy efficiency in production ach (2016) 103-2 The management approach and its components 42 GRI 103: Management 103-1 Explanation of the material topic and its Boundary 19, 22 103-3 Evaluation of the management approach 42 Approach (2016) 103-2 The management approach and its components 19 – 22 Own indicators Number of internal audits 42 103-3 Evaluation of the management approach 20 – 22, 26 Number of employees trained regarding corruption 42 GRI 302: Energy (2016) 302-3 Energy intensity 20 – 21, 41 Number of employees trained regarding antitrust legislation 42 GRI 305: Emissions (2016) 305-4 GHG emissions intensity 21 – 22, 41, 58 Human rights Water, wastewater GRI 103: Management appro103-1 Explanation of the material topic and its Boundary 41, 43 GRI 103: Management 103-1 Explanation of the material topic and its Boundary 19, 22 – 23 ach (2016) 103-2 The management approach and its components 43 Approach (2016) 103-2 The management approach and its components 19 – 20, 22 – 23 103-3 Evaluation of the management approach 43 103-3 Evaluation of the management approach 22 – 23, 26 GRI 412: Human Rights 412-2 Employee training on human rights policies or procedures GRI 303: Water (2016) 303-1 Water withdrawal by source 22 2 Assessment 43 8 GRI 306: Effluents and 306-1 Water discharge by quality and destination Waste (2016) 22 3 Reliability and longevity GRI 103: Management 103-1 Explanation of the material topic and its Boundary 49 – 50 Material efficiency in production Approach (2016) 103-2 The management approach and its components 49 – 50 GRI 103: Management 103-1 Explanation of the material topic and its Boundary 19, 23, 25 103-3 Evaluation of the management approach 50 Approach (2016) 103-2 The management approach and its components 19 – 20, 23 – 25 Own Indicator Service Call Rate 50 103-3 Evaluation of the management approach 23 – 26 GRI 301: Materials (2016) 301-1 Materials used by weight or volume 23 – 25 4 Safety impacts of products GRI 306: Effluents and 306-2 Waste by type and disposal method GRI 103: Management 103-1 Explanation of the material topic and its Boundary 49 – 51 Waste (2016) 24 5 Approach (2016) 103-2 The management approach and its components 49 – 51 103-3 Evaluation of the management approach 49 – 51 Resource-efficient products (energy) GRI 416: Customer Health 416-2 Incidents of non-compliance concerning the health and GRI 103: Management 103-1 Explanation of the material topic and its Boundary 19, 25 – 26 and Safety (2016) safety impacts of products and services 50 9 Approach (2016) 103-2 The management approach and its components 19 – 20, 25 – 26 103-3 Evaluation of the management approach 25 – 26 Product innovation GRI 302: Energy (2016) 302-5 Reductions in energy requirements of products and services 25 – 26 6 GRI 103: Management 103-1 Explanation of the material topic and its Boundary 49, 51 Approach (2016) 103-2 The management approach and its components 49, 51 Leadership Development 103-3 Evaluation of the management approach 51 GRI 103: Management 103-1 Explanation of the material topic and its Boundary 31 – 35 Own Indicator Change in net sales of products not older than three years 51 Approach (2016) 103-2 The management approach and its components 31 – 35 103-3 Evaluation of the management approach 34 – 35 Exclusions and remarks: See page 62 GRI 404: Training and 404-3 Percentage of employees receiving regular performance 34 Education (2016) and career development reviews Occupational safety GRI 103: Management 103-1 Explanation of the material topic and its Boundary 31, 35 – 36 Approach (2016) 103-2 The management approach and its components 31, 35 – 36 103-3 Evaluation of the management approach 35 – 36 GRI 403: Occupational He403-2 Types of injury and rates of injury, occupational diseases, alth and Safety (2016) lost days, and absenteeism, and number of work-related fatalities according to region and gender 35 – 36 7 60 FRANKE GROUP SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2019 ANNEX 61 FRANKE GROUP SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2019 ANNEX Exclusions and remarks 1. Due to the current system landscape, some breakdowns 6. The data for assessing the reduction of the energy demand of our products is not yet available. We are working on establishCONTACT cannot yet be made. We are in the process of developing a ing a data collection process with the goal of reporting on this new system that will allow us to collect the missing data. in 2020. The missing data mainly concerns the variables sex and type of 7. Information on the injury rate and the breakdown by region is employment, which we are not yet able to identify in all areas. not yet available. We are working on establishing a data collecWe expect to be able to introduce and use this system in 2020. tion process with the goal of reporting on this in 2020 instead Accordingly, we expect to be able to make all the breakdowns of 2019 as originally planned due to missing capacity. Data on from 2020 onwards. Unfortunately, due to the coronavirus the occupational disease rate cannot be collected for reasons pandemic, it is possible that there will be a delay in the introof confidentiality (medical secrecy). For this reason, the duction of the new system. following will also not be reported in the future. The type of the 2. Data on the detailed breakdown by water source is not yet injuries and the breakdown by sex are also not available. Since available. We will collect it for the 2020 report. Franke wants to avoid injuries completely, regardless of type 3. The data for a breakdown by water quality is not yet available. or gender, the collection of this data has a low priority. For this If you have general questions about sustainability We are working on establishing a corresponding data collection reason, no survey is planned in the near future and therefore at Franke, please contact: process with the goal of reporting on this in 2021. no time horizon can be defined. 4. Includes the most important non-renewable materials that are 8. The topic of human rights is part of the e-learning module on used for manufacturing and packaging the products. Data on the code of conduct. Since this module covers many other topKirill Bourovoi both semi-finished and finished products is not yet included ics, it is not possible to reliably estimate the number of training Sustainability Manager Franke Group because of a delay in the process. We are working on estabhours. Group Head of Learning & Development lishing the data collection with the goal of reporting on this in 9. The documented cases relate to the Kitchen Systems division. 2020 instead of 2019. In the near future, it will be assessed whether it makes sense 5. The extent to which existing data on the two disposal methods to introduce this KPI in the other divisions as well. We will ▸ kirill.bourovoi@franke.com of landfill and incineration can be further broken down will be follow-up on the progress in the next report. clarified internally by the publication of the 2021 report. SDG-INDEX SDG CHAPTER PAGE 3 Social Responsibility, 8-9, 30, 36, 48, Product Responsibility 50-51 4 Social Responsibility 8-9, 30, 35 5 Social Responsibility 8-9, 30, 35 6 Environmental Responsibility 8-9, 18, 23 7 Environmental Responsibility 8-9, 18, 22 8 Economical Responsibility 8-9, 40, 42, 43 Acknowledgments 9 Product Responsibility 8-9, 48, 51 We wish to thank all participants who have supported us 12 Product Responsibility 8-9, 48, 50 in the improvement of data quality for their commitment 13 Environmental Responsibility 8-9, 18, 22, 26 and cooperation. 15 Environmental Responsibility 8-9, 18, 24 16 Economical Responsibility 8-9, 40, 42 Publisher Franke Holding AG, Franke-Strasse 2, 4663 Aarburg, Schweiz Editor BSD Consulting Swisscontent AG, Zürich Luca Niederhauser, Matthias Meier, Sunniva Bitschnau (Franke) Translation STAR7 S.p.A. Conception/realization Franke Image credits Franke 62 FRANKE GROUP SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2019 ANNEX 63 FRANKE GROUP SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2019 ANNEX Franke Holding AG Franke-Strasse 2 4663 Aarburg Schweiz www.franke.com
