DELIVERING YOUR POTENTIAL Sustainability report 2019 ELKEM SUSTAINABILITY AT A GLANCE ELKEM SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2019 Elkem – sustainability at a glance Total operating Number of Number of plants income: employees: around the worlds: NOK 22.7 billion 6,370 29 E C02 emissions reduced from 2.54 to 2.15 million tonnes NOx emissions reduced by 13% since 2015 Female participation rate in Elkem’s leadership training programmes S increased from 25% to 32% 30% female share of new hires 65% of Elkem's employees had an annual development discussion G Zero cases of anti-competitive practices identified Introducing a Speak up channel Launching code of conduct for Elkem's business partners 2 ELKEM SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2019 ELKEM SUSTAINABILITY AT A GLANCE Elkem at a glance Contents Elkem – sustainability at a glance...................... 2 Established in 1904, Elkem is one of the world's leading companies for CEO’s message........................................................ 4 environmentally responsible manufacturing Introduction.............................................................. 6 of metals and materials. Energy and environment.....................................14 Elkem is a fully integrated producer with Targets and KPIs.........................................................................................15 operations throughout the silicon value Energy: Consumption, recovery and efficiency...............................16 C02 emissions, trading schemes and other emissions to air.......17 chain from quartz to silicon and downstream Water and waste management..............................................................19 silicone specialities, as well as speciality Product stewardship, substances of concern and ferrosilicon alloys and carbon materials. conflict materials........................................................................................21 Attractive employer.............................................26 Elkem has 6,370 employees and consists Targets and KPIs........................................................................................26 of four business areas: Silicones, Silicon Common culture: Elkem Business System........................................ 27 Materials, Foundry Products and Carbon. Diversity and equality..............................................................................28 Headquartered in Oslo, the company's 29 Development and training......................................................................30 production sites and extensive network of Turnover........................................................................................................30 Collective bargaining, contractors, child and forced labour........31 sales offices and agents around the world ensure proximity to customers and access to Societal impact......................................................32 attractive end markets. Targets and KPIs........................................................................................32 Sustainability impact of Elkem’s products........................................33 Product stewardship in Elkem...............................................................34 Elkem was re-listed on the Oslo Stock Community engagement and dialogue.............................................35 Exchange in March 2018. Elkem's total Responsible sourcing and the supply chain.....................................37 operating income in 2019 amounted to EHS in the supply chain...........................................................................37 NOK 22,668 million, with an EBITDA of Human rights...............................................................................................38 NOK 2,656 million. Governance and compliance............................ 44 Targets and KPIs........................................................................................45 Corporate governance and compliance............................................ 46 Speak up channel......................................................................................47 Training.........................................................................................................47 Anti-competitive practices, anti-bribery and corruption.............47 Working with business partners...........................................................48 GRI Index 2019.......................................................52 3 MESSAGE FROM THE CEO ELKEM SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2019 ELKEM SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2019 MESSAGE FROM THE CEO Elkem Sustainability Report 2019 Message from the CEO New technology has contributed to reducing Elkem's NOx emissions by 13% since 2015. Sustainability remains a fundamental pillar as our improvement efforts continues with full force in 2020. Elkem is among the world’s most environmentally friendly manIn addition to efforts to make our production processes more ufacturers of silicon-based materials. environmentally friendly and sustainable, Elkem’s ferrosilicon, silAt the same time, Elkem, like the rest of the process industry, icon, carbon and silicones products are important in the develemits climate gasses through the production processes because opment of the solar and wind industry and are also significant there are no viable technological alternatives today. components within the battery industry. Our products are a very important part of the solution for the Specialty silicones products contribute to prolonging the life low carbon society that is necessary to combat climate change of thousands of other products, thereby reducing waste and the at the same time as we understand that we need for replacements. have some sustainability challenges that we must manage. These are essential examples of Elkem’s work to promote sustainable industrialisaSetting ambitious, but achievable sustaintion, foster innovation and combat climate A zero-harm workplace ability goals is important to Elkem, and we change. are taking initiatives to improve every year. protecting labour rights Recognising Elkem’s efforts and position By applying new technology developed will continue to be our as part of the solution, the Norwegian Min­ by Elkem’s experts at several of our furnaces, istry of Trade, Industry and Fisheries asked organisation’s main focus. NOx emissions have been reduced by 13% Elkem in 2018 to chair Process21, a threesince 2015. In 2020, two additional furnace year pro­ject that will give the Norwegian upgrades will be completed, targeting a reduction of Elkem’s government strategic advice on how the process industry can NOx emissions by an additional 10 percentage points. reach the goal of increased value creation with zero emissions For reducing fossil CO2 emissions Elkem continues to in 2050. Process21 will submit its recommendations in Decemincrease the amount of bio-carbon used as a reductant in its ber 2020. silicon and ferrosilicon production and has for the first time in Elkem’s history run a furnace close to 100 percent on sustainLast and not least, health and safety continue to be one of able biocarbon in Paraguay. Elkem’s core pillars. Simultaneously, electrical energy input for most of our fur­ Decent working conditions and healthy and productive naces is produced with renewable hydro power. employees are key in order to promote economic development Later this year the new energy recovery plant at Elkem Salten and growth. will allow us to recover enough heat energy from furnace off-gas Without safety, we can forget about all the rest. A zero-harm to generate 275 GWh per year of new electricity from heat that workplace protecting labour rights will continue to be our organwas previously wasted, equal to 15,000 Norwegian household´s isation’s main focus. Fundamentally we have a good status, but electricity consumption. we must always continue in our efforts to improve further. This increases resource-use efficiency and secures greater adoption of clean and environmentally friendly energy. Globally all plants are continuously working to reduce waste and dust emissions. At the Yongdeng plant in China we continue to invest sub­ stantially in dust reduction, and at the group level Elkem targets Michael Koenig a 30% reduction in dust by 2025. CEO, Elkem ASA 5 INTRODUCTION ELKEM SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2019 Introduction: Sustainability in Elkem 2019 The UN's Sustainable Development Goals and the Paris Agreement have set a new course. Stakeholders’ expectations to non-financial reporting continue to increase as ESG considerations become an integrated part of financial decision making. The financial sector is, together with other stakeholders, putElkem’s sustainability agenda is divided into four areas based ting more emphasis on the financial risks related to insufficient on dialogue with internal and external stakeholders. These are sustainability initiatives. Non-financial reporting is gaining more energy and environment, societal impact, attractive employer, traction in investment analysis, and ESG (Environmental, Social and compliance and governance. and Governance) reporting has clearly become more important In 2017, a set of sustainability targets were developed to allow in financial decision making. stakeholders to monitor progress through annual reporting. The Elkem’s mission is to contribute to a sustainable future by protargets are linked to the four focus areas that are considered chalviding advanced silicon, silicones and carbon solutions, adding lenges and opportunities for Elkem. We were therefore pleased value to stakeholders globally. to receive a gold rating by the business sustainability rating comAdding value to stakeholders means that Elkem is commitpany EcoVadis for the first time in 2019. ted to securing sustainable economic growth with a responsiAs an international company with a global presence, Elkem ble environmental footprint. Simultanously, Elkem strives to be welcomes the increased focus on sustainability and supports a positive and accountable social actor within the company’s transparency in these issues. Elkem will continue to increase sphere of responsibility. efforts in order to understand and improve the organisations sustainability footprint. 6 ELKEM SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2019 INTRODUCTION SUSTAINABLE SOLUTIONS FOR GLOBAL CHALLENGES technol­ogy, in addition to developing new technology that will The UN Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs) and goal of the make production carbon neutral. Paris Agreement to limit global waming to well below 2 degrees For more information, please visit our chapter on energy and Celsius have given the world a clear direction for the coming environment on page 62. ten years. Regulatory requirements, market demands, and reputational MATERIALITY ASSESSMENT risks drive the demand for sustainable products with the lowCorporate social responsibility includes a wide range of issues est possible environmental footprint in order to reach the global for a global and complex group like Elkem. Over the past years, targets. Elkem has expanded its operations from solely being a producer For Elkem, the changing landscape is an opportunity as well of silicon and ferrosilicon. Today Elkem’s value chain includes silas a challenge. The opportunity is found in products that are icones, thus creating a vertically inte­grated value chain covering critical input factors to a vast number of applications that are all steps of the process from quartz mining to a wide range of necessary to meet the increased demands for renewable energy, advanced silicon and silicone-based speciality products. energy storage, mobility solutions, infrastructure improvements, Following the changes, Elkem has worked to identify topics digitalisa­tion and health care. that may be considered material for the whole Elkem value chain. Ferro-alloys, silicon and silicones present a clear opportunity The analysis identifies the economic, social, governance and envifor Elkem and the demand is expected to increase in parallel ronmental impact of Elkem’s operations and the consequences to the expected demand growth for low-carbon technologies. this has on our stakeholder’s assessment of us. The challenges are found in current technologies for producIn 2018, Elkem surveyed key internal and external stakeing the same critical raw materials that are necessary to build holders that are either impacted by the company’s operations, wind turbines, solar panels, batteries, electric vehicles and other or whom, in different ways, have an impact on the company. environmentally friendly applications. The stakeholder engagement process improved the analysis of The current production technology is both energy intensive materiality and was done to ensure compliance with the Global and emits CO2. Elkem is committed to reducing energy consumpReporting Initiative (GRI). Emphasis in 2019 has been on reporttion and C02 emissions as far as technically feasible with current ing progress on the topics identified as material in 2018. MATERIAL TOPICS RELATED TO SUSTAINABILITY IN ELKEM: Compliance Occupational health and safety GHG Emissions Energy efficiency 1. priority Supply chain Stakeholder dialogue/relations Anti-corruption Environmental management Climate change and risk adaption Diversity and equality Water management Importance: External stakeholders Waste management Resources/materials sourcing and use Sustainable product innovation Spills Soil pollution 2. priority Chemicals Biodiversity Risk management Human rights Circular economy/product life cycle Emergency/crisis preparedness Corporate governance Contributions to local communities Employee training and development Noise Supply chain: Ethics and governance Anti-competitive behaviour Supply chain: Labour rights and conditions 3. priority Security and data privacy Indigenous rights Attractive workplace Customer health and safety Contributions to charities/NGOs Job creation and retention Public policy and lobbying Labour rights and condtitions 3. priority 2. priority 1. priority Importance: Internal 7 INTRODUCTION ELKEM SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2019 In addition to the focus areas identified in the analysis in 2018, to close scrutiny from investors. A key focus in the 2019 reportseveral areas have been added based on expectations identified ing has therefore also been to increasingly improve the group's as a result of dialogue with stakeholders with regards to ESG responses to these expectations: reporting. As a listed company since March 2018 Elkem is subject Energy and Attractive Societal Governance and environment employer impact Compliance Prioritised material topics, based Energy efficiency Occupational health Compliance Compliance on materiality assessment 2018 Water management and safety Occupational health Anti-corruption Waste management Diversity and equality and safety Anti-corruption Additional external (ESG) Water stress Gender equality Product stewardship Challenges in mining expectations in 2019 Chemical safety and restoration Climate change risk and mitigation STAKEHOLDER ENGAGEMENT local communities and society as a whole, as well as buildElkem’s operations have significant impact on societies ing long term, mutual trust. through the value chain. Many of Elkem’s plants are corIn 2019, we continued to develop our stakeholder managenerstone employers and important contributors in local ment tool to ensure that each location has a structured way communities, securing safe jobs and infrastructure, paying of securing stakeholder engagement. Implementation of the taxes and supporting local community development. As a tool is planned for 2020. For more information about our stakelong-term partner, Elkem values open dialogue with all of its holder dialogue and community work, please visit the societal stakeholders including local communities, governments and impact chapter on page 80. other partners such as research institutions, customers and In the table you find Elkem’s key stakeholders, typical dia­ suppliers. Respect is one of Elkem's core values .Our stakelogue and what issues the stakeholders find most important, holder dialogue is based on respect for individuals, society according to our dialogue with them. The table is based on the and the environment. Maintaining contact with the various input given in our annual internal stakeholder survey, sent to our stakeholders helps Elkem understand the role we play in plant and line managers. 8 ELKEM SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2019 INTRODUCTION Type of dialogue Issues of interest Employees • Regular meetings • Proper and safe working environment • Email/phone dialogue • Personal and professional development/ right competence • Shift meetings • Job satisfaction • Annual meetings • Fair wages, benefits, welfare • Joint meetings for all • Work-life balance • Employee satisfaction survey • Staffing/ Turn over • Personal development • Transparent, good and secure communication and conversations, information • Training and mentoring • Support system (HR) • Family day/visits at plant • Stable/safe jobs • EBS training • Regulatory issues Customers and • Regular meetings • Quality and stability of products suppliers • Email/phone dialogue • Reliability, confidentiality • Conferences/ trade shows • Service • Visits at plant and visit customers/ • Delivery on time supplier • Right price • Audits • Smooth administration, trust and compliance • Technical meetings • Strong on CSR – social and environment • Environmental footprint • Financial performance /taxes • Innovation Local and national • Regular meetings • Development and regulation plan authorities • Planned and unplanned inspections/ • Future plans and status of plant/company audits • Regulatory compliance and permits • Safety/EHS Stakeholder • Environment and resource management • Sustainability / CSR /social responsibility • Grants allocation • Innovation and R&D Corporate • Monthly/regular meetings • Efficiency and improvement management team • Workshops • Processes under control • Regular dialogue (phone/email/ • Deliver projects on time, quality and budget meetings) • Cost efficiency • Internal board meetings • Reliable performance • Reporting • Continuous improvement programmes • Audits • Organisational challenges • Technical and commercial meetings • Competitiveness Local community • Community events • Environmental issues and organisations • Sponsorships • Political conditions (NGOs, clusters, • Town hall meetings • Plant safety research) • Social events • Emergency response plan • Partnerships • R&D academic Investors and • Regular meetings • Value creation shareholders • Corporate reporting • CSR/ ESG performance • Regular phone/email dialogue • Financial opportunities • Strategy development • Corporate governance Unions • Monthly/ weekly/ regular meetings • Working conditions • Labour committee • Contract/tariff negotiations • Informal contact / phone /email • Environmental issues • Positive communication 9 INTRODUCTION ELKEM SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2019 SUSTAINABILITY CHALLENGES AND OPPORTUNITIES throughout the whole value chain for EHS, CSR, finance, legal, A complex value chain like Elkem’s includes a wide range of risks compliance and other relevant issues that may impact our busithat need to be considered and managed. In addressing these ness. The matrix on page 59 shows an overview of our main risks, we have uncovered challenges that need to be monitored sustain­ability risks, opportunities and challenges, and how they and regulated, as well as opportunities that we can capitalise are embedded in our value chain. Below you will find a simplion going forward. Our risk management includes assessments fied version of Elkem's value chain: Input factors PLANTS End products Transport/EV’s, buildings, batteries, Charcoal, coal, coke, anthraconsumer products, healthcare cite, wood Quartz chips, binder, electrode Power Iron MANAGEMENT OF CORPORATE SOCIAL responsible for initiating and following up corporate CSR efforts. RESPONSIBILITY Elkem’s sustainability report is the main channel for CSR Elkem’s management of Corporate Social Responsibility and susreporting and has been prepared in accordance with the GRI tainability is defined in the following policies: Standards: Core option and complies with the requirements set out in the Oslo Stock Exchange guidance on the reporting of ■ Corporate governance policy of Elkem ASA corporate responsibility. ■ Elkem policy for corporate social responsibility For investor relations purposes, we have also prepared an ■ Mandate for the CSR steering committee index listing key ESG topics for Elkem (with referrals to corre■ Code of conduct sponding ESG reporting). The index is found on www.elkem.com. ■ Speak up policy The sustainability targets developed in 2017 will be reported ■ Anti-corruption policy on for the second time this year. You find the targets and pro■ Competition law compliance policy gress in each chapter of the report. ■ Elkem Code of Conduct for business partners TARGETS FOR SUSTAINABILITY REPORTING The corporate governance policy for Elkem ASA is approved The targets below reflect how Elkem overall manages engageby the Board of directors and provides the overall strategic ment and reporting on sustainability. Each chapter in this report approach while the other procedures are approved by corpo­ includes specific targets, aligned to our material sustainability rate management. A dedicated steering committee for CSR is topics. Targets Timeline Status Comments Integrate the Sustainable Developments Goals (SDGs) more into 2019-2020 On track Will be finalised in 2020 the report and consider reporting on selected targets Consider reporting to the Carbon Disclosure Project (CDP) 2020 To be decided Consider reporting on climate risk in alignment with Task Force on 2020 To be decided Pre-assessment Climate-related Financial Disclosure (TCFD) conducted in 2019 10 ELKEM SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2019 INTRODUCTION OPPORTUNITIES AND CHALLENGES IN THE VALUE CHAIN • Biocarbon • Energy efficiency • Long lasting product • Carbon footprint in value • Hydropower • Energy recovery • Replace oil-based plastics chain/LCA OPPORTUNITIES • Environmental and social • PAH free products • Product safety • Products for renewable • Procurement standards • Recycling of silicon • Product stewardship energy, energy storage/ batteries, EVs, resilient • Closed furnace, CCS/CCU • Silicones recycling infrastructure and urbanisation, electronics and health care • Circular economy • Product stewardship RAW METALLURGIC SILICONES END MATERIALS PLANTS PRODUCTION PRODUCTS • Fossil coal • CO2 emissions/ CO2 prices • Water stress • Technology leap • Sustainable biocarbon • NOx emissions • Water management • Product safety CHALLENGES availablility • SO2 emissions • Hazardous waste • Chemical reputation • Forced labour at suppliers • Dust emissions • Chemical safety • Child labour at suppliers • Landfill • Spill to water • Land resources in mining • Coal tar pitch/PAH and forestry • Human rights abuse TOPICS OF FOCUS FOR THE WHOLE VALUE CHAIN Strong compliance and ethical business standards Occupational health and safety Attractive work place and employer retention Climate change and climate risks Community impact and stakeholder dialogue Innovation and R&D Regulatory and political changes – changes in industry reputation Financial strength COMPANY STRATEGY Operational efficiencies and synergies Specialisation and value chain optimisation Organic growth and acquisitions 11 INTRODUCTION ELKEM SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2019 COMMITMENTS division of roles between shareholders, the board of directors and Elkem is committed to conducting business in support of the executive management more comprehensively than is required United Nations Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs) and the by legislation. Paris Agreement ambitions. As a member of the United Nations Elkem’s silicones division is a member of the Responsible Global Compact, Elkem ensure that our business is aligned with the Care Global Charter, the chemical industry’s global initiative to ten UN Global Compact principles. Elkem is committed to followdrive continuous improvement in environment, health, safety ing the United Nations Guiding Principles on Business and Human and security performance. Membership entails a commitment to Rights and have made available an updated UK Modern Slavery managing chemicals safely throughout their life cycle. For more Act statement. information, please visit the societal impact chapter on page 80. Elkem adheres to the principles of “the Norwegian Code of Elkem is committed to complying with international reguPractice for Corporate Governance” issued by the Norwegian latory requirements and provides safety data sheets (SDS) for Corporate Governance Board (“NUES” or the “Code”). The objecall its products in accordance with the UN Globally Harmonized tive of this Code is that companies listed on regulated markets System of Classification and Labelling of Chemicals (GHS) or its in Norway will practice corporate governance that regulates the national implementations. 12 ELKEM SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2019 INTRODUCTION Climate risk and opportunities A transition to a low carbon emission society involves both risks and opportunities for Elkem. Both climate change and climate policy will impact our business and financial conditions in the decades ahead. Understanding the challenges and opportunities all measures put in place to meet the risk of higher this entails, have been one of the drivers for the carbon prices. Task Force on Climate-Related Financial DiscloSilicones, silicon, microsilica and ferrosilicon sure (TCFD) that was established in 2015. are all used in green products or to improve the Climate risk management helps ensure comenergy efficiency and sustainability of existing petitiveness in the green transition. By applying products. Examples of important green end-prodthe TCFD framework, Elkem assessed the most ucts include more energy efficient devices, elecimportant drivers for cutting emissions in Elkem’s trical motors and transformers. The demand for value chain in 2019. Prioritised transitional risk these types of products is expected to increase drivers were identified as CO2 price and emission substantially in the future. One example is the trading systems, the battle over biocarbon and demand for high purity ferrosilicon to electrical increased demand for green products. steel that is expected to increase by 40% by 2025. The development of the EU Emissions Trading Elkem has made a commitment to a mini­mum System (EU ETS) and other greenhouse gas emis40% reduction in fossil CO2 emissions by 2030 sion pricing mechanisms are key regulatory risks at the Norwegian smelters, in connection with for Elkem. In the coming ten years, the EU ETS efforts to reduce the carbon footprint of prowill be tightened, reducing the number of allow­ ducing sil­icon and ferrosilicon. Long term access ances annually by 2%. In addition, China is set to to biocarbon is essential to meet this goal and introduce a regional quota system and Canada Elkem is involved in a number of activities around already has a carbon trading system that Elkem is the world to develop sustainable sources of bioa part of with its production presence in Quebec. carbon. The volume needed to replace 40% fosAs the main source of electricity for our smelt­ing sil coal with biocarbon at Elkem’s smelters is production is renewable with hydroelectric power, equal to 7% of Norway’s annual forest extracwe already have a low CO2 footprint compared tion and competes with other demand for bioto the industry average. Using more biocarbon, based products like bio-fuel. Our sourcing and ensuring energy efficiency, establishing energy research activities are therefore looking closely recovery, entering long-term renewable energy at alternative sources of bio-carbon and alternaagreements, and recycling of waste streams are tive methods to develop it. 13 ENERGY AND ENVIRONMENT ELKEM SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2019 Energy and environment: Driving a transition Using highly developed production technology, Elkem converts natural resources into products that today's society is fully dependent on. This demands a lot of energy and affects the environment – directly and indirectly. 698 GWh energy >20% reduction of 3% annual energy  SO2 emissions recovery in 2019 fossil emissions consumption falling reduction target 14 ELKEM SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2019 ENERGY AND ENVIRONMENT Targets – energy and environment Unit 2017 2018 2019 Comment Energy recovery increase year on year GWh 689 645 698 Energy recovery project in Salten on track for Status N/A On track On track On track for production completion start in 2020. CO2 emissions, direct (scope 1) Million 1.77 2.54 2.15 Due to lower production tonnes and increased use of bio-carbon. CO2 emissions, indirect (scope 2) Tonnes Not Not Not reported reported reported CO2: 20% reduction of direct fossil emissions for % 21 19 18 Will be reported from Norwegian smelters by 2021 2020. CO2: 40% reduction of direct fossil emissions for % N/A N/A N/A Challenges with Norwegian smelters by 2030. sourcing of sustainable biocarbon. CO2 goal: Complete overview of CO2 indirect Status N/A N/A On track Started reporting in carbon emission footprint 2019. NOx emissions Tonnes 7,110 7,070 6,718 NOx: Reduce emissions from Norwegian smelters Tonnes N/A (312) (553) Baseline year: 2015 by 1000 tonnes SO2: Reduction (to be defined) in direct SO2 from Tonnes 7,900 9,000 7,309 Set back due to processs by 2030 technical issues at plants. Elkem Fiskaa Carbon SO2 scrubber and energy Status N/A N/A Some Technical issues. recovery unit fully operational delay Dust emissions Million 2 1.8 1.2 tonnes Dust goal: 30% reduction % (14%) (10%) (38%) Baseline year: 2015 Waste:% reduction (to be defined) of process % N/A N/A N/A waste to landfill or destrcution Water goal: No deviation in water requirements Number of N/A 0 0 deviations Fresh water consumption m3 million N/A 36.2 80 Process waste water discharge m 3 N/A 14.9 12.7 million million Water goal: Compliance with mandated remidation Number of N/A N/A N/A Compliant. on Fiskaa water body to lowest cost deviations D4/D5 goal: Zero spills/emissions Number of N/A 0 0 deviations Analyse and develop a climate risk overview Status N/A N/A Finished Memo on climate risk finished in 2019. The process of converting quartz to silicon is a high temperacess itself uses carbon sources like fossil coal, charcoal and wood ture smelting process that consumes vast amounts of energy. chips as a reductant in the chemical conversion giving emissions Even though the energy base for most of Elkem's production is of CO₂, NOx and SO₂. These emissions are inherent to the process renewable, it has an environmental effect. The production proand cannot be fully removed with today’s technology. In Elkem's 15 ENERGY AND ENVIRONMENT ELKEM SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2019 downstream business, there are also potential environmen­tal ■ Full compliance with all applicable environmental impacts to air and water when converting silicon to silicones. regulations wherever Elkem operates worldwide. All of these environmental impacts are identified and doc­ ■ Creating and sustaining a strong environmental reputation umented with measurements or calculations showing perfor­ wherever Elkem operate worldwide. mance compared to permits given by government authorities ■ Ensuring sustainable production and emissions/discharge where Elkem operates, and/or improvement targets set by control based on our knowledge of the environmental Elkem. Key environmental parameters are reported quarterly effects of our production. This also applies in countries at corporate level. In addition to this, environmental deviations where applicable environmental regulation is weak or nonare reported, investigated and closely followed up in a timely existent. manner. In 2019 there were no serious environmental incidents. ■ Strengthening our position in the development of Because of the potential environmental impacts, all applitechnology and materials that enable reduction in cable Elkem sites are required to have an appropri­ate Envigreenhouse gas emissions throughout the world. ronmental Management System and many are also ISO14001 certified. In addition, applicable sites are required to have The strategy introduced a comprehensive set of KPIs with Energy Management Systems and some are also ISO50001 quarterly reporting on energy consumption, emissions to air and certified (see certification list on www.elkem.com). water and waste/process-products. It is also followed up at production sites with detailed road maps showing how targets can ENVIRONMENTAL STRATEGY be met. The main environmental KPIs are: In 2018, Elkem renewed its environmental strategy confirming its commitment to: KPI Targets CO2 • 20% reduction in direct fossil CO2 emissions for Norwegian smelters by 2021, 40% by 2030 • Full understanding of indirect CO2 emissions SO2 • % reduction (to be defined) in direct SO2 from process gas by 2030 NOx • 1000 tonnes reduction at Norwegian smelters by 2025 Dust • 30% reduction by 2025 (2015 base) Waste • % reduction (to be defined) of process waste to landfill or destruction by 2025 Energy • Energy recovery increase year on year Water (COD / PAH / fresh water • Meet new water directive requirements in Europe, and new water requirement in China consumption) (national and local) • Compliance with mandated remediation of Fiskaa water body to lowest cost D4/D5 • Zero spills of D4/D5 REDUCING OUR ENVIRONMENTAL FOOTPRINT Successful examples of these efforts include replacing fos­ Elkem’s environment, health and safety (EHS) efforts are based sil carbon with bio-carbon (wood chips and charcoal), furnace on a zero-harm philosophy. For the environmental part this design implementation and operational parameter changes to means running operations with resource-efficient processes reduce NOx generated in the smelting process. This is done by where negative environmental impacts are minimised throughusing more low-sulphur raw materials to reduce SO2 emissions, out the value chain. and a num­ber of energy recovery projects to utilise heat generated in the different processes. For more information, please Efforts focus on four main areas: visit the chapter on energy and environment on page 60 and ■ Increasing material and energy efficiency including www.elkem.com. energy recovery ■ Substitution of raw materials ENERGY: CONSUMPTION, RECOVERY AND EFFICIENCY ■ Development of new production technology Energy is of upmost importance to secure necessary supply while ■ Using efficient air and water treatment systems at the same time reducing Elkem's global greenhouse gas footwhen necessary print. A new regulatory framework, such as concessions, directives, 16 ELKEM SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2019 ENERGY AND ENVIRONMENT taxes and positive stimuli in the form of public support substantiMuch of this can be recovered to hot water for district heating, ates the importance of increased focus on energy efficiency. both internally on site and to other public facilities and industries Parts of Elkem’s value chain are highly energy intensive, with close to the plants, and to steam used in industrial processes silicon, ferrosilicon and foundry alloys being produced in elecand/or to generate electricity. tric arc furnaces. Elkem’s smelting furnaces consume just under 5 TWh of electrical energy per year. Energy recovery Elkem was an industrial pioneer in the utilisation of waste GWh ■ 2017 ■ 2018 ■ 2019 heat, with the first energy recovery system on a smelting furRecycled to electricity nace being installed already in the 1970s. Recovered heat from smelting furnaces can be utilised as hot water for district heating, steam for other production processes and to generate new Recycled to district heating electricity. Electricity is sold back to the grid while hot water and steam are used both internally and externally to supply other companies and communities in the vicinity of each plant. Recycled to steam Energy consumption Total energy recovery Total gross electricity consumption in Elkem in 2019 was 6,010 GWh, down from 6,228 GWh in 2018. Most of this change is related to reduced production because of the general global 0 100 200 300 400 500 600 700 800 market situation for Elkem’s main products. More than 83% of the total gross electricity consumption is based on renewable power production. With the exception of one smelter in China, all The potential for energy recovery has been mapped at all smelting furnaces in Elkem run on renewable electrical energy. smelters. Three of Elkem’s smelters already have large boilers attached to their off-gas systems to recover substantial amounts Energy consumption 1) of energy to steam or electricity. A fourth facility will come online GWh ■ 2017 ■ 2018 ■ 2019 in 2020 giving another 270 GWh of electrical energy. Gross electricity consumption Globally, a total of 698 GWh heat and electricity was recovered from our plants in 2019. This represents an increase of 54 GWh from 2018. 0 1000 2000 3000 4000 5000 6000 7000 Energy efficiency 1) 2017 numbers do not include Elkem Yongdeng. All Elkem sites are required to have an appropriate energy management system and an energy inventory showing the potential In addition to electrical energy, Elkem also consumes approxto increase energy efficiency and thereby save energy. Examples imately 1.4 TWh of other types of energy for internal vehicle of this could be replacing old, inefficient electrical motors with operation and heating/cooling of facilities and processes. Most new motors with advanced digital energy control. For examples, of this is fossil based energy. please visit www.elkem.com. In 2019, Elkem realised energy reduction efforts of 51 GWh in projects related to infrastructure and utility consumption, of Annual reduction which several initiatives received public support. Target specification 2019 ambition Elkem infrastructure and utility 1,398 CO₂ EMISSIONS AND TRADING SCHEMES energy consumption (GWh) Elkem emitted a total of 2.15 million tonnes of CO2 from fossil carbon in 2019, down from 2.54 million tonnes in 2018. This is mainly Different energy reduction 51 because of lower production, but also because of increased efforts (GWh) use of bio-carbon in the smelting process. About 81% of direct Sum% reduction: 4 3 CO2 emissions are generated in the smelting furnace reduction process where carbon (C) reacts with oxygen in quartz to produce silicon/ferrosilicon. As we are not able to measure this Energy recovery type of emission directly, they are calculated based on third Elkem has a long-term strategy to increase energy recovery year party certificates of carbon content (TC) in raw materials. Numon year as part of its climate programme. A number of Elkem’s bers for CO2 from other sources, including heating and fuel, are production processes generate surplus heat that traditionally based on standard conversion factors in accordance with EU/ has been emitted through off-gas systems or cooling systems. ETS Guidelines. 17 ENERGY AND ENVIRONMENT ELKEM SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2019 CO2 emissions areas; Increasing material and energy efficiency, replacing fosMillion tonnes ■ 2017 ■ 2018 ■ 2019 sil carbon with bio-carbon and developing new carbon neutral Direct fossil CO2 from production smelting technology. Examples of progress in all these areas are detailed on www. elkem.com. Direct bio CO2 from production N.A. One of Elkem's main CO2 reduction strategies is replacing fossil carbon with bio-carbon in our smelting operations. The goal is to reduce the fossil carbon footprint at our Norwegian smelters 0 0.5 1.0 1.5 2.0 2.5 3.0 with 20% by 2021, and by 40% by 2030. In 2019 the group had already met the 2021 goal and continues to work closely with As CO2 emission is inherent to the smelting process with curpartners to develop efficient and more environmentally friendly rent tech­nology, total emissions will vary year on year based on production of bio-carbon for silicon and ferrosilicon production. market conditions and capacity utalisation. As CO2 is inherent to the smelting process with current technology, total emissions will Consumption – redution materials vary year on year based on market conditions and capacity utili1 000 tonnes ■ 2017 ■ 2018 ■ 2019 sation. During the past few years Elkem has seen an increase in Coal the group's total CO2 emissions. All of this can be related directly to production expansion. From 2017 Elkem has increased production with five smelting furnaces; two in Norway, four in China and Coke N.A. one in Paraguay. The furnace in Paraguay runs solely on hydroelectric power and uses only bio-carbon as a reductant, makCharcoal ing its operations close to carbon neutral. The increase in CO2 is also connected to the acquisition of upstream silicone activities in China, which uses a coal fired boiler to produce steam used Wood chips in the production process. Elkem has a number of ongoing activities to reduce its CO2 footprint. These activities are basically grouped in three main 0 100 200 300 400 500 600 Increase material and Reduce fossil Development of Closed energy efficiency Co2 emissions furnace technology • Stabilise and increase the • Increased biocarbon portion • Develop furnace technology for furnace’s silicon yield. of total CO2 emissions (>20% in silicon alloy production with • Reduce silicon losses from tap 2020 and >40% in 2030. no (direct) CO2 emissions to the hole to final product. • Establish concepts and industrial atmosphere. • Install energy recovery systems production of biocarbon, • Facilitate for future CO2 capture at furnace off gas. tailormade as FeSi/Si reductants, and storage. utilising all material and energy – at competitive cost levels. 18 ELKEM SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2019 ENERGY AND ENVIRONMENT Trading schemes SO2 emissions Most of Elkem's smelters are subjects to the EU/ETS system and 1 000 tonnes ■ 2017 ■ 2018 ■ 2019 its external revision schemes (plants in Norway and Iceland). Total SO2 emissions From the start in 2013, Elkem was granted on average 1.2 million free allowances per year as part of the EU system to avoid car0 2 4 6 8 10 bon leakage where production would be moved out of Europe to other countries without carbon trading schemes. When it was identified that smelters in Norway had been allocated fewer free Dust quotas than other countries in Europe, the allocation was sucElkem allocates significant resources to combat dust. However, cessfully appealed increasing the number of free quotas alloextremely high temperatures and ultrafine particles that disperse cated to Elkem’s Norwegian smelters. very quickly make it especially difficult to capture dust generated in some of the production processes. OTHER EMISSIONS TO AIR Elkem emits both NOx, SO₂, and dust. These WATER MANAGEMENT emissions are mainly from the carbon calcinHistorically, the majority of Elkem’s production ing process, the silicon/ferrosilicon smelting facilities were located in areas where freshwaprocess and the upstream silicone-based ter supplies were abundant and more than product process. Major emission variaDID YOU KNOW sufficient for Elkem’s production activities tions are tied to changes in producThat Elkem's NOx without any water stress issues. Water tion volume, but can also be affected emissions decreased by management activities were mainly by the quality of raw materials, proapproximately 5% from focused on discharge control to ensure cess control and investment in filter 2018 to 2019? that public permits are respected, and systems. that water bodies close to our production sites were duly protected against harmful disNOx charge. As Elkem has expanded globally and Elkem continues its efforts to reduce emismigrated more into chemical processing, water sions of NOx through equipment design economisation, recovery and reuse on site have and process control. Numbers for 2019 show a become more important parts of the water managereduction of approximately 5% from 7,070 tonnes in 2018 ment programmes. to 6,718 in 2019. Water is an important raw material in the production of base and intermediate silicones and is also used extensively in the difNOx emissions ferent processing steps. The fact that Elkem’s upstream silicones 1 000 tonnes ■ 2017 ■ 2018 ■ 2019 production is located close to important freshwater bodies in Total NOx emissions both France and China, where effluent from chemical production is closely regulated, has also increased the focus on water management. 0 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 Water body monitoring (both fresh and saltwater bodies) has been done at Elkem’s plants for decades in accordance with applicable regulations and permits. In Europe this means compliSO₂ ance with the EU Water Framework Directive, while other regulaIn 2019 Elkem emitted 7,309 tonnes SO2, down from 9,000 tions apply in other regions around the world where we operate. tonnes in 2018. Most of the reduction is based on reduced proThere are three main groups of pollutants from Elkem’s producduction because of global market conditions for Elkem’s main tion that can have a negative effect on water bodies close to products. For SO₂ the main focus has traditionally been on sourcproduction sites; ing raw materials with a lower Sulphur content. As this potential is limited, scrubbing systems are also being considered where this ■ Heavy metals found naturally in raw materials used in the is feasible. In 2018, Elkem Carbon Norway finished the installation production of silicon, ferrosilicon and carbon products can of a large SO2 filter with support from the Norwegian SO2 fund. be released during the production process and emitted to Unfortunately, the installation has not operated as expected air. Rain and water run-off will enable these to find their due to technical issues and has therefore been out of operation way to water bodies. for most of 2019. Most of the technical issues have now been solved, but there still are challenges attaining the full effect of ■ Polycyclic aromatic hydrocarbons (PAH) components this major investment. Elkem Bjølvefossen is also evaluating a found in raw materials used in carbon products are harmful similar project. for aquatic life. These find their way to water bodies either 19 ENERGY AND ENVIRONMENT ELKEM SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2019 through direct discharge of process water, or by washable level. Remediation efforts are also implemented and/or off of particles emitted to air and end up in marine life and planned where needed. sediments. Potential and real effects are closely followed The total freshwater consumption in Elkem was approxiup at applicable plants. mately 80 mil m3 in 2019. Most of this consumption is in areas with abundant freshwater supplies and no signs of water stress. ■ Organic substances that reduce the oxygen content in Approximately 10%, is however, located in areas where the availwater bodies, so called chemical oxygen depletion (COD) ability of fresh water is a concern like South Africa and parts substances are the main challenge in the production of of China. silicones. This is especially critical for the two upstream plants located in China and France that produce upstream WASTE MANAGEMENT silicones. Elkem operates with a zero-waste philosophy closely tied to our business system (EBS). This includes a strong commitment to In addition to discharge from current production there is a reduce the generation of waste at its source, to recycle or regenpotential from the ground on and around production sites. A erate byproducts to the extent this is feasible on site, and to number of Elkem’s older plants are situated where industrial proseparate any remaining waste before delivery to external waste duction has existed for more than a century. Through the years, management to enable recycling. facilities were built on landfills and/or had their own landfills as Historically, waste from Elkem's smelting activities consisted this was permitted at that time in history. mainly of non-hazardous inorganic materials such as slag, prodAll of these, both historical and current discharges are uct fines, quartz fines and a smaller quantity of organic fines from closely followed up and effective water treatment plants wood-chips and charcoal. For all of these, extensive projects are used where necessary to reduce the effect to an accepthave been initiated to re-cycle and re-use instead of depositing 20 ELKEM SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2019 ENERGY AND ENVIRONMENT in landfills. Many of these have been very successful by both the production process and used to produce downstream creating new products and by better utilisation of raw materials silicone products. In addition, some additives used in the (see www.elkem.com). production process are listed as SVHC in Europe. With silicones there is much higher content of organic waste and hazardous waste from the different production processes. Silicon products and ferroalloys Destruction of hazardous waste is managed by certified external For the production of Elkem’s silicon products and ferroalsuppliers, while other waste will either be incinerated or landfilled loys, natural raw materials are carefully selected in order to in accordance with local regulations. Many projects have also meet the product specifications. Natural raw materials, as been initiated to reduce waste at its source and to regenerate well as the final products, may contain trace amounts of “elechemicals for re-use instead of destroying or depositing them. ments of concern”, i.e. heavy metals. However, the concenWaste to landfill in 2019 was 340,000 tonnes including 3,500 tration of such elemental impurities is as low as a few ppm tones hazardous waste managed by certified third party service (parts per million) and thus, far below the generic threshold suppliers. Recovery of biproducts and consumables that could value of 0.1% that would trigger regulatory action. No SVHC’s be used in own production or sold to others constituted 67,000 currently listed on REACH annex XIV, are intentionally added tonnes. In addition, 136,000 tonnes of recovered smelting furto Elkem’s silicon and ferroalloy products. A number of leachnace dust was processed to Microsilica which is a full value proding tests have been carried out on Elkem’s products in order uct with many uses including concrete strengthening for the to assess bioavailability of elements of concern. Leaching of construction and building industry. critical elements is so low that the products would comply with European regulations for the use in toys (EN 71-3, safety ENVIRONMENTAL DEVIATIONS of toys) or in electronic equip­ment (RoHS directive), and even There were no significant spills, defined as those that have a meet the recommendations of the Federal Institute for Risk lasting environmental impact, or significant environmental inciAssessment Germany for fillers in polymers with food con­ dents in 2019. tact (BfR LII). A total of 66 environmental deviations were reported globally in Elkem for 2019. Most of these were small brief permit deviaCarbon products tions from Elkem’s upstream and intermediate silicone producElkem Carbon is one of the world’s largest manufacturer of tion in France and China. Søderberg electrode paste that is used in metal production Because of its location close to one of China’s largest freshwaaround the globe. Historically, Søderberg electrode paste has ter bodies, Elkem Xinghuo is subject to very strict requirements been made of coal tar pitch and coke. The use of coal tar pitch, for discharge to water and has been under close follow-up from high temperature, requires authorisation under the European the authorities during 2019 as water treatment facilities were not REACH regulation. However, since the use of coal tar pitch sufficient to meet these requirements. Production reduction has in Søderberg electrodes is considered as intermediate, it is been necessary in 2019 to meet the requirements. exempted from authorisation. Elkem Carbon has been working successfully on the replacement of hazardous pitch with PRODUCT STEWARDSHIP, SUBSTANCES OF CONCERN green substitutes and can now offer an increasing range of AND CONFLICT MATERIALS products free of polycyclic, aromatic hydrocarbons (PAH). This Product stewardship focuses on the environmental, health and is an important step towards a non-toxic workplace environsafety effects of Elkem’s products through storage, transportament, for both Elkem and customers. tion and use by the group's customers. It includes fully understanding potential hazards with our products and giving clear Silicones information on safe use and handling through safety data sheets D4, D5 and D6 are key intermediates for all silicones products. and other information to customers and partners. There has been extensive research and discussion the past years Elkem has a high focus on product stewardship with resources to identify and verify possible hazards with these products, but at both corporate, divisional and plant level. environmental authorities around the world have still not come to a common understanding of the possible environmental effects. Substances of very high concern (SVHC) in As final environmental classification in Europe is still ongoing, Elkem’s products Elkem continues to take all necessary steps to reduce any enviElkem has three main product areas where substances of conronmental risk (see www.elkem.com for more information on cern occur: D4, D5 and D6). ■ For silicon products and ferroalloys, heavy metals are For some downstream products certain acids and catalysts naturally occurring elements in raw materials. defined as SVHC are currently in use for the formulation of some ■ For carbon products, coal tar pitch high temperature is products. These are kept under close control and substituted used as an intermediate in the production process. whenever possible. As they are only part of the production pro■ For silicones, D4 and D5 are generated as intermediates in cess, they do not cause any hazard in the final product. 21 ENERGY AND ENVIRONMENT ELKEM SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2019 Conflict materials OUR PROCESS FOR RESPONSIBLE SOURCING Conflict minerals refers to raw materials or minerals that come Risk assesments and audits can be conducted prior to pre-qualfrom a particular part of the world where conflict is occurring ification at any stage of the supplier contract: and affects the mining and trading of those materials. These conflict minerals are tin, tantalum, tungsten (the “3T’s”) and gold. Elkem uses chemical compounds made from some of these in small quantities in the silicones production process and has strict sourcing controls to ensure that procurement of these are done in full compliance with applicable European regulations. RISK MANAGEMENT Safe transportation of hazardous goods Potential hazards in connection with the transportation, handling Pre-qualification and storage of all of Elkem’s raw materials and products are fully for new suppliers* analysed, and measures to ensure this can be done safely are Specify business needs Tender Contract documented and made available to logistics supplier and cusSustainability tomers. The main risks include loss of containment leading to the criteria in tenders possibility of fire or toxic release from raw materials and products under transportation. Logistics suppliers that handle hazardous goods for Elkem are closely screened and required to have all applicable certifications for vehicles and drivers. In Europe there CAP FOLLOW-UP AND AUDIT AND CORRECTION SUPPLIER DEVELOPMENT ACTION PLAN (CAP) is also close cooperation between different chemical producers with agreements to give assistance to each other in case of emergency situations with the transportation of hazardous goods. * Not all pre-qualified suppliers enter our sourcing process. Energy and emission tracking Unit 2016 2017 2018 2019 Net sales MNOK 16,722 21,133 24,968 22,246 Energy consumption (electrical) GWh 4,399 5,279 6,228 6,010 Energy consumption per net sales GWh/MNOK 0.26 0.25 0.25 0.27 VOC emissions Tonnes N/A N/A 32 82 VOC emissions per net sales T/MNOK N/A N/A 0.001 0.004 Freshwater use m3 N/A N/A 36,208,744 79,745,341 Freshwater use per net sales Dam3/MNOK 0 0 1,450.2 3,584.7 COD flow Kg N/A N/A 413,389 324,665 COD emissions per net sales Kg/MNOK N/A N/A 16.6 14.6 Total waste Tonnes N/A N/A 339,477 466,443 Total waste per net sales Tonnes/MNOK N/A N/A 13.6 20.7 22 ELKEM SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2019 ENERGY AND ENVIRONMENT 23 ENERGY AND ENVIRONMENT ELKEM SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2019 24 ELKEM SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2019 ENERGY AND ENVIRONMENT Purifying the smelting process Elkem invests more than NOK 250 million in a new furnace at Bremanger to improve efficiency and reduce the environmental footprint. The project was initiated primarily to reduce NOx The furnace project has total capital expenditures emission from the silicon process at furnace numof NOK 259 million, of which NOK 90 million is prober 5 at the Bremanger plant. We will implement vided by the Norwegian NOx fund. the same technology that has previously been According to Jensen the upgrade also increases installed at other furnaces at Elkem , says project the production capacity. manager Ragnhild Jensen at Elkem Technology. The new annual production will be 4,500 Elkem Bremanger has been a cornerstone comtonnes Silgrain feedstock , says Jensen. pany in the village of Svelgen in the Sogn og FjorThe final equipment installations and cold comdane region on the west coast of Norway since missioning was done in December 2019, and the 1928. production started in January 2020. Today the organisation manufactures metallurJensen, who has more than 20 years experigic silicon-based products for the world market, ence from Elkem, characterises the project as very for example Silgrain® which is used in the eleccomplex. tronic and solar industry and Superseed®; one We have changed parts and installed new of the most powerful inoculants used in the iron equipment all the way from the bottom plate of foundry industry. the furnace and to the mid of the off-gas channel towards the filter. We are talking about a quite narThe furnace upgrade will reduce NOx emissions row work space and people have physically been with up to 50%, the equivalent to 360 tonnes annuworking on top of each other. It's a real puzzle to ally and 100,000 cars on the road. assure that everyone completes their job at the To have a greener footprint from our producright time without accidents. The safety has been tion plants is crucial for future production , says the first priority , assures Jensen. Jensen. The project also implies that the factory will Plant manager Arne Werge-Olsen is very have a new system for collection of process fume pleased with the project. from the tapping area. Due to the new design of The upgrade of Furnace 5 will secure our conthe furnace hood and stoking doors, the furnace tinued specialisation strategy within silicon prodwill also have an improved collection of process ucts, here at Elkem Bremanger. In addition, I am gas from the furnace itself. really glad that this will improve the work environWe look forward to seeing improvements in ment around the furnace, amongst other things the inner environment as to significant reduction reducing dust emissions. This is a very important in silica dust exposure , says the project manager. upgrade , he says. FACTS ABOUT THE PROJECT: ■ Totally more than 100,000 hours worked in the execution phase of the project ■ More than 4,000 work permits ■ Peak manning of 200 persons in the most intense weeks 25 ATTRACTIVE EMPLOYER ELKEM SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2019 Attractive employer: Building an even better workplace Elkem´s skilled and dedicated employees are the basis for success and Elkem strives to remain an attractive employer, both to retain existing employees, and to attract new ones. Key priorities in these efforts are ensuring a safe and healthy working environment, facilitating training and competence building, as well as promoting equality and diversity. 65% of Elkem employees 50% of women employees ZERO reports of child or forced 25%female share had an annual devel­opment invited to Elkem's leadership labour in Elkem or with total discussion in 2019 training programmes suppliers in 2019 Target – social employer topics Unit 2017 2018 2019 Comment Zero recordable injuries: Employees Total 3.1 2.2 2.2 recordable Zero recordable injuries: Contractors 8 5.3 Not injury rate reported Fatalities: Employees Number 0 0 1 Fatality commented on in text. Fatalities: Contractors Number 0 0 0 Zero cases of serious occupational illness Number 5 9 Not reported EHS training of all new employees at 100% % 95 100 Not reported Increased female share year on year % 21 25 25 Increased female share in management teams % 23 23 Development discussions at 100% % 100 59* 65* * Implementation rate was not available from three Asian Elkem units at the time of reporting. Implement a mentor programme for women Status N/A N/A Started Will be implemented in 2020 Environment, health and safety (EHS) are part of the foundation to our employees. Elkem takes responsibility for all activities on of the company and is always our first priority. EHS efforts are Elkem property and is committed to ensuring that employees based on a zero-harm philosophy. The safety of our employees and contractors working at Elkem sites can do so without harm. is paramount. Elkem strongly believe, and have shown at many Supported by a strong company culture, Elkem continuously plants, that our production can be conducted without any harm work to be a safe and attractive employer for current and future 26 ELKEM SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2019 ATTRACTIVE EMPLOYER employees. Organisational development, continuous talent manElkem's processes are better understood and optimised, but the agement and systematic competence development are key to focus on Elkem's people is as important as ever. Only people can ensure the successful growth of the company. identify and solve problems. In doing so, they will gain valuable experience, knowledge and personal development. That's why COMMON CULTURE: ELKEM BUSINESS SYSTEM Elkem in 2019 decided to move empowered people to the cenElkem has more than 6,370 employees working at 29 productre of the EBS Logo. Everything starts and ends with our people. tion sites and a wide range of sales and administration offices spread around the world. EBS assessments to promote involvement and continuous As in all organisations, Elkem evolves and develops over improvement time and the company culture evolves with it. Elkem’s values ■ All sites are assessed by a corporate EBS team bi-yearly are involvement, respect, precision and continuous improveto measure involvement and improvements, and to ment. Along with the Elkem Business System (EBS), these are encourage further development. at the core of Elkem’s company culture. EBS is Elkem's business In addition, all business units and leadership philosophy and also a toolbox that enables a are encouraged to perform ELIM common language and working methods for all employees to self-assessments yearly. IN E A achieve both personal and business success. EBS covers all areas ■ Topics in the S AS OF W TE U MAKE of work, including productivity, quality and cost efficiency. At the assessment TO ON heart of EBS, is a dedication for involving our people in improveinclude learning TI ment work and empowering them to solve problems. Training and competence EMPOWERED and competence development at all levels of the organisation is development PEOPLE a central part of the philosophy. and structure / Elkem has considerable expertise in understanding and conformalisation of trolling processes which generally trend toward instability. Durimprovement work PR OC OL ing the 90's, bringing our processes into stable and predictable at all levels. Units are E SS I N CO N T R operation was a cornerstone of the company's profitability. Today, expected to show current 27 ATTRACTIVE EMPLOYER ELKEM SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2019 mapping of knowledge and skills in their work force, and a Putting the spotlight on Elkem as an attractive employer for plan for closing any competence gaps as well as for further candidates with diverse backgrounds, comprehensive work was development of their employees. done in 2019 to review existing practices. This work resulted in ■ Focus from the corporate team is on involvement, several specific measures, such as implementation of mandatory knowledge and information sharing, and on management diversity awareness training for recruiting managers, showcasing commitment to empowering their employees role models to display the diversity in the organisain continuous improvement work through tion, and revision of templates for job advertiseshared goals and tools. ments and related communications materials. DIVERSITY AND EQUALITY Incidents in 2019 Elkem is an international company with DID YOU KNOW There was one incident reported to corpoa presence in many countries around that Asia is the region rate level in 2019 regarding diversity and the world. Having employees that with the highest proportion equality, which was handled according to match this global presence, representof female employees in company procedures. The incident was ing diverse cultural and individual backElkem? partly due to cultural differences and was grounds, is necessary for the company to managed through coaching and training of succeed. Elkem is a local employer and valthe involved parties. ues the strength of local management and staff wherever Elkem is present. FEMALE SHARE Elkem is committed to ensuring equal opporElkem values gender diversity and aims to achieve a tunities for all our employees and an inclusive work culture. We better gender balance year on year. appreciate and recognise that every individual is unique and The process industry is generally male dominated. Women valuable and should be respected for his or her individual abiliare, however, increasingly expressing an interest in working in ties. We do not accept any form of harassment or discrimination our industry as increased automation leads to less heavy manual based on gender, religion, race, national or ethnic origin, cultural work. A high focus on environment, health and safety ensures a background, social group, disability, sexual orientation, marital better working environment and more sustainable operations. status, age or political opinion. Our focus on equality and diversity, our corporate values and Female share in Elkem our code of conduct are essential topics in the Elkem Onboard% ■ 2017 ■ 2018 ■ 2019 ing Programme (EOP), which is part of the mandatory training Blue-collar for all new employees. All managers in Elkem are expected to be strong ambassadors of diversity and equality, and diversity has been a key topic in the Elkem Leadership programme for White-collar several years. Elkem's new leadership development programme for first line managers worldwide also includes training on diversity. Each manager is responsible for following up the principle Total female share of non-discrimination. Due to Elkem’s growth in the Asian region over the recent years, several initiatives have been implemented to ensure applica­ble 0% 5% 10% 15% 20% 25% 30% 35% 40% training in our code of conduct and the principle of non-dis­ crimination in this region. The Asian branch of our compliance The female share in Elkem was 25% in 2019, and Asia was the department has adapted the corporate code of conduct training region with the highest proportion of female employees, with with content and ethical dilemmas based on a local business con28%. The substantial increase in female share from 2017 to 2018 text. Training sessions have been conducted in order to ensure that was due to the integration of the Chinese plants Elkem Xinghuo all employees fully understand and commit to the code of conduct. Silicones and Elkem Yongdeng Silicon Materials, with a higher In order to further strengthen an inclusive and diverse work proportion of female employees. culture globally, Elkem launched a pilot project on diversity and In 2019, 24% of the leaders in Elkem were female. One coninclusion in 2018. In 2019, several workshops were conducted crete action to improve our share of female leaders is to actively in three Asian countries where Elkem is present. Key activities encourage women to apply for management positions internally. in these workshops included addressing different forms of disElkem strives to have at least 50% women among the particicrimination, training in the Elkem code of conduct and increaspants invited to Elkem’s leadership training programmes. The ing awareness among employees by discussing possible ethical female participation rate in the programme increased from 25% dilemmas in our workday. The workshops will be continued as in 2018 to 32% in 2019. diversity and inclusion training for selected target groups in 2020. The female share in Elkem has been stable over the past 28 ELKEM SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2019 ATTRACTIVE EMPLOYER years. It has been decided to intensify the focus on attract­ing and agement teams in our divisions and corporate functions to get retaining more women, especially in management posi­tions. We a better overview and start tracking developments. The maphave launched several initiatives specifically aimed at our female ping continued in 2019, excluding internal boards. The mapping employees. A mentor programme targeting female mentees was showed that the female share in management teams reporting established as a pilot in 2019 and will be conducted throughto top management in Elkem is 23%, which is the same number out 2020. The programme will be evaluated and considered for as 2018. Furthermore, the mapping showed great differences global application after the pilot period. The corporate recruitwithin the organisation. Some places in the organisation, women ment policy and related training materials have been updated to accounted for over 50% of plant management where in other include topics such as including female recruiters and/or manlocations, there were no women in management at all. agers in each recruitment process and tracking the proportion of female candidates throughout the process. Age distribution Age distribution of employees in Elkem 2019 BOARD OF DIRECTORS AND MANAGEMENT Elkem’s board of directors consists of 11 members from Germany, < 30 years 16% France, China and Norway. The female share of the board is 36%. 30-50 years 59% Two of the eleven board members are in the age group 30–50 years old. The rest of the members are 51 years or older. > 50 years 25% The corporate management team of Elkem consists of ten people from France, Norway, China and Canada. The manageIn 2019, Elkem started tracking the age distribution of employment team consists of nine men and one woman. One of the ees. The tracking indicates that almost two thirds of the employmembers is in the age group of 30 to 50 years old and the rest ees are 30-50 years. The age distribution for blue-collar and are 51 years or older. white-collar employees is very similar to the overall age distriIn 2018, Elkem started mapping the female share of manbution for employees. 29 ATTRACTIVE EMPLOYER ELKEM SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2019 DEVELOPMENT AND TRAINING Turnover rate – female share % by region ■ 2018 ■ 2019 Elkem is active in many demanding markets and the need for continuous development and improvement is constant. The Americas organisation’s improvement work needs to be targeted, fastpaced and of high quality. Elkem actively uses employees’ dayEurope, Middle-East and Africa to-day work situation as the primary arena for learning. We believe that the best way to develop new skills is to participate in actual improvement processes and problem-solving cases Asia based on the EBS principles. We also consider taking on new responsibilities as a very important way of learning and developing. In order to strengthen our learning-by-doing approach 0% 2% 4% 6% 8% 10% 12% we also offer several in-house training programmes. Agreeing on an individual development plan is part of the annual development discussion that all employees in Elkem shall have with their leader. Elkem’s global target is that 100% Number of new hires of employees of all positions and locations shall have an annual By region ■ 2017 ■ 2018 ■ 2019 development discussion with their leader. Americas Implementation of development discussions Europe, Middle-East and Africa Region 2019 Americas 84% Asia Europe, Middle-East and Africa 66% Asia* 48% 0 50 100 150 200 250 300 350 * Implementation rate was not available from three Asian Elkem units at the time of reporting, among them Elkem Xinghuo Silicones. These units are therefore removed from this reporting.) New hires – female share % by region ■ 2018 ■ 2019 In 2019, 65% of Elkem employees had an annual development Americas discussion. This is a substantial increase from 2018, when 59% of employees had such discussions. Overall, 76% of all reporting Elkem units achieved 90% or higher implementation rate. 65% Europe, Middle-East and Africa of our locations met our 100% target in 2019. In 2020, we will increase our efforts and strive towards our goal of 100% in the whole organisation. Asia TURNOVER Turnover rate is an indication of attractiveness and how well 0% 5% 10% 15% 20% 25% 30% 35% Elkem manages to retain our employees. Total turnover rate in the Elkem group was 8% in 2019. Turnover rate Total Female % by region ■ 2017 ■ 2018 ■ 2019 Region 2019 share 2019 Americas Americas 157 19.1% Europe, Middle-East and Africa 327 34.2% Europe, Middle-East and Africa Asia 155 30.9% Asia The female share of new hires was overall 30% and the female share of leavers was 17%. These numbers indicate a positive effect of our efforts to attract and retain female 0% 2% 4% 6% 8% 10% 12% employees. 30 ELKEM SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2019 ATTRACTIVE EMPLOYER COLLECTIVE BARGAINING AGREEMENTS Contractors ■ 2018 ■ 2019 Elkem fully endorses employees’ freedom of association and Americas collective bargaining rights. These rights give employees the ability to create changes and find solutions with their employer and have a long tradition and strong standing in some of the Europe, Middle-East and Africa countries where we operate, like Norway and France. Elkem is also present in regions where collective bargaining agreements and freedom of association is less prevalent. Our corporate CSR Asia policy clearly states that all employees should receive information about the ability to organise and collectively bargain with management, to the extent that it is legally possible. This topic Total is of high importance to Elkem. Elkem complies with local statutory requirements regarding 0 200 400 600 800 1000 freedom of association in all countries where we are present. Pursuant to the provisions of the Norwegian Companies Act, employees have three representatives and two observers on CHILD AND FORCED LABOUR the board of Elkem ASA. Elkem has operations in several countries where there is a risk of The level of organisation varies from country to country. In child labour and forced labour, such as Asia, South America and some countries the operators are organised under one collective Africa. We take this risk most seriously, and we will not tolerate bargaining agreement. In other countries there are no unions repthe use of child or forced labour in any of our operations and resented in Elkem’s entities. Elkem supports the right to exercise facilities. We expect the suppliers and contractors with whom freedom of association and collective bargaining and in general we do business to uphold the same standards. cooperates well with the unions. This also includes our suppliers’ Elkem adheres to the UN Guiding Principles on Business and employees, where information about these rights are found in Human Rights, and commits to the UK Modern Slavery Act. We contractual agreements. have a clear CSR policy to secure the rights of our employees, as In 2019, Elkem started tracking the number of employees covwell as a Code of Conduct for Elkem’s Business Partners as part ered by collective bargaining agreements/union agreements. In of all new contracts to ensure the compliance of our suppliers. total, 61% of our employees are covered by such agreements, but Working at some supplier production sites or at some of our there are significant local and regional variations. own plants is considered high risk work and must only be done by trained and qualified people. % of employees covered by collective bargaining The age limit for working in Elkem is 18 years, with exception agreements / union agreements for vacation substitutes and vocational students, where the limit is 16 years. Vacation substitutes and vocational students are only Region 2019 allowed to do light and simple work that is deemed safe and does Americas 77% not conflict with school participation. To ensure compliance with these procedures and our CSR Europe, Middle-East and Africa 62% policy, several measures are in place. Elkem has strict routines Asia 50% to ensure that all official permits and registrations are in accordance with local law, and that all employees have written employment contracts, insurance coverage, correct tax payments, etc. CONTRACTORS EHS and CSR audits are regularly conducted in all plants, with Contractors provide services of many kinds at Elkem’s plants and specific focus on these topics for plants in high risk areas. CSR other locations around the world and are subject to the same workshops are also conducted to provide knowledge and trainEHS requirements as our own employees. All contractors receive ing and ensure awareness of these issues. full training and follow-up to ensure that they work in a safe and Elkem’s suppliers have contractual obligations to ensure that healthy environment. no children under the age of 15 (14 in some selected countries) The number of contract employees in Elkem was 882 in 2019, work at our suppliers’ plants and that they limit hazardous work defined as non-Elkem employees working full-time for more than and night work to persons over 18 years of age. These standards three months as a substitute for hired employees. are secured by pre-audit for approval of new suppliers and regular audits for existing suppliers, legally by contract. Incidents in 2019: There were no reports of child or forced labour in Elkem or with our suppliers in 2019. 31 SOCIETAL IMPACT ELKEM SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2019 Societal impact: Social responsibility in the DNA Elkem believes that sustainability is a core responsibility as well as a prerequisite in order to be at the forefront of our industry and to remain competitive in the future. Apart from our own operations, Elkem also has a significant social, environmental and economical footprint through procurement of raw materials, capital goods and services. The process industry plays a major role in the transition to a low carbon society and in mitigating the climate change effects. 100% 100% ZERO 16 bill. participation of target new raw material human rights incidents for NOK 16 billion group in human rights suppliers subject to supplier Elkem’s operations or in the total procurement training goal audits in 2019 supply chain in 2019 spend in 2019 Targets – societal impact Unit 2017 2018 2019 Comment Implement new harmonised process for supplier Status N/A In In Target deadline is management and global supplier management system progress progress 2020/2021 Conduct human rights impact assessment, identify Status N/A N/A N/A Target deadline is 2020 top human right priorities and develop human rights action plan Update our Human Rights Statement and publish a Status N/A N/A N/A In progress for 2019 Human Rights Policy, launch a human rights training programme, and develop a compliance monitoring programme on the top priority human rights 100% participation of target group in human rights Status N/A Goal not Goal not Training will start in 2020. training. attained attained Refresher course to be completed every year All new raw material suppliers are subject to risk % N/A 80% 73% Target is 100% screening assessment and pre-qualification screening (ex. China) All new raw material suppliers are subject to supplier % N/A 100% 100% Target is 100% auditing audit (ex. China) Implement templates and reporting procedures for Status N/A N/A On track Introduced to pilot more systematic stakeholder engagement group in 2019, will be rolled out in organisation in 2020. Number of human rights incidents identified for Number 0 0 0 Elkem’s operations or in the supply chain Percentage of new suppliers that have signed the % N/A N/A N/A Tracking will start in 2020 Code of Conduct for Elkem’s Business Partners 32 ELKEM SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2019 SOCIETAL IMPACT Possibilities and challenges inherent in moving towards a more demands for information on the actual environmental impact sustainable world is part of Elkem’s company risk assessments, of our products. divided into relevant areas such as market risk, EHS Elkem supports this development and works risk, CSR risk and financial risk. For more informa­ closely with customers on product life cycle analtion about sustainability risks, please visit the introysis (LCA). We work continuously to improve the duction chapter. environ­mental footprint of our products; footGlobal megatrends affect our business prints from both CO2 and other emissions strategy and drive Elkem’s growth, requirDID YOU KNOW such as NOx, SO2, dust and PAH. For more ing that we specialise our operations and that Silicon produced by information on these topics, please visit focus our products and solutions on Elkem has approximately the chapter on energy and environment future needs. Six megatrends have been one third of the emissions on page 62. identified as strategically important to compared to world Elkem is also focusing on improving Elkem, driving the demand for our prodaverage? calculation and tracking of emissions. Elkem ucts: Sustainability, energy demand growth, has a zero-harm vision and strives to be able rapid urbanisation, increased standard of living, to offer custom­ers sustainable solutions. Preage­ing and growing population, and digitalisation. paring our product portfolio today will give us a competitive advantage going forward, as we expect SUSTAINABILITY IMPACT OF ELKEM’S to see an increased demand for LCA information and PRODUCTS environmentally friendly products. For many years, Elkem has been in close dialogue with several Most of Elkem's CO2 emissions occur in the silicon and ferrosilcustomers when it comes to sustainability. Through initiatives icon processes. Our products, however, are mainly based on eleclike the sustainability rating company EcoVadis’ CSR rating, we tricity from hydropower and are therefore characterised by lower have been able to track our performance on sustainability and envi­ronmental footprints than many competitor products. On averexpectations from our customers. 2019 has been a milestone in age, our silicon has one third of the world average emissions calcumany other ways, as our customers have notably increased their lation, which is 12 kilogram CO2 per kilogram produced of silicon. Global Sustainability, energy demand and Increased standard of living, ageing and megatrends rapid urbanisation growing population, digitalisation Elkem’s Sustainable raw Sustainable Sustainable Sustainable Sustainable Sustainable solutions materials production products innovation and business employment Charcoal, Energy EVs, energy industry Value creation, Recruit and retain renewable recovery and storage, R&D, funding, compliance, employees, child energy – based efficiency, water construction and in front of corporate labour, forced on hydropower, management, buildings, health technology, build governance, labour, antisecure serious waste care, personal competence in social/local discrimination partners in management, care, electronics, employees community supply chain reduce emissions digital help, solar impact, anticells, wind mills corruption Elkem’s society Energy and environment Governance and compliance Attractive employer impact and the SDGs 33 SOCIETAL IMPACT ELKEM SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2019 Also, when calculating cradle-to-grave greenhouse gas emisPRODUCT STEWARDSHIP IN ELKEM sions of silicones, the production of silicon materials is the most Elkem works to ensure safe handling, use and disposal of our relevant contribution, as it accounts for 66% of total emissions products. Product stewardship is defined as responsible and profor silicones products. active management of health, safety and environmental aspects The regional origin of silicon materials therefore plays a sigof a product throughout its lifecycle. nificant factor for the CO2 emissions of silicone, because of the Elkem is committed to comply with international regulatory variation of electricity production in the different regions. Here, requirements and provides safety data sheets (SDS) for all prodElkem’s electricity mix will be a green comparative advantage ucts in accordance with UN Globally Harmonized System of Claswhen calculating LCAs. sification and Labelling of Chemicals (GHS). In all markets where Elkem provides products to the automotive industry. The big Elkem’s products are promoted, the products must meet speautomotive companies have strategies to evaluate and integrate cific requirements and comply with certain technical, regulatory, LCA in their development processes of cars, which impacts our health and environmental standards. deliveries. Elkem Silicon Materials is working on evaluating and This is especially important for our silicones division. Proacimproving the CO2 footprint of our products and will continue tive chemical management and protection of the environment to be an environmentally friendly provider of products to the and human health are fundamental prerequisites for conducting automo­tive industry in the future. our business and securing our licence to operate. Compliance There are CO2 emission abatement effects from the use with chemical product regulations include product registrations, of silicone products, reducing the end-life effect of silicones product authorisations, safety data sheets and product labels. versus competing materials. Silicone products enable more There are also industry specific regulations that Elkem complies efficient transport, contribute to lighter vehicles, reduce the with, for example regulations on products that are in contact with need for heating energy and electricity consumption and food and water (packaging) or healthcare (band aid/wound care). help increase efficiency. The features of silicones contribute In addition to complying with chemical production regulato extend material lifetime, ensure more efficient use of matetions, the Silicones division is a signatory to the Responsible Care rials, and can also replace oil-based plastic products, lowerGlobal Charter of the International Council of Chemical Associaing the carbon footprint in material production and recovery. tions (ICCA). Product stewardship is a key pillar of the ResponA study published by CES (Silicones Europe) in 2018 showed sible Care® programme, and by participating we are committed that the largest net-benefit of using silicones was found in to manage chemicals safely throughout product life cycles. This automotive, construction and solar energy applications, and includes both proactively identifying and managing chemical that compared to alternatives it is estimated that a net 48 risks and concerns throughout our operations and replacing subkilogram of CO2 equivalents abatement per kilogram of silistances in the portfolio that pose unacceptable risk to human cones applied. health, safety and environment. 34 ELKEM SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2019 SOCIETAL IMPACT With a portfolio of more than 4,000 different products that are used in a multitude of applications, regulatory and product Partnership for compliance is key for silicones. The document management system OSCAR has been implemented and ensures that compliance, certificates and regulatory statements are easily available for distribution to customers. Our customers have their own health, safety and environmen40 years tal requirements for their products. The majority of Elkem’s safety data sheets (SDS) are available for download on www.elkem.com. The Tana quartz mine has been The SDS for some selected products are only available on request, due to the protection of confidential business information. operating for more than 40 years. It is based in Austertana, a small COMMUNITY ENGAGEMENT AND DIALOGUE Input from local communities is valuable and helps us improve. community in the North of Norway. Important topics that have emerged from our dialogue with local communities include community development projects, A long-term and transparent dialogue with local job security, safe operations, emissions and other environmental stakeholders, such as local community organissues and traffic generated by the plant. Complaints raised by isations, local politicians and Sami reindeer local communities and traffic incidents related to our operations herders have been key activities to ensure conare registered and managed in accordance with good practices tinued operations. Elkem is currently looking into for incident and deviation management. More information on expanding our operations at the Tana mine, to Elkem’s procedures for handling external complaints is found in secure access to quartz after the current openthe governance and compliance chapter on page 92. cast is finished. In the application process for the Dialogue with local communities is the responsibility of each expansion, dialogue with the Sami reindeer herdplant or site manager and is carried out both formally and on ers have been initiated, as the reindeers migrate an informal day-to-day basis. It is the plant (or site) manager’s through the relevant area. Elkem’s ambition is to responsibility to be aware of all relevant stakeholders and engage reach an agreement with the relevant parties as in dialogue where relevant, such as when changes are happening soon as possible. In the application process, diaat the plant/site, and hold emergency training. logue with different stakeholders such as local Identifying relevant stakeholders and structuring an action community representatives and politicians to plan towards them is included in the certification of ISO 9001 – inform about the process, is also prioritised. quality management system. In addition, we have developed our own stakeholder tool for projects and plants. The tool was piloted in 2019 and is due to be implemented in 2020. ■ Summer school/camps Local community support ■ Cancer research programmes A number of Elkem plants have implemented local initiatives and ■ Safety training and first aid kits to local organisations support programmes. Elkem’s community support includes initi■ Poor family support programmes atives for better education and local infrastructure, sports activities, local community poverty reduction and food support, and Elkem’s expenditures related to community support amounted other social impact initiatives. to NOK 521,000 in Norway in 2019. A number of Elkem plants have local initiatives and support In 2019 we have worked on developing a universal guideline programmes. Our local initiatives and support programmes are on community support for all our local engagement. The pursubject to guidelines for what is permitted and what is not, to pose of the guideline is to assist local decision makers at our avoid corruption. Any financial support shall be given in a fully plants when they engage with local stakeholders in monetary open and transparent manner according to local legislation. It is or other formal support. The support guideline is based on the up to the local plant or unit to set goals and to evaluate the local principles of the UN Global Compact and, once implemented, community programme support. any support shall be based on these principles. The guideline is Examples of events or programmes that Elkem support locally due to be implemented in 2020. or regionally: Lobbying positions ■ Local sports clubs, both for children and adults Elkem seeks to obtain a satisfactory regulatory framework for all ■ Scholarships (high school and universities) its operations. In Europe, this entails a sufficient allocation of CO2 ■ School programmes with focus on building technology skills allowances as well as compensation for CO2 expenses in the power 35 SOCIETAL IMPACT ELKEM SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2019 Positioning for a battery revolution Electric vehicles’ increasing share of total car sales constitute a substantial opportunity to Elkem and has this far triggered an investment of NOK 65 million in a pilot plant for battery graphite. The lithium-ion battery market is expected to grow signifElkem will use the experience from operating the pilot icantly in the coming years and Elkem is currently exploras a basis for evaluating full-scale industrial production ing opportunities to capture on the growth trajectory. strategically located to serve the emerging European The forecast for 2030 is that anything between lithium-ion battery cell market, as the supply of anode 22 and 30% of the new sale of vehicles will be elecgraphite today is dominated by Asia based companies tric and there are strong growth projections for other A full-scale production facility will constitute a subsegments requiring battery technology and capacstantial business opportunity in a complex value chain ity , says Inge Grubben-Strømnes, Senior Vice Presfor high end products, where Elkem’s advantages include ident Carbon. a robust cost structure and a green footprint. Graphite is the dominating anode material in lithiThe aim of the pilot is to conclude process route um-ion battery cells and demand is expected to increase and qualify products. This is a natural step towards an more than ten times, from today’s annual level of 150,000 industrial line for battery graphite in Norway , says Grubto 200,000 tonnes over the next decade. ben-Strømnes. New production capacity is required in order to meet Elkem’s battery graphite activities have received the anticipated future demand, which is why Elkem has grants from Innovation Norway, The Research Council invested NOK 65 million in a new pilot plant for battery of Norway and the European Commission’s Horizon 2020 graphite. programme. 36 ELKEM SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2019 SOCIETAL IMPACT price. For Norway specifically, Elkem seeks a favourable outcome of For suppliers of goods and services such as hardware, plant the ongoing revision of the industrial grid tariff scheme, as well as equipment and services, the number of suppliers is high. Regular to limit the number of interconnectors between Norway and other audits are performed by plant personnel or corporate personnel, countries as this will likely increase the domestic power price. For focusing on supplies that are associated with risk. information about lobbying activities, please visit www.elkem.com. Relevant Elkem policies on responsible sourcing are: RESPONSIBLE SOURCING AND THE SUPPLY CHAIN ■ EHS and CSR approval of Elkem’s suppliers and business Elkem sources raw materials, capital goods and services for our partners: Outlines Elkem’s procedure for pre-qualification operations around the world. Elkem’s total procurement spend and management of suppliers. is approximately NOK 16 billion, covering supplies of raw mate■ Corporate standard for sourcing bio-carbon: Outlines rials, materials, energy, goods, services and logistics. The active Elkem’s commitment to sustainable forest management supply base consists of about 15,000 suppliers globally. and the requirements for procuring bio-based reductants Responsible sourcing is a strategic priority for Elkem. in Elkem. Responsible sourcing means looking at what we procure beyond the more traditional aspects such as cost, quality and delivCode of conduct for Elkem’s business partners ery time. It means that Elkem is committed to consider ethics, In October 2019, Elkem launched the code of conduct for Elkem’s labour rights, social and environmental issues when sourcing business partners (“the business partner code”). The business products and services across all procurement categories and partner code sets out Elkem’s expectations of our suppliers with across all operations. regards to ethics, labour rights and social and environmental issues. Procurement in Elkem We require all new suppliers to endorse the business partCorporate supply chain has the overall global responsibility for ner code and maintain their commitment throughout the reladeveloping and maintaining Elkem’s procurement and logistics strattionship. The business partner code is considered an integral egy, as well as Elkem’s global procurement policies and procedures. part of any agreement that regulates the relationship between Elkem’s procurement organisation is decentralised, with proElkem and a supplier. curement functions both at corporate level, at divisional and plant level. We further differentiate between procurement of EHS IN THE SUPPLY CHAIN raw materials, and procurement of indirect materials. Suppliers Elkem has developed detailed requirements for high risk suppliof raw materials are always considered critical suppliers, and supers and contractors regarding health, safety and environmental pliers of indirect materials may be considered critical, dependstandards for operations like mining, transportation, storage and ing on several factors. loading, and is actively involved in the promotion and monitoring of safe and decent working conditions. This includes health Supplier due diligence and screening against and safety training and providing correct personal protection environmental and social criteria equipment for suppliers’ employees when necessary. Age conThe procurement function is responsible for carrying out trol to prevent child labour and ensure responsible working conpre-qualification and risk assessments of suppliers based on ditions for young employees is also carried out. Elkem requires corporate requirements within environment, health and safety, suppliers and contractors to engage their employees with writsocial responsibility, anti-corruption and compliance with laws ten contracts on fair terms, and to give them information about and regulations. their right to organise and collectively bargain with management Where the risk is identified as high, additional due diligence where this is legally possible. (integrity due diligence) or on-site audits are required. Elkem’s requirements are regularly discussed in meetings with In 2019, 73% (ex. China) of new suppliers of raw material were suppliers. High-risk suppliers must document their understandscreened against environmental and social criteria. For high risk ing of legal requirements and hazards in their operations and suppliers, additional due diligence was conducted (integrity due dilpresent plans showing how risk will be eliminated or controlled igence). One supplier was excluded based on due diligence findings. while working for Elkem. Elkem performs audits and inspections, In 2020/2021, Elkem is updating its supplier due diligence both in connection with routine visits for quality, technical and process, aiming for a harmonised approach to screening using business follow-up, and as unannounced site visits. External audisocial criteria. All new suppliers will be screened against the toptors also conduct supplier audits on Elkem’s behalf. ics in the GRI 400 series. Violations of Elkem’s requirements are registered and addressed with verbal or written warnings in addition to requests SUPPLIER AUDITS for improvements when necessary. Repeated violations may The number of raw material suppliers is relatively low. A struclead to requirements for speedy implementation of improvetured auditing program is in place to ensure all suppliers receive ment plans, financial penalties, or termination of contracts with regular audits. immediate effect. 37 SOCIETAL IMPACT ELKEM SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2019 Strategic partnership with Achilles of our EHS audits. More information on our policies regarding In 2018, Elkem entered into partnership with supply chain risk child and forced labor can be found in the attractive employer management solution Achilles. A large portion of our Norwegian chapter on page 72. and Islandic suppliers are pre-qualified through this solution. As we grow and enter into new and challenging markets, Achilles also performs 10,000 audits per year. we see the need to take on a more systematic approach to our human rights strategy. We have therefore initiated a Human Continuous improvement Rights Impact Assessment (HRIA), where we work to identify As one of the world’s leading suppliers of silicon-based advanced Elkem’s actual impact and the risk of impact on human rights materials with operations throughout the value chain from quartz throughout our value chain. to specialty silicones, we are continually improving the way we Elkem recognises that human rights impact is constantly source our supplies. As Elkem is growing into new emerging marevolving. We are therefore committed to update our impact kets, we recognise the need to optimise, streamline and digitalassessment on a regular basis, or whenever external factors ise our supply chain management and run projects to improve or Elkem’s operations require it, for instance where we enter our capabilities to this end. new markets, develop new products or acquire new business entities. New harmonised process for supplier management In 2020/2021, Elkem will implement a global supplier manageHuman rights priorities ment system and introduce a new harmonized process for supBased on the HRIA, we will identify Elkem’s human rights priorplier prequalification, supply chain management, supply chain ities and launch a human rights action plan. In 2020, we are also risk management and contract management. launching a human rights training programme and developing a This will allow for a unified process for screening and vetting compliance monitoring programme on human rights. suppliers across all divisions and jurisdictions, tracking and monitoring suppliers’ compliance throughout the contract lifecycle, Grievance mechanisms as well as identifying and managing supplier risk. In accordance with the UN Guiding Principles on Business and Human Rights, Elkem is committed to remedy situations where HUMAN RIGHTS Elkem’s activities have caused or contributed to adverse human Elkem’s operations cover challenging markets such as China, rights impacts. If something is not right, Elkem wants to know Malaysia, Korea, India, South Africa, Russia, Brazil, Mexico and about it. That is why we have set up an external Speak up channel Paraguay. Human rights issues are often deeply embedded in that allows for anonymous reporting and engaging with stakethe local culture and can only be mitigated by engaging with holders. The Speak up channel is available to external stakeholdstakeholders, governments and local communities. ers through the Elkem webpage. Elkem is committed to the UN Guiding Principles on Business and Human Rights. We also respect and follow the requireHow we respond to adverse events ments of the UK Modern Slavery Act and the French Duty of Even with the best practices, a business may cause or contribVigilance Law. ute to an unforeseen adverse human rights impact that was not Compliance with these principles require Elkem to identify foreseen or which it was unable to prevent. In such events, Elkem and assess the human rights risks and impact of our operations will do its outmost to prevent or mitigate the impact: and our supply chain. Relevant Elkem policies on human rights include: ■ Where Elkem causes an adverse human rights impact, we take the necessary steps to cease or prevent ■ Elkem Code of Conduct: Expresses our respect for human the impact. and labour rights. ■ Where Elkem contributes to an adverse human ■ Elkem Code of Conduct for Business Partners: Requires rights impact, we take the necessary steps to cease our suppliers to commit to global human rights principles. or prevent our contribution and use our leverage to ■ Policy for Corporate Social Responsibility: Describes remediate any impact to the extent possible. how Elkem and the Social Corporate Responsibility (CSR) Whenever we have leverage to prevent or mitigate Committee is working to protect human rights and protect the adverse impact, we exercise it. workers’ rights. ■ Where we have no leverage, we terminate the relationship. Human rights impact assessment (HRIA) Our policies on human rights express our commitment to human When necessary, we consult externally with credible, inderights and how we work to protect human rights in Elkem and in pendent experts, including governments, civil society, national the supply chain. Human rights, and especially workers’ rights, human rights institutions and relevant multi-stakeholder initihave always been a top priority for Elkem, and an integral part atives. 38 ELKEM SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2019 SOCIETAL IMPACT Focus on CSR work pays off PT Kendi Arindo contributes to substantial values for local communities. Sumatera based PT Kendi Arindo (PTKA), having Elkem duction, PTKA is praised for sustainable utilisation of as main customer of charcoal for more than 25 years, resources, health, school and clean water programmes was last year awarded the Governor of South Sumatera and for maintaining roads and infrastructure. Provincial Government, CSR award in the Processing and The goal of the CSV programme is to encourage interManufacturing Industry. action between the population and those doing busiLocal communities are of great significance, not only ness in the area. to Elkem, but also for local partners which is why Elkem The jury points out crime reduction, reduced unemencourages suppliers to engage locally. ployment, and no forest fires as important results from PTKA was awarded the prize in competition with more the CSV programme from PTKA. than 100 companies. The jury particularly emphasises PTKA’s local initiatives are impressive and important. the company’s efforts on Creating Shared Value (CSV) To Elkem, PT Kendi plays an important role in our ambiincluding increased quality of life and positive long-term tion to increase the utilisation of sustainable biocarbon effects for the local communities. to 40% by 2030 , says Grim Terje Øberg, vice president In addition to assuring proper maintenance and proraw materials, Elkem Silicon Materials. 39 SOCIETAL IMPACT ELKEM SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2019 40 ELKEM SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2019 SOCIETAL IMPACT Status on D4/D5/D6 D4, D5 and D6 are most frequently used as key chemical intermediates and are typically present as very low impurities in end products. Octamethylcyclotetrasiloxane (D4), Decamethylcycloconcentrations are already consistent with predicted pentasiloxane (D5) and Dodecamethylcyclohexasiloxane post-restriction levels. D5 is near or at predicted post-re(D6) are the building blocks of silicone materials that prostriction concentrations. vide beneficial characteristics to a wide variety of applications and products across many sectors. Consequences of SVHC listing for downstream users In 2018, the European Chemicals Agency (ECHA) An SVHC listing is not a ban or a restriction on the use listed D4, D5 and D6 as Substances of Very High Conof D4, D5 and D6 as such. Nor is it a ban on the use of cern (SVHC), based on their properties. Based on the silicone polymers. same criteria’s, ECHA has also imposed a restriction on Silicone polymers can be used safely in all products. the concentration of D4, D5, and D6 in wash-off personal Silicone manufacturers will need to implement on site, care products, setting the limit at <0.1% of each of the and recommend to downstream users, risk managethree materials in the final product placed on the market. ment measures which minimise exposure and emissions, The silicones industry strongly believes that the SVHC throughout the lifecycle of the substance that results candidate listing and restriction of these substances are from the manufacture or identified use. disproportionate and unjustified, as the decision does The relevant Elkem European Safety Data Sheets not take full account of the whole body of scientific evi(SDS) have been updated as applicable (when the subdence available. stance(s) is (are) individually present at levels ≥ 0.1%). It is important to note that other countries such as SVHC attestations indicating D4, D5 or D6 content are Canada and Australia do not consider the risk to be sigalso available for applicable products. nificant and no concentration or product use restricThe data reported reflects the D4, D5 and D6 content tions have been proposed. Japan has moved D5 to the in the product as supplied by us and not after use and general chemicals list and consider restrictions to be curing by end user. In accordance with our strong comunnecessary, as the risk is not significant. Recent Euromitment to Responsible Care® and product stew­ardship, pean monitoring results from six waste-water treatment The Silicones division is actively working to imple­ment plants show that concentrations of D4 and D5 in influimprovements to our manufacturing processes that will ent to wastewater treatment plants are well below the reduce the final D4, D5 and D6 levels in its poly­mers predicted restriction baseline levels. In the case of D4, and products. 41 SOCIETAL IMPACT ELKEM SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2019 Silicone improves food crop yields, saves water and energy resources. Silicone antifoams are reducing waste in maximising food crop production and saving precious water and energy resources in industrial processes. Used in agrochemicals, water treatment and plastic recycling industries, silicone antifoams contribute greatly to circular economy initiatives by reducing waste. To meet the agricultural challenges to feed the and in can or tank mix adjuvants. Diminishing world, agrochemicals protect and enhance crop the dose of the active ingredients reduces polyields. The formulations often produce foam lution in crops and the mobility of actives in that hinders the efficiency and application on the soil. This increases farmers’ income through plants. higher crop yields and contributes to the slowSilcolapse™ silicone foam control agents and ing down of soil desertification and salinisation. Bluesil™ silicone surfactants enhance manufacLaboratory, greenhouse and field trials turing processes and improves productivity carried out in Hunan province in China and in by facilitating spreading and wetting perforNorway, Sweden and Russia have proved the mances on the plant. effectiveness of the foam control agents in All ingredients for crop and plant treatments improving crop quality and yield and reducare safe for people and the environment and ing environmental impact. In addition to the comply with national and international reguseries of products dedicated to agrochemilatory standards. The role of the silicone comcals, there are many solutions for application ponents is to “grow more with less”. They aid in water treatment and plastic recycling. These to reduce: con­tribute to circular economy initiatives by offering many of the same benefits as waste ■ the dose of active ingredients (nonreduction. silicone products) Civic and industrial companies, environ■ water consumption for the crop spraying mental service companies and wastewater operation treatment plants processes create foam. The ■ hazardous waste of residual crop spraying water-based solutions contain non-toxic, chemformulation ically inert silicones that are environmentally friendly with very low COD. Applied at very low The ingredients are used in a wide range doses, they are easy to use and provide durable of agrochemical applications and at all stages efficiency, enhancing process reliability for the in the manufacturing and growing process, as water treatment plant and ultimately reducing processing aids and formulation ingredients, water waste and energy consumption. 42 ELKEM SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2019 SOCIETAL IMPACT DID YOU KNOW that Elkem’s active supply base consists of approximately 15,000 suppliers globally? 43 GOVERNANCE AND COMPLIANCE ELKEM SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2019 Governance and compliance: Integrity in everything we do Elkem considers good corporate governance to be a prerequisite for value creation, trustworthiness and for access to capital. In order to secure strong and sustainable corporate governance, Elkem strives for good and healthy business practices, reliable financial reporting and an environment of compliance with legislation and regulations across the group. 3 substantiated misconduct ZERO ZERO 100% anti-competitive briberyand corruption All employees have reports resulting in practices identified incidents identified for confirmed their commitment disciplinary actions in 2019 for Elkem in 2019 Elkem in 2019 to the code of conduct 44 ELKEM SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2019 GOVERNANCE AND COMPLIANCE Targets – governance and compliance Unit 2017 2018 2019 Timeline Comments Total number of misconduct Number N/A N/A 6 Continuous reports received Number of substantiated N/A N/A 4 misconduct reports Number of substantiated N/A N/A 3 misconduct reports resulting in disciplinary actions Number of unsubstantiated N/A N/A 2 misconduct reports Adverse human rights events Number 0 0 0 Continuous identified in Elkem or in the supply chain Briberyand corruption Number 0 0 0 Continuous incidents identified for Elkem Anti-competitive practices Number 0 0 0 Continuous identified for Elkem Number of employees who Number Data not Data not 42 Continuous Online-training to received face-to-face antiavailible availible be implemented bribery and corruption training in 2020 Number of employees Number Data not Data not 373 Continuous Online-training to who received face-to-face availible availible be implemented competition law compliance in 2020 training % of employees who have % 100% 70% 100% Continuous For 2018, target confirmed their commitment to met, except for the Code of Conduct newly acquired Xinghou and Yongdeng plant in China % of employees in the target % 100% 70% 100% Continuous For 2018, target group who have confirmed their met, except for commitment to the Anti-bribery newly acquired and corruption policy Xinghou and Yongdeng plant in China % of employees in the target % 100% 70% 100% Continuous For 2018, target group who have confirmed their met, except for commitment to the Competition newly acquired law policy Xinghou and Yongdeng plant in China Revise policies available online Status N/A N/A Completed 2019 45 SECTION ELKEM SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2019 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE Risk management and internal control Elkem’s framework for corporate governance is outlined in It is ultimately the responsibility of the board of directors to Elkem’s corporate governance policy, which covers the instrucensure that Elkem has sound and appropriate internal control tions for the audit committee, the instructions for the nomination systems and risk management. To that end, the board of direccommittee, the instruction for the remuneration committee, rules tors conducts an annual review of the company’s most imporfor primary insiders and instructions for handling inside informatant areas of exposure to risk and such areas’ internal control tion. The document is reviewed annually by the board of direcarrangements. tors and was last amended on 21 October 2019. Operative management has ownership, responsibility and Elkem endorses the Norwegian Code of Practice for Corpoaccountability for directly assessing, controlling and mitigating rate Governance (“NUES” or the “Code”). The principles of the risk and assuring adequate internal controls. Management proCode are reflected in the corporate governance policy and in all vides frequent and relevant reporting of both operational and other governance documents. financial matters to the board of directors, ensuring that the board has adequate information for decision-making and can Governance documents: respond quickly to changing conditions. ■ Articles of association Corporate help chains, such as EHS, quality, product stew■ Corporate governance policy ardship, compliance, Corporate Social Responsibility (CSR), ■ Policy for corporate social responsibility legal, IT, finance and other control departments, oversee, facil■ Global code of conduct itate and report on the risk management activities of operative ■ Code of conduct for Elkem’s business partners management. ■ Speak up policy Due to Elkem’s size and risk exposure in China, Elkem ■ Anti-bribery and corruption policy has recently (2019), set up an Internal audit and compliance func■ Competition law compliance policy tion for Asia. The function reports to VP finance and accounting. 46 ELKEM SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2019 SECTION Audit Committee Global tool for external misconduct reporting The audit committee is a sub-committee of the board of direcIn 2019, Elkem rolled out an external Speak up channel for mistors and its objective is to act as a preparatory body in connecconduct reporting and updated the company’s Speak up policy. tion with the board’s supervisory roles with respect to financial The Speak up channel is available to all employees and allows for reporting and the effectiveness of the company’s internal conanonymous reporting in all Elkem languages. The policy gives trol system. clear guidance on how to report a concern. The CFO reports on Elkem’s internal control and compliance The Speak Up channel and the Speak up policy are available work to the audit committee of the board upon request, in coopand communicated through our intranet site, the Elkem weberation with VP finance and accounting, and General Counsel. page, through training and physical posters and handouts at For more information on Elkem’s internal control and risk plants and offices. management systems, please see the board of directors report This channel also functions as a grievance mechanism for and infor­mation on the investor relation pages on www.elkem. external stakeholders, such as suppliers, costumers, local comcom. munities where Elkem operates. The Speak up channel is available on the Elkem webpage and grievances can be reported in COMPLIANCE the several languages. In 2019, Elkem engaged a corporate compli­ance officer to lead the company’s compliance programme. The corporate compliHandling of misconduct reports ance officer reports to general counsel. Misconduct reports are handled by corporate compliance and Corporate compliance is further supported by the newly in accordance with applicable legislation on misconduct reportappointed internal audit and compliance function in China on ing. Elkem has a zero tolerance for retaliation against those who compliance and human rights issues. report a concern and will sanction those who retaliate. Network of compliance champions set up in 2019 TRAINING Corporate compliance is supported by a network of compli­ance Global online training programme champions across Elkem’s operations. The compliance champiElkem is committed to providing up-to-date, relevant and engagons are members of management or support functions, stationed ing compliance training. In 2020 Elkem will roll out a new global in each business unit, that assist the corporate compliance funconline training programme with relevant e-learning to all employtion in implementing Elkem’s compliance programme, including ees, including training in ethics, anti-bribery and corruption, and training and guidance to their respective units. anti-competitive practices. The training is refreshed on a regular basis, providing employees with new and updated content Corporate Social Responsibility Committee each year. Employees can choose to complete the training in all Elkem has a CSR committee, which is headed by Senior Vice key Elkem languages. President (SVP) HR with participants from key functions such as com­pliance, legal, EHS, communications, HR, procurement and Risk based face-to-face trainings sales. The committee meets on a regular basis and is tasked with The online training is supplemented by face-to-face trainings in promoting a culture that emphasises and sets high standards high risk jurisdictions and for high risk employee groups. The trainfor corporate social responsibility, as well as review of corporate ings are tailored to the specific risks and needs of the target group. performance against those standards. SVP HR is responsible for reporting CSR issues to the CEO and for reporting major issues ANTI-COMPETITIVE PRACTICES to the board of directors. Elkem is committed to avoiding anti-competitive practices across all operations. The competition law compliance policy outlines Compliance programme audit in 2020 what behaviour is considered acceptable or not. Elkem is committed to continuous improvement. As a measure To improve preventive measures a full overview of operato improve, Elkem will engage external consultants to conduct tions and employee groups that are most exposed and to what an independent assessment of the compliance programme in anti-competitive practices needs to be updated. We are therefore 2020. conducting an anti-competitive practice risk assessment to identify high risk jurisdictions and employee groups, as well as identiSPEAK UP CHANNEL fying red flags and mitigate gaps. The assessment is due in 2020. At Elkem, openness is key, and employees and stakeholders are encouraged to speak up if something is not right. Employees ANTI-BRIBERY AND CORRUPTION should feel free to discuss issues with management, or report Elkem has a zero-tolerance policy against corruption. Elkem has misconduct to HR or the legal/compliance department without multiple operations across jurisdictions and in several high-risk risk of facing consequences. countries. Elkem also deals with government officials for permits and other administrative issues. 47 GOVERNANCE AND COMPLIANCE ELKEM SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2019 In order to enhance the efficiency of Elkem’s internal controls Code of conduct for business partners and measures to prevent bribery and corruption, compliance is In 2019, Elkem rolled out a new code of conduct for busi­ness conducting an anti-bribery and risk assessment (ABC risk assesspartners, which builds on the global code of conduct, anti-corment) of the company’s global operations. The assessment is ruption policy, CSR policy and human rights policy. All new supdue 2020 and will form the basis for the anti-bribery and corpliers are required to commit to and sign the code to become ruption programme going forward. The 2020 assessment will business partners of Elkem. be updated on a regular basis and upon entering new markets and introducing new products. Third-party risk management system Bribery cases, human rights breaches, environmental disasters WORKING WITH BUSINESS PARTNERS and EHS scandals routinely involve business partners, such as It is important to Elkem to work with business partners of high agents, consultants, suppliers, joint venture partners and disethical integrity. Elkem does not accept bribery, environmentributors. In order to ensure that we handle the risk associated tal breaches, or human rights violations on behalf of our busiwith such business partners in an efficient way, Elkem is rollness partners. Relation managers are required to carry out the ing out a Third-party Risk Management System (TPRM). The adequate due diligence on business partners before entering system will allow for risk assessment of all business parties, the business relationship. In Norway and Island, suppliers are screening against sanction lists and adverse media, as well as required to prequalify through Achilles. risk based due diligence, audits and monitoring of business partners throughout their lifecycle. The system is due to be implemented in 2020/2021. 48 ELKEM SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2019 GOVERNANCE AND COMPLIANCE Elkem compliance champions We have launched a network of compliance champions , says corporate compliance officer Julie Leypoldt. Colleagues from a wide range of functions and geographical locations serve as compliance champions. They act as the “voice of compliance,” assisting in implementing compliance-lead initiatives and encouraging a Speak-up culture. They keep their ear to the ground, informing us of any developments that may be relevant from a Compliance perspective, escalating adverse events and identifying opportunities to share successes and lessons, Leypoldt explains. I am excited to represent our plant in the com­ pliance champion network for Americas , says procurement manager at Elkem Carbon Brazil, Antonio Passos. Business integrity is a vital part to success for all of Elkem's plants. Compliance champion: Antonio Passos, Elkem Carbon Brazil. That is why I am looking forward to sharing expe­ riences with other members of the Americas and global compliance champion network going for­ ward , Passos adds. 49 GOVERNANCE AND COMPLIANCE ELKEM SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2019 50 ELKEM SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2019 GOVERNANCE AND COMPLIANCE Speak up to misconduct Elkem is upgrading the misconduct reporting system for all employees and partners. Corporate compliance officer Julie Leypoldt has led You can choose your own language and either record Elkem’s Speak up project, which now is being rolled out a voice or written message. The message will be transglobally. lated to English and sent to the compliance department. Elkem has undergone an important change in recent Compliance will be able to communicate with the sender years and has become a truly global company. We saw in their native language. Our response will be translated the need to set up a single visible channel that people back to the language of the sender , says Leypoldt. can reach out to in their local language. We want to One important aspect of the service is that the person make sure that everybody knows where to turn if they can choose to remain anonymous, also towards the comwitness mis­conduct , says Leypoldt. pliance department. The reporter will receive an access Misconduct reporting, that is reporting unacceptable code and can log on to the system to follow up on the circumstances in the business to anyone who can do case and will not be required to leave their name or consomething about it, can constitute an important resource tact information. for organisations. In some cases, employees will not feel comfortable Elkem encourages its 6,370 employees and external discussing the matters with local management, maybe parties to report possible dishonest or illegal conduct because the management is involved, or simply because in the business. the employee wishes to remain unidentified. We think We prefer to talk about speaking up. We encourage that the chances of getting information increases with employees to discuss ethical issues freely and report this solution , says Leypoldt. when something is not right,” says Leypoldt. The awareness around the Speak up channel is to be In order to assure that issues of concern reach top man­ increased primarily through internal communication agement, the Compliance function has engaged an extermethods, such as intranet, trainings, posters and businal service provider. ness cards. The external partner provides a software service that The posters will be installed at the physical premises, will be accessible to all employees and partners. Employand we will print business cards that employees can take ees can access the service through the intranet pages, home, all of which will be available in different languages. and suppliers and other stakeholders through the Elkem Rollout of the posters and business cards started in the web page. end of 2019 and will continue through first half of 2020 , according to the compliance officer. 51 GRI INDEX ELKEM SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2019 GRI index 2019 Elkem ASA's ambition is to report according to the CORE guidelines set by the Global Reporting Initiative. The sustainability report was part of the annual report in 2019. Reference to pages in the sustainability report will therefore also be found in the annual report, but not mentioned in the index specifically. When referencing to the annual report, this is additional information and references than what is to be found in the sustainability report. For the most recent information about our sustainability work, please see our website: www.elkem.com/sustainability. For information about principles and criterions of UN Global Compact and the UN Sustainable Development Goals, see below the index. The complete sustainability report for 2019 is available on Elkem.com. General standard disclosures GRI Description Page reference and information Other references UN SDG: United indicator SR: Sustainability report Nations Sustainable Development AR: Annual report Goals. UN GC: United Nations Global WEB: www.elkem.com Compact Strategy GRI 102-14 Statement from senior decisionSR: p. 4 UN SDG: SDG 16, SDG 17 UN GC: maker Criterion 1, 15, 19 Organisational profile GRI 102-1 Name of the organisation Elkem ASA Organisational information GRI 102-2 Activities, brands, products, and SR: p. 2-3 Organisational information services AR: p. 2-5 WEB: https://www.elkem.com/our-divisions/ GRI 102-3 Location of the headquarters Oslo, Norway Organisational information GRI 102-4 Location of operations AR: p. 10-17 Organisational information WEB: www.elkem.com/contact GRI 102-5 Ownership and legal form AR: p. 3, p. 21, p. 108 Organisational information WEB: https://www.elkem.com/about-elkem/ GRI 102-6 Markets served AR: p. 8, p. 10-17 Organisational information 52 ELKEM SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2019 GRI INDEX GRI 102-7 The scale of the organisation. SR: p. 2-3 Organisational information AR: p. 2-3, p. 4, 10-17 GRI 102-8 Information on employees and SR: p. 2-3. WEB: https://www.elkem.com/ UN SDG: SDG 5 UN GC: Principle 6 other workers career/ GRI 102-9 Supply chain SR: p. 37-38 UN GC: Principle 2, 9, 10; Criterion 2 GRI 102-10 Significant changes to the AR: p. 5, p. 6-8, p. 24-25 Organisational information organisation and its supply chain GRI 102-11 Precautionary Principle or Elkem is a signatory to the UN Global UN GC: Principle 7 approach Compact, and thereby respects and adheres to the precautionary principle (Principle 7). WEB: https://www.elkem.com/ sustainability/ GRI 102-12 External initiatives SR: p. 12 EB: https://www.elkem.com/ UN SDG: SDG 16 UN GC: Criterion sustainability/ 17-18 GRI 102-13 Memberships of associations SR: p. 29-30 UN SDG: SDG 16, SDG 17 UN GC: Elkem is a member of the Norwegian Criterion 17-18 Federation of Industries and the European industry organisations Euroalliages, Eurometaux, the European chemical industry council (CEFIC) and other national industry organisations. For additional information, visit Elkem.com. Ethics and integrity GRI 102-16 Values, principles, standards, AR: p.30 UN SDG: SDG 3, SDG 4, SDG 8, SDG and norms of behaviour WEB: https://www.elkem.com/about9 UN GC: Principle 10; Criterion 4-8, elkem/corporate-governance/Governing12-14 documents-and-tools/, https://www.elkem.com/about-elkem/ vision-and-values/ Governance GRI 102-18 Governance structure SR 10, 47 and AR 34-37. UN GC: Criterion 1, 20 Stakeholder engagement GRI 102-40 List of stakeholder groups. SR: p. 9 UN SDG: SDG 17 UD GC: Criterion 21 EB: https://www.elkem.com/sustainability/ our-stories/ GRI 102-41 Collective bargaining SR: p. 31 UN SDG: SDG 8 UN GC: Principle 3 agreements GRI 102-42 Identifying and selecting SR: p. 8, 9 UN SDG: SDG 17 UN GC: Criterion 21 stakeholders GRI 102-43 Approach to stakeholder SR: p. 11, p. 35 SDG: SDG 17 UN GC: Criterion 21 engagement GRI 102-44 Key topics and concerns raised SR: p. 9 UN SDG: SDG 17 UN GC: Criterion 21 53 GRI INDEX ELKEM SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2019 Report practice GRI 102-45 Entities included in the AR: p. 8-17, p. 111. GRI report information consolidated financial WEB: https://www.elkem.com/ourstatements divisions/ GRI 102-46 Defining report content and SR: p. 7-8. With this Sustainability report, GRI report information topic boundaries Elkem wishes to provide accurate and understandable information of the highest quality and materiality in a way that enables stakeholders to make informed decisions and compare changes over time. Both positive and negative aspects of the company's impact on society and the environment is communicated. GRI 102-47 List of material topics SR: 8 GRI report information Compliance Occupational health and safety Energy efficiency Anti-corruption Diversity and equality Water management Waste management GRI 102-48 Restatements of information The material topics have been evaluated GRI report information internally and externally after listing on The Oslo Stock Exchange in 2018. GRI 102-49 Changes in reporting SR: p. 7-8 GRI report information GRI 102-50 Reporting period Calendar year of 2019 GRI report information GRI 102-51 Date of most recent previous March 2019 GRI report information report GRI 102-52 Reporting cycle Annual GRI report information GRI 102-53 Contact point for questions Hans Iver Odenrud, hio@elkem.com GRI report information regarding the report GRI 102-54 Claims of reporting in This report has been prepared in GRI report information accordance with the GRI accordance with the GRI Standards: Core Standards option. GRI 102-55 GRI content index The GRI content index is available on our GRI report information website www.elkem.com/sustainability and on www.globalreporting.org GRI 102-56 External assurance The sustainability report is not externally GRI report information assured. 54 ELKEM SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2019 GRI INDEX Specific standard disclosure GRI Description Page reference and information SR: Other references UN SDG: United indicator Sustainability report AR: Annual report Nations Sustainabile Development WEB: www.elkem.com Goals, UN GC: United Nations Global Compact Governance and compliance GRI 103-01 Explanation of the material topic SR: p. 7-8: Elkem reports for our own GRI report information and its boundary operations, agents and distributors doing business with Elkem’s products. GRI 103-02 The management approach and SR: p. 45-47 GRI report information its components GRI 103-03 Evaluation of the management SR: p. 45-47 GRI report information approach GRI 102-29 Identifying and managing SR: p. 46-47 economic, environmental, and social impacts AR: p. 31 UN GC: Criterion 1 GRI 102-32 Highest governance body’s role SR: p. 46-47 UN GC: Criterion 1, 20 in sustainability reporting GRI 205-3 Confirmed incidents of SR: p. 45, 47-48 UN SDG: SDG 8, SDG 16 UN GC: corruption and actions taken Principle 10; Criterion 12-14 GRI 406-1 Incidents of discrimination and SR: p. 28 UN SDG: SDG 5, SDG 8, SDG 16 UN corrective actions taken GC: Principle 6; Criterion 3-5 GRI 419-1 Non-compliance with laws and SR: p. 44-47 UN SDG: SDG 16, SDG 17 UN GC: regulations in the social and Principle 1, principle 10; Criterion economic area 12-14 Attractive employer GRI 103-1 Explanation of the material topic SR: p. 7-8: Elkem reports for our own GRI report information and its boundary operations, agents and distributors doing business with Elkem’s products. GRI 103-2 The management approach and SR: p. 45-47 GRI report information its components GRI 103-3 Evaluation of the management SR: p. 45-47 GRI report information approach GRI 401-1 New employee hires and SR: p. 28-30. Additional reporting planned UN SDG: SDG 5, SDG 8 UN GC: employee turnover for 2020. Principle 6 GRI 404-3 Percentage of employees SR: p. 27-31 UN SDG: SDG 4, SDG 8 UN GC: receiving regular performance Criterion 8 and career development reviews 55 SECTION ELKEM SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2019 GRI 403-9 Work-related injuries SR: p. 26 UN SDG: SDG 3, SDG 8, SDG 12 UN GC: Principle 4; Criterion 8 GRI 403-10 Work-related ill health SR: p. 26-28 UN SDG: SDG 3, SDG 8, SDG 12 UN GC: Principle 4; Criterion 8 GRI 405-1 Diversity of governance bodies SR: p. 28. UN SDG: SDG 5, SDG 8, SDG 10, SDG and employees. AR: p 42-44 16 UN GC: Principle 6; Criterion 6 Website: https://www.elkem.com/aboutelkem/Corporate-management-andBoard-of-directors/. Additional reporting planned for 2020. Energy and environment GRI 103-1 Explanation of the material topic SR: p. 14-15: Elkem reports for our own GRI report information and its boundary. operations. Joint ventures are reported in full. GRI 103-2 The management approach and SR: p.14-15 GRI report information its components. GRI 103-3 Evaluation of the management SR: p.14-21 GRI report information approach. GRI 302-1 Energy consumption within the SR: p.15-16 UN SDG: SDG 7, SDG 9, SDG 12, SDG organisation. 13, SDG 15 UN GC: Principles 7-9 ; Criterion 9-11 GRI 302-4 Reduction of energy SR: p.14-19 UN SDG : SDG 7, SDG 13 UN GC: consumption Principle 7-9 ; Criterion 9-11 GRI 303-5 Water consumption SR: p. 19 UN SDG : SDG 6 UN GC: Principle 7 GRI 305-7 Nitrogen oxides, sulphur SR: p. 17-21, p.22 UN SDG: SDG 3 UN GC: Principles oxides and other significant air 7-9; Criterion 9-11 emissions GRI 306-3 Significant spills SR: p. 15,21 UN SDG: SDG 9, SDG 12 UN GC: Principles 7-9; Criterion 9-11 Sociatal impact GRI 103-1 Explanation of the material topic SR: p. 32: Elkem reports for our own GRI report information and its boundary operations, agents and distributors doing business with Elkem’s products. GRI 103-2 The management approach and SR: p. 32-33 GRI report information its components GRI 103-3 Evaluation of the management SR: p. 32-33 GRI report information approach GRI 412-2 Employee training on human SR: p. 32 UN SDG: SDG 3, SDG 4, SDG 13, SDG rights policies or procedures 16* UN GC: Principles 1-2; Criterion 4 GRI 414-1 New suppliers that were SR: p. 32. All new suppliers are screened UN SDG: SDG3, SDG 8, SDG 12 UN screened using social criteria using social criteria GC: Principle 1-6, 10; Criterion 2 56 ELKEM SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2019 SECTION GRI 308-1 New suppliers that were SR: p. 32. All new suppliers are screened UN SDG: SDG 6, SDG 7, SDG 8 UN screened using environmental using social criteria GC: Principle 7-9; Criterion 10 criteria GRI 408-1 Operations and suppliers at SR: p. 31 UN SDG: SDG 8, SDG 16 UN GC: significant risk for incidents of Principle 5; Criterion 6-8 child labour GRI 409-1 Operations and suppliers at SR: p. 31 UN SDG: SDG 5, SDG 8 UN GC: significant risk for incidents of Principle 4; Criterion 6-8 forced or compulsory labour The UN Global Compact ten principles HUMAN RIGHTS ■ Principle 1: Businesses should support and respect the ENVIRONMENT protection of internationally proclaimed human rights; and ■ Principle 7: Businesses should support a precautionary ■ Principle 2: make sure that they are not complicit in human approach to environmental challenges; rights abuses. ■ Principle 8: undertake initiatives to promote greater environmental responsibility; and LABOUR ■ Principle 9: encourage the development and diffusion of ■ Principle 3: Businesses should uphold the freedom of environmentally friendly technologies. association and the effective recognition of the right to collective bargaining; ANTI-CORRUPTION ■ Principle 4: the elimination of all forms of forced and ■ Principle 10: Businesses should work against corruption in compulsory labour; all its forms, including extortion and bribery. ■ Principle 5: the effective abolition of child labour; and ■ Principle 6: the elimination of discrimination in respect of For more information about the UN Global Compact, see https:// employment and occupation. www.unglobalcompact.org The UN Global Compact 21 advanced criteria IMPLEMENTATION OF THE TEN PRINCIPLES INTO LABOUR STRATEGIES AND OPERATIONS ■ Criterion 6: The COP describes robust commitments, ■ Criterion 1: The COP describes mainstreaming into strategies and policies in the area of labour. corporate functions and business units. ■ Criterion 7: The COP describes effective management ■ Criterion 2: The COP describes value chain systems to integrate the labour principles. implementation. ■ Criterion 8: The COP describes effective monitoring and evaluation mechanisms of labour principles integration. HUMAN RIGHTS ■ Criterion 3: The COP describes robust commitments, ENVIRONMENT strategies and policies in the area of human rights. ■ Criterion 9: The COP describes robust commitments, ■ Criterion 4: The COP describes effective management strategies and policies in the area of environmental systems to integrate the human rights principles. stewardship. ■ Criterion 5: The COP describes effective monitoring and ■ Criterion 10: The COP describes effective management evaluation mechanisms of human rights integration. systems to integrate the environmental principles. ■ Criterion 11: The COP describes effective monitoring and evaluation mechanisms for environmental stewardship. 57 GRI INDEX ELKEM SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2019 ANTI-CORRUPTION ■ Criterion 12: The COP describes robust commitments, strategies and policies in the area of anti-corruption. ■ Criterion 13: The COP describes effective management systems to integrate the anti-corruption principle. ■ Criterion 14: The COP describes effective monitoring and evaluation mechanisms for the integration of anticorruption. TAKING ACTION IN SUPPORT OF BROADER UN GOALS AND ISSUES ■ Criterion 15: The COP describes core business contributions to UN goals and issues. ■ Criterion 16: The COP describes strategic social investments and philanthropy. ■ Criterion 17: The COP describes advocacy and public engagement. ■ Criterion 18: The COP describes partnerships and collective action CORPORATE SUSTAINABILITY GOVERNANCE AND LEADERSHIP ■ Criterion 19: The COP describes CEO commitment and leadership. ■ Criterion 20: The COP describes Board adoption and oversight. ■ Criterion 21: The COP describes stakeholder engagement. 58 Elkem ASA Visiting address: Postal address: T: +47 22 45 01 00 Drammensveien 169 P.O. Box 334 Skøyen F: +47 22 45 01 55 0277 Oslo, Norway NO-0213 Oslo www.elkem.com
