COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS 2019 TABLE OF CONTENT WORD FROM OUR CHIEF EXECUTIVE OFFICER p3 ABOUT ARAYMOND p4 ARAYMOND, A WORLD LEADER IN FASTENING AND ASSEMBLY SOLUTIONS p5 OUR KNOW-HOW p6 A WIDE RANGE OF MARKETS p7 INNOVATION IS IN OUR DNA p 10 OUR COMPANY CORE VALUES p 11 OUR CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSABILITY VISION p 12 THE FOUNDATIONS OF OUR GLOBAL CSR APPROACH p 13 OUR CSR GOVERNANCE STRUCTURE p 14 HUMAN RIGHTS AND LABOR: PRINCIPLES FROM 1 TO 6 p 15 2019 Human resources yearly reporting p 16 ARaymond & Servant Leadership p 19 ARaymond employee satisfaction survey 2018 p 22 Servant facilitator training: how to increase collaboration on global and local level p 23 Non-Violent Communication trainings p 24 People trained over the ARaymond Network p 25 Safety into action p 26 Diversity into action p 29 Making a difference through community outreach p 32 Duty of care p 32 ARaymond European Works council into action p 33 ENVIRONMENT: PRINCIPLES FROM 7 TO 9 p 35 We design sustainable solutions p 36 Actions and results p 37 Araymond & Tree-nation p 38 Doing business the right way p 39 ANTI-CORRUPTION: PRINCIPLE 10 p 40 CONTACTS p 41 WORD FROM OUR CHIEF EXECUTIVE OFFICER Antoine RAYMOND CEO THE ARAYMOND NETWORK LINKS 7500 PEOPLE IN 25 COUNTRIES. Our enterprise aim is to link people through a meaningful and beautiful entrepreneurial adventure. We want to be useful generating added value for our collaborators, our customers, our partners, and all people and communities concerned by our activities. We are responsible of our precious unique and fragile planet, its life diversity and all human beings. In our enterprise each person is a person, each role matters, and we believe in the efficiency of individual engagement in strong collaborative mode reinforced by shared values. We believe in the power of peace in economy and the virtuous circle generated by the “Symetry of Attentions” for a stronger sustainability of our world and our enterprise. For years we develop and extend our “Servant Leadership” and “Non violent Communication” trainings and practices worldwide. We actively participate in the professorship and academic research program on Peace in Economy and mindfulness of Grenoble Ecole de Management. We are actively setting up our Corporate Social Responsability policy worldwide, and our compliance policy in line with the French “Sapin 2” regulation is set in force globally. We continue to develop our international environmental initiative to promote «Eco Design”, “Eco Conception” and “Circular Economy”. All new buildings and constructions we do anywhere in the world have to be “LEED” certified. We are deploying everywhere our ARaymond Total Management System program in order to increase the direct contribution and participation of each collaborator to make them actors of our continuous improvement and Lean organization policy. We encourage and develop locally charity initiatives linked to education, social and professional integration. All those initiatives, and actions are fully supported by the 45 members of our Executive Committee, composed of all subsidiary Managing Directors, all Corporate Officers, and the Presidency of our Network Enterprise. ARaymond has been a supportive member of the Global Compact since 2003 and renews its commitment for 2020. 3 ABOUT ARaymond With more than 7,000 employees in 25 countries around the world, the ARaymond Network designs, manufactures and markets assembly and fastening systems. Created in 1865 and the inventor of the press-stud, this family business based in Grenoble, France, has always put human values at the heart of its success. ARaymond, based on the conviction that the wellbeing and empowerment of its collaborators is essential to its continued success and development, has chosen an inclusive management model founded on trust and respect: the Servant Leadership. Guided by innovation and value creation, the ARaymond Network is today one of the global leaders in fastening and assembly solutions for the automotive market. 7250 €1.2 BN employees 2019 revenue CLOSE TO OUR CUSTOMER EVERYWHERE Over recent years, the ARaymond Network has invested in the construction of more and more manufacturing sites and Advanced Research and Development centers around the world to ensure that it remains physically close to its customers. We don’t outsource production of our components. We have made the conscious decision to manufacture locally for domestic markets. 25 27 countries manufacturing plants 4 ARaymond, A WORLD LEADER IN FASTENING AND ASSEMBLY SOLUTIONS From press-studs to fasteners for the automotive market and solar panel fastening systems, the story of ARaymond is the story of a family and a team of entrepreneurs driven by the desire to innovate and work meaningfully together to serve a wide range of sectors. Identifying high-potential new markets in which we can apply our expertise and innovation skills to the full has been the guiding principle for our operational expansion to date. Guided by innovation since decades, we use our know-how in engineering and assembly of metal and plastic to find smart innovative solutions for a wide range of other industries. FASTENING AND ASSEMBLY EXPERTISE The ARaymond™ brand is recognized in the automotive industry for its tool-free clipping assembly solutions and Quick Connectors. Where traditional mechanical fastening and assembly prove too complex, ARaymond develops innovative bonding solutions to address the latest automotive industry assembly trends. SMART CLIPPING Providing clipping solutions using injection-molded plastic, metal or combined-material clips is the core business of ARaymond. Our easy-toassemble screwless solutions are the smart alternative to conventional screw or bolt assembly, and help to reduce production costs. SECURED FLUID CONNECTION ARaymond Quick Connectors provide a fast and secure connection for all types of fluid delivery system. The connectors are compact, short and easy to use. Our comprehensive range of Quick Connectors helps to reduce the number of components and assembly steps, at the same time as lowering costs. UNRIVALLED BONDING SOLUTIONS Bonding is a mounting technique suitable for situations where traditional mechanical fastening is difficult. We offer a complete service that includes analyzing current production process to identify the most appropriate adhesive and equipment. Once the process is in place, we provide maintenance, logistics, training and support for as long as the solution is in use. 5 OUR KNOW-HOW INDUSTRIAL EXCELLENCE Over our long history, we have mastered the technologies and tools needed to address the fastening and assembly challenges of a very broad spectrum of industries. METAL PROCESSING ARaymond has industry-leading knowledge and experience of major metal transformation processes, including cutting, bending, and stamping. Our plants worldwide handle design, production, surface treatment and quality control inhouse. PLASTIC INJECTION From high-volume injection to continuous injection and bi-material injection on the same machine, we run molding processes compatible with more than 300 thermoplastic materials in-house. ADHESIVE TECHNOLOGY ARaymond has developed a proprietary adhesive technology, and produces the adhesive in its own facilities. The adhesive and associated fasteners are ideal for materials that are difficult to drill or weld, such as glass, composites and painted metal. ASSEMBLY PROCESSES Our manufacturing plants are equipped to handle manual, semi-automated, cycle-time optimized automated assembly and motion assembly to meet customer needs. Providing complete assembly solutions With our in-depth knowledge of a wide range of fastening and assembly solutions backed by expertise in chemical, mechanical, and industrial engineering, we provide an end-to-end service that delivers optimal assembly solutions tailored to the unique needs of our customers. Our Bonding Solutions Architects are a great example. They begin by analyzing the unique demands of your production line and your target results as the basis for recommending the best-possible system. They also supply the necessary robots, machinery and adhesives, backed up with training and user support. We partner with our customers every step of the way to ensure that their bonding solutions deliver maximum performance and satisfaction throughout their lifetime. 6 A WIDE RANGE OF MARKETS Identifying new markets that recognize expertise and the potential for innovation has been the common thread of ARaymond business development throughout its history. As one of the world’s fastening and assembly solutions providers to the automotive industry, the ARaymond Network has gradually transposed its expertise and skills to new markets: Trucks, Industrial, Energy, Agriculture and Life. AUTOMOTIVE & COMMERCIAL VEHICLES: OUR CORE BUSINESS ARaymond’s fastening, bonding and connecting expertise spans a broad range of automotive applications, including car body trim, power distribution systems, powertrain, fluid handling systems and glazing. We also offer specific solutions for commercial vehicle, off-road vehicle, heavy-duty machinery and industrial and equipment manufacturers. For more information: www.araymond-automotive.com 7 A wide range of Markets INDUSTRIAL MARKETS ARaymond Industrial offers fastening solutions that streamline the assembly of manufactured products like domestic appliances, HVAC equipment, industrial machinery, consumer goods and lighting to meet the needs unique to these markets. For more information: www.araymond-industrial.com CLIPPING SOLUTIONS FOR SOLAR ENERGY ARaymond Energies provides the solar energy market with cost-effective clipped fastening solutions. We design screwless, tool-free solutions that make photovoltaic panel assembly and installation faster, easier, and more reliable. For more information: www.araymond-energies.com 8 A wide range of Markets FASTENING SOLUTIONS FOR CROPS ARaymond Agriculture designs and manufactures innovative, value-added, environmentally-friendly fastening solutions for greenhouse crops, tree nurseries and vineyards. Our innovative smart fasteners help growers simplify their processes, maximize yields, and reduce labor costs. For more information: www.araymond-agriculture.com PHARMACEUTICAL PACKAGING ARaymond Life develops and manufactures innovative custom packaging solutions for pharmaceutical, medical and cosmetics companies. For more information: www.araymond-life.com 9 INNOVATION IS IN OUR DNA Ingenuity and creativity are part of our DNA. We are proud to bring the most advanced value-added parts and solutions to the market and to deliver effective responses to the unique needs of our customers’ assembly processes and applications. Our innovation specialists and engineers are constantly exploring new and emerging trends such as new and lightweight materials, digital technologies, and mechatronics. INNOVATION AT ARaymond 445 inventions currently patented More than 1000 new fastening solutions created in 2019 6% of annual revenue invested in R&D 10 OUR COMPANY CORE VALUES PEOPLE DRIVE VALUE CREATION In line with our core values, Respect, Collaboration, Innovation, Entrepreneurial Spirit, Value Creation, and Pleasure, we use a “Servant Leader” management approach. This type of leadership places itself at the service of its teams and encourages supportive listening to stimulate talents and reinforce collaboration. “ Employee engagement is of the utmost importance. Our employees’ know-how and creativity have kept us innovating for more than 150 years. Antoine Raymond, CEO, ARaymond Network ” 11 OUR CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSABILITY VISION ARaymond has a longstanding history of social, societal and environmental engagements. However, as the company has grown over the past years, the need for a more structured and focused Corporate Social Responsibility (CSR) approach for the entire Network, delivering greater social impacts, has emerged. For this reason, ARaymond has launched, late 2018, a project aiming to build a global CSR strategy. Because there is no « off-the-shelf » CSR approach, because CSR touches a wide variety of topics and stakeholders, and because we want to embed CSR into our business model, we believe that building our CSR strategy and making it operational is a journey of iterations. Sustainability is already part of the company’s DNA, creating shared and sustainable value is at the core of our intents. We aim to develop a purposeful CSR strategy that: • Flows from ARaymond’ unique family-ownership, culture and values, permeates the business strategy, engages across the Network and creates pride for employees, • Drives system changes and business models transitions, answering our external stakeholders’ expectations (customers, partners, suppliers, communities), • Address major social or environmental challenges our world faces, contributing to the Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs). COMPANY VALUES, AMBITIONS & STRATEGY CSR STAKEHOLDERS’ EXPECTATIONS WORLD’S CHALLENGES 12 THE FOUNDATIONS OF OUR GLOBAL CSR APPROACH 2019 has been the year of building the foundations on which the global CSR approach will develop, around an agreed definition of “CSR for ARaymond” and of the commitment «Think Global, Act Local». 2019 SETTING THE CSR FRAME SELECTION OF 14 MATERIAL PEOPLE TOPICS 1. Caring about our people Our Executive Committee together with the CSR 2. Growing together team has selected 14 CSR issues of importance 3. Social dialogue for the ARaymond Network, derived from the international guidance on social responsibility PLANET ISO 26000, based on our management strategies, 4. Environmental footprint and taking into consideration main industry and 5. “Green solutions” societal trends. These 14 Issues, organized around 5 pillars, constitute the starting frame of our CSR PRODUCTS & SOLUTIONS approach, which may evolve as we progress in its 6. Customer relationships construction and deployment. STAKEHOLDERS & SOCIETY STRUCTURATION OF CSR 7. Awareness on Human Rights GOVERNANCE TEAMS 8. Compliance • Committees defined & Members nominated 9. Ethical model beyond compliance • Roles, Accountabilities & Ways of Working agreed 10. Sustainable purchasing • All members attended an initial training on CSR 11. Local involvement 12. Volunteering & sponsorship CSR Strategic Committee CSR Operational Committee GOVERNANCE CSR Correspondent Network 13. CSR alignment 14. CSR management system RECRUITMENT OF ARAYMOND GLOBAL CSR MANAGER Carole Neyrinck joined in October 2019 to define and lead the CSR approach for the ARaymond Network, and lead the CSR governance. She reports to Antoine Raymond, CEO. 2020 DESIGN THE CSR ROADMAP • Continue to Strengthen the CSR frame with external stakeholders’ input and clear contribution to the SDGs • Develop action plans, implement iniitiatives & KPIs • Communicate internally & externally on CSR approach. 13 OUR CSR GOVERNANCE STRUCTURE 2020 MEMBERSHIP ROLE & ACCOUNTABILITIES • Represents ARaymond Executive Committee (EXCO) in providing strategic orientations Five Corporate Officers and for CSR and reports back on CSR progress to six Managing Directors, CSR Strategic EXCO. representing all regions Committee • Validates CSR strategy, ambitions, objectives, Chaired by Global CSR roadmap, before EXCO final approval. Fosters Manager CSR roll-out across the ARaymond Network and allocate means for CSR implementation. Twelve Managers and Coordinators from key functions • Builds the CSR strategy and breaks it down (Purchasing, Communicainto actionable ambitions, objectives and tion, Risks & Compliance, actions plans Human Resources, Informa• Coordinates the deployment of CSR witCSR tion Technology, Finance, hin and outside the ARaymond Network, Operational Environment, Health and empowering CSR Correspondents Committee Safety, Legal, European Works • Monitors CSR performance, trends and Council, Business Excellence, stakeholders’ expectations Engineering, Business Development) • Builds CSR knowledge and communicates Chaired by Global CSR to drive engagement Manager • Relays the global CSR objectives at the local level and acts in support of the CSR OperaCSR 23 correspondents representional Committee in the deployment of the Correspondent ting ARaymond entities and action plans. Network expertise in 17 countries • Coordinates local CSR actions, shares good practices with peers and reports on progress 14 HUMAN RIGHTS AND LABOR: PRINCIPLES FROM 1 TO 6 At ARaymond, we strongly believe that we can achieve both wellbeing and economic performance at the same time. We care deeply about people, the planet, and our collective future. Our commitments are clearly outlined in our official policies and codes. Above all, these commitments underpin our relationships with our employees, our communities, and the environment. “ The first and the most fundamental ingredient of a company is the Human Being who is at the heart of the company and ARaymond strives to be a machine for weaving the human bond… Discover the full speech of Antoine Raymond during the 5th edition of InnoGeneration organized by BPI ” France, the biggest meetup of entrepreneurs in Europe. H T T P S : / / W W W. Y O U T U B E . C O M / WA T C H ? V = 4 5 L H Y 5 D W PA K 15 Human Rights and Labor: Principles from 1 to 6 2019 HUMAN RESOURCES YEARLY REPORTING Age & Gender distribution: ARaymond Network 2019 AGE PYRAMID 2018 AGE PYRAMID 2019 16 Human Rights and Labor: Principles from 1 to 6 2019 HUMAN RESOURCES YEARLY REPORTING Average age and seniority by position level 2019 17 Human Rights and Labor: Principles from 1 to 6 2019 HUMAN RESOURCES YEARLY REPORTING ARaymond Network: Seniority 2019 AVERAGE SENIORITY BY REGION 2019 AVERAGE SENIORITY BY POSITION LEVEL 2019 A: Executive & Top Management B: Middle Management C: Expert D: Other workers & employees 18 Human Rights and Labor: Principles from 1 to 6 ARaymond & SERVANT LEADERSHIP At ARaymond, people drive value creation. Our managers focus on supporting their teams and encouraging them to take initiatives and express their creativity. Our management team does lead, of course. However, our servant leadership model means that employee wellness and empowerment come first. Giving meaning to the job tasks we carry out every day is fundamental to this leadership mission. And giving employees the opportunity to learn and grow is good for the company’s broader performance. ARaymond is dedicated to promoting Servant Leadership beyond our own organization. The company is engaged in a research chair on “Economic Peace, Mindfulness, and Wellness at Work” at a top-tier French business school, GEM (Grenoble Ecole de Management).. Géraldine EYRAUD INTERVIEW Chief Human Resources Officer, ARaymond Network WHAT STAGE HAS THE SERVANT LEADERSHIP PROGRAM ROLLOUT REACHED AT ARAYMOND? The most recent strategic plan, which we’ve been working on since November 2015, gives us a vision for the period to 2030. The new major step in implementation of this plan is that we’re now rolling out this program to the entire Network and all employees, rather than purely to managers. So in answer to your question, we’re keeping up the momentum. Servant Leadership is an attitude to be understood and embraced by all our people so that we can progress together towards achieving our shared plan and collaborate more effectively so that everyone feels they’re making a meaningful contribution to the company, which in turn improves the quality of work done. It’s rather like asking yourself: “What can I, as a manager, do “ ” to develop my team?” or “What can I, as an operator, do to add value to my work?”. Our goal in introducing this program is to develop a higher level of collaboration around our shared values, both locally and within cross-functional projects. More than 450 people have now received Servant Leadership training; going forward, we want to The Servant Leadership bring everyone in the company on board with this program, so is a strength. that no one feels left out. This is the point at which Collective Intelligence becomes genuinely meaningful. 19 Human Rights and Labor: Principles from 1 to 6 WHAT DO YOUR CUSTOMERS AND PARTNERS THINK ABOUT THIS INTERVIEW APPROACH? Servant Leadership has become an extremely distinctive strength in terms of the image external audiences have of us, whether customers, service providers or our future employees. Increasing numbers of managers now want to join ARaymond precisely because of the rather alternative image we present in the automotive industry landscape, which can sometimes seem austere and over-demanding. People who want to join our teams are looking to find greater meaning in the work they do, and develop personally and professionally in ways that achieve common goals. Which is why we pay particular attention to our selection criteria, within which behavioral attitudes, applicant demeanor and active listening are essential requirements, given that the appropriate technical skills are in place. We also see it as important to develop more collaborative relationships with our economic partners, as we already have with our suppliers, for example. A SUCCESSFUL MODEL THAT LEADS BY EXAMPLE: THE QC TEAM IN ITALY A new production line was installed at the ARaymond plant in Carisio, Italy, in early 2018.The 11 production team members exploited their multi-skilled versatility and team spirit to develop a new working method with no orders or strict rules. This team produces the rings used in Quick Connectors (QC). Everyone must now have a full understanding of all the tasks at every stage of the production line (preparation of materials, press changeovers, quality control inspection, etc. “Before, each operator had his own dedicated task. But from now on, we’re trying to do everything together as a team,” explains operator and team member Gianluca Sirufo. “This way, we have much more hands-on contact with the product and a better understanding of its importance.” And closer collaboration means less competition. “Basically, we’re all in the same boat,” adds Katia Tempo. QC team members no longer receive orders from a team leader, so the decisions needed to make sure that targets are achieved are made jointly as a group, and a manager ensures that the team is functioning smoothly. This new organizational structure means that employees are much more closely involved and apply their skills to create maximum added value. “Being there with everyone else and working as a team makes you feel very much a part of a plan that the company wanted to create. ARaymond doesn’t tell us to produce; we produce because we are ARaymond,” explains Allessandro Balinzo, who has been an operator at ARaymond Italy for more than 15 years. “Working this way means that the team organizes itself to the best of its abilities and beliefs. In my opinion, it’s the best way of getting everyone involved,” concludes Pierpaolo Carena, Managing Director of ARaymond Italy. The launch of this new organizational model has been focused on one of the plant’s four sectors, but will be rolled out to a second in the very near future. 20 Human Rights and Labor: Principles from 1 to 6 ARaymond & SERVANT LEADERSHIP ARaymond has identified Servant Leadership as its corporate leadership model and has full support of the Executive Committee. SERVANT LEADERSHIP IS A KEY PART OF OUR: • Development • Sustainability • Future competitiveness The servant leadership management model draws out talent innovatively, encourages collaboration and often develops bonds between employees. For the ARaymond Network, servant leadership is founded on six essential principles identified as being in-line with our values: listening, empathy, dialogue, encouragement, trust and delegation: LISTENING TAKING CARE DIALOGUE DELEGATING ENCOURAGING TRUST 21 Human Rights and Labor: Principles from 1 to 6 ARAYMOND EMPLOYEE SATISFACTION SURVEY 2018 FOCUS ON SERVANT LEADERSHIP 2018 overall result 78% POSITIVE The high rate of positive opinions remained stable drom 2015. Nearly eight out of ten employees have a positive opinion on servant leadership OPINIONS 80% LISTENING* The Servant Leadership program has had visible results in the Network for the past 78% DIALOGUE* six years. This new management style underpins a core change in business culture, encouraging reflection, the ability to adapt constantly and collective engagement. Next satisfaction survey edition 77% DELEGATING* ACTIONS in 2020 • Continue rolling out this management 76% ENCOURAGING* style locally and globally • New trainings sessions are offered to raise the awareness of Network employees regarding constructive 77% TAKING CARE* feedback and non-violent communication. Empathetic discussion is the foundation of a solid, lasting collaboration. 80% TRUST* *Positive opinions 22 Human Rights and Labor: Principles from 1 to 6 SERVANT FACILITATOR TRAINING: HOW TO INCREASE COLLABORATION ON GLOBAL AND LOCAL LEVEL In the ARaymond context, facilitation skills become a key asset to ensure effective teamwork based on collective intelligence. Learning goals are built and aligned to further strengthen our ARaymond culture and enable individuals to create value. Most importantly, this training aims to support You in Your facilitation challenges boosting your workshop & meeting outcomes to the next level. LEARNING OBJECTIVES: • Launch the meeting and set up the frame at the beginning • Use the appropriate posture for facilitation and a high level of emotional maturity and relation • Speak a bout the fundamentals, the principles of collective intelligence tools and the ARaymond’s facilitator’s role • Have a global picture of different tools related to facilitation’s purposes • Lead different tools and facilitate • Design a workshop “ This training is about sharing. Sharing experiences we had in the past, learn from them and create innovative ways to sublimate our collective intelligence. This is a mix of theory and practices but with a lot of practices. All of us experiment different ways of facilitation in real life and are getting feedback from participants. Those 2 weeks are not only focusing on tools but much more and the “ It´s really good, fast practical learning, lots of trying, failure and improve moments. Best thing: It will impact your day to day business 100% because you will improve your workshop results clearly. Probably the best global training I´ve ever participated to. So if possible participate as early ” ” way we facilitate. What means a Servant as possible leader posture while facilitating? What means being a Servant facilitator? Christian Tondera, trainer Benoit Barré, trainer 23 Human Rights and Labor: Principles from 1 to 6 NON-VIOLENT COMMUNICATION TRAININGS OBJECTIVES: • Support the Servant Leadership approach • Develop feedback culture : capacity to give and receive feedbacks • Promote positive reinforcement • Discover non-violent communication FUNDAMENTAL PRINCIPLES OF THE NVC: • Goodwill • Confidentiality • Non-judgement WHAT IS NON-VIOLENT COMMUNICATION ? Our intentions and use of language play a determinant role in resolving difficult situations The NVC method aims We have mostly been educated for empathic relationships with a language that makes us between people as well as think, categorize, require judge cooperation, self-respect and instead of looking at our own respect for others feelings and needs NEEDS This is a precious help to express our disagreements without feeding into conflicts It also allows us to build a better relationship with ourselves by understanding our deeper needs and take them into account independently and in a responsible way 24 Human Rights and Labor: Principles from 1 to 6 PEOPLE TRAINED OVER THE ARaymond NETWORK DATA: END OF DECEMBER 2018 453 TRAINED 171 TO BE TRAINED RAYBOND RAYCE All employees: 45p. All employees: 34 p. RAYNET March 2019 June 2018 All employees: 140 p. March November 2018 ARAYMOND GERMANY RAYGROUP Managers work & council : 156 p. Volunteers 30 p. (96 p. already trained) (18 p. already trained) April 2018– Jan. 2019 Sep 2018 Jan. 2019 US COMPANIES Managers & supervisors: 118 p. (68 p. already trained) March 2018 year 2019 OFFICERS HR LEADERS MDs & PRESIDENCY All 8: 62 p. All: 28 p. All: 11 p. (23 p. already trained) (18 p. already trained) 25 Human Rights and Labor: Principles from 1 to 6 SAFETY INTO ACTION In 2016 our Safety Leadership Project was rolled out in the entire ARaymond network. Since then this project which is based on the deployment of the safety promise and the safety commitment charter is explained to each new employee in the network. SAFETY PROMISE SAFETY COMMITMENT WHAT? C1: I have an exemplary safety behavior in line ARaymond commits to creating the with the safety promise and with the safety conditions needed to care for people’s guiding principles, wherever I am, whenever I safety kindly and totally so that it becomes make decisions and take actions. naturally embedded into everyone’s mind. TO WHOM? C2: I systematically take into consideration For employees, customers and any people’s safety and the assets preservation when stakeholder involved in the company’s I design, procure and implement an asset’s activities. investment. WHERE? In all job practices at every level of C3: I pay full attention to ensure the users’ management, our decisions and actions safety with the products and services which I focus on ensuring workers’, users’ and contribute to develop, produce and deliver. contractors’ health and well-being in our processes and solutions. C4: I relentlessly focus on ensuring the safety WHEN? of the people who work around me, wherever At strategic consideration level and in the I am in the network and without distinction of day-to-day operations, permanent care of organizational affiliation. others, full transparency, and continuous improvement are the key elements of our Safety Culture. C5: I take any opportunity to make my working pairs and any stakeholders aware about the critical importance to implement the safety promise and to respect the safety guidelines. C6: I build my safety management approach on encouraging a safety mindset and a preventive approach to safety in line with the « servant leadership » principles. C7: I commit to notifying any instance when I perceive or detect a danger related to occupational health or preservation of assets wherever I am in the company network. 26 Human Rights and Labor: Principles from 1 to 6 In 2019 we are back with figures in terms of lost time incidents as in 2013 which can be seen as an encouraging signal. In 2019 again, the incidents mainly concern non-observance of the PPE wear or of internal procedures; our actions are still mainly conducted towards the raising of the safety culture awareness. Workshops about « management exemplarity » continued to be led throughout our network to make safety more vivid in terms of behaviours. A special focus was also made in specific entities regarding safety on the raod (especially in France and China). The EHS network started to issued in 2019 a newsletter covering safety and environment topics, which is sent to the executive committee, the operations team and the EHS teammembers. One main achievement in 2019 is the registering of all the incidents throughout the network in one global reporting tool which is available for update on the ARaymond social « network » shARe. LOST TIME INCIDENTS 2018: 68 ARAYMOND NETWORK 2018 SAFETY FIGURES Lost Days LTI 27 Human Rights and Labor: Principles from 1 to 6 In 2017 we started a long-term action in France regarding road risk as it had been identified as one of our major risks. Several actions were taken in 2017 (specific events, flyers distribution). Actions continued throughout 2018 with a specific group of managers attending a pilot awareness session about safety on the road. A specific training was then deployed through 2019 to all drivers with a company car and to those who mainly travel between our ARaymond sites: around 30 people were trained. “ I thought I would be reminded of rules, that I would feel guilty… Not at all, the trainer far from making us guilty shared with us in a very interactive way and changed my vision of what I thought was compelling on the roads. By explaining the reason behind each rule, I understood better the impact of disrespecting them. This training made me change some of my bad habits.I strongly recommend this 1-day training which makes us step back and think ” hard about safety Benoit Barré “ I really wondered what the benefits of 1 complete day dedicated to safety on the road could be. Especially without practice. It went very quick eventually. The exchanges with other participants and the trainer made me understand that my bad habits could clearly impact myself or other people. Believing that the others are the dangerous people is pure utopia as well as believing that accidents mainly occur in complex situations. I have to admit that I have adapted to change some bad driving habits and I clearly do not hesitate to explain why and to show the example with the young people in the family. This training is really ” worth doing it Valérie Berrux 28 Human Rights and Labor: Principles from 1 to 6 DIVERSITY INTO ACTION ARaymond IS MOBILIZED TO INTEGRATE AND MAINTAIN THE EMPLOYMENT OF PEOPLE WITH DISABILITIES. Every year in November ARaymond takes part in the European Week for the Employment of People with Disabilities. In 2019, together with the HR Teams and the Communication teams in France, we planned actions to raise awareness on different types of disabilities. We shared key messages with our information screens to help people know better about the different disabilities and especially the invisible ones. WWW.EDEW.EU DIVERSITY OUR STARTING POINT NEXT STEP Presidency request about diversity: Survey to validate Focus on better integration of: entities priorities • Female employees in technical job • people with disabilities OUR AMBITION • Change of thinking in management levels • It is not a topic anymore • Diversity is needed for the future • Carreer path for diverse people • Accept difference • Open mindset at each level 29 Human Rights and Labor: Principles from 1 to 6 DIVERSITY INTO ACTION THE HANDIGITAL PROGRAM: A HUMAN EXPERIENCE What is Handigital exactly? The Handigital School opened in Grenoble in 2017. It is a unique school in France which provides training in digital careers by giving opportunities to students on equal skills to those ones with disabilities. Why does Raynet participate to this program? Two things led Raynet (the IT subsidiary of ARaymond) to be involved in this project: identified needs for digital skills and the very strong will to include diversity and difference in the IT teams. How did the project begin? I heard about the Handigital project during the time I was assisted by Cap Emploi. Given that most of my skills were self-taught, I was keen to get those skills formally recognized in a more academic environment. So the Handigital project was a good way to achieve that. My colleague Charlotte from the Human Resources joined me to visit Handigital to present our project proposal to the students, and Benoît was one of those students motivated by our project. What are Benoît’s missions? I’m a web developer at Raynet. I develop applications. When people need an app, they contact me to explain what they exactly want and we make it happen. Benoît has many missions. He already had the opportunity to take a number of projects from start to finish. The first thing he worked on was a chatbot to facilitate our electronic timesheets recording system. Benoît also developed several websites for one of our production sites Saint-Egrève, close to Grenoble. He currently works on a website to showcase our micro-services. How did the integration process go? We didn’t have to make any particular adjustments to give Benoît the best-possible welcome, as the Handigital project included training for everyone involved in the company. So all the employees who worked alongside Benoît were able to benefit from this training. What are the main benefits of this project? “This project brought us the skills we were looking for, which include the web developer skills that Benoît is so passionate about. He’s very efficient and works very quickly. On a more personal level, he also created a very friendly team dynamic that has brought team members closer together.” (Anne-Laure Dalban-Pillon, project leader in Raynet) “This experience brings many things to my daily life. First, I enjoy a lot working and having a job. Even better I working in a field that I do like a lot. And with people I enjoy working with. It’s quite nice to be part of a team and be able to contribute to the company’s value creation.” (Benoît, the student) HTTPS://HANDIGITAL-FORMATION.COM/2019/03/04/RAYNET-TEMOIGNAGE-DEPASSER-PEUR-HANDIGITAL/ 30 Human Rights and Labor: Principles from 1 to 6 DIVERSITY INTO ACTION ARAYMOND NETWORK: GENDER DISTRIBUTION 2019 Gender distribution per region Gender distribution by position level A: Executive & Top Management B: Middle Management C: Expert D: Other workers & employees GENDER BY POSITION LEVEL: 2013-2019 Men / Women by position level: all Men / Women by position level: A & B AVERAGE AGE AND SENIORITY EVOLUTION Average seniority evolution Average age evolution 31 Human Rights and Labor: Principles from 1 to 6 MAKING A DIFFERENCE THROUGH COMMUNITY OUTREACH MAKING SCHOOL LIFE BETTER Entities across ARaymond support a broad spectrum of deserving causes each year. Our employees contribute to projects like school renovations and food drives. They also help to raise funds for organizations that provide bereavement support, assist victims of domestic violence, protect children, conduct medical research and provide education. One concrete example of this commitment in practice is ARaymond India’s three-year involvement with the Roundhalwadi public primary school located about an hour from ARaymond’s Pune plant. In 2018, and with help from the company, more than 30 employees helped to renovate the school’s kitchen and restrooms, donated new desks and benches, volunteered on Saturdays to raise the children’s awareness of personal hygiene, and taught English and IT classes. DUTY OF CARE ARaymond employs 7250 people in 25 countries around the globe. The legal obligations around employee benefits vary from country to country, and standards and practices differ greatly. But at ARaymond, we see it as our responsibility to give back to our employees by providing a standard set of benefits worldwide. In 2019, the company introduced a program to ensure that all employees worldwide have pension, health, disability and death benefits that exceed the legal requirements of individual countries. 32 Human Rights and Labor: Principles from 1 to 6 ARAYMOND EUROPEAN WORKS COUNCIL INTO ACTION ARAYMOND EWC IS ACTIVELY RUNNING Operating report • 3 meetings have been organized since the go-live: 2 ordinary plenary meetings in June, in Spain (2018) and France (2019). An extraordinary meeting, in remote mode, in November 2018 • The Secretary and Deputy Secretary were appointed in June 2018 • A visual identity was created in June 2018 • Internal regulations were negotiated and implemented in February 2019 • Dedicated bank account has been created late 2019 Every year, an ordinary plenary session runs a week long: • 3 full days of meetings • ½ day dedicated to the preparation and another half day for the synthesis of debates, between representatives only • ½ day dedicated to strategy • The information and consultation day on recurring and topical issues is very busy The delegation of 14 employee representatives from 5 different countries was set up in May 2018 for 4 years • 7 of the 12 companies in the scope have a representative on the EWC 33 Human Rights and Labor: Principles from 1 to 6 THE TOPICS COVERED ARE VERY DIVERSE BUT ALWAYS HAVE A TRANSNATIONAL DIMENSION Each year, 9 recurrent items are the subject of a consultation with the employee representatives • Mergers and acquisitions • Investments • Production transfers & Relocation of activity • SUBSTANTIAL changes concerning the organization, introduction of new working methods or production processes • Transnational policy on safety, security, health and environment • Employment situation and trends • Reduction in the size or closure of companies, establishments & collective redundancies • Transnational training policy in line with developments in activities and technologies • Major transnational social policy guidelines and major transnational human resources projects Topical issues are chosen jointly according to events and new regulations or laws. • In 2018, exchanges were on the implementation of the code of conduct , alert system GDPR • In 2019, BREXIT was the hot topic General organization and strategy Economic and financial situation Industrial strategy and organization Environmentoccupational health Human resources and training policy 34 ENVIRONMENT: PRINCIPLES FROM 7 TO 9 At ARaymond, we hold a strong belief that we are part of the global ecosystem. We take responsibility for protecting our environment, both now and for future generations. Environmental issues are fully integrated into our strategic plans and CSR. Our mission is to support the growth of our Network through environmental values, human responsibilities and ethical behaviors. The implementation of this strategy will allow us to develop products, processes or services which will bring a sustainable performance. Our strategy is composed of 4 pillars: • Life cycle management: we design sustainable solutions. • Industrial and territorial ecology: we produce through sustainable flows. • Economy of functionality: we offer sustainable performance. • Culture and behaviors: we have a sustainable mindset. From these 4 pillars, we defined 2 ways to become more sustainable: • We DESIGN FOR SUSTAINABILITY taking into consideration full Life cycle of our products. • We PRODUCE FOR SUSTAINABILITY by improving the environment impact of our internal flows (what happened inside ARaymond plant) and our external flows (our relationship with local ecosystem such as suppliers, customers but also communities living in our territories). One of our mission is also to support our customer in their new challenges related to end of life of their product. We want to OFFER SUSTAINABILITY: new solutions to our customer taking into consideration assembly, usage but also disassembly. 35 Environment: Principles from 7 to 9 WE DESIGN SUSTAINABLE SOLUTIONS Our Orbit product In early 2019, ARaymond Agriculture launched Orbit, a groundbreaking fastening system for young ornamental and fruit trees. At ARaymond Agriculture, we believe in working together with growers in order to tailor our services to best meet their needs. After use, each Orbit product can be removed and stored for future usage. The Orbit from ARaymond is an environmentally friendly solution which keeps the soil free of plastic waste. Environmental Commitment ARaymond Agriculture is committed to developing innovative new products by investing in the research and development of materials which respect both terrestrial and marine ecosystems. All ARaymond Agriculture products adhere to the very highest standards of quality in terms of material properties and production. Additionally, all ARaymond solutions can be recovered and reused during multiple production cycles. At ARaymond Agriculture, we believe in the importance of developing sustainable agriculture as a response to all the critical environmental problems which the world is facing today. We believe that responsible agriculture and the development of sustainable and recyclable products are crucial for both the agricultural sector and society. 100% of our plastic solutions are made from recycled materials In keeping with ARaymond Agriculture’s environmental commitment strategy, all our plastic parts are made from recycled plastics of the very highest quality. By reusing single-use plastic products to produce new fastening solutions, our aim is to preserve resources and energy whilst substantially reducing the amount of plastic waste damaging our ecosystem. The composition of these plastics together with optimal assembly line quality control ensures ARaymond solutions offer the very highest quality standards on the market today. BIO certifications ARaymond Agriculture holds NF EN 14995 certification for all its BIO solutions which guarantees that our BIO material and all BIO parts are fully biodegradable and compostable. 36 Environment: Principles from 7 to 9 ACTIONS AND RESULTS In 2016 a photovoltaic power plant was installed in one of our ARaymond French sites. In 2017 22.1 MWh were produced, which represents 1.5 % of the total consumption of the ARaymond France and logistics buildings of our Technisud site (South Grenoble). At ARaymond India a 440 KW of solar PV was also installed in 2017 to act for the environment and save money; investment cost of solar plant is being taken care of by Solar Company and the project will be transferred to ARaymond after 25 years. In addition, the clips used for this installation of this project were supplied by ARaymond India. Photovoltaic panels at ARaymond India 37 Environment: Principles from 7 to 9 & Tree-Nation is an international social network committed to the issue of deforestation, desertification and poverty. The projects of Tree-Nation fits within the global values of the ARaymond Network. All decisions and actions are taken with a particular consideration for the creation of value and the impact on the environment. In 2009, the ARaymond Network committed itself to different projects with Tree-Nation. Since then, the ARaymond Network has renewed its commitment every year. 2020 OBJECTIVES: France: • Organizing “planting days” with schools in France, allowing children to be sensitized to Nature and the importance of taking care of our planet while participating in fun tree planting activities. Kenya: • School/Educational Day Trips to the Bore Community Forest Centre. • Tropical forests are now understood to play an absolutely key role in cooling the planet so it is important that the next generation of Kenyan youngsters understand the threats faced by their forest in regard to clearing for agriculture/charcoal burning and that they need to be their guardians of the forest on behalf of the rest of us! 38 Environment: Principles from 7 to 9 DOING BUSINESS THE RIGHT WAY An ethical employer and partner Whether in terms of how we engage with people or the environment, ARaymond has always maintained the highest standards of responsible and ethical behavior in its operations. We also seek similar commitments from our suppliers and partners. We strive to work with integrity and respect in all our operating countries. These commitments reflect our fundamental values, at the same time as providing us with a long-term vision and a sustainable future for our company, its employees and the environment. SUSTAINABILITY IN PURCHASING PROCESS What is done: 2019 • ARaymond Responsible Procurement vision What is on going: 2019-2020 • E-learning on Responsible Procurement • Technical sheets with selection and assessment criteria for 2 procurement categories • Communication to ARaymond’s employees What is next: 2020 • Responsible Procurement ambassadors • Communication to suppliers • Technical sheets with selection and assessment criteria for others main procurement categories • Reporting of the Responsible Procurement approach 39 ANTI-CORRUPTION: PRINCIPLE 10 “ Integrity and respect are the foundation of our corporate culture, they are precious to who we are and we must never ” compromise this. Antoine Raymond, CEO, ARaymond Network ARaymond COMPLIANCE PROGRAM ARaymond has continued to deploy a worldwide compliance program to address the growing complexity of laws and regulations in the countries in which we operate and to further develop a common ethics culture. The compliance program draws, in particular, on the ARaymond Network’s corruption risk mapping. This risk mapping is updated on a regular basis. In addition to the Code of Conduct & Ethics, ARaymond has issued a series of guidelines and internal controls to prevent or detect any form of corruption and influence peddling. Education and information campaigns are conducted throughout the ARaymond Network to raise awareness of compliance and ethical issues. Through dedicated sessions, we provide the most exposed functions, those who come into contact with external business partners, with the understanding and tools to act with integrity at all times. There is a network wide training program regarding anti-bribery : until now ¼ of the ARaymond employees followed this 3-hour training which will continue to be rolledout throughout 2020 in all the ARaymond sites. A dedicated training session is planned for the new employees. Our Whistleblower Procedure, gives anyone from within the ARaymond Network or business partner the means to report any practices that violate any our Code of Conduct & Ethics. In order to guarantee the independence and confidentiality of the information conveyed by the whistle-blower, ARaymond uses a recognized and specialized third party SAFECALL. safecall The Whistleblowing Company Procedures for evaluating business partners with the help of specialized tools and databases are deployed throughout the Network to ensure that they are able to identify and address any issues of integrity. Finally, ARaymond’s compliance program draws on internal control and accounting procedures that have been strengthened and include the Network’s Internal Control and Accounting Manuals. 40 CONTACTS CSR Carole Neyrinck carole.neyrinck@araymond.com ENVIRONMENT Damien Fouesneau damien.fouesneau@araymond.com COMPLIANCE Jason Crumley jason.crumley@araymond.com HUMAN Gaëlle Soulier gaelle.soulier@araymond.com RESOURCES SAFETY Marie-Laurence Gilbert marie-laurence.gilbert@araymond.com EUROPEAN Josiane Giraud josiane.giraud@araymond.com WORKING COUNCIL 41 © RAYGROUP SASU 2020
