2019 S U ST A I N A B IL IT Y R E P OR T Caring Living Working Table of contents Message to the stakeholders 2 Caring, Living and Working – Together in Real Estate 4 Key figures as at 31.12.2019 12 Major trends and their impacts on the materiality matrix 14 Value chain 18 Dialogue with stakeholders 20 Business ethics 26 Profitability for investors and access to capital 32 Management of financial resources 33 Innovation 44 Aesthetics, respect for public spaces and diversity of districts 48 Safety and well-being 52 Employee training 54 Diversity policy 56 Mobility 60 Energy intensity and GHG emissions 62 EPRA performance indicators 66 Dashboard 86 Link between topics of Cofinimmo and SDGs 90 GRI content index 92 Statutory Auditor's report 96 OUR ESG COMMITTMENT Co fin immo ’s E SG C orp ora t e S oci a l co mmitments are o f R e s p ons i b i l i t y i s e mb e d d e d cen tral importance in its i n t he org a ni s a t i on, strategic priorities. Th e a s e vi d e nce d b y t he co mpany h as economic a p p l i ca t i on of E S G responsibilities to w ards re p ort i ng g ui d e l i ne s ( G R I , its client tenants, social s BP R E P R A, E urone xt E S G ) responsibilities to w ards a nd b y a s s e s s me nt s its employees and ( G R E S B, S us t a i nAl yt i cs , MS C I civic responsibilities E S G , V i g e o E i ri s , S t a nd a rd to w ards society and th e E t hi cs , BR E E AM). environment. 4 assets: BREEAM good to excellent 8 assets: BREEAM In use good to very good Gold Award since 2012 Part of the Ethibel Sustainability Index (ESI) Excellence Europe since 2018 Based on Vigeo Eiris EE+ Very strong SE Belgian Index SE Best in Class Index Since 2015 Only Belgian company appearing in the Top 20 of the Gender Diversity Index Global ESG Risk Rating score: 15.1 Green Star with a score of 70% (compared to 45% in 2014) Equileap Global Top 100 : raking 75th on a total of 3,500 2018: Gold Score A since 2016 1 2015: Silver 2012: Standard 1 Disclaimer statement : The use by Cofinimmo of any MSCI ESG RESEARCH LLC or its affiliates (“MSCI”) data, and the use of MSCI logos, trademarks, service marks or index names herein, do not constitute a sponsorship, endorsement, recommendation, or promotion of Cofinimmo by MSCI. MSCI services and data are the property of MSCI or its information providers, and are provided ‘as-is’ and without warranty. MSCI names and logos are trademarks or service marks of MSCI. Nursing and care home – Cartagena (ES) FIFTH COUNTRY FOR COFINIMMO I n Sep tember 2019, Cof i ni m m o announ ced i ts s ettl em ent in Spain w i t h a f i r st p i pel ine of five c onstr u c ti on proj ects in h ea l thc a r e r eal estate. Spa i n of f er s Co fin immo i n t er es ti ng p er spectives to exp a nd i ts portfolio a n d d ep l oy i ts r eal estate exp er ti se. S pain falls behi nd other coun tries i n the the number of p l ac es i n nursin g and c a re hom es . Mor eo ver, th e c urrent stoc k needs to be r en ovated. Cof i ni m m o’s a mbition is t o c ontr i bu te to meeting t h is need u s i ng its man y y ear s of experien ce in the d evel op men t an d r enova ti on of care facilities. Nursing and care home – Vigo (ES) About Cofinimmo Cofinimmo has been acquiring, developing and managing rental properties for over 35 years. The company has a portfolio spread across Belgium, France, the Netherlands, Germany and Spain with a value of approximately 4.2 billion EUR. With attention to social developments, Cofinimmo has the mission of making high-quality care, living and working environments available to its partners-tenants, from which users benefit directly. 'Caring, Living and Working Together in Real Estate' is the expression of this mission. Thanks to its expertise, Cofinimmo has built up a healthcare real estate portfolio of approximately 2.4 billion EUR in Europe. As an independent company that applies the highest standards of corporate governance and sustainability, Cofinimmo offers its tenants services and manages its portfolio through a team of approximately 130 employees in Brussels, Paris, Breda and Frankfurt. Cofinimmo is listed on Euronext Brussels (BEL20) and benefits from the REIT system in Belgium (RREC), France (SIIC) and the Netherlands (FBI). Its activities are supervised by the Financial Services and Markets Authority (FSMA), the 4.2 Belgian regulator. On 31.12.2019, Cofinimmo’s total market billion capitalisation stood at approximately 3.4 billion EUR. The company applies an investment policy aimed at offering a socially FAIR VALUE responsible, long-term, low-risk investment that OF THE PORTFOLIO generates a regular, predictable and growing flow of dividends. COFINIMMO SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2019 1 Message to the stakeholders Cofinimmo launches the project 30³ whose ambition is to reduce the energy intensity of its entire assets portfolio by 30% (compared to the 2017 level) by 2030 to reach the level of 130 kWh/m² Jacques van Rijckevorsel, Chairman of the Board of Directors Jean-Pierre Hanin, Chief Executive Officer DEAR STAKEHOLDERS, Cofinimmo, being a major real estate player in Europe, has been committed for more than ten years to a global ESG strategy. In response to the risks involved by climate change, Cofinimmo decided to scale up its environmental ambitions. This year’s strategic thinking led to a 30% reduction (compared to the 2017 level) of the portfolio’s energy intensity by 2030, to reach 130 kWh/m2 (project 30³). 2 COFINIMMO SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2019 This objective has been established obviously not limited to environmental following the science-based targets aspects. In 2019, Cofinimmo confirmed methodology, which enabled to its commitment to the United Nations objectivise the effort to be made Sustainable Development Goals. The in order to contribute to the global ten principles of the United Nations objective of limiting global warming to Global Compact are derived from the a maximum of 1.5°C. It follows on from Universal Declaration of Human Rights, the many ESG initiatives conducted the International Labour Organisation by Cofinimmo, and is actively in line Declaration on Fundamental Principles with the Paris Agreement concluded and Rights at Work, the Rio Declaration at COP 21. on Environment and Development, and the United Nations Convention This business project covers not only against Corruption. Through its values the office and healthcare real estate and way of functioning, Cofinimmo insegments, but also all activities tends to fulfil its fundamental respondirectly managed within the company sibilities in the fields of human rights, such as sales and acquisitions, labour, the environment and the fight development, works management and against corruption. day-to-day property management. Only a 360-degree approach, taking The existence of an ambitious strategy into account the entire life cycle of in terms of sustainability is a necessity buildings, will enable the Group to to ensure the long-term value of the achieve the objective set. company. Cofinimmo's various stakeholders have clearly understood this: We will obviously focus on the acquisithe number of shareholders seeking tion of buildings with sufficient energy socially responsible investments conperformance or which can be improved tinues to grow; tenants demand enerin the short and medium term through gy-efficient and comfortable buildings; reasonable investments. as for employees, they are constantly Our development and project seeking meaning in their activities. management teams will also continue At social level, Cofinimmo continues to apply their experience and knowto invest massively in healthcare real how to signi­ f icantly improve the estate. These investments provide a environmental footprint of the response to the challenges linked to buildings currently in our portfolio. the ageing population in Europe, takEco-design, the use of low-carbon ing into account the needs of the most footprint materials and the latest vulnerable people. New healthcare inconstruction techniques, such as frastructures are being created in reBuilding Info Modeling (BIM), are all gions lacking them today. The offer is examples of how this is being achieved. diversified in order to respond to the Moreover, Cofinimmo will continue, as healthcare value chain: nursing and far as possible, to give a second life care homes, medical office buildings, to the materials and equipment of the acute care or revalidation clinics and buildings it renovates. sports and wellness centres. In addition, we will continue the strucMoreover, aware of the isolation tural monitoring of the energy intensiproblem experienced by part of the ty of our assets by extending the inpopulation, special attention is being stallation of remotely readable meters paid to the proper integration of to healthcare real estate, since office new healthcare real estate projects buildings are already equipped with into the urban fabric. Developments this type of meter. THIS YEAR’S STRATEGIC are designed so that buildings Whatever the measures put in place, remain living spaces where several THINKING LED TO THE the objective can only be achieved generations can live side by side. The through active dialogue with the oc'Hillegersberg' project near Rotterdam AMBITIOUS PROJECT OF cupants of the buildings. The Green is a good example. This nursing and REDUCING THE ENERGY Charter, currently applicable to office care home project also includes a INTENSITY OF OUR buildings, will be extended to healthdaycare centre, a brewery and a care buildings. This charter is nothing playground for children. ASSETS BY 30% BY 2030 more than a collaboration agreement COMPARED TO THE 2017 between tenant and landlord aimed at sharing energy intensity data and imLEVEL. plementing initiatives to reduce it. Cofinimmo’s sustainability strategy is Message to the stakeholders COFINIMMO SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2019 3 Caring, Living and Working – Together in Real Estate CARING BE A LEADING EUROPEAN HEALTHCARE REIT WITH TOP QUALITY PORTFOLIO, ALSO PARTICIPATING TO INNOVATIVE REAL ESTATE CONCEPTS ADDRESSING HEALTHCARE CHALLENGES LIVING WORKING CREATING VALUE OPPORTUNISTIC ADD-ON THROUGH CAPITAL RECYCLING APPROACH WITH SECURED AND REBALANCING PORTFOLIO LONG-TERM INCOME TOWARDS BRUSSELS CENTRAL BUSINESS DISTRICT (‘CBD’) 4 COFINIMMO SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2019 BREDA BRUSSELS FRANKFURT PARIS 130 people COFINIMMO MANAGES ITS ASSETS THROUGH A TEAM OF ABOUT 130 PEOPLE IN BRUSSELS, PARIS, BREDA AND FRANKFURT. Caring, Living and Working – Together in Real Estate COFINIMMO SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2019 5 Caring 56 % OF THE OVERALL PORTFOLIO 2.4 billion EUR FAIR VALUE OF THE PORTFOLIO 1,000,000 m² ABOVE-GROUND SURFACE AREA 17,800 BEDS 99.8 % OCCUPANCY RATE 5.7 % GROSS YIELD 16 years RESIDUAL LEASE LENGTH 197 NUMBER OF ASSETS 175 kWh/m² ENERGY INTENSITY OF THE SEGMENT 2005 FIRST INVESTMENT IN HEALTHCARE REAL ESTATE 6 COFINIMMO SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2019 BREAKDOWN OF THE HEALTHCARE PORTFOLIO BY COUNTRY 12% THE NETHERLANDS 21% GERMANY 51% BELGIUM 16% FRANCE <1% SPAIN Caring, Living and Working – Together in Real Estate COFINIMMO SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2019 7 Living 0.6 billion EUR FAIR VALUE OF THE PORTFOLIO 13 % OF THE OVERALL PORTFOLIO 400,000 m² ABOVE-GROUND SURFACE AREA 99.2 % OCCUPANCY RATE 6.3 % GROSS YIELD 12 years RESIDUAL LEASE LENGTH 1,206 NUMBER OF ASSETS, OF WHICH: 938 PUBS AND RESTAURANTS, AND 268 INSURANCE AGENCIES 7 ASSETS IN OPERATION IN THE PPP PORTFOLIO 109 kWh/m² ENERGY INTENSITY OF THE SEGMENT 2005 AWARDING OF THE FIRST PUBLIC-PRIVATE PARTNERSHIP (PPP): THE COURTHOUSE OF ANTWERP 2007 PARTNERSHIP WITH AB INBEV GROUP FOR A PORTFOLIO OF PUBS AND RESTAURANTS 2011 PARTNERSHIP WITH MAAF FOR A PORTFOLIO OF INSURANCE AGENCIES 8 COFINIMMO SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2019 BREAKDOWN OF PROPERTY OF DISTRIBUTION NETWORKS BY COUNTRY 25% PUBSTONE (NL) 53% PUBSTONE (BE) 22% COFINIMUR I (FR) Caring, Living and Working – Together in Real Estate COFINIMMO SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2019 9 Working 1.3 billion EUR FAIR VALUE OF PORTFOLIO 31 % OF GLOBAL PORTFOLIO 560,000 m² ABOVE-GROUND SURFACE AREA 91.5 % OCCUPANCY RATE 7.1 % GROSS YIELD 80 NUMBER OF ASSETS 2016 OPENING OF THE FIRST FLEX CORNERS® AND LOUNGES® 12 NUMBER OF ASSETS WITH BREEAM CERIFICATION 201 kWh/m² ENERGY INTENSITY OF THE SEGMENT 10 COFINIMMO SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2019 RECENTERING OF THE PORTFOLIO TOWARDS THE CENTRE OF BRUSSELS Caring, Living and Working – Together in Real Estate COFINIMMO SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2019 11 Bourget 50 office building – as at 31.12.2019 Brussels Decentralised (BE) Key figures OPERATIONAL FINANCIAL NON-FINANCIAL 4.2 billion EUR 3.4 billion EUR 130 employees FAIR VALUE OF THE PORTFOLIO MARKET CAPITALISATION 39 % men +14 % IN 2019 Member of the 61 % women BEL 20 178 kWh/m² 235 million EUR AVERAGE PORTFOLIO ENERGY PROPERTY RESULT 120.81 EUR INTENSITY +10.8 % AVERAGE ORDINARY SHARE PRICE IN 2019 70 % 7.9 % GRESB GREEN STAR 2,000,000 m² TOTAL RETURN OF THE ORDINARY TOTAL ABOVE-GROUND SHARE IN 2019 EE+ SURFACE AREA STANDARD ETHICS NOTATION 6.81 EUR/share 1,483 EPRA RESULT ASSETS 100.69 EUR/share 6.2 % EPRA NET ASSET VALUE GROSS RENTAL YIELD AT 100 % OCCUPANCY 41 % DEBT-TO-ASSETS RATIO 97 % OCCUPANCY RATE 1.4 % AVERAGE COST OF DEBT 12 years WEIGHTED AVERAGE RESIDUAL LEASE LENGTH BBB/long term & A-2/short term STANDARD & POOR’S RATING 12 COFINIMMO SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2019 Bourget 42 office building – Brussels Decentralised (BE) PORTFOLIO BREAKDOWN BY SEGMENT (AS AT 31.12.2019 – AT FAIR VALUE) 13% 56% 31% Healthcare real estate Offices Property of distribution networks GEOGRAPHICAL BREAKDOWN OF THE PORTFOLIO (AS AT 31.12.2019 – AT FAIR VALUE) <1%* 10% 12% 66% 12% Belgium France Germany The Netherlands Spain * The construction process of a nursing and care home started in Vigo, Oleiros and Cartagena (Spain). As at 31.12.2019, the total fair value of the healthcare real estate portfolio in Spain accounts for 0.3 %. Key figures COFINIMMO SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2019 13 Major trends and their impacts on Cofinimmo prepares for the world of tomorrow and integrates major societal trends into its strategy. The 17 United Nations Sustainable Development Goals (SDG) are part of the major trends which Cofinimmo takes into account the materiality matrix Cofinimmo positions itself as a driver example, Cofinimmo endeavours to for change in dealing with challengreduce water consumption as much as es such as climate change, populapossible by means of the introduction tion ageing, growing urbanisation, of remote meters, in the same way as changing technologies and working it handles energy intensity and greenpractices and, therefore, the need for house gas emissions (‘GHG’). built surfaces. In response to tighter All the details of the actions carried regulation on energy performance, out in 2019 and future objectives are Cofinimmo builds more efficient buildlisted in a dashboard (see pages 86ings and manages them in a more 89). The link between the topics of cost-effective way. However, those are Cofinimmo and the SDGs is listed in a not the only aspects that have to be table (see pages 90-91). taken into account… The 21 topics included in the company’s materiality matrix reflect the importance of these trends for both Cofinimmo and its stakeholders. The materiality matrix was drawn up for the first time in 2014 in accordance with the Global Reporting Initiative (GRI) guidelines and is reviewed and refined on an annual basis. Each point represents a sustainability topic for the company. The position of the 17 UN GOALS TO TRANSFORM OUR WORLD points on the matrix is determined not The Sustainable Development Goals are intended to provide inonly by the way the topic they reprecentives for all countries poor, rich and with middle income to sent is perceived by stakeholders but take action to promote prosperity while protecting the planet. also by how big an impact this same They recognise that poverty can only be eradicated if it is coufactor could have in the long term, as pled with strategies to increase estimated internally by Cofinimmo. economic growth and address The upper right area, beyond the curve a range of social needs, inin the chart on the right page, contains cluding education, health, the nine priority areas for action from social protection and the 21 identified internally. The other employment opportunitopics in the materiality matrix are not ties, while combatting considered to be a priority and are climate change and below the curve. This does not reflect protecting the environdisinterest but can be explained by ment. the fact that most of these topics are subject to fairly strict legislation that requires companies to deal with them, irrespective of the perception of their importance within the company. For 14 COFINIMMO SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2019 MATERIALITY MATRIX 10 Profitability for investors and access to capital Energy intensity and GHG emisions Safety and well-being 9 Business ethics 8 Innovation Mobility Water consumption 7 Accessibility for people with Respect for IMPORTANCE FOR STAKEHOLDERS reduced mobility differences and cultural diversity Fight against illegal employment Type of occupation Aesthetics, respect for public 6 Use of sustainable / recycled spaces and divermaterials sity of districts Access to housing for all Employee Impact on green spaces training Construction waste 5 Waste linked to occupation 4 In direct job creation Disturbances linked to occupation 3 2 Noise pollution 1 0 0 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 10 IMPORTANCE FOR COFINIMMO ENVIRONNEMENTAL SOCIAL GOVERNANCE •E  nergy intensity and GHG • Safety and well-being •P  rofitability for investors and emissions •R  espect for differences and access to capital • Mobility cultural diversity • Innovation • Water consumption •A  esthetics, respect for public • Business ethics •U  se of sustainable and/or spaces and diversity of districts • Type of occupation recycled materials • Employee training • Impact on green spaces •A  ccessibility for people with • Construction waste reduced mobility • Waste linked to occupation •F  ight against illegal employment •D  isturbances linked to occupation • Access to housing for all • Noise pollution • Indirect job creation Major trends and their impacts on the materiality matrix COFINIMMO SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2019 15 CLIMATE CHANGE hoods where each function co-exists THE SHARING ECONOMY in harmony; promoting the accessibi­ Climate change is a long-term risk. The awareness of part of the society lity of buildings to people with reduced Over the next 30 years, it is expectof the importance of limiting its mobility and developing safe buildings ed to have a considerable impact on carbon footprint, the search for a where it is attractive to live. real estate and therefore affect most more efficient and reasoned use of European real estate players (Source: physical and financial resources lead GROWING URBANISATION Emerging Trends in Real Estate®, an increasing number of people and Climate Change, Europe 2020, PWC According to the World Bank, in 2018, companies to embrace the principles & Urban Land Institure). Meeting the about 55% of the world's population of the sharing economy. greenhouse gas emission reduction will live in cities (Source: https://data. They become product users rather targets set by the Paris Agreement at worldbank.org/indicator/). than product owners or, in the case of COP 21 is therefore a major challenge This figure has been rising steadily real estate, sole tenants. In addition, for real estate. All the more so since since the 1950s. In Europe, this figure this approach provides users access it has and will have an impact on the is even higher. In France, for example, to flexible solutions that are more in level of capital to be invested, the opit reaches the level of 80%. line with their rapidly changing needs erating costs and the speed of obsoand avoids certain investment costs. lescence of real estate assets. This urbanisation represents a major challenge in terms of integrating popMany sharing applications already diThrough its project 30³, aiming at reulations of different origins, providing rectly or indirectly impact the office ducing energy intensity, Cofinimmo food and shelter for all, but also in real estate segment: shared meeting intends to take up this challenge and terms of mobility, pollution managerooms in buildings and business parks, thus sustain the value of its assets ment, connectivity, etc. co-working areas, etc. complying with the Paris Agreement. This phenomenon has an impact on However, the sharing economy also afAGEING POPULATION the way real estate is thought about. fects residential real estate. Housing One of the consequences being, for with more community areas is being The acceleration in the ageing of the example, the progressive decrease in built, sometimes for a very targeted population is having an impact on the average housing size. group of users, like Generation Y, but current social models, these include also for senior citizens in the form of the increase in the retirement age, the MOBILITY service flats. organisation of healthcare, etc. In the context of increasing urban Well aware of this topic, Cofinimmo is The growing healthcare real estate population, pollution and the fight innovating by creating shared spacsegment has to meet the expectaagainst GHG emissions, mobility is es such as those clients find in oftions of an ever-increasing section of gradually being rethought. fice buildings in the form of Lounge®, the population. This means care buildshared meeting rooms or Flex Corner®. ings that are more flexible according to Cities such as Paris, Brussels, Antwerp the degree of autonomy of individuals, and Gent are starting to exclude the THE CIRCULAR ECONOMY combined with suitable housing. most polluting vehicles. Public transport companies are moving to electric Natural resources are limited. As But what are the population projecvehicles. Initiatives are being taken to a result of NGOs lobbying, circular tions for the EU-28? During the period promote micro-mobility such as shareconomy initiatives are being from 2018 to 2080, the share of popuing less polluting bicycles, electric mopromoted and even subsidised by the lation of working age is expected to depeds or scooters. Mobility is intended European Commission and certain cline steadily until 2060 before stabilisto be multimodal, flexible and scalacountries, regions and cities in Europe ing somewhat, while elderly people will ble according to actual travel needs. so as to limit waste and increase the likely account for an increasing share Aware of this challenge, Cofinimmo is rate of reuse of materials. Every year in of the total population: those aged 65 multiplying its mobility initiatives by the European Union, nearly 15 tonnes years or over will account for 30.1% testing shared vehicle solutions and of materials are used per person of the EU-28’s population by 2080, by setting up infrastructures for cyand each EU citizen generates, on compared with 19.7% in 2018. As a reclists in its buildings. average, almost 500 kg of waste sult of the population shift between (Source: Eurostat, June 2019 data). age groups, the old-age dependency The trend is also affecting real estate. ratio in the EU-28 is projected to alThe number of authorised parking Aware of its impact during (re)developmost double, going from 30.5% in 2018 spaces is decreasing in order to push ment works, Cofinimmo seeks to select to 54.1% by 2080. The total age-related abandoned vehicles out of the cities. sustainable materials that can easily dependency ratio is projected to rise More and more charging stations for be recycled or, preferably, reused. This from 54.6% in 2018 to 79.8% by 2080 electric vehicles are being installed. practice is in line with its reflection ini(source: Eurostat, June 2019 data). The number of bicycle racks is intiated over a year ago on the life cycle creasing. Parking areas are built in a of its buildings. When buildings are deThis trend is addressed by the core way that they can eventually be reasmolished, the waste is also very strictstrategy of Cofinimmo, which, through signed to another use. Larger drop-off ly sorted. This is also the case in office its healthcare real estate segment, areas are provided for taxi services or buildings in operation, where every aims to meet the needs of society, parcel delivery vans. effort is made to promote sorting, and namely: offering housing to the elderly, when possible going beyond the legal whether ill, disabled or undergoing rerequirements. habilitation; creating mixed neighbour16 COFINIMMO SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2019 De Gerstjens nursing and care home – Aalst (BE) WELL-BEING AT WORK repetitive tasks and today provides EVOLVING TECHNOLOGY IN support in more complex intellectual HEALTHCARE In the countries where Cofinimmo is processes. present, there is a gradual decrease Technology is enabling a gradual shift in the proportion of working people yy In client relationships: from curative to preventive medicine. due to population ageing, on the one The appearance of remote monitoring {{ When selecting premises, new hand, and to lower birth rates, on the devices and portable sensors enatechnologies optimise the deciother hand. This phenomenon should bles doctors to have a more dynamic sion-making process on the basis accelerate between 2020 and 2030. picture of their patients’ health and, of complex criteria, such as travel This situation is gradually leading to a whenever possible, to more quickly time between home and work for talent war in which the winning company adapt their treatment based on their employees and visitors, and sewill be the one in a position to provide condition. These sensors can even aulected transport modes. its employees with work-life balance, tomatically send a message to emera degree of physical and mental well{{ Visits can be done virtually without gency services if there are serious being and, above all, meaningful work. travel, using a digital tablet or a anomalies in a patient’s parameters. virtual reality headset, and layouts All these possibilities have an impact In this context, Cofinimmo seeks to ofcan be selected dynamically. on healthcare infrastructure: hospital fer its clients safety and well-being in stays are now shorter. its buildings, and innovative infrastruc{{ Working space becomes more perture is therefore made available and sonalised and is directly controlled Other types of healthcare real estate offered through partners. In particular, through one's smartphone: temproperties are being developed to they comprise concierge-type servicperature, lighting, etc. meet the needs of an ageing populaes much like in the hotel industry. This tion, which nevertheless remains very yy In equipment maintenance and includes, for example, play and relaxaautonomous: rehabilitation centres, failure management: augmented tion areas, a fitness centre, personal day centres, etc. This new generation reality will guide technicians in their services such as dry-cleaning, ironing, of senior citizens wants to stay in their maintenance tasks and provide them shopping home delivery, car wash, etc. own home as long as possible, and the with real-time image assistance. In changes in healthcare technology will New types of certification are suppleaddition, the enriched data provided make this possible. However, it will rementing existing environmental cerby communication between techniquire flexible housing design that can tifications (BREEAM, LEED, HQE, etc.). cal equipment (internet of things) enevolve according to a person’s stage They assess by assessing buildings ables to anticipate failures and carin life. according to their ability to meet hury out a first diagnosis enabling the man needs: access to quality air and technician to make targeted repairs. water, daylight, healthy food, contact yy In energy management: taking with nature, etc. into account the New Way of Working Every effort is made to ensure a in which employees no longer have healthy and pleasant working environallocated spaces, a smart building ment, which has a positive impact on approach enables the gradual and the well-being of employees, their moefficient occupancy of the building, tivation and their productivity. allowing empty areas to remain vacant and non-air-conditioned, which EVOLVING TECHNOLOGY TO in turn leads to energy savings. ENHANCE REAL ESTATE: INTERNET As refurbishments progress, OF THINGS, AUGMENTED REALITY, Cofinimmo is gradually integrating ARTIFICIAL INTELLIGENCE, technology into its buildings, making DIGITALISATION it possible to manage energy more It is difficult to imagine the future exefficiently and so doing reduce GHG tent and impact of evolving technoloemissions. gy in the real estate sector, but early experience can already provide some indications. Technology makes it possible to go beyond the automation of Major trends and their impacts on the materiality matrix COFINIMMO SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2019 17 Value chain Financing, skills and sustainable materials for the long term Quartz office building – Brussels CBD (BE) FINANCING SKILLS Cofinimmo’s mission is to enable its debt maturity and to guarantee the To implement projects which have shareholders to make long-term, company’s sustainability. In 2019, an environmental impact, whether low-risk and socially responsible Cofinimmo reviewed the Second Party it be the extension of a nursing and investments that generate a Opinion as part of the Green & Social care home or the conversion of an recurring, predictable and growing Bonds issued in 2016 and a new type office building, Cofinimmo has an stream of income, fuelling dividends of financing was launched in the form ISO 14001:2015-certified environmenand encouraging a return to the of a Green & Social Loan (see also tal management system running community. It must also have access to chapter ‘Profitability for investors and throughout the life cycle of its portfofinancing sources that are sufficiently access to capital’). lio (including its head office). The levers diversified and at the lowest possible applied at the different stages vary by cost to reduce the refinancing risk at business segment (see table below). Healthcare real estate Distribution networks Offices and PPP Acquisition Design Construction Marketing Operational management Development Cofinimmo’s influence : low medium high Cofinimmo’s influence is described in detail and by segment in the chapter ‘Management report’ of the 2019 Universal Registration Document (see pages 30, 44, 48 and 50). MATERIALS Cofinimmo has implemented a life the materials to be used and the proas Building Information Modelling (BIM), cycle analysis (LCA) procedure that gramme to be carried out for the works LCA makes it possible to map, evaluis intended to be very qualitative. (reuse of the internal elements). It ate and budget all the components of Reflection starts from the design (or also takes into account the building's a building prior to starting works on redevelopment) phase of a building future development potential. This the site. and helps make sustainable choices method is backed by the BREEAM ceron the construction principles (demtification and the ISO 14001 standard. olition or refurbishment) upstream, When combined with other tools, such 18 COFINIMMO SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2019 B S o s h r er s ar Banks nd hold e h old e Loans E q uity Acquisition P ort f o li o Design Co Ma r k e tin g n s t r u c ti o n t Op en Sale er a m ti o Tra n al ge n s p o rt m a na D Ra s ev n w m e ri al t elo p m e at Re W a ste c y c li n g Financing Skills Materials Value chain COFINIMMO SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2019 19 Dialogue with stakeholders As a real estate company and through its listing on the stock market, Cofinimmo enables as many people as possible to invest indirectly in real estate. Aware of the impact of its activities, it maintains a regular dialogue with its stakeholders at every stage of a building’s life cycle From the design stage and the perincluded in its corporate governance different countries. During these roadmit application, Cofinimmo organises charter, provides guidelines to each shows / conferences, it was able to meet consultation meetings with, among employee. The communication departapproximately 160 institutional invesothers, local residents, local government is there to guide and assist each tors and answer their questions on the ment and retailers. The aim is to strike department, where appropriate, in its company’s strategy. a balance between the interests of dialogue with its stakeholders. each stakeholder, in particular by takCLIENTS AND OCCUPANTS: Cofinimmo strives to improve the exing into account the importance of HEALTHCARE PROPERTIES OPERATORS, changes with each stakeholder on the respecting protected natural areas, RETAILERS, PUBLIC SERVICES, OFFICE material subjects relating to its activiheritage conservation, traffic in the TENANTS AND OTHER OCCUPANTS ties and to take them into account in neighbourhood, retail activity, resiits decision-making process. It also Depending on the business segment, dents’ well-being, etc. It also considers firmly believes that the involvement the first contact that a client has with the needs of future occupants and a of stakeholders is essential in order Cofinimmo takes place with the sales sufficient level of profitability to comto innovate and ensure its long-term team or the property managers. The pensate its investment. success. aim of the sales staff is to be able to In the building operation phase, best meet the needs expressed by But who are Cofinimmo’s key stakeCofinimmo regularly meets with its the client before a space is leased, holders? clients to assess their needs and their while that of the property managers satisfaction levels. is to ensure the client’s comfort and SHAREHOLDERS AND INVESTORS: satisfaction throughout the period of It also greatly values the motivation INDIVIDUAL OR INSTITUTIONAL occupancy of the building. If necesand commitment of each of its employSHAREHOLDERS AND FINANCIAL sary, the project management team ees, in particular by ensuring transINSTITUTIONS is also available to carry out leasehold parent and proactive communication, As a company listed on the stock marimprovements premises or to initiate performance appraisal, individual and ket, Cofinimmo has a duty to have a more structural projects in the case of team coaching, training processes, transparent dialogue with all its inveshealthcare real estate. work-life balance, accountability, etc. tors and to ensure they receive the In the office segment, the client meets In some cases, Cofinimmo interacts same information. with a Cofinimmo employee in person with its stakeholders in multiple ways: The people primarily responsible for at least once a year. In reality, there may a banker can, for example, be a capital this dialogue are first and foremost the be quarterly or even more frequent provider and, at the same time, a buildmembers of the Executive Committee contacts if telephone conversations ing tenant or even a local resident. and, more specifically, the CEO and the and e-mails are included. The client Each department of Cofinimmo is reCFO, assisted by the external communican also contact the company via the sponsible for identifying and intercation and finance departments. Service Desk, which is available 24/7. acting with its own stakeholders. The In 2019, the Service Desk responded In 2019, Cofinimmo participated in four company’s policy in terms of conduct, to 9,863 client requests. roadshows and 14 conferences in five 20 COFINIMMO SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2019 The Gradient office building – Brussels Decentralised (BE) In the healthcare real estate seger better and, if necessary, to identify to ensure the safety of all the people ment, in Belgium, France and the areas of improvement in the team dyinvolved. Netherlands, the client also receives namics. In the operation phase, Cofinimmo visits from Cofinimmo’s property Finally, the half-year and early-year meets on a monthly basis with the managers or their representatives. In individual performance appraisals are companies responsible for the mainteGermany, Cofinimmo has signed outan opportunity to more formally disnance of the technical installations of sourcing agreements for the technical cuss the expectations, role and obthe buildings it operates. These meetproperty management of buildings. jectives of each employee within the ings are an opportunity to, among othThe reason being that the buildings company. er things, discuss the best way to enare geographically dispersed. The sure the comfort of the occupants and number of visits therefore ranges from SUPPLIERS OF GOODS AND the safety of the technicians, to carry one per quarter to one every three SERVICES: out the maintenance of the installayears if Cofinimmo has no responsibilDEVELOPERS, CONTRACTORS, SERVICE tions and to limit energy consumption. ity in the management of the building PROVIDERS, FACILITY MANAGERS, REAL through the application of a triple net ESTATE AGENTS, LAWYERS, CONSULTANTS SUPERVISORY AUTHORITIES: lease contract. FINANCIAL SERVICES AND MARKETS Cofinimmo works with more than 1,700 AUTHORITY (FSMA), THE NATIONAL BANK, EMPLOYEES suppliers, the 20 largest of which acAUDITORS, MUNICIPAL, REGIONAL AND count for around 60% of expenditure. Due to the size of the company, FEDERAL AUTHORITIES These are primarily contractors res­ which currently counts approximateponsible for the (re)development of As a Belgian company listed on the ly 130 people, employees have regular buildings and companies that carry stock market, Cofinimmo contributes contacts with the human resources out regular maintenance on buildings to the economic life of the countries in manager or one of the members of (technical maintenance, energy supwhich it is active, in particular through the Executive Committee. Information ply, cleaning, etc.). the payment of taxes and duties. meetings open to all employees are organised on a quarterly basis and enThere are many interactions with all It maintains numerous relationships able discussion with members of the the suppliers of goods and services. with the public authorities by which Executive Committee. From the design phase of a building it is supervised to ensure the proper being (re)developed, Cofinimmo orpayment of taxes and the transparIn 2019, employees were also asked ganises meetings with the architects ency of the financial information pubto express their views through an enand, where appropriate, the contraclished. These contacts are maintained gagement survey. At the time of writtors. Subsequently, in the construcwith the finance team, but also with ing this report, the results were still tion phase, site meetings are held on the operational teams. Discussions being analysed. a weekly basis. These make it possible with the authorities take place on an Team-building events are organised to assess the works progress, to make ad hoc basis: during applications for as required in order for employees decisions on certain issues based on building, planning or environmental within a team to get to know each othunforeseen factors encountered and permits, for the validation of published Dialogue with stakeholders COFINIMMO SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2019 21 financial information and for audits of CIVIL SOCIETY, LOCAL the financial statements, etc. COMMUNITIES: LOCAL RESIDENTS, CIVIL SOCIETY MEDIA, FINANCIAL ANALYSTS ASSOCIATIONS, ETC. Through the 37 press releases and Cofinimmo pays close attention to its the half-yearly and annual finanimpact on civil society. In order to moncial reports that it published in 2019, itor its impact, Cofinimmo regularly Cofinimmo reached the entire financial takes part in conferences linked to its world with an interest in its activities. activities, gives interviews with jourAll this information is available in three nalists or agrees to help university stulanguages (French, Dutch and English) dents in the context of their academic on its website. The press releases rework. The company is also a member lating to its operations in Germany and of associations such as, for example, Spain are also published respectively The Shift, in which both businesses in German and Spanish. and NGOs participate. These fora are an opportunity to reflect on the potential improvement of its sustainability policy. CLIENT SATISFACTION SURVEY Most of the respondents (77%) OF OFFICE AND HEALTHCARE claimed to be generally satisfied BUILDINGS (for healthcare real estate this rate reaches 100%). During the months of September and October 2019, Cofinimmo carried The overall NPS is in line with the out a satisfaction survey among its values usually obtained in the real clients. The survey was addressed estate sector. The NPS for healthto tenants of office spaces and care real estate being particularly healthcare operators occupying the high. healthcare buildings managed by To thank the survey’s participants, Cofinimmo. In total, 162 responded Cofinimmo made a donation for to the questionnaire. each response received to the The questions related to the overall International Committee of the Red level of satisfaction of the clients as Cross/Red Crescent (ICRC). well as their level of satisfaction with regard to the contacts made, the buildings characteristics, the maintenance services, the works and the Net Promoter Score (NPS) 1. 1 The Net Promoter Score (NPS) is a measure of customer satisfaction, based on their propensity to recommend a brand, product or service. The calculation is based on the answer to the following question: On a score from 0 to 10, to what extent would you recommend our company/product/service? , 10 being the best score. Are considered promoters, customers who gave you a 9 or 10, passives those who gave you a score of 7 or 8, and detractors those Pub Cheval Marin whose score was comprised between 0 and 6. The NPS is calculated as follows: the percentage of promoters minus Brussels (BE) the percentage of detractors. THE SHIFT IS THE NATIONAL TOUCH POINT FOR THE WORLD BUSINESS COUNCIL FOR SUSTAINABLE DEVELOPMENT (WBCSD) AND THE UN GLOBAL COMPACT (UNGC). OVER 440 ORGANISATIONS FROM DIFFERENT SECTORS ARE Garden Square office building MEMBERS OF THIS NETWORK: – Antwerp (BE) BUSINESSES, NGOs, ASSOCIATIONS, UNIVERSITIES, PUBLIC BODIES AND OTHER KEY ACTORS IN SOCIETY. 22 COFINIMMO SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2019 SPHERES OF INFLUENCE ENVIRONMENTAL SOCIAL 197 6,552 HEALTHCARE BUILDINGS FOLLOWERS TWITTER/LINKEDIN SHAREHOLDING 184 (AS AT 31.12.2019 – IN %) TENANTS 0,2% 5,5% 17,759 RESIDENTS 2,4% 5,4 % Always Care-Ion 5,5% BlackRock 5,4% Autres investisseurs institutionnels 36,7% 2 Non-identifiés 49,5% GOVERNANCE DISTRIBUTION NETWORKS Actions enregistrées (investisseurs particuliers) 2,4% 36,7 % 1,722 Actions de trésorerie 0,2% 268 49,5% SUPPLIERS INSURANCE AGENCIES 129 million EUR 938 Always Care-Ion SERVICES PUBS AND RESTAURANTS BlackRock Other institutional investors Not identified 12 80 Registered shares (individual shareholders) BANKS OFFICE BUILDINGS Treasury shares 2.5 billion EUR 394 EQUITY TENANTS 1.7 billion EUR 27,804 BORROWED FUNDS OCCUPANTS Dialogue with stakeholders COFINIMMO SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2019 23 Clos Bizet nursing and care home Brussels (BE) STAKEHOLDERS: EXPECTATIONS AND RESPONSES Stakeholders Expectations Responses Shareholders and investors: -A regular, predictable and growing -A clear investment policy in the three dividend; business segments: healthcare real individual and institutional shareholders, estate, distribution networks and PPP, financial institutions -The protection of the invested capital; and offices; -A moderate risk profile; -A search for income over the long term; -The provision of transparent financial -Transparent financial information, audited information; by the external auditor, governed by the regulations and supervised by the -A long-term relationship; Financial Services and Markets Authority: -A socially responsible investment; annual report, participation to investor fairs, General Meeting, etc.; -The reimbursement of the debt and the payment of interests. -Full application of the corporate governance code. Customers and occupants: -A building in line with the specific needs -A team of professionals active in various of their activities; real estate fields: sales representatives healthcare real estate operators, retailers, to fully understand customers’ needs, public services, office tenants and other -The ability to innovate in order to meet project managers to ensure the buildings’ occupants changing needs; construction quality, property managers to ensure efficient management of -Rents in line with their financial potential buildings in operation and control of and transparent information on their rental expenses. rights prior to the signature of a lease; -A commercial offer with clear and -Control of rental-related expenses; transparent clauses. -A trustworthy, stable landlord; -Sustainable buildings. Employees -Pleasant working conditions; -A policy on good conduct; -Fair treatment; -A performance appraisal system between an employee and his/her manager -A guaranteed, stable and attractive wage addressing tasks, their execution, working grid; conditions and aiming at improving work quality through the conclusion of -A skills development plan (training, career agreements; prospects, etc.); -Access to training; -Management with strong ethical values, a sense of leadership and the ability to -Regular employee surveys; listen. -Fair treatment. Cofinimmo has signed the diversity charter of the Brussels-Capital Region, where its head office is located. 24 COFINIMMO SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2019 Stakeholders Expectations Responses Suppliers of goods and services: -Collaboration opportunities; -Clear specifications and tender rules; developers, contractors, service providers, -Compliance with purchase orders and -Acceptance of the products and services facility managers, real estate agents, lawysigned contracts: product and service delivered agreed on by both parties; ers, consultants prices, payment deadlines, etc.; -Payment of agreed amounts within the -A healthy, well-balanced commercial agreed deadlines; relationship; -Openness to dialogue in the event of a -Respect for suppliers’ staff. dispute; -A policy on good conduct that includes supplier relationships. Supervisory authorities: -Compliance with the laws and regulations -Financial publications and press releases in effect, particularly those governing that meet regulatory requirements; the Financial Services and Markets town planning and environment; Authority (FSMA), the National Bank, -Timely transmission of information on auditors, municipal, regional and federal -Open dialogue through professional the transactions carried out to enable authorities associations; the supervisory authority to review them without undue haste; -Compliance with public space planning rules. -Compliance with the legislation and procedures in effect and the forms required by the authorities. Media, financial analysts -Accurate, reliable information and timely -Annual reports, press releases and other dissemination. publications; -Participation in interviews, round tables, debates and roadshows; -Press conferences; -Non-financial ratings. Civil society, local communities: -A response to society’s actual real estate -Investment in segments that represent needs; a demand and respond to a present and local residents, civil society associations, future societal challenge (healthcare real etc. -A contribution to citizens’ well-being; estate, PPP); -Improvement of urban quality of life and -Respect for the neighbourhood when harmony; refurbishing buildings or during new developments; -Payment of taxes. -Citizens’ initiatives supported by Cofinimmo’s employees. The Gradient office building – The Lounge® Brussels Decentralised (BE) Dialogue with stakeholders COFINIMMO SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2019 25 Business ethics As a leader in the real estate market and a listed company, Cofinimmo demonstrates transparency and ethical behaviour towards its stakeholders in conducting its activities. It of course condemns any practices that are questionable or punishable by law (corruption, money laundering, undeclared work, social dumping, etc.) and also those that go against the principles of sustainability, fair treatment, equal opportunities and respect for others These operating principles apply to all the segments in which Cofinimmo is active and in all the countries where the company is established. 2019 PERFORMANCE INDICATORS No cases of misappropriation were identified. No cases of wrongdoing in calls for tenders were identified. 26 COFINIMMO SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2019 CORPORATE VALUES Cofinimmo has decided to demonand behaviours linked to these key strate certain values for the coming values. To do so, actions and proCUSTOMER CONNECTIVITY EXPERIENCE years: Connectivity, Accountability jects are specifically defined for each and Customer Experience. Beyond business segment. Here, the aim is to the concepts they encapsulate, these respond to the changes affecting soACCOUNTABILITY words were chosen to be closely in line ciety and to provide high-quality carwith company’s societal ambitions. ing, living and working spaces (‘Caring, Living and Working Together in Real As for the skills expected from every Estate’). Cofinimmo is committed to Challenging oneself is an attitude employee, the concepts of Reliability making its positive and sustainable that Cofinimmo has always adopted and Pioneer have been introduced. impact on the environment a reality. in order to perfectly fit into the dyThough trendy, these words mainly namic world we live in. In this spirit, aim at helping us define the attitudes CORPORATE GOVERNANCE Code’) mandatory for financial years The ERM model consists of the followbeginning on or after 01.01.2020. ing components : With respect to corporate governance, These Codes are available at Cofinimmo seeks to maintain the highyy the internal environment ; www.corporategovernancecommittee. est standards and continuously reasbe. yy the identification of objectives and sesses its methods in relation to the risk appetite ; principles, practices and requirements As at 31.12.2019, the Board of Directors of the field. states that, to its knowledge, its coryy identification, analysis and risk porate governance practice is fully mana­gement ; On 15.01.2020, the Extraordinary compliant with the '2009 Code'. The General Meeting of Cofinimmo apyy control activities ; Company has taken steps to abide proved statutory amendments followby the ‘2020 Code’. The Corporate yy information and internal communicaing the entry into force on 01.01.2020 Governance Charter, which provides tion ; of the Code of Companies and thorough information on the govAssociations (CSA), which replaces the yy surveillance and monitoring. ernance rules applicable within the Company Code. In particular, Cofinimmo Company, can be consulted on the THE INTERNAL ENVIRONMENT has opted for a one-tier governance Cofinimmo website (www.cofinimmo. structure, as provided for in artiThe concept of internal environment com). It was adapted on 15.01.2020 to cles 7 :85 et seq. of the CSA. Following includes the vision, integrity, ethical take account, on the one hand, of the the abolition of the Management values, personal skills and the way in entry into force on 01.01.2020 of the Committee (within the meaning of which the Executive Committee assigns CSA and the ‘2020 Code’ and, on the authority and responsibilities and orArticle 524bis of the Company Code), other hand, of the resulting amendganises and trains its staff, all under the the Board of Directors has delegated ments to the Articles of Association control of the Board of Directors. certain special powers to an Executive following the Extraordinary General Committee, composed of members The business culture of the company inMeeting of 15.01.2020. who may or may not be Directors. The corporates risk management at various members of this Executive Committee levels based on : INTERNAL CONTROL AND RISK are currently the same as those of the MANAGEMENT yy corporate governance rules and the former Management Committee. In Cofinimmo has implemented a risk existence of an Audit Committee, addition, the Board of Directors has management and internal control proa Nomination, Remuneration and entrusted the day-to-day managecess in accordance with the rules of Corporate Governance Committee ment of the Company to each of the Corporate Governance and the laws entirely composed of Independent members of this Executive Committee, applicable to public Regulated Real Directors as meant by Article 7 :87 acting together, and whose creaEstate Companies. §1 of the CSA and the ‘2020 Code’, tion and existence is provided for an Internal Auditor, a Risk Manager, in article 13 of the new Articles of To do so, the Group selected the a Management Controller and a Association. From 15.01.2020, the Enterprise Risk Management (ERM) Compliance Officer ; ‘Management Committee’ is replaced model developed by COSO (Committee by the ‘Executive Committee’. yy the integration within the Executive of Sponsoring Organisations of the Treadway Commission www.coso.org) Committee of the notion of risk for REFERENCE CODE AND any investment, transaction and as framework. COSO is a private sector CORPORATE GOVERNANCE commitment which may have a organisation. Its goal is to promote quali­ CHARTER significant impact on the company’s ty improvements in financial and nonfinancial reporting through the apobjectives ; This corporate governance statement is included in the provisions of the 2009 plication of business ethics rules, an yy the existence of a Code of Conduct Belgian Corporate Governance Code effective internal control system and dealing with conflicts of interest, ('2009 Code'), the 2020 Belgian enterprise governance rules. professional secrecy, rules governCorporate Governance Code (‘2020 ing the buying and selling of shares, Business ethics COFINIMMO SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2019 27 prevention of misuse of corporate sultants, independent real estate organisation, each for its respective funds, acceptance of business gifts, valuers, financial institutions, rating area of competence. The analysis is communication, respect for individagencies, financial analysts and carried out on the basis of the strateuals and a whistleblowing proceshareholders. gic choices, legal constraints and the dure, that are part of the Corporate environment within which the Company THE IDENTIFICATION OF Governance Charter ; operates, including risks related to susOBJECTIVES AND RISK APPETITE tainability, such as the impact of climate yy respect of the task separation prinCofinimmo’s strategy is defined every change on the Company’s activities. It ciples and the application of rules two years by the Board of Directors begins with the identification of potenregarding the delegation of powers based on a proposal from the Executive tial risks, their probability of occurrence clearly established at all levels of the Committee, taking into account the and their impact on objectives viewed group ; sustainability topics proposed by the from different angles : risks relating to yy the application of strict criteria for Sustainability Committee. It is then Cofinimmo's activities and its business human resources management, partranslated into operational, compliance segments, risks relating to Cofinimmo's ticularly with respect to selection, and reporting objectives. These apply financial situation, legal and regulatory staff recruitment rules, training polto all of the Company’s operating levrisks, risks relating to internal control, icy, periodic performance assessels, from the most global level to their environmental, social and governance ment procedures and identification implementation in the functional units. risks. The analysis is then formalised in of annual targets ; A budget, which translates the a document presented and discussed Company’s objectives into figures, is at an Executive Committee meeting. yy the existence of a Sustainability determined annually and reviewed It is updated throughout the year acCommittee whose mission is to idenevery quarter. It includes forecast cording to the evolution of business tify and continuously evaluate all revenue items such as rents for the activities and new commitments, taking elements that can improve the susyear as well as costs linked to the into account the lessons of the past. tainability strategy. It is composed management and development of the Moreover, as part of the major risks on the one hand of representatives property portfolio and financial costs analysis, this document is presented of the departments directly involved linked to the business financing struconce a year to the Audit Committee, in the real estate management of ture. The budget is validated by the which will use it, among other things, the Group's assets and on the other Executive Committee then submitted to decide on the audit assignments enhand, supporting departments such to the Board of Directors for approval. trusted to the Internal Auditor. as the legal, communication and human resources departments ; Furthermore, each major project unIDENTIFICATION, ANALYSIS AND dergoes a specific risk analysis based yy the monitoring of procedures and MANAGEMENT OF RISKS on an organised framework to improve the formalisation of processes ; This point includes the identification the quality of information used in the of risk events, their analysis and the yy an updated disaster recovery plan. decision-making process. measures taken to address them in an External players are also involved in effective manner. CONTROL ACTIVITIES this risk control environment. They An overall in-depth risk analysis of Controls are implemented in the variinclude, in particular, the Financial the Company is carried out periodicalous departments in response to the Services and Markets Authority ly in collaboration with all levels of the risks identified : (FSMA), company auditors, legal conFrench Red Cross aftercare and rehabilitation clinic (SSR) – Chalon-sur-Saône (FR) 28 COFINIMMO SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2019 yy at financial level : the differences between the estimated budget and the result achieved are reviewed quarterly by the Executive Committee, the Audit Committee and the Board of Directors ; yy at credit risk level : the solvency of the most important clients without a financial rating is analysed at different key points in time by the financial department. The amounts and validity of the rental guarantees established by all of the tenants are checked quarterly by the operational teams ; yy at rental level : half-yearly analysis of the rental vacancy, the lease terms and the risks and opportunities in terms of rental income ; De Pastorij nursing and care home Denderhoutem (BE) yy at accounting level : the use of an ERP application (Enterprise Resource Planning, that is, an integrated management software package), namely SAP, includes a number of automatic checks. SAP covers all accounting and financial aspects, as well as all data related to the real estate business (i.e. monitoring of rental contracts, rent invoices, statements of charges, orders, purchases, work site budget monitoring, etc.); yy at treasury level : the use of a range of financing sources and financial institutions and the spreading of maturities limit the risk of refinancing concentration ; yy interest rate risk is limited by the application of a hedging policy ; yy the use of cash flow software faciliINFORMATION AND INTERNAL yy the Executive Committee meets tates the day-to-day monitoring of COMMUNICATION weekly to systematically review imporcash flow positions and cash-pooling tant issues dealing with the compaInformation and communication between operations ; the various levels of the Company and ny’s operations and business and to the information they disseminate is based discuss in more detail property investyy the dual signature principle is apon work meetings and on reporting : ments and divestments, construction plied within the limits of delegations and rental matters. A report is created of power for commitments to third yy the Management Report, established for each meeting with, if necessary, an parties, whether this involves asset quarterly by the Controlling departaction plan for the implementation of acquisitions, rental transactions, orment, details the situation of the the decisions taken at the meeting. ders of any type, approvals of invoicincome statement and the balance es or payments ; sheet, the key performance indicators, SURVEILLANCE AND MONITORING yy the use of workflow software at the the acquisitions/sales situation and A closing is prepared each quarter different stages of the business actheir impact on the results. It also inusing the same procedures as for the tivity (leasing) strengthens the concludes an inventory of assets, project end of the financial year. On this occatrols at key stages of the process ; progress and cash flow positions. It is sion, consolidated accounts are estabdistributed to the management, the lished. Key indicators are calculated yy the register and movements of COFB heads of department and key individand analysed. The data is collected in registered shares are integrated in uals. It is discussed by the Executive the Management Report referred to in a secure IT application (Capitrack Committee, the Audit Committee and the point above. All of this data is disprogramme), developed and supthe Board of Directors ; cussed and analysed by the Executive plied by Belgium’s central depository yy each department also prepares periCommittee, the Audit Committee and Euroclear. odically specific reports about its own the Board of Directors. activities ; Each department also collects releBusiness ethics COFINIMMO SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2019 29 vant information at its own level which tions and the chain of controlled underis analysed quarterly and compared to takings are available on the website. the objectives set for the year. During At the closing date of this Document, the course of the year, the Executive Cofinimmo has not received any transCommittee regularly invites each head parency declaration presenting a situaof department to present an update tion subsequent to that of 18.02.2020. on the evolution of their specific busiAccording to the Euronext definition, ness activities. the free float is 95 %. Additionally, the assignments of the This table presents the situation based Internal Auditor cover various proceon the transparency declarations redures. The results of the audits are ceived under the Law of 02.05.2007. submitted to the Audit Committee, Any changes notified since 31.12.2019 which ensures implementation of the have been published according to the recommendations, and to the Board of provisions of the above-mentioned law Directors. and can be consulted on the company’s website www.cofinimmo.com. SHAREHOLDING STRUCTURE The Board of Directors declares that The table below shows the Cofinimmo the shareholders listed do not have difshareholders who own more than 5 % of ferent voting rights. the capital. The transparency notifica2020 OBJECTIVES Company % yy Continue to rigorously comply Always Care-Ion 5.5% with the transparency and ethics rules; BlackRock 5.4% Cofinimmo Group 1 0.2% yy Ensure, via the internal auditor Others < 5 % 88.9% and the tasks assigned to him, the identification of the risks of TOTAL 100.0% failure to comply with these rules; 1 The voting rights attached to the treasury shares have been suspended. yy Review the corporate values texts related to the good conduct policy. RISK FACTORS The risk of resilience to climate change is presented in the table below. Potential impact Mitigating factors and measures 1. Physical impact on buildings -Issue of Green & Social Bonds and Loans to refinance the acquisition and development of due to extreme weather high-performance buildings. (1, 2, 3) conditions. -Promote buildings with a good location in terms of mobility and sustainable modes of transport. 2. Changes to environmental (1, 2, 3) regulations. -Incorporation of flood risks and environmental aspects into the due diligence process at each acquisition. (1, 2, 3) 3. Negative impact on the value of a building. -Active policy aiming at optimising the energy performance of buildings, getting ahead of legislation whenever possible. (2, 3, 4, 5) 4. Increase in costs to be incurred to maintain a building in opera-Active policy aiming at optimising the water consumption of buildings, prioritising on the use of ting condition. non-drinking water whenever possible. (2, 3, 4, 5) -Construction and renovation of properties with an excellent energy performance by incorporating 5. Negative impact on the group's an analysis of the live cycle of buildings. (2, 3, 4, 5) ability to operate a building. -Purchase of 100% renewable electricity for buildings under management. (6) 6. Potential impact on the group's reputation. -Transparent communication on non-financial indicators in accordance with EPRA and GRI. (6) 30 COFINIMMO SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2019 GOVERNANCE STRUCTURE BOARD OF DIRECTORS COMPLIANCE OFFICER yy Decides the company’s strategic directions yy Ensures compliance with the Code yy Actively oversees the quality of management and its compliance to strategy of Conduct: conflicts of interest, yy Examines the quality of the information given to investors and the public incompatible mandates, compliyy Incorporates sustainability proposals into the global strategy ance with company values, market yy Provides the company’s entrepreneurial leadership abuse and manipulations yy Monitors risks and opportunities related to climate change yy Ensures compliance with all the legal and regulatory provisions in force AUDIT COMMITTEE EXECUTIVE COMMITTEE NOMINATION, REMUNERATION yy Assists the Board with respect to yy Handles the company’s day-to day AND CORPORATE GOVERNANCE the independence of the auditor management, under the chairmanCOMMITTEE and with respect to: ship of the CEO yy Advises and assists the Board for -the process of preparing financial yy Proposes the company’s strategy all questions relating to: and non-financial information to the Board -the composition of the Board, its -the effectiveness of the comyy Executes the strategy approved committees and the Executive pany’s internal control and risk by the Board Committee management mechanisms yy Approves the sustainability -the selection, evaluation and -the internal audit and its effecproposals submitted by the appointment of members of the tiveness Sustainability Committee Board and the Executive Committee -the legal audit of the annual and -the remuneration policy for the consolidated accounts members of the Board and the Executive Committee -corporate governance INTERNAL AUDITOR SUSTAINABILITY COMMITTEE yy Carries out all verification tasks yy Communicates the Group's achievements to all stakeholders under the chairbased on the Audit Committee’s manship of the the Head of Corporate Social Responsibility, reporting directly to a directives member of the Executive Committee yy Reviews the reliability, consistyy Evaluates and manages risks and opportunities related to climate change ency and integrity of information yy Proposes specific and economically reasonable measures to improve the environand operational procedures mental performance of the company, its portfolio and, by extension, the spaces yy Reviews the systems impleoccupied by its tenants mented to ensure that the yy Ensures that the group complies with legal, national and international environmenorganisation complies with the tal requirements rules, plans, procedures, laws yy Follows, in collaboration with the operational teams, the implementation in the field and regulations which may of the group's environmental strategy in all business segments have a significant impact on its yy Promotes dialogue with all stakeholders in order to determine where efforts must be operations made and to develop long-term partnerships which will increase the positive impact of the actions implemented Business ethics COFINIMMO SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2019 31 Profitability for investors and access to capital Profitability is essential to enable Cofinimmo to take up its responsibilities and pursue its activities. It enables the company to measure both its efficiency and the value that clients see in its products and services. It is a determining factor for the allocation of resources and the protection of investments on which its development and the production of its services are dependent. In case of insufficient profits 2019 PERFORMANCE INDICATORS or a fragile financial base, Cofinimmo ECONOMIC VALUE GENERATED AND DISTRIBUTED IN 2019 could not fully take Economic value generated Economic value distributed up its economic and (x 1,000 EUR) (x 1,000 EUR) social role + 254,639 20,620 CUSTOMERS PERSONNEL 28,314 129,241 SUPPLIERS OF SHAREHOLDERS GOODS AND SERVICES 24,761 + 226,325 FINANCIAL EXPENDITURE ADDED VALUE 7,714 PUBLIC SECTOR 182,336 TOTAL ECONOMIC VALUE DISTRIBUTED 43,989  ECONOMIC VALUE RETAINED WITHIN THE GROUP (X 1,000 EUR) 32 COFINIMMO SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2019 Management of financial resources Its debt and committed credit lines are Cofinimmo’s financial strategy not subject to any early repayment is characterised by the diversification clauses, or changes in margin, related of its financing sources, regular to its financial rating. They are usually access to the capital markets, subject to conditions related to : a debt-to-assets ratio close to 45% yy compliance with RREC legislation ; and an optimisation of the duration yy compliance with debt-to-assets ratio and the cost of financing. Cofinimmo levels and cover of financial charges by the cash flow ; also pays particular attention to the coherence between its financial yy fair value of the real estate portfolio. strategy and its ESG objectives (see At 31.12.2019 and throughout the 2019 chapter 'Strategy' of the 2019 Universal financial year, the ratios were met. In addition, no payment defaults on Registration Document). the loan contracts, nor violations of After being the first European real estate the terms and conditions of these company to issue green & social bonds same contracts are expected in the in 2016, Cofinimmo concluded in 2019 its coming 12 months. first bilateral green & social loan with a leading bank Loi/Wet 34 office building – Brussels CBD (BE) Profitability for investors and access to capital COFINIMMO SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2019 33 The Gradient office building – Brussels Decentralised (BE) FINANCING TRANSACTIONS IN EXTENSION OF THE COMMERCIAL INTEREST RATE HEDGES 2019 PAPER PROGRAMME Taking into account the decrease In view of the success of its commerin interest rates during the year, In 2019, Cofinimmo strengthened its cial paper programme, Cofinimmo inCofinimmo increased its hedging financial resources and balance sheet creased its maximum amount from portfolio in stages over a nine-year structure. The financing transactions 650 million EUR to 800 million EUR. This horizon. IRS covering the years 2022 over the financial year enabled the has been in effect since 28.03.2019. (150 million EUR), 2023 (375 million EUR), group to further increase the available At the end of December 2019, up 2024 (325 million EUR), 2025 financing, to reduce the average cost to 731 million EUR of the programme (475 million EUR), 2026 (500 million of its debt and to maintain its term. are used. EUR), 2027 (500 million EUR) and 2028 The operations described below illustrate the strengthening of Cofinimmo's (500 million EUR) were subscribed in CONCLUSION OF A NEW ‘GREEN & financial resources. order to increase the hedging over SOCIAL LOAN’ these years. The main long-term SIGNATURE OF THE EARLY In March 2019, Cofinimmo carried hedging transactions were carried REFINANCING OF THE out the early refinancing of a bilatout during the third quarter. SYNDICATED LOAN eral credit line, which was due to mature in August 2019, amountIn addition, caps (interest rate opIn order to maintain considerable uning 40 million EUR. This was initially tions with a maximum level of 0 %) used credit lines, Cofinimmo early a traditional credit line, which was were subscribed for 275 million EUR refinanced its 300 million EUR syndirefinanced in the form of a ‘green & in 2019 and 200 million EUR in 2020. cated loan on 01.07.2019. The success rate encountered with the various insocial loan’ with a term of seven and vited bankers during the syndication a half years. In accordance with its process resulted in an increase of ESG strategy and performance chart, the 300 million EUR syndicated loan the ‘green & social loan’ will be used to 400 million EUR, with eight particiby Cofinimmo to refinance projects pating banks and improved financing having both environmental and social conditions. This new syndicated loan objectives. has a term of five years with two additional one-year extensions and includes an option to increase the loan by 50 million EUR. 34 COFINIMMO SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2019 DEBT STRUCTURE Bank facilities yy 40 million EUR for drawdowns on commitCONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL DEBT ted bilateral credit lines maturing in the At 31.12.2019, the current and non-current consolidated financial debt was course of 2020 ; 1,745 million EUR. It consisted of the following : yy 6 million EUR of other loans. NON-CURRENT FINANCIAL DEBT As at 31.12.2019, Cofinimmo’s non-current financial debt was 874 million EUR, of which : AVAILABILITIES Bond market On 31.12.2019, availabilities on commityy 260 million EUR accounting for two straight bonds : ted credit lines reached 1,172 million EUR. After deduction of the backup of the Issuer Nominal amount Issue price Coupon Issue Maturity commercial paper programme, Cofinimmo (x 1,000,000 date date EUR) has 497 million EUR of available lines to finance its activity. Cofinimmo SA/NV 190 100% 1.929% 25.03.2015 25.03.2022 Cofinimmo SA/NV 70 99.609% 1.700% 26.10.2016 26.10.2026 DEBT-TO-ASSETS RATIO yy 55 million EUR of straight ‘Green & Social Bonds’: On 31.12.2019, Cofinimmo met the consolidated and statutory debt-to-assets ratio Issuer Nominal amount Issue price Coupon Issue Maturity test. Its consolidated debt-to-assets ratio (x 1,000,000 date date EUR) (calculated in accordance with the regulations on RRECs as follows : financial and Cofinimmo SA/NV 55 99.941% 2.00% 09.12.2016 09.12.2024 other debts / total assets) reached 41.0 % These bonds are part of the Euronext Green Bonds community, which brings (compared to 43.0 % as at 31.12.2018). As together European issuers of green bonds that meet various objective criteria. a reminder, the maximum debt-to-assets Cofinimmo is currently one of the only issuers listed in Brussels, together with ratio for RRECs is 65 %. a Belgian banking group and the Belgian State, participating in this committed When the loan agreements granted to European community. Cofinimmo refer to a debt covenant, they yy 2 million EUR for accrued interest not yet due on bond issues ; refer to the regulatory debt-to-assets ratio and cap it at 60 %. yy 228 million EUR of bonds convertible into Cofinimmo shares : Issuer Nominal Issue Coupon Issue Maturity Date WEIGHTED AVERAGE MATURITY OF amount price date date d’échéance FINANCIAL DEBTS (x 1,000,000 EUR) The weighted average maturity of the Cofinimmo SA/NV 219.3 100% 135,8237 0.1875% 15.09.2016 15.09.2021 financial debts remained stable, at four EUR years between 31.12.2018 and 31.12.2019. This calculation excludes short-term comThese convertible bonds are valued at market value on the balance sheet. mercial paper maturities, which are fully covered by tranches available on commityy 50 million EUR of long-term commercial paper ; ted long-term credit lines. yy 3 million EUR mainly corresponding to the discounted value of the minimum couCommitted long-term credit lines (bank pon of the Mandatory Convertible Bonds issued by Cofinimur I in December 2011. credit lines, bonds, commercial paper with Bank facilities a term of more than one year and term yy 267 million EUR of bilateral and syndicated loans committed, with an initial term loans), for which the total outstanding of five to ten years, contracted with approximately ten financial institutions ; amount is 2,209 million EUR, mature on a yy 8 million EUR in rental guarantees received. staggered basis until 2029. CURRENT FINANCIAL DEBT AVERAGE COSTS OF DEBT AND INTEREST RATE HEDGING As at 31.12.2019, Cofinimmo’s current financial debts amounted to 871 million EUR, of which : The average cost of debt, including bank Financial markets margins, was 1.4 % for the 2019 financial yy 140 million EUR accounting for a non-convertible bond : year, compared to 1.9 % for the 2018 Issuer Nominal amount Issue Coupon Issue Maturity financial year. (x 1,000,000 price date date EUR) Cofinimmo opts for the partial hedging Cofinimmo SA/NV 140 100% 3.598% 26.07.2012 07.02.2020 of its floating rate debt through the use of interest rate swaps (‘IRS’) and caps. yy 5 million EUR for accrued interest not yet due on the bond issue ; Cofinimmo conducts a policy aimed at yy 681 million EUR of commercial papers with a term of less than one year, of securing the interest rates for a proporwhich 314 million EUR with a term of more than three months. The short-term tion of 50 % to 100 % of the expected debt commercial papers issued are fully backed up by availabilities on committed longover a minimum horizon of three years. term credit lines. Therefore, Cofinimmo benefits from the attractive cost of such a In this context, the Group uses a global short-term financing programme, while ensuring its refinancing in the event that approach ‘macro hedging’. It therefore the issue of new commercial paper becomes more costly or impracticable. does not individually hedge each of the floating-rate credit lines. Profitability for investors and access to capital COFINIMMO SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2019 35 As at 31.12.2019, the breakdown of expected ter, on 12.07.2019 (in the absence of a fixed-rate debt, hedged floating-rate debt valid bank account number, the prefCOMPOSITION OF DEBT AS AT and unhedged floating-rate debt was preerence shares will be transferred to 31.12.2019 sented as shown in the graph below. Gestone III SA/NV, subject to transfer of As at 31.12.2019, the interest rate risk was the purchase price to the Deposit and 18% hedged at more than 60 % until the end Consignment Office). of 2024. Cofinimmo’s result nevertheless Gestone III SA/NV sent a conversion 40% remains sensitive to fluctuations in interest request for the purchased preference rates. shares to Cofinimmo. This conversion 29% into ordinary shares was also recordFINANCIAL RATING ed on 12.07.2019. As from this date, the 13% Since 2001, Cofinimmo has been grantCofinimmo capital consists exclusively ed a longand short-term financial rating of 25,849,283 ordinary shares, all apfrom the Standard & Poor’s rating agency. pearing in a single quotation line on Bank credits Euronext Brussels (vs. three lines beStraight bonds and long-term On 27.05.2019, Standard & Poor’s concommercial papers firmed the company’s BBB/stable outlook fore). Therefore, the company’s market Convertible bonds rating for the long term and A-2 for the capitalisation, which amounts to 3.4 bilShort-term commercial papers & short term. The group's liquidity has been lion EUR at 31.12.2019), is easier to perothers rated ‘strong’, based on high liquidity ceive than it used to be. available on credit lines. TIMETABLE OF LONG-TERM FINANCIAL PREFERENCE SHARE COMMITMENTS AS AT 31.12.2019 (X 1,000,000 EUR) its decision to designate one of its sub512 sidiaries – Gestone III SA/NV – as holder of the purchase right on preference 55 shares I (ISIN code BE 0003811289) and II 700 21 (ISIN code BE 0003813301), in accordance 80 600 with article 8.3 of the articles of associ105 100 ation. The company announced that 500 30 200 146 Gestone III SA/NV decided to exercise its 220 89 400 219 62 call option. 40 300 50 80 10 In accordance with the company’s articles of association, Cofinimmo offered the 200 10 25 holders of preference shares the possi100 100 40 15 bility to request the conversion of their preference shares into ordinary shares 0 (1 :1 ratio) for a period of one month, run2020 2021 2022 2023 2024 2025 2026 2027 2028 2029 ning from 29.05.2019 until 30.06.2019. Drawn credit lines Undrawn credit lines Straight bonds & long-term Convertible bonds During this conversion period, Cofinimmo commercial papers received conversion requests for 97.5 % of the outstanding preference shares. These conversions have been recorded BREAKDOWN OF FIXED-RATE DEBT, HEDGED FLOATING-RATE by notary deed on 12.07.2019 and resultDEBT AND UNHEDGED FLOATING-RATE DEBT AS AT 31.12.2019 – ed in the creation of a total of 680,603 IN % new ordinary shares of the company. 7 19 34 40 32 35 There has been no conversion request 100 for 1,257 preference shares I and 15,875 90 preference shares II as at 30.06.2019. 50 Therefore, these preference shares 80 were purchased by Gestone III SA/NV 70 47 on 12.07.2019. 60 58 46 57 50 44 49 The purchase price of the preference shares was set at their issue price, 40 34 i.e. 107.89 EUR per preference share I 30 21 and 104.44 EUR per preference share II, 20 11 11 in accordance with the articles of associ8 10 ation. 0 The purchase price of the unconverted 2019 2020 2021 2022 2023 2024 preference shares were paid on the bank Fixed-rate debt Unhedged floating-rate debt account of the shareholders concerned, Hedged floating-rate debt as mentioned in the shareholders’ regis36 COFINIMMO SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2019 INNOVATIVE USE OF GREEN AND SELECTION PROCEDURE IN LINE FUND ALLOCATION SOCIAL BONDS WITH THE SUSTAINABILITY Cofinimmo’s Treasury department enSTRATEGY sures that the funds collected through Cofinimmo is the first European real An assessment and selection framethe green & social bonds issue are alestate company to issue green & social work was defined and published on located exclusively, within the year folbonds. On 09.12.2016, Cofinimmo sucCofinimmo’s website. It was backed by lowing the issue and throughout the life cessfully closed a private placement of internal and external expertise. of the bond, to projects that make up the green and social bonds for an amount green & social portfolio. The distribution of 55 million EUR with an eight-year The current green & social bonds portof funds is as follows: 50 % is allocated to maturity and a 2.00% coupon. The folio consists of the projects listed offices with an environmental and sustaibonds, which were meant to (re)finance on pages 39-40. Their selection was nability certification, the other 50 % being projects with a positive contribution to based on defined criteria, such as fund allocated to healthcare assets dedicated sustainability, were placed with instituallocation and ESG criteria. The selecto the housing of vulnerable or detional investors. tion procedure was based on the expendent people in need of special care. pertise of Cofinimmo’s in-house teams This operation was subject to responsible for these projects, on AUDITING an external opinion from the the one hand, and on impact assessESG (Environmental, Social and Until the bond’s maturity in 2024, the ment studies, BREEAM requirements external auditor, currently Deloitte, will Governance) research and services and other external technical factors, annually assess the allocation of funds, agency Vigeo Eiris. on the other hand. Each assessment the compliance of the selected projects In March 2019, Cofinimmo carried step was approved by the Executive and the indicators. The audit report can out the early refinancing of a bilaterCommittee and was part of an analy­ be consulted in the Statutory Auditor’s al credit line, which was due to matical approach to a building’s life cycle. report (see pages 96-98). ture in August 2019, for an amount of 40 million EUR. This was initially a COMMITTED COMMUNITY traditional credit line, refinanced in As Cofinimmo pays particular attention the form of a green & social loan with to the coherence between its financial a term of seven and a half years. In strategy and its ESG objectives, it is part accordance with its ESG strategy and of the Euronext Green Bonds community, performance chart, the green & social which brings together European issuers loan will be used by Cofinimmo to refiof green bonds meeting various objecnance projects with both environmentive criteria (external reviews, compliance tal and social objectives. with international standards, frequent updating of the green & social financing framework, etc.). Cofinimmo is currently one of the only issuers listed in Brussels, together with a Belgian banking group and the Belgian State, participating in this committed European community. Profitability for investors and access to capital COFINIMMO SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2019 37 COMPONENTS OF GREEN & SOCIAL BOND PRINCIPLES Annual Project Fund manageExternal Fund allocation indicators selection ment auditing report CRITERIA AND OBJECTIVES : TWO CATEGORIES OF ELIGIBLE PROJECTS The funds are meant to (re)finance projects making a positive contribution towards sustainability. The buildings selected to make up the Green & Social bonds portfolio have been recently delivered, renovated or are under development and have environmental or social objectives. 50 % 50 % GREEN HEALTHCARE OFFICES REAL ESTATE Investments in existing/future green offices in Investments in existing/future assets providing Cofinimmo’s portfolio with an environmental and and/or promoting access to essential healthcare sustainability certification (BREEAM or BREEAM services for vulnerable groups of people and in In-Use with at least a Very Good rating). certain medical specialisations (psychiatrics, geriatrics or care for people with disabilities). Objectives Objectives yy Climate change mitigation by implementing yy Renovate and/or expand the healthcare real energy savings and the reduction of GHG estate portfolio to meet current and future emissions. needs for the housing and care of vulnerable people (nursing and care homes, revalidation, yy Environmental design and management of psychiatric and acute care clinics). projects through: yy Encourage healthcare operators to reduce the {{ energy performance scorecard; energy footprint of buildings by incorporating {{ equipment and installation upgrades. sustainable architecture, ecological materials and more energy-efficient facilities (construcyy Extension of BREEAM and/or BREEAM In-Use tion or renovation of buildings). certificates. SUSTAINABLE BENEFITS Climate change mitigation: Improvement of healthcare services: Reduction of GHG emissions. Increased provision of healthcare beds and services. Protection of natural resources: Water and energy savings, use of sustainable materials, etc. SELECTION PROCEDURES In line with the strategy Assessment and selection framework yy Improve the environmenyy Environmental criteria; yy Expertise of internal teams; tal footprint of the portfoyy Social criteria; yy External assessments and lio and the company; requirements; yy Governance criteria. yy Ensure the safety and yy Approval by the Executive well-being of occupants; Committee; yy Select socially-aware and yy Treasury allocation; responsible projects. yy Assessment by the external auditor. 38 COFINIMMO SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2019 GREEN & SOCIAL BONDS PORTFOLIO When the bonds were issued, certain indicators were not selected beforehand and are not included in the Second Party Opinion of Vigeo Eiris. They are therefore not applicable and are marked in this table with n/a (not applicable). GENERAL INFORMATION HEALTHCARE REAL ESTATE GREEN OFFICES RÉSIDENCE TILLENS VILLA SONNENMOND DOMAINE DE VONTES GUIMARD 10-12 Rue Beeckmanstraat 26 Am Stein 20 Vauguinier, BP 19 Rue Guimardstraat 10 1180 Brussels (BE) 56479 Neustadt/Westerwald (DE) 37320 Esvres-sur-Indre (FR) 1040 Brussels (BE) Eligibility criterion Nursing and care home Nursing and care home Aftercare and rehabilitation BREEAM Very Good clinic (SSR) Type of works/ Creation of an environment Nursing and care home, based Extension and renovation of Large-scale renovation of the asset maximising the lifespan of on a ‘Village in the building’ the aftercare and rehabilitation building to significantly improve people suffering from demenconcept, particularly well-suited clinic. its energy performance (insutia. The presence of green to people suffering from lated curtain wall with double spaces with appropriate plants dementia. glazing, installation of a heat provides real added value pump and condensing boilers, to this type of asset. Special LED lighting, etc.). attention has been paid to patient safety. Progress of Works completed Asset in operation Works completed Works completed works Tenant(s) Armonea Convivo Holding GmbH Inicéa Multi-tenants Above-ground 4,960 m² 2,940 m² 8,498 m² 10,410 m² surface area Number of beds 80 71 105 n/a Year of construc2015 2012 2019 2015 tion or last refurbishment Date Acquired on 29.07.2011 Acquired on 01.09.2017 Acquired on 13.02.2008 Acquired on 24.12.2004 of acquisition ALLOCATION OF FUNDS RAISED (55 MILLION EUR) Total cost of 31.0 million EUR projects 48.9 million EUR 16.4 million EUR 6.1 million EUR 8.5 million EUR Amounts 27.5 million EUR allocated 27.5 million EUR 15.0 million EUR 6.0 million EUR 6.5 million EUR % of allocation 50 % 50 % 27 % 11 % 12 % (Re)financing 100 % refinanced 100 % refinanced 100 % refinanced 100 % refinanced SUSTAINABLE BENEFITS Climate change mitigation and protection of natural resources GHG emissions n/a n/a n/a 22 kg CO2e/m² per year, based on location Yearly energy n/a n/a n/a 124 kWh/m² intensity Yearly water n/a n/a n/a 0.38 m³/m² consumption Improvement of healthcare services Number of beds Between 256 out of 2,583 beds in the categories nursing and care homes, n/a (new/existing) revalidation, psychiatric and acute care clinics. Medical Psychogeriatrics Psychogeriatrics Psychiatry n/a specialty Profitability for investors and access to capital COFINIMMO SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2019 39 GREEN & SOCIAL LOAN PORTFOLIO GENERAL INFORMATION HEALTHCARE REAL ESTATE GREEN OFFICES RONSSEWEG 5 BARONIE 149-197 CASTORSTRAAT 1 CHURCHILLAAN BELLIARD 40 Ronsseweg 5 De Baronie 149-197 Castorstraat 1 Koningin Maximastraat Rue Belliardstraat 40 2803 DB Gouda (NL) 2404 XG Alphen aan 2402 BV Alphen aan 1-67 1040 Brussels (BE) den Rijn (NL) den Rijn (NL) 3411 BE Lopik (NL) Eligibility criterion Nursing and care Nursing and care Nursing and care Nursing and care home BREEAM Excellent home home home Type of work/ Nursing and care Healthcare complex Residential complex The Lopikse Hoek The building was demolished asset home specially for people with for people with mental Residential Complex and rebuilt, illustrating the ‘life designed for people (mental) disabilities and/or physical in the centre of Lopik cycle’ approach adopted by with dementia with an with spaces for disabilities or with for people with mental Cofinimmo. emphasis on creating communal activities non-congenital brain disabilities. Lopikse The opening up of rue a sense of 'home' in and individual injury. The complex Hoek consists of Belliardstraat by the creation common and private apartments is composed of spaces for communal of a public space in front of the spaces. to promote spaces for communal activities and various building and the installation independence. activities and different private apartments of a transparent atrium with a individual apartments to promote the view on the interior garden bear to promote independence of the witness to the architectural independence. inhabitants. Lopikse audacity of the project, which is Hoek also offers work passive in terms of its energy activities during the intensity. day. Progress of works Asset in operation Works completed Asset in operation Asset in operation Works completed Tenant(s) Martha Flora Philadelphia Zorg Stichting Gemiva Philadelphia Zorg Multi-tenants Above-ground 3,074 m² 2,000 m² 3,967 m² 2,883 m² 20,323 m² surface area Number of beds 33 24 45 33 n/a Year of construc2014 2016 2016 2015 2018 tion and last refurbishment Acquisition date Acquired on 22.12.2014 Acquired on 24.12.2015 Acquired on 24.04.2017 Acquired on 25.05.2015 Acquired on 12.07.2001 ALLOCATION OF FUNDS RAISED (40 MILLION EUR) Total cost of 22.6 million EUR projects 47.4 million EUR 7.4 million EUR 2.6 million EUR 9.3 million EUR 3.3 million EUR Amounts 20.0 million EUR allocated 20.0 million EUR 6.0 million EUR 2.0 million EUR 9.0 million EUR 3.0 million EUR % of allocation 50 % 50 % 30 % 10 % 45 % 15 % (Re)financing 100 % refinanced 100 % refinanced 100 % refinanced 100 % refinanced 100 % refinanced SUSTAINABLE BENEFITS Climate change mitigation and protection of natural resources GHG emissions n/a n/a n/a n/a 20 kg CO2e/m² per year based on location Yearly energy n/a n/a n/a n/a 99 kWh/m² intensity Yearly water n/a n/a n/a n/a 0.03 m³/m² consumption Improvement of healthcare services Nomber of beds 135 out of 2,583 beds in the categories nursing and care homes, n/a (new/ existing) rehabilitation, psychiatric and acute care clinics. Medical specialty Geriatry Care for people Care for people Care for people n/a suffering from a suffering from a suffering from a disability disability disability 40 COFINIMMO SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2019 SZB Nursing and care home – Bad Sassendorf (DE) ESG-MANAGEMENT (AT 31.12.2019) ENVIRONMENT HEALTHCARE REAL ESTATE OFFICES TOTAL Environmental strategy Five-year portfolio renewal 7.5% 16.4% 8.5% objective Energy efficiency of buildings Yearly energy intensity (stand175 kWh/m² 201 kWh/m² 178 kWh/m² ardised by surface area) GHG emissions per year, 39 kg CO2e/m² 40 kg CO2e/m² 38 kg CO2e/m² based on location Estimated MWh (solar energy 704 MWh 1,185 MWh 1,889 MWh production) Cooperation with tenants to reduce the environmental impact of buildings Multi-tenant buildings n/a The Guimard 10-12 and the Belliard 40 are n/a equipped with remotely equipped with remotely readable meters. readable meters (in %) In total, 80% of multi-tenant buildings are equipped with remotely readable meters. Number of Green Charters n/a 21% of office spaces are covered by a Green n/a signed Charter. Number of inspection visits The seven healthcare properties in the n/a n/a Green & Social Bonds and Green & Social Loan portfolios received inspection visits. In total, 45% of the buildings in the healthcare real estate segment received inspection visits in 2019. During these visits, the environment-related aspects were discussed with the operator on-site. Inclusion of environmental factors in the logistics chain Materials reused after building n/a In 2019, no redevelopment projects were idenn/a refurbishment (in tonnes) tified where the opportunity arose to recover materials before demolition. Number of supplier contracts with environmental clauses The environmental policy is attached to all general contracting agreements. concerning major development and refurbishment projects Profitability for investors and access to capital COFINIMMO SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2019 41 SOCIAL HEALTHCARE REAL ESTATE OFFICES TOTAL Responsible customer relations Number of flexible contracts n/a In 2019, six contracts were signed in the Flex n/a (space, duration) Corners® for gross surface areas between 95 m² and 250 m² and durations between 12 and 36 months. Number of requests n/a In 2019, the Service Desk handled 9,863 n/a requests of which 142 in Guimard 10-12 and 418 in Belliard 40. Progress of asbestos detection The data for 74% of the portfolio have been 57% of the total portfolio is free of asbestos. For the global portfolio and removal processed. 51 % of the portfolio (including see chapter ‘Safety and six of the seven healthcare properties in well-being’. the Green & Social Bonds and Green & Social Loan portfolios) contain no traces of asbestos. Number of inspection visits The seven healthcare properties in the n/a n/a Green & Social Bonds and Green & Social Loan portfolios received inspection visits in 2019. In total, 45% of the buildings in the healthcare real estate segment received an inspection visit in 2019. During these visits, the social aspects were discussed on-site with the management. Inclusion of social factors in the logistics chain Number of controversies related to social aspects in the No controversies related to social aspects in the logistics chain were identified. logistics chain Promotion of social and economic development Number of contracts with a n/a A clause concerning the employment of a n/a clause for the promotion of trainee is included in all general contracting local youth employment agreements. Building accessibility Number of accessibility audits The compliance checks are part of the due 30% of the multi-tenant buildings have been n/a for persons with reduced diligence procedure and are regulated by a audited since 2013. mobility license for the operation of the assets. Number of audits for building At the time of acquisition an audit is not Quantitative audits for 100% of the portfolio n/a connectivity (proximity and mulmandatory but is often carried out proac(see page 61). ti-modal transport) tively (at the due diligence stage). Ploegdries nursing and care home Lommel (BE) 42 COFINIMMO SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2019 Altes Rathaus nursing and care home Front façade Chemnitz (DE) GOVERNANCE Prevention of corruption and money laundering Number of external audits and In 2019, two external audits were carried out by Deloitte on the accounts by Deloitte and one external audit on the controversies general IT controls. Audit and internal control Number of internal controls and In 2019, one mission of internal audit was carried out by the internal auditor on the IT purchase process and an assessment results on the implementation of GDPR. Moreover, at 31.12.2019, 25 recommendations are ongoing coming from the internal and external audit missions of 2019 and previous years, and 33 recommendations were closed in 2019. Altes Rathaus nursing and care home Rear façade Chemnitz (DE) 2020 OBJECTIVE Review the green and social financing framework to guarantee eligible assets. Profitability for investors and access to capital COFINIMMO SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2019 43 Innovation As a major property owner in Europe, Cofinimmo strives to be a visionary and to stimulate the debate on future real estate needs. It seeks to integrate major societal trends into its strategy to avoid the accelerated obsolescence of buildings and to preserve economic sustainability. Innovative solutions are therefore a must to create new growth opportunities and ensure the sustainability of the current portfolio The advent of new technologies has radically transformed the habits and expectations of consumers in all sectors. A few years ago, the real estate sector saw the emergence of a new community, called Prop Tech Lab, whose mission is to foster innovation in construction and real estate and to facilitate the digital transformation of the industry. Committed to integrating societal trends into its strategy, it was therefore only natural that Cofinimmo became a member of the Prop Tech Lab in 2019. 2019 PERFORMANCE INDICATORS 12,335 m² of shared space in portfolio (meeting rooms, Coffee Corner®, Flex Corner®, Lounges® and rooftop terraces). Badges for 50 office buildings managed remotely from a central system. 44 COFINIMMO SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2019 PROP TECH The term 'Prop Tech' comes from the MAJOR ISSUES FOR REAL ESTATE WHAT ARE THE ADVANTAGES OF contraction of the English words 'propPROFESSIONALS PROP TECH? erty' and 'technology' and refers to The new products and services Real estate is the largest asset class the movement launched by start-ups brought to the market by the start-ups in the world. In the real estate secwishing to improve or rethink the serlabelled 'Prop Tech' aim above all to tor in general and more specifically vices offered by the real estate sector meet the requirements of consumers for RRECs (Regulated Real Estate by integrating new technologies in and professionals, which are not very Companies), Prop Tech offers tools order to respond to the new consumpdifferent, and which can be summathat have become indispensable and tion patterns that are emerging in our rised as follows: firstly to save time and meet the specific needs of this sector. society. money, secondly to simplify the proceSome solutions make it possible to dures, and thirdly, to be able to take free up working time, time that can be A VARIETY OF SERVICES AND decisions more easily thanks to more devoted to tasks with greater added PRODUCTS precise data and more quickly thanks value. For RRECs, software tools alProp Tech is located at the crossroads to the means implemented. lowing them to improve their external between smart cities, real estate, communication also exist. Thanks to the sharing economy and Fin Techs SOME EXAMPLES OF PLATFORMS these tools, they can efficiently fulfil – some of the latter have actually deAVAILABLE IN BELGIUM their transparency obligations. veloped specialised platforms for real Commuty helps companies committed estate loans. to encouraging a different kind of mobility, whether it is travelling by bicycle Among the start-ups active in this field or carpooling. are small companies that support and assist the real estate sector through Building Information Modeling (BIM) the development of suitable software. helps manage the construction and For instance, these are designed to renovation of buildings. One can facilitate building management and generate 360° models of buildings and the progress and monitoring of conorganise virtual tours of sites. struction sites. Of course, the environEmis enables the monitoring and mental aspect also plays an important calibration of the energy intensity of role in the solutions offered. Examples buildings in order to reduce their enerinclude car-sharing platforms that imgy intensity. prove mobility, as well as intelligent glazing that helps save energy. Smart Real real estate estate Fin Tech Prop Tech Fin Tech Shared economy Source: https ://www.innovify.com/proptech/proptech-whats-next-in-2019 Innovation COFINIMMO SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2019 45 Arts/Kunst 46 office building – Brussels CBD (BE) ACHIEVEMENTS IN 2019 Cofinimmo has been following the DEMATERIALISED MANAGEMENT INSTALLATION OF GPON OPTICAL Prop Tech trend for several years now. OF MEETING ROOMS FIBRE Moreover, the group has developed a In 2016, Cofinimmo launched a platform A few years ago, Proximus launched partnership with several start-ups in that enables to dematerialise the sysa shared optical fibre system called order to simplify the management of tem used to manage meeting rooms GPON for Gigabit Passive Optical its assets and to reduce its inherent and the access to buildings. By means Network. This technology is mainly costs. A few examples of these partof a simple QR code, the Community used in the field of data transmission nerships can be found below. Manager of the buildings listed under networks and very high-speed internet the banner The Lounge® can grant a access networks and enables several OPTIMISATION OF PARKING limited access in time and space to companies to share a very high-speed SPACES people who have rented a meeting connection at a low cost. Cofinimmo Since 2012, Cofinimmo has been colroom. The special feature of this syshas recently installed this technology laborating with the company BePark in tem is that it not only allows access in several of its office buildings. order to optimise the management of to the meeting rooms, but also to the the parking spaces available in its ofbuilding and its parking lot. The advanfice portfolio. The objective of this coltage for the user is a considerable time laboration is twofold and aims not only saving since he/she can move freely in at increasing the occupancy rate of the areas to which the QR code gives the parking spaces, but also at avoidhim/her access. ing the potential costs caused by under-utilised parking spaces. Thanks to CENTRALISED BUILDING the platform provided by BePark, the MANAGEMENT average occupancy rate of the parking This system, marketed by Dinec, spaces located in the office buildings makes it possible to remotely manage owned by Cofinimmo currently exthe badges of the various office buildceeds 86%. In the long term, the group ings and to change the access authorwishes to extend this system to all its isations of a person à la carte without office buildings. this person having to physically return her/his badge, avoiding therefore unnecessary displacements. This system was introduced in 2017 and has greatly facilitated the management of the badges of the many tenants being part of the group's office portfolio. 46 COFINIMMO SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2019 Belliard 40 office building – Brussels CBD (BE) USE OF DRONES AND TIMELAPSE CAMERAS For some years now, our subsidiary Pubstone, which is responsible for managing the distribution networks portfolio, has been using drones to supervise and monitor the execution of roofing works. This system helps save time and money since the installation of scaffolding and/or a safety system is no longer required to access the roofs. Another process used by the group to supervise the progress of its major construction sites is timelapse. This technique consists of taking a series of photographs at regular intervals to monitor the progress of the works. Thanks to this system, the site managers can see in a few minutes the evolution that has taken place over a much longer period of time. 2020 OBJECTIVES yy Define and launch an efficient and sustainable data governance practice; yy Consider the introduction of electronic lease signatures and digital minutes of inventories; yy Explore the use of innovative construction materials. Innovation COFINIMMO SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2019 47 Aesthetics, respect for public spaces and diversity of districts As a property landlord and real estate investor, Cofinimmo is able to influence the aesthetics and diversity of districts through its investment choices and its construction projects, even though these are primarily based on economic considerations The sustainability of cities is based on urban balance. Offices, residential buildings, shops and green spaces must coexist as single-purpose districts are gradually bound to disappear. Through the reconversion of certain vacant office buildings, Cofinimmo can re-establish diversity in neighbourhoods from the design stage and so doing improve the attractiveness of buildings. The architectural aesthetics of buildings are a source of satisfaction for their occupants, and they contribute to the brand image of the companies that use them. The group strives for urban beauty and harmony by promoting the construction of iconic buildings. 2019 PERFORMANCE INDICATORS 50,477 m² Renovated/built thereby improving the average energy intensity of the portfolio. 48 COFINIMMO SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2019 REALISATIONS DELIVERED OR ONGOING IN 2019 Asset Type of works Number of Surface area End of beds after after works works works Healthcare real estate Belgium De Nootelaer phase II Renovation and extension of a nursing and care home 40 2,500 m² Q1 2019 Keerbergen De Nootelaer phase III Renovation and extension of a nursing and care home 40 2,500 m² Q2 2020 Keerbergen Zonneweelde – Renovation and extension of a nursing and care home – 200 15,000 m² Q1 2021 Rijmenam1 phase I France Domaine de Vontes Renovation and extension of a post-acute care and reha170 8,600 m² Q1 2019 Esvres-sur-Indre bilitation clinic (SSR) Les Oliviers Le PuyRenovation with creation of a special care unit 88 4,100 m² Q2 2020 Sainte-Reparade Croix-Rouge ChalonConstruction of a post-acute care and rehabilitation 130 9,300 m² Q2 2019 sur-Saône hospital (SSR) Netherlands Gorinchem Construction of a care centre for persons with mental 40 2,500 m² Q1 2019 disorder Fundis Rotterdam Demolition/reconstruction of a nursing and care home & 135 11,000 m² Q4 2021 renovation of the revalidation centre Rijswijk Construction of an orthopaedic clinic n/a 4,000 m² Q1 2020 Bergeijk Renovation of a medical office building n/a 3,400 m² Q2 2020 Germany Kaarst Construction of a psychiatric clinic 70 7,800 m² Q2 2020 Spain Vigo Construction of a nursing and care home 140 6,000 m² Q4 2020 Oleiros Construction of a nursing and care home 140 5,700 m² Q3 2021 Cartagena Construction of a nursing and care home 180 7,000 m² Q3 2021 Offices Quartz Demolition/reconstruction of an office building n/a 9,200 m² Q2 2020 DISTRIBUTIONS NETWORK: Realisations delivered in 2019 Location Type of works Belgium De Waaiberg Tervuursevest 60 – Roofs renovation and insulation • Façades renovation and painting Louvain/Leuven La Régence Place Fernand Cocqplein 12 – Joinery renovation on the floors • Main roof insulation • Façades renovation and Brussels painting, main roof insulation Oud Diest Grote Markt 17 – Diest Roofs renovation and insulation • Replacement of rear façade joinery • Façade renovation Café Cognac Grote Markt 21 – Alost/Aalst Roofs renovation and insulation • Façade renovation Café Noir Grote Markt 20 – Alost/Aalst Roofs renovation and insulation • Façade renovation Rozenbrouw Vlamingenstraat 71 – Façade renovation • Replacement of joinery Bruges/Brugge Netherlands Koningstraat 21 – Nijmegen Roofs renovation • Replacement of window frames • External painting works Ginnekenweg 3 – Breda Renovation of external joinery • External painting works Statenplein 149 – Dordrecht Roofs renovation and insulation • Façades renovation and painting 1 A second phase will be started in the course of 2020. Delivery of the works being planned for Q1 2021. Aesthetics, respect for public spaces and diversity of districts COFINIMMO SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2019 49 Sionskliniek healthcare DOKKUM (NL): RENOVATION OF A centre – Dokkum (NL) HEALTHCARE REAL ESTATE SITE In April 2019, Cofinimmo acquired the Sionsberg healthcare real estate site in Dokkum, in the province of Friesland in the Netherlands. The care centre has been an important and renowned healthcare centre in Friesland for over 60 years. It comprises two parts: the main building Sionskliniek , built in 1980 and originally a hospital, and the building Hoed, built in 2008. In 2015, the site was transformed from a hospital to a medical office building with an above-ground surface area of 15,000 m². The transformation has extended the life cycle of the site. In addition, the building is sustainably heated and cooled with low operating costs through aquifer thermal energy storage (ATES). The technical installations and the insulation of the roofs of the existing building from 1980 will be renovated to bring the energy label from D to A. The more recent building Hoed, built in 2008, already has energy label A and can be used flexibly, which is positive for the life cycle of the building over the long term. The site is ideally located in a green healthcare cluster, adjacent to a residential area and schools. It fosters social integration with hospitality services and green areas/recreation for the neighbourhood. The medical office building is easily accessible by car and public transport. Cofinimmo will assume, together with its local partners, the renovation and improvement of the sustainability of the building, and further develop the potential of the site, so that Sionsberg will offer a diversified range of care for the residents of Dokkum and at the same time keeps a full regional role in medical care. The works will start in the second quarter of 2020 and their delivery is planned for the fourth quarter of 2020. By putting its know-how to the service of this project, Cofinimmo illustrates its strategy which consists in redevelop­ ing older care buildings into futureoriented care facilities. 50 COFINIMMO SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2019 VIGO (ES): CONSTRUCTION OF A NURSING AND CARE HOME Early September 2019, Cofinimmo settled in Spain. As part of an initial programme of five construction projects in healthcare real estate, the company signed agreements (through its subsidiary Gloria Health Care Properties, S.L.U.) for the acquisition of a first plot of land in Vigo, in northwestern Spain, on which a nursing and care home is being built. With more than 250,000 inhabitants, Vigo is the biggest city in the province of Pontevedra and in the autonomous community of Galicia. Vigo is also the largest fishing port in Europe. The building will have a ground floor and seven storeys. It will offer 140 beds spread over an above-ground surface area of approximately 5,000 m². Works started in May 2019 and delivery is planned for November 2020. Built in a district where nursing and care homes are still missing, this building will complete Vigo’s network of nursing and care homes. It will have a very high A-level energy performance. Energy intensity will be limited thanks to, among others, LED lighting, a heat pump, condensing boilers and ventilation units with heat recovery in winter and free cooling in summer. Part of the electricity will be produced by photovoltaic panels. The building will also be easily accessible by public transport. A bus stop and a coach terminal will be Nursing and care home – within walking distance. A garden will Vigo (ES) be created behind the building. Nursing and care home – Vigo (ES) OBJECTIVE FOR 2020-2024 Delivery of construction, renovation and extension works for 10 % of the overall portfolio. Aesthetics, respect for public spaces and diversity of districts COFINIMMO SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2019 51 Safety and well-being The impact of real estate on the exterior environment is increasingly well managed. But what about its impact on the interior environment? In today’s society, it is not enough to just guarantee safety in buildings. Expectations have changed and buildings have to meet the functionality and well-being needs of communities for which hospitality plays a central role. This evolution is supported by new labels and benchmarks, and it is therefore essential that the buildings provided by Cofinimmo meet these new expectations. The development of Lounges® and Coffee Corners is part of this approach. 2019 PERFORMANCE INDICATORS EMPLOYEES' WELL-BEING Absenteeism 2019 2018 rate Short term 1.5% 1.5% Long term 2.9% 3.8% Work-related 0 1 accidents Number of 0% 0.0004% accidents/ worked hours 123 Employees 28 Employees working part-time : 8% 32 % Men Women 52 COFINIMMO SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2019 2019 PERFORMANCE INDICATORS ASBESTOS MANAGEMENT IN LEASED BUILDINGS 51 23 26 91 % Healthcare real estate 1,076,886 m² 53 39 8 Pubstone distribution network 327,846 m² Of the portfolio directly managed is 59 38 3 assessed in the form of a fire audit COFINIMUR I distribution network 57,909 m² and asbestos monitoring. 100 PPP 143,119 m² No infringements which might have No traces of asbestos 57 42 1 Traces of encapsulated a financial or health impact on the Offices 556,070 m² asbestos occupant has been detected during 57 29 14 Data being processed fire audits and asbestos monitoring Global portfolio 2,161,830 m² in the portfolio directly managed. 0 25 50 75 100 % REALISATIONS IN 2019 EMPLOYEES materials, the non-compliance with standing of their respective concerns Cofinimmo has always implemented safety standards and incorrect setand objectives. The outsourcing of a series of measures to promote the tings on air-conditioning equipment building and maintenance activities go well-being of its employees and the can have consequences on well-being hand in hand with strict monitoring of performance of their role under the and health. these subcontracting operations. best possible conditions. On arrival, Cofinimmo systematically analyses all In the context of large-scale renonew employees receive a welcome elements that are likely to have an imvations, Cofinimmo has employees pack setting out all the practical pact on public health. It is mandatory trained in safety coordination who measures and the workplace safety for the presence of asbestos, soil polidentify and monitor the risks and prestandards. Employees are individuallution and the fire fighting and protecventive measures to be implemented ly welcomed by the human resources tion elements in particular to be examfor each work site. Cofinimmo also calls manager on the one hand and the ined during the due diligence process. on external safety coordinators if remembers of the Executive Committee quired by the workload. In the context on the other hand. The asbestos risk for older buildings of calls for tenders, Cofinimmo clearly in the portfolio is closely monitored. Information meetings are organised describes the responsibilities of each Asbestos found in buildings is encapon a regular basis and allow all emparty in the specifications and consulated in the materials. In the event ployees to discuss with the members tracts. of deterioration, these materials are of the Executive Committee. In 2019, removed in accordance with the legal In the context of the portfolio mainemployees were also asked to express requirements ensuring public safety. tenance, Cofinimmo equips its buildtheir views in an engagement survey. ings with safety systems in order to The objective being to transform data The presence of relaxation and ensure the physical safety of suppliinto information, information into ideas well-being areas is now one of the criers (for example cradles and anchor and ideas into actions. teria for the selection of a building. In points for window-cleaning teams). this regard, yoga, bums & tums and Cofinimmo also pays close attention to Subcontractors’ services are covered relaxation sessions are organised in mental well-being and to the phenomby framework contracts to ensure the collaboration with the company Easy enon of stress at work. The increase in development of a mutually beneficial Day in the Lounges®, and occasionstress at work, which is very common partnership. ally followed by a healthy and vitain the business world, can have severe min-rich drink or lunch. The role of the consequences which can lead to burnCommunity Manager, who is responout in some cases. This type of condisible for the Lounges®, is to promote tion leads to the prolonged absence of initiatives having a positive impact on the affected person, and to disruption the well-being of the building’s occuand additional costs for the employer. pants. In 2019, one employee has been reintegrated after a long-term absence, for SUBCONTRACTORS other people win-win solutions have Cofinimmo always seeks to treat its been found. 2020 OBJECTIVES suppliers fairly during purchase negotiations and also places particular yy Analyse the results of the enBUILDING OCCUPANTS emphasis on the safety of its staff. gagement survey and draw an Construction choices and mainteaction plan; Commercial relationships can only nance quality have an impact on the be maintained through the mutual safety and well-being of occupants. yy Regularly inform employees on respect of all parties and the underThe presence of unverified hazardous the actions progress. Safety and well-being COFINIMMO SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2019 53 Employee training Human capital is a decisive competitive advantage for Cofinimmo, for the quality of the services that it offers to its clients but also for its economic and social performance In the medium term, Cofinimmo promotes the professional and personal development of every employee at each stage of his/her career. In the longer term, it aims to ensure that the end of a career is both rich in challenges and free of future concerns. Investing in its employees allows Cofinimmo to benefit from their increased effectiveness and commitment, and above all to meet its excellence objectives. 54 COFINIMMO SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2019 Managers (in place or potential) were, ACHIEVEMENTS IN 2019 2019 PERFORMANCE in turn, provided with (individual and/or INDICATORS INVESTORS IN PEOPLE (IIP) LABEL group) leadership and people manageIn 2006, Cofinimmo, together with fewer ment development courses to improve their understanding of the different, and 4.6 days than 10 other companies in the Brusselsvery specific, aspects of this role. In adCapital Region, obtained this valuable Of training per employee per year. dition to in-depth knowledge, the role accreditation which is extremely wideBelgian regulations require comparequires behaviours and approaches spread in the world, especially in Anglonies to provide an average of five that will generate motivation and comSaxon countries or in Flanders, but less days of training per employee. mitment on the part of their reports. in Wallonia. Since that date, Cofinimmo has manAll of these opportunities are provid4,544 hours aged to renew the accreditation every ed equally, regardless of the country in Cumulative total of training hours. three years, which highlights the fact which the employee performs his duties. that Cofinimmo invests in its employREMUNERATION POLICY 54 % ees and that it listens to them. Such an accreditation also makes it possible to The salary package Cofinimmo offers Of employees who attended one or its employees is based on identical criattract new talents that appreciate the more training courses. teria for every employee and takes into company’s sustainable approach. account an objective classification of In 2018, Cofinimmo achieved the renewal duties. It includes, among other things, 51 % of the accreditation for three years. The a benefit plan, a profit-sharing scheme Of university graduates. company has been fully committed since and, since 2009, a non-recurring bonus the previous renewal to achieve the Gold tied to company results. 40 % level. Given the issues of traffic jams and workOf postgraduates. CONTINUOUS TRAINING POLICY life balance, employees are expressing FOR EMPLOYEES AND MANAGERS the need to optimise the use of their time. In order to meet this request and 100 % Cofinimmo offers all its employees, withenable them to work remotely in an effiout any discrimination whatsoever, the Of employees receive regular persame training and development opporcient manner one day a week, Cofinimmo formance and career development tunities. has provided them with IT solutions (topreviews. of-the-range laptop computer, appropriIt is motivated by the desire to ensure ate telephone equipment) and added that each person is ready, at all times, for an internet subscription to the salary a new position within Cofinimmo or elsepackage. where, but also that his/her skills are in line with market requirements. Cofinimmo This is in addition to the other fringe promotes from within whenever possible. benefits they already enjoy (company car, group insurance, hospitalisation and Five areas of training are emphasised: outpatient insurance, meal vouchers and business-related technical skills, suseco-cheques, medical check-ups, Pilates tainability, languages, IT and personal classes, fresh fruit baskets, smartphone, development. laptop computer, option plan, etc.). Training courses are selected jointly by In its search for highly qualified prothe employee, his manager and the HR files, Cofinimmo draws from the same department. They take into account adtalent pool as other BEL20 companies. vances made by the competition and the However, most of them are much larger, sector, the development needs of the while Cofinimmo is closer in size to an teams, new trends, and also the potenSME. In addition to a dynamic culture tial for taking up a higher-level position. and shared values, Cofinimmo therefore pays close attention to alternative forms of remuneration to ensure the loyalty of the next generation of talent (profit-sharing scheme, non-recurring bonus tied to results, etc.). GENDER REMUNERATION RATIO % women/men 2019 2018 Board of Directors1 88 % 80 % Executive Committee2 73 % 71 % Managers3 90 % 89 % 2020 OBJECTIVE Employees4 88 % 82 % Continuous training for employees and managers. 1 The  chairman is male, which explains the difference at the Board level. Non-independent members are excluded from calculation, because they are included in the Executive Committee. 2 The CEO is male, which explains the difference at the Executive Committee. 3 The difference at manager level can be explained by the fact that there are more male operational managers. 4 At employee level, there is a small difference because a lot of women have an administrative assistant role. Employee training COFINIMMO SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2019 55 Diversity policy Cofinimmo firmly believes in the appeal of diversity (cultural, generational, linguistic, gender, etc.) for both the company and the community. Equal opportunities are a fundamental value for democracies Diversity within Confimmo is reflected in initiatives in the field of recruitment, staff management and external positioning. 56 COFINIMMO SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2019 RESPECT FOR DIFFERENCES AND Diversity Index' (in 11th place). On a globDIVERSITY AMONG EMPLOYEES CULTURAL DIVERSITY al scale, Cofinimmo is also among the Diversity management is an integral For more than ten years, Cofinimmo has best in class. After a survey conductpart of human resources managebeen granted the ‘Diversity Label’ which ed among more than 3,500 companies ment. Equity, also demonstrated by rewards initiatives in the field of recruitworldwide, the Equileap organisation the regular renewal of the company’s ment, staff management and external has included Cofinimmo in the top 100 'Investors in People' accreditation, positioning. of its 2019 ranking, in 75th place is sought in every area and at all levThe main goal of governance is to els : access to training, coaching and DIVERSITY WITHIN THE achieve quality, development and MANAGEMENT stress management, skills transfer, casustainability. The highest degree of reer management, etc. For many years, the majority of the management quality can be achieved group’s employees have been female Cofinimmo is one of the few Belgian through, among other things, diversity. and many of them have a management real estate companies where there is role. In total, 54 % percent of managers such a significant presence of women. DIVERSITY ON THE BOARD OF DIRECTORS AND ITS COMMITTEES are women, a proportion that demonFurthermore, employees have varied strates the equity with which the cultural origins and educational backDiversity on the Board of Directors is management team is organised. All grounds, which stimulates internal not only demonstrated by the high the female managers perform this role creativity and enhances team perforproportion of women, but also by the in several teams of the Finance and mance. Generational diversity, in turn, presence of three different nationLegal departments. helps bring together experience and alities and a variety of backgrounds. innovation, and in this way of finding This selection within the Board and All employees are offered flexibility in reproducible solutions. its Committees enables the company the organisation of their working life, to broaden its knowledge of the difwhich is mostly used by women but ferent countries and market segments is increasingly being used by male in which it operates. Furthermore, employees. The potential for developthe significant presence of women ment and growth within Cofinimmo reat Cofinimmo has been confirmed by mains unchanged for women returning several studies on gender diversity from maternity leave, as promotions in the governance bodies of Belgian are based on the recognition of talent companies. By way of example, the and skills, regardless of their origin. study carried out on gender diversity in corporate governance bodies by the organisation 'European Women On Board', the results of which were published in the newspaper l'Echo on 15.01.2020, indicates that Cofinimmo is the only Belgian company present in the European top 20 of its 'Gender Courthouse Antwerp (BE) Diversity policy COFINIMMO SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2019 57 Independent Gender ratio in % Age in % InternationBackground in % Average term of members/ total alisation rate office in % Men Women 31-50 > 50 years Financial Real Corporate years estate Board of 9/12 58 % 42 % 8% 92 % 33 % 25 % 33 % 42 % 4 years Directors (75 %) Executive 60 % 40 % 60 % 40 % 20 % 40 % 40 % 3 years Committee Audit 3/3 67 % 33 % 100 % 33 % 33 % 33 % 34 % 5 years Committee (100 %) Nomination, 4/4 75 % 25 % 100 % 50 % 50 % 50 % 3 years Remuneration (100 %) and Corporate Governance Committee 11 123 MANAGERS EMPLOYEES OF WHICH 11 MANAGERS 73 % 27 % 39 % 61 % Men Women Men Women Ratio 18 % 36 % 40 % 23 % < 5 years 11-15 years < 5 years 11-15 years 9% 37 % 15 % 22 % 6-10 years > 15 ans 6-10 years > 15 years Anciennity 72 % 23 % 31-50 years > 50 years 64 % 36 % 5% 31-50 years > 50 years < 30 years Age 100 % 87 % 12 % Belgian Belgian EU 1% non-EU Nationality 28 % 52 % Real estate Real estate 45 % 27 % 31 % 17 % Financial Corporate Financial Corporate Departments 58 COFINIMMO SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2019 ACHIEVEMENTS IN 2019 RECRUITMENT In 2019, Cofinimmo recruited 14 new colleagues in Belgium and one in France. Among these, four people have more than 50 years. The company’s outlook on talent aims to be diverse and open to all types of profiles. The company’s performance in terms of sensitive ratios (age, origin, etc.) continues to be a focus for the human resources department. STAFF MANAGEMENT Vlietoever nursing and care home Bornem (BE) Cofinimmo presents the Diversity Charter, which is an integral part of the 'Welcome pack', to all new employees on their first day. COMMUNICATION Today, the company’s external communication regarding its commitment to diversity occurs mainly through documents such as the Universal Registration Document, the Sustainability Report and the website. At the same time, Cofinimmo pays specific attention to internal communication by sharing a commitment to openness with all the stakeholders. Above all, the company is successful in creating among its employees a shared desire to commit to always performing better. De Bloken nursing and care home Wellen (BE) 2020 OBJECTIVES yy Pay attention to the men/women ratio ; yy Pay attention to the recruitment of young people by attending university employment days and being willing to offer traineeships to students during their studies. Diversity policy COFINIMMO SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2019 59 Mobility For a building to be attractive, it must be accessible. However, increasing vehicle traffic is making city travel more difficult and it creates discomfort for residents through increased air pollution and noise. This is why over the past few years many European countries have implemented a low emission zone in major cities Mobility-related emissions account for over half of a building’s ecological footprint. When looking at the whole life cycle of a building, the overall impact of travelling to a low energy intensity building located outside the city centre will be greater than that of travelling to a less energy-efficient building located in the city centre. While reducing car use to the bene­ fit of alternative transport modes (for example electric vehicles) has a positive impact on the environment and the well-being of people, this nevertheless requires the implementation of specific facilities. 60 COFINIMMO SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2019 2019 PERFORMANCE ACHIEVEMENTS IN 2019 INDICATORS FOR EMPLOYEES enables to manage the reimburseINFRASTRUCTURE Cofinimmo implements innovative ment of the kilometers travelled by FOR CYCLISTS cyclists. measures to facilitate the transition 13 % from cars to alternative mobility opA final incentive to reduce the numOf bicycle parking spaces available in tions, in particular through ‘cleaner’ ber of journeys travelled by car is to the office segment. vehicles. The mobility policy includes decrease the number of parking spacthe Ecoscore concept and promotes es available on arrival. Following the alternative mobility modes. The combiintroduction of the Cobrace (‘Code ELECTRIC VEHICLE CHARGING nation of a company car with a bicycle Bruxellois de l’Air, du Climat et de la TERMINALS and/or a public transport pass is now maîtrise de l’Énergie’), a mobility study possible. Moreover, the mobility coor1% dinator constantly encourages staff was carried out on three buildings in the Brussels office portfolio. Its aim Of car parking spaces equipped with to use alternative modes of transcharging terminals in the office segment. was to estimate the number of spacport. Since January 2017, new orders es required based on different puralready combine a company car with poses (visitors, deliveries, charging a sustainable mode of transport and SHARED AND PUBLIC PARKING terminals). If today the Brussels auSPACES diversification in the choice of fuel has thorities leave the choice between also been noted. 3% the payment of an environmental tax and the transition to shared/public car Shared equipment was also providOf parking spaces available in the office ed to all staff members as part of the parks for parking spaces that will no segment. transition. In this way, the fleet now longer be authorised at the end of the includes one electric car, one scooter, environmental permit, Cofinimmo conone Villo card and one electric bicycle. siders the second option to be more ACCESSIBILITY OF OFFICE Their use has encouraged some emsustainable because rotation makes it BUILDINGS (BY PUBLIC ployees to give preference to the elecpossible to increase the occupancy of TRANSPORT/BICYCLE) tric bicycle for commuting. Others are parking spaces. 22% planning to do so in the near future. 13% Fonds d’investissement [xxx – PY 26,5%] Mobility also plays a role in the healthFonds de pension [xxx – PY 4,7%] care real estate segment. Indeed, a Furthermore, Cofinimmo has providPrivate banking [xxx – PY 6,5%] 19 % ed IT solutions (top-of-the-range lapbuilding accessible by public transport Investisseurs particuliers [xxx – PY 13,8%] top computer, appropriate telephone is not only more interesting for occuFonds souverains [xxx – PY 0,2%] equipment) to de Actions all trésorerie its employees [xxx PYin or0,2%] pants, who can therefore meet more der to facilitate teleworking for those people and get around more easily, who are interestedd’assurances Compagnies in doing so.[xxx The– PY 10,2%] but also for visitors and staff. 46 % framework of this opportunity, set in Very good the Work@home policy, enable emGood ployees to work from home one day Acceptable a week. The consequences are douWeak bly positive and impact not only travel, which is decreasing, but also the well-being of the people involved. FOR CLIENT-TENANTS Cofinimmo’s main role is to raise awareness among its client-tenants. The bicycle, and especially the electric bicycle, has become a real competitor for the car for commuting journeys going from 10 to 20 km. It is therefore essential to improve facilities in office buildings. For cyclists, this means bi2020 OBJECTIVES cycle parking spaces, preferably covyy Gradually improve infrastructures ered, but also showers, with or without for cyclists ; storage lockers. yy Examine the gradual conversion However, the introduction of specific of 1,500 parking spaces into equipment does not stop there. The public parking spaces as permits use of electric vehicles in response to are being renewed, following the the issue of increasing vehicle traffic Cobrace regulation ; requires, for example, the installation of charging terminals. For several yy Improve the average CO 2 emisyears now, a carpooling platform exists sions of the fleet. within the company. This platform also Mobilité COFINIMMO SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2019 61 Energy intensity and GHG emissions In Europe, the real estate sector is responsible for 40% of greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions. In light of this fact, Cofinimmo wishes to limit the emissions resulting from the operation of the buildings in its portfolio and strives to ensure these offer optimal energy performance Buildings that have better energy performance are more attractive from a commercial point of view as they offer occupants both greater comfort and lower rental-related expenses. 2019 PERFORMANCE INDICATORS 178 tonnes of CO2 per million EUR1 GHG emissions intensity in relation to the real estate result. -0.3 % Decrease in greenhouse gas emissions. -2.7 % Decrease in electricity consumption. -0.5 % Decrease in fuel consumption with constant climate. 178 kWh/m² Energy intensity. 1 In the context of a carbon tax at 44.60 EUR/tonnes CO2, (Source: ‘ADEME’), this corresponds to a tax of 1.9 million EUR. 62 COFINIMMO SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2019 ENERGY INTENSITY (KWH/M 2) The European Union's commitment 246 250 226 to reduce its GHG emissions by 20% by 2020 and 40% by 2030 (compared 189 200 179 178 to 1990) has become the basis for regulations on the energy performance 150 of buildings. The consumption reports for Cofinimmo are available since 2010 100 and show a decrease in energy intensity of 18%, all segments combined. 50 0 2015 2016 2017 2018 2019 ACHIEVEMENTS IN 2019 MEASURE PREVENT Reducing energy intensity starts with What is the best way to actively partica better understanding of the building ipate in global efforts to reduce GHG portfolio. With this in mind, Cofinimmo emissions in the real estate sector? is gradually, and more optimally, recordIt is a matter of preventing consumping the consumption of the buildings’ tion through the redevelopment or facilities. The action plan implementlarge-scale renovation of the portfoed since 2013 in the office segment is lio (1.2% of the total portfolio in 2019). completed since 2018. Operators from Cofinimmo therefore strives to go as the healthcare real estate segment far as possible in terms of energy intenaccounting for 56% of the portfolio sity, often beyond legal requirements have taken the same step and autobut within the scope of the desired matically record their consumption. economic profitability. In the distribuIn 2019, a study was launched to equip tion networks segment, Cofinimmo the remaining healthcare real estate completed 101 interventions in 2019 as portfolio with automatic consumption part of its sustainability approach. THE PROJECT 30³ recording systems. RENEWABLE SOURCE Cofinimmo believes that it is possiAll multi-tenant buildings are therefore Although reducing energy consumpble to aim for a carbon neutral sociequipped with remotely readable metion is always a necessity, the overall ety by 2050 while guaranteeing the ters. These connect the facilities to the goal worldwide is to increase the share interests of all its stakeholders. energy accounting software. All the of renewable energy. The photovoltaic consumption data from all the shared panels installed in seven buildings of Its project 30³ is part of this apspaces managed by Cofinimmo, as the portfolio produce together 1,024 proach. The objective of this amwell as the private consumption data MWh per year. All the energy produced bitious project is to reduce its envoluntarily provided by the different is self-consumed. However, legal conergy intensity of 30% (compared to tenants (for example, the electricity straints make it difficult to expand prothe 2017 level) by 2030 to achieve consumption of 62% of the healthcare duction without becoming an energy the level of 130 kWh/m². To achieve real estate portfolio), are collected in supplier. Besides, in Belgium, only the this objective, a 360-degree apthis software. All the energy intensisubsidy system in the Brussels-Capital proach, which takes the entire life ty and GHG emissions data are availRegion is favourable to this type of incycle of buildings into account, will able in the ‘Key EPRA Performance stallation. As such, photovoltaic probe applied. Indicators’. jects, implemented under a third-party This corporate project concerns Cofinimmo has adopted the perinvestor scheme, release Cofinimmo of both the office and healthcare real formance measures advocated by all responsibility as an energy supplier, estate segments, as well as all acthe European Public Real Estate while making it possible to exploit artivities managed directly within the Association (EPRA). There are 28 of eas that cannot be used for other accompany such as sales and acquithem, corresponding to 21 GRI standtivities and also reduce the liquidity of sitions, development, project manards drawn from the Global Reporting the portfolio. This formula is therefore agement and day-to-day manageInitiative, which give a very clear piconly applied by way of exception. ment of the buildings. ture of the performance of the various In the healthcare real estate segment, buildings from year to year. operators also paticipate in third-party Energy intensity and GHG emissions COFINIMMO SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2019 63 investor projects for the installation of REDUCE photovoltaic panels and other equip2020-2030 OBJECTIVES The approach of reducing consumption ment with a positive impact on the net differs depending on the segment. For energy requirement. offices, Cofinimmo is often involved 8.5 % Cofinimmo Services and Superstone in the construction/renovation phase Renovation of the portfolio (excluding have moreover signed a contract for and in the day-to-day management of new constructions, extensions and the supply of electricity from renewaa majority of buildings. This situation acquisitions) for 2024 ble sources for the surface areas unenables to have an influence on consumption as soon as the building is ocder operational control in the healthcupied. At 31.12.2019, 40 tenants had 130 kWh/m² care real estate and office segments. Energy intensity targeted by 2030 The GHG emissions linked to this consigned a Green Charter (a sustainable tract are therefore reduced to 0. collaboration agreement that makes it possible to share consumption data 45 % and to implement initiatives to reduce Space covered by a Green Charter, it) covering 115,431 m², i.e. 21% of the a sustainable collaboration agreeoffice portfolio. ment between Cofinimmo and the In other segments, Cofinimmo’s intenant, in all segments by 2020 volvement is limited to raising tenants’ awareness. Building occupants are responsible for managing their own consumption. Cofinimmo’s involvement is in this case sometimes limited to the exchange of data. However, the company believes that landlords and tenants have a shared interest, namely that of reducing the environmental impact of a rented space. Sauvegarde nursing and Christinenhof nursing and care home Ruisbroek (BE) care home Lüneburg (DE) 64 COFINIMMO SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2019 FOCUS OOSTERKERKSTRAAT 1 LEIDEN Investments made to increase the sustainability of the building is reflected in the improvement of its energy label. Even if these investments do not lead to an increase in rent, they have a positive impact on the valuation of the building by the independent real estate valuer. Cofinimmo also took advantage of these works to remove the traces of asbestos still present. Investments : yy Insulation of the façade ; yy LED lighting in the common areas ; yy Renovation of the heating system including insulation of the pumps and pipes ; yy Replacement of the refrigeration unit ; yy Modernisation of the elevators ; yy Refurbishment of the entrance hall ; yy Reduction of the gas meter and reduction of consumption ; yy Roof insulation (in progress); Medical office buidling Oosterkerkstraat – Leiden (NL) yy Replacement of glazing (planned for 2020). The energy label has been upgraded from level D to level B on the basis of the works already carried out, which corresponds to an energy intensity of 185 kWh/m2 in 2018 and 124 kWh/m2 in 2019, i.e. a 33 % decrease. Energy intensity and GHG emissions COFINIMMO SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2019 65 EPRA performance indicators Cofinimmo is constantly seeking quality and transparency in its communication with its stakeholders. To this end, it applies the sustainability Best Practices Recommendations (sBPR), enacted by EPRA In September 2019, on the occasion of the conference marking its 20th anniversary, the European Association of Listed Real Estate Companies EPRA granted Cofinimmo, among other leading European listed companies, a Gold Award for the sixth consecutive year for the quality of its sustaina­ bility report. 66 COFINIMMO SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2019 ORGANISATIONAL BOUNDARIES CONSUMPTION ESTIMATIONS The portion of estimated data is higher in 2019 due to the will to close the The data is calculated based on inforThe consumption estimations for all non-financial data prior to the Audit mation in the possession of Cofinimmo the meters are made using the same Committee. For Cofinimmo’s head ofas landlord, and Cofinimmo Services formula and based on the data menfice, no data has been estimated. By and Superstone as managers of real tioned on annual invoices. In order to absolute indicator, the proportion of estate portfolios. It also includes the obtain an annual consumption correestimated data is expressed in perdata collected from the building ocsponding to a calendar year, an extra­ centage compared to the total per line. cupants. In this way, an operational polation of the consumption is made on control approach is adopted. Surface the basis of the last recorded annual THIRD-PARTY ASSURANCE areas under operational control (diconsumption for the missing period (for rectly managed) include Cofinimmo’s example: the consumption for the peAll the environmental, social and govhead office, the operational multi-tenriod going from June 2018 to May 2019 ernance performance indicators inant leases and medical office buildings will be used as a basis for estimating cluded in the pages 69-85 have been MOB (441,063 m2 /2,161,830 m²). Their the consumption for the period going subject to a third-party assurance 'GHG' emissions are considered as from June 2019 to December 2019). For by Deloitte Réviseurs d’Entreprisscope 1 and 2. fuels, the formula takes into account es SC s.d.f. SCRL (see the Statutory degree-days. The method has been Auditor’s report), in accordance with Cofinimmo has no operational convalidated and this data is verified for a ISAE 3000. This report provides an extrol over consumption in buildings in sample of sites during the third-party ternal and objective perspective on the the following segments: healthcare assurance. data and helps ensure that they accureal estate to the exclusion of MOB, rately reflect reality. No observations distribution networks and PPP, and Should the private consumption for were made. The indicators monitored single-tenant office buildings, which multi-tenant buildings be incomplete correspond to the 28 performance intogether represent 81% of the portbecause some tenants did not send dicators recommended by EPRA and folio. These buildings are indirectly the necessary information, the missrepresent 21 Global Reporting Initiative managed and their GHG emissions are ing private consumption is estimated disclosures (GRI Standards). They are considered as scope 3. based on the known average private considered to be material for the real consumption for other floors in the It is important to note that all portfolio estate sector. same building. buildings are included for non-financial indicators, without distinction between operational and financial leases. COVERAGE Coverage is always expressed in m² per segment. The surface areas used match the above-ground surface area of the buildings as in the chapter ‘Property report’ (see pages 8695 of the 2019 Universal Registration Document). The surface area used for the calculation of the intensity of the different environmental performance indicators is listed in a table at the beginning of the environmental perforNebo healthcare campus mance indicators (see page 69). La Haye (NL) By absolute indicator, the coverage is expressed as the number of buildings compared to the total number of buildings per line and as a percentage of surface area compared to the total surface area per line. For electricity, fuels and waste, the directly managed portfolio coverage is minimum 90%, the coverage for water is minimum 80%. Key performance indicators for 2019 COFINIMMO SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2019 67 BOUNDARIES ON CONSUMPTION no estimation has been made and the coverage is 100% for each indicator. Consumption data is provided directly Being part of Cofinimmo’s portfolio, the 62 % by the tenant for a sample of surface ENERGY COVERAGE head office is included in the consoliareas (54% of portfolio indirectly mandated results of the office segment. aged), comprising a mix of operational 44 % and financial leases. The social indicators related to the WATER COVERAGE employees cover all employees (123 In total, 100% of the consumption data for the private spaces of multi-tenant persons); or in Belgium (114 persons), 25 % in France (three persons), in the buildings is obtained by the landlord’s WASTE COVERAGE Netherlands (five persons) and in property manager (56%) or by the distribution network’s manager with the Germany (one person). All the other indicators only cover de surface areas 2,161,830 m2 formal agreement of the tenant (44%). SURFACE OF PORTFOLIO in Belgium (3,868 m2), since the surface Cofinimmo can only act on the conareas occupied in France (93 m ), the 2 The material stakes relating to energy sumption of the shared technical equipNetherlands (35 m2) and Germany (apintensity and GHG emissions are inment of the multi-tenant office buildings proximately 30 m ) are not material. 2 cluded in the chapter on pages 62-65. and healthcare properties for which The objectives relating to the coverage Cofinimmo Services and Superstone PERFORMANCE of energy intensity and GHG emissions handle property management, and of The results relating to electricity, fuel and are included in the ‘Dashboard‘ (see the head office (19% of the portfolio). water consumption, as well as waste, pages 86-89). cover buildings under Cofinimmo’s operNORMALISATION The ratio between the base salary ational control and those under the opand the salary for women and men is The normalisation is clearly indicated erational control of the tenants. increasing at all levels, demonstrating for each indicator. Fuel consumption The findings on the environmental inmore equal remuneration. is usually normalised to assess the dicators below concern the 2018-2019 harshness of the climate. The comparlike-for-like analysis of the results for PUBLICATION ison is based on normalised consumpbuildings under operational control. On tion, based on degree-days (DD). The All the environmental and social india like-for-like basis, there was a 1.6% denumber of DDs rises as it gets colder. cators are published in full in this chapcrease in emissions, with the following The average DD value for a location ter (see pages 66-85). breakdown: (established over the past 30 years) is yy a 2.7% decrease in electricity conThe information concerning the govcalled normal degree-days (NDD). sumption; ernance indicators is published in the Normalised consumption = 'Corporate Governance Statement' yy a 0.9% decrease in gross fuel conRecorded consumption x NDD / DD chapter (see pages 118-144 of the 2019 sumption. Universal Registration Document). The environmental intensity indicators Water consumption per m² is almost are always expressed per unit of surfour times higher in the healthcare real REPORTING PERIOD face area. The surface area used as estate segment than in the office segthe denominator is the above-ground The indicators cover the period ment. With a like-for-like asset mix, an surface area. from 01.01.2019 to 31.12.2019. A comparincrease in water consumption of 1.1% is ison is made with the 2018 figures. No observed. ANALYSIS PER SEGMENT adjustments were made to the 2018 With a like-for-like asset mix, the quanhistorical data on an individual basis. In addition to the distinction between tities of waste in tonnes decreased buildings under or without operational However, for the first time a distinction by 4.8% and almost half of the collected control, a distinction is made between has been made between GHG emiswaste is recycled. the following segments: healthcare sions based on location and emissions real estate, distribution networks and The 12 buildings with BREEAM or based on the market. PPP, and offices. The impact of the BREEAM In-Use certificates repreMoreover, emission conversion indicahead office is transparently communisent 5% of the portfolio. In the context tors has been used per country. The cated on a separate line. Segmentation of ISO 14001 certification, the principles consolidated emissions are therefore is therefore done in the same way as of BREEAM and/or BREEAM In-Use different but more in line with reality for the financial analysis. certification also apply to the overall compared to data published in the preportfolio. As with what is required for a Since environmental legislation as well vious report. BREEAM certificate, the same approach as CO2 emissions conversion factors is followed for property management, are different in each country, indicators MATERIALITY project management and development. are then analysed geographically withA complete materiality analysis was out the operational control distinction. More details on performance by indicacarried out and is documented in the tor is available on the following pages in chapter ‘Major trends and their imCOFINIMMO’S HEAD OFFICE the notes at the end of the results for pacts on the materiality matrix’ (see each indicator. In complete transparence, each indicapages 14-17). tor states the head office measures as All the 2019 data were taken from the This analysis showed that all the EPRA well as the evolution of the measures energy accounting. performance indicators are material and on a separate line. For the head office, therefore listed on the following pages. 68 COFINIMMO SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2019 PORTFOLIO COVERAGE BY INDICATOR AND SEGMENT (M²) Total Elec-Abs Elec-LfL FuelsFuels-LfL Urb-Syst Urb-SystIndir-Abs Indir-LfL Dir-Abs Dir-LfL WaterWaterWasteWastesurface Abs LfL Abs LfL Abs LfL area Healthcare real 1,030,630 641,465 490,463 581,825 419,669 6,538 0 648,003 490,463 581,825 419,669 398,884 379,410 estate Distribution 385,755 8,048 7,362 6,983 6,983 8,048 7,362 6,983 6,983 networks PPP 143,119 127,571 127,571 127,571 127,571 127,571 127,571 127,571 127,571 28,316 28,316 28,316 28,316 Single-tenant 188,264 162,140 145,122 184,204 164,311 162,140 145,122 184,204 164,311 168,718 131,081 144,150 103,997 offices TOTAL 1,747,767 939,224 770,518 900,583 718,534 6,538 0 945,762 770,518 900,583 718,534 595,918 538,807 172,466 132,313 indirectly managed MOB 46,257 28,095 22,106 18,969 18,969 28,095 22,106 18,969 18,969 18,915 13,924 16,913 14,435 Multi-tenant 363,938 363,938 334,467 360,245 334,467 363,938 334,467 360,245 334,467 321,852 308,137 353,330 327,552 offices – shared Private 205,008 205,008 182,964 205,008 182,964 (purchase by landlord) Private 158,930 158,930 151,503 158,930 151,503 (purchase by tenant) Head office 3,868 3,868 3,868 3,868 3,868 3,868 3,868 3,868 3,868 3,868 3,868 3,868 3,868 TOTAL 414,063 395,901 360,441 383,082 357,304 395,901 360,441 383,082 357,304 344,635 325,929 374,111 345,855 directly managed TOTAL 2,161,830 1,335,125 1,130,959 1,283,665 1,075,838 6,538 0 1,341,663 1,130,959 1,283,665 1,075,838 940,553 864,736 546,577 478,168 Total Elec-Abs Elec-LfL FuelsFuels-LfL Urb-Syst Urb-SystIndir-Abs Indir-LfL Dir-Abs Dir-LfL WaterWaterWasteWastesurface Abs LfL Abs LfL Abs LfL area Healthcare real 487,912 377,253 317,039 322,561 269,338 377,253 377,253 322,561 269,338 243,257 223,783 estate (BE) Healthcare real 209,771 150,565 150,565 140,946 135,857 150,565 150,565 140,946 135,857 146,015 146,015 estate (FR) Healthcare real 137,302 49,109 40,363 36,200 33,443 49,109 49,109 36,200 33,443 21,989 16,998 16,913 14,435 estate MOB (NL) Healthcare real 241,902 92,633 4,602 101,087 0 6,538 0 99,171 92,633 101,087 0 6,538 6,538 estate (DE) TOTAL 1,076,886 669,560 512,569 600,794 438,638 6,538 0 676,098 669,560 600,794 438,638 417,799 393,334 16,913 14,435 Healthcare real estate TOTAL Offices 556,070 529,946 483,457 548,317 502,646 529,946 529,946 548,317 502,646 494,438 443,086 501,348 435,417 Key performance indicators for 2019 COFINIMMO SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2019 69 ENVIRONMENTAL PERFORMANCE INDICATORS ENERGY INTENSITY (KWH/M 2/YEAR) Based on the GRI 302-1 and CRE1 disclosures Ratio between total energy consumed from all sources, i.e. electricity, fuel, urban heating and cold, divided per surface unit. Total of energy consumed where the numerator corresponds to the sum of the three following indicators in absolute value: electricity, energy coming from urban heating, fuels. The surface area used for the denominator corresponds to the above-ground surface area. Elec-Int Fuels-Int Energy-Int Normalised Energy-Int 2019 2018 ∆ 2019 2018 ∆ 2019 2018 ∆ 2019 2018 ∆ Healthcare real 59 62 -4.4 % 117 119 -1.3 % 177 181 -2.4 % 188 192 -2.1 % estate Distribution 37 44 -16.1 % 71 45 58.3 % 109 89 21.4 % 116 94 23.3 % networks PPP 43 42 0.8 % 69 62 11.8 % 112 104 7.3 % 118 110 7.8 % Single-tenant 173 169 2.8 % 87 65 32.8 % 260 234 11.1 % 268 240 11.8 % offices TOTAL indirectly 77 85 -9.8 % 104 96 7.9 % 180 181 -0.4 % 190 190 managed MOB 77 94 -18.5 % 49 60 -17.9 % 126 154 -18.3 % 130 159 -18.2 % Multi-tenant offices 98 98 -0.2 % 77 78 -0.8 % 175 176 -0.4 % 182 183 -0.3 % Head office 93 90 2.9 % 83 89 -6.0 % 176 178 -1.5 % 184 187 -1.5 % TOTAL directly 96 98 -1.5 % 76 77 -1.6 % 172 175 -1.6 % 179 182 -1.4 % managed TOTAL 82 89 -7.5 % 95 90 6.3 % 178 179 -0.6 % 187 187 1 The values shown represent the total consumption for the building, without differentiating between the private and shared areas. 2 Cofinimmo has no influence on the private consumption of the tenants in the buildings. It can only influence the consumption of the shared technical equipment of the directly managed buildings. 3 No information is available for the distribution networks in France and the Netherlands. Elec-Int Fuels-Int Energy-Int Normalised Energy-Int 2019 2018 ∆ 2019 2018 ∆ 2019 2018 ∆ 2019 2018 ∆ Healthcare real 49 48 3.5 % 128 124 3.1 % 177 172 3.2 % 190 184 3.5 % estate (BE) Healthcare real 90 88 2.1 % 113 101 11.8 % 203 189 7.3 % 213 198 7.7 % estate (FR) Healthcare real 92 104 -11.2 % 98 77 27.1 % 191 181 5.1 % 200 189 6.2 % estate + MOB (NL) Healthcare real 39 0 82 382 -78.6 % 121 382 -68.5 % 129 418 -69.3 % estate (DE) TOTAL Healthcare 60 63 -5.2 % 115 117 -1.4 % 175 180 -2.7 % 186 191 -2.4 % real estate TOTAL Offices 121 122 -0.8 % 80 73 9.2 % 201 195 3.0 % 209 202 3.3 % 1 The sharp decrease for healthcare real estate in Germany is due to the fact that for 2018 only data for one (energy-intensive) building were available. 70 COFINIMMO SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2019 70 TOTAL ELECTRICITY CONSUMPTION (MWH/YEAR) Based on the GRI 302-1 and 302-2 indicators Total electricity consumed from indirect renewable and non-renewable sources (indirect means that the electricity is produced off-site and purchased from an electricity supplier). Number of Coverage Elec-Abs Elec-LfL Electricity Estimated buildings in m² from renewaelectricity 2019 2018 2019 2018 ∆ ble sources consumption Healthcare real 114/182 62 % 38,063 32,810 30,071 30,887 -2.6 % 1.2 % 1.7 % estate Distribution 17/1,206 2% 300 346 297 346 -14.0 % 54.8 % networks PPP 4/7 89 % 5,428 5,384 5,428 5,384 0.8 % 1.9 % Single-tenant 25/28 86 % 28,122 35,782 26,743 26,646 0.4 % 0.6 % 2.6 % offices TOTAL indirectly 160/1,423 54 % 71,912 74,322 62,539 63,263 -1.1 % 0.9 % 2.3 % managed MOB 13/15 61 % 2,149 2,075 1,861 2,075 -10.3 % 5.2 % Multi-tenant 51/51 100 % 18,459 20,237 16,505 17,875 -7.7 % 2.2 % offices – shared Private 24/24 100 % 7,993 11,146 7,165 8,432 -15.0 % 0.6 % (purchase by landlord) Private 27/27 100 % 9,189 9,036 8,806 8,786 0.2 % 28.1 % (purchase by tenant) Head office 1/1 100 % 358 348 358 348 2.9 % 1.3 % TOTAL directly 65/67 96 % 38,148 42,841 18,724 20,297 -7.8 % 1.1 % 7.2 % managed TOTAL 225/1,490 62 % 110,060 117,164 81,263 83,560 -2.7 % 0.9 % 4.0 % 1 The values shown represent the total consumption for the building, without differentiating between the private and shared areas, except for directly managed offices for which there is a breakdown of the consumption of the shared technical equipment of the buildings and the private consumption purchased by the landlord and by the tenant. 2 Cofinimmo has no control over the private consumption of tenants in the buildings. It can only act on the consumption of the shared technical equipment of the directly managed buildings. 3 No information available for the distribution networks in France and in the Netherlands. Number of Coverage Elec-Abs Elec-LfL Electricity Estimated buidlings in m² from renewaelectricity 2019 2018 2019 2018 ∆ ble sources consumption Healthcare real 54/72 77 % 18,548 16,416 14,193 15,020 -5.5 % 0.1 % estate (BE) Healthcare real 34/48 72 % 13,547 13,331 13,547 13,331 1.6 % estate (FR) Healthcare real 21/39 36 % 4,539 5,139 4,192 4,611 -9.1 % 10.0 % 3.1 % estate + MOB (NL) Healthcare real 18/38 38 % 3,578 0 0 0 17.0 % estate (DE) TOTAL Healthcare 127/197 62 % 40,212 34,885 31,932 32,961 -3.1 % 1.1 % 1.9 % real estate TOTAL Offices 77/80 95 % 64,120 76,549 59,577 62,087 -4.0 % 0.9 % 5.2 % Key performance indicators for 2019 COFINIMMO SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2019 71 TOTAL FUEL CONSUMPTION (MWH/YEAR) Based on the GRI 302-1 and 302-2 indicators The types de fuel used are gas and fuel oil, and pellets. Number Coverage Fuels-Abs Fuels-LfL Fuel from Estimated fuel of in m² renewable consumption buildings sources 2019 2018 2019 2018 ∆ Healthcare real 104/182 56 % 68,172 60,777 50,271 51,254 -1.9 % 2.9 % estate Distribution 15/1,206 2% 498 315 498 315 58.3 % 56.6 % network PPP 4/7 89 % 8,800 8,372 8,800 8,066 9.1 % 3.6 % Single-tenant 26/28 98 % 15,936 13,810 13,948 13,226 5.5 % 5.4 % offices TOTAL indirectly 149/1,423 52 % 93,407 83,274 73,518 72,862 0.9 % 3.7 % managed MOB 9/15 41 % 934 1,138 934 1,138 -17.9 % 24.7 % Multi-tenant offices 50/51 99 % 27,699 31,932 25,723 27,018 -4.8 % 5.1 % Head office 1/1 100 % 322 342 322 342 -6.0 % TOTAL 60/67 93 % 28,955 33,412 26,979 28,498 -5.3 % 5.7 % directly managed TOTAL 209/1,490 59 % 122,362 116,686 100,496 101,360 -0.9 % 4.2 % 1 The values of fuels used concern 94.9% for heating gas and 5.1% for heating oil. 2 The values shown represent the total consumption for the building, without differentiating between the private and shared areas. 3 Cofinimmo has no control over the private consumption of tenants in the buildings. It can only act on the consumption of the shared technical equipment of the directly managed buildings. 4 The like-for-like analysis is based on the total consumption of the building, without differentiating between the private and shared areas. 5 No information available for the distribution networks in France and in the Netherlands. Number Coverage Fuels-Abs Fuels-LfL Fuels from Estimated fuel of in m² renewable consumption buildings 2019 2018 2019 2018 ∆ sources Healthcare real estate 47/72 66 % 41,392 42,996 32,396 35,297 -8.2 % 1.3 % (BE) Healthcare real estate 31/48 67 % 15,870 13,748 15,504 13,748 12.8 % (FR) Healthcare real estate + 16/39 26 % 3,560 3,412 3,305 3,347 -1.3 % 12.6 % MOB (NL) Healthcare real estate 19/38 42 % 8,284 1,759 0 0 14.8 % (DE) TOTAL Healthcare real 113/197 56 % 69,106 61,915 51,204 52,392 -2.3 % 3.2 % estate TOTAL Offices 77/80 99 % 43,958 46,084 39,994 40,587 -1.5 % 5.2 % 72 COFINIMMO SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2019 To assess the harshness of the climate, it is standard practice to compare the normalised consumption of fuels based on degree days (DD). The number of DD rises as it gets colder. The average DD value for a location (established over the past 30 years) is called normal degree days (NDD). Normalised consumption = Recorded consumption x NDD / DD Number of Coverage Normalised Normalised like-for-like Normalised buildings in m² consumption consumption MWh intensity kWh/m² MWh 2019 2018 2019 2018 ∆ 2019 2018 ∆ Healthcare real 104/182 56 % 74,777 66,462 55,141 56,049 -1.6 % 129 130 -1.0 % estate Distribution 15/1,206 2% 547 344 547 344 58.7 % 78 49 58.7 % networks PPP 4/7 89 % 9,652 9,155 9,652 8,821 9.4 % 76 67 12.1 % Single-tenant 26/28 98 % 17,480 15,102 15,300 14,464 5.8 % 95 71 33.2 % offices TOTAL indirectly 149/1,423 52 % 102,457 91,064 80,640 79,678 1.2 % 114 105 8.3 % managed MOB 9/15 41 % 1,024 1,244 1,024 1,244 -17.7 % 54 66 -17.7 % Multi-tenant offices 50/51 99 % 30,383 34,919 28,216 29,545 -4.5 % 84 85 -0.5 % Head office 1/1 100 % 353 374 353 374 -5.7 % 91 97 -5.7 % TOTAL directly 60/67 93 % 31,760 36,538 29,593 31,164 -5.0 % 83 84 -1.3 % managed TOTAL 209/1,490 59 % 134,217 127,601 110,233 110,841 -0.5 % 105 98 6.6 % 1 The 15/15 DD in Uccle/Ukkel for 2018 was 1,739.3. 2 The 15/15 DD in Uccle/Ukkel for 2019 was 1,734. 3 The NDD in Uccle/Ukkel was 1,902 (base year 2015). The decrease in gross fuel consumption is greater than the decrease in constant climate. Gross consumption decreased by 0.9%. Fuel consumption on a constant climate basis decreased by 0.5%. This demonstrates Cofinimmo's effort to actively reduce the direct emissions linked to the use of fuels. TOTAL DISTRICT HEATING AND COOLING CONSUMPTION (MWH/YEAR) Based on the GRI 302-2 disclosure Number of Coverage DH&C-Abs DH&C-LfL Energy from Estimated buildings in m² renewable energy 2019 2018 2019 2018 ∆ sources intensity Healthcare real 1/182 0.6 % 211 1,516 0 0 estate TOTAL indirectly 1/1,423 0.4 % 211 1,516 0 0 managed 1 The conversion factor used is 278 kWh/GJ. 2 Heat consumption accounts for 0.0002% of total fuel consumption. 3 Cofinimmo’s buildings are not supplied by district cooling. 4 No information is available for healthcare real estate in Germany supplied by district heating systems. Key performance indicators for 2019 COFINIMMO SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2019 73 TOTAL DIRECT AND INDIRECT GHG EMISSIONS (TONNES OF CO 2 E/YEAR) Based on the GRI 305-1, 305-2 and 305-3 disclosures Scope 1: amount of GHG emitted directly through the use of fuel on-site per year in the directly managed buildings. Scope 2: amount of GHG emitted indirectly through the purchase of electricity per year in the directly managed buildings. Scope 3: amount of GHG emitted directly through the on-site use of fuel per year and amount of GHG emitted indirectly through the purchase of electricity and district heating per year in indirectly managed buildings. Total: total direct and indirect GHG emissions. GHG-Indir-Abs GHG-Dir-Abs GHG-Abs GHG-Abs-LfL 2019 2018 2019 2018 2019 2018 2019 2018 ∆ Healthcare real 6,661 5,316 16,545 14,587 23,207 19,903 16,552 16,846 -1.7 % estate Distribution 51 59 122 77 173 136 172 136 26.9 % networks PPP 923 915 2,146 2,042 3,069 2,957 3,069 2,883 6.5 % Single-tenant 4,781 6,083 3,887 3,368 8,668 9,451 7,948 7,756 2.5 % offices TOTAL indirectly 12,416 12,373 22,700 20,074 35,116 32,447 27,741 27,620 0.4 % managed MOB 939 907 228 277 1,167 1,184 1,041 1,184 -12.1 % Multi-tenant offices 3,138 3,440 6,875 7,788 10,013 11,228 9,199 9,628 -4.5 % shared Private 1,359 1,895 1,359 1,895 1,218 1,433 -15.0 % (purchase by landlord) Private 1,562 1,536 1,562 1,536 1,497 1,494 0.2 % (purchase by tenant) Head office 61 59 79 84 139 143 139 143 -2.3 % TOTAL directly 7,059 7,837 7,181 8,149 14,240 15,986 13,094 13,882 -5.7 % managed TOTAL 19,475 20,210 29,881 28,223 49,356 48,434 40,835 41,502 -1.6 % 1 The values shown represent the total emissions of buildings, without distinction between the private and shared areas, except for multi-tenant offices for which there is a breakdown of the consumption of the shared technical equipment of the buildings and the private consumption of the tenants. 2 Cofinimmo has no control over the private consumption of tenants in the buildings. It can only act on the consumption of the shared technical equipment of the directly managed buildings. 3 The CO2 emission factor for electricity varies per country (Source: IEA 2019). Belgium: 170g CO2e/Kwh France: 69 g CO2e/Kwh Netherlands: 437 g CO2e/Kwh Germany: 417 g CO2e/Kwh 4 The CO2 emission factor is 226.7 g CO2e/kWh for gas in France and 243.9 g CO2e/kWh for gas in the rest of Europe (Source: Bilan Carbone V8.2). 5 No information is available for the distribution networks in France and the Netherlands. 6 The CO2 emission factor is 284.92 g CO2e/kWh for fuel oil (Source: DEFRA 2019). 7 The CO2 emission factor is 176.06 g CO2e/kWh for urban heat (Source: DEFRA 2019). GHG-Indir-Abs GHG-Dir-Abs GHG-Abs GHG-Abs-LfL 2019 2018 2019 2018 2019 2018 2019 2018 ∆ Healthcare real 3,153 2,791 10,096 10,487 13,249 13,277 10,314 11,162 -7.6 % estate (BE) Healthcare real 935 920 3,789 3,117 4,724 4,036 4,641 4,036 15.0 % estate (FR) Healthcare real 1,983 2,512 868 832 2,852 3,345 2,638 2,831 -6.8 % estate + MOB (NL) Healthcare real 1,529 0 2,020 429 3,550 429 0 0 estate (DE) TOTAL Healthcare 7,600 6,223 16,773 14,865 24,373 21,087 17,593 18,030 -2.4 % real estate TOTAL Offices 10,900 13,013 10,841 11,240 21,741 24,253 20,002 20,454 -2.2 % The conversion factors used above are based on location. 74 COFINIMMO SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2019 Taking into account the market conversion coefficients, the line 'TOTAL directly managed' (excluding private consumption of the offices) of indirect emissions becomes 0 following the green electricity contract that Cofinimmo Services and Superstone have signed for all the surfaces under operational control. GHG-Indir-Abs GHG-Dir-Abs GHG-Abs GHG-Abs-LfL 2019 2018 2019 2018 2019 2018 2019 2018 ∆ Healthcare real 6,976 4,672 16,545 14,587 23,522 19,259 15,941 16,218 -1.7 % estate Distribution 37 42 122 77 158 119 158 119 32.5 % networks PPP 666 661 2,146 2,042 2,813 2,703 2,813 2,628 7.0 % Single-tenant 3,252 3,829 3,887 3,368 7,139 7,197 6,685 6,497 2.9 % offices TOTAL indirectly 10,932 9,205 22,700 20,074 33,632 29,279 25,597 25,463 0.5 % managed MOB 0 0 228 277 228 277 228 277 -17.9 % Multi-tenant offices 0 0 6,875 7,788 6,875 7,788 6,393 6,590 -3.0 % – shared Private 0 0 0 0 0 0 (purchased by landlord) Private 1,128 1,109 1,128 1,109 1,081 1,079 0.2 % (purchased by tenant) Head office 0 0 79 84 79 84 79 84 -6.0 % TOTAL directly 1,128 1,109 7,181 8,149 8,309 9,258 7,780 8,029 -3.1 % managed TOTAL 12,060 10,314 29,881 28,223 41,941 38,538 33,378 33,492 -0.3 % 1 The values shown represent the total emissions of buildings, without dinstinction between the private and shared areas, except for multi-tenant offices for which there is a breakdown of the consumption of the shared technical equipment of the buildings and the private consumption of the tenants. 2 Cofinimmo has no control over the private consumption of tenants in the buildings. It can only act on the consumption of the shared technical equipment of the directly managed buildings. 3 The CO2 emission factor for electricity varies per country according to the residual mix (Source: AIB 2017) if the type of contract is unknown. Belgium : 122.76 g CO2e/kWh France: 57.34 g CO2e/kWh Netherlands: 530.69 g CO2e/kWh Germany: 731.53 g CO2e/kWh 4 The CO2 emission factor is 226.7 g CO2e/kWh for gas in France and 243.9 CO2e/kWh for gas in the rest of Europe (Source: Bilan Carbone V8.2). 5 No information is available for the distribution networks in France and the Netherlands 6 The CO2 emission factor is 284.92 g CO2e/kWh for fuel oil (Source: DEFRA 2019). 7 The CO2 emission factor is 176.06 g CO2e/kWh for urban heat (Source: DEFRA 2019). GHG-Indir-Abs GHG-Dir-Abs GHG-Abs GHG-Abs-LfL 2019 2018 2019 2018 2019 2018 2019 2018 ∆ Healthcare real 2,277 2,015 10,096 10,487 12,373 12,502 9,644 10,453 -7.7 % estate (BE) Healthcare real 777 764 3,789 3,117 4,566 3,881 4,483 3,881 15.5 % estate (FR) Healthcare real 1,268 1,893 868 832 2,136 2,725 2,043 2,162 -5.5 % estate + MOB (NL) Healthcare real 2,655 0 2,020 429 4,675 429 0 0 estate (DE) TOTAL Healthcare 6,976 4,672 16,773 14,865 23,749 19,537 16,169 16,496 -2.0 % real estate TOTAL Offices 4,380 4,939 10,841 11,240 15,221 16,178 14,238 14,249 -0.1 % Key performance indicators for 2019 COFINIMMO SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2019 75 GHG EMISSIONS INTENSITY (KG CO 2E/M²/YEAR) Based on the GRI 305-4 and CRE3 disclosures Total amount of GHG emitted directly and indirectly per m² and per year. The surface area used as the denominator corresponds to the above-ground surface area. GHG-Indir-Int GHG-Dir-Int GHG-Int GHG-Int-LfL 2019 2018 2019 2018 2019 2018 2019 2018 ∆ Healthcare real 10.3 9.9 28.4 28.5 38.7 38.4 37.9 38.6 -1.6 % estate Distribution 6.3 7.5 17.4 11.0 23.7 18.5 24.3 19.0 27.9 % networks PPP 7.2 7.2 16.8 15.1 24.1 22.2 24.1 22.6 6.5 % Single-tenant 29.5 28.7 21.1 15.9 50.6 44.6 52.0 50.8 2.3 % offices TOTAL indirectly 13.1 14.0 25.2 23.2 38.3 37.2 37.7 37.5 0.5 % managed MOB 33.4 41.0 12.0 14.6 45.4 55.6 48.8 55.6 -12.3 % Multi-tenant offices 8.6 8.4 19.1 18.9 27.7 27.3 27.5 28.8 -4.5 % shared Private 6.6 8.0 6.6 8.0 6.7 7.8 -15.0 % (purchase by landlord) Private 9.8 8.8 9.8 8.8 9.9 9.9 (purchase by tenant) Head office 15.7 15.3 20.3 21.6 36.0 36.9 36.0 36.9 -2.3 % TOTAL directly 17.8 17.9 18.7 18.7 36.6 36.6 36.5 38.7 -5.7 % managed TOTAL 14.5 15.3 23.3 21.7 37.8 37.0 37.2 37.8 -1.6 % 1 The values shown represent the total emissions of buildings, without distinction between the private and shared areas, except for multi-tenant offices for which there is a breakdown of the consumption of the shared technical equipment of the buildings and the private consumption of the tenants. 2 Cofinimmo has no control over the private consumption of tenants in the buildings. It can only act on the consumption of the shared technical equipment of the directly managed buildings. 3 The CO2 emission factor for electricity varies per country (Source: IEA 2019). Belgium: 170 g CO2 e/kWh France: 69 g CO2 e/kWh Netherlands: 437 g CO2 e/kWh Germany: 417 g CO2 e/kWh 4 The CO2 emission factor is 284.92 g CO2e/kWh for gas in France and 243.9 g CO2e/kWh for gas in the rest of Europe (Source: Bilan Carbone V8.2). 5 No information is available for the distribution networks in France and the Netherlands. 6 The CO2 emission factor is 284.92 g CO2e/kWh for fuel oil (Source: DEFRA 2019). 7 The CO2 emission factor is 176.06 g CO2e/kWh for urban heat (Source: DEFRA 2019). GHG-Indir-Int GHG-Dir-Int GHG-Int GHG-Int-LfL 2019 2018 2019 2018 2019 2018 2019 2018 ∆ Healthcare real 8.4 8.1 31.3 30.3 39.7 38.4 36.9 40.0 -7.7 % estate (BE) Healthcare real 6.2 6.1 26.9 22.8 33.1 28.9 33.5 29.0 15.3 % estate (FR) Healthcare real 40.4 44.7 24.0 18.9 64.4 63.6 69.5 74.3 -6.5 % estate + MOB (NL) Healthcare real 15.4 0.0 20.0 93.2 35.4 93.2 0.0 0.0 estate (DE) TOTAL Healthcare 11.2 11.2 27.9 28.0 39.2 39.2 38.4 39.3 -2.3 % real estate TOTAL Offices 20.6 20.7 19.8 17.9 40.3 38.6 40.6 41.5 -2.2 % The conversion factors used above are based on location. 76 COFINIMMO SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2019 Taking into account the market conversion coefficients, the line 'TOTAL directly managed' (excluding private consumption of the offices) of indirect emissions becomes 0 following the green electricity contract that Cofinimmo Services and Superstone have signed for all the surfaces under operational control. GHG-Indir-Int GHG-Dir-Int GHG-Int GHG-Int-LfL 2019 2018 2019 2018 2019 2018 2019 2018 ∆ Healthcare real 10.8 8.7 28.8 29.0 39.6 37.7 36.7 37.3 -1.6 % estate Distribution 4.6 5.4 17.4 11.0 22.0 16.4 22.4 16.8 33.4 % networks PPP 5.2 5.2 16.8 15.1 22.0 20.2 22.0 20.6 7.0 % Single-tenant 20.1 18.1 21.1 15.9 41.2 34.0 43.3 42.2 2.7 % offices TOTAL indirectly 11.6 10.4 25.2 23.2 36.8 33.6 34.9 34.7 0.6 % managed MOB 0.0 0.0 12.0 14.6 12.0 14.6 12.0 14.6 -17.9 % Multi-tenant offices 0.0 0.0 19.1 18.9 19.1 18.9 19.1 19.7 -3.0 % – shared Private 0.0 0.0 0.0 0.0 0.0 0.0 (purchase by landlord) Private 7.1 6.4 7.1 6.4 7.1 7.1 (purchase by tenant) Head office 0.0 0.0 20.3 21.6 20.3 21.6 20.3 21.6 -6.0 % TOTAL directly 2.8 2.5 18.7 18.7 21.6 21.3 21.7 22.4 -3.1 % managed TOTAL 9.0 7.8 23.3 21.7 32.3 29.5 30.6 30.7 -0.3 % 1 The values shown represent the total emissions of buildings, without distinction between the private and shared areas, except for multi-tenant offices for which there is a breakdown of the consumption of the shared technical equipment of the buildings and the private consumption of the tenants. 2 Cofinimmo has no control over the private consumption of tenants in the buildings. It can only act on the consumption of the shared technical equipment of the directly managed buildings. 3 The CO2 emission factor for electricity varies per country according to the residual mix (Source: AIB 2017) if the type of contract is unknown. Belgium : 122.76 g CO2e/kWh France : 57.34 g CO2e/kWh Netherlands : 530.69 g CO2e/kWh Germany : 731.53 g CO2e/kWh 4 The CO2 emission factor is 226.7 g CO2e/kWh for gas in France and 243.9 g CO2e/kWh for gas in the rest of Europe (Source: Bilan Carbone V8.2). 5 No information is available for the distribution networks in France and the Netherlands. 6 The CO2 emission factor is 284.92 g CO2e/kWh for fuel oil (Source: DEFRA 2019). 7 The CO2 emission factor is 176.06 g CO2e/kWh for urban heat (Source : DEFRA 2019). GHG-Indir-Int GHG-Dir-Int GHG-Int GHG-Int-LfL 2019 2018 2019 2018 2019 2018 2019 2018 ∆ Healthcare real 6.0 5.8 31.3 30.3 37.3 36.2 34.8 37.8 -7.8 % estate (BE) Healthcare real 5.2 5.1 26.9 22.8 32.0 27.9 32.4 28.0 15.8 % estate (FR) Healthcare real 25.8 33.7 24.0 18.9 49.8 52.6 54.7 57.7 -5.2 % estate + MOB (NL) Healthcare real 26.8 0.0 20.0 93.2 46.8 93.2 0.0 0.0 estate (DE) TOTAL Healthcare 10.3 8.4 27.9 28.0 38.2 36.4 35.6 36.3 -1.9 % real estate TOTAL Offices 8.3 7.9 19.8 17.9 28.0 25.8 28.7 28.7 Key performance indicators for 2019 COFINIMMO SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2019 77 TOTAL WATER CONSUMPTION BY SUPPLY SOURCE (M³/YEAR) Based on the GRI 303-5 disclosure The total volume of water consumed is used to supply the air-conditioning installations, the sanitary facilities and the kitchenettes. The only water supply source is municipal water. Number of Coverage Water-Abs Water-LfL Estimated buildings in m² water con2019 2018 2019 2018 ∆ sumption Healthcare real 69/182 39 % 376,751 458,137 368,822 370,429 -0.4 % 0.6 % estate PPP 1/7 20 % 33,377 31,414 33,377 31,414 6.2 % Single-tenant 22/28 90 % 33,148 29,263 26,686 23,383 14.1 % 12.1 % offices TOTAL indirectly 92/1,423 34 % 443,275 518,814 428,886 425,227 0.9 % 1.4 % managed MOB 9/15 41 % 4,190 3,440 3,429 3,440 -0.3 % 43.6 % Multi-tenant 47/51 88 % 89,966 95,548 87,166 85,188 2.3 % 5.7 % offices Head office 1/1 100 % 569 592 569 592 -3.9 % TOTAL directly 57/67 83 % 94,725 99,580 91,164 89,221 2.2 % 7.3 % managed TOTAL 149/1,490 44 % 538,000 618,394 520,049 514,447 1.1 % 2.5 % 1 The values shown are the total consumption for the building, without distinction between the private and shared areas. 2 Cofinimmo has no control over the private consumption of tenants in the buildings. It can only act on the consumption of the shared technical equipment of the directly managed buildings. 3 No information is available for the distribution networks. Park Lane office buildings Diegem (BE) Number of Coverage Water-Abs Water-LfL Estimated buildings in m² water con2019 2018 2019 2018 ∆ sumption Healthcare real 34/72 50 % 191,180 259,849 183,251 183,204 0.03 % 1.3 % estate (BE) Healthcare real 33/48 70 % 180,210 188,332 180,210 183,745 -1.9 % estate (FR) Healthcare real 10/39 16 % 6,367 10,465 5,606 5,413 3.6 % 62.8 % estate + MOB (NL) Healthcare real 1/38 3% 3,184 2,931 3,184 1,507 111.3 % 200.9 % estate (DE) TOTAL Healthcare 78/197 39 % 380,941 461,577 372,251 373,869 -0.4 % 0.5 % real estate TOTAL Offices 70/80 89 % 123,682 125,403 114,421 109,164 4.8 % 4.1 % 1. For healthcare real estate in Germany, the like-for-like data is based on one building. The 2019 consumption is estimated for eight months based on the consumption of the first four months of the year. This consumption – known at the beginning of 2019 – was higher than that of 2018, which explains the large increase. 78 COFINIMMO SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2019 WATER CONSUMPTION PER SURFACE AREA (M³/M²/YEAR) Based on the GRI CRE2 disclosure The surface area used as the denominator is the above-ground surface area. Water-Int Water-Int-LfL 2019 2018 ∆ 2019 2018 ∆ Healthcare real 0.94 0.93 1.7 % 0.97 0.98 -0.4 % estate PPP 1.18 1.11 6.2 % 1.18 1.11 6.2 % Single-tenant 0.20 0.17 16.8 % 0.20 0.18 14.1 % offices TOTAL indirectly 0.74 0.75 -0.2 % 0.80 0.79 0.9 % managed MOB 0.22 0.25 -10.3 % 0.25 0.25 Multi-tenant 0.28 0.23 20.5 % 0.28 0.28 offices Head office 0.15 0.15 0.15 0.15 TOTAL directly 0.27 0.23 18.6 % 0.28 0.27 2.2 % managed TOTAL 0.57 0.55 4.1 % 0.60 0.59 1.1 % 1 The values shown are the total consumption for the building, without disctinction between the private and shared areas. 2 Cofinimmo has no control over the private consumption of tenants in the buildings. It can only act on the consumption of the shared technical equipment of the directly managed buildings. 3 No information is available for the distribution networks. Office building Prins Boudewijnlaan 41 Antwerp (BE) Water-Int Water-Int-LfL 2019 2018 ∆ 2019 2018 ∆ Healthcare real estate (BE) 0.79 0.81 -3.0 % 0.82 0.82 Healthcare real estate (FR) 1.23 1.25 -0.9 % 1.23 1.26 -1.9 % Healthcare real estate + MOB 0.29 0.44 -34.2 % 0.33 0.32 3.6 % (NL) Healthcare real estate (DE) 0.49 0.25 93.1 % 0.49 0.23 111.3 % TOTAL Healthcare real estate 0.91 0.91 0.95 0.95 TOTAL Offices 0.25 0.21 17.7 % 0.26 0.25 4.8 % 1 For healthcare real estate in Germany, the like-for-like data is based on one building. The 2019 consumption is estimated for eight months based on the consumption of the first four months of the year. This consumption – known at the beginning of 2019 – was higher than that of 2018, which explain the large increase. Key performance indicators for 2019 COFINIMMO SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2019 79 TOTAL WEIGHT OF WASTE BY TYPE AND DISPOSAL ROUTE (TONNES/YEAR) Based on the GRI 306-2 disclosure Quantity of waste collected by disposal route: reuse, recycling, composting, incineration, landfilling, etc. The recycling (REC) and incineration (INC) of waste with energy recovery are the only disposal routes. Number Coverage Waste-Abs Waste-Abs Waste-LfL Waste-LfL ∆ of in m² 2019 2018 2019 2018 buildings REC INC Total REC INC Total REC INC Total REC INC Total PPP 1/7 20 % 14 67 81 15 61 76 14 67 81 15 61 76 6.5 % Single21/28 77 % 116 178 294 115 159 273 96 123 219 106 140 245 -11.0 % tenant offices TOTAL 22/1,423 10 % 130 245 376 130 220 350 110 190 300 121 201 322 -6.8 % indirectly managed MOB 8/15 37 % 23 76 99 20 60 80 21 66 87 20 60 80 8.8 % Multi49/51 97 % 528 613 1,141 562 658 1,219 481 571 1,052 503 604 1,107 -5.0 % tenant offices Head 1/1 100 % 15 4 19 15 7 22 15 4 19 15 7 22 -15.5 % office TOTAL 58/67 90 % 566 692 1,259 597 724 1,322 517 641 1,158 539 671 1,209 -4.3 % directly managed TOTAL 80/1,490 25 % 697 938 1,634 728 944 1,672 627 831 1,458 660 871 1,531 -4.8 % 1 Waste is collected at the Source: by type: general waste, paper, cardboard, plastic, cans, glass, etc. 2 The breakdown of waste by disposal route varies based on the type of waste. 3 The values shown represent the total quantities for the buildings, without distinction between the private and shared areas. 4 Cofinimmo has no control over the private quantities of waste of building tenants. It can only act on the quantities of waste of the directly managed buildings. 5 Waste classified as hazardous is processed directly by the tenants. The total quantity of hazardous waste in the records of the directly managed buildings accounts for 0.2% of the total weight. 6 Conversion factor depending on type: general waste 60 kg/m³, paper/cardboard 50 kg/m³, plastic/cans 30 kg/m³ and glass 320 kg/m³. 7 No information is available for indirectly managed healthcare real estate and distribution networks. Proportion of waste collected by disposal route: reuse, recycling, composting, incineration, landfilling, etc. The recycling and incineration of waste with energy recovery are the only disposal routes. The surface area used as the denominator corresponds to the above-ground surface area. Waste-Abs Waste-LfL Waste-Int Waste-Int ∆ Recycled Recycled 2019 2018 tonnes/m² tonnes/m² 2019 2018 2019 2018 REC INC Total REC INC Total PPP 17 % 20 % 17 % 20 % 0.50 2.38 2.88 0.55 2.15 2.70 6.5 % Single-tenant 39 % 42 % 44 % 43 % 0.81 1.24 2.04 1.28 1.76 3.04 -32.8 % offices TOTAL indirectly 35 % 37 % 37 % 38 % 0.76 1.42 2.18 1.10 1.86 2.96 -26.3 % managed MOB 24 % 25 % 24 % 25 % 1.38 4.47 5.85 1.40 4.14 5.54 5.6 % Multi-tenant 46 % 46 % 46 % 45 % 1.49 1.73 3.23 1.36 1.60 2.96 9.1 % offices Head office 79 % 69 % 79 % 69 % 3.85 1.03 4.88 3.98 1.79 5.77 -15.5 % TOTAL directly 45 % 45 % 45 % 45 % 1.51 1.85 3.36 1.39 1.68 3.07 9.5 % managed TOTAL 43 % 44 % 43 % 43 % 1.27 1.72 2.99 1.33 1.72 3.05 -1.8 % 80 COFINIMMO SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2019 TYPE AND NUMBER OF ASSETS WITH CERTIFICATIONS (KWH/M 2) Based on the GRI CRE8 disclosure Total number of buildings that have received a certification by type. The table shows the number of buildings that have received at least one PEB certificate. The energy performance level shown is the weighted average of the scores by segment. Number of Coverage Energy performance LfL energy performance buildings in m² 2019 2018 ∆ 2019 2018 ∆ Healthcare real 92/182 38 % 248 254 -2.4 % 265 258 2.8 % estate Distribution 299/1,206 16 % 310 305 1.7 % 297 298 -0.2 % networks PPP 3/7 3% 271 190 43.0 % 271 271 Single-tenant 10/28 48 % 264 255 3.6 % 242 228 6.4 % offices TOTAL indirectly 404/1,423 31 % 258 251 2.9 % 265 258 2.8 % managed MOB 15/15 100 % 294 203 45.0 % 185 181 2.1 % Multi-tenant 31/51 53 % 194 195 -0.7 % 193 206 -6.0 % offices Head office 1/1 100 % 238 238 238 238 TOTAL directly 47/67 59 % 213 196 8.6 % 193 204 -5.2 % managed TOTAL 451/1,490 37 % 244 234 4.4 % 242 241 0.7 % 1 PEB certification is regulated differently for each country and segment. 2 For some PEB certificates, the score is 0 kWh/m² due to a lack of information. These certificates are not included in the average. 3 The certificate for a less energy-intensive PPP building is missing for 2019, which explains the increase in the average performance in 2019. 4 Energy-intensive buildings of the MOB type, acquired in 2019, are the cause of the increase in average performance in 2019. These buildings are currently being renovated with the aim of improving their energy performance. Number of Coverage Energy performance LfL energy performance buildings in m² 2019 2018 ∆ 2019 2018 ∆ Healthcare real 11/72 4% 125 125 126 125 -0.2 % estate (BE) Healthcare real 36/48 79 % 393 390 -0.7 % 389 393 0.9 % estate (FR) Healthcare real 38/39 97 % 177 244 38.1 % 180 191 6.4 % estate + MOB (NL) Healthcare real 22/38 49 % 79 92 16.3 % 80 91 13.1 % estate (DE) TOTAL Healthcare 107/197 41 % 251 253 0.7 % 253 260 2.7 % real estate TOTAL Offices 42/80 52 % 210 216 2.8 % 212 208 -2.2 % 1. Energy-intensive buildings of the MOB type, acquired in 2019, are the cause of the increase in average performance in 2019. These buildings are currently being renovated with the aim of improving their energy performance. Key performance indicators for 2019 COFINIMMO SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2019 81 The table shows the number of buildings that have received at least one BREEAM and/or BREEAM In-Use certificate. Number of Coverage BREEAM BREEAM BREEAM BREEAM BREEAM buildings in m² In-Use In-Use Good Very Good Good Very Good Excellent PPP 1/7 20 % 20 % Single-tenant offices 1/28 5% 5% TOTAL indirectly 2/1,423 2.1 % 1.6 % 0.5 % managed Multi-tenant offices 9/51 17 % 8% 3% 6% Head office 1/1 100 % 100 % TOTAL directly 10/67 16 % 7% 1% 3% 5% managed TOTAL 12/1,490 5% 1.5 % 0.2 % 1.3 % 0.5 % 1.5 % 1 No certification is available for healthcare real estate and distribution networks. 2 All the certified buildings are located in Belgium. 82 COFINIMMO SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2019 SOCIAL PERFORMANCE INDICATORS GOVERNANCE BODIES AND EMPLOYEE GENDER DIVERSITY (IN %) Based on the GRI 405-1 disclosure Diversity-Emp 2019 2018 Women Men Women Men Board of Directors (including non-independent members) 42 % 58 % 45 % 55 % Executive Committee 40 % 60 % 40 % 60 % Managers 27 % 73 % 54 % 46 % Employees (including managers) 61 % 39 % 64 % 36 % 1 In 2018, 27% of women and 11% of men worked part-time. 2 In 2019, 32% of women and 8% of men worked part-time. GENDER SALARY AND REMUNERATION RATIO (% WOMEN/MEN) Based on the GRI 405-2 disclosure Diversity-Pay 2019 2018 Board of Directors 88 % 80 % Executive Committee 73 % 71 % Managers 90 % 89 % Employees 88 % 82 % 1 The chairman is male, which explains the difference at the Board level. Non-independent members are excluded from calculation, because they are included in the Executive Committee. 2 The CEO is male, which explains the difference at the Executive Committee level. 3 The difference at the manager level can be explained by the fact that there are more male operational managers. 4 At employee level, there is a small difference because many women have an administrative assistant function. EMPLOYEE TRAINING AND DEVELOPMENT (NUMBER OF HOURS) Based on the GRI 404-1 disclosure Emp-Training 2019 2018 Total Average Total Average Women 2,063 28 3,367 40 Men 2,481 52 2,009 43 Employees 4,544 37 5,376 41 1 The denominator for the average per employee is 123 people (= total number of employees). EMPLOYEE PERFORMANCE APPRAISALS (IN %) Based on the GRI 404-3 disclosure Emp-Dev 2019 2018 Employees 100 % 100 % 1. In order to align appraisals with the definition of the objectives of the company, 2019 has been a transition year. At the time this report was being written, the appraisals were still ongoing. RECRUITMENT OF NEW EMPLOYEES AND EMPLOYEE TURNOVER Based on the GRI 401-1 disclosure Emp-Turnover 2019 2018 Departures New hires Departures New hires Total % Total % Total % Total % Employees 23 18.7 % 18 14.6 % 17 13.0 % 12 9.2 % 1 The denominator is 123 people (= total number of employees). 2 As at 31.12.2019, four functions were still vacant. Key performance indicators for 2019 COFINIMMO SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2019 83 EMPLOYEE HEALTH AND SAFETY Based on the GRI 403-9 disclosure Absenteeism rate 2019 2018 Short term 1.5 % 1.5 % Long term 2.9 % 3.8 % Work-related accidents 0 1 Number of accidents/worked hours 0% 0.0004 % 1 The denominator is the total number of working days including leave days in accordance with Belgian legislation. 2 Short-term means absenteeism of 20 days or less while long-term means more than 20 days. ASSET HEALTH AND SAFETY ASSESSMENTS (% OF BUILDINGS IN M²) Based on the GRI 416-1 disclosure H&S-Asset 2019 2018 MOB 20 % 60 % Multi-tenant offices 99 % 92 % Head office 100 % 100 % TOTAL directly managed 91 % 91 % 1 Fire audit, asbestos monitoring. ASSET HEALTH AND SAFETY COMPLIANCE (NUMBER OF ACCIDENTS) Based on the GRI 416-2 disclosure H&S-Comp 2019 2018 MOB 0 0 Multi-tenant offices 0 0 Head office 0 0 TOTAL directly managed 0 0 1 In 2019, no infringements related to fire audits and asbestos monitoring with a financial or health impact on the occupant were detected. COMMUNITY ENGAGEMENT, IMPACT ASSESSMENTS AND DEVELOPMENT PROGRAMMES (% OF BUILDINGS IN M²) Based on the GRI 413-1 disclosure Comty-Eng 2019 2018 MOB Multi-tenant offices 100% 100 % Head office 100% 100 % TOTAL directly managed 89% 95 % 1 The accessibility of office buildings has been assessed in the chapter ‘Mobility’ (see page 60). The strategy also includes individual actions for each building, such as the opening of a garden to the public (see the chapter ‘Aesthetics, respect for public spaces and diversity of districts’ on pages 48-51). 2 The commitment relating to the head office is described in the GRI content index (see page 92). 84 COFINIMMO SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2019 GOVERNANCE PERFORMANCE INDICATORS COMPOSITION OF THE HIGHEST GOVERNANCE BODY Based on the GRI 102-22 disclosure NOMINATING AND SELECTING THE HIGHEST GOVERNANCE BODY Based on the GRI 102-24 disclosure CONFLICTS OF INTEREST Based on the GRI 102-25 disclosure The Gov-Board, Gov-Selec and Gov-Col measures are described in the chapter ‘Corporate governance statement’ (see pages 118-144 of the 2019 Universal Registration Document). Key performance indicators for 2019 COFINIMMO SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2019 85 Dashboard ID Commitments Scope Actions taken in 2019 Business ethics 1 Maximise the transparency of Cofinimmo Group • Received an EPRA Sustainability sBPR Gold Award for the sixth year in a row. the company’s non-financial • Received third-party assurance for the key performance indicators recommended information. by EPRA and published on the Cofinimmo website. • Produced a sustainability report in line with GRI standards: Core option and received third-party assurance for it. • Participated in the GRESB survey and improved score from 57% to 70% in five years. • ‘Second Party Opinion’ of the Green & Social Bonds reviewed by Vigeo Eiris. 2 ISO 14001 certification for the Offices • Extended the ISO 14001:2015 certification. The certification includes all the propEnvironmental Management erty management, project management and development activities. System for the management of the global office portfolio, project management and development. 3 Annually review the materiality Cofinimmo Group • Continued the dialogue with external stakeholders through a customer satisfacmatrix for the company’s sustion survey. In total, 432 customers received the survey and the response rate tainability topics. was 37.5%. 4 Promote the Green Charter, Offices • Promoted the Green Charter to new tenants at the time of lease signature. a collaboration agreement • 21% of office spaces covered by a Green Charter. signed by Cofinimmo, Cofinimmo Services and the • Implemented a Green Lease with environmental clauses. tenant in order to actively promote sustainability and encourage all parties to reduce the environmental impact of leased properties: sharing of consumption data, initiatives to reduce consumption, better waste sorting, etc. 5 Include a separate clause in Global portfolio • The environmental policy is attached to all general contracting agreements. contracts and calls for tenders Cofinimmo encourages its suppliers to adopt environmental-friendly behaviours. regarding the adoption of • Reiteration of Cofinimmo's commitment as a signatory of the UN Global Compact sustainability practices by charter containing ten principles with regard to fundamental responsibilities subcontractors as a selection in the areas of human rights, labour, the environment and the fight against criterion. corruption. • Publication of the 2018 Sustainability Report as a 'Communication on Progress' on the United Nations Global Compact website. Profitability for investors and access to capital 6 Mobilise employees. Cofinimmo Group • Stronger integration of sustainability criteria during due diligence by the acquisition teams and in the communication of these acquisitions. Innovation 7 Develop a culture of innovation Cofinimmo Group • Cofinimmo became member of the Prop Tech Lab in 2019. within the company. Aesthetics, respect for public spaces and diversity of districts 8 Improve the aesthetics and Global portfolio • Redevelopment works on the Quartz building (formerly Arts/Kunst 19H). public space when redeveloping existing buildings. 9 Obtain BREEAM and BREEAM Offices • Received the BREEAM In-Use certificate for Woluwe 58, Cofinimmo’s head office. In-Use certificates. • Extended the BREEAM In-Use certificate for seven multi-tenants office buildings. 10 Improve the collection of water Global portfolio • 83% of collected data relating to water consumption in the directly managed consumption data. portfolio, 39% in healthcare real estate, 20% for PPP and 90% for single-tenant office buildings. Safety and well-being 11 Gradually decontaminate Global portfolio • Updated the inventory of buildings with remaining traces of asbestos. buildings still containing traces of asbestos. 86 COFINIMMO SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2019 Measurement Progress Future actions Deadline of objective in 2019 Scores obtained 100 % • Continued participation of Cofinimmo in the GRESB survey. 2020 for the different • Renew participation in the Carbon Disclosure Project. surveys • Publish EPRA performance indicators. • Active participation in the MSCI and Sustainalytics ratings. • Produce the annual report for the Green & Social Bonds issued in December 2016, included in the 2020 Sustainability Report. Certification 100 % • Three-yearly renewal of the ISO 14001 certification. 2020 renewal/ extension Completion of the 100 % • New customer satisfaction survey for healthcare and office real estate segments. 2020 planned actions • Survey sent to investors in order to understand their needs in terms of ESG. % surface area 21 % • Coverage of 30% of office spaces by a Green Charter. 2020 • Extension of the 'Green Charter' to 50% of the healthcare real estate surface areas. % agreements 100 % • Publication of the 2019 Sustainability Report as 'Communication on Progress' on the 2020 United Nations Global Compact website. Completion of the 100 % • Set an objective relating to the company’s sustainability strategy in the individual 2020 planned actions annual objectives of each employee for 2020. • Review the framework of green and social financing to guarantee eligible assets. Completion of the 100 % • Define and launch a governance practice for efficient and sustainable data. 2020 planned actions • Consider electronic signature of leases and digital inventory records. • Explore the use of innovative construction materials. Number of projects 100 % • Delivery of construction, renovation and extension works for 10% of the portfolio. 2024 Number of buildings 100 % • Confirm the BREEAM certificate for the large-scale renovation projects once 2020 completed: Quartz (formerly Arts/Kunst 19H) BREEAM Excellent certificate expected in 2020. % of data coverage 44 % • Increase coverage to 75% of building surfaces. 2020 Coverage in m² of 57 % • Improve the quality of data collected for the various segments. 2020 buildings without traces of asbestos Dashboard COFINIMMO SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2019 87 ID Commitments Scope Actions taken in 2019 Employee training 12 Implement the framework necCofinimmo Group • 4,544 hours of training were followed by 54% of employees, representing an essary for the development of average of 4.6 days of training per employee. employees. Respect for differences and cultural diversity 13 Ensure sufficient diversity at all Cofinimmo Group • Parity between men and women at Board of Directors level: 50% women and levels of the company. 50% men. 14 Audit and research potential Offices • 30% of multi-tenant buildings have been audited since 2013. improvements related to the accessibility of buildings to people with reduced mobility (PRM) Mobility 15 Inform clients about the Offices • Progressive set-up of multi-modal sheets for office buildings. accessibility of buildings using alternative transport modes to the car. 16 Promote the use of alternative Offices • 1% of parking spaces are equipped with charging stations in the office segment. transport modes to the car by • 13% of bicycle parking spaces are available in the office segment. improving facilities. 17 Increase the rate of use of Offices • Assessed the implementation of public parking spaces in the context of the parking spaces by sharing renewal of the environmental permit for three buildings. them or through a conversion • 3% of the parking spaces available in the office portfolio are converted into into car parks for semi-public or shared and public parking spaces. public use. 18 Implement a mobility plan. Cofinimmo Group • Raising awareness among staff members benefiting from a company car as to alternative transport modes. Energy intensity and GHG emissions 19 Increase renewable energy Global portfolio • Renewal of the green electricity supply contract for the supply points directly production. managed by Cofinimmo Services, Cofinimmo and Superstone. 20 Improve the portfolio’s energy Global portfolio • 1.2% of the real estate portfolio underwent redevelopment or large-scale renovaperformance with a building tion, which improved the energy performance (excluding new constructions and renovation programme. acquisitions). 21 Better monitoring of the enerGlobal portfolio • Consumption data has been collected for 62% of the healthcare real estate gy intensity of buildings. segment and 95% of the office segment. 22 Reduce the energy intensity of Global portfolio • Decrease the energy intensity by 0.6% compared to 2018 by reaching buildings by 30% to reach the 178 kWh/m2. level of 130 kWh/m² by 2030. • Identify one goal per asset in line with PLAGE and on a more global scale following the science-based targets methodology. • Assign a PLAGE coordinator. 23 Partially recycle materials durOffices • In 2019, the opportunity to recuperate materials prior to demolition did not occur ing renovation projects. in any of the redevelopment projects. 24 Receive electronic invoices Cofinimmo Group • In 2019, 28,734 invoices were received. In total, 67% of all invoices received from suppliers and send in digital format were inserted directly by e-mail. The balance of the invoices, invoices to clients in digital received on paper, were scanned. format. • Likewise, for 73% of tenants, all documents (rent bills, rental-related expenses breakdowns, etc.) were sent in digital format. 25 Improve waste sorting in Offices • 43% of the collected waste is recycled. multi-tenant office buildings • Waste reduction from 3.05 tonnes/m2 to 2.99 tonnes/m2. by raising awareness among occupants. 26 Head office’s carbon footprint. Cofinimmo Group • Identify one goal following the science-based targets methodology. • Assess the impact of the application of the mobility policy implemented in 2017, which offers solutions in terms of mobility and allows to combine company car with soft mobility. 88 COFINIMMO SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2019 Measurement Progress Future actions Deadline of objective in 2019 Average number of 92 % • Continued training for employees and managers. 2020 days per employee % of women/% of 100 % • Continued vigilance on a parity men/women on the Board of Directors and the 2021 men on the Board Executive Committee. of Directors • Continued vigilance on accessibility within the framework of the construction sites. 2020 Number of 100 % • Analyse the parking spaces management tools. 2020 buildings % bicycle parking 13 % • Gradually improve infrastructure for cyclists by: 2020 spaces increasing bicycle parkings; improving the type of bicycle parking; increasing the number of showers. Number of shared 3% • Study conducted for the gradual conversion of 1,500 parking spaces into public park2030 or public parking ing as permits are renewed. spaces Number of actions 100 % • Revision of the three-year mobility plan including the set-up of new objectives. 2020 Number of buildings 100 % • Raise tenant awareness about investing in renewable energy sources during con2020 struction/ renovation/extension projects. % surface area 100 % • Cofinimmo is planning to refurbish 8.5% of its portfolio between 2020 and 2024 (ex2024 cluding new constructions and acquisitions). % surface area 62 % • Increase the consumption data for the healthcare real estate segment to 75%. 2020 % surface area 76 % • Programming of the actions identified in the energy cadastre. 2020 • Official validation by science-based targets of the global objective. • Material recovery considered for new renovation projects 2020 Number of invoices 67 % • 75% of invoices will be received in digital format. 2020 sent/received in • 80% of tenants will receive their rent bills and rental-related expenses breakdowns in digital format digital format. % recycled waste 61 % • Improved waste sorting. 2020 compared to 70% objective • New assessment of Cofinimmo’s carbon footprint. 2020 Dashboard COFINIMMO SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2019 89 Link between topics of Cofinimmo and SDGs Ligne 13 office building – Brussels CBD (BE) SDG Topics SR pages 3 Good health •G  radually decontaminate buildings still containing traces of 52-53 and well-being asbestos. 4 Quality education • Implement the framework necessary for the development of 54-56 employees. 6 Clean water • Improve collection of water consumption data. 78-79 and sanitation 7 Affordable and clean • Improve the portfolio’s energy performance with a building 62-65 energy renovation programme. • Extend energy accounting to the healthcare real estate segment. •B  etter measurement and management of the energy intensity of multi-tenant office buildings based on one target per building. 8 Decent work • Mobilise employees. 26 and economic growth 9 Industry, innovation • Develop a culture of innovation within the company. 44-47 and infrastructure 10 Reduced inequalities • Ensure sufficient diversity at all levels of the company. 56-59 •A  udit and search for potential improvements in building accessibility for persons with reduced mobility (PRM). 90 COFINIMMO SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2019 SDG Topics SR pages 11 Sustainable cities and • Improve the aesthetics and public space when redeveloping existing 48-51 communities buildings. 60-61 • Obtain BREEAM and BREEAM In-Use certificates. • Inform clients about the accessibility of buildings using alternative transport modes to the car. •P  romote the use of alternative transport modes to the car by improving facilities. • Increase the rate of use of parking spaces by sharing them or through a conversion into parking spaces for semi-public or public use. • Implement a mobility plan. 12 Responsible consumption • Partially recycle materials during renovation projects. 88-89 and production •R  eceive electronic invoices from suppliers and send invoices to clients in digital format. • Improve waste sorting in multi-tenant office buildings by raising awareness among occupants. 13 Measures related to the • Update the head office’s carbon footprint. 88-89 fight against climate changes • Decrease the CO2 emissions of leased cars. 16 Peace, justice and strong •M  aximise the transparency of the company’s non-financial 86-87 institutions information. •M  aintain the Environmental Management System’s ISO 14001 certification for the management of the global office portfolio, project management and development. 17 Partnerships for the •A  nnually review the materiality matrix for the company’s 14-17 implementation of goals sustainability topics. •P  romote the Green Charter, a collaboration agreement signed by Cofinimmo, Cofinimmo Services and the tenant in order to actively promote sustainability and encourage all parties to reduce the environmental impact of leased properties: sharing of consumption data, initiatives to reduce consumption, better waste sorting, etc. • Include a separate clause in contracts and calls for tenders regarding the adoption of sustainability practices by subcontractors as a selection criterion. Belliard 40 office building – Brussels CBD (BE) Link between topics of Cofinimmo and SDGs COFINIMMO SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2019 91 GRI content index All the GRI Standards (see pages 92-95) have been reviewed by the Auditor, Deloitte Réviseurs d'Entreprises/Bedrijfsrevisoren (see the Statutory Auditor's report). Cofinimmo is not subject to the European legislation on non-financial reporting (EU Directive 2014/95). The Sustainability Report is therefore a voluntary initiative which complies with the legal requirements of the transposition of this directive into Belgian law and follows the Euronext guidance on ESG reporting issued in January 2020 UNIVERSAL STANDARDS SR : See pages of the 2019 Sustainability Report. URD : See pages of the 2019 Universal Registration Document. GRI 102 : GENERAL DISCLOSURES 2016 1. ORGANISATIONAL PROFILE 102-1 Name of the organisation Cofinimmo SA/NV 102-2 Activities, brands, products and SR 4-11, 19, 23 services URD 24-57 102-3 Location of headquarters Boulevard de la Woluwe/Woluwedal 58, 1200 Brussels, Belgium 102-4 Location of operations SR 13 102-5 Ownership and legal form SR 12 URD 242-253 102-6 Markets served SR 13 URD 24-57 102-7 Scale of the organisation SR 12-13 102-8 Information on employees and other SR 56-59, 83-84 In 2019, Cofinimmo had assigned three external workers contractors and three interim workers. All employees are recruited for an indefinite term. Social data are consolidated by the social secretariat Securex for Belgium and by the human resources department for France, the Netherlands and Germany with the support of an external advisor. 102-9 Supply chain SR 18-19 102-10 Significant changes to the URD 22-23 organisation and its supply chain 102-11 Precautionary principle or approach SR 27-30 URD 2-5 102-12 External initiatives SR 12, 86 Participation in GRESB and Vigeo Eiris surveys. 102-13 Membership of associations The Shift, Women on Board, UPSI, EPRA, GRESB, RICS. 2. STRATEGY 102-14 Statement from senior decision-maker SR 2-3 102-15 Key impacts, risks and opportunities URD 2-5 3. ETHICS AND INTEGRITY 102-16 Values, principles, standards and SR 26-30 https://www.cofinimmo.com/about-us/governance/ norms of behaviour 92 COFINIMMO SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2019 4. GOVERNANCE 102-18 Governance structure SR 31 URD 123-144 102-21 Consulting stakeholders on economic, SR 20-25 environmental and social topics 102-22 Composition of the highest SR 31, 58 governance body and its committees URD 123-144 102-24 Nominating and selecting the URD 124-144 members of the highest governance body 102-25 Conflicts of interest URD 132 5. STAKEHOLDER ENGAGEMENT 102-40 List of stakeholder groups SR 24-25 102-41 Collective bargaining agreements There is no trade union representation within Cofinimmo due to a lack of candidates in the compulsory employee elections held every four years. Cofinimmo is part of Joint Committee 200 which governs the status of employees. 102-42 Identifying and selecting stakeholders SR 20-25 102-43 Approach to stakeholder engagement SR 20-22 102-44 Key topics and concerns raised SR 26-65 6. REPORTING PRACTICE 102-45 Entities included in the consolidated URD 208-209 financial statements 102-46 Defining report content and topic SR 14-17 boundaries 102-47 List of material topics SR 15 102-48 Restatements of information No significant restatement of information compared to information communicated in the 2018 Sustainability Report. 102-49 Changes in reporting No substantial changes in the content and boundaries of topics compared to information communicated in the 2018 Sustainability Report. 102-50 Reporting period Social and financial year from 01.01.2019 to 31.12.2019. 102-51 Date of most recent report The most recent sustainability report covers the sustainability strategy for 2018. 102-52 Reporting cycle Annual 102-53 Contact point for questions regarding Hanna De Groote, Head of Corporate Social the report Responsibility. 102-54 Claims of reporting in accordance with This report has been prepared in accordance with the the GRI Standards GRI Standards: Core option. 102-55 GRI content index SR 92-95 102-56 External assurance SR 96-98 Deloitte Réviseurs d'Entreprises/Bedrijfsrevisoren SC s.f.d. SCRL performed a limited assurance audit on the performance indicators, the compliance of the 2019 Sustainability Report with the GRI Standards Core option, as well as the Green & Social Bonds portfolio. GRI 103 : MANAGEMENT APPROACH 2016 103-1 Explanation of the material topic and SR 26-65 its boundary 103-2 The management approach and its SR 26-65 components 103-3 Evaluation of the management SR 26-65 approach GRI content index COFINIMMO SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2019 93 TOPIC-SPECIFIC STANDARDS GRI 200: ECONOMIC STANDARDS Net result from core activities per URD 21 share Net Asset Value (NAV) (in fair value) URD 21 per share Dividend URD 78 Average cost of debt URD 21 GRI 201: ECONOMIC PERFORMANCE 2016 201-1 Direct economic value generated and SR 32 distributed GRI 205: ANTI-CORRUPTION 2016 205-3 Confirmed incidents of corruption and SR 26 actions taken GRI 300: ENVIRONMENTAL STANDARDS CRE1 Building energy intensity SR 70 CRE2 Building water intensity SR 79 CRE3 GHG emissions intensity SR 76 CRE8 Total number of assets being granted SR 81-82 https://www.cofinimmo.com/sustainability/ performance-data/ a certification per type and per level GRI 301: MATERIALS 2016 Reason for omission: Given the number of renovation and/or redevelopment projects each year, the publication of these disclosures is not material compared to the impact of Cofinimmo’s other activities. However, the group remains vigilant as to whether actions are required for recycled materials in its construction sites. GRI 302: ENERGY 2016 302-1 Energy intensity within the organSR 71-73 isation 302-2 Energy intensity outside of the SR 71-73 organisation 302-3 Energy intensity SR 70 302-4 Reduction of energy intensity SR 63 GRI 303: WATER AND EFFLUENTS 2018 303-5 Water consumption SR 78 GRI 304: BIODIVERSITY 2016 Reason for omission: The activities of Cofinimmo do no impact protected areas and do not impact empty lots in urban areas. Biodiversity disclosures are therefore not material for these activities. However, Cofinimmo remains vigilant as to whether actions are required. GRI 305: EMISSIONS 2016 305-1 Direct (Scope 1) GHG emissions SR 74 305-2 Indirect (Scope 2) GHG emissions SR 74 305-3 Other indirect (Scope 3) GHG SR 74 emissions 305-4 GHG emissions intensity SR 76 305-5 Reduction of GHG emissions SR 62 GRI 306: EFFLUENTS AND WASTE 2016 306-2 Waste by type and disposal method SR 80 94 COFINIMMO SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2019 GRI 400: SOCIAL STANDARDS Operations with a significant real or SR 44-51, 60-61 potential negative impact on local communities Deployment of the company’s •T  he IT devices replaced in 2019 at Cofinimmo’s were strategy relating to active citizenship recycled by Out of Use. This company gives work to 13 social institutions dealing with dismantling activities. Through recycling, old devices are turned into raw materials. The value of these raw materials corresponds to 25 trees and the corresponding m2 of land that was donated to the ‘Forêt pour tous 2019’ (2019 Forest for all) campaign from Natuurpunt. By doing so, Cofinimmo takes part in the circular economy and prevents additional raw materials to be extracted. • Philanthropic initiative at year-end. In 2019, Cofinimmo has spent almost all of its budget for donations to a single philanthropic action. It has provided financial support to ‘On souffle dans ton dos’. This non-profit organisation aims to set up specific aids to support children with disabilities (developmental delay, autism spectrum disorders, intellectual disability, motor disorders, genetic disorders, learning disabilities, etc.) in various areas of their daily life, starting with school... INCLUSION is a key word in this association. GRI 401: EMPLOYMENT 2016 401-1 New employee hires and employee SR 59, 83 turnover GRI 402: LABOUR/MANAGEMENT RELATIONS 2016 402-1 Minimum notice periods regarding The minimum notice period for operational changes is six operational changes weeks. GRI 403: OCCUPATIONAL HEALTH AND SAFETY 2018 403-9 Work-related injuries SR 84 GRI 404: TRAINING AND EDUCATION 2016 404-1 Average hours of training per year per SR 55 employee 404-3 Percentage of employees receiving SR 83 regular performance and career development reviews GRI 405: DIVERSITY AND EQUAL OPPORTUNITY 2016 405-1 Diversity of governance bodies and SR 58 employees 405-2 Ratio of basic salary and remuneration SR 83 of women to men GRI 406: NON-DISCRIMINATION 2016 406-1 Incidents of discrimination and No incidents of discrimination were reported in 2019. corrective actions taken GRI 407: FREEDOM OF ASSOCIATION AND COLLECTIVE BARGAINING 2016 407-1 Operations and suppliers in which the In 2019, no operations or suppliers in which the right to right to freedom of association and freedom of association and collective bargaining may have collective bargaining may be at risk been at risk were claimed. Respect for human rights is a red line in the collaboration with the partners. In addition, exposure is low given Cofinimmo’s geography and business. GRI 413: LOCAL COMMUNITIES 2016 413-1 Operations with local community SR 84 engagement, impact assessments and development programs GRI 415: PUBLIC POLICY 2016 415-1 Political contributions No financial or in kind political contributions were made in 2019. GRI 416: CUSTOMER HEALTH AND SAFETY 2016 416-1 Assessment of the health and safety SR 52-53 impacts of product and service categories 416-2 Incidents of non-compliance SR 84 concerning the health and safety impacts of products and services GRI content index COFINIMMO SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2019 95 Statutory Auditor's report 96 COFINIMMO SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2019 Statutory Auditor's report COFINIMMO SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2019 97 98 COFINIMMO SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2019 COFINIMMO Boulevard de la Woluwe/Woluwedal, 58 B – 1200 Brussels Tel. +32 2 373 00 00 Fax +32 2 373 00 10 R.L.P. of Brussels VAT BE 0426 184 049 www.cofinimmo.com SEND US YOUR FEEDBACK info@cofinimmo.be REALISATION Thierry Crassaert External Communication & Investor Relations team ESG team DESIGN Chriscom.eu PICTURES Buildings : David Plas, Georges de Kinder, Yvan Glavie, Oilinwater Design Studio, Adriaan van Dam Fotografie, RAU Architecten Portraits : David Plas The mark of responsible forest management www.cofinimmo.com
