2020 COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS To our stakeholders: A REFLECTION OF OUR COMPANY MISSION Over the past year, we have committed to Our Responsible Sourcing Program is driven doing business the right way. We’ve by the belief that meaningful corporate invested heavily into this effort and are citizenship is essential to our long-term proud of the steps we’ve taken to establish business success and is essential to upholding our Responsible Sourcing Program. We our company mission, “to make organic and have increased transparency and natural food available to all.” Recognizing that there are differences in laws, customs, and accountability throughout our global supply economic conditions that impact business chains. And we have sent the message to all practices around the world, we believe that NSI stakeholders that Corporate shared values must serve as the foundation for Responsibility is not negotiable. This relationships between NSI and its suppliers. journey is both a process and an outcome, and we commit to continue working The Responsible Sourcing Principles (outlined towards maintaining your trust. on page 2) communicate our values and expectations and emphasize the importance of Sincerely, responsible workplace policies and practices Vincent Grignon that comply, at a minimum, with basic human Co-Founder and Chief Executive Officer rights, applicable environmental laws, local January 17, 2020 labor laws and regulations. These principles reflect the values we follow in our company, and we encourage our suppliers to engage in and adopt these values to further global progress to meet the 2030 Agenda for VALUES AND COMMITMENTS AT NATURAL Sustainable Development. SOURCING INTERNATIONAL (NSI) At NSI, we are continuing to develop and LAW AND CODE COMPLIANCE implement innovative solutions throughout our business to deliver long-term value in financial, NSI expects suppliers to comply, at minimum, environmental, social and ethical standards. with all applicable human rights, labor, We have an active commitment to The employment, immigration, health and safety, Principles of the UN Global Compact to trade, environmental, and anti-corruption laws address critical issues in and regulations of the country of production the supply chain regarding and origin. The requirements of our newly human rights, labor, developed Supplier Code of Conduct and environment & corruption principles set forth here apply throughout the and share those with our entire supply chain, including sub-suppliers, suppliers with the sub-contractors and farms. expectation that our suppliers will meet NSI routinely uses independent third-parties to them. We have established a commitment to assess compliance with our Supplier Code of making these principles part of our strategy, Conduct, which details the expectations of our culture and the day-to-day operations of our Responsible Sourcing Program. If a supplier company. Our aim is to engage in fails to uphold any aspect of our Code of collaborative relationships with our suppliers to Conduct, the supplier is expected to commit to advance these principles which contribute to a collaborative action plan and continuous the UN Sustainable Development Goals. improvement. NATURAL SOURCING INTERNATIONAL 2020 COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS RESPONSIBLE SOURCING PRINCIPLES should not exceed 12 hours, totaling 60 hours in any single week. At least one day’s rest in These principles outline the expectations of any seven-day period, or when allowed by law, two days rest in a fourteen-day period shall be the NSI Supplier Code of Conduct and provided. apply throughout the entire supply chain. No discrimination is practiced: Workplace, recruitment and employment practices shall be Employment is freely chosen: There shall be free from discrimination based on race, no use of forced, bonded, involuntary or illegal religion, belief, gender, ethnic background, prison labor. Employees should not be forced disability, medical status, political affiliation, to surrender identification or travel documents. union membership, national origin, sexual orientation or marital status. Freedom of association and the right to collectively bargain are upheld: Employees Regular employment is practiced: must be free to join or organize a workers’ Recruitment and employment practices shall association or to engage in collective be in full compliance with the law. Only bargaining, and no disciplinary action is to be workers with a legal right to work shall be taken if employees engage in such activities. employed and copies of hiring and termination records shall be maintained. Working conditions are safe and hygienic: Suppliers should provide a safe and healthy No harsh or inhuman treatment is allowed: workplace in full compliance with applicable Verbal, sexual, physical, or psychological laws and regulations on health & safety. harassment is not permitted. The respect and Proactive measures to prevent accidents and dignity of employees must be ensured. injuries shall be in place. Also, where housing facilities are provided for employees, respect Environmental stewardship is promoted: of applicable legal requirements for Business practices should embrace dormitories must be followed. environmental sustainability and efforts should be put in place to reduce environmental Child labor is not used: Suppliers must impact. Efficient use of natural resources and adhere to the minimum age provisions of local safe handling of hazardous materials and waste or national laws. Minimum working age of 15, shall be practiced. Land rights of communities, or 14 for developing countries (not included in including indigenous peoples, shall be article 2.4 of ILO Convention 138), must be met protected. even when national law states younger age. Documentation confirming date of birth of Business is conducted ethically: Business workers must be provided. practices shall adhere to laws related to bribery, corruption, and any fraudulent Living wages are paid: Wages and benefits business practices. must be at least equivalent to or higher than the minimum wage established by national law Continuous improvement is managed: or industry benchmark standards, whichever is Effective management systems should be in higher. Overtime must be compensated. place to control and monitor compliance of Deductions from wage as a disciplinary action these principles with the goal of ongoing shall be prohibited. and sustainable business practices. Working hours are not exhaustive: Working hours should not exceed 48 hours a week and overtime hours (on a voluntary basis) NATURAL SOURCING INTERNATIONAL RESPONSIBLE 2020 COMMUNICATION SOURCING 2020ONPROGRESS PROGRESS UPDATE PROGRESS We began our Responsible Sourcing journey in Q1 of 2019 and launched our program throughout our product supply chains in Q2. We are incredibly proud of the progress we’ve made in such a short time and look forward to making even greater strides in the future. 40 17 18 Products Audits Countries A total of 40 active items in our NSI has played an active role Suppliers undergo Responsible Product Portfolio that meet in establishing 17 social Sourcing protocol in the product compliance (items listed below) audits with our suppliers. development phase. • Organic Black Chia Seeds (Log 5) • Organic Fair Trade Cacao • Organic Dried Deglet Noor • Collagen Peptides Powder (Single Origin Peru) Pitted Dates • Organic MCT Powder • Organic Cacao Powder (Single • Red Dragon Fruit Chips • Organic Turmeric Powder Origin Peru) • White Dragon Fruit Chips • Organic Moringa Powder • Organic Cacao Nibs • Organic Watermelon Months • Cauliflower Baking Mix • Organic Fair Trade Cacao Nibs • Organic Original Coconut Chips • Monk Fruit Sweetener (Single Origin Peru) • Organic Chocolate Coconut • Organic Virgin Coconut Oil • Organic Cacao Butter Wafers Chips • Organic Refined Coconut Oil • Organic Coconut Cream (30%) • Organic Mango Chips • Organic MCT Oil (98%) – 16 fl oz • Organic Coconut Milk (17%) • Organic Banana Chips • Organic MCT Oil (98%) – 32 fl oz • Organic Light coconut Milk (10%) • Organic Dried Shiitake • Organic C8 MCT Oil • Coconut Milk Mushroom Caps • Organic Coconut Amino • Organic Dried Mangos • Beet Chips Seasoning – 8.5 oz • Organic Dried Jujubes • Organic Beet Chips • Organic Coconut Amino • Organic Dried Pitted Jujubes • Organic Sea Salt Beet Chips Seasoning 16.9 oz • Organic Dried Goji Berries • Dark Chocolate Covered Goji Berries NATURAL SOURCING INTERNATIONAL
