2018 2019 CALIK DENIM SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2018 2019 CALIK DENIM SUSTAINABILITY REPORT CONTENTS 6 About the Report 38 PASSION FOR STAKEHOLDERS AND INDUSTRY 7 About Calik Denim 8 CEO Letter 41 Sustainability Transformation Leadership 10 Highlights of the Report 45 Local Development 46 Talent Management Performance Development Healthy and Safe Work Environment 12 A NEW JOURNEY TO SUSTAINABILITY 14 Calik Denim Sustainability Strategy: Passion for Denim Passion for Life 16 2025 Targets 50 PASSION FOR PLANET 18 Sustainability Management 19 Material Issues 52 Climate Change and Energy 20 Dialogue with Stakeholders 53 Water Stewardship 21 Transformation Lab 54 Chemicals Management Thought Leadership 55 Waste Management Lab Cycle Transformation Leadership & Learning 23 Corporate Governance Risk and Opportunities 56 APPENDIX 25 Ethical Business 56 Corporate Memberships 57 Performance Indicators Environmental Performance Indicators 26 PASSION FOR INNOVATIVE PRODUCTS Social Performance Indicators 64 GRI Index 28 R&D and Innovation 69 UNGC References 33 Product Quality and Safety 34 Sustainable Raw Material Procurement 36 Customer Experience A BOUT T HE REPORT GRI 102 46 GRI 102 45 ABOUT THE REPORT ABOUT CALIK DENIM With this Sustainability Report, stakeholders are given Calik Denim, one of the leading premium denim As a reliable solution partner that creates value for an overview of the activities that have been carried manufacturers in the world, is included among the top its customers, the company provides services to top out by Calik Denim as part of its sustainability strategy 200 exporters in Turkey. The story of Calik Denim, which global apparel companies such as H&M, Zara, Topshop, Passion for Denim Passion for Life. holds a special place in the history of the Group as the River Island, Diesel, Armani, GAP and Tommy with an first industrial investment of Calik Holding, started in innovation-driven approach and unique collections. This report has been prepared in accordance with Malatya in 1987. Products are exported to more than 40 countries the GRI Standards: Core option. The report describes including USA, UK, Netherlands, France, Scandinavia, the company’s performance between 1 January Established with an investment of $111 million USD the Far East, Portugal, Italy, Tunisia, Morocco and Spain. 2018 and 31 December 2019 from an economic, and initially operating as a yarn and weaving factory, social, environmental and governance perspective. denim production capability was later added to Calik The company’s contributions to 2025 Targets and Denim’s portfolio in 1996. The company commissioned Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs) are also the ring spinning facility in 1997, and its product variety addressed in the report. was increased by transforming the factory into an integrated facility in 2003. The R&D center was opened For any questions, opinions and suggestions related by the company in 2011 to invest in innovative products to this report and Calik Denim’s sustainability efforts, and create value-added, sustainable products, and MISSION please feel free to contact us via the following e-mail approximately 2% of its annual revenue is allocated for address: sustainability@calikdenim.com. R&D and investments in innovation. Today, the company Providing added value to denim maintains its operations with approximately 2,400 industry, environment and people to make a positive impact for a better life, employees and boasts a yearly production capacity of for a sustainable world. 55 million meters, utilizing a production facility with an indoor area of 407,000 m2. As a result of its ongoing efforts in the fields of R&D and innovation, Calik Denim has received a variety of VISION international certificates such as Global Organic Textile Standard (GOTS), Organic Content Standard (OCS), Becoming a leading denim brand that Oeko-Tex, RCS, Nordic Swan, Eco Label, EU Ecolabel passionately creates and Global Recycle Standard (GRS). In addition, since change for a better life; 2016, the company has also been included in the by leading innovation, Turquality Support Program, the only program by which making positive impact companies that have competitive advantages and for stakeholders and branding potential are supported by the government. sustaining the environment. 6 PASSI ON FOR D EN I M , PAS S IO N FO R LIFE 2018 2019 CALIK DENIM SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2018 2019 CALIK DENIM SUSTAINABILITY REPORT PA S S I O N FO R D E N I M , PA S S I O N FO R LI FE 7 A BOUT T HE REPORT CEO LETTER as Passion for Denim Passion for Life focusing on the purpose of making a positive impact for a better Today, many actors collaborate to mitigate the effects of global climate change on the agriculture and food life. We have designed smart targets, one of the key sector in the world. As Calik Holding, we have joined steps in implementing our sustainability strategy in the United Nations Global Compact (UNGC) this year in harmony with Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs) line with our focus on multi-stakeholder collaborations which are the fundamentals for forming a sustainable in addition to the strategy works. We maintain many business model. We share our progress related to the collaborations and projects so as to improve business targets we set in 2019 based on 2016 on a regular basis processes, to make more efficient production and via our Sustainability Report. 2025 Targets focus on contribute to the academy. We are collaborating Dear Stakeholders, Environmental Sustainability, Sustainable Raw Material with different organizations, including especially Procurement, Innovation and Thought Leadership, universities both in Turkey and abroad, in R&D area. Global issues such as climate crisis, increasing pressure Internal and External Stakeholder Rights. We believe We have allocated approximately 2% of our revenue on natural resources and changing consumer habits that contributing to SDGs and being a part of the big to R&D. The sustainable and innovative technologies bring forward the need for a global transformation picture is the direction that all companies must turn that we develop decrease the consumption of water, focused on sustainability. We witnessed the effects towards. chemicals and energy in the production processes of the climate crisis on every area of our lives in while producing positive effects on the other elements the last year. Extreme flood and fail disasters in our of the value chain. Thanks to Denethic concept, one country, wildfires in the Amazon rainforest and high As a denim of the new leading technologies of the sector, we temperatures and drought in Europe can be enlisted eliminate the need for washing jeans after sewing by among them. As per agricultural activities, climate company taking its providing fabrics with a washed look for our customers. change continues interrupting the current agricultural On the other hand, we are focusing on efficiency activities by manifesting itself through extreme weather place among 200 and renewable energy and energy management conditions such as heavy rains. According to the for the purposes of combating with climate change researches, in the event that the global warming is companies with and improving our performance in water, chemical the highest export above 1,5°C than the preindustrial level, we will face and waste management through R&D practices. with increasing forest fires and floods, decreasing water Accordingly, we have allocated 4.1 million TRY to volume in Turkey, resources and consequently shrinkage of arable lands. environmental spending and investments. As a sector using agricultural raw materials, we should be a part of the solutions of these cultural issues. Currently, communities hold not only public institutions, we aim to continue As a denim company taking its place among 200 companies with the highest export volume in Turkey, but also profit-oriented companies more responsible for their operations and demand that they invest in a strengthening our we aim to continue strengthening our position in the global arena with our activities in the following period. sustainable future. Denim industry, undoubtedly, is in a transformation under the impact of these global trends. position in the We will focus our efforts on contributing to the solution of the social and environmental issues with a shared Fatih Doğan As Calik Denim, one of the leading premium denim global arena with value approach beyond creating economic value. By sharing 2019 Sustainability Report with you, I would like CEO manufacturers in the world, we are aware that the industry is facing global environmental and social our activities in the to thank all of our stakeholders, primarily our valuable colleagues, who contribute to our journey of Passion changes and the associated risks. Accordingly, we have redefined our approach to sustainability from following period. for Denim Passion for Life. a strategic point of view to adapt to such changing circumstances and pioneer sustainability within the Respectfully, industry. We aim to turn such risks into opportunities, manage the impact of denim on life, create positive Fatih Doğan value for and deliver benefits to our stakeholders. CEO Therefore, we have defined our sustainability strategy 8 PASSI ON FOR D EN I M , PAS S IO N FO R LIFE 2018 2019 CALIK DENIM SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2018 2019 CALIK DENIM SUSTAINABILITY REPORT PA S S I O N FO R D E N I M , PA S S I O N FO R LI FE 9 A BOUT T HE REPORT HIGHLIGHTS OF THE REPORT Approximately 2% of revenue is allocated THE AMOUNT to R&D. OF WATER USED PER PRODUCT was reduced by Calik Denim has become 11% over the a participant of THE last three years. UNITED NATIONS GLOBAL COMPACT (UNGC). HOURS OF TRAINING PER EMPLOYEE soared to 16 hours in 2019 with a 45% Hours of increase compared The amount of electricity occupational to 2017. produced from SOLAR health and safety training energy was increased to per employee 10 MWh in 2019. increased to The ratio of BETTER 12.3 hours in COTTON INITIATIVE 2019, double (BCI) certified products that of 2017. Products are assessed increased to 20.1%. for 100% product health and safety. 4.1 MILLION TRY was allocated to environmental spending and investments. 10 PASSI ON FOR D EN I M , PAS S IO N FO R LIFE 2018 2019 CALIK DENIM SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2018 2019 CALIK DENIM SUSTAINABILITY REPORT PA S S I O N FO R D E N I M , PA S S I O N FO R LI FE 11 A NEW JOURN EY TO S USTAINABILIT Y “Passion for Denim, Passion for Life” is our purpose to make a positive impact for a better life. This passion drives us to become a leading denim brand to deliver change in the industry. A NEW by JOURNEY TO STAKEH H ON T E EN SUSTAINABILITY N O VAT I V E PR VI IN O CT G A N O P NM E NT ERS ING OUR IM DI DU LD LEA RO CT S C R E AT I H /W IT UC NG D R A PO O F RE The denim industry is undergoing a transformation SIT T I V E I M PA C due to the effects of global trends such as climate change, evolving consumer behavior and limited natural resources. Calik Denim’s approach to LENGES Changing Consumer AL Behaviors sustainability has been redefined from a strategic focusing on H point of view to adapt to such changing GLOBA Technology and circumstances and pioneer sustainability within the Local Social Digitalization industry. A new sustainability strategy has been LC Climate developed by combining its sustainable and R&D and Economic Change and Climate Change innovative approach to production with its ability to Development Energy respond to changing global trends. The company has Resource Scarcity been actively working to develop and implement this strategy for the past two years. Occupational Demographic Change Product Health and Quality and Safety Water Safety Stewardship Human Rights CONTRIBUTION Sustainable Chemicals TO GLOBAL AGENDA Raw Material Management Procurement Thought Leadership with INNOVATION COLLABORATION TRANSPARENCY ECONOMIC BRAND PERFORMANCE MANAGEMENT 12 PASSI ON FOR D EN I M , PAS S IO N FO R LIFE 2018 2019 CALIK DENIM SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2018 2019 CALIK DENIM SUSTAINABILITY REPORT PA S S I O N FO R D E N I M , PA S S I O N FO R LI FE 13 A NEW JOURN EY TO S USTAINABILIT Y CALIK DENIM Under the set pillars, Calik Denim contributes to the following goals included among the United “Passion For Denim, SUSTAINABILITY Nations Sustainable Development Goals: Decent Passion For Life” Work and Economic Growth (8), Industry, Innovation is our purpose to STRATEGY and Infrastructure (9), Reduced Inequalities (10), Responsible Consumption and Production (12), Climate Action (13), Life Below Water (14), Life on Land (15) and make a positive impact for Partnerships for the Goals (17). a better life. Calik Denim, one of the leading premium denim thought leadership are focused on. Under the pillar As part of its commitments based on the principles manufacturers in the world, is aware that the industry of “Reducing its impact on the environment”, climate established in the UNGC, a platform which the is being faced with global environmental and social change and energy, water stewardship and chemicals company joined as a participant in 2019, Calik Denim is changes and the associated risks. The company aims to management is handled. continuing its efforts in the fields of human rights, turn such risks into opportunities, manage the impact labor standards, environmental protection and of denim on life, create positive value for and deliver In addition, the company is set to achieve its purpose anti-corruption. benefits to its stakeholders. “with” innovation, collaboration, transparency, economic performance and brand management, which PASSION FOR DENIM, PASSION FOR LIFE Therefore, its sustainability strategy has been defined have been positioned as enablers. as Passion for Denim Passion for Life, focusing on the “Passion for Denim, Passion for Life” is our purpose to make a positive impact for a better life. purpose of making a positive impact for a better life. • Calik Denim develops innovative products and This passion drives us to become a leading denim brand to deliver change in the industry. The company is encouraged by its passion for denim enhances the efficiency of the products and and passion for life to become the leading denim brand processes, while promoting sustainability by that triggers the sustainability-driven transformation in minimizing its impact on the environment. by the industry. Global Contribution to • Calik Denim copes with difficulties in the Challenges Leading Creating a Positive Reducing Global Agenda Its sustainability strategy encompasses the products, sustainability transformation with industrial stakeholders and environment. The company is set to cooperation. Innovative Impact for/with Our Impact on the Changing Consumer Products Stakeholders Environment achieve its purpose of making a positive impact for a Behaviors better life “by” three pillars: • Since transparency is the foundation of strong governance, the company establishes a solid Technology and focusing on Digitalization • Leading innovative products relationship based on trust and integrity with its R&D Local Social Climate Change employees, suppliers, customers and all Climate Change and Economic and Energy • Creating a positive impact for/with stakeholders stakeholders. Development Resource Scarcity • Reducing its impact on the environment • Believing that the profitability and continuity of its Product Quality Occupational Health Water operations depend on strong performance in Demographic and Safety and Safety Stewardship Change Under each pillar, the company “focuses on” certain economic indicators, the company creates shared material issues. Under the pillar of “Leading innovative value for society, the industry and the environment Sustainable Human Chemicals products”, the focus is on R&D, product quality and at the highest level. Raw Material Rights Management safety, and sustainable raw material procurement. Procurement Thought Under the pillar of “Creating a positive impact for/with • Sustainability is an integral part of the company’s Leadership stakeholders”, local social and economic development, brand story. Therefore, the company fulfills its occupational health and safety, human rights and commitments on sustainability. with Economic Brand Innovation Collaboration Transparency Performance Management 14 PASSI ON FOR D EN I M , PAS S IO N FO R LIFE 2018 2019 CALIK DENIM SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2018 2019 CALIK DENIM SUSTAINABILITY REPORT PA S S I O N FO R D E N I M , PA S S I O N FO R LI FE 15 A NEW JOURN EY TO S USTAINABILIT Y 2025 One of the key steps in implementing a sustainability strategy is to set smart targets. Workshops on this subject with representatives from different departments TARGETS are held at Calik Denim, which has set the 2025 Targets, with 2016 as the baseline, under four main titles: Environmental Sustainability, Sustainable Raw Material Procurement, Innovation and Thought Leadership, Internal and External Stakeholder Rights. STRATEGY RELATED SECTION CONTRIBUTION PILLAR OF THE REPORT TO SUSTAINABLE DEVELOPMENT GOALS ENVIRONMENTAL Reducing carbon 100% increase in Reducing water Reducing wastes Reducing our Passion for SUSTAINABILITY emissions per unit power generated consumption per emerging from impact on the Planet production by 20% from renewable unit production production ENVIRONMENT resources as by 30% processes by 30% compared to 2018 PROGRESS IN 2019 6.6% 2.5 times 250% 26% 2% SUSTAINABLE Ensuring that Increasing the use Increasing the number of suppliers Leading Passion for Innovative RAW MATERIAL the chemical of organic, BCI subjected to the audits concerning innovative Products PROCUREMENT substances and recycled environmental and social issues by 30% PRODUCTS procured are cotton to 60% 100% certified Reducing our PROGRESS IN 2019 100% 28.2% 10% impact on the ENVIRONMENT Increasing the Increasing Increasing the ratio of the investments INNOVATION Passion for Innovative impact of R&D, the share of made in collaborations based on the AND THOUGHT Products Product Development income from the sustainability strategy Passion for Denim LEADERSHIP and innovation sustainable product Passion for Life in the total investments investments on category in revenue to 10% Passion for Stakeholders profitability to 20% to 20% and the Industry PROGRESS IN 2019 31% 8% 2.5% INTERNAL AND Internal Raising the Increasing the External Increasing the customer Creating a positive Passion for Innovative Stakeholder employee rate of employees Stakeholder satisfaction rate to 80% EXTERNAL impact for/with Rights engagement rate included in skills Rights Products STAKEHOLDER STAKEHOLDERS RIGHTS to 70% management processes to 16% Passion for Stakeholders To be measured and the Industry PROGRESS IN 2019 in 2020 10.4% (2018) 85% 16 PASSI ON FOR D EN I M , PAS S IO N FO R LIFE 2018 2019 CALIK DENIM SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2018 2019 CALIK DENIM SUSTAINABILITY REPORT PA S S I O N FO R D E N I M , PA S S I O N FO R LI FE 17 A NEW JOURN EY TO S USTAINABILIT Y GRI 102-42, 102-44, 102-47, 102-49 SUSTAINABILITY MATERIAL MANAGEMENT ISSUES The Sustainability Committee was formed at Calik Currently, there are five different workgroups for Material issues to be focused on in the field of priority issues concerning the industry as Denim in 2019 to integrate the sustainability strategy the main groups of 2025 Targets, i.e. Environmental sustainability have been identified to develop the identified by the Sustainability Accounting with the business model and make it an integral part of Sustainability, Sustainable Raw Material Procurement, Passion for Denim Passion for Life strategy through a Standards Board (SASB), the Sustainable Apparel the corporate culture. Works are performed to achieve Innovation and Thought Leadership, and Internal and participatory stakeholder analysis process. Coalition and Sustainable Development Goals. the 2025 Targets and monitor performance progress in External Stakeholder Rights. Employees from different collaboration with the Committee. departments are working in these workgroups and When identifying the priorities of stakeholders; When identifying the priorities of Calik Denim; each workgroup has a group leader. Regular meetings The Sustainability Committee was formed under the are held by the workgroups on a monthly basis, and • Employees and strategic external stakeholders were • Senior management was consulted through leadership of the General Manager and is chaired by the actions to be taken to achieve the targets as well consulted through an online questionnaire. face to-face meetings. the Vice General Manager responsible for Sales and as investment plans are shared with the Committee • Issues that the company is focusing on were Marketing, while the members include the Vice General members. A report on the Committee’s sustainability • An external trend analysis was performed. As part of assessed in line with its business strategy. Manager responsible for the Factory and R&D, Financial efforts is also submitted to senior management on a this process, the global agenda was assessed Affairs Director, Human Resources Manager and quarterly basis. through a detailed review of the global risks and Very high priority and high priority areas have been Sustainability Manager. insights on the future of the textile industry as identified as a result of materiality analysis. indicated by the World Economic Forum, the high SUSTAINABILITY COMMITTEE 1. R&D and innovation very 2. Economic performance CEO important important extremely important 3. Climate change and energy 4. Brand management and reputation 5. Water stewardship Climate change and energy 100.00 Sustainable raw Head of Sustainability Committee material procurement Economic 6. Occupational health and safety Water Performance stewardship 7. Sustainable raw material procurement Waste management R&D and 8. Circular economy 90.00 Circular economy innovation Human rights and fair 9. Product quality and safety Sustainability Committee Stakeholder working conditions Product quality Brand Industrial and safety management 10. Industrial collaborations Analysis Skill management collaborations and reputation 11. Social investment programs Social investment Occupational health Vice General Manager responsible for the Factory and R&D, + 80.00 Sustainable design programs and safety Financial Affairs Director, Human Resources Manager and External Chemicals management 12. Chemicals management Sustainability 13. Consumer trends Sustainability Manager Trends Committe Coordinator Equal opportunity Consumer trends 14. Waste management 70.00 and diversity & Assistant Coordinator 15. Skills management Importance to 16. Sustainable design Sustainability Workgroups Stakeholders 17. Human rights and fair working Ethics and compliance conditions 60.00 18. Equal opportunity and diversity Environmental Sustainable Innovation Stakeholder Rights 19. Environmental-social compliance Sustainability Raw Material and Thought Workgroup and transparency and traceability Workgroup Procurement Leadership 50.00 in the supply chain Workgroup Workgroup External Internal 20. Ethics and compliance 50.00 60.00 70.99 80.00 90.00 100.00 21. Child labor Stakeholder Stakeholder 22. Precarious employment Rights Rights 23. Air emissions Workgroup Workgroup Executives + Strategy Importance to Calik Denim 24. Prevention of corruption and unfair competition 25. Biodiversity 18 PASSI ON FOR D EN I M , PAS S IO N FO R LIFE 2018 2019 CALIK DENIM SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2018 2019 CALIK DENIM SUSTAINABILITY REPORT PA S S I O N FO R D E N I M , PA S S I O N FO R LI FE 19 A NEW JOURN EY TO S USTAINABILIT Y GRI 102-40, 102-42, 102-43, 102-44 DIALOGUE WITH Understanding the opinions, expectations and requirements of the stakeholders involved in the TRANSFORMATION ecosystem is essential in order to be able to make STAKEHOLDERS a positive impact for a better life as part of Calik LAB Denim’s Passion for Denim Passion for Life strategy. Therefore, an effective dialogue is established with the stakeholders in every aspect of the company’s operations through different channels of communication. STAKEHOLDER COMMUNICATION Transformation Lab is considered as one of the most important tools to help the company achieve its With CATEGORY METHODS sustainability strategy of Passion for Denim Passion for Transformation Life. With Transformation Lab, it is aimed to address Lab, it is aimed E-bulletin, one-to-one communication, closed and open meetings, phone calls, internet, social media, Employees e-mail, training, announcements (sharing product marketing materials, fair announcements, etc.) and sustainability issues through innovative methods, make social events dialogue with stakeholders more effective and lead the E-bulletin, one-to-one communication, e-mail, phone calls, fairs, events, factory visits, customer visits, way in the sustainability transformation of the denim to address Customers customer satisfaction surveys, congresses, meetings and panels, social media, sustainability reports, industry. advertisements and news covered in the media, product launches and Denim Anatomy training sustainability issues through Supplier meetings and visits, factory visits, feedback meetings, meetings and panels, phone calls, Transformation Lab is divided into three main areas, Suppliers communication and call centers, online sales portal, social media and sustainability reports i.e. Thought Leadership, Lab Cycle and Transformation innovative methods, Leadership & Learning. All of these areas are General meeting of shareholders, company, corporate website, social media, financial reports, annual interconnected and designed so that they supplement Shareholders each other. Calik Denim creates an innovation make dialogue reports and sustainability reports community with each stakeholder and partner that it Public Organizations On-site visits, factory visits, website, advertisements and news covered in the media, meetings, phone calls, e-mail, social media and programs works with in these three areas. With this tool which helps to set the foundation for new ideas, implement with stakeholders Universities Training and seminars, meetings, e-mail, social media, visits, one-to-one communication and solutions and produce and share know-how, it is aimed to accelerate the sustainability transformation of the more effective and lead the way in university career days industry. the sustainability Non-Governmental E-mail, portal, digital media, social media, factory visits, memberships, joint projects, congressesOrganizations conferences and seminars International Sales One-to-one communication, e-mail, meetings, phone calls, fairs and social media transformation of Consultants the denim industry. Fairs, events, congresses, panel attendance, one-to-one communication, all communication methods Transformation Designers (phone, internet, social media, e-mail, etc.), training programs, corporate launches and CSR projects Lab Transformation Local Communities All communication media, social media and CSR projects Leadership & Learning Fairs, events, congresses, panel attendance, press releases, press meetings, product launches, Media corporate website, e-mail and social media Thought Lab Leadership Cycle 20 PASSI ON FOR D EN I M , PAS S IO N FO R LIFE 2018 2019 CALIK DENIM SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2018 2019 CALIK DENIM SUSTAINABILITY REPORT PA S S I O N FO R D E N I M , PA S S I O N FO R LI FE 21 A NEW JOURN EY TO S USTAINABILIT Y Calik Denim aims LAB CYCLE CORPORATE to be a key thought Calik Denim looks for solutions with stakeholders by GOVERNANCE initiating challenges on certain sustainability issues leader in our area in the industry several times a year. With Lab Cycle, processes are designed, and sustainability issues of expertise. are addressed by utilizing innovative methods with stakeholders. New know-how and solutions are developed for the denim sector. THOUGHT LEADERSHIP Calik Denim embraces a fair, transparent, responsible RISK AND OPPORTUNITIES In 2020, Calik Denim is planning to escalate the and accountable corporate governance approach Driven by the vision of pioneering the sustainability issues to an international level by collaborating with which puts risk management at the center in order to Risk management is a key component of corporate transformation of the industry, Calik Denim sets the international partners that have experience in this field adapt to global trends directly affecting the industry. governance. At Calik Denim, risk management is foundation for new ideas that could change the denim and have developed open innovation methods. done by monitoring and assessing global and local industry and supports the associated research and Since transparency is the foundation of strong developments and trends. It is aimed to identify risks collaborations. Thus, the company aims to be a key governance, a great importance has been attached and opportunities on the right time and update and thought leader in our area of expertise. to establishing a solid relationship based on trust improve its business strategies accordingly. and integrity with all of the stakeholders, including Research especially employees, suppliers and customers. All Therefore, by adhering to Calik Holding’s general risk Calik Denim supports research in high-leverage areas the values, information about the operations and management approach, the risks and opportunities such as circular economy, microfiber, sustainable raw sustainability performance of Calik Denim are shared associated with sustainability are evaluated beyond this materials and new technologies to address high-priority with stakeholders in a transparent and open manner. approach. Changes in consumer behavior, effects of sustainability issues in the denim industry. Conducting advanced technologies and digitalization, escalating research in collaboration with a preeminent university Brand reputation and perception, which are included impacts of the climate crisis, limited resources and or research organization in 2020 by focusing on the among its extremely important material issues, are demographical changes are among the developments subject of circular economy has been planned. also affected by corporate governance. Therefore, that must be closely monitored by the denim industry. the corporate governance practices that are aligned The effects of these developments on business Memberships and Initiatives TRANSFORMATION LEADERSHIP with the ethical principles are developed to contribute are assessed from a risk perspective. At Board of Calik Denim values memberships which allow us to & LEARNING towards an effective brand perception. Director meetings, general information is provided come together with stakeholders, business partners on Calik Denim’s social and environmental risks and and manufacturers from different industries. The As part of our sustainability approach, it is essential to performance. company wishes to join organizations that work towards pioneer sustainability in the denim industry. For this At Calik Denim, the goal of integrating sustainability into the business purpose, Calik Denim shares knowledge, investing in world. Since 2013, Calik Denim has been a member of its employees and joining together with the industry risk management is BCI, an organization established in order to make global leaders of today and tomorrow. The company is cotton production better for the people who produce designing a variety of training and research programs done by monitoring it, better for the environment it grows in and better for through collaboration with universities. For more the sector’s future. Calik Denim is also a participant of information about current collaborations including and assessing global and local UNGC Turkey and a member of the Turkish Industry & those with Parsons New School and Denim Anatomy, Business Association (TÜSİAD), a voluntary organization refer to the Passion for Stakeholders and Industry developments of Turkey’s leading entrepreneurs and executives. section. and trends. 22 PASSI ON FOR D EN I M , PAS S IO N FO R LIFE 2018 2019 CALIK DENIM SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2018 2019 CALIK DENIM SUSTAINABILITY REPORT PA S S I O N FO R D E N I M , PA S S I O N FO R LI FE 23 A NEW JOURN EY TO S USTAINABILIT Y ETHICAL FINANCIAL RISKS BUSINESS A liquidity risk may be encountered in general financing for company operations and in asset management. This may entail risks of failure to provide financing for the Group's assets at convenient Liquidity Risk terms and interest rates, as well as inability to convert a given asset into cash at a reasonable price and time frame. Market risk refers to the possibility of the company experiencing loss of revenue or losses in the value At Calik Denim, all business processes are carried out Violations can be reported to the Ethics Hotline Market Risk of its financial instruments due to changes in market prices such as foreign exchange rates, interest according to corporate values and code of conduct, by sending an e-mail to etikhat@calik.com or rates or equity position. and it is important for Calik Denim to be positioned as calling 0212 306 58 78. Ethical violations and nonCredit risk refers to the risk of a customer or counterparty failing to fulfill their contractual obligations, a company that conducts business in a fair manner compliances are reviewed by the Calik Holding Ethics Credit Risk and it arises primarily from receivables from customers and investment securities. respecting the ethical values which also play a key role Committee according to the Ethics Hotline Code in maintaining a good company reputation in line with of Practice Guidelines. When reporting violations, Operational risk refers to the possibility of the company incurring direct or indirect losses due to a variety of external factors such as legal requirements and generally accepted standards of corporate our corporate values. no personal details are asked, and all information Operational Risk culture other than the risks associated with the processes, personnel, technology and infrastructure of is kept confidential. Furthermore, it is clearly stated the company and credit, market and liquidity risks. For this purpose, the Code of Business Ethics & that no retaliation or disciplinary action will be taken Implementation Guidelines drawn up by the Human against those people who report incorrect behavior or Resources Directorate of Calik Holding is used as participate in or help with the review process. guidance. The rules are defined as key areas which NON-FINANCIAL RISKS directly involve business ethics such as correctness and integrity, objectivity and equity, trade secret protection Digital transformation affects the textile industry, as it does any other industry, in terms of both and privacy, avoiding of conflict of interest, avoiding It is important for Calik Denim to be production and consumer dialogue. At this point, Industry 4.0 presents a broad spectrum of significant from fraud and corruption, former employees’ business Digital opportunities that range from production to improvement of processes. Furthermore, data safety relation with company, unfair competition and violation Transformation positioned as against cyber threats which may arise from digitalization is a key priority. Companies can also notice liability. Calik Denim operates according to benefit from key opportunities such as planning production, and monitoring and managing consumer these principles throughout the entire supply chain. demands by analyzing the big data in their possession. The future of companies depends on the climate crisis that we are facing. Managing the risks Each employee is given information about our Ethical Principles and Ethics Hotline, and each employee a company that associated with climate change, from production to consumption by end users, is essential for the Climate Change survival of companies operating in an industry with a large supply chain like the textile industry. The future of basic resources such as water that could be affected by pressure on the production is provided with the Code of Conduct booklet at recruitment. conducts business of agricultural raw materials, as well as climate change which could affect production, is a key consideration. in a fair manner Water is a critical resource during the entire journey of denim from production to use. Pressure put on respecting the ethical water resources is among the most critical risks that could affect the industry. Calik Denim assesses Water the opportunities that effective management of water can offer in order to ensure business continuity along the entire supply chain. Factors such as an increasing world population, an aging population and expanding middle class values. require the use of different methodologies for conducting consumer analyses. Managing the Demographic Change expectations and demands of the youth brings about issues such as attracting talents to the company from a human resources perspective. It is necessary to diversify products focusing on different age and consumer groups and evaluate their product choices and buying habits. 24 PASSI ON FOR D EN I M , PAS S IO N FO R LIFE 2018 2019 CALIK DENIM SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2018 2019 CALIK DENIM SUSTAINABILITY REPORT PA S S I O N FO R D E N I M , PA S S I O N FO R LI FE 25 PASSI ON FOR I N N OVATIV E PRO DUCTS DENETHIC TECHNOLOGY PASSION FOR With the Denethic concept, the need to wash jeans after sewing is eliminated and this technology INNOVATIVE provides fabrics with a washed look. PRODUCTS Customers who buy denim fabrics manufactured using Denethic technology do not need to wash the fabric after INNOVATION the sewing stage. AND THOUGHT Technology and digitalization, included among the areas which draw more and more attention LEADERSHIP from the actors of the textile industry, improve 2025 TARGETS companies' business processes, products and services as well as social relationships. Digital transformation gives companies the motivation 31% to go beyond competition and respond to Increasing the impact of R&D, WHICH SAVES Product Development and changing consumer demands. Thanks to digital innovation investments on channels of communication, companies are now BOTH WATER profitability to 20% able to connect with their consumers and respond to their demands. AND ENERGY. 8% Increasing the share of income Calik Denim considers innovation as the key to sustainable products. This way, value-added from the sustainable product products are produced with less environmental category in revenue impact, triggering a transformation in the to 20% industry for the sustainability of both denim and life by investing in innovative solutions. As part Increasing the ratio of the of the company approach of Leading innovative 2.5% investments made in collaborations products , the areas of focus are R&D and 44% 15% 32% based on the sustainability strategy innovation, product quality and safety, and Passion for Denim Passion for Life sustainable raw material procurement. in the total investments Therefore, the target of increasing the impact of to 10% R&D, product development and innovation investments on profitability to 20% has already rinse rinse + enzyme bleached been achieved in 2019, much earlier than projected, and this ratio has been raised to 31%. the amount of water used for achieving fabrics with a rinse washed look, rinse+enzyme washed look or bleached look can be reduced by 44%, 15% and 32% 26 PASSI ON FOR D EN I M , PAS S IO N FO R LIFE 2018 2019 CALIK DENIM SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2018 2019 CALIK DENIM SUSTAINABILITY REPORT PA S S I O N FO R D E N I M , PA S S I O N FO R LI FE 27 PASSI ON FOR I N N OVATIV E PRO DUCTS R&D AND and by placing importance on multi-stakeholder collaboration which can enable the company to grow the company is planning to enter into partnerships with industrial players from other countries by engaging INNOVATION together within the ecosystem. For this purpose, Calik Denim is developing partnerships in the field of in know-how transfer which will allow both parties to produce each other’s products. The company R&D and innovation with universities, designers, fairs, is collaborating with many different organizations, suppliers and other brands. These collaborations are including especially universities, in different areas. For based on the transfer of know-how from and to Calik detailed information about the collaborations, see the Denim. In terms of advanced industrial collaborations, table below: Investing in R&D and product development processes In line with developments in the industry, the seventh is one of the top priorities for the denim industry to textile R&D center in Turkey was opened by Calik NAME OF SCOPE OF be able to overcome the global issues that it is facing Denim in 2011 to bring together under one roof its R&D ORGANIZATION COLLABORATION today. Calik Denim, one of the top premium denim and innovation operations and projects, which play a Producing an appropriate type of fabric for use in protective clothing manufacturers in the world, is making investments to key role in maintaining its position as a pioneer. The Dokuz Eylül against pesticides and carrying out performance testing as part of the improve its human resources as well as technological research conducted in this R&D center is not limited to University TUBİTAK (The Scientific and Technological Research Council of Turkey) and physical infrastructure and capabilities. denim and fabrics only. With a total of 64 employees TEYDEB Project including 42 engineers, research on advanced textile Cukurova Developing new-generation textile materials and composite/hybrid yarns products is conducted at the R&D center. Various University and producing value-added denim fabrics studies are being done on products with different functional properties, ranging from nanotechnologies Erciyes Designing and developing multi-component hybrid slub yarns for use in to smart fabrics. University the denim industry as part of the TÜBİTAK TEYDEB Project Designing an automatic fabric defect detection system for use on Driven by the company’s firm belief that innovation will Fırat weaving machines and developing a prototype as part of the TÜBİTAK take the Calik Denim brand forward and strengthen its University TEYDEB Project brand value, the scope of R&D operations is expanded UNIVERSITIES through national and international collaborations Gaziantep Project for reducing the use of chemicals by employing electrospray University technology during dye treatment processes Innsbruck Sustainable process design University • Cleaning denim fabrics with an ultrasonic washing technology as With a total of İnönü University • part of the TÜBİTAK TEYDEB Project Industrial in-house handling automation project (BAP Project) as 64 employees part of Industry 4.0 Project carried out as part of Industry 4.0; Rwth Aachen including 42 University • Identifying Calik Denim’s digitalization potential and transition to the digitalization process engineers, research Süleyman Demirel Developing conductive textile materials through an innovative University and sustainable method on advanced Developing and implementing PU PCM material for thermal Gaziosmanpaşa textile products is University energy storage practices conducted at the R&D center. 28 PASSI ON FOR D EN I M , PAS S IO N FO R LIFE 2018 2019 CALIK DENIM SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2018 2019 CALIK DENIM SUSTAINABILITY REPORT PA S S I O N FO R D E N I M , PA S S I O N FO R LI FE 29 PASSI ON FOR I N N OVATIV E PRO DUCTS NAME OF ORGANIZATION SCOPE OF COLLABORATION TRANSPARENCY MONITORING The company SYSTEM (TMS) AITEX Designing finishing processes to ensure color fastness in white fabrics target is to ensure With TMS, a system developed by focusing on measurable targets, Calik Denim is planning to measure the use of D-Clear the inputs to production and optimize the use of technology in 50% Recycling of microfiber waste loads from Calik Denim by Arçelik as part ARÇELİK of sustainability practices resources throughout the production process. Thanks of indigo dyeing OTHER to the TMS which was installed in 2019, the company Industry 4.0 Project-Efficient use of resources as part of end-to-end ORGANIZATIONS will also contribute to the textile industry by building BOSCH digitalization project, improving and monitoring the parameters that processes for the affect quality and improving efficiency a transparent and more sustainable production line. FLOKSER Denim Velvet Project collections by 2020, LILIENWEIS Sustainable designs and developments to reduce costs and improve 75% by 2023 and performance in warp dyeing processes 100% by 2025. NEXT Developing environment-friendly finishing processes and inspecting TECHNOLOGY fabric/yarn applications DENETHIC Usability of innovative fibers in the form of staple and filament in denim KARACASU İPLİK With the Denethic concept, the need to wash jeans design and production after sewing is eliminated. This technology provides fabrics with a washed look. Customers who buy denim fabrics manufactured using Denethic technology do not need to wash the fabric after the sewing stage, which saves both water and energy. This way, Calik With in-depth experience of more than 30 years in As part of the target of increasing the share of income Denim supports reduction in the use of resources until the industry, Calik Denim pioneered the development from the sustainable product category in revenue to later stages of the supply chain with the innovative of production technologies and innovative products. 20%, the company is developing innovative products technologies that it develops. With this technology, the Having invested approximately 16 million TRY, 2% of its to meet the requirements and needs of the industry. amount of water used for achieving fabrics with a rinse revenue, in R&D operations in 2019, Calik Denim plans As of the end of 2019, the share of income from the washed look, rinse+enzyme washed look or bleached to allocate more than 10% of its revenue to investments sustainable product category in revenue was 8%. look can be reduced by 44%, 15% and 32%, respectively. in the field of innovation in 2025. D-CLEAR With D-Clear technology, Calik Denim will use 40% less water during indigo dyeing and 83% less water during the treatment process, reducing the water consumption per meter of fabric manufactured by more than 5 liters and reducing the volume of the Total budget allocated to R&D chemicals used per meter of fabric manufactured by 94%. D-Clear technology has also been used in 10% of in 2019 is approx. 16 million TRY. the Autumn-Winter 2020-21 collection. The company target is to ensure the use of D-Clear technology in 50% of indigo dyeing processes for the collections by 2020, 75% by 2023 and 100% by 2025. 30 PASSI ON FOR D EN I M , PAS S IO N FO R LIFE 2018 2019 CALIK DENIM SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2018 2019 CALIK DENIM SUSTAINABILITY REPORT PA S S I O N FO R D E N I M , PA S S I O N FO R LI FE 31 PASSI ON FOR I N N OVATIV E PRO DUCTS OXYGENE to reduce the consumption of PRODUCT QUALITY water This concept allows to reduce the consumption of water by 95%, consumption of chemicals by 50% and 95% AND SAFETY consumption of energy by 79%, thereby saving time and minimizing potential pollution. Calik Denim creates awareness in the sector by ensuring that its customers make sustainable production with the concept developed. On the other hand, customer satisfaction to reduce the increases with superior ozone washing effects, stone Calik Denim, one of the top premium denim manufacPERCENTAGE OF PRODUCTS consumption of washing effects in a shorter time, bright look and clear turers in the world, places product quality and safety ASSESSED FOR PRODUCT HEALTH chemicals tones, fabrics with a light touch. Other innovative products that have been developed to 50% at the core of its business processes. The company is committed to offering its customers high-quality, safe products that are designed and produced with sustainAND SAFETY (%) meet the requirements and needs of the industry: ability in mind. With innovative and unique products, the company conforms to international standards to • Lycra denim fabric, ensure the health and safety of end users and maintain • High-resistance denim fabric, to reduce the customer satisfaction at the highest possible level. 2019 100% consumption For this purpose, 100% of the chemicals used in our of energy • • Retina (application of warp thread coating), Natural antibiotic denim fabric (integration of 79% products are meticulously selected so as to achieve at least Level 1 conformance according to ZDHC (Zero Discharge of Hazardous Chemicals) MRSL version 2. aloe vera micro beads), Calik Denim provides documentation with Oeko-Tex, BCI, GOTS, Cotton USA, OCS, GRS, RCS, Nordic Swan • Outlast Denim (thermo-climatic effect), Ecolabel, LCA and EU Ecolabel certificates depending on the type of products. • Elastech completely eliminates many issues such as bagging which is commonly observed in stretch All of Calik Denim’s facilities are certified to international 2018 96% fabrics and high rates of shrinkage in fabrics during standards such as ISO 9001, ISO 14001, ISO 50001, ISO washing, 27001, OHSAS 18001 and ISO 10002. For ISO certificates and detailed information about the use of chemi• Fly Jean is a groundbreaking innovation in the cals, refer to the Passion for Planet section. industry that provides lightness, velvety softness and exceptional elasticity, • Red Carpet brings the satin fabrics in vivid colors from the 1980s to today’s denim world, 2017 70% • Smart Stretch provides comfortable body shaping properties thanks to its smart technology, • Selfsized technology decreases the number of sizes produced at the manufacturing stage of jeans. 32 PASSI ON FOR D EN I M , PAS S IO N FO R LIFE 2018 2019 CALIK DENIM SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2018 2019 CALIK DENIM SUSTAINABILITY REPORT PA S S I O N FO R D E N I M , PA S S I O N FO R LI FE 33 PASSI ON FOR I N N OVATIV E PRO DUCTS SUSTAINABLE RAW 6.4% of the cotton purchased in 2017 by Calik Denim, which became a member of BCI in 2013, was BCISUSTAINABLE RAW MATERIAL PROCUREMENT MATERIAL PROCUREMENT certified; this rate increased to 20.1% in 2019. Organic cotton produced without using toxic materials has been 2025 TARGETS used in production since 2007. Furthermore, it is aimed to ensure that the chemical substances procured are Ensuring that the 100% certified. chemical substances 100% procured are 100% The target is to increase the use of organic and Sustainable business starts with the purchase of certified recycled BCI cotton to 60% by 2025. With Enrich sustainable raw materials. The production of cotton, the Cotton, which is the company’s biggest supplier and 100% main raw material of the denim industry, poses many aims to transform sustainable production and use of challenges such as unfavorable working conditions cotton into the new standard for cotton, it is planned to and inefficient methods of production in terms of the switch completely to BCI-certified products in 2020 and environment. The use of sustainable resources is, on cotton produced entirely in Turkey in 2021. Pioneering the other hand, directly related to the transparency applications in farmer and financial modelling are and integrity of the entire value chain. Calik Denim realized by Enrich Cotton in order to promote the use holds itself accountable not only for sustainable Increasing the use of sustainable raw materials in production. Farmers are agricultural production, but also for a fair and equal of organic, BCI 28.2% informed about the ideal agricultural applications in work environment, being the biggest purchaser in the and recycled cooperation with BCI. regions where its business activities are conducted. cotton to 60% With the guidance of international standards and its own corporate values, Calik Denim does not purchase any agricultural product which is not produced in accordance with good and fair agricultural practices 60% and supports local suppliers. 92% of Calik Denim suppliers consist of local suppliers; and 10% of suppliers were subjected to environmental With the supplier and social audits in 2019. Suppliers are classified into Increasing the number of suppliers groups A, B and C: Group A covers the most critical 10% Enrich Cotton, it is (1.5% of all suppliers), Group B covers moderate subjected to the audits concerning suppliers (28% of all suppliers) and Group C covers planned to switch non-critical suppliers. The works aimed to increase the environmental and social issues suppliers’ awareness about social and environmental completely to issues are planned to be expedited in 2020. Feedback by 30% 30% is given at the conclusion of the audits in order to make BCI-certified improvements and respond to the needs and demands products in of customers. 2020 and cotton produced entirely in Turkey in 2021. 34 PASSI ON FOR D EN I M , PAS S IO N FO R LIFE 2018 2019 CALIK DENIM SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2018 2019 CALIK DENIM SUSTAINABILITY REPORT PA S S I O N FO R D E N I M , PA S S I O N FO R LI FE 35 PASSI ON FOR I N N OVATIV E PRO DUCTS CUSTOMER EXTERNAL EXPERIENCE STAKEHOLDER RIGHTS 2025 TARGET Increasing customer 85% satisfaction rate The textile industry is undergoing a radical from lecturers at İTÜ, the participants are then taken to 80% transformation as a result of changing consumer to the Calik Denim Malatya Factory to be shown the behavior, technology and digitalization, climate change, denim production processes and to be supported with shortage of resources and demographic changes. Calik Denim is integrating sustainability into our business practical information. At the end of the program, İTÜ gives the participants program completion certificates. 80% model with the Passion for Denim Passion for Life sustainability strategy in order to adapt to this changing landscape, respond to differentiating consumer and customer demands, and maintain our leading position Calik Denim is 49% of Calik Denim’s customers are domestic in the denim industry. customers, and the 2025 Targets also include a offering a two-day target for increasing customer satisfaction. Customer On the other hand, the company is investing in satisfaction surveys are conducted, and training is sustainability and innovative products to not only training program provided to the company employees accordingly. reduce the use of natural resources during our Based on a customer satisfaction survey, the customer production processes, but also to help its customers examining in detail satisfaction rate was 85% in 2018. The survey response do the same with their own production processes. With rate was 10% and it is also intended to increase this rate. the Denethic concept, a washed look is achieved in each and every On the other hand, in 2019, a total of 60 employees jeans after sewing without actually washing them by were provided with 676.5 man*hours of training in using a different and innovative technique. Thanks to stage of denim total about Perception and Customer Relationship Denethic technology, customers who buy denim fabrics Management, Current Customer Requests and manufactured by using this technology do not need production, Management of Customer Complaints. to wash the fabric after the sewing stage, which saves both water and energy. starting from Customer complaints received through phone calls and e-mails are responded to by company sales Calik Denim collaborates with its customers as part cotton, to the representatives within five days on average by logging of the company vision to lead the sustainability into the SAP-customer complaints module. In 2019, 939 transformation of the industry. In 2015, Denim Anatomy, managers and out of 944 complaints were responded to (99.4%). which brings together theory and practice, was established in collaboration with İstanbul Technical employees of the Calik Denim is also certified to ISO 27001 Information University (İTÜ) to be able to serve customers as a Security Management System, which is an international solution partner. With this program designed to support brands in this framework designed to ensure that financial industry professionals, Calik Denim is offering a two-day information, intellectual property and customer training program examining in detail each and every industry. details are protected by companies. The company’s stage of denim production, starting from cotton, to preparations continue so as to obtain ISO 27001:2005 the managers and employees of the brands in this Information Security Management System certification. industry. After receiving theoretical training on denim 36 PASSI ON FOR D EN I M , PAS S IO N FO R LIFE 2018 2019 CALIK DENIM SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2018 2019 CALIK DENIM SUSTAINABILITY REPORT PA S S I O N FO R D E N I M , PA S S I O N FO R LI FE 37 PASSION FOR STAKEHOLDERS AND INDUSTRY Calik Denim utilizes the power of collaboration when PASSION FOR creating value for society and all stakeholders. ER SITIE S CUSTOMERS STAKEHOLDERS UNIV AND INDUSTRY SU PP The company is focused LI ER on empowering the industry S and society by working together with stakeholders within a large S EMPLOYEE ecosystem consisting of EMPLOYEES, SUPPLIERS, CUSTOMERS AND INNOVATION AND THOUGHT LEADERSHIP 2.5% to 10% BUSINESS PARTNERS. 2025 TARGET AT I O N ENTS M Increasing the ratio of the investments made in N collaborations based on the sustainability strategy GO NO Passion for Denim Passion for Life in the total VE NIS R Ninvestments to 10% GA GO V ER R O N M E N TA L The sustainability of the business depends on the creation of long-term value for all stakeholders.In order to achieve this, thought leadership, local social and economic development, occupational health and safety, and human rights are inclined and expanding the value that is created through practices in these areas are emphasized. This way, it is aimed to achieve growth for/with stakeholders to ensure continuous growth of the company's own business. 38 PASSION FOR DENIM, PASSION FOR LIFE 2018 2019 CALIK DENIM SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2018 2019 CALIK DENIM SUSTAINABILITY REPORT PASSION FOR DENIM, PASSION FOR LIFE 39 PASSION FOR STAKEHOLDERS AND INDUSTRY SUSTAINABILITY TRANSFORMATION LEADERSHIP LENZING X ÖZAK TEKSTİL X In the business world, transfer of expertise and practical CALIK DENIM skills plays a key role in the alignment of ways of doing business according to today’s world and industry Calik Denim conducted a project in conditions. Calik Denim accepts thought leadership collaboration with Özak Tekstil and as a significant agent of transformation for industries Lenzing to highlight the sustainability and societies and aims to contribute to the efforts for practices in different steps of the denim empowering the industry and society by positioning apparel supply chain. A capsule collection itself as a thought leader in the areas that it focuses on was prepared by Özak Tekstil using with high priority. The company is collaborating with Calik Denim’s fabrics containing Tencel stakeholders that have expertise in different strategic Lyocell fiber manufactured by using the Austria-based Lenzing company’s circular areas and is also actively engaged in multi-stakeholder economy solution Refibra technology. The initiatives. capsule collection, which was prepared using washing technologies with less In order to create added value for society, the CALIK DENIM X LYCRA / CRADLE TO environmental impact and contained CRADLE PRODUCT INNOVATION company is developing joint projects with universities, items that were all classified within the INSTITUTE (C2C) empowering the youth and transferring its expertise low environmental impact category, was obtained as a result of being a part of the industry for presented at Calik Denim’s display stand All Lycra fibers used in Calik Denim's so many years to the next generations. As a result of at the Denim Premiere Vision fair held in products have been awarded the this approach, Parsons New School added a Denim London between 3-4 December 2019. Gold-level Material Health certificate Department in 2017 as part of national and international PARSONS X CALIK DENIM by the Cradle to Cradle Product collaborations. In collaboration with Istanbul Technical Innovation Institute. In collaboration University (İTÜ), the Denim Anatomy training program Denim Department has been added to the syllabus with the Lycra company, a special hang was established for the employees and managers of the under the scope of the program initiated in 2017 by tag to be attached to the products was customer companies. Parsons New School in collaboration with Calik Denim. designed to highlight on the products This cooperation which started in 2017 had its first-ever this instance of added value which is graduates during the same year and second graduates We have joined important for circular economy. These hang tags were used in the in 2018. The curriculum of the program consists of new collection. two parts, Building Blocks of Denim and Prototype the UNGC in line Development and Realization. The curriculum of the 2019-2020 period has been prepared focused on with our focus on the sustainability, covering the issues of sustainable production and design module. collaborations with The department offers students who want to specialize business world. in the field of denim the opportunity to learn all details about denim from production processes of fabrics to 40 PASSION FOR DENIM, PASSION FOR LIFE 2018 2019 CALIK DENIM SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2018 2019 CALIK DENIM SUSTAINABILITY REPORT PASSION FOR DENIM, PASSION FOR LIFE 41 PASSION FOR STAKEHOLDERS AND INDUSTRY their design and washing techniques. The program DENIM ANATOMY The first event where concepts such as innovation, provides various opportunities for the students to technology and sustainability were also covered extend their sectoral information, experience and In 2015, the Denim Anatomy program was established along with the trends guiding the future of the sector visions. In all works carried out at the Department in collaboration with İTÜ to serve customers as a was held on October 23, 2018 with the participation including training on fabrics and design, students are solution partner. This program is intended to contribute of the experts involved in different sectors and informed about Calik Denim fabrics. Experienced team to the development of industry professionals including disciplines. Ken Segall, the former Creative Director of Calik Denim supports this program and department managers. With a total of five programs completed of Apple, who is among the main speakers of the students are included in the customer visits. The by 2018, a two-day training program examining in event organized at Theater Amsterdam, talked about best five designs are selected by a jury among the detail each and every stage of denim production, the future of simplicity and innovation while Matthew graduation collections prepared by the students using starting from cotton, was offered to 106 managers Drinkwater, Head of London College of Fashion’s Calik Denim fabrics at the end of each period. These and employees of brands in the denim industry. After Innovation Agency, shared his opinions on the wearable designs are exhibited in the events and fairs where receiving theoretical training on denim from lecturers at technology trends to direct the future of the fashion Calik Denim participates in; the best three designers İTÜ, the participants are then taken to the Calik Denim industry. Thimon de Jong, the founder of Whetston are given the opportunity to do internship and actively Malatya Factory to be shown the denim production EVER EVOLVING TALKS Strategic Foresight Firm, also gave information on experience denim sector at Malatya Plant. processes and to be supported with practical BY CALIK DENIM the purchasing preferences and behaviors of Y and Z information. At the end of the program, the participants generations. become eligible to receive the program completion Based on the company’s motto Ever Evolving which certificates issued by İTÜ. emphasizes continuous development, the Ever Evolving Talks by Calik Denim event, which is intended to bring The Ever Evolving Talks by Calik In the future, it is planned to hold this training program industry stakeholders together and support their twice a year and allow foreign customers to also attend. collective development, has been held in Amsterdam in Denim event, October each year since 2018. At Calik Denim, New technologies and new methodologies are required which is intended it is considered to be developed for being able to respond to the ever-changing conditions in the denim industry. At to bring industry essential that Calik Denim, it is considered essential that the industry stakeholders come together to rethink and design the stakeholders the industry future together. During the event, participants from different industries come together to produce solutions together and More than 40 students have joined the program which stakeholders come to the problems under the leadership of Calik Denim has been offered for three years. Calik Denim intends and numerous speakers take the stage to share their support their to maintain this collaboration in the coming years and together to rethink views. While the company is introduced to many global is also planning to initiate this type of program at other brands that are not Calik Denim customers yet, the collective prestigious fashion schools. and design the brand image also gains value via this platform. development, future together. has been held in Amsterdam in October each year since 2018. 42 PASSION FOR DENIM, PASSION FOR LIFE 2018 2019 CALIK DENIM SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2018 2019 CALIK DENIM SUSTAINABILITY REPORT PASSION FOR DENIM, PASSION FOR LIFE 43 PASSION FOR STAKEHOLDERS AND INDUSTRY Furthermore, sessions of “Sustainability in terms of Brand” by Adriana Galijasevic, G-Star Raw Denim and networks and brand positioning can be eliminated. Via this technology used to renew the textile industry, the LOCAL Sustainability Expert; Rune Orloff, the founder of Sardin. co; Roian Atwood, Wrangler Sustainability Director; customers all over the world can have access to the alluring product range. Furthermore, this technology DEVELOPMENT and Zedonk’s founder Marcia Lazar; “The Future of the facilitates access to the products, mobile product Fashion” by Matthew Williams, the founder of the brand customization, immediate delivery and easy return ALYX; Ouigi Theodore, The Brooklyn Circus Creative processes. Via the increasing computerization in Director; and Sam Lambert and Shaka Maidoh who are areas such as sewing, pattern drawing and knitting, the founding partners of Art Comes First; “Power of production develops more than ever at the same time. Cooperation” by Alec Leach, the Highsnobeity Digital Calik Denim believes that companies with a sustainable 100% SUPPORT TO EDUCATION Fashion Editor; Lukas Vincent, Ex Infinitas founder and business model should focus on the communities in designer; Willy Chavarria, the founder and designer their regions and support local development. Therefore, Mahmut Çalık Education Complex Anatolian High of Willy Chavaria and Izzy Joly, the Creative & Brand empowering the farmers who grow cotton, which is School was opened in 2012 which was built as part of Partnerships Specialist of Avery Dennison allowed the one of the main raw materials used in the company’s the 100% Support to Education project. The complex, speakers to share their opinions. products, is vitally important for Calik Denim to ensure built over an area of 40,000 m², includes a nursery and business continuity and support local development. houses both a secondary school and high school. Enrich Cotton, which is an affiliate of Calik Holding and also one of the largest cotton suppliers of Calik Denim, MORE BOOKS FOR A BETTER FUTURE carries out leading practices to support farmers and offer financing models. The farmers are also informed During the first half of 2018, approximately 2,000 about the ideal agricultural applications in cooperation books consisting of world classics were acquired by with Better Cotton Initiative (BCI). In the future, it is the company for schools in the Ahlat district of Bitlis. We had also an interview titled “Overcoming Climate planned to implement practices that will ensure the Setting out with the motto “More books for a better Change” with former NFL player and NASA astronaut farmers’ products are purchased at the right time and future”, the aim is for the habit of reading to be instilled Leland Devon Melvin and The Bear Scouts Founding at the right price. among the new generations who will shape the future Ever Evolving Talks by Calik Denim 2019 took place in Partner and WGSN Denim & Sustainability Director Dio and for the literacy rate to be increased as well. Theater Amsterdam on October 22nd this year. The Kurazawa during the event. Moreover, in the session In Turkey, by employing a high number of people in event hosted esteemed speakers with a high level titled “How can the business world and goodness Malatya, the province in which Calik Denim’s factory CALIK VOLUNTEERS IN KARS of participation on the international platform. Beside come together with BCorp?”, Mud Jeans Founder and is located, Calik Denim supports the socioeconomic the trends to guide the future of the sector, concepts CEO Bert Van Son and B LAB Europe’s Manager Nathan development of the region as well as the education so Calik Volunteers visited the Kars Çığırgan Köyü Primary such as Blockchain system, consumption habits of Gilbert met with the audience; Fashion Revolution’s as the social development of Malatya. School on 7-8 January 2018. The clothes, school generation Z and climate change have been dwelt Special Projects Curator Tamsin Blanchard, Bethany supplies and toys that had been collected by the upon. Williams’ Founder and Creative Director Bethany MALATYA EDUCATION FOUNDATION volunteers were distributed to students in need. Williams, Ahluwalia Studio’s Creative Director Priya One of the main speakers, Matt Britton, who is a Ahluwalia and Wright Le Chapelain’s Founding Partner Calik Denim supports and provides scholarships to millennium and generation Z expert revealed the future Wright Imogen shared their opinions in the session the students who need economic assistance through of the consumers in his speech which was mainly of “Future Belongs to Women, Conversation with the Malatya Education Foundation as being awared focused on the consumption habits and trends of the Responsible and Creative Women”. of the importance of the younger generation in terms generation born as at 2000 and named Gen Z; on the of our future. The children of our employees are also other hand, Jessi Baker who is the Founder and CEO To access the event website and get more information, able to benefit from the scholarships given through the of Provenance explained the actions to be taken for a click here. foundation. transparent supply chain via Blockchain technology. Blockchain technology has attracted attention recently to eliminate frauds in the fashion industry. Thanks to this technology, textile and fashion industry becomes more transparent and issues of fraudulent supply chain 44 PASSION FOR DENIM, PASSION FOR LIFE 2018 2019 CALIK DENIM SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2018 2019 CALIK DENIM SUSTAINABILITY REPORT PASSION FOR DENIM, PASSION FOR LIFE 45 PASSION FOR STAKEHOLDERS AND INDUSTRY TALENT Calik Denim HOURS OF TRAINING PER EMPLOYEE MANAGEMENT INTERNAL STAKEHOLDER RIGHTS 2025 TARGETS Academy was 2019 established in 2018. reached 16 hours, increasing Raising the by 45% employee Employee training, career planning and social benefits By working with the right talents, the company’s engagement rate to are provided to every employee according to the Human Resources Procedure starting from recruitment. 16.3 passion for denim is taken one step further. Therefore, Calik Denim is developing employee programs as 2018 the focus is on developing the skills of our employees part of skills management and aims to increase the and attracting the right talents that will embrace the 70% rate of employees included in skills management company’s purpose of making a positive impact for a better life as part of the Passion for Denim Passion for processes from 10.4% to 16% by 2025. Efforts are made to continuously improve employee satisfaction 13.4 Life strategy. Calik Denim Employee Handbooks are and engagement. For this purpose, the Calik Denim distributed to the employees so as to facilitate their Academy was established in 2018 to support the 2017 adaptation to the company’s culture, inform them about Increasing the training and development of our employees as well as human resources practices and allow them to monitor rate of employees customers and suppliers. Training and development the processes. included in skills management programs are the high-priority focus areas of the Academy. Therefore, programs are being developed to 11.2 Calik Denim’s ever-growing team reached a total of processes to improve the occupational knowledge and skills of the The Calik Denim 2,398 people in 2019 with a 21% increase compared to company employees as well as their ability to adapt to 2017. 12% of the company employees are white-collar new technologies. Management programs are offered 16% 10.4% workers, 88% of them are blue-collar workers and, while 29% of the white-collar workers are females, 71% of to support the development of mid and top-level managers. With the Academy, it is planned to design Academy Library them are males. specific training programs per title and position, create an internal training pool, establish a coaching system which consists of and initiate a blue-collar mentorship program. personal BREAKDOWN OF EMPLOYEES PER CATEGORY (%) The Academy brought about a significant increase in the amount of employee training. Hours of training development books White Blue given to the employees reached 38,958 man*hours, increasing by 76% in 2019 compared to 2017. was opened at the Collar Collar Accordingly, hours of training per employee reached 16 hours, increasing by 45% during the same period. Total end of 2019. hours of training given to subcontractors reached 366 12% 88% man*hours, a 3.5-fold increase. Calik Denim Academy offers a program named “Stars of the Field” which is designed to improve the 2,398 people management skills of technicians, team leaders and foremen who occupy mid-level managerial positions 71% 29% Total Employees directly above the blue-collar workers. So far, 241 Male Female employees have attended this training series which lasts six months and consists of 13 modules. Employees who attended the course and passed the exams graduated from the Academy. 46 PASSION FOR DENIM, PASSION FOR LIFE 2018 2019 CALIK DENIM SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2018 2019 CALIK DENIM SUSTAINABILITY REPORT PASSION FOR DENIM, PASSION FOR LIFE 47 PASSION FOR STAKEHOLDERS AND INDUSTRY management. After the presentations, successful HEALTHY AND SAFE WORK HOURS OF OHS TRAINING PER TRAINING COLLABORATION WITH candidates are hired. As a result of this collaboration ENVIRONMENT EMPLOYEE MIMAR SINAN FINE ARTS UNIVERSITY which started in 2018, so far 11 out of 36 interns who completed their projects have been hired by Calik At Calik Denim, protecting the health and safety of A training program was designed in 2 times Denim. all employees and subcontractors is a top priority. collaboration with Mimar Sinan Fine Arts Since 2015, the occupational health and safety (OHS) University Textile and Fashion Design PERFORMANCE DEVELOPMENT processes have been managed in accordance with 19 Training and Research Center to support 20 the OHSAS 18001 Occupational Health and Safety the advancement of R&D and Product Development teams. During the program, Recognizing that business success depends on Management System. The highest ranked executive 12.3 competent and experienced employees, Calik Denim that is responsible for OHS is the Administrative Affairs which consists of 10 modules including supports the development of its employees, monitors Director who is two levels below the CEO in rank. sustainability in design, history of fashionstyle, innovative developments in design, their performance and does career planning together preparation of technical drawings and with them based on their qualifications. Performance Active engagement of the employees in OHS processes 2018 moulds in apparel design, the employees not Management processes are implemented according is important and OHS training is provided on a regular only receive theoretical knowledge, but they also work on product fits and model molding. to the Human Resources Procedure established by Calik Holding. Performance reviews are conducted basis. In 2019, the hours of OHS training doubled compared to 2017, increasing to 12.3 hours of training 6.8 on a semi-annual basis to measure the progress of per employee and 29,237 man*hours of training in total. 1 7 employees achieving their yearly targets in alignment During the same period, the hours of subcontractor 20 The Calik Denim Academy also provides whitewith the company strategy and to identify their training training also increased by 5% reaching 2,232 hours of collar workers with training on communication, time management, coping with stress, being a team, needs and areas of improvement. The performance reviews are conducted by the related department training in total. 6.6 interviewing techniques and business law. managers along with the employees. In 2019, 12% of all of company employees were included in performance In 2019, the hours of OHS training The Calik Denim Academy Library, which consists of and career development reviews. personal development books, was opened at the end practice is intended to improve the OHS culture among doubled, increasing of 2019. The library has approximately 80 books. Newly The wages of the employees are also affected by employees and reduce the number of accidents and published books are being closely monitored and the their performance reviews. Based on Calik Holding’s lost days by taking the necessary actions. company is maintaining its efforts to enhance the library. In addition, Calik Denim Academy also publishes Wage Management Procedure, the responsibilities assumed by all employees and their performance to 12.3 hours 6 Sigma methodology is being implemented to reduce a list of suggested articles, videos and books on the subject of the month on a regular basis. are considered using the HAY salary system. Calik Holding has a salary range for each position to ensure of training per the number of lost days due to accidents at work and improve business processes. With this methodology, Furthermore, collaboration projects are carried out fair remuneration. Employees who demonstrate high performance can receive higher pay raises. Yearly pay employee. it is intended to analyze the root causes of accidents at work and produce permanent solutions. In one area with universities to attract new talents and support the raises are implemented upon recommendation of the where the 6 Sigma methodology was implemented, development of university students. HR Department and approval of the Company General In order to produce permanent solutions for preventing 55 improvement actions were taken, and a 44.5% Manager. recurrence of accidents at work and increase the improvement was achieved in accident severity rate. In collaboration with Gaziantep University, Fırat effectiveness of training, an OHS training room Thanks to the improvements made, there were no fatal University, Gazi University, Marmara University and Feedback from employees on our human resources was built and simulation equipment was installed, accidents in 2019. İnönü University, the students selected through practices is considered and works are performed to representing existing risks associated with equipment interviews are offered the chance to work as interns improve the processes based on their requests. All in the workplace. The training room is intended to allow As per legal requirements, occupational health and at the Calik Denim Malatya Factory for four months. employee feedback on any subject is evaluated and the workers to learn the existing risks in the workplace safety risk assessments are carried out every four years. Following a two-week general orientation program, the solutions are created accordingly. In 2019, 63% of 83 by experiencing them through simulations. Additionally, updates are made in the risk assessment in students can start to work on the projects assigned by employee feedback reports were resolved. certain situations as set out in the legislation, including the related departments. Each intern is responsible for Calik Denim uses the WSA (Work Safety Analysis) upon any change in the technologies, materials, working on a project and at the end of the internship It is planned to conduct employee satisfaction and mobile reporting program to report and maintain equipment and methods used on the premises or upon program, the interns deliver project presentations engagement surveys on a regular basis starting from records of unsafe situations, unsafe behavior and amendment of the legislation or upon any accident at at a closing meeting also attended by the senior 2020. near-miss incidents that are observed in the field. This work, occupational disease or near-miss incident. 48 PASSION FOR DENIM, PASSION FOR LIFE 2018 2019 CALIK DENIM SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2018 2019 CALIK DENIM SUSTAINABILITY REPORT PASSION FOR DENIM, PASSION FOR LIFE 49 PASSION FOR 4 TONS OF CARBON EMISSIONS WERE ELIMINATED DUE TO In 2019, the RENEWABLE ENERGY. total amount PLANET of environmental spending and At Calik Denim, investments the water reached approx. The effects of the climate crisis on the world such as fluctuating rainfall regimes/reduced rainfall and intensity per product has been 4.1 million TRY. temperature increases result in extreme pressure on agricultural production. These changes and reduced by 11% fluctuations are disrupting the textile industry, which provides income to more than 300 million people around the world, and directly affect production. The most significant environmental impact of the textile industry is the intense water use throughout the entire process, from production of raw materials to THE PERCENTAGE OF BCI, ORGANIC ENVIRONMENTAL the finished products, and gradual depletion of water resources is one of the most critical risks that could AND RECYCLED COTTON WITHIN SUSTAINABILITY affect the industry. Apart from water use intensity, the textile industry is also one of the industries in THE ENTIRE AMOUNT OF COTTON 2025 TARGETS which the most pollutants are released due to the use of chemicals in various processes such as dyeing. USED IN PRODUCTION REACHED The textile industry must embrace a proactive APPROXIMATELY 28% IN 2019. 20% reduction approach and start identifying all environmental risks and opportunities and take all necessary precautions. in carbon emissions per unit In a scenario where such precautions are not taken, it 6.6% production is estimated that the associated risks will cost the textile industry 192 billion USD by 2030. In 2019, 100% of the hazardous 100% increase Calik Denim integrates its sustainability strategy, waste generated during production in power generated from Passion for Denim Passion for Life, with its business renewable resources as 250% model and carries out its operations as a responsible WAS RECYCLED. compared to 2018 fashion company. Based on this strategy, it is aimed to effectively manage the risks that could affect the 30% reduction denim industry and make the most of the opportunities. The company focuses on energy in water consumption per management issues such as increasing energy 26% unit production efficiency and use of renewables in combating climate change and improving its performance in ,680 TR 4,146,234T 30% reduction water, chemical and waste management through R&D practices. YEARLY 2017 178 Y RY in waste resulting from ENVIRONMENTAL production processes 2% Calik Denim has been increasing its environmental 2018 R 17 T Y spending and investments for the last three years. In SPENDING AND 2019, environmental spending and investments 879, INVESTMENTS (TRY) 2019 6 increased by 370%, reaching 4.1 million TRY. Additionally, thanks to the actions taken, no environmental penalties have been imposed on the company in the last three years. PASSION FOR PLANET CLIMATE CHANGE WATER AND ENERGY STEWARDSHIP Human-induced carbon emissions have been rapidly in production. The yearly production increased 2.5-fold Rapid depletion of natural resources must be stopped, increasing for the last 30 years. In today’s world, and reached 9.3 MWh in 2019 compared to 3.8 MWh and sustainable water management practices must plagued by record temperatures and natural disasters in 2018. This increase means that 4 tons of carbon be adopted for the next generations and business WASTEWATER TREATMENT due to extreme weather events, the textile industry is emissions were eliminated per year. It is planned to continuity. The textile industry is responsible for PROJECT responsible for 10% of the global carbon emissions from install and begin using a rooftop photovoltaic power consuming 4% of the available fresh water in the world. the production stage to the finished product. While station at the Malatya Factory as at May 2020. When the Additionally, the amount of water needed for growing With the wastewater treatment project initiated in 2019, it is aimed to recycle governments take action to reduce carbon emissions installation is complete, it is expected to produce 1,343 cotton, one of the main raw materials used in the textile 70% of the production wastewater in accordance with the Paris Agreement, the business MWh of electricity per year, reduce carbon emissions industry, can be as much as 20 thousand liters per 1 kg in accordance with Zero Discharge world must also play a key role by increasing R&D by 577 tons, and help the factory save 92,500 USD on of cotton in areas with inadequate water management of Hazardous Chemicals (ZDHC) investments and focus on innovative technologies that electricity bills. practices. Therefore, effective water stewardship is standards and have the remaining 30% would reduce carbon emissions. In the event that such needed throughout the entire value chain from farmers treated at the organized industrial precautions are not taken, and the industry does not to end users. At Calik Denim, the water intensity per zone (OIZ) treatment system in undergo a transformation, it is estimated that carbon product has been reduced by 11% compared to 2017. Ratio of renewable accordance with OIZ standards. The emissions will increase by 60% by 2030. With new investments to be made, it is aimed to reduce wastewater treatment system to be built with this project, which is energy used the water intensity by 30% by 2025. Therefore, Calik Denim is investing in R&D and being carried out with an investment of 2 million EUR, is expected to be in production renewable energy technologies to increase sustainable WATER INTENSITY (kg/m) production by using less energy and water. The completed and commissioned in 2020. Continuous Emission Measurement System has also been implemented as well as the Waste Management increased 2.5-fold 2019 and Energy Monitoring System. With the Energy compared to last 11% reduction 57.72 Monitoring System, energy, air and water consumption Calik Denim focuses on sustainable technologies that of all plants and machinery is monitored and reported transparently. year. decrease fresh water and increase recycled water use in production processes. Thanks to the Oxygene 2018 concept, 95% less water, 50% less chemicals and 79% The aim of the company is to increase its renewable less energy is used during the washing stage. Denethic energy production by 100% by 2025 compared to Calik Denim received the Higg Index Facility technology helps us save water during the production 2018. It is also intended to reduce carbon emissions per unit by 20% by 2025 through energy efficiency Environmental Module certificate developed by the Sustainable Apparel Coalition. With the Facility 58.45 processes of the company, but it also saves water by eliminating the need for customers to rewash products and renewable energy investments. In 2019, carbon Environmental Module, which is a tool used to measure thanks to the ready-to-use “cut and sew” fabrics. For emissions per unit production were reduced by 6.6%. and assess the annual environmental performance 2017 more information, refer to the Passion for Innovative and impact of production facilities, the environmental Products section. Thanks to the energy efficiency investments, the performance of the company is measured, and the company’s energy consumption per meter of product results are shared with all stakeholders. 64.73 has been reduced to the lowest level of the last three years. In 2019, the company vigorously continued its efforts to increase the ratio of renewable energy used 52 PASSION FOR DENIM, PASSION FOR LIFE 2018 2019 CALIK DENIM SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2018 2019 CALIK DENIM SUSTAINABILITY REPORT PASSION FOR DENIM, PASSION FOR LIFE 53 PASSION FOR PLANET CHEMICALS WASTE MANAGEMENT MANAGEMENT The chemicals that are used or released during the production, use and disposal of clothing have various The percentage While 25% of discarded textiles are collected for recycling and reuse throughout the world, this rate is effects on the environment and human health. of organic cotton only about 10% in most developed countries, in which Herbicides and pesticides used during cotton farming the use of textile products is high. It is estimated that can have serious effects on the farmers’ health and within the entire 150 million tons of clothing waste will be disposed of the environment by leaching into water resources. In by being sent to incineration plants or landfills in 2050. countries with insufficient regulations, chemical buildup amount of cotton This is why effective management of waste throughout In 2020, the company will launch a project titled “Deriving Insulation in humans and other living creatures is caused by the the value chain plays a key role in minimizing dyes and chemicals that leach into water resources. procured increased environmental impact. Materials from Cotton Waste” with İzmir Kâtip Çelebi University for from 2% in 2018 The denim industry must transform itself, and a reliable management of waste generated chemicals management system must be used to Hazardous and non-hazardous waste generated as during production processes and to 7% in 2019. protect the health of employees and consumers and a result of all processes at Calik Denim facilities are compete in the MANUNET project. eliminate the negative effects on the environment. collected and sorted individually for recycling, recovery and proper disposal. All efforts are made to minimize With the project titled “Dye and Calik Denim, a member of the Better Cotton Initiative the impact on human health and the environment by Fiber Recovery from Denim Fabrics (BCI), is planning to use only BCI-certified cotton in Calik Denim continues its efforts to gradually eliminate managing waste in a proper and effective way. in a Cost-Effective and Environment2020 with its largest cotton supplier Enrich Cotton and the use of chemicals in production processes. Since Friendly Way”, Calik Denim has reached fully switch to locally produced cotton in 2021. 2007, the company has been procuring and using Calik Denim has Recycle and Oeko-Tex certificates the finals in the waste and resource cotton which is farmed without using toxic substances. which are used as guidance for the company’s waste management category of the Edie Sustainability Leaders Awards contest. The percentage of organic cotton within the entire management processes, and contracts have been amount of cotton procured increased from 2% in 2018 made with related waste disposal firms for hazardous to 7% in 2019. The percentage of BCI, organic and waste and with recycling firms for other non-hazardous recycled cotton within the entire amount of cotton waste. With new projects, it is aimed to reduce the used in production reached approximately 28% in waste generated during production by 30% by 2025. 2019. Furthermore, investments continue in order to As of 2019, Calik Denim has reached a 2% reduction be included in Zero Discharge of Hazardous Chemicals in waste generation. In 2019, 100% of the hazardous (ZDHC) and detox programs. waste generated during production was recycled. The company recycled 18% of non-hazardous waste and The company’s environmental impact, including the sent the remaining waste to landfills. use of chemicals and water in particular, is significantly reduced by the D-Clear and Denethic technologies. For more information, refer to the Passion for Innovative Products section. 54 PASSION FOR DENIM, PASSION FOR LIFE 2018 2019 CALIK DENIM SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2018 2019 CALIK DENIM SUSTAINABILITY REPORT PASSION FOR DENIM, PASSION FOR LIFE 55 APPENDIX CORPORATE PERFORMANCE MEMBERSHIPS INDICATORS • İstanbul Textile and Apparel Exporters Association ENVIRONMENTAL PERFORMANCE INDICATORS • İstanbul Mineral and Metals Exporters Association ENERGY CONSUMPTION 2017 2018 2019 • Central Anatolian Exporters Association (KWh) • Uludağ Exporters Association Natural Gas 42,651,898 45,887,788 59,384,106 • Eastern Anatolian Exporters Association General Secretariat Electricity 107,654,765 110,633,232 105,894,034 • R&D Centers Communication and Collaboration Platform (ARGEMİP) Coal 183,238,675 194,504,423 183,678,521 • Bursa Technology Coordination and R&D Center (BUTEKOM) Fuel-Oil 155,749 139,147 105,507 • Technical Textiles Research and Development Center (TEKSMER) • Southeast Anatolia Exporters Association ENERGY INTENSITY • Malatya Chamber of Commerce Total energy 341,526,580 359,413,520 355,284,870 consumption (kWh) • İstanbul Chamber of Commerce Total production per year 42,256,457 42,510,831 44,086,396 • Cotton Textiles Industry Association (meters of fabric) Energy intensity (total energy/total 8.08 8.45 8.06 • Turkish Clothing Manufacturers Association production = kwh/m) AMOUNT OF NON-HAZARDOUS WASTE (tons) Total amount of 5,443.769 10,310.436 13,172 non-hazardous waste Amount sent to regular storage/solid 7,667.69 7,673.34 10,795 waste landfill Recycled 5,443.77 3,393.16 2,377 56 PASSION FOR DENIM, PASSION FOR LIFE 2018 2019 CALIK DENIM SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2018 2019 CALIK DENIM SUSTAINABILITY REPORT PASSION FOR DENIM, PASSION FOR LIFE 57 APPENDIX AMOUNT OF HAZARDOUS 2017 2018 2019 AIR EMISSIONS 2017 2018 2019 WASTE (tons) (tons) Total amount of 228.19 268.9 235 NOx 3.77 12.94 hazardous waste Recycled 235.9 248.75 234 SOx 14.46 9.28 Persistent Organic 0 0 Pollutants (POPs) Volatile Organic WATER CONSUMPTION 1.68 1.68 Compounds (VOCs) (tons) Underground water 2,735,170 2,484,909 2,544,596 (well water) AMOUNT OF WASTEWATER (tons) Amount of recycled/ 321,718 242,568 202,158 reused water Amount of 2,413,452 2,242,341 2,342,438 wastewater WATER INTENSITY (kg/m) Total amount of 2,735,170 2,484,909 2,544,596 water drawn (kg) Total production 42,256,457 42,510,831 44,086,396 (meters of fabric) Amount of water drawn per product 64.73 58.45 57.72 (kg/m) 58 PASSION FOR DENIM, PASSION FOR LIFE 2018 2019 CALIK DENIM SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2018 2019 CALIK DENIM SUSTAINABILITY REPORT PASSION FOR DENIM, PASSION FOR LIFE 59 APPENDIX GRI 102-41 NUMBER OF 2017 2018 2019 SOCIAL PERFORMANCE INDICATORS EMPLOYEES PER LENGTH OF SERVICE Female Male Female Male Female Male 2017 2018 2019 0-5 years 25 591 40 1102 48 1238 Female Male Female Male Female Male 5-10 years 18 595 18 251 20 432 Total number of 70 1,906 79 1,994 83 2,315 employees 10 years or more 22 713 15 640 16 645 Number of white69 159 78 176 81 200 collar workers Number of blue1 1,747 1 1,818 2 2,115 collar workers EMPLOYEES Number of IN EXECUTIVE employees covered POSITIONS Female Male Female Male Female Male 0 816 0 973 0 1,014 by collective bargaining Below 30 years 0 0 0 0 0 0 of age 30-50 years 6 26 7 30 7 29 FullPartFullPartFullPartof age time time time time time time Above 50 years Number of 0 0 0 0 0 1 of age employees per length 1,975 1 2,069 4 2,393 5 of service Number of female and male members Number of white0 2 0 2 0 5 227 1 250 4 276 5 of the Board of collar workers Directors Number of blue1,748 0 1,819 0 2,117 0 collar workers NUMBER OF Female Male Female Male Female Male EMPLOYEES LEAVING THE Number of COMPANY PER subcontractors per 13 18 13 16 13 38 gender GENDER AND AGE Female Male Female Male Female Male Total 6 337 3 395 10 328 FullPartFullPartFullParttime time time time time time Below 30 years 2 119 1 176 3 176 of age Number of subcontractors per 31 0 29 0 51 0 30-50 years 4 190 2 205 7 141 length of service of age Above 50 years 0 28 0 14 0 11 of age Employee turnover 2.9% 0.3% 2.5% 11.9% 3.6% 7.6% 60 PASSION FOR DENIM, PASSION FOR LIFE 2018 2019 CALIK DENIM SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2018 2019 CALIK DENIM SUSTAINABILITY REPORT PASSION FOR DENIM, PASSION FOR LIFE 61 APPENDIX 2017 2018 2019 OHS DATA ON 2017 2018 2019 SUBCONTRACTORS Female Male Female Male Female Male Number of accidents 2 8 7 Number of employees using 2 228 0 280 6 285 Number of cases of maternity/paternity 0 0 0 leave occupational disease Number of Absence (total 21 144 179 employees returning number of lost days) to work after expiry 2 228 0 280 6 285 of their maternity/ Absence due to 20 41 45 paternity leave accidents Total hours of Incident rate (IR) 5.39 23.38 11.57 22,130 27,837 38,958 employee training Hours of training per Occupational disease 0.00 0.00 0.00 11.2 13.4 16.2 rate (ODR) employee Total hours of Lost day rate (LDR) 53.76 117.82 73.53 subcontractor 103 68 366 training Absentee rate (AR) 0.22% 0.47% 0.29% Female Male Female Male Female Male Number of employees subject to 63 175 71 192 79 215 regular performance OHS review TRAININGS Total hours of OHS DATA ON 12,970 14,076 29,237 employee training EMPLOYEES Hours of training per 6.56 6.79 12.19 employee Number of accidents 52 52 49 Total hours of Number of cases of subcontractor 2,116 2,356 2,232 0 0 0 training occupational disease Absence (total 12,220 17,405 14,991 number of lost days) Absence due to 852 15,432 428 accidents Incident rate (IR) 2.06 1.58 1.39 Occupational disease 0.00 0.00 0.00 rate (ODR) Lost day rate (LDR) 33.71 468.52 12.11 Absentee rate (AR) 0.14% 2.48% 0.06% 62 PASSION FOR DENIM, PASSION FOR LIFE 2018 2019 CALIK DENIM SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2018 2019 CALIK DENIM SUSTAINABILITY REPORT PASSION FOR DENIM, PASSION FOR LIFE 63 APPENDIX GRI CONTENT GRI Standard Disclosure Page Number(s) and/or URL(s) Omissions INDEX GRI 102: General Disclosures 2016 Ethics and Integrity 102-16 25 102-17 25 Page Number(s) and/or Governance GRI Standard Disclosure Omissions URL(s) 102-18 18 GRI 101: Foundation 2016 102-19 18 GRI 102: General Disclosures 2016 Stakeholder Engagement Organizational Profile 102-40 20 102-1 6 102-41 60 102-2 7, 31, 32 102-42 19, 20 102-3 70 102-43 20 102-4 7 102-44 19, 20 ÇALIK DENİM TEKSTİL SANAYİ 102-5 GRI 102: General VE TİCARET A.Ş. Reporting Practice Disclosures 2016 102-6 7 102-45 7 102-7 7, 10, 11, 46, 60 102-46 6 GRI 102: General Disclosures 2016 102-8 46, 60 102-47 19 102-9 34, 35 102-48 No significant change observed. 102-10 7, 34, 35 102-49 19 102-11 23, 24 102-50 6 102-12 22, 56 102-51 1 January 31 December 2017 102-13 56 102-52 Biennially. Strategy 102-53 6 102-14 8, 9 102-54 6 102-15 23, 24 102-55 64-68 No external assurance sought for 102-56 For the Materiality Disclosures Service, GRI Services reviewed that the GRI content index is clearly presented and the the report. references for Disclosures 102-40 to 102-49 align with appropriate sections in the body of the report. 64 PASSION FOR DENIM, PASSION FOR LIFE 2018 2019 CALIK DENIM SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2018 2019 CALIK DENIM SUSTAINABILITY REPORT PASSION FOR DENIM, PASSION FOR LIFE 65 APPENDIX Page Number(s) and/or Page Number(s) and/or GRI Standard Disclosure Omissions GRI Standard Disclosure Omissions URL(s) URL(s) GRI 300: Environmental Standards Series GRI 300: Environmental Standards Series Energy Supplier Environmental Assessment 103-1 51, 52 103-1 34, 35 GRI 103: Management GRI 103: Management Approach 2016 103-2 51, 52 Approach 2016 103-2 34, 35 103-3 51, 52 103-3 34, 35 302-1 57 GRI 308: Supplier Environmental Assessment 308-2 34 GRI 302: Energy 2016 302-3 57 2016 302-4 52 GRI 400: Social Standards Series Water Employment 103-1 51, 53 GRI 103: Management 103-1 46, 47 Approach 2016 GRI 103: Management 103-2 51, 53 Approach 2016 103-2 46, 47 103-3 51, 53 103-3 46, 47 303-1 58 401-1 61 GRI 303: Water 2016 303-3 58 GRI 401: Employment 2016 401-3 62 Emissions Occupational Health and Safety 103-1 51, 53 GRI 103: Management 103-1 49 Approach 2016 103-2 51, 53 GRI 103: Management 103-2 49 Approach 2016 103-3 51, 53 103-3 49 305-5 52 403-1 49 GRI 305: Emissions 2016 GRI 403: Occupational 305-7 59 Health and Safety 2016 403-2 62, 63 Effluents and Waste Training and Education 103-1 53, 55 GRI 103: Management 103-1 47, 48 Approach 2016 103-2 53, 55 GRI 103: Management 103-2 47, 48 Approach 2016 103-3 53, 55 103-3 47, 48 306-1 58 404-1 47 GRI 306: Effluents and 306-2 57, 58 GRI 404: Training and Waste 2016 404-2 47, 48 Education 2016 306-4 58 404-3 48, 62 66 PASSION FOR DENIM, PASSION FOR LIFE 2018 2019 CALIK DENIM SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2018 2019 CALIK DENIM SUSTAINABILITY REPORT PASSION FOR DENIM, PASSION FOR LIFE 67 APPENDIX GRI Standard Disclosure Page Number(s) and/or URL(s) Omissions UNGC REFERENCES Material Topics That Are Not Covered by the GRI Standards R&D and Innovation 103-1 28-32 103-2 28-32 103-3 28-32 GRI 103: Management Area Principles Relevant Report Section Approach 2016 Brand Management and Reputation Principle 1: Businesses should support and respect the Passion for Innovative Products 103-1 23, 43, 44 protection of internationally proclaimed human rights; and (Sustainable Raw Material Procurement) 103-2 23, 43, 44 Human Rights Passion for Stakeholders and 103-3 23, 43, 44 Principle 2: make sure that they are not complicit in human Industry rights abuses. (Talent Management) Principle 3: Businesses should uphold the freedom of association and the effective recognition of the right to collective bargaining; Passion for Innovative Products (Sustainable Raw Material Principle 4: the elimination of all forms of forced and Procurement) Labour compulsory labour; Passion for Stakeholders and Principle 5: the effective abolition of child labour; and Industry (Talent Management) Principle 6: the elimination of discrimination in respect of employment and occupation. Principle 7: Businesses should support a precautionary approach to environmental challenges; Passion for Innovative Products Principle 8: undertake initiatives to promote greater (R&D and Innovation) Environment environmental responsibility; and Passion for Planet Principle 9: encourage the development and diffusion of environmentally friendly technologies. Corporate Governance Principle 10: Businesses should work against corruption in Anti-Corruption all its forms, including extortion and bribery. Ethical Business 68 PASSION FOR DENIM, PASSION FOR LIFE 2018 2019 CALIK DENIM SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2018 2019 CALIK DENIM SUSTAINABILITY REPORT PASSION FOR DENIM, PASSION FOR LIFE 69 APPENDIX CONTACT HEAD OFFICE Keresteciler Sitesi, Fatih Cad. Ladin Sok. No:17 34169 Merter, İstanbul Phone: +90 (212) 459 26 26 pbx Fax: +90 (212) 677 41 17 FACTORY 1. Organize Sanayi Bolgesi 2. Cadde No:6 44900 Yeşilyurt, Malatya / TURKEY Phone: +90 (422) 377 61 00 Fax: +90 (422) 237 54 17 http://calikdenim.com https://www.linkedin.com/company/calik-denim https://www.instagram.com/calikdenim/ https://twitter.com/calikdenimtr REPORTING CONSULTANT https://www.facebook.com/CALIKDENIM S360 www.s360.com.tr/ https://www.youtube.com/user/CalikDenimTurkey CONCEPT AND DESIGN FM DATA İLETİŞİM www.data-iletisim.com 70 PASSION FOR DENIM, PASSION FOR LIFE 2018 2019 CALIK DENIM SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2018 2019 CALIK DENIM SUSTAINABILITY REPORT PASSION FOR DENIM, PASSION FOR LIFE 71 APPENDIX www.calikdenim.com 72 PASSION FOR DENIM, PASSION FOR LIFE 2018 2019 CALIK DENIM SUSTAINABILITY REPORT
