GLOBAL COMPACT COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS (COP) SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2019 CEO statement NNE is an international company Global Compact regarding human In 2019 we continued our work on lowespecialized in pharma engineering. rights, labor standards, environment ring our environmental footprint, developWe build our company on the belief and anti-corruption, and our conment of our employees, eliminating work that to be a sustainable business we tinued support to the fulfilment of injuries and incidents, prevention of cormust balance three bottom lines – the Sustainable Development Goals ruption as well as gender equality in NNE. financial, social and environmental, (SDGs). We work actively with the i.e. the Triple Bottom Line (TBL) busiSDG’s both internal in the company ness principle. These dimensions are and external with our clients, as our in line with our continued commitdesigns provide a huge impact for ment to the 10 principles of the UN our customers’ sustainability. Jesper Kløve Chief Executive Officer and President June 2020 2 3 PEOPLE DEVELOPMENT NNE at a glance NNE is an international company specialized in pharma The strategic focus towards 2021 is to maintain the position At NNE, our greatest assets are our people and their The gender diversity at Board level according to Section engineering. We help pharmaceutical companies bring as the leading pharma engineering company in Denmark minds. Therefore, we continue to strengthen our core §99B of the Danish financial statements act is achieved. NNE products to market by providing flexible, compliant and by delivering solutions that are innovative, sustainable and competencies and develop our people. has obtained equal representation on its Board of Directors future-proof solutions. In 2019 we had close to 1,000 competitive on cost. in accordance with the guidance from the Danish Business professionals delivering global knowledge and best practices, To strengthen our core competencies and build best-in-class Authority. all dedicated to supporting our customers globally and on Our values are the cultural foundation for NNE. They reflect pharma engineers, our global competency development who we are, how we do things and provide a means to programme Pharma Engineering Advanced Know-how Across all NNE management teams, we aim for a distribution local sites. reach our goals. (PEAK) has high priority. PEAK’s focus areas are defined equivalent to NNE’s overall gender distribution, while taking At NNE, we focus solely on the GMP-regulated pharma based on a thorough analysis of customer needs, market local cultures and circumstances into account. industry. Our mission is to help pharmaceutical companies Trust and respect for each other are at our core, and we demands and industry trends. In 2019, continued our believe that we perform at our best when we embrace our The gender split for management positions was 31% female bring products to market by delivering agile and flexible focus on core technology competencies, offering courses and 69% male in 2019, which is line with the overall gender operations, seamless GMP compliance and future-proof diversity and play on our different strengths. within e.g. biotechnology, GMP compliance, consultative split across all employees. NNE’s ambition is to have a balanced solutions, while ensuring reliable project execution. engineering and automation and IT. The PEAK program gender split and the Company strives to include female NNE takes responsibility for the impact our business has on provided over forty different course offerings in 2019 candidates in the recruitment process for all positions and as Our expertise is tailored specifically towards the highly GMPpeople, communities and the environment and we strive regulated industry. We call this focused pharma engineering. to make a positive contribution to society and human wellsuccessors for management positions wherever possible. being. Gender diversity In 2019 the business realized a satisfactory result with a turnover of DKK 983 million, an operating profit of DKK 67 For more information on NNE please refer to: nne.com In 2019, the Board consisted of six members, of which million and an operating profit margin of 6,9%. two were females, one of them being employeeselected. 4 5 OPERATIONALIZING THE GOALS Managing sustainability Figure 1 Figure 3 NNE has been a member of the UN Operationalizing the goals NNE has a zero tolerance policy Integration of subtainability in Sustainable Global Compact since 2008, and towards corruption. Parts of our antiour business Development Goals therefore committed to adhere to the The SDGs and the UN guiding princorruption measures are our manda10 principles regarding human rights, ciples on business and human rights tory business ethics e-learning prolabor standards, environment and set out goals and guidelines for how gramme which all employees must anti-corruption, as well as supporting businesses can tackle global sustainpass – as well as our whistle-blower OUR POLICIES the fulfilment of the 17 sustainable ability challenges. At NNE, we strive system. • Triple bottom line policy (environmental, social and development goals (SDGs)1. to balance these challenges by advisSTR financial policy) AT ing our customers with sustainable Our direct environmental EG • Quality policy IC • Working environment policy Our TBL approach is aligned with the design solutions that improve producfootprint and working • People and communication policy 10 principles and SDGs. In 2019 NNE tivity, fulfil GMP requirements, and environment continued the work with concrete respect human rights. goals within diversity, working enviNNE’s indirect carbon and water TA MANAGEMENT PROCEDURES CT SYSTEMS • Business ethics ronment, education, profit, environOur aim is to enable our clients to exfootprint associated with our advice ICA • ISO 9001 • Responsilbe sourcing L • ISO 14001 • Whisteblower option ment and cel through our design, which means to customers are the most important • OHSAS 18001 (see figure 2). that the SDG’s most relevant for NNE environmental impact. are to ensure Decent work and ecoWe integrate sustainability into our nomic growth (no. 8), and ResponsiIn 2019, NNE has calculated its direct GOVERNANCE BEST PRACTICE PEOPLE DEVELOPMENT business on strategic, tactical and ble consumption and production (no. environmental footprint from power • Our Model Executive Committee • Community of Interest (COI) Health, Safety and • Leading Performance Employee Survey operational levels. 12), and indirectly promoting Healthy consumption at our offices and transOP • • ER • Working Environmental Environment and COIs for • PEAK (internal course AT Council processes and products program) life and well-being (no. 3) through portation in company cars. In 2019 ION • Our Wiki AL Through our global policies, systems state-of-the art design of facilities. our carbon footprint from transportaand goals, we ensure that our comtion decreased by 72% compared Figure 1. Integration of sustainability in our business pany develops sustainably. The soluIn the environmental area, NNE Dento 2018. The total carbon footprint tions we provide for our customers mark has installed solar panels on the reached 351ton CO2 which, in commust support the realisation of their roof of our headquarters in Virum to parison, is the same as about 30 social and environmental commitsupport a reduction in our electrical average European households. The ments, goals, challenges and basic power sourcing. In 2019, the harvest decreased emission from company compliance aspects, such as the solar energy covered 23 % of our cars is mainly due to the divestment SDGs, circular economy, employee total energy consumption at our in subsidiary companies in Belgium, Figure 2 safety and well-being and responsible headquarters. France, Germany and Switzerland. NNE’s triple bottom line NNE supports environment-friendly solutions when sourcing supplies and vendors sourcing. Sourcing NNE supports the local communiIn 2019, NNE registered 4 lost time NNE supports CO2 reduction by commuting together, Our policies, systems and the way we ties in the areas where we are presincidents (LTI) and 7 no LTI, which is Resource skype meetings when possible to limit transportation, efficiency sustainable fuelled company cars and low energy work with competences, sharing of ent. Many of NNE’s employees have on level with the number of incidents office buildings best practices through Communities voiced their expectations for the in 2018, where we had 2 LTI and 9 NNE supports education of engineers in of Interests (COI) as well as people company to partner up with relevant no LTI, respectively. terms of close corporation with universities, “PhD” positions and internal education NNE supports development of market leading and process development are essenNGOs to contribute to society. In Competencies HSE competencies for best HSE practices to be tially to meet the challenges. 2019 we partnered up with SOS ChilNNE’s executive management reviews Education applied in proposed solutions for our customers Environmental dren’s villages to support children in all lost time incidents, and Line of NNE supports the physical and mental environment for Working the area of our Indian site. It makes Business continuously monitors and our employees to have a healthy and a less stressful life environment sense to support basic needs for evaluates incidents to learn from and children and especially education of mitigate recurrence. NNE supports equal opportunities and acknowledge children in areas where NNE is pres­ diversity in terms of age, gender and nationality for our employees to have the same conditions for Diversity ent as these children are tomorrow’s colleague. development and to set the strongest team Social Financial NNE is an active part of supporting communities and social work related to children in order Philanthropy to build a foundation for education 1 Link to Sustainable Development Goals Operating NNE is delivering sustainable profit and competitive financial results margin of 8% in operating profit margin 6 EXCEED CUSTOMER EXPECTATIONS Corporate governance and risk management NNE is managed according to four principles called ‘Our Values’. guidance and reporting facilities for our employees and busiAdditional guidance and commitments include our business ness partners. NNE employees are obliged and committed to ethics, quality management system and TBL commitment to comply with the business ethics principles in their day-to-day continuously improve our financial, environmental and social business, and we also expect sub-consultants, suppliers, subperformance. suppliers and other business partners and representatives to comply with these principles. NNE complies with the same principles of corporate governance as our parent company, Novo Nordisk A/S. Because NNE A/S is NNE’s global compliance program includes an e-learning 100 percent owned by Novo Nordisk A/S, we are included in the program and certification known as ‘Doing business the right consolidated financial statements of Novo Nordisk A/S. way’. This program is mandatory for all employees and internal consultants to complete once a year. NNE’s Board of Directors is elected yearly at the annual general meeting. The six members consist of two representatives from Other activities to support compliance include audits and genthe parent company, two external members and two employees eral awareness training. elected by NNE employees for a term of four years. For major projects, a governance structure and risk assessment We assess short-term risks monthly, particularly project and busiare established during the proposal process and maintained ness risks. Long-term, we protect the reputation of our company throughout project delivery. Project steering committees and to maintain and grow our business. To reduce the risk of NNE management representatives ensure continuous focus on employees violating business ethics, laws and regulations, we project performance and risk mitigation. have established a compliance program to ensure proper training, We are We passionate about our pharma innovate and create efficient engineering expertise solutions Exceed customer expectations We take We initiative team up and get and leverage our things done global knowledge CONTACT Lis Thodberg, Director, Health, Safety & Environment ljpt@nne.com T: +45 3075 0750
