BEIJING GROUPHORSE TRANSLATIONS CO., LTD Communication on Progress 2019 BEIJING GROUPHORSE TRANSLATIONS CO., LTD. Facilitate Global Communication for Better International Relations http://www.grouphorse.com/en/ Room 707-709, Tower A, 28 East Andingmen Street, Yonghe Plaza, Beijing, China 1 BEIJING GROUPHORSE TRANSLATIONS CO., LTD TABLE OF CONTENTS TABLE OF CONTENTS............................................................................................... 2 STATEMENT OF CONTINUED SUPPORT ............................................................... 3 COPORATE PROFILE ................................................................................................. 4 TEN PRINCIPLES OF UN GLOBAL COMPACT .................................................... 19 Human Rights .............................................................................................. 19 Labor ............................................................................................................ 22 Environment................................................................................................. 28 Anti-Corruption............................................................................................ 30 2 BEIJING GROUPHORSE TRANSLATIONS CO., LTD STATEMENT OF CONTINUED SUPPORT Period covered by our Communication on Progress (COP) From April 10, 2019 to April 9, 2020 April 2020 Beijing Grouphorse Translations Co., Ltd. is proud to have been a participant of the United Nations Global Compact since 2017, and is committed to upholding the Ten Principles of the United Nations Global Compact. As we seek to facilitate global communication for better international relations, we have established a sound system to internalize these principles and expand the scope of human rights, labor rights, environmental protection and anti-corruption practices within our sphere of influence. I am glad to confirm that Grouphorse reaffirms its support of the Ten Principles. This is our third annual Communication on Progress that presents our actions to integrate the Global Compact and its principles into our strategy, culture and daily operations. We will make greater efforts to increase awareness about corporate social responsibility. Yours sincerely, TANG Xing President/Chairman Beijing Grouphorse Translations Co., Ltd. 3 BEIJING GROUPHORSE TRANSLATIONS CO., LTD CORPORATE PROFILE Headquartered in Beijing, Grouphorse Translations (www.grouphorse.com) has branches in major cities including Shanghai, Guangzhou, Shenzhen, Nanjing, Chengdu, Changsha, Hangzhou, and Wuhan, and is a United Nations vendor for language services registered at the highest level (ID: 496547) and a participant of the United Nations Global Compact (ID: 109301). As one of China’s most prestigious international language service providers, Grouphorse has been the official language service provider for APEC summits, the Boao Forum for Asia, China International Import Expo, and the Bloomberg New Economy Forum. It is the translation partner of the 2018 China Education Symposium at Harvard and the official sponsor for the XIX FIT World Congress as well as one of China’s first service providers to offer internships and placement for Master of Translation and Interpreting (MTI) candidates. Grouphorse is also an organizational council member of the Translators Association of China (TAC), a corporate member of the American Translators Association (ATA), and co-organizer of the Eighth National Conference and International Forum on Interpreting. Mr. Guo Jiading, former Director-General of the Department of Translation and Interpretation and the Advanced Professional Titles Appraisal Committee at the Ministry of Foreign Affairs (MFA) of China, served as the first director of translation and 4 BEIJING GROUPHORSE TRANSLATIONS CO., LTD interpretation, overseeing language services and training programs at Grouphorse. Mr. Guo reviewed and finalized the English bid documents for the Beijing 2008 Summer Olympics, the World Expo 2010 Shanghai China, the 2010 Asian Games in Guangzhou, and the 2011 Summer Universiade in Shenzhen. Ms. Xu Yanan is the current chief advisor for translation and interpretation at Grouphorse, and served as Chief of the Chinese Translation Service of the Documentation Division of the Department for General Assembly and Conference Management (DGACM) at the UN and Director-General of the Department of Translation and Interpretation at the MFA. At Grouphorse, we are proud of our precise management, transparent work flow modeled on international standards, customized services and strategically-distributed branches. The proven quality of our language service solutions makes Grouphorse stand out from other players in the sector. We are the preferred language service partner for Chinese enterprises and organizations with overseas business, foreign-invested companies, embassies, consulates, and missions of international organizations in China. Grouphorse has received letters of appreciation from political leaders including former British Prime Minister Gordon Brown, former French Prime Minister Jean Pierre Raffarin, former Australian Prime Minister John Howard, and former British Chancellor of the Exchequer George Osborne. Grouphorse Chairman Mr. Tang Xing is a council member of the Translators Association of China (TAC), a member of the 5 BEIJING GROUPHORSE TRANSLATIONS CO., LTD Institute of Translation and Interpreting and the Chartered Institute of Linguists, and a visiting scholar at Columbia University. He was invited to deliver a well-received English keynote speech titled “Bridging Language Gaps” at the UN headquarters in May 2017. As a key step towards corporate management improvement, Grouphorse has brought on Mr. Xu Jian, a renowned lawyer and Dean of the RUC Law School, as its legal advisor. Before joining Grouphorse, Mr. Xu was a long-time legal advisor to Hong Kong tycoon Sir. Ka-shing Li, one of the world’s bestknown business leaders. Grouphorse and the UN On April 25 and 26, 2019, Grouphorse provided simultaneous interpreting service for the Learning Conference on Road Safety and Digital Innovation, co-hosted by the United Nations Institute for Training and Research (UNITAR) and its International Training Centre for Authorities and Leaders in Shanghai (CIFAL Shanghai) in collaboration with 6 BEIJING GROUPHORSE TRANSLATIONS CO., LTD the Shanghai Academy of Social Sciences (SASS), Tongji University and AB InBev. Learning Conference on Road Safety and Digital Innovation. On May 18, 2019, during the intermission of Grouphorse Global Interpreting Summit 2019, Grouphorse signed with UNITARCIFAL Shanghai a cooperation agreement, under which both sides will work on launching world-class international programs to help develop language learners’ skills, including the United Nations Conference Interpretation Certificate Program and the China Interpreting Contest. 7 BEIJING GROUPHORSE TRANSLATIONS CO., LTD Grouphorse Chairman/President Tang Xing (right) and CIFAL Shanghai Directory Wang Genxiang sign the agreement. From May 26 to June 1, members of a Grouphorse interpreting camp were offered on-site interpreting training and practice opportunities at the 75th session of the Ecnomic and Social Commission for Asia and the Pacific (ESCAP) . Members of the interpreting camp at ESCAP. 8 BEIJING GROUPHORSE TRANSLATIONS CO., LTD Zhou Jingqi (Klink Zhou), general manager of Grouphorse Global Center for Translation and Interpreting and assistant to the president, has been recognized as a 2019 Global Compact Network China SDG Pioneer. He received the award at the 2019 China Business Summit on Achieving SDGs on December 13 in Beijing, which was held by Global Compact Network China, under the guidance of China Enterprise Confederation and the UN Global Compact. Zhou Jingqi (second from left) receives the award at the summit. On December 29, the national final of 2019 China Interpreting Contest co-hosted by Grouphorse and UNITAR-CIFAL Shanghai was held at Beijing Foreign Studies University. This contest highlights the important role of women in the language profession and beyond by covering a large pool of female contestants and setting “gender equality” as the theme of the contest final. 9 BEIJING GROUPHORSE TRANSLATIONS CO., LTD Judges and guests at the contest. Translation and Interpretation Services Grouphorse is certified to the ISO 9001: 2015 standard and owns ten branches and subsidiaries offering services including translation, interpreting, translation and interpreting training, conference services, multilingual headhunting, and R&D for computer-aided translation tools. Grouphorse works with a pool of over 1,000 simultaneous interpreters who have served domestic and foreign political leaders and completed conference interpreting assignments totaling over 1,000 hours. Also included are over 6,000 senior translators who serve businesses, public institutions Business Performance 10 BEIJING GROUPHORSE TRANSLATIONS CO., LTD The Global Center for Translation and Interpreting (GCTI), Grouphorse’s high-end language service platform, offers clients around the globe the best language services provided by over 1,000 linguists at home and abroad with expertise in multiple fields. This is part of its contribution to the Belt and Road Initiative and fulfilment of Grouphorse’s commitment to facilitating global communication for better international relations. Learning Conference on Road Safety and Digital Innovation 11 BEIJING GROUPHORSE TRANSLATIONS CO., LTD Grouphorse provides simultaneous interpreting services for the World Robot Conference. Boao Forum for Annual Conference 2019 World Forum on Rule of Law in Internet l Training Programs and Cooperation with Universities As Grouphorse’s flagship brand, Cema Training School of Translation and Interpreting (www.cemachina.com) is widely recognized as the champion in the industry in terms of teaching 12 BEIJING GROUPHORSE TRANSLATIONS CO., LTD quality, number of trainees enrolled, range of training levels and geographical coverage. With its unique teaching method combining comprehensive training with interactive learning, Cema is dedicated to cultivating first-class translators and interpreters with global vision. It has been commended by senior Chinese officials such as Mr. Liu Huaqiu, former Division Director of the Office of Foreign Affairs Group of the Central Committee of Communist Party of China. Cema customizes translation training programs for companies directly under the central government, foreign-invested companies, and embassies and consulates, including but not limit to: ² China National Offshore Oil Corporation ² State Nuclear Power Technology Corporation ² Commercial Aircraft Corporation of China ² China Southern Airlines ² Novo Nordisk ² PricewaterhouseCoopers (PwC) ² Porsche ² Mitsubishi ² Honda ² Embassies and consulates of countries such as Australia and Norway For years, Grouphorse has supported the disciplinary development of the Master of Translation and Interpreting (MTI) education program by assessing the MTI candidates of China’s high-level “Project 211” universities. It is the MTI 13 BEIJING GROUPHORSE TRANSLATIONS CO., LTD practice base and incubator for top universities, including but not limited to: ² Beijing Foreign Studies University (BFSU) ² Zhejiang University ² Shanghai Jiao Tong University ² Fudan University ² Sun Yat-sen University ² Tongji University ² Southeast University ² Shanghai International Studies University ² East China Normal University ² Xi’an International Studies University ² Huazhong University of Science and Technology ² Beijing Language and Culture University Grouphorse becomes a practice base for candidates of the MTI program offered by Fudan University. 14 BEIJING GROUPHORSE TRANSLATIONS CO., LTD Grouphorse serves as a practice base for candidates of the MTI program offered by Huazhong University of Science and Technology. Through corporate as well as personal network efforts on the part of senior leadership, Grouphorse has developed both formal and informal relations with top-notch universities abroad including Columbia University, Middlebury Institute of International Studies, University of Westminster and University of Essex. It is the only institution in China that runs initial testing admission procedures and screening for the University of Westminster’s MTI program. The current global spread of the COVID-19 virus means that many organizations, especially education institutions around the world are looking into how to continue their business remotely. In response, Cema has launched a wide range of online programs for translation and interpreting learners, including an internship program to help university students who have been 15 BEIJING GROUPHORSE TRANSLATIONS CO., LTD staying at home because of the outbreak hone their translation and interpreting skills. ² International Exchanges Over the years, Grouphorse has actively promoted international exchanges. Our delegations have visited many organizations and enterprises in Europe and the US, including UN agencies, the China-Britain Business Council, the University of Oxford, the University of Cambridge, the Googleplex and headquarters of enterprises including Intel, Goldman Sachs, Morgan Stanley, etc. As a language service provider, Grouphorse always seeks to promote Sino-foreign exchanges, cultivate language professionals, and contribute to China’s role in global governance and its voice in the international community. With social responsibility at heart, we at Grouphorse have managed to achieve sustained, stable, fast and coordinated growth over the past decade. Last year, a student delegation from the University of Westminster visited Grouphorse’s Shanghai branch on April 4, to gain a deeper understanding of Grouphorse, while also getting to know what it is like to work and learn as an interpreter or a translator in a different culture. 16 BEIJING GROUPHORSE TRANSLATIONS CO., LTD The delegation at Grouphorse. On 20 April, Grouphorse and the Chartered Institute of Linguists signed a cooperation agreement in Beijing. Several of Grouphorse’s branches across China have become authorized test centers for the Advanced Diploma in Translation (DipTrans). Dom Hebblethwaite, CIOL’s Head of Business Development, signs the agreement with Grouphorse Vice President Mr. Wen Yi. 17 BEIJING GROUPHORSE TRANSLATIONS CO., LTD On May 18, Grouphorse Global Interpreting Summit was held in Shanghai. Themed “Interpreters’ Promising Future in the New Era”, the summit was a feast for the mind featuring four keynote speeches and two panel discussions. Guests at the Global Interpreting Summit. From May 26 to June 1, members of a Grouphorse interpreting camp were offered on-site interpreting training and practice opportunities at the 75th ESCAP session. 18 BEIJING GROUPHORSE TRANSLATIONS CO., LTD Members of the interpreting camp. TEN PRINCIPLES OF UN GLOBAL COMPACT Human Rights Policy Respecting human rights is an ongoing process that requires continuous effort and builds on our corporate values. At Grouphorse, we see to it that all personnel and our partners respect the Universal Declaration of Human Rights. We have been improving the Grouphorse Human Rights Protection Rules incorporating provisions of the Labor Law of the People’s Republic of China and the Social Insurance Law of the People’s Republic of China according to the realities of our business operations and needs of stakeholders. Implementation 19 BEIJING GROUPHORSE TRANSLATIONS CO., LTD We have been strictly observing the Universal Declaration of Human Rights and other human rights protection rules, and regularly review our policies for alignment with stakeholder feedback and internationally-recognized best practices and explore new approaches to promoting employees’ human rights. ² Employees We spare no efforts to create a caring workplace where leaders genuinely care about employees and employees have friends at work. In the past year, leaders at Grouphorse continued to send wishes and gifts personally to employees on their birthdays. We have created a system encouraging employees to share their thoughts on the development of the company, to help enhance their sense of belonging and drive our business. We started to hold weekly meetings where employees feel free to talk about their work or life problems, and the management and HR Department would try to help them solve these problems in a timely manner, so that they would feel more valued and become more engaged. The Human Rights Education Program launched in 2018 at Grouphorse continued to help employees better understand the Universal Declaration of Human Rights and other human rights protection rules, which has also pushed the management to explore new practices. 20 BEIJING GROUPHORSE TRANSLATIONS CO., LTD ² Clients To show our repect for clients’ rights, our Customer Service Department has improved its services by conducting monthly customer satisfaction surveys and running customer meetings/events. As a result, our client satisfaction reached an all-time high in the past year. ² Supervision on Management Strong governance is essential to successfully embed respect for human rights throughout our business, which is why we have reinforced the Human Rights Risk Management Task Force in each department. It has been conducting risk checks and risk control training programs regularly, as well as monitoring possible violations, especially those caused by decision makers of the department. ² Supplier We have been conducting due diligence to identify, address, and track potential and actual human rights impacts in our value chain, and only work with suppliers with good standing and lays out human rights protection provisions in the procurement contracts so that they would be legally bound to protect human rights. 21 BEIJING GROUPHORSE TRANSLATIONS CO., LTD Grouphorse will continue to conform with the UNGC human rights principles, launch more awareness campaigns within the company as well as in the industry. Outcomes We have always been the upholder of human rights and exercise zero tolerance on human rights infringement. The employees have never experienced discrimination on the grounds of their race, age, gender, marital status, religion, ethnicity or physical disability in the company. The past year saw no investigation, lawsuit, punishment or other incidents concerning human rights infringement at Grouphorse. Labor Policy At Grouphorse, we have incorporated key requirements of relevant conventions of the International Labour Organization into our internal management and quality control system and developed practical rules to protect the rights and interests of the personnel. We value each of our employees. Last year, we continued to carry out the Grouphorse Regulations on Promotion and Incentive, Grouphorse Flexible Working Arrangements, Grouphorse Workplace Gender Policy, and a wide range of 22 BEIJING GROUPHORSE TRANSLATIONS CO., LTD professional development programs to promote employee job satisfaction. In addition, we have not employed and will not employ children or minors. Implementation ² Desirable Employment Benefits The contract we sign with our employees lays out terms that protect their interests in terms of salary, working hours, insurance and social welfare benefits, and other employee treatment-related issues. We have been implementing the Grouphorse Regulations on Overtime Working to curb overtime working so that our employees would not be physically and emotionally drained. With the Grouphorse Flexible Working Arrangements, our employees are offered flexible hours so they can fit the work around other commitments. They can create their own work schedule for a given amount of time, or they might still work the same days but get to decide when they start, take breaks and stop. In addition to flex hours, we offer the option of telecommuting, allowing employees to avoid the stress of 23 BEIJING GROUPHORSE TRANSLATIONS CO., LTD traffic, picking up their kids on time or missing appointments because they work so far from home. The Grouphorse Work-From-Home Policies have been introduced this Februrary to protect its employees from COVID19 and help prevent its spread. In addition, Grouphorse has offered free masks, hand sanitizers, relevant supplies and online courses about relavant protection measures to all of our employees who have been working from home after the Spring Festival holiday. To support equity and equality between women and men, last year, we have: l introduced more seminars, lectures, or workshops related to gender equality as a way to formally address gender equality issues; l increased the number of women in leadership role by 20%; l prioritized work-life balance (with a focus on female employees). We do not force our employees to perform any task that is hazardous or detrimental to their health or well-being. 24 BEIJING GROUPHORSE TRANSLATIONS CO., LTD ² Team-building Events To celebrate the 10th anniversary of the company, we arranged a free cruise trip from June 7 to June 11 for employees with all of our branches. Group photo of our employees 25 BEIJING GROUPHORSE TRANSLATIONS CO., LTD In the past year, we also held major events such as the Grouphorse Global Interpreting Summit, China Interpreting Contest, and some activities such as essay and knowledge contests, photography and calligraphy exhibitions, to boost employee morale as well as our brand image. Grouphorse Global Interpreting Summit 2019 Grouphorse President Tang Xing speaks at the 2019 China Interpreting Contest. 26 BEIJING GROUPHORSE TRANSLATIONS CO., LTD ² Discrimination Reporting System We work against all forms of discrimination involving internal or external stakeholders, which may be based on factors such as race or gender, age, nationality, religion, sexual orientation, etc. To this end, we have established a weband SMS-based discrimination reporting system to allow people to report cases of discrimination in employment and other relevant areas. And employees can take legal actions and have authorities concerned initiate the investigation. ² Professional Development Program Grouphorse have launched a wider range of professional development programs in the past year. In addition to running induction programs for new employees, we have invited more industry experts at home and abroad to give translation and interpreting lectures regularly, and sent our employees to attend work-related international meetings, seminars, and lectures that broaden their horizon. A mentorship program was also introduced at Grouphorse last year, allowing lower-level employees to connect with senior employees on a personal and professional level. It links employees who have similar job responsibilities and helps them discover the new opportunities available to them within the company. 27 BEIJING GROUPHORSE TRANSLATIONS CO., LTD ² Free will-based Employment We do not impose any restriction on employees’ freedom or force them to stay employed by us through menace of any penalty including sanctions, threats, violence, loss of rights of privileges, etc. We make fair and respectful employee separation arrangements. Outcomes The past year saw no complaint, petition or any incident involving acts of discrimination, forced labor or other violations of the labor principles at Grouphorse. All of our efforts have paid off—our survey showed that the employees have developed their professional skills, felt empowered at work and become more commited to the company. Environment Policy At Grouphorse, we always take reaching environmental excellence as one of our main objectives, and seek to make greater efforts to address key sustainability issues. Last year, we have introduced the Grouphorse Garbage Sorting Rules while promoting the Grouphorse Environmental Protection Initiative through a variety of activities. 28 BEIJING GROUPHORSE TRANSLATIONS CO., LTD Implementation In the past year, more human and financial resources were made available to support environmental protection initiatives at Grouphorse. ² Garbage Sorting Program Last July, the garbage sorting rules were introduced in Shanghai. Accordingly, we have developed our own rules and implemented a garbage classification system. To support the implementation, we held fun events to familiarize employees with definitions of four kinds of waste: recyclable waste, hazardous waste, household food waste and residual waste. And those departments doing great in garbage sorting were offered incentives. ² Sustainable Development Knowledge Workshop Last year, we started to run a sustainable development knowledge workshop to improve the management’s understanding of relevant policies and practices, which led to them making greener decisions and environmental excellence. ² Performance Evaluation System Our system of evaluating how relevant environmental protection and sustainability policies are carried out continued to see exciting progress in the past year. All of our employees met KPIs regarding environmental protection and sustainability set 29 BEIJING GROUPHORSE TRANSLATIONS CO., LTD by heads of departments, and those high-achievers were recognized at our monthly meetings. Outcomes In the past year, Grouphorse was not involved in any environmental pollution incidents. We will continue to strictly abide by environmental protection principles, proactively echo relevant initiatives launched by the UN and the Chinese government, and further contribute to the sustainable development of the world. Anti-Corruption Policy Ethics and integrity are fundamental and not negotiable at Grouphorse, which is why we always comply with anticorruption laws and policies, and have been running an honest business and allowing for no corruption at any level. Since joining the UNGC, we have been strictly abiding by the United Nations Convention against Corruption and other relevant international regulations, and our zero-tolerance approach towards bribery and corruption applies to all of our operations, regardless of local business practices. 30 BEIJING GROUPHORSE TRANSLATIONS CO., LTD We have formulated the Grouphorse Anti-Corruption Regulations and Grouphorse Staff Manual, including the No Gift Policy, which are constantly updated to reflect the latest corporate developments as well as relevant laws and regulations. We proactively promote the zero-tolerance approach to corruption, extortion and bribery and assist our staff in handling extortion and bribery issues. Implementation ² Training Sessions on Business Integrity We have been holding training sessions on anti-corruption and business integrity to ensure that each member of the company has a clear understanding of relevant corporate, national and international policies and initiatives. An employee integrity test designed to measure honesty, dependability and work ethic was introduced last year at Grouphorse, where employees were asked to rate statements related to business integrity. ² No Gift Policy In the past year, we continued to implement our No Gift Policy stipulating that any employee, at any time, on or off the work 31 BEIJING GROUPHORSE TRANSLATIONS CO., LTD premises shall not solicit or accept, directly or indirectly, gifts that are offered by vendors, suppliers, customers, government officials, potential employees, potential vendors, and suppliers, or any other individual or organization, no matter the value. ² Anti-corruption Procurement During procurement, we always go above and beyond to perform due diligence investigations to confirm that parties with whom we do business are legitimate and trustworthy enterprises that will comply with the relevant anti-corruption policies, laws and regulations. We strive to ensure that our suppliers and their personnel do not engage in bribery and/or corruption while serving us in any region of the world in which we operate. ² Multiple Reporting Channels In order to facilitate the reporting of corrupt behavior, we offer a range of online and offline reporting channels, including website, e-mail, Weibo, WeChat, and mobile application. And anonymous reporting has been allowed and protected according to relevant corporate polices and national law. Outcomes 32 BEIJING GROUPHORSE TRANSLATIONS CO., LTD In the past year, there was no investigation, lawsuit, ruling, fine, and other incidents related to corruption in all its forms at Grouphorse. We will continue to comply with relevant laws and regulations and make greater anti-corruption efforts. As a UNGC participant, Grouphorse will step up its efforts to implement the ten principles concerning human rights, labor, environment and anti-corruption and work towards greater social responsibility. We will actively participate in various UNGC campaigns across the world as we continue to run a modern and honest business, and strive to become a role model and get more businesses involved in giving back to society. Should you have any questions, please feel free to contact us. Contact: Jingqi ZHOU E-mail: klinkzhou@grouphorse.com Phone: +86-18502185884 Homepage: www.grouphorse.com/en 33
