Communication on Progress (CoP) 2020 Declaration of continuous support Schwalbach/Germany, November 2020 Dear reader, I am glad to confirm that the Nanopool GmbH reaffirms their support of the ten principles of the Global Compact of the United Nations regarding human rights, labour, environment, and anti-corruption. In this annual progress report, we describe our measures for continuous improvement of integrating the Global Compact and its principles in our business strategy, corporate culture and our daily work. We oblige to also make this information available to our stakeholders via our primary communication channels. Best regards Sascha Schwindt Managing Director nanopool® GmbH | Zum Felsacker 76 | D-66773 Schwalbach, Germany |  +49 (0) 6831 8902712 | www.nanopool.eu | info@nanopool.eu Communication on Progress (CoP) Responsibility for man and nature A sustainable handling of the the environment and its ressources is not only an essential part of our company strategy but also the central subject of our research and development. Nanopool develops intelligent products for surface protection which contribute in reducing water consumption, CO2 emissions, plastic waste and the use of environmentally harmful cleaning chemicals. At the same time, our products increase the hygiene standard and thus help to interrupt infection chains of harmful microorganisms. The attempt of achieving those aims is also implemented in our daily business, as sustainability at Nanopool is based on our many years of experience and competence. It is part of all processes and products and affects the acting of all our employees every day. In the beginning of all our product developments, there is always the question about the current need of man and nature. Therefore, in 2020 two highly charged topics have been in our focus: • The improvement of hygiene, both in nursing and caring environments as well as in corporate environments and the personal daily life of persons. Especially the inactivation of the SARS-CoV-2 pathogen on surfaces in order to interrupt infection chains by smear infection has been in our focus and the effectivity of our product has been confirmed in a medical study, which we initiated proactively. • The development of a fully compostable paper-based packaging line, which, at the same time, is food-safe, and superhobic, to reduce plastic waste and composite material. In 2020, we have once again been honoured with renowned environmental awards for our work, among those, the CFI Sustainability Award as “Best Green Alternative Innovation Europe 2020” and the revalidation of the “Green Brand Award for 2020/21”. A distinction with the “Green World Award” has already been announced by the jury and will be revealed and further specified in an official ceremony which has been postponed to 2021 due to the current COVID-19 situation. Nanopool will continue to take a stand for improving the efficient use of precious resources day by day – for a healthy environment and a livable future. Responsibility for society We are responsible for our employees as well as the cultural and social togetherness. We take a stand for compliance with human rights and for fair work conditions – also the employees of our suppliers. We oppose child labour and any exploitation and corruption. We promote and support variety in all social areas. Responsibility for the future Our economic acting follows the principle of avoiding current, projectable and possible future risks for the environment and the society, respectively not have them come up in the first place. We want to actively help shape the future and use the diverse chances of a sustainable economic management. nanopool® GmbH | Zum Felsacker 76 | D-66773 Schwalbach, Germany |  +49 (0) 6831 8902712 | www.nanopool.eu | info@nanopool.eu
