2020 2020 Communication on Progress Report Communication on Progress Report Statement of Continued Support from the Managing Director Corporate Social Responsibility is a business concept to consider the interest of society by taking responsibility for the impact of business on stakeholders. It incorporates principles of sustainability into each business decisions. And that makes a business sustain for long run along with benefitting the society. Epyllion has made sustainability a part of organizational culture. From taking strategies of having paperless office to the process development for product sustainability, we are making changes in a positive note. Epyllion is providing guidance for other companies that may be ready to take the first steps through. A professional network, CRNCorporate Responsibility Network is created for pulling upward the people lie behind in society and to share our experiences for mutual learning and for taking CSR steps in broader way. We are taking it as our own responsibility to create ways to make this industry sustainable and that is where our accountability is Since 2012, it has been 08 long years, we are in journey with UN Global Compact and with each year we are thriving our best effort to promote UNGC principles in our business. Epyllion is taking its business accountability for making a formal, public commitment to better practices is a bigger step. I am glad to introduce Epyllion’s Communication on Progress (COP) report with our endeavors with CSR to achieve the Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs). Epyllion Group has been implementing different strategies and activities through Epyllion Foundation with keeping in mind to attain the SDGs adopted by United Nations. Since 1994 Epyllion Group has created a large family of more than 19,000 human resources with its business footprint in 23 countries worldwide. In this reporting year of 2019-2020, we have made progress in terms of economical, societal and environmental point of view. We increased resource efficiency through innovation. We broadened the scope of our goals to achieve business sustainability with including our supply chain and value chain. Our commitment towards the sustainable business development now incorporates the SDGs with upholding full support towards these globally set goals. I believe achieving the SDGs requires the partnership of governments, private sector, civil society and citizens alike to ensure thar we leave a better planet for future generations. Our recognized status of Super Brands for 2018-2019 inspiring us for investing in innovation to facilitate Sustainable Development Goals being alliance with 10 Principle of United Nations Global Compact and 17 SDGs of UN. Human resources play a vital role in success. As the Managing Director of Epyllion Group, I am committing for 10 Principles of the UNGC and for the endorsement of Epyllion’s sustainable business approach to move forward for the upcoming years as a good neighbor across the boundary. ………………………………… Reaz Uddin Al-Mamoon Managing Director Epyllion Group Managing Trustee Epyllion Foundation Date: February 08, 2019 www.epylliongroup.com 2020 2020 Communication on Progress Report Communication on Progress Report Executive Summary With each passing year, sustainability becomes more of a focus in business. The year 2020 is no exception. From minimal use of resources and waste recycling to heightened awareness of the climate change and plastic waste in our oceans, there are already many environmental movements underway. It is imperative that sustainability continues to become a larger part of our business. Epyllion Group has been recognized the significance of sustainability and hence is continuously adopting sustainable development business practices with a status of Super Brand. These practices have been in line with our organizational core values and our vision to be the leader in the business domain and have a visible contribution to the GDP of Bangladesh. As one of the leading exporters in the readymade garments (RMG) sector in Bangladesh, this is progressively more important for us. Sustaining effective corporate governance practices remain a key priority of Epyllion Group’s board of management. Corporate governance in Epyllion is dynamic and business-focused with rooted in a culture of transparency and accountability. More and more business leaders wish to contribute to corporate sustainability, including through mainstreaming the ten principles of the UN Global Compact into their corporate strategies and operations. One reason is that increasingly, research confirms that companies who explicitly consider sustainability topics widen their company’s view on risks and opportunities and therefore increase long-term value creation. With an aim to assist the other business organizations with experience and expertise in CSR arena, Epyllion Group has formed the CRN (Corporate Responsibility Network) collaborated with other big conglomerates, NGOs and CSR professionals. So Epyllion’s CSR is not stepping outside of its direct sphere of influence. At the same time, the efforts to ensure sustainable growth span through complete planning from procurement to operations, from how it runs business to the products and services it provides, Epyllion pledges to continue the progress it has made in business for last 26 years. Epyllion gives emphasis on creating larger societal value with continuing to manage financial value creation. Epyllion’s aspiration to be a business pioneer in terms of sustainability is manifested in its Vision and Values as well as in the Vitality of its human capital, dedicated to building an exemplary enterprise for the country. It recognizes company’s capacity to create societal value that crucially depend on the continued robust growth of its businesses. Towards this, significant investments have been made to create superior intellectual capital through business innovation and social responsibility. With the formation of Epyllion Foundation in 2011, Epyllion started its journey with CSR with an aim to go beyond compliance. Epyllion Foundation demonstrates its full support and commitment towards the Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs) and 10 Principles of UNGC. CSR strategies and initiatives are being taken to showcase the commitment towards the goals. With the globally changing scenario, Epyllion is now adapting the new Global Goals set by the global leaders to put its effort on eliminating poverty, inequality and climate change by 2030. Epyllion is working towards the wide-reaching change of business sustainability which proves as beneficial for business and profitability, because once it establishes in the sustainability commitment, it will begin a process towards three results: creating a more powerful purpose in company; streamlining the supply chain, which can reduce expenses; and driving innovation within the business. So Epyllion is making the business profitable for itself and for others. Creating a better value with the sphere of influence is what Epyllion is working, both in CSR and in business. www.epylliongroup.com CONTENTS Core Philosophy & Ethical Views for sustainability We are focusing with Human Spirit ....................................................................................................... 01 Our Principles ............................................................................................................................................... 02 Ten Principles of UN Global Compact .................................................................................................. 03 The 17 sustainable development goals (SDGs) to transform our world .................................. 04 Corporate Social Responsibility (CSR) .................................................................................................. 05 Sustainability and CSR ............................................................................................................................... 06 Chapter 01: Epyllion Group 1.1 Epyllion Group: Stepping beyond the territory ......................................................................... 07 1.2 Business sectorial exposure .............................................................................................................. 08 1.3 Business growth over the years ....................................................................................................... 09 1.4 Integrated management system .................................................................................................... 10 1.5 Business & sustainability .................................................................................................................... 11 1.6 Epyllion Foundation ............................................................................................................................ 12 1.7 Focused issues of Epyllion’s CSR with Financial allocation .................................................... 13 Chapter 02: Human Rights 2.1 Our commitment towards human rights ..................................................................................... 14 2.2 Good Health & wellbeing ................................................................................................................... 14 2.3 Quality Education ................................................................................................................................. 20 2.4 Employee Engagement Program Considering Gender Equality ......................................... 22 2.5 Reduced inequalities ........................................................................................................................... 25 2.6 Looking towards the future .............................................................................................................. 28 Chapter 03: Labor Rights 3.1 Our commitment towards the labor rights ................................................................................. 30 3.2 Decent work & Economic growth ................................................................................................... 31 3.3 Reduced Inequality .............................................................................................................................. 32 3.4 Freedom of Association ...................................................................................................................... 32 3.5 Upholding Child Rights ...................................................................................................................... 33 Chapter 04: Climate Action to save the Environment 4.1 Our commitment towards the environment .............................................................................. 34 4.2 Industry, innovation & infrastructure ............................................................................................ 34 4.3 Maximum utilization of resources ................................................................................................. 35 4.4 Sustainable communities in terms of environment ............................................................... 36 4.5 Partnerships to achieve the Goals .................................................................................................. 38 Chapter 05: Anti-Corruption 5.1 Our commitment towards anti-corruption ................................................................................. 39 5.2 Corporate governance ....................................................................................................................... 39 5.3 Continuous effort in excellence ....................................................................................................... 40 Chapter 06: Achievements 6.1 Awards and recognitions .................................................................................................................. 41 6.2 Cortication’s and memberships ....................................................................................................... 42 www.epylliongroup.com Core Philosophy Core Philosophy & Ethical Views of Epyllion Group Epyllion Group is known as an entity whose main driven force is its human resources. Within the framework of the group, human resource plays a vital role in its success. Our core philosophy and ethical views are mainly casted for protecting environment to establish Ethical Business Practice utilizing Human Spirit. Human Spirit Ethical Business Practice Protecting Environment We are focusing with Human Spirit: Epyllion foundation is INTEGRITY, we conduct our business in an open and forthright manner in strict compliance with applicable laws, rules regulations. Our strength is our PEOPLE, the collective talents of our employees comprise our most important asset. Our style is TEAM WORK, providing a workplace environment that effectively balances and stimulates the individual and the team is our hallmark. Our goal is EXCELLENCE, Excellence in the form of quality is a shared attribute of the customers and markets we serve and the products we build. We are in that state to accomplish CSR with Commitment, Sustainability with Responsibility following the mentioned principles. www.epylliongroup.com 1 2020 Communication on Progress Report Core Philosophy Our Principles We are in that state to accomplish CSR with Commitment, Sustainability with Responsibility following the mentioned principles. 1. Seven Core Principles of ISO 26000 2. 10 Principles of UN Global Compacts 3. 17 SDGs by UN 4. 33 Objectives set by Epyllion foundation. The Seven Core Subjects, which every user of ISO 26000 1. Organizational governance. 2. Human rights. 3. Labor practices. 4. Environment. 5. Fair operating practices. 6. Consumer issues. 7. Community involvement and development. The ISO 26000 defines seven core subjects of social responsibility for sustainability and long term success. 2 www.epylliongroup.com www.epylliongroup.com 01 2020 Communication on Progress Report Ten Principles of UN Global Compact Human Rights Principle 1 : Businesses should support and respect the protection of internationally proclaimed human rights Principle 2 : Make sure that they are not complicit in human rights abuses Labor Principle 3 : Businesses should uphold the freedom of association and the effective recognition of the right to collective bargaining Principle 4 : The elimination of all forms of forced and compulsory labor Principle 5 : The effective abolition of child labor Principle 6 : The elimination of discrimination in respect of employment and occupation Environment Principle 7 : Business should support a precautionary approach to environmental challenges Principle 8 : Undertake initiatives to promote greater environmental responsibilities Principle 9 : Encourage the development and diffusion of environmentally friendly technologies Anti-corruption Principle 10 : Businesses should work against corruption in all its forms, including extortion and bribery www.epylliongroup.com 3 2020 Communication on Progress Report Core Philosophy The Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs) are a collection of 17 global goals set by the United Nations in 2015. A total number of 169 targets are interrelated though the 17 broader goals to achieve. The SDGs cover a broad range of social and economic development issues. These include poverty, hunger, health, education, climate change, gender equality, water, sanitation, energy, environment and social justice. The SDGs are also known as Transforming our World: the 2030 Agenda for Sustainable Development or Agenda 2030 in short. The goals were developed to replace the Millennium Development Goals (MDGs) which ended in 2015. Unlike the MDGs, the SDG framework does not distinguish between developed and developing nations. Instead, the goals apply to all countries. In September 2015, the General Assembly adopted the 2030 Agenda for Sustainable Development that includes 17 Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs). Building on the principle of “leaving no one behind”, the new Agenda emphasizes a holistic approach to achieving sustainable development for all. 4 www.epylliongroup.com 01 2020 Communication on Progress Report Core Philosophy Corporate Social Responsibility (CSR) CSR is an evolving business practice that incorporates sustainable development into a company's business model. It has a positive impact on social, economic and environmental factors. Corporate Social Responsibility is a way to conduct business without creating negative impacts to the environment and its community with making profit simultaneously. It also can be defined in many perspectives. It is a management concept where companies integrate social and environmental concerns in their business through operations and interactions with their stakeholders. Corporate social responsibility (CSR) is consider as a business approach that contributes to sustainable development by delivering economic, social and environmental benefits for all stakeholders. CSR is a broad concept that addresses human rights, corporate governance, fair labor practice, environmental conservations, working conditions and contribution to economic development. It is an attempt to align private enterprises to the goal of sustainable global development by providing them with more comprehensive set of working objectives than just profit alone. The perspective taken for an organization to be sustainable. The concept of CSR is still a new in Bangladesh and the concept is also varies regarding perspectives. In recent years their considerable changes are seen in industries to act responsibly and be accountable for the impacts they are making on social, political and ecological environments. Epyllion believes to sustain and grow in the long term; it sees itself as being incorporated with the community in conducts business in and business for. Thus, it invests responsibly, avoiding projects where the potential for environmental damage outweighs the economic benefits, and ensure the welfare of different internal and external stakeholders. Epyllion Group’s strategic approach of CSR comes from the principles of internationally accepted norms and standards, seven Core principles of UN Global Compact and seventeen Global Compact. Key CSR issues for Epyllion Group is environmental management, eco-efficiency, responsible sourcing, stakeholder engagement, labor standards and working conditions, employee and community relations, social equity, gender balance, human rights, good governance, and anti-corruption measures. www.epylliongroup.com 5 2020 Communication on Progress Report Core Philosophy Sustainability and CSR: Sustainability is a comprehensive approach to management of organizations which is focused on creating and maximizing long-term economic, social and environmental value. It is a response to the challenges of the modern world facing organizations from the public and private sectors. Importance of Corporate Social Responsibility demonstrates a business that takes interest in wider social issues rather than just those that impact company’s profit margins. Therefore, it makes good business sense to operate sustainably. Creating sustainable business value comes from incorporating CSR approach in organizations that consciously build their value through active management of the economic, social and environmental impact. It is a holistic approach for business sustainability and accountability. CSR influences all aspects of an organization’s operationsfrom sourcing to final servicing and product output. Brand value is created through it. Conscious consumers want to buy products from companies they know, believe and trust. Suppliers and customers also look for business partnerships with companies they can rely on, employees want to work for companies they respect and get honor, reputed. Large investors want to support firms that they perceive to be socially responsible, and welfare, nonprofits want to work together with companies seeking practical solutions to common shared goals which are SDGs. Social concerns are now an area of interest for the business world. Positive initiatives of a corporation are to assess and take responsibility for the company's effects on environmental and social wellbeing. Corporate social responsibility simply raises for strategies by which corporations can conduct their business ethically and responsibly. Through CSR an enterprise can involve a range of activities such as working in partnership with local communities, socially sensitive investment, developing relationships with employees, customers and their families, and involving in activities for environmental conservation and sustainability. 6 www.epylliongroup.com www.epylliongroup.com 01 Epyllion Group www.epylliongroup.com 2020 Communication on Progress Report Epyllion Group 1.1 Epyllion Group: Stepping beyond the territory Epyllion Group started the journey of a dream with a readymade garments factory with 2 sewing lines and 200 human resources in 1994. This factory was located at Mirpur Industrial Area which is an industrial zone in the capital of Bangladesh. Epyllion started growing up with the dedicated team, innovative ideas and long-term vision. Epyllion is still in growing position and is increasing its business exposure with a continual expansion. Epyllion is all about new initiatives, new ventures and new aims with rooted principles and ethical views. Currently Epyllion is a business house with textile, garments, and garments accessories for exporting RMGs to worldwide. Epyllion Group is now having its business footprint in Bangladesh’s retail fashion industry with Sailor. A food & beverage unit is also waiting for its nationwide commercial launch. With a set of work force of more than 19,000 skilled officials, Epyllion Group is sustaining and will sustain the optimum business development in terms of profit, people and planet. It has positive growth in employment generation, annual turnover and sustainable supply chain. Epyllion’s focus point in journey is to be an institution where the human development and social contribution will be focused and profit will come as the by product. While Epyllion has achieved significant milestones in its sustainable journey, the road ahead will continue to be challenging. Epyllion recognizes the need to play a much larger role in growing societal value for Bangladesh, the country with divergent socio-economic challenges. We commit to build responsible competitiveness in business with good corporate governance and efficient & ethical organizational strategy. Regrettably, markets, as they are structured. 7 www.epylliongroup.com 01 2020 Communication on Progress Report Epyllion Group 1.2 Business sectorial exposure Textiles 25.76% .81% Garments Washing 9.57% 58.89% Garments Accessories .29% Retail Business 4.68% Testing Lab www.epylliongroup.com 8 2020 Communication on Progress Report Epyllion Group 1.3 Business growth over the years 1.3.1 Capacity growth (From 2008-09 Fiscal Year to 2015-16 Fiscal Year) 2008-2009 8% 2009-2010 31% 2010-2011 32% 2011-2012 2% 2012-2013 9% 2013-2014 12% 2014-2015 8% 2015-2016 3% 2016-2017 5% 2017-2018 4% 2018-2019 4.5% 1.3.2 Export growth (From 2008-09 Fiscal Year to 2015-16 Fiscal Year) 2008-2009 22% 2009-2010 19% 2010-2011 25% 2011-2012 5% 2012-2013 11% 2013-2014 10% 2014-2015 25% 2015-2016 5% 2016-2017 12% 2017-2018 10% 2018-2019 4.5% 9 www.epylliongroup.com 01 2020 Communication on Progress Report Chapter 01 : Epyllion Group 1.4 Integrated management system In managing business, Epyllion Group’s organizational structure is arranged in such a way that people can perform jobs to ensure proactiveness and continual improvement in terms of quality products and services with ensuring customer satisfaction, achievement of organizational goal and business sustainability. The structure is both formal and flexible based on operational need. In formal settings, there are Code of Conduct and formal policies to control tasks and responsibilities and to take decisions to be implemented in every part of the organization. This Integrated Management Systems allows Epyllion to conduct integrated audits and assessments, as well as optimize processes and resources. When integrating digitalized integrated management system, it can help forecasting business, ensures time management, product quality, measurable report generation, easy communication and eliminates system loss and therefore reduce costs. An integrated management system that includes from business planning and forecasting to the finance, operation, HR, Compliance and SR management is adopted to ensure the conformity with national and international expectations. Stakeholder engagement is another prime concern for a business. Stakeholders play an important role in the success of our organization and hence their perspectives are of extreme importance. Epyllion recognizes all individuals and/or groups who are affected by its business activities or those who have direct or indirect influence to affect business as our stakeholders. www.epylliongroup.com 10 2020 Communication on Progress Report Chapter 01 : Epyllion Group 1.5 Business & sustainability Epyllion Group’s business runs with the promise to work in the path of sustainability. Being a socially responsible organization we support the global views in social responsibility issues. When stating our full support to the Global Sustainable Goals, we take the 7 SR principles from the core discussed issues of ISO 26000 and the 10 guiding principles of the United Nations Global Compact and 17 United Nations Development Goals. It adopts the global aims and views in its business management system. Led by the United Nations, the world has adopted the Sustainable Development Goals, a bold new global agenda for ending poverty, fighting inequality and preserving the environment. And Epyllion, with showing full support to all these seventeen goals, has adopted the goals that are similar and achievable from its business stands. Anything Epyllion initiates and anything it does as its social responsibility commitment, it makes sure it is sustainable, feasible and meets the stakeholder interest. Epyllion aims to connect the society through the own employees with decency. Fruitful result comes from the active involvement of stakeholders within and beyond the business. From CSR, Epyllion looks for the human development, team building and corporate governance in business management. 11 www.epylliongroup.com 01 2020 Communication on Progress Report Chapter 01 : Epyllion Group 1.6 Epyllion Foundation Epyllion Foundation is the Trust under Epyllion Group incepted on April 2011. This trust has been formed to look after the welfare of society and its people. The foundation firmly believes that setting-up new industries and creating employment opportunities is the best form of serving the society. Epyllion Foundation believes that a sustainable organization is an organized group of professionals that aims to advance sustainability. Epyllion Group is implementing social welfare related actions through Epyllion Foundation with the philanthropic thoughts that Epyllion trust that CSR is a sustainable way of business management to execute company’s commitment and responsibility towards the People (Employee and community), Planet (Natural environment) and the Profit (Economic development. Epyllion Group has been implementing different actions through the fund of Epyllion Foundation keeping in mind to attain the SDGs adopted by United Nations. Our special focus is on the SDG no 3,4,5,8,9,10,13 & 17. Goal #3. Good Health and Well-being Goal #4. Quality Education Goal #5. Gender Equality Goal #8. Decent Work and Economic Growth Goal #9. Industry, Innovation and Infrastructure Goal #10. Reduced Inequality Goal #13. Climate Action Goal #17. Partnerships to achieve the Goal. To meet the societal challenges in the form of CSR, Epyllion Foundation is formed as an independent entity. This foundation is continuing its effort in improving the living standard of the community and advancing the potentiality of the society and environment. With its journey of Ten years, it has initiated and involved in social and environmental programs to meet global needs and challenges with 33 Objectives. www.epylliongroup.com 12 2020 Communication on Progress Report Chapter 01 : Epyllion Group 1.7 Focused issues of Epyllion’s CSR with financial allocation a. Good health and wellbeing b. Education & communication c. Employee engagement d. Environment and health & safety e. Youth & sports development f. Community involvement and development 26% 17% 18% 16% 15% 8% 13 www.epylliongroup.com 01 Human Rights www.epylliongroup.com 2020 Chapter 02 : Establishing Communication on Progress Report Human Rights for Sustainability 2.1 Our commitment towards human rights Epyllion Group is committed to maintain business practices with being stimulus to the international norms and standards of human rights. We uphold the commitment for our core business and the sphere of influence also. The foundation has been supporting Prothom Surjo Foundation, which is a not-for-profit voluntary organization founded with the aim to help deprived street children by serving fundamental human rights. The activity of the organization assists children to be a true human being towards a positive aspect in their life. Regarding the moto of both organizations Epyllion Foundation and Prothom Surjo Foundation have come to an understanding to take the all responsibility of the 23 Children in a sustainable manner. We are giving financial assistance ensuring their nutritious food, quality education, health and safety, habitation with hygiene sanitation, emergency support and sharing the joy of festivals. For sharing the joy of Eid-Ul-Fitr, Sailor by Epyllion Group provided cloths to the children of Prothom Surjo Foundation in this year. Epyllion Group also provided one computer to the Prothom Surjo Foundation for increasing the information and technological knowledge of the children. Epyllion Group also organized a study tour for those children. In this tour, they visited our National Air Force Museum. Epyllion Group conducted a Health Camp in order to checkup the health condition of those children. On 16th December 2019, Epyllion Group also distributed winter cloths to the children of Prothom Surjo Foundation. 2.2 Good Health & wellbeing Epyllion Group’s one of the focused issues in terms of CSR is health & wellbeing. It has developed its strategic approach to health and wellbeing and is concentrating on building a “sustainable workforce”. To remain one step ahead in the global competitive business, sustainable workforce and community put an additional strong point. Stepping beyond the regulatory requirements of the country and international expectations, Epyllion Group initiates its own innovative programs to aid employees and communities in terms of health and wellbeing. Corporate health shield agreement, health service agreement with the health service providers and health insurance coverage for the employees are the regular packages for the employees to sustain a “Sustainable workforce”. www.epylliongroup.com 14 2020 Chapter 02 : Establishing Communication on Progress Report Human Rights for Sustainability In four zones we already covered 276 executives in 2019 and 281 executives in 2018 under BMI-Body Mass Index Management System. Regular health camps are organized in all factories round the year. Additional to this, community health camps are also organized to aid the community people to get free heath advice and medications. More than 7122 community people were served under this program with the scope of pediatric health care, women health care and medicine & general health care. Health awareness programs are also conducted to generate mass awareness. This year, a “Run for Awareness” marathon program was conducted with awareness session for the employees to generate consciousness on diabetes and its severity. Epyllion Group takes it as their responsibility to support the expecting female employees. Welfare officers and the medical team keep them in regular monitoring and health check-up to ensure wellbeing of the mother and the fetus. Nutrition allowance, a monthly monetary allowance is provided for their nutritional wellbeing as well. After coming back from maternity leave, all women employees get post pregnancy psychological help from both the medical expertise and welfare officers. 15 www.epylliongroup.com 01 2020 Chapter 02 : Establishing Communication on Progress Report Human Rights for Sustainability Statistical figure in reporting year 2060 women employees enjoyed 542 ĐŚŝůĚƌĞŶǁĞƌĞƚĂŬĞŶĐĂƌĞ 115 ĐŚŝůĚƌĞŶǁĞƌĞĐŽǀĞƌĞĚƵŶĚĞƌ ͞EƵƚƌŝƟŽŶĂůůŽǁĂŶĐĞ͟ ŽĨĂƚƚŚĞĐŚŝůĚĐĂƌĞĐĞŶƚĞƌ͘ ƚŚĞǀĂĐĐŝŶĂƟŽŶƉƌŽŐƌĂŵ͘ ĚƵƌŝŶŐƉƌĞŐŶĂŶĐǇ͘ 1500 350 1905 ĞŵƉůŽǇĞĞƐǁĞƌĞƐĞƌǀĞĚ 1557 8940 ĐŽŵŵƵŶŝƚǇƉĞŽƉůĞǁĞƌĞ 350 ŽĸĐŝĂůƐƌĂŶĨŽƌĂǁĂƌĞŶĞƐƐ ƵŶĚĞƌƚŚĞƌĞŐƵůĂƌŚĞĂůƚŚĐĂŵƉ͘ ƐĞƌǀĞĚďǇƚŚĞĐŽŵŵƵŶŝƚǇ ƵŶĚĞƌĂŶĂǁĂƌĞŶĞƐƐ ŚĞĂůƚŚĐĂŵƉ͘ ͘ ŐĞŶĞƌĂƟŽŶƉƌŽŐƌĂŵ͘ 1095 EĞǁŽƌŶ'ŝŌƐƚŽǁĞůĐŽŵĞ 553 ƉĞŽƉůĞƌĞĐĞŝǀĞĚ 100% employees were newly born junior members ƉƌĞͲĞŵƉůŽǇŵĞŶƚŚĞĂůƚŚĐŚĞĐŬͲƵƉ ĐŽǀĞƌĞĚƵŶĚĞƌŚĞĂůƚŚ ŽĨƉǇůůŝŽŶ'ƌŽƵƉ͘ ƐĞƌǀŝĐĞŝŶƐƵďƐŝĚŝǌĞĚŵĂŶŶĞƌ͘ ĂǁĂƌĞŶĞƐƐƉƌŽŐƌĂŵƐ͘ 16 www.epylliongroup.com 01 2020 Chapter 02 : Establishing Communication on Progress Report Human Rights for Sustainability 2.2.1 Mobile Eye Clinic : Noyon Tori Since 2018, Epyllion Foundation is jointly organizing an Eye Care Project with Manabik Shahajya Shanghtha for a mobile eye clinic for community, named “Noyon Tori”. The aim of the project is aid people in remote rural locations with providing comprehensive eye care services and to identify cataract patients for surgery to restore their sight. Epyllion Foundation believes that the Mobile Eye Clinic will reach out to the unprivileged people in the remote, rural locations to provide eye care where eye care services are unavailable. Our joint venture NOYON TORI (NT)-the mobile eye clinic successfully conducted 33 eye camps so far and we have screened almost 7000 patients. During 2019 with Noyon Tori 24 eye camps were conducted where 4818 unprivileged people were screened and received free eye care services. A total of 498 spectacles and 168 medicines were given out. From these eye camps 361 surgeries were performed at our partner hospitals – Shafiuddin Ahmed Foundation (SAF) – Thakurgaon and Prime Bank Eye Hospital, Dhaka. Mentionable that most of these camps were held in far flung areas approximately 330km to over 400km from Dhaka and 25 School Sight Testing Programs (SSTP) in remote areas. In eye camps alone, the NT identified 263 cataract patients of whom 90 patients underwent cataract surgeries at Shafiuddin Ahmed Foundation Hospital. At the same time, the NT screened almost 2000 underprivileged students and provided necessary medications. More than 8000 awareness flyers were distributed among the people and students in Eye Camps and SSTPs. Opening School Sight Testing Program (SSTP) in Panchagarh To serve large number of unprivileged students, the Noyon Tori is going to perform 25 SSTP programs in different government primary schools during the month of October 2019 in remote areas of Panchagarh district. More than 2300 students will get free eye screening and counseling from doctors. Eye Care Projecttreat preventable blindness among the underprivileged; to promote community awareness and education on eye health; and to increase capacity and access to eye care services. To achieve its goals, the ECP-MSS conducts eye camps in remote rural areas to provide eye care services to the underserved population, identify and operate cataract patients to restore their sight, and conducts eye care awareness activities. www.epylliongroup.com 17 2020 Chapter 02 : Establishing Communication on Progress Report Human Rights for Sustainability 2.2.2 HALOW+with M&S Health Access & Linkages opportunities for Workers plus (HALOW+) is a project supported by M&S, GSK that makes aware garments workers and employees about their health and safety, nutrition, diseases, rights & responsibilities and daily habitual activities. This has been implemented on 19th December 2019 to still now covering 5000 Employees making a link and developing communications among workers and all social health related local government organizations, social legal organizations etc. Target employees are living under poverty and superstitions don’t let them to realize the benefit of extra effort. This program distributed Various types of awareness posters, brochures, Food Cards, T-Shirts, Food Plates etc. Workers and staffs are more aware of their health & safety and also extend the information among their families & society. www.epylliongroup.com 18 2020 Chapter 02 : Establishing Communication on Progress Report Human Rights for Sustainability 2.2.3 HOLLOWS with s. Oliver (eye) HOLLOWS is a project running which is supported by S. Oliver and the Fred Hollows Foundation which focuses on empowering female garment workers through uptake of eye care services. Since 8th January 2018 to till now 4800 workers and staffs are covered. Workers are now taking concern beyond their basic needs and now care more for their family and community Female workers especially aware of their rights and compete with male workers in the same way. Under this program we assessed all workers and employee’s eyes and 70 workers got free spectacle frame by this project. 2.2.4 Measurements of outcome 1. 70 workers got free spectacle frame by this project. 2. Workers & employees have been made aware of health and safety issues by trained 139 health champions. 3. Illness of employees is decreased to about 55%. 4. Production and quality is also improved and defect rate decreased approximate 11%. 5. Workers are more aware about their rights & responsibilities. 6. Employees are prepared as Sustainable workforce for betterment of the Company; 7. People are now aware to be preventive for diabetes related illness; 8. Eye injury Decreased 31% and hand, production quality is improved about 7%. 9. Prevented the children from many diseases for vaccination program; 10. Reduced mal-nutrition among expecting mothers; 11. Community people are getting free medicine and health services; 12. Working mothers are more productive for child care Center. 19 www.epylliongroup.com 01 2020 Chapter 02 : Establishing Communication on Progress Report Human Rights for Sustainability 2.3 Quality education Education is the power to transform societies with providing children with the knowledge, skills, and confidence to reach their full potential. Without quality education people will ultimately graduate from higher seats of learning without the necessary knowledge. Investments should be considered on quality education as education is the key indicator for development. Besides the basic expectation in living standards for people, quality education of all ages gives people the lifelong learning opportunities, which is the key importance for individuals and holds an array of benefits for them and the society. Education promotes people’s full economic and societal participation, enables them to be better informed and more active citizens, contributes to their personal well-being, supports their life goals, and increases their efficiency as workers and a citizen of the nation. KHEA (Keen Hand for Educational Assistance) was initiated in 2012 and since then so far 899 students received BDT 9.4 million under this scholarship program. Every year, Epyllion Group arrange this program to motivate students to continue their 20 proud parents 8 years of journey A total of 988 have their both ǁŝƚŚϰĞĚƵĐĂƟŽŶĂů students are ĐŚŝůĚƌĞŶĞŶƟƚůĞĚ ƟĞƌƐ reached so far for KHEA 62 of the KHEA 27 KHEA achievers 9.4 million BDT are achievers are ĂƌĞŝŶŐƌĂĚƵĂƟŶŐ given as scholarship ĐŽŶƟŶƵŝŶŐƐƚƵĚǇ from renowned yearly ǁŝƚŚĨƵůůƟŵĞ ƵŶŝǀĞƌƐŝƟĞƐ͘ employment Epyllion Group successfully completed its silver Jublee publication of the quarterly magazine, “Amader Kotha” Issue No 52 for the employees that is the reflection of our own thoughts, feelings, news and write-ups. This is an open door for our employees to express their imagination and writing capability as well as act as their escape from life stress. Since 2016, a new addition to the publication is added. “Amader Choto Kotha”, a magazine for the junior Epyllions is publishing its forth issue. This magazine aims to flourish the writing and thinking capability of the children. Epyllion Foundation assists the people below the poverty line and the orphan children to continue their basic education though free education and monetary assistance. Communication and promotion are done with the publication of ICT (Information, Communication and Training) materials. This year’s calendar and notebook are published with the theme of Epyllion’s continual support and commitment towards the Global Goals. www.epylliongroup.com 20 2020 Chapter 02 : Establishing Communication on Progress Report Human Rights for Sustainability Considering the junior members and the youth of Epyllion family, Junior Epyllion program had taken an innovative idea to introduce 15 teens from Epyllion family with official ambience. “Children Learning Program”, the one-week program let the participants work for a full working hour at office with basic tasks to gather an experience on professional environment and to feel how their parents work hard at office. Epyllion arranged “Children Learning Program” for the fourth time on 18 December 2019 which has been continued for long 05 days. Epyllion believes that the Generation Z (Gen Z) would be the responsible citizen and representative of our country in future. Thus, this program is an immense opportunity for the Gen Z to learn about Time Management, Discipline, Etiquettes, Professionalism, Safety & Security, Hygiene, Nutritious & Healthy Food, Responsibility & Accountability and Values through various activities, knowledge sharing, role play and games in our Corporate Office & Factory. 2.3.1 Measurements of outcome 1.The poor and illiterate parents are now interested to educate their children; 2. Financial support is helping the families to bear the education related expenses for establishing Quality Education; 3. The unprevailed students are getting opportunity to continue their study in future. 4. The community association with the supported student get inspired for quality education. 5. The KHEA students are now examples in their society for their academic progress. 6. Students are now getting opportunity to study in renown universities, Medical college and engineering institutions. 21 www.epylliongroup.com 01 2020 Chapter 02 : Establishing Communication on Progress Report Human Rights for Sustainability 2.4 Employee Engagement Program Considering Gender Equality The garment industry in Bangladesh has played a significant role in economically uplifting a large group of poor and vulnerable women. Today, approximately 80 percent of garment workers are women from different parts of the country. Epyllion Group is always concern about equal opportunity for both male and female. In total work force 68% is male and 32% is female. Control over income also provides the women with more decision making power at home, voice in the social sphere and self-esteem. Observation of International days like, International Women’s Day, World Diabetes day, Father’s Day, Mother’s Day and involvement of staff increase awareness on gender equality in this society. To establish efficient and safe work environment we give emphasis on health care and subsidy in health check-up, free transport, lunch, snacks, fair price shop, child care, dormitory service, nutrition allowance for expecting female employees, new born gift, birthday celebration farewell program for all and so on. With the motto “Human Spirit”, Epyllion shows full commitment to maintain a sustainable organizational climate with facilitating the employees with all suitable and feasible assistance and engagement program. www.epylliongroup.com 22 2020 Chapter 02 : Establishing Communication on Progress Report Human Rights for Sustainability Engagement with GEAR Program: GEAR (Gender Equality & Returns) is a project of M&S, supported by IFC, ILO & Better Work. GEAR aims to promote career-progression opportunities for women in the RMG sector. GEAR includes trainings for female operators and their managers to ease the path for women to progress into supervisory positions. In Epyllion Style Limited our percentage of Male supervisor and Female Supervisor is 97:3. In this regard GEAR drives for easing the path for women working progress into supervisory roles, thereby improving access to better jobs for women, contributing to increased line –level productivity and reducing gender imbalances at management levels. Total Assessment Days: 6 months Soft Skill Trainings: 4 Days (Place: BRAC CDM) Technical Skill Trainings: 6 Days(Place: BRAC CDM) Total Trained Female Operators: 10 Successfully Passed & Female Operators promoted to Asst. Supervisor: 07 On tracking: 03 Female Operators Engagement of new Project: Mothers@Work Mothers@Work is a national initiative to support maternity rights and promote breastfeeding in the garment sector. Drawing on the combined expertise of UNICEF and the ILO/IFC Better Work Bangladesh programme, the initiative will help protect the wellbeing of mothers and ensure that their children receive the early nutrition they deserve. This project is launched and the orientation of Senior & Mid-Level Management is also conducted in Epyllion Style Limited-ESL in October 2019. The world biggest NGO Brac is going to support us to implement the project in ESL. Epyllion Group regularly organizes celebration programs and team building programs like cultural festival, New Year’s celebration and sports programs in all factories of both Dhaka and Gazipur zone to motivate employees and to accelerate their team building approach and satisfaction. These sports programs continue throughout the year based on the seasons. Incentives and subsidies are adopted for the employees to accelerate their motivation and proficiency. 10 female operators have been trained by IFC & ILO on technical & Soft skill training for 6 months. 23 www.epylliongroup.com 01 2020 Chapter 02 : Establishing Communication on Progress Report Human Rights for Sustainability 2.4.1 Measurements of outcome 1. 07 out 10 female operators have been successfully promoted as asst. supervisors in ESL. 2. 31 employees already engaged with training for Mothers@Work project. 3. Employees are get engaged with the ownership feelings of globalization; 4. Many employees are now aware about International and global concerns; 5. Involvement in sports activities worked for interactive team building across the organization; 6. Reward on any achievement also work as motivation for better devotion to work 24 www.epylliongroup.com 01 2020 Chapter 02 : Establishing Communication on Progress Report Human Rights for Sustainability 2.8 Reduced inequalities The true sustainable development comes with equal opportunities for all. Equality is at the core of all the sustainable development goals. Together we can empower and promote the social and economic inclusion of all people irrespective of age, sex, disability, race, ethnicity, origin, religion, economic or other status. Epyllion Group is an equal opportunity employer and always considers growing inclusively. To aid the vulnerable groups, we encourage recruiting disable and third genders in our business units. Right now, we have 42 disable employees in our factories. All these disable employees have received special recognition from the Epyllion Foundation. www.epylliongroup.com 5 2020 Chapter 02 : Establishing Communication on Progress Report Human Rights for Sustainability A Fair price shop is initiated at one of Epyllion’s ready-made garments unit, Epyllion Style Limited. This initiative is taken with the aim to support employees to get their daily commodities in fair price that is 20% lower than the MRP in the market. Employees are provided with support from this shop with better products and service to the best possible way. This first fair price shop of Epyllion is named after the most sustainable official of this company, Md. Ranu Miah, Assistant General Manager, Product Development Center, who is working with this company for last twenty years with his loyalty, dedication and efficiency. It is the Epyllion way to demonstrate respect towards its loyal employees. Epyllion is the name of lifestyle for its members and associates. To accelerate this view and vision, we continuously engage ourselves in peer groups and business and non-business associations and organizations. To shape up the society in broader aspect in terms of reducing inequalities and bringing positive changes in norms, Epyllion is ahead of others. In aiding the disable persons, we are working with CRP and Marks & Spencer. We are engaged with buyer by Marks & Starts program supported by M&S whis is Empowering physically challenged Man & Woman in RMG Sector. 26 www.epylliongroup.com 01 2020 Chapter 02 : Establishing Communication on Progress Report Human Rights for Sustainability Epyllion Group, through Epyllion Foundation, assists the extreme poor and other vulnerable groups of the society through community involvement projects as deemed by the suitable proposals and sustainable options. Epyllion Group has been involved in collaboration with Prothom Surjo Foundation to run their child shelter home, Prothom Surjo, for the unfortunate street children. Epyllion Group aims to engage itself in any program which sustains and bring a sustainable result for the beneficiaries. We invest and engage ourselves in community development projects with our stakeholders in terms of philanthropy, volunteerism and environmental protection. On 16th December 2019, Epyllion Foundation distributed clothing and educational materials to the unprivileged students of 12 Schools in order to reduce their sufferings. Considering the degree of natural calamity, this year Epyllion Foundation contributed winterwear and blankets among more than 3000 people of Ramna, Jorgash, Khorkhordia, Sirajgonj and Machabond Upazillas of Kurigram District with generous cooperation of the district administration of the said district. 1000 flood victims of Chilmari and Ulipur Upazilla of Kurigram District were facilitated with rehabilitation program. 2.5.1 Measurements of outcome 1. 15 physically challenged females are working in ESL under Marks & Starts pro gram. 2. All workers are getting opportunity to buy product on fair price; 3. Victims from disaster like flood, land slide, and cold wind can resilience by financial support; 3. Street children are getting opportunity to get the basic rights; 4. Differently able persons are also part of the development through inclusion; 5. Equal opportunity is great inspiration for all level staff. www.epylliongroup.com 27 2020 Chapter 02 : Establishing Communication on Progress Report Human Rights for Sustainability 2.6 Looking towards the future Youth development is one of the prior concerns of Epyllion Group. To shape up the society with assisting its youth group, Epyllion Group has a formal sports development program; “Epyllion Group Football Development Program”. This initiative has started in 2013 and now its functioning collaborated with BFF. Under this program, Epyllion Group already organized a district level football development program with Narayanganj DFA NurUddin Ahmed Gold cup is remarkable example to develop the football environment in Narayanganj district. After completion of this initiative, Epyllion increased its sphere to national level. In 2015, Epyllion Group signed up a three-year long football development initiative with BFF. Under this initiative, BFF has organized a talent-hunt program from grass roots level and groom them up for national levels football team with focusing on age-group football development of the country. This initiative is considered as a part of sustainable CSR practice of Epyllion Group. The scrutiny behind this forwarded step from Epyllion Group was to revive the sports environment of the country and to rejuvenate the sportsmanship attitude of the youth who tends to engage in addiction and anti-social activities. This year ‘Epyllion Group Football Development Program EGFDP’ launched with the aim to prepare national level player providing all kind of equipment’s (jersey, pants, Bibs, Cone, Football, etc) to 16 Football Clubs in Narayanganj District. A total 670 teen players have been coaching by skilled coaches with all kind of financial assistance. A tournament was organized by the participation of the 320 selected best players from each club. This year we have planned to organize international level tournament in Asia zone. A youth development program “Rise above all” was sponsored and associated by Epyllion Group to aid the youth inspiration and motivation from the successful persona in divergent arena. A group of more than 4000 youth attended this day-long program where the successful persona from divergent arena shared the success story with the participants and motivate them to excel in life. Joint CSR program ‘Epyllioner Dhoni’ by Epyllion Group and Radio Dhoni at 91.2 FM with the adage for creating Social Awareness through mass communication. A total of nine show already aired and these radio show are creating mass awareness among the people specially to the youngsters and new graduates regarding their regarding their career, responsibilities, lifestyle, health, enthusiasm and many more through social website and communications. 28 www.epylliongroup.com 01 2020 Chapter 02 : Establishing Communication on Progress Report Human Rights for Sustainability 2.6.1 Measurements of outcome 1. Contribution in public awareness especially for young generation. 2. Raised interest in sports and physical activities. 3. Absent of any fatal or moderate occupational health hazard. 4. 100% employees (both staffs and workers) are covered under EIP (Employee Induction Program) and other necessary training and awareness program. 5. Achieved Occupational Health & Safety Award for 2018 by the Ministry of Labour and Employment www.epylliongroup.com 29 Labor Right www.epylliongroup.com 2020 Communication on Progress Report Chapter 03 : Labor Rights 3.1 Our commitment towards the labor rights Epyllion Group is committed to responsible business practices with absolute regard for conventions of the ILO, UN and national law related with Labor. We uphold the commitment not only for our core business but also for our suppliers and vendors as well. 3.2 Decent work & economic growth Epyllion’s corporate governance philosophy is strengthened with adherence to the sustainable labor management to improve levels of efficiency in our businesses and sustainability initiatives with better performance. Workplace health and safety falls in the core business management. All factories maintain the safe and sound working environment complying with the international standards. All factories are audited by accredited third parties in terms of workplace health and safety issues. There are independent committees in all business units made up with competent officials in all business units to look after the health and safety issues. In 2018, approximately 402 trainings were conducted on health and safety related issues. Each business unit has one professional safety officer to look after the safety issues. This year, “Safety month” was observed with the theme “Safety in practice”. This initiative included safety awareness programs through display and postage materials, publications, employee engagement and training programs along with safety training, mock drills and safety assessment in all business units. Necessary caution signage, materials, PPEs are arranged and given adequately to ensure health and safety in business units. 4 www.epylliongroup.com 01 2020 Communication on Progress Report Chapter 03 : Labor Rights With this approach Epyllion is moving forward to look for small detailing and loop holes in look at regular basis to find out the areas where improvements are required and thus finally Improved profitability, cost efficiencies, employee retentions are achieved. In 2019, approximately 208 trainings were conducted on health and safety related issues. Each business unit has one professional safety officer to look after the safety issues. This year, “Safety month” was observed with the theme “Safety in practice”. This initiative included safety awareness programs through display and postage materials, publications, employee engagement and training programs along with safety training, mock drills, radio shows, plays with safety assessment in all business units. Necessary caution signage, materials, PPEs are arranged and given adequately to ensure health and safety in business units. 3.2.2 Measurements of outcome 1. A total of 7677 employees were covered to aware health and safety related issues; 2. Good safety practice develops awareness among the staff of the entity; 3. All staff including workers are Safe and working decently; 4. Women’s participation in this sector increased for safe working environment; 5. Mock drills and training materials are effective for safety related good practices. www.epylliongroup.com 31 2020 Communication on Progress Report Chapter 03 : Labor Rights 3.3 Reduced Inequality Epyllion Group, as an equal opportunity employer, believes equality in every aspects of its business. So having “Equality in employment” is one of the central concerns of our HR practice. It underpins the concept of decent work for all employees regardless of their gender, religion, origin, race, disabilities. All are getting equal treatment from the company. But, to some extent, we give special consideration to the vulnerable groups as they are being the minority and are in way back from the privileged group. To bring equality, we need to support them first to be in a same territory with us. Our sustainable support for Rohingya people promoted clean environment and good sanitation practice in the location of their habitation. 80 waste bins and 20 sanitary latrines were arranged for those devastated people. We also extended our support to the victims of river erosion, landslide, flood affected areas and from winter waves. During this winter we have provided 6,000 winter wear for school going students to keep them safe from cold wave. 3.4 Freedom of association Freedom of association is practiced in Epyllion with upholding the rights of forming and joining any government registered trade unions or any other labor or other associations. A social dialogue mechanism through the formal Participation Committee (PC) and view exchange meeting with the top management is adopted in Epyllion. Worker’s Participation Committee is a team building initiative which helps to build rapport between the top management and workers. Workers have opportunity to seat and discuss issues through this committee and can settle their mutual interest. This committee regularly sits together to engage in open discussion for mutual benefit. Worker representatives of participation committee are elected by formal and neutral election procedure. View exchange meetings are organized round the year with all workers to encourage them to share their views and interests for collective facilities. 32 www.epylliongroup.com 01 2020 Communication on Progress Report Chapter 03 : Labor Rights 3.5 Upholding child rights We believe in child friendly world and we put our best possible effort to ensure the same within our sphere of influence. All children have right to live a life with mental and physical wellbeing, social security and education. We have modern equipped child care center in our factories with professional attendants. With this facility, our children are getting primary care and comfort when their parents are away for job. . This year Epyllion Foundation worked for reducing school dropout from cold related diseases. Measurements of outcome 1. WRAP and BSCI certified: Certified with WRAP (World wide Responsible Accredited Production) since 2006 and BSCI (Business Social Compliance Initiatives) since 2012. 2. SEDEX membership: SEDEX (Supplier Ethical Data Exchange) membership since 2006 3. No labor strikes or any kind of labor unrest ever 4. Employee grievance records and Analysis of exit inter view of employees demonstrate high satisfaction of labors. 5. Corporate focal point in establishing national CSR guidelines on child rights in Bangladesh 6. Diversified work force is found in every sector from administration to planning and production including disables, transgender, tribal races 7. Low or ignorable amount of migration and absenteeism. 8. Complements from trade unions and labor associations www.epylliongroup.com 33 Environment www.epylliongroup.com www.epylliongroup.com 2020 Communication on Progress Report Chapter 04 : Climate Action to save the Environment 4.1 Our commitment towards the environment Epyllion Group is committed to be in a compliance with all the applicable national laws and international standards and consider environmental sustainability in every business decision. We are committed to restore and improve the eco efficiency and invest in feasible technical and technological improvisations and to promote sustainable initiatives to combat vulnerability of pollution, biodiversity loss and climate change 4.2 Industry, innovation & infrastructure Innovative technological progress is also key to find sustainable solutions to both economic and environmental challenges, such as providing new jobs and promoting energy efficiency. Leadership in Energy and Environmental Design (LEED) is a rating system devised by the United States Green Building Council (USGBC) to evaluate the environmental performance of a building and encourage market transformation towards sustainable design. The system is credit-based, allowing projects to earn points for environmentally friendly actions during construction. Going green is our aim as environment is our priority. We all are putting our footprints on the holy earth. We must take care of it. If going green costs, us huge money, it is going to give us quite lot more than that. Saving our environment, conserving it for our future is our main concern. We project the roadmap towards the future with complete eco-efficient way, eco-friendly way. A balanced life for all living bodies, the biodiversity, the nature, lifestyle and obviously the business itself is the projection. Business deserves the green concerns for making it sustainable. From Epyllion, we look for the sustainable business with focusing on the triple bottom line of sustainable development. With focusing towards the energy efficiency and sustainable resource utilization, we opt for international norms and standards along with certifications for green business. Epyllion has a LEED (Gold) certified industrial infrastructure. Epyllion Style Limited Green Complex is LEED (Gold) certified industrial infrastructure. Another RMG unit is waiting for launching which is also anticipating to get the LEED (Gold) certification projected within 2020. The commercial building of Epyllion, Ninakabbo is an award winner from the government authority of being provident in energy consumption. Epyllion Style Limited, a readymade garments unit of Epyllion Group is certified with “Eco Factory Standard” by Marks & Spencer. Epyllion is investing in infrastructure and innovation for economic growth and development. 34 www.epylliongroup.com 01 2020 Communication on Progress Report Chapter 04 : Climate Action to save the Environment 4.3 Maximum utilization of resources All business units are equipped and maintained in such a way that the energy and water consumption are just to the exact requirement. We have our sustainability commitment to reduce at least 30% energy usage from our current benchmark within 2020 by utilizing the day light, energy efficient lighting, intensive insulation, energy efficient motors and equipment and environment friendly technologies. In 2020, all our goals will be reviewed and revised for coming years to be in line with the SDGs. We are adopting environment friendly technologies to be more efficient in terms of environmental sustainability, such as, hot water generation system with cooling water return and reuse, water harvesting system for both rain water and gray water, solar lighting system, energy efficient servo motors and many more technologies and equipment to uphold our commitment to be eco efficient manufacturing company. To reduce the waste generation and manage the generated wastes we have adopted world renowned technologies to mitigate the waste volume and concentration of toxic chemicals. To minimize our waste volume, we take care from the beginning of raw materials sourcing to the final waste treatment with having processes that are equipped with environment friendly technologies. We are working to achieve zero discharge in our textile division with resource efficiency and improved waste treatment plant. We are contributing our endeavors to unveil human spirit for the harmonious growth of the earth. This world is in extreme challenge in resource scarcity, pollution, loss of biodiversity and climate change. We, being in a tiny part of the world, aim to take the responsibility of our footsteps which we are keeping in the earth. In taking care of environment, our simple viewpoint is, “Think globally. Act locally”. Our contribution comes from our perpetual devotion to improving the efficiency of every stage of activities, products and services with reducing energy and CO2 emissions, minimizing waste and providing better solutions to the environment. We are closely working with our stakeholders to lessen the anthropogenic impact on environment. Epyllion Style Limited has gained universal recognition with the introduction of the logo and labelling system of Global Organic Textile StandardGOTS. In this enabling recycling processors and manufacturers to supply our organic textiles with one certification accepted in all major markets. This is a milestone in consumer recognition and a strong acknowledgement of our reliable quality assurance concept. www.epylliongroup.com 35 2020 Communication on Progress Report Chapter 04 : Climate Action to save the Environment 4.4 Sustainable communities in terms of environment Taking the stewardship to the environmental responsibility at Epyllion Group starts with the Top Management who emphasizes and reinforces the same in its broader environmental commitment. We plan and implement environmental programs to improve the environmental performances and outcomes in respect of achieving environmental sustainability. We want to draw positive footprint on global climate necessitate. In reporting phase, we have organized tree plantation program under the title, “Plant for planet”. This initiative launched its first step at Viqarunnissa Noon School and extended its footprint to 35 schools of Dhaka City. Students from educational institutions attended a drawing competition where they painted on empty drum from Epyllion’s Textile Division and then planted saplings for their school premises. This program aimed to initiate a tree plantation program with reusing industrial wastes. 2,510 drums were recovered to give life to 2,510 saplings with involving more than 23,070 students in this program. Considering the target group of this program, impact is quite high magnitude in terms of nature conservation and development of environmental awareness. All the planted saplings were chosen from endemic but local species of Bangladesh. Educational institutes involved their students in this initiative to increase their attachment towards the natural environment. By all these drawing, plantation and potted plan giveaway program, we wanted to encourage the students and associates in planting and gardening. Tree plantation month is observed each year with an aim to neutralize the carbon footprint we are putting through our business operation. In the reporting year of 2011-2019, we have planted approximately 2,510 saplings within and beyond our own premises. 36 www.epylliongroup.com 01 2020 Communication on Progress Report Chapter 04 : Climate Action to save the Environment Calendar Theme on Climate Action Internationally this year is announced as “The International Year of Plant Health (IYPH) 2020”. When we talk about Environment, few words come like Energy Efficiency, Eco System, Air Pollution, Soil Pollution, Green Building, Vertical gardening, Climate Action etc. Sometimes general people do not understand that. For easy understanding and make it interesting, Epyllion group presented two characters called “Toru & Lota” this year with the thematic calendar 2020. Toru is a tree and Lota is a small girl. This year Epyllion group is presenting the story “Healthy Plant, Healthy Life “by Toru & Lota. By this story Toru & Lota describes Plantation, Pollution, Energy efficiency, Eco system, Vertical gardening, Green building, plastic effects, Water pollution etc in very interesting way. Epyllion will do campaigns round the year by these 2 subjects of the calendar. Global Climate Strike 2019 by Sailor, Epyllion Group Young people have woken up much of the world with their powerful Fridays for Future on the occasion of International Day of Peace (21 September) 2019 with the theme Climate Action for Peace. 20 to 27 September in 2019, the celebration for the International Day of Peace becamI historic as in over 150 countries, people are stepping up to support young climate strikers. More than 1500 students came together to participate in the Capital of Bangladesh, Dhaka at Manik Mia Avenue road and stands with their placard messages. Sailor by Epyllion Group along with Green Savers and Save the Children organize the event where Environmentalist Iqbal Habib, Environmentalist (Lawyer) Rizwana Hasan and many more attended the strike to show the concern to preserve Environment for making the World a place of Peace. Sailor by Epyllion always align with such initiatives as part of our CSR movements for Climate actions to prompt the event arranging 1000 T shirts. Supporting SDG -13 (Sustainable Development Goals 13): Climate Action, a joint CSR initiative has taken by Epyllion Group and world-renowned brand Marks and Spencer. By this jointly collaborated CSR initiative, Epyllion Group and Marks and Spencer organized a tree plantation program at the industrial zone of Epyllion Group which is located at Sailat, Gazipur on 25th October 2018 when 500 (Five hundred) different trees are planted by the employees of both organizations. www.epylliongroup.com 01 37 2020 Communication on Progress Report Chapter 04 : Climate Action to save the Environment 4.5 Partnerships to achieve the Goals We believe achieving the SDGs requires the partnership of governments, private sector, civil society and citizens alike to make sure we leave a better planet for future generations. Promoting sustainable industries, and investing in innovation are all important ways to facilitate Sustainable Development Goals incorporation with the UN ten principles. Human resource plays a vital role in its success. These achievements of ours prevailing due to the personnel of the Epyllion Group are placed at their right positions according to their caliber and inspiration. Measurements of outcome 1. School students are aware about the necessity of trees in our environment; 2. Achieved Global Organic Textile Standard in 2018. 3. Achieved LEED (Gold) certification from US Green Building Council for Epyllion Style Limited Green Complex in 2015 4. Achieved “Eco Factory” standard under Marks & Spencer’s Plan A: Eco Factory Program in 2015 5. Environmental Clearance Certificate from government authority 6. Certification for organic products: OCS 100 Standard and OCS Blended Standard certified since 2009 7. Efficient energy usage technology and effective management system lowers the energy consumption and energy cost and is beneficiary for the economy and environment both 38 www.epylliongroup.com Anti-Corruption www.epylliongroup.com 01 2020 Communication on Progress Report Chapter 05 : Anti-Corruption 5.1 Our commitment towards anti-corruption Epyllion Group takes zero-tolerance approach to bribery and corruption and we are committed to conducting our business in ethical and transparent manner. We have adopted our COC and business principles to uphold our commitment towards the anti-corruption ethics and communicate the same to our workforce and associates. 5.2 Corporate governance Being against corruption is not only a commitment to take as basic sense; it is the standpoint of a good business. Epyllion’s business ethics stand on corporate governance and fair operating practice with competitive but fair business. Fair operating practices concern ethical conduct in our dealings with other organizations. These include our business relationships between peer organizations, government agencies, as well as communities. Our business views arise in the areas of anti-corruption, responsible involvement in the public sphere, fair competition, socially responsible behavior, relations with other organizations and respect for property rights. Our supply chain continues to adapt, innovate, and transform our products and services to create outcomes that enable our business and optimize the customer experience. The reach of our global export volume is immense and we take seriously the responsibility of delivering superior products and services in an ethical and responsible manner. 39 www.epylliongroup.com 01 2020 Communication on Progress Report Chapter 05 : Anti-Corruption 5.3 Continuous effort in excellence Epyllion Group from its core vision, specifically states its persistence on honesty, integrity and fairness in all aspects of business. Ethics are considered as the first and foremost value of our company. It is demonstrated to all individuals associated to this company as if and when anyone faces problems to take a decision where he is not getting clue from the written policies and from the superior, they must follow the ethics and morality. All employees are highly encouraged to report on corruption issues that come to their knowledge to respective authority with relevant proof. Each incident of reporting is inspected confidentially to find out the truth and the wrong one is punished as per the disciplinary practice. There is a procurement policy and procedure where it is specifically stated how the suppliers will be selected, communicated, audited and reviewed for continuing business. Regular supply chain conferences are organized to ensure the absence of probabilities of corruption. All suppliers and stakeholders with whom we do business are always under monitoring and observation both in respect of fair maintenance in monetary transaction and social compliance issues. It is reported publicly if any kind of monetary corruption is found. Credit Rating, a distinctive and regular observance of the group provides assurance of absence of any monetary corruption manipulation. A unique concept of ERP is initiated with the aim to establish transparent and responsible supply chain across the operation. This is the leading concept to develop more sustainable supply chain practice. Epyllion is doing business complying with national and international expectation of business ethics. Along with complying in own business, we are taking care of our key suppliers also. The independent internal audit team (Both in terms of finance and social compliance) look after the key suppliers and monitor them in regular manner with stringent ownership. As our business footprint increases, we are now engaging with many national and international business companies and associations. In strengthening global partnership with all our stakeholders both in supply chain and value chain, we concern ethical conduct in dealing with any organization including partners, suppliers, buyers, contractors, competitors, associates and others. Our commitment to sustainability drives our ethical and transparent endeavor. We believe in integration of our business values, cultural pillars and operating doctrines to meet the expectations of our customers, employees, partners, investors, communities and wider society. www.epylliongroup.com 40 2020 Communication on Progress Report Chapter 05 : Anti-Corruption Measurements of outcome I. Achieved recognition from Marks & Spencer and ISO authority for practicing ISO 26000, the international stan dard of social responsibility. II. Absence of any corruption issues so far 41 www.epylliongroup.com 01 Achievements www.epylliongroup.com 01 2020 Communication on Progress Report Chapter 06 : Achievements 6.1 Awards and recognitions a) Epyllion Group achieved BGAPMEA Export Trophy 2019 by BGAPMEA (Bangladesh Garments Accessories and Packaging Manufacturers and Exporters Association). b) Achieved Finance Award 2019 for playing leading role in ‘Documentary Collection Pilot Project’. c) Achieved SEDEX Award on 26 March 2019 for Best Health and safety Programmer. d) Achieved Occupational Health & Safety Award for 2018 by the Ministry of Labour and Employment. e) Epyllion Group has been recognized as one of the most outstanding Super brands on its field for 2018-2020. f) Managing Director of Epyllion Group has announced as CIP (2008, 2012, 2016) g) CSR Contributor Award by Rotary Club Uttara in 2018. h) 6th Standard Chartered Financial Express CSR Award in 2016 i) 5th HSBC Export Excellence Award in 2014 j) BDJOBS.COM Best Employer Award 2014 k) 2nd Social and Environmental Excellence Award in 2014 l) Annual CSR Award 2014 m) Honorary Award from BSPA (Bangladesh Sports Press Association) 2014 to the Managing Director of Epyllion Group n) Epyllion Style Limited is announced as the “Eco Factory” by Marks & Spencer in 2015 o) Best Supplier Award from C&A in 2004. www.epylliongroup.com 42 2020 Communication on Progress Report Chapter 06 : Achievements 6.2 Certifications and memberships a) Sustainable product Certificate from Oekotex , Hohenstein on 27 January 2019 since 9 years. b) Certification on C&A Supplier Ownership Program in 25 February 2018 for five units of Epyllion group. c) SWAN Eco Labeling Certification in 2018. d) GRSGlobal Recycled Standard Certification in 2018. e) Global Organic Textile (GOTS) 5.0 certification in 2018. f) LEED (Gold) certification for Epyllion Style Limited Green Complex in 2015. g) Achievement of the OHSAS 18001 standard certification for three business units of Textile Division of Epyllion Group since 2016 to till date. h) Recognition for successful integration of the guidelines of ISO 26000 for Epyllion Style Limited i) Achievement of WRAP certification. j) Achievement of BSCI, SEDEX membership. k) Signatory Membership to United Nations Global Compact (UNGC) since 2012. l) Engagement with Carbon Performance Improvement Initiative (CPI2) certification. m) Engagement with Better Work Bangladesh for two units. n) Achievement of average 60% verified score against FEM-2018 self-assessment for all applicable production units. o) Achievement of Silver Rating in Sustainable Chemical Management (SCM) Program. 43 www.epylliongroup.com 01 For more details, please contact: S.M. Nazmul Ahsan Sr. Manager CSR HR, Admin & CSR Epyllion Group Contact Number: +88-01730-051948 Email: nazmulhr@epylliongroup.com Web: www.epylliongroup.com Corporate Office: NINAKABBO, Level: 12-13, 227/A Tejgaon-Gulshan Link Road, Dhaka-1208, Bangladesh.
