United Nations Global Compact Communication on Progress This report serves as the Communication on Progress to the United Nations Global Compact for Deloitte Global covering 2018–2019. While Deloitte Global is the signatory of the United Nations Global Compact, this report and the responses below include the activities of Deloitte Global and its network of member firms. The table below contains information or references to material in the 2019 Deloitte Global Impact Report (“Global Report”) that addresses the UN Global Compact principles. UN Global Compact Principle Disclosure GRI Indicator Human rights Principle 1: Businesses should Part of Deloitte’s purpose is to contribute to society, building confidence and trust, upholding integrity, 103-2, 412-2, 413-1, 414-2 support and respect the protection of and supporting the community. Deloitte recognizes that it has a responsibility to uphold human rights internationally proclaimed human rights; both in the workplace and more broadly within its sphere of influence. Deloitte has formally outlined the responsible business principles we believe in and the commitments Deloitte has made via a Principle 2: make sure that they are not Responsible Business Practices statement. This statement serves to align decision-making and activities complicit in human rights abuses. across Deloitte and addresses a number of areas including human rights. In Deloitte workplaces, human rights typically take the form of non-discrimination and diversity in personnel practices, privacy, professional development, and work-life balance. Our Global Principles of Business Conduct (“Global Code”) outline Deloitte’s ethical commitments and expectations for approximately 312,000 Deloitte professionals globally, giving the organization a strong foundation built upon indelible principles. Elements of the Global Code directly address human rights and treatment of our professionals including the following: • We support efforts to drive sustainable development, and we respect human rights standards. • We foster a culture and working environment where our professionals treat each other with respect, courtesy, and fairness, promoting equal opportunity for all. • We do not tolerate harassment or unfair discrimination in our working environments. • We understand the broader impact that our work has on society, our professionals, and our clients, and we conduct business with those interests in mind. Deloitte Integrity Imperative The Deloitte Integrity Imperative, launched in May 2017, amplifies the Global Code across the organization by empowering leaders to set a strong tone from the top, encouraging people to speak up when they witness anything that runs counter to the Global Code, and helping Deloitte act quickly and appropriately in the face of misconduct. During FY2019, Deloitte Global and member firm Ethics teams worked to embed the Integrity Imperative. Deloitte has strengthened its global ethics policy requirements and sought to enhance its UN Global Compact Principle Disclosure GRI Indicator existing ethics program by reinforcing many business and governance processes and embedding the initiative’s new activities to further promote consistency and diligence across the organization. The Deloitte Global Ethics team and member firm Ethics officers continue to work closely with senior Deloitte leaders to build and enhance the organization’s ethics program, which is composed of the following elements: • The Global Code; • A global ethics policy that sets out the requirements for member firms’ own ethics programs; • A global nonretaliation policy that makes firm Deloitte’s commitment to a nonretaliatory workplace; • Deloitte ethics training programs—including online courses, classroom programs and facilitator-led interactive case discussions—and communications campaigns. Ethics training is required for all new hires upon joining Deloitte, upon promotion to manager (specific to their roles) and for all Deloitte professionals every two years; • Channels for reporting ethics issues and concerns that emphasize confidentiality and nonretaliation; • Support activities—including communications, workshops and webinars—to facilitate the sharing of best practices among Deloitte member firm ethics teams; • Completion of an ethics survey, a self-assessment questionnaire and other tools (such as guidance for running focus group sessions) to measure the effectiveness of ethics programs across Deloitte; • An annual confirmation by all Deloitte professionals that they have read, understood and are in compliance with the Global Code; and • Detailed review programs to measure and monitor compliance with the global ethics policy and drive improvement in member firm ethics programs over time. Further, Deloitte’s Global Ethics and Talent teams have developed and rolled out a new anti-discrimination and anti-harassment (including sexual harassment) policy and training minimum expectations. Deloitte not only works to address human rights issues within its communities, but also seeks to respond to some of the urgent human rights challenges of our world in a manner commensurate with our ability to effect change within and across regions and borders. Human trafficking Deloitte offers clients insight and potential solutions to combat human trafficking in their operations and works with governments to apply innovative solutions through anti-human trafficking policy and legislation.* Deloitte participates in policy discussions on some of today’s most important socioeconomic challenges, seeking outcomes that serve the public interest. Deloitte Global’s Public Policy program engages meaningfully with policymakers and key influencers to make an impact that reinforces trust and confidence in the capital markets and promotes growth and opportunity for all. Deloitte Global’s public policy program focuses its attention on priority topics shaping the debate, including: advocating for a corporate reporting ecosystem that’s safe, transparent and accountable; preparing UN Global Compact Principle Disclosure GRI Indicator tomorrow’s workforce and labor market for the jobs of the Fourth Industrial Revolution; informing the future of regulation in an era of exponential technological advancement; and supporting a more complete approach to measuring social progress. Please see “Ethics”,“Public policy” sections of the report and the “Global Code” for more details about human rights. *Certain services and relationships described above are not permissible under various independence rules and regulations for certain clients. Labor standards Principle 3: Businesses should uphold Deloitte has formally outlined the responsible business principles we believe in and the commitments 102-8, 102-41, 401-1, 401-3, the freedom of association and the Deloitte has made via a Responsible Business Practices statement. This statement serves to 404-3, 405-1, 405-2, 406-1 effective recognition of the right to align decision-making and activities across Deloitte and addresses a number of areas, including labor. collective bargaining; As described above, the Global Code outlines our ethical commitments as an organization and expectations Principle 4: the elimination of all forms of across the Deloitte organization. Global Code elements directly address labor principles through a number forced and compulsory labour; of provisions including the following: Principle 5: the effective abolition of child Respect, diversity and fair treatment labour; and • We foster a culture and working environment where our people treat each other with respect, courtesy, and fairness, promoting equal opportunity for all. Principle 6: the elimination of • We encourage and value a diverse mix of people, view-points, talents, and experiences. discrimination in respect of employment • We create inclusive working environments that not only address individual needs, but allow our people to and occupation. utilize their unique strengths. • We do not tolerate harassment or unfair discrimination in our working environments. Professional development and support • We invest in our people to develop the professional knowledge and skills necessary for them to effectively perform their roles. • We help our people reach their potential through investments in personal and professional development and support programs. • We provide a safe work environment for our people and expect our clients to do the same. Diversity and inclusion power the workforce of the future To succeed in solving clients’ toughest challenges, Deloitte believes that its workforce must reflect the world around it. During FY2019, Deloitte launched a global gender initiative as part of its long-standing commitment to talent development and building a workforce with the skills to solve the business and societal challenges of the UN Global Compact Principle Disclosure GRI Indicator Fourth Industrial Revolution. As part of the new initiative, Deloitte seeks to attract, retain and increase the representation of women at all levels. We are making conscious efforts to take steps to increase the number of women and underrepresented minorities in our leadership ranks throughout the organization, while recognizing that gender and inclusion efforts are most successful when supported by the right environment, culture and policies. Our strategy includes using data analytics to inform actions, modifying talent processes, setting global standards and providing our people with more development, sponsorship and leadership opportunities. Deloitte was a proud signatory of a letter of support for the Standards of Conduct for Business in Tackling Discrimination against Lesbian, Gay, Bi, Trans and Intersex people (the LGBTI Standards) put forth by the Office of the United Nations High Commissioner for Human Rights. In addition to preparing its people and clients with the skills required for the jobs of the future, Deloitte is committed to helping millions of people around the world find meaningful work in the new economy. By 2030, Deloitte’s global societal impact initiative, WorldClass, aims to empower 50 million people by improving education outcomes, developing job skills and providing access to opportunities. Since launching two years ago, WorldClass has reached approximately 4.7 million people. Responsible supply chain As a leading professional services organization, Deloitte’s responsible supply chain actions are an opportunity to make an impact that matters. In FY2019, social assessment questions were included in vendor proposals submitted to Deloitte Global’s procurement group. Suppliers completing that proposal template are requested to answer questions about policies and processes. This includes questions about labor standards. Please see the “Headcount” and “New hire” sections for measures of Deloitte’s workforce diversity. Further details on Deloitte Global’s Ethics Program are in the Ethics section of this report. See the “Global Code” for more information on respect, diversity, fair treatment, professional development, and support. UN Global Compact Principle Disclosure GRI Indicator Environment Principle 7: Businesses should Climate change, water scarcity, supply chain risks, waste and recycling are challenging the limits of traditional 201-2, 301-1, 301-2, 302-1, support a precautionary approach to processes and technologies and demanding greater attention from business. As a result, environmental 302-4, 303-1, 305-1, 305-2, environmental challenges; sustainability has moved from being a niche area overseen by specialists to becoming a C-suite priority. 305-3, 305-4, 305-5, 308-1 Environmental sustainability is now often a consideration in Deloitte client engagements and is increasingly Principle 8: undertake initiatives a critical component of Deloitte’s own operations, strategic initiatives and senior-level agendas. to promote greater environmental responsibility; and Deloitte has formally outlined the responsible business principles we believe in and the commitments Deloitte has made via a Responsible Business Practices statement. This statement serves to align Principle 9: encourage the decision-making and activities across Deloitte and addresses a number of areas, including the environment. development and diffusion of environmentally friendly technologies. Client-focused capabilities Deloitte’s sustainability service lines continue to grow. They currently include environmental sustainability services related to strategy, resource productivity, risk mitigation, attest services and supply chain. Renewable energy services are also expanding as clients explore innovative supply arrangements. And Deloitte has engaged with clients on a broad range of environmental sustainability topics including energy, water, greenhouse gas emissions, plastics, circular economy and supply chain. Internal initiatives Environmental sustainability innovation and advancements continue to be made within Deloitte’s own operations. For example, upon its opening in July 2018, the new 270,000-square-foot headquarters for Deloitte UK and Deloitte North and South Europe became the largest office in the world to achieve leading certifications for being both an exemplar green building and one designed to enhance the wellbeing of its people. In addition to achieving an “Outstanding” certification from BREEAM, a leading green-building rating system, the new office became the largest WELL Certified™ Gold for “New and Existing Interiors project” in the world. The office earned this distinction based on seven categories of building and operational performance including air, water, light, nourishment, fitness, comfort and mind. Deloitte Belgium’s Mobility@Deloitte provides another example of an initiative aimed at addressing environmental impacts. It was developed based on consultation with subject-matter specialists, focus groups across every business unit and level, and extensive pilot testing. Four multimodal mobility packages were created that allow individuals to choose programs that address their needs by providing incentives to opt for electric company cars and make use of biking, public transportation, telecommuting and other alternatives. Sustainability goals Efforts such as these contribute to the global Deloitte ambition to reduce greenhouse gas building emissions by 36 percent per unit of area, fleet emissions by 11 percent and travel per full time employee by 10 percent by FY2025 based on the FY2017 baseline. The building and fleet emissions components of the goals were crafted following science-based methodology. And furthering Deloitte’s commitment to the environment, UN Global Compact Principle Disclosure GRI Indicator emissions arising from Deloitte air travel during FY2019 are being offset through the purchase of carbon credits that are third-party verified. Senior leaders also engage on the topic of environmental sustainability through the quarterly meetings of the Deloitte Societal Impact Council, a senior leadership group focused on Deloitte’s social impact and responsible business agenda. Membership of the Council is drawn from the Deloitte Global Board of Directors, the Deloitte Global Executive and other senior leaders. During FY2019, the Council was chaired by the Deloitte Global Chairman, underpinning the importance of this agenda. Deloitte is committed to a long-term sustainability journey in which it addresses its own environmental impacts and supports clients as they seek to do the same. Responsible supply chain As a leading professional services organization, Deloitte’s responsible supply chain actions are an opportunity to make a global impact that matters. During FY19 Deloitte developed a Supplier Code of Conduct which is being rolled out in FY20. Further, environmental assessment questions were included in vendor proposals submitted to Deloitte Global’s procurement group. Suppliers completing that proposal template are requested to answer questions about environmental sustainability policies and processes. Greenhouse gas emissions Absolute carbon emissions increased 8 percent in FY2019 as Deloitte's workforce increased by 9 percent from FY2018. Emissions intensity per dollar of revenue increased 3 percent while emissions intensity per full-time equivalent fell by one percent. In FY2019 overall paper use decreased 20 percent from the previous year, while the percent of recycled inputs in paper increased 3 percent. In-depth disclosure of Deloitte’s greenhouse gas emissions, as well as our risks and opportunities related to climate change, can be found in Deloitte Global’s 2019 CDP (formerly Carbon Disclosure Project) Climate Change and Supply Chain response. Please see the Sustainability section of the Global Report for information on Deloitte’s initiatives to manage environmental performance as well as the environmental metrics in the “Metrics” section of the Global Report. UN Global Compact Principle Disclosure GRI Indicator Anti-corruption Principle 10: Businesses should Deloitte has formally outlined the responsible business principles we believe in and the commitments 102-16, 413-2, 205-1, 205-2, work against corruption in all its forms, Deloitte has made via a Responsible Business Practices statement. This statement serves to align 205-3, 415-1 including extortion and bribery. decision-making and activities across Deloitte and addresses a number of areas, including anti-corruption. Anti-corruption commitment We actively support multiple efforts to eradicate corruption throughout the world. Deloitte Global was an early signatory to the United National Global Compact (UNGC) and to the World Economic Forum’s Partnering Against Corruption Initiative (PACI). The Deloitte Global Anti-Corruption team and member firm Anti-Corruption leaders work closely with senior Deloitte leaders to build and enhance a globally consistent anti-corruption program across the Deloitte network, which includes the following elements: • A Deloitte Global anti-corruption policy that includes requirements for member firms’ own anti-corruption programs and addresses matters such as bribery, facilitation payments, political and charitable contributions, and gifts and entertainment; • Anti-corruption training that includes applicable policies, corruption red flags and case scenarios; • Support activities—including communications, workshops and webinars—to facilitate the sharing of leading practices; • Annual member firm anti-corruption self-assessments and other guidance and tools (such as guidance on anti-corruption testing and monitoring) to measure the effectiveness of anti-corruption programs across the Deloitte network; • A globally consistent process to perform anticorruption due diligence on subcontractors, marketplace alliances, vendors and suppliers; • A globally consistent methodology and process for Deloitte member firms to perform corruption risk assessments; • An annual confirmation from each member firm to Deloitte Global that all member firm people have read, understood and agree to comply with the local anti-corruption policy and are not in violation of this policy; and • A review program to assess compliance with Deloitte Global anti-corruption policies and drive continuous improvement in member firm anti-corruption programs. Multilateral initiatives Deloitte plays a role in various external efforts to promote ethical conduct in the business world. These include: • Business and Industry Advisory Committee (BIAC) to the Organization for Economic Corporation and Development. Gerrie Lenting, partner, Deloitte North South Europe, is vice chair of the BIAC task force on anti-bribery and corruption. UN Global Compact Principle Disclosure GRI Indicator • University of Notre Dame Deloitte Center for Ethical Leadership. Members of the advisory board include several Deloitte LLP (US) leaders, including Deloitte LLP Chief Ethics & Compliance Officer Glenn Stastny. • Ethics Research Center. Glenn Stastny is a member of the board of directors. • Center for Professional Responsibility in Business and Society, University of Illinois College of Business. Glenn Stastny is a member of the advisory board. Responsible supply chain As a leading professional services organization, Deloitte’s responsible supply chain actions are an opportunity to make an impact that matters. In FY2019, social assessment questions were included in supplier proposals for the Deloitte Global level. Suppliers completing that proposal template are requested to answer questions about policies and processes. This includes questions about anti-corruption and anti-bribery policies and processes. Please see the “Ethics” section of the Global Report and the “Global Code” for more details about anti-corruption activities. Contact us GlobalReport@deloitte.com Learn more globalreport.deloitte.com Stay connected “Deloitte,” “us,” “we” and “our” refer to one or more of Deloitte Touche Tohmatsu Limited (“DTTL”), its global network of member firms, and their related entities (collectively, the “Deloitte organization”). DTTL (also referred to as “Deloitte Global”) and each of its member firms and related entities are legally separate and independent entities, which cannot obligate or bind each other in respect of third parties. DTTL and each DTTL member firm and related entity is liable only for its own acts and omissions, and not those of each other. DTTL does not provide services to clients. Please see www.deloitte.com/about to learn more. Deloitte is a leading global provider of audit and assurance, consulting, financial advisory, risk advisory, tax and related services. Our global network of member firms and related entities in more than 150 countries and territories (collectively, the “Deloitte organization”) serves four out of five Fortune Global 500® companies. Learn how Deloitte’s approximately 312,000 people make an impact that matters at www.deloitte.com. This communication contains general information only, and none of Deloitte Touche Tohmatsu Limited (“DTTL”), its global network of member firms or their related entities (collectively, the “Deloitte organization”) is, by means of this communication, rendering professional advice or services. Before making any decision or taking any action that may affect your finances or your business, you should consult a qualified professional adviser. No representations, warranties or undertakings (express or implied) are given as to the accuracy or completeness of the information in this communication, and none of DTTL, its member firms, related entities, employees or agents shall be liable or responsible for any loss or damage whatsoever arising directly or indirectly in connection with any person relying on this communication. DTTL and each of its member firms, and their related entities, are legally separate and independent entities. © 2020. For information, contact Deloitte Touche Tohmatsu Limited. 10
