Benetton Group Integrated Report 2019 Benetton Group Integrated Report 2019 Index Letter from the Chairman 5 Highlights 2019 9 Awards and acknowledgements 15 Benetton Group profile 17 Our values 20 Our history 22 Governance 24 Value generated 30 Objectives and initiatives 32 Risk management 42 Our brands 45 United Colors of Benetton 48 The fashion shows at Milan Fashion Week 50 Sisley 52 Sisley’s Cinema collection in Venice 53 A design company 55 Product research 58 S68 Glamour special edition 60 Digital transformation 62 The L.A. pop-up store 64 Ideas in the forefront 66 A people company 69 Our people 72 Human rights 85 The “Naked” photographic project 90 A green company 93 Sustainable materials 96 Benetton on the “wool road” 98 Management of environmental impact 99 Verde Campus 106 Towards a circular economy 107 A numbers company 109 Financial capital 112 Production capital 114 Appendix 117 Methodological notes 118 GRI content index 120 Independent Auditors’ report 129 Letter from the Chairman 6 | Chi siamo Dear Stakeholders, 2019 marked an important milestone in the relaunch of Benetton Group. The Company’s economic-financial indicators show significant recovery and a significant reduction in the losses compared to previous years. These results are even more important because of the complex macroeconomic context in which we operated, without ever compromising our principles and values. Since 1965 we have made a point of promoting social awareness, making our Company more than “just” a fashion company, but a vehicle of values and emotions. Our customers choose Benetton not only for its apparel, but because they totally embrace the brand. We are fully aware that this attitude brings with it great responsibility. In 2019, we adapted our operations to the objectives of the United Nations’ 2030 Agenda for Sustainable Development. The Verde Campus project enabled us to reduce the waste of resources and increase recycling at our Ponzano and Castrette sites. These are important signals, because real change starts at the personal level. As for products, we further focused research on the quality of finishes and raw materials. As evidence of this effort, our Company adheres to some of the most prominent international institutions promoting sustainable fashion, such as the Better Cotton Initiative and the International Wool Trade Organization, for which we also 7 | Letter from the Chiarman hosted the international conference at Castrette in April 2019. In 2019, color – another essential element of our DNA – returned center stage in our collections thanks to our artistic director Jean-Charles de Castelbajac, and was celebrated worldwide in the first United Colors of Benetton fashion show, during the Milan Fashion Week. This positive and recovery-oriented scenario was however impacted in the first months of 2020 by an unexpected variable – the global health crisis triggered by the Covid-19 outbreak – which is currently transforming into an economic crisis, the magnitude of which is difficult to imagine. Many things will change. Maybe even the way we are and behave as human beings. We, on our part, will try to react as best we can. In its long history, Benetton Group has faced and overcome many difficult challenges, taking the necessary steps and always looking to the future. In this case, too, we will remain loyal to our values and close to our store managers-entrepreneurs, who are fundamental to our success. It is in this complicated moment that Massimo Renon has been appointed our new CEO. In the past, he has covered strategic roles in major international groups – particularly in the eyewear industry – which have equipped him with a deep knowledge of manufacturing and distribution cycles. He will lead our Group towards a future of new challenges and great opportunities in a scenario where nothing will be quite the same as before. Luciano Benetton Chairman Benetton Group 8 | Chi siamo Highlights 2019 1148 mln of € of net sales 10 | Highlights 2019 4 468 stores 76 mln garments produced* * Data includes local production of Benetton India Pvt. Ltd. and Benetton Korea Inc. 81 markets 11 | Highlights 2019 25 online markets training hours >39 000 12 | Highlights 2019 84% recycled waste 100% renewable energy on campus 74% 26% employees 7 371 13 | Highlights 2019 58% sustainable cotton 80% natural raw materials 14 | Chi siamo Awards and acknowledgements Award for the 2018 Integrated Report The 2018 Integrated Report of Benetton Group was one of the 5 finalists shortlisted for the Sustainability Report award promoted by the Department of Economic and Management of the University of Pavia in the “large companies” category. Fashion Transparency Index 15 | Awards and acknowledgements According to the Fashion Transparency Index, the analysis published by Fashion Revolution that analyzes the transparency of 200 big brands and apparel retailers, United Colors of Benetton is one of the brands most committed to divulging information about its supply chain. In 2019, we reached a percentage of 44%, two times the global average (21%) in an analysis that measures the implementation of environmental and social policies, supply chain traceability, supplier control and actions on specific themes like waste recycling or gender equality. Universum Awards Also in 2019, Benetton Group was included in Universum’s ranking of “World’s Most Attractive Employers”, a survey which saw the participation of thousands of students from 44 universities and 130 subject areas. Among the different categories in which the Group was mentioned, the Company is present in the Diversity & Inclusion category, where it ranks fifth in Italy, the only one in the fashion industry in the top ten. Best Talent Hunter In December 2019, the Recruiting & Talent Acquisition team received the “Best Company for Employer Branding” award, promoted by the University of Padua. 16 | Chi siamo Benetton Group profile Benetton Group is one of the world's most famous fashion companies thanks to its consolidated style identity, color and quality at affordable prices. Established in 1965 in Ponzano Veneto, in the province of Treviso, Benetton Group operates in the main international markets with two brands, United Colors of Benetton and Sisley. Social commitment has always been part of Benetton Group’s DNA and the Company has made itself the bearer of a universal message that transcends borders, skin color, language and political and religious beliefs. Committed to creating increasingly sustainable products and promoting the development of individuals and their communities, Benetton Group is planning for the future today, with great attention to the environment and transforming society. Our values • Color • Quality • Freedom of expression • Social commitment • Internationality • Culture 18 | Benetton Group profile Risks management • Strategic risks • Execution risks • Financial risks • Legal/compliance risks • External risks Objectives and initiatives • The materiality matrix and the relevant themes • The strategic map: themes, objectives and initiatives • The projects Our history Governance • Board of Directors 19 | Benetton Group profile • Investment Committee • Control and Risk Committee • Human Resources and Remuneration Committee • Organizational Model pursuant to Italian Legislative Decree 231/2001 • GDPR • Sustainability Committee • Benetton Group companies in the world Value generated 20 | Benetton Chi siamo Group profile Our Color The first thing that comes to mind when values thinking of the Benetton Group is color, in all of its expressions. The colorful knits that have revolutionized the world of fashion are a metaphor for a playful and positive approach to life, celebrating our Italian origins. Quality Benetton Group constantly strives to attain the highest level of quality in all of its products, processes and services. This dedication is part of the Italian textile industry’s tradition and – thanks to the passion and dedication of all the Group’s employees – drives all of the Company’s activities. 21 | Benetton Group profile Freedom of expression Internationality Benetton Group is outspoken. We are Benetton Group has always thought globally convinced that our society can only evolve if and not only in relation to business. Our people are provided with the right tools and vision is that of a world in which ethnic, allowed to express their opinions freely. This will result cultural and religious differences are overcome in the in more ideas, greater dialogue and more tolerance, name of global citizenship. also vis-à-vis those who see things differently. Social engagement Culture Producing apparel is not enough. Playing a Since the beginning, Benetton Group has central role in a constantly evolving scenario, opened a dialogue with some of the most Benetton Group considers it necessary to prominent international figures in the take concrete action to promote the development world of culture to bring to the Company new tools of individuals and communities and ensure respect to understand and interpret the contemporary world. for human rights at a global level. Because knowledge is crucial for the success of any enterprise. Our history 1955 Luciano and Giuliana 1962 Benetton starts producing 1965 Benetton Group was Benetton have the knitted sweaters in founded. In the same year, intuition to develop and neutral colors and dyeing the factory designed by sell a colorful, yellow knit, them based on the architects Afra and Tobia a brand new product in orders received. First Scarpa was inaugurated in those days. development of ready to Ponzano, in the province dye production. of Treviso. 1974 Sisley enters the Benetton 1978 Group exports reach 1983 The Group enters Formula Group’s brand portfolio. 60% of production. 1 racing as sponsor of the Tyrrel team. Three years later, after the acquisition of Toleman, the Benetton Formula 22 | Benetton Group profile Limited racing team is born. The team will go on to win, two drivers’ and one constructors’ world championships before being acquired by Renault in 2000. 1989 The iconic green 1991 Colors magazine, 1994 Fabrica, Benetton Group’s United Colors distributed in 40 countries Communications Research of Benetton logo and translated in four Centre, is founded. is born. languages, is launched. 2012 Benetton Group delists 2013 Benetton Group is 2014 The Group is reorganized from the Milan Stock recognized by Greenpeace into three separate entities: Exchange, after also for its commitment one directly focused on delisting from those of to environmental the brands, one dedicated Frankfurt and New York. sustainability. to manufacturing and one engaged in real estate management. 1966 Opening of the Group’s 1969 Opening of the first 1971 Registration of the 012 first store in Belluno. store outside Italy. The brand and development location is Boulevard of the first jacquard St. Germain, Paris. and diamond patterned knitted sweaters. 1985 Benetton ad campaigns 1986 The Group is listed on the 1987 Fondazione Benetton by Oliviero Toscani win Milan Stock Exchange, Studi e Ricerche is the Grand Prix de la followed by the listing established, along with Publicité in France. This on the Frankfurt Stock the International Carlo is the first of a series of Exchange in 1988 and New Scarpa Prize for Gardens. awards that, together with York Stock Exchange in 23 | Benetton Group profile criticism and censorships, 1989. fuel debate in many countries around the world. 1995 The Undercolors 2006 Benetton Group celebrates 2007 Launch of the Ponzano brand is born. its 40th anniversary with an Children Center for the exhibition and a show at the children of both Benetton Pompidou Centre in Paris. Group employees and families of the surrounding area. 2015 The partial demerger 2016 In April, Benetton Group 2019 United Colors of Benetton of Benetton Group S.r.l. S.r.l. acquires full control launches its first show is accomplished after of Benetton Korea Inc. at Milan Fashion Week completion of the refocus to present the Rainbow and relaunch plan. Machine collection by its new artistic director JeanCharles de Castelbajac. Governance Governance Overview of the Company’s Governance as of April 23, 2020. Benetton S.r.l. (Single shareholder) Independent Board of Statutory Auditors Auditors Ernst & Young S.p.A. Investment Human Resources Committee and Remuneration Committee 24 | Benetton Group profile Board of Directors Control and Risk Committee Independent Board of Statutory Auditors Auditors Ernst & Young S.p.A. Benetton Group S.r.l. Monitoring Body Functions: Consultive Due diligence Board Sustainability Proposals Assistance of Directors Committee Composition of corporate bodies C Chairman SA Standing Auditor Executive at April 23, 2020 CEO Chief Executive Officer AA Alternate Auditor Non-Executive (1) General Counsel Independent Non-Executive (2) Head of Member Internal Audit Board of Directors Office Age Investment Control Human Resources Monitoring Body of Benetton S.r.l. Committee and Risk and Remuneration (D.Lgs. 231/2001) Committee Committee Luciano Benetton C >70 Massimo Renon CEO < 50 Ugo Giorcelli 51-69 Christian Benetton < 50 Franca Bertagnin Benetton 51-69 Ermanno Boffa 51-69 Fabio Buttignon 51-69 C C Christian Coco < 50 25 | Benetton Group profile Nicola Pelà 51-69 C Ugo Fonzar C Andrea Pezzangora Roberto Taiariol Board of Statutory Auditors Angelo Casò C Antonio Cortellazzo SA Giorgio Grosso SA Gianluca Pivato AA Graziano Gianmichele Visentin AA Massimo Renon Chief Executive Officer Holding a degree in Political Science with a specialization in Business Management from Bocconi University and Columbia University in New York, Massimo Renon began his career at Giacomelli Sport, then moved to Luxottica, where he acquired important international experience. In 2010 he joined Ferrari, then Safilo and later Kering Group, where he participated in the establishment and startup of the Eyewear division. From 2017 to April 2020 he was CEO of Marcolin Group. Board of Directors • a ssist the Board of Directors in evaluating the The Board of Directors is responsible for managing adequacy, efficacy and effective functioning of the operations. Among other things, it examines and system of internal controls, which it oversees; approves: • p rovide the Board of Directors with indications • guidelines for the Group’s operations; and information on compliance with corporate • proposals concerning organization and corporate governance rules; governance; • a ssess, together with the Chief Financial Officer • general guidelines regarding the management and the Independent Auditors, the adequacy of the of human resources; accounting standards adopted and their consistency • proposals for the re-organization of the Company’s for the purposes of preparing consolidated financial structure; statements; • result of operations; • v erify, with the assistance of the Head of Internal • extraordinary corporate actions; Audit, the process that generates the financial • annual budgets and quarterly, half-yearly and annual reporting data; financial results. •m  onitor the effectiveness of the auditing process and assess the results published in the Independent Investment Committee Auditors’ report and the opinion letter; The Investment Committee serves in a due diligence, • r eceive the annual report from the Head of Internal 26 | Benetton Group profile advisory and/or recommendation-making capacity in Audit on the application of the “Organization and support of the Board of Directors with regard to: Management Model” – pursuant to Italian Legislative • specific investment projects, assessing their Decree 231/2001, which was adopted by the adherence to/alignment with the Group’s strategic Company and also includes the Code of Ethics – and guidelines, their profitability targets and financial evaluate whether to present the Board of Directors sustainability; with recommendations for updating and/or amending • Company procedures regarding investments and such model and its method of application; significant transactions. • a ssess and express an opinion in advance and as necessary requirement prior to confirming the In general, the Committee monitors the appointment, on all auditing and non-auditing services implementation of the approved investment programs provided by the Independent Auditors; by overseeing their execution in terms of costs • a ssess and verify the independence of the incurred and actual return on investment (post-audit), Independent Auditors. analyzing the main criticalities. Human Resources and Remuneration Control and Risk Committee Committee The Control and Risk Committee, whose members The Human Resources and Remuneration have suitable experience in accounting and ﬁnance, Committee serves in a due diligence, advisory and/or has the following main tasks: recommendation-making capacity in support of the • a ssist the Board of Directors in defining the Board of Directors and in particular: guidelines of the internal controls and in determining • submits proposals on the overall remuneration of the criteria for deciding whether the risks faced by the Chairman, directors and senior managers of the the Company and its subsidiaries are compatible Company and the Group; with good and sound management practices. At the • examines performance targets and incentive plans request of the Executive Chairman, it expresses for employees of the Company and the Group; opinions on specific issues concerning the • evaluates proposals regarding: composition criteria identification of the principal business risks; and skills profiles of the managers identified as components of management and control bodies • promoting the effective and continuous integration in strategically important subsidiaries; policies for of sustainability initiatives into business activities and the strategic development of human resources and supporting the work of the Sustainability Director; recruitment and appointment of senior managers • s tandardizing all sustainability activities; of the Company and the Group. • promoting dialogue with internal and external stakeholders on sustainability issues; Organizational Model pursuant to • examining and periodically reviewing corporate Italian Legislative Decree 231/2001 sustainability implementation tools – starting The current Organization, Management and Control with the Code of Conduct for Manufacturers Model adopted by resolution of the Board of and its implementation procedures – also in light Directors on March 1, 2016, to replace the one of possible risks related to Company and brand approved in 2008, is composed of a general part reputation; and numerous special parts. • providing the Board of Directors with a constant The Code of Ethics approved by the Company is flow of information and indications regarding the treated as an integral part of the Model. Under application of the corporate sustainability strategy its Code of Ethics, the Group has adopted the and its tools; International Labor Standards (ILS) contained in the • overseeing activities related to integrated reporting fundamental conventions of the International Labor and the disclosure of KPIs and relevant information 27 | Benetton Group profile Organization (ILO). on environmental and social issues. GDPR The Committee members are listed here below: In 2018, with the enforcement of the European Massimo Renon Chief Executive Officer General Data Protection Regulation 2016/679 (known Ugo Giorcelli Chief Staff Officer as GDPR), the Company set up a new Privacy function, Gianni Moscatelli Human Resources headed by Mauro Menardo as Data Protection Officer, & Organization Officer assisted by a multidisciplinary team. Andrea Piras Product, Sourcing & Operations Officer Roberto Taiariol Internal Audit & Sustainability Officer The new function, responsible for personal data Carlo Tunioli CEO Fabrica monitoring, assessment and processing, enables Benetton Group S.r.l. to ensure its employees, consumers and, in general, stakeholders correct personal data protection in the performance of their activities, so that data is always processed in compliance with the applicable national and European regulations in the matter. Sustainability Committee The Sustainability Committee – set up by Board of Directors in 2015 – deﬁnes and oversees Benetton Group’s sustainability strategy. The establishment of this Committee is further evidence of the Company’s commitment, at all levels, to becoming an agent of social change through its initiatives. The objectives of Benetton Group’s Sustainability Committee include: Benetton Group companies in the world Benetton Group S.r.l. Ponzano Veneto (Treviso Italia) 100% 100% 100% IT RETAIL ITALIA NETWORK S.r.l. CH BEN-MODE A.G. GR BENETTON HELLAS AGENCY Milan (Italy) Zurich (Switzerland) OF CLOTHING E.P.E. Tavros (Greece) 100% 100% 100% IT BENETTON SERVIZI S.r.l. DK BENETTON DENMARK A.p.S. TR BENETTON GIYIM SANAYI Ponzano Veneto (Italy) Copenhagen (Denmark) VE TICARET A.S. Istanbul (Turkey) 100% 100% 100% IT FABRICA S.r.l. IE BENETTON AGENCY IRELAND Ltd. CY SABBIA Ltd. Ponzano Veneto (Italy) Dublin (Ireland) Nicosia (Cyprus) 100% 100% 100% IT PONZANO CHILDREN S.r.l. FR BENETTON FRANCE IR BENETTON PARS P.J.S.C. Ponzano Veneto (Italy) COMMERCIAL S.A.S. Tehran (Iran) Paris (France) 100% 100% IT VILLA MINELLI PL BENETTON RETAIL POLAND Sp. z o.o. SOCIETÀ AGRICOLA a r.l. Varsaw (Poland) Ponzano Veneto (Italy) UK BENETTON RETAIL UK BE BENETTON GROUP S.r.l. 28 | Benetton Group profile SUBSIDIARIES London (United Kingdom) BELGIUM BRANCH Brussels (Belgium) FI BENETTON GROUP S.r.l. IE BENETTON GROUP S.r.l. FR BENETTON GROUP S.r.l. FINNISH BRANCH IRISH BRANCH SUCCURSALE EN FRANCE Azets (Finland) Dublin (Ireland) Paris (France) SE BENETTON GROUP S.r.l. ITALY NL BENETTON GROUP S.r.l. MC BENETTON GROUP S.r.l. SWEDISH FILIAL DUTCH BRANCH SUCCURSALE A MONACO Malmö (Sweden) Breda (The Netherlands) Principauté de Monaco US Italy Rest of Europe MX Rest of the world 100% 100% 100% TN BENETTON DE COMMERCE TW BENETTON TRADING TAIWAN Ltd. US BENETTON TRADING USA Inc. INTERNATIONAL TUNISIE S.à r.l. Taipei (Taiwan) Miami (USA) Sahline (Tunisia) 100% 100% 100% TN BENETTON COMMERCIALE JP BENETTON JAPAN Co. Ltd. MX BENETTON MEXICANA S.A. de C.V. TUNISIE S.à r.l. Tokyo (Japan) Mexico City (Mexico) Sousse (Tunisia) 100% 100% 100% IN BENETTON INDIA Pvt. Ltd. KR BENETTON KOREA Inc. MX BENETTON SERVICES S.A. de C.V. Gurugram (India) Seoul (South Korea) Mexico City (Mexico) 100% 100% 100% CN BENETTON ASIA PACIFIC Ltd. RU BENETTON RUSSIA O.O.O. MX BENETTON SERVICES II S.A. de C.V. Hong Kong (China) Moscow (Russia) Mexico City (Mexico) 100% 100% CN SHANGHAI BENETTON TRADING RU KAZAN REAL ESTATE O.O.O. COMPANY Ltd. Moscow (Russia) Shanghai (China) ES BENETTON RETAIL AT BENETTON GROUP S.r.l. SI BENETTON GROUP S.r.l. 29 | Benetton Group profile SUCURSAL EN ESPAÑA ZWEIGNIEDERLASSUNG ÖSTERREICH PODRUZNICA LJUBLJANA Barcelona (Spain) Vienna (Austria) Ljubljana (Slovenia) PT BENETTON GROUP S.r.l. CZ BENETTON GROUP S.r.l. HR BENETTON GROUP S.r.l. SUCURSAL EM PORTUGAL CZECH BRANCH ODŠTĚPNÝ ZÁVOD PODRUZNICA U RIJECI GLAVNA Porto (Portugal) Prague (Czech Republic) PODRUZNICA Rijeka (Croatia) DE BENETTON GROUP S.r.l. HU BENETTON GROUP S.r.l. HUNGARIAN IR BENETTON GROUP S.r.l. GERMAN BRANCH BRANCH MAGYARORSZÁGI FIÓKTELEPE FOREIGN BRANCH OFFICE Frankfurt am Main (Germany) Budapest (Hungary) Tehran (Iran) FI SE DK RU UK PL IE BE NL DE IE CZ FR AT CH HU FR MC SI HR PT ES IT GR TR KR CN CY JP TN IR IR IN TW Value generated Inputs Social and relational Capital (Brand value) • Long-term relationships with the main stakeholders • Collaborating with the main local and global institutions and organizations (UN, ILO, Accord, etc.) • Strong identity values Human Capital • Promoting and developing people • Consolidating and expanding strong skills for the creation of quality and innovative clothing • Commercial partnerships Innovation for production and distribution 30 | Benetton Group profile Production Capital • Widespread network of direct and indirect stores • Integrated management of all phases of the production cycle Customer Our people centricity Financial Capital • Constantly investing to expand the Company’s assets Sustainability Natural Capital D • Using natural resources in a responsible way IGIT A L TR AN SF OR MA TIO Intellectual N Capital • Designing attractive and recognizable collections • Effective Company processes through continued focus on innovation and results • Research projects supporting the Company in updating its tools and anticipating consumer changes To carry out its business activities, Benetton Group transforms into outputs a series of tangible and intangible resources (capital), which it accesses directly (through ownership) or indirectly (through trade relations, partnerships, purchases). The result of transforming resources into outputs is the generation of positive and negative outcomes that can create and/or absorb value. Outputs 2019 Outcome Social and relational Product Capital We have taken a decisive turn (Brand value) for the collections of our brands, • Sampark Project: 1 830 rehabilitated girls which includes a consolidation in the use of natural raw materials were included in educational programs and a renewed focus on the quality or in sustainable social programs of the garments and style, with the first • 350 social audits carried out along the supply chain collections designed by Jean-Charles de Castelbajac for United Colors of Benetton. + Company reputation Brand We continued the repositioning of our brands. United Colors of Benetton focuses on affordable fashion, while Sisley Human consolidated its contemporary identity Capital to move into the Bridge Premium segment • 2 500 training hours dedicated of the market. to the omnichannel project • “Best Company for Employer Branding” award promoted by the University of Padua and received Stores by the Recruiting & Talent Acquisition team We continued the implementation of Sisley’s Rich&Raw store model. + Attention to people and opening As for United Colors of Benetton, to new generations we introduced the Light Colors concept, 31 | Benetton Group profile for light and fast openings, and continued with the implementation of the London concept, focused on the brand Production experience. Capital • 68 refurbished stores Logistics • Light Colors concept development We continued our commitment to ensuring logistics services with reduced environmental + Value of Company assets impact and almost customized to satisfy sales needs through the implementation of solutions such as intermodal transportation, automatic re-sorting, prompt product-to-store allocation and reverse logistics. Distribution Financial In 2019, United Colors of Benetton’s Capital retail distribution channel accounted for approximately half of total sales. • Economic value generated: Euro1 190 million In addition, we recorded significant • Economic value distributed: Euro1 125 million growth in sales volumes on our e-commerce channels. + Distribution of economic value to stakeholders Purchasing We continued with the omnichannel implementation, which involves the Natural end consumer in a global experience, Capital breaking down the boundaries • > 90% wet process test results published between analog and digital • 90% reduction in CO2 emissions thanks distribution channels. to use of train/road transport for imports T of goods from China Customers EN We consolidated our existing target and developed communication lines M – Negative environment impacts and campaigns for United Colors N of Benetton, to reach out to O the millennials target. IR V Intellectual N Capital E • Involvement of 134 stores L in the Omnichannel project A N • Dress safe T ER + Product innovation and EX state-of-the-art in communication Objectives and initiatives In September 2015, the United Nations approved the 2030 Global Agenda for Sustainable Development and its 17 Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs). The implementation of this agenda requires nations, industries, businesses, ﬁnancial institutions, NGOs and civil society to redirect their programs and plans towards these goals. 32 | Benetton Group profile Benetton Group has decided to do its part to achieve these goals. In setting out its charter of commitments for the coming years, the Group chose to associate its actions with the SDGs closest to its core business and strategic action area. SDG 5 Gender equality Gender equality is a necessary foundation for a peaceful, prosperous and more sustainable world for everyone. For this reason, Benetton Group has launched projects and initiatives designed to support the emancipation and empowerment of women around the world. SDG 8 Decent work and economic growth Benetton Group aims to reach higher economic productivity standards through diversification and technological progress, relying on development policies that support production activities, creativity and innovation by promoting a healthy and safe working environment for all workers. SDG 12 Responsible consumption and production 33 | Benetton Group profile Benetton Group leads the way in the global commitment to end the use of dangerous chemicals throughout the textile sector by 2020. The Company also implements policies for the sustainable management and the efﬁcient use of resources and energy, as well as for the reduction of waste, also through recycling and reuse, where possible. SDG 13 Climate action The Group’s contribution to combating climate change involves the implementation of initiatives to reduce energy consumption and climate-altering gas emissions, as well as reducing the environmental impact connected with its logistics activities and the distribution of its products. SDG 17 Partnership for the goals A successful Sustainable Development Agenda requires partnerships – built upon principles and values, a shared vision, and shared goals – that put people and the planet first. Benetton Group also works towards this goal, developing partnerships that can contribute to the achievement of the sustainable development goals. The materiality matrix and the relevant themes The degree of detail with which the relevant topics within the Report are treated reflects the results of the materiality assessment. The materiality assessment is a process aimed at identifying, assessing and prioritizing the most significant issues from both the Company’s point of view and that of its stakeholders. As envisaged by the GRI Standards, material topics are identified by considering the importance of the impacts of business activities both within and outside the reporting perimeter, meaning throughout the entire value chain of Benetton Group. The process of identification of the material items was updated in 2018 with a view to reflecting the changes applied to the Group’s new governance, the priorities, the strategic orientations and the changes in the external context. In 2019, the material issues identified the previous year were confirmed, reflecting the Group’s re-launch strategy and objectives over the three-year period, as well as the international context. In terms of procedures, the necessary inputs were collected on the most relevant issues for the purpose of confirming and strengthening data collection and sustainability reporting in this Report. In particular, the first phase of the process of definition As regards the relevance for Benetton Group the of the materiality perimeter included the identification following factors were considered: of the relevant issues based on the following elements: • Company commitment and policies concerning each • media analysis aimed at mapping media coverage and topic; 34 | Benetton Group profile public interest in each topic; • the impact of each topic on the Company’s capital as • benchmark analysis of the topics covered by major identified by the framework <IR> (financial, companies operating in the same sector as Benetton manufactured, intellectual, human, natural, social and Group; relationship capital). • analysis of the main sector documents, sustainability indexes, documents and reports of the most relevant The identified topics were then submitted to and influential non-governmental organizations and the stakeholders for their evaluation through a policy makers, and the main global stock exchanges in questionnaire administered to employees and end order to identify the main sustainability trends; consumers and each item was analyzed based on the • mapping of priorities and strategic business relevant importance for the stakeholder category objectives. considered. With regard to the importance for stakeholders, The identified issues were then prioritized through the the specific relevance of the different topics for the direct involvement of the management, with a view to sector in which Benetton Group operates has also giving greater importance to aspects that can positively been considered. or negatively affect the ability of the organization to provide a vision and create value. Once the issues had been prioritized for stakeholders and the Company management, data were consolidated, so as to obtain the materiality matrix which led to the definition of the contents for the Integrated Report. High Consumer experience and product quality Respect of human rights of workers Product safety Environmental compliance Health and safety in the workplace Relevance for stakeholders Polluting chemicals Responsible raw material Responsible supply procurement chain management Management and development of human resources Innovation Relations with local communities Diversity and equal 35 | Benetton Group profile opportunity Climate change and energy efficiency Brand protection Leadership continuity and Company’s governance stability Fight against Responsible and transparent corruption Water consumption communication Consolidation of the business model Digital transformation and profitability Packaging Circular economy Low Consumer privacy Multi-channel strategy and focus on strategic markets Low Relevance for Benetton High The material topics were then cross-checked against As for the material aspects outside of Benetton the aspects defined by the GRI Standards, as set out in Group, but currently not reported, the Company will the following representation. This representation also focus its attention in coming years on implementing indicates the perimeter of each aspect and any possible specific activities designed to gradually extend the limitation involving failure to extend reporting to the scope of disclosure. perimeter outside the organization. GRI material aspects: reporting perimeter and disclosures Economic performance Occupational Materials Diversity Emissions Training Effluents Health and and equal and waste Procurement practices Safety opportunity GRI standard material aspects Supplier environmental Local Non assessment discrimination communities Employment Freedom of Labor/management relations association Supplier social assessment Child labor Customer health and safety Forced or 36 | Benetton Group profile compulsory Marketing and product labor labelling Socioeconomic compliance Human rights assessment Environmental compliance * Perimeter Group Suppliers external internal Logistics Indirect POS *D  isclosure partially extended to directly operated stores and Italian offices, and some associated companies. Extended Partially extended Not extended Our stakeholders Benetton employees have been periodically involved in Taking the areas of Company activity into account, sustainability initiatives also through a periodic newsletter Benetton Group has mapped its stakeholders, dividing that summarizes in “bullet points” the Company’s them into: attention to its people and the environment. • internal: people that are part of the Company; • external: people that work along the Group’s value Benetton Group’s commitment to building solid creation chain or that are indirectly influenced/affected relationships with its stakeholders also includes by the Company’s activities. participation in specific working groups promoted by Following this exercise, 30 relevant categories of the Sustainable Apparel Coalition (SAC) and Zero stakeholders were identified, which, through dedicated Discharge of Hazardous Chemicals (ZDHC), whose aim interviews and workshops with the main Company is to identify standard processes and common solutions functions, were subsequently prioritized on the basis of: to make the textile sector more sustainable, while • their dependence on Benetton; minimizing the negative impact on the environment and • their influence on Benetton. creating a positive social impact on communities. In April 2019, on the occasion of the 88th annual Benetton Group stakeholders Congress of the International Wool Textile Organisation, Benetton hosted both the conference and its Consumers participants, giving concrete proof of its commitment to 37 | Benetton Group profile Exte sustainability and transparency of the wool supply chain Suppliers rna lS ta and contributing to building a dialogue on important rs current issues, such as recycling, yarn quality research Unions rs lde lde ho and traceability. ke Internal Stak In addition, during the year Benetton Group carried out eh an ongoing legislation monitoring activity with the aim Communities Colleagues o Shareholders Associations of identifying issues potentially subject to regulation, institutional dynamics and movements of opinion, thus Other Workers’ clothing brands unions Media enabling it to interpret the political, institutional and social context in which the Company operates. NGOs Regulatory bodies The main aspects subject to monitoring in 2019 Business Universities regarded the following areas: Partners • human rights; • freedom of association; In 2019, Benetton Group confirmed a number of • environment and product life cycle; stakeholder engagement activities launched in the • product-related policies (toxic substances, previous year. consumer health); In particular, the “Internal Communication” project, • animal welfare; designed to reinforce the Group’s communication • supply chain and stakeholder engagement; and increase the level of knowledge of all Benetton • ethics in business; employees, was further pursued with the implementation • communication; of 20 “KNIT points”, monitors installed in the • consumer rights. headquarters of Ponzano and Castrette, displaying key content regarding the life of the Company. Strategic maps: themes, objectives and initiatives Respect of workers’ human rights Strategic initiatives Increased attention to human rights Specific policies on topics regarding human rights Specific Objectives CSR audit programs Respect in the implementation of the Code of Conduct along the supply chain Extension of the perimeter in the testing phase of the Higg Index social module Internal educational programs on topics regarding Training program dedicated to internal employees human rights and auditing activities along the 38 | Benetton Group profile supply chain External training on human rights Drafting of Guidelines and design of training activities Product safety Strategic initiatives Product compliance Increased number of substances monitored Specific Objectives Responsible product design Internal training on product safety Polluting chemicals Strategic initiatives From chemicals to water: a commitment Progress and elimination of 11 groups of substances Specific Objectives shared with Greenpeace and ZDHC banned after the commitment with Greenpeace Education: training activities for suppliers and Capacity building, internal personnel training on topics awareness raising activities targeting collaborators relating to the Detox Programme (ZDHC & SAC) Connection: search for scalable solutions Monitoring and follow-up of the wet process for the industry non-conformities measured against the ZDHC and Detox Programme requirements 39 | Benetton Group profile Ongoing improvement: from the audit Adoption of ZDHC and MRSL by the wet protocol to transparent management processes and control of the level of conformity of the Chemical Inventory List Consumer experience and product quality Strategic initiatives Improvement of the quality performance B-Long Project Specific Objectives of our products Valuation of the level of customer satisfaction in relation to product quality aspects Increased customer engagement Development of a single customer data repository Launch of a new loyalty program Initiatives targeted to the socio-environmental context Product personalization The projects 2 17 1 15 22 23 21 14 24 20 11 13 25 12 10 19 18 7 9 27 16 26 40 | Benetton Group profile 6 5 28 8 3 STARTED 4 ON GOI NG FULL Y I MP LEMENTED A design company A people company A green company A design company Product research Digital transformation 1. Dress Safe 3. Omnichannel 2. Product safety testing 4. Content Factory A people company Our people Human rights 5. The International HR Family 12. CSR Audit Program 6. Benetton for You 13. SAC Higg Index Factory Social 7. Zero Injury Objective Labour Module 8. United by Color 14. Accord on Fire and Building Safety 9. Working@Retail 15. Female empowerment in India 10. People Development 11. HR Digital Transformation 41 | Benetton Group profile A green company 21. SAC Higg Index Factory Sustainable materials Environmental Module 16. Sustainable cotton 22. Sustainable logistics 17. Responsible Down Standard 23. Energy efficiency 18. Materials from recycling 24. Green Energy and recovery 25. Verde Campus 26. Green Fridays Management of environmental impacts Towards a circular economy 19. Detox Program 27. B-Long 20. ZDHC roadmap 28. B-Care commitment Social and relational Natural Financial capital (Brand value) capital capital Intellectual Production Human capital capital capital Risk management Benetton Group focuses the utmost attention on risk control and believes it is fundamental to assess, both beforehand and on an ongoing basis, the level of risk associated with strategic objectives for the creation of sustainable value. In 2016, a new Risk Assessment process was carried out to identify, update and manage internal and external risks, as well as to identify corrective measures aimed at lowering the residual risk level to values regarded as acceptable. Strategic risks incorrect use of systems; unlawful behavior connected These are risks that could threaten the Company’s with fraudulent conduct; legal risks; inappropriate current competitive position and the pursuit of its conduct with customers and suppliers that could strategic objectives. compromise the ability to meet strategic objectives. Brand strategy Business organization Risks connected with the United Colors of Benetton The staff’s resistance to change could limit or slow brand repositioning strategy. Incorrect timing and down the business transformation process taking place development could result in losing current consumers in the Company. Other risks include the development prior to acquiring new customers. of inadequate organizational structures and the inability 42 | Benetton Group profile to attract and retain talented people. Distribution channels Risks deriving from the failure to meet new store Product and product quality opening goals as well as the uncontrolled growth of The Group’s inability to identify the tastes of the online market (e-tailers in particular), which may consumers and offer them products that satisfy create conﬂicts with the Company’s other strategic their needs in terms of quality (considering the objectives, with potential negative effects also on characteristics of the fabrics and materials used brand positioning. and the fit). Supply chain Time-to-market The ability of the supply chain to respect the delivery An overly long time-to-market may prevent the times of ﬁnished products established by the business Company from quickly following market trends with calendar can impact global margins. subsequent loss of sales opportunities. Country strategy and market presence Business interruption of the logistics platform in India and Korea Natural disasters may result in interruption of the The entry of international brands in the Indian and logistics platform of Castrette, the hub handling most Korean markets, which are very important to Benetton, of the distribution flows. requires the delicate transition of the content of the United Colors of Benetton brand collection towards Cybersecurity more global styles compared with the current ones, IT systems are exposed to threats that may exploit which have a strong local inﬂuence. vulnerabilities and lead to attacks aimed at accessing data or undermining the functionality or availability Execution risks of the services provided. Often the security of the The risks of losses inherent in the Company’s data stored in terms of availability, confidentiality and operations, deriving from: human error; the incorrect integrity depends on the efficient operation of the IT functioning of the organization and internal processes; system. Corporate Social Responsibility Internal control system Mismanagement of Corporate Social Responsibility Changes or misalignments in the development and issues could cause serious reputational damage. roll-out of the internal control system in the Group’s subsidiaries could result in the inconsistency and/ Covid-19 or unavailability of data to support decision-making The Covid-19 pandemic could bring about significant processes. changes in consumer behavior and needs, with impacts that cannot yet be assessed on business models and External risks the socioeconomic context. These risks concern the effects of external events that may impact negatively on the Group’s activities. Financial risks This is the risk category most immediately perceived Social and political instability of some nations by businesses, also thanks to the implementation of Delays in the regular delivery of ﬁnished goods due the International Accounting Standard (IAS) and the to political instability in some of the countries where requests for additional disclosures in ﬁnancial reports the Company’s suppliers are located. deriving from national civil law. Financial risks include those connected with exchange rates, interest rates, Climate variations counterparties and liquidity risk. The most keenly felt The Group’s business is to some extent sensitive to risk is that relative to foreign exchange transactions the weather. For example, an excessively mild winter 43 | Benetton Group profile as the Group generates significant sales volumes may lead to lower sales of higher-margin products, denominated in Euro and considerable purchase with a negative effect on the Company’s economic volumes denominated in US dollars. results and ﬁnancial position. Legal/compliance risks Compliance risk is the risk deriving from the failure to comply with laws, regulations and internal rules. This can result in negative effects including ﬁnes, penalties, economic losses and, in more serious cases, damage to the Company’s reputation with subsequent losses, requests for compensation, damage to the Company’s image, etc. Company procedures The possible inadequacy of Company procedures designed to guarantee respect for the main Italian and international regulations to which the Group is subject. Also of particular relevance are problems connected with security, antitrust and privacy regulations. Fiscal compliance The Group’s international reach exposes it to various tax obligations. The evolution of related regulations may expose the Group to the risk of default. 44 | Chi siamo Our brands United Colors of Benetton and Sisley: two fashion brands that together express dedication and attention to quality, the two key pillars of Benetton Group. For decades United Colors of Benetton has been synonymous worldwide with knitwear, vivid colors and social commitment. Today, the Group is building on its global reputation to consolidate its standing as an ambassador of accessible fashion. Sisley is a strongly contemporary brand, always in line with current trends, strengthening its position as an interpreter of urban lifestyle for a niche of consumers looking for affordable fashion products. United Colors of Benetton • Collections • Stores • Experience • Undercolors • Focus: The fashion shows at Milan 46 | Our brands Fashion Week 47 | Our brands Sisley • Collections • Stores • Experience • Focus: Sisley’s Cinema collection in Venice United Colors of Benetton United Colors of Benetton is the lifestyle brand that celebrates freedom of expression, bringing joy and happiness to people. True to its DNA composed of knits and colors, it designs and renews Italian casualwear. Today, its target consumers are adult men and women, as well as boys and girls aged from 0 to 12. The colorful United Colors of Benetton knits are a synonym of optimism, diversity and creativity for consumers of every age bracket as demonstrated by the level of popularity of the brand all over the world. The kids’ collections account for over 40% of total sales. They are designed by a dedicated creative team and presented to the commercial network through specific events. United Colors of Benetton’s objective for the coming years is to regain its leadership in Italian-style knitwear and casualwear, retaining its consumer targets while trying to attract new consumers, namely men and women in the 25-35 age bracket. Collections a bridge between Fashion items and Basics. The United Colors of Benetton collections feature Volume Driver level includes items characterized colorful, comfortable, informal, high quality and by contemporary components and details, in solid timeless garments for everyday use, suitable for work, colors or neutral patterns. In the year, the Group school and leisure time. also recorded an increase in the use of licenses, with Snoopy and Popeye becoming ambassadors United Colors of Benetton key items are knits, polo of sustainability for United Colors of Benetton, 48 | Our brands shirts, t-shirts and sweaters, but the collections also with a view to promoting a widespread emphasis include shirts, jeans, dresses, knit accessories, skirts, on the development of products with a reduced trousers, jackets and outerwear. In addition, a broad environmental impact. range of accessories are offered: handbags, shoes, sunglasses, watches, fragrances and luggage. In 2020, the brand repositioning In 2019, the Group updated the composition of its in terms of affordable fashion collections, adding an intermediate level that creates will continue through the rationalization of the collections and a consolidation in prices. Colletion new structure Functionality Keypoints Price Fashion Products with a high These products generate Medium-high prices fashion content, in line with averagely low volumes and market trends. All in tune come with a concentrated with the brand DNA. color chart. They contribute to increasing the average price slip. Volume Products with a high These are essentials to Medium-entry prices driver commercial content in ensure volumes and meet support of the themes of the market needs. In support season. Representing a bridge of fashion themes, they from basic to fashion, these generate medium-high sales. products can be defined as modern basics. Basic Versatile and functional Partially restyled when Medium-low prices products, slightly restyled necessary, while iconic from season to season or products are maintained. carry over items. These products generate high sales volumes. Stores relations with hundreds of millions of consumers the Today, the distribution network of United Colors world over. These were communication campaigns, of Benetton includes nearly 4 500 stores. in-store initiatives and ongoing dialogue on social media as well as two exclusive fashion shows that drew the In 2019, we implemented the London concept, attention of the world of fashion and beyond. launched in 2018, in several Italian and foreign locations, including Oslo and Düsseldorf. Developed to be a true temple of knitwear, the London store combines In 2020, we will launch Casa Italian-style interior design, high-tech content, attention Benetton, the new United to sustainable materials and a focus on the consumer’s Colors of Benetton collection shopping experience. that includes home textiles, tableware and kitchen utensils, In 2019, we also launched the Light Colors concept, developed by integrating the conceived by Benetton's Retail Design department in brand’s multicolored style collaboration with architect Tobia Scarpa. Light Colors with sustainability-oriented is an agile and lean store concept, with an emphasis on materials and processes. light, developed to allow a quick and flexible commercial roll out. In 2019, this new store design was rolled out in the Italian cities of Novara, Rome, Palermo, Faenza, Undercolors Naples and Trapani, as well as in international locations Undercolors of Benetton is Benetton Group’s brand like Istanbul, Bangalore and Deauville. translating the colorful, positive and casual personality 49 | Our brands of United Colors of Benetton across product In 2019 United Colors of Benetton also increased its categories such as underwear, nightwear, beachwear presence in the world’s most prestigious department and coordinated accessories for all consumers. stores, including Printemps in Paris and Westfield in London, along with a pop-up store at Santa Monica First introduced in 1995, Undercolors offers a range Place in Los Angeles. of products characterized by comfort and quality of raw materials and treatments. In recent years, the focus has been on research and optimization of In 2020, two new United materials of natural, organic and recycled origin. Colors of Benetton stores will be opened in Barcelona, on Currently, 60% of Undercolors’ turnover is generated Avenida Diagonal and Paseo by over 300 specialized single-brand stores and 40% de Gracia. by corners in the main United Colors of Benetton stores in Italy and Europe. Experience Celebrating diversity, eliminating barriers, fighting against stereotypes, promoting tolerance and freedom of thought and expression. Those entering the universe of United Colors of Benetton do it not only for the colors and the quality of the garments, but also to share an entire set of recognized values, communicated by a consistent and immediately recognizable brand. In 2019, we also launched a series of initiatives and projects designed to establish strong and long lasting The fashion shows at Milan Fashion Week In February 2019, for the first time ever, United Colors of Benetton presented a collection at Milan Fashion Week: The Rainbow Machine. The rainbow is a common code between Luciano Benetton and Jean-Charles de Castelbajac, who developed a collection based on primary colors: yellow, red, green, blue and a few touches of black. 50 | Focus The show was staged in a setting composed of knitting machines and huge close-ups of products photographed by Oliviero Toscani, a tribute to Benetton’s long-time industrial tradition, expertise and unique know-how in the world. In the background, an industrial soundtrack specifically composed by Michel Gaubert, one of the world’s most renowned sound designers. The catwalk experiment was replicated in September with The Color Wave, a fashion show designed to present United Colors of Benetton’s Spring Summer 2020 collection. The brand used the historic Cozzi swimming pool in Milan, an extraordinary structure built in the 1930s, as the backdrop to present a collection inspired by the sea, water and the world of sailing, evergreen themes of the Benetton style, interpreted as a metaphor for travelling among the most beautiful and characteristic ports of the Mediterranean. Photo: SGP Sisley Sisley is a sexy and contemporary clothing brand that creatively interprets the latest fashion trends. Founded in the ‘60s as a denim brand for women, Sisley was acquired by Benetton Group in 1974 and evolved further over the years. Since 2014, the label has been repositioned as an urban lifestyle brand in the bridge market segment. Today, the brand's target of reference is characterized by urban and dynamic lifestyles. The woman is modern and sensual, the man ambitious and hedonistic. Both like to explore contemporary styles. The current objective is to increase the perceived quality of the product and continue the repositioning of the brand in the bridge market segment, which proved positive in the last years thanks to a growing niche of more demanding consumers searching for fashion products at affordable prices. Collections Experience Sisley’s men and women’s collections reflect the latest From the very start, Sisley – an unconventional brand trends and contents of global fashion and represent par excellence – has established relations with its not only a look, but also a search for a strong and consumer targets in an original and irreverent way, recognizable identity. launching collaborations with world famous artists, participating in music events and exploiting modern Sensitive to the phenomena that attract younger tools and codes. Consumers receive a fully engaging, generations, Sisley expresses its avant-garde approach ongoing brand experience through the stores, the in the style of its accessories, colors and fabrics. digital channels, traditional media and the social media. Sisley is refined style with no frills and with an excellent 52 | Our brands price-quality ratio, guaranteed by ongoing research In Sisley’s newly adopted strategy, advertising reflects and development in the textile sector and in the new the brand’s universe with a captivating mix of seduction, technologies applied to it. contemporaneity and coolness. In this light, the recent ad campaigns succeeded in capturing the rhythmic, Sisley’s key items are denim and outerwear for men urban, irreverent style that is synonymous with Sisley and women, women’s dresses and men’s jackets. The and is integrated with the online activities and the social collections also include shirts, trousers, knits, t-shirts, interactions with the growing fan community. sweaters, accessories and footwear. In 2019, the brand organized dozens of events and Stores commercial activities in its stores, with dedicated shop Today, Sisley has approximately 600 stores distributed windows, live performances and product customization in the main global markets. In 2019, Sisley opened initiatives. 142 stores, including locations in Como and Venice, modelled on Rich&Raw concept. In 2020, we will launch Sisley Inspired by The Dreamers, a movie directed by Future Labs, a platform dedicated Bernardo Bertolucci, the Rich&Raw concept of the to sustainability that will involve Sisley stores plays on the contrast between rich the brand and its consumers in elements – such as brass, marble, mirrors, wood imagining a different future for paneling and glossy and lacquered surfaces – and fashion, summarized by the claim other raw elements, such as exposed bricks, metal “Look Good. Do Good”. accessories and vintage wood flooring. Sisley’s Cinema collection in Venice On the occasion of the 76th Venice Film Festival, the shop windows and the interior layout of the Sisley store in Campo San Bartolomeo, Venice, were transformed into the set of a photographic exhibition celebrating socialite events and the tradition of cinema production in Venice. Pier Paolo Pasolini, Brigitte Bardot, Sophia Loren, Paul Newman, Marcello Mastroianni 53 | Focus and Mick Jagger were just some of the celebrities portrayed in Venice between 1946 and 1987, playing a central role in the “Collezione Cinema A Tribute to Venice Film Festival” exhibition. The shots were selected from approximately 320 000 black and white negatives on film and glass plate, kept at the Cameraphoto Archive. The archive was established in 1946, the year in which Dino Jarach founded – in Venice – the photography agency Interphoto, whose name was later changed into Cameraphoto. The exhibition was organized at the new Sisley store in Campo San Bartolomeo, a stone’s throw from the Rialto Bridge. The store was opened in April 2019 and features two floors on a surface of about 200 sq m. In a warm, elegant and homey atmosphere, the layout combines the distinctive traits of the Rich&Raw concept with particular elements that pay homage to the city of Venice. The Sisley store showcased historical images of movie stars and of the world of culture alternated with items from the Fall Winter 2019 collection, reinforcing the link between Venice, the brand and the world of showbiz. Photo: Benetton Group A design company Design is not solely an attribute of beautiful objects and artifacts. Design can be defined as the ability – following a rigorous method – to match functionality with beauty, constraints with opportunities, demand with supply, creating new solutions that will last over time. It is in this sense that Benetton Group is a design company. Today, our design efforts are applied to our products, which have been the focus of research into style, materials, treatments and production processes since 1965. They are also applied to our marketing actions, which include omnichannel distribution and today’s digital tools, without betraying the long communication tradition of our brands. Last but not least, they apply to creativity free from the constraints of the market and oriented to the generation of new ideas at the service of the society. Product research • The collections by Jean-Charles de Castelbajac • Benetton Archive • Long Cotton • Ready to dye 56 | A design company • Dress Safe • Focus: The S68 Glamour Sneaker Digital transformation • UCB website restyling • Sisley website optimization • E-commerce • Omnichannel • Digital marketing • Competence center • Content Factory • Focus: The L.A. pop-up store 57 | A design company Ideas in the forefront • The campaigns • Fabrica Product research The success of Benetton Group is based on continuous experimentation with materials, design, processes and finishes. It all began more than fifty years ago, when Luciano and Giuliana Benetton produced a wool sweater in yellow instead of the neutral colors that were customary at the time. This approach continued over the decades, with innovations that progressively improved our products, even the apparently simplest ones. Today, that journey is reflected in a series of projects and initiatives involving the introduction into our collections of yarns, treatments, concepts and aesthetic solutions that enable our brands to create a bridge to the future. The collections by Jean-Charles its doors to the public during the 18th Week de Castelbajac of Business Culture promoted by Confindustria. 2019 was the first year in which the United Colors of Visitors had the opportunity to observe the link Benetton collections were created by Jean-Charles between business, beauty and social commitment that de Castelbajac, a globally renowned fashion designer has transformed the Treviso-based company into one who has inspired fashion trends in the past, such as of the world’s most famous fashion brands. the “anti-fashion” movement and the alternative use of objects to decorate garments. Appointed Artistic Long Cotton Director of Menswear and Womenswear collections Long Cotton is a type of cotton whose filaments in October 2018, Castelbajac stated that his mission exceed 28 mm in length and for this reason the would be to create the wardrobe of tomorrow, bringing resulting fabric is more resistant, softer and refined than normal. Along with our know-how in the field 58 | A design company beauty and style into everyday life at affordable prices. His style became immediately recognizable in the of materials, long fiber cotton in combination with an garments that featured an extravagant touch – like elastomer fiber enabled us to manufacture one size fits the entirely handmade maxi coat with the fancy pattern all underwear items for women and other products in of colored sheep in relief – and the recovery of different sizes for men and children. In 2019, long-fiber the brand’s heritage, reflected in the pop and cool cotton was a best seller of the Undercolors collections. reinterpretation of the iconic Benetton logo. During the year, Castelbajac was awarded the Creative Talent Ready to dye Award at the 2019 Cosmo Awards in Madrid and the In the ‘60s, Luciano Benetton had an intuition that Visionary of the Year Award, assigned by Vogue India. would permanently change the core business of his company – and the clothing industry in general Benetton Archive – forever. Until then, colored sweaters were The Benetton Archive is a workshop where Benetton produced directly from colored yarns. After months Group’s designers and employees can find inspiration of experimentation, Benetton managed to produce for their new projects. Developed in 2009, it contains sweaters using raw yarns and color them at a later a selection of iconic knitwear items selected from stage, based on the orders received. The intuition among the 12 000 housed in the product archive as generated an enormous commercial success and was well as sketches, paper patterns, technical cards, color adopted by all the major fashion players. A guarantee and material charts (catalogues, advertising materials, for long-lasting and soft-touch items, garment dyeing is magazines, press reviews) from the origins to the still used in 40% of our knitwear collections. present day. In November 2019, the Archives opened Dress Safe “Dress Safe” is Benetton Group’s project dedicated to garment quality and safety, especially with regard to kidswear. The Dress Safe tag, always present on the United Colors of Benetton kidswear collection and on the Sisley Young and Undercolors of Benetton lines, certifies compliance with the strictest textile safety parameters and ensures that the details and components of our products do not present any danger of suffocation or entrapment. The decrease in 2019 tests realised is mainly due to the lower volumes 2019 39 979 of garments produced and to the rationalisation of fabrics and suppliers. 59 | A design company Tests 2018 43 891 on products Tests on our garments go beyond normal international mechanical and chemical safety standards. NO hazardous chemical substances like carcinogenic or allergenic colorants, phthalates, formaldehyde and heavy metals. NO hazardous components, like easily detachable parts or excessively long strings. 2017 40 873 S68 Glamour special edition With the Spring Summer 2019 collection, Sisley presented an iconic sneaker: the S68 Glamour. Designed to add a pop touch to the seasonal trend of city sneakers, the S68s immediately became an iconic item for both men and women. Extra-large and vibrant, but also lightweight and breathable, the S68 comes in five different versions – Racy, Naughty, Gutsy, Greedy and Feisty – each in a different color palette. They feature solid profiles, a “high” tongue, fluo detailing and a suede toe. They are made from a mix of mesh fabric and leather, a compensated aerodynamic sole and glossy leather inserts. 60 | Focus The S68 special edition is unique because of its level of customization: all the sneakers are personalized by hand thanks to an artisanal process that ensures that each pair is unique. In addition, the sneakers are delivered to the customer in a personalized reversible bag. The innovative personality of the S68 sneakers was also reflected in the shopping experience. They were on display in only five selected stores – Venice, Rome, Milan, Florence and Naples – and could only be purchased online. The launch was supported by communication activities that involved influencers on the TikTok and Instagram social channels. #S68 #S68 sisley.com sisley.com #S68 #S68 sisley.com sisley.com 61 | Focus #S68 #S68 sisley.com sisley.com #S68 sisley.com Photo: Ryan Mcginley Digital transformation In recent years, Benetton Group has invested resources and energy in the progressive digitization of its business, a strategic, fundamental measure to keep up with the times and be increasingly flexible in facing today’s challenges. With regard to digital channels, major investments are currently focused on omnichannel distribution. However, the future challenge is creating an ongoing interaction between the digital experience and the real world, on a global level. UCB website restyling In 2019, United Colors of Benetton completely In 2020, the contents of the restyled its website with a view to improving its “Inside” benetton.com section will usability and making the online shopping experience be integrated into e-commerce. more enjoyable. The website has become an editorial The purchase of any product will platform for Company storytelling from different thus become a 360° experience, points of view. The new “Inside” section allows users a window on the Company’s to browse through product cards and content related heritage, know-how and style. to the brand’s expertise, the latest news articles and information about events, quizzes and anecdotes drawn from the history of the brand. In addition, images and The weather forecast function will 62 | A design company content self-produced by users have been attached to soon become available, enabling the product cards. users – thanks to geolocation – to choose the most appropriate Sisley website optimization garments for the weather After launching the e-commerce channel in 2018, conditions wherever they happen the sisley.com website has been optimized in terms to be. of technical performance and conversion process. E-commerce In 2019, United Colors of Benetton e-commerce In 2020, the United Colors of average again recorded a double-digit growth against Benetton e-commerce platforms the previous year. In addition, during the year Benetton will be launched in India and products began being distributed through third party Japan. e-tailers, like Amazon and Zalando, with Benetton maintaining brand consistency on the platforms. In the 134 UCB-branded stores – both directly operated and year, Sisley grew by approximately 50% in active online franchises – in Italy, and it is expected to be extended markets and, at the beginning of 2020, average data globally in the future. The Company invested massively confirmed a very promising growth rate on a year-onin sales force training on active services: the product year basis. locator function, to find out which stores sell what products; the click&collect function, to order a product Omnichannel online and collect it from the store; the endless aisle In 2019, United Colors of Benetton recorded a boom function, to buy a product that is currently not available in omnichannel distribution, the strategic model based in the store and collect it later; and the returned in store on the integration of the physical stores with the digital function, to return or exchange a product purchased world, for the purpose of increasing sales and minimizing online. In 2019, the Company focused on laying the stocks while offering an increasing range of services groundwork to develop the omnichannel strategy for to consumers. Omnichannel distribution involves Sisley as well. for the development of an effective online advertising In 2020, the omnichannel strategy aimed at improving the production of content, strategy will be enhanced by focusing on video and displays with a view to increasing the integration of the reserveawareness. All this without neglecting activities aimed at in-store service, which will creating traffic on the website through the optimization enable consumers to book their of search and social strategies. purchases and later go and try them on in the store, as well as the ship-from-store service, In 2020 we plan to merge our which will allow products to be brands’ active customer shipped to customers directly databases, which are currently from the store and not fromthe still working separately between e-commerce warehouse. offline and online channels. This means stock optimization This will allow us to deploy and especially better logistics more efficient and integrated key factors in improving engagement strategies. sustainability. The redefinition of our brands’ The Group expects to launch a 63 | A design company loyalty programs includes the Benetton app in 2020, which will introduction of a digital card and be updated according to user new rewarding systems, designed profiles and tastes. to retain to the youngest segment of the population. Competence center The Group operates a dedicated competence center Digital marketing for the purpose of concentrating the management of Over the past year we have optimized online marketing, currently open markets at its headquarters and for with the aim of improving our ability to reach out to defining a global expansion strategy for the two brands, consumers. The digital communication activities of United Colors of Benetton and Sisley. On a weekly United Colors of Benetton are always on, both in hot rotation, all the countries interact with the marketing moments like sales and in the case of the launch of new department to get support on content production and collections, as well as during “cooler” moments, when budget management. we concentrate on taking advantage of new storytelling opportunities. Also with a view to optimization, we Content Factory outsourced all online activities (displays, socials, In 2019, the development of the Content Factory investment and performance) to a single agency, with continued and it was launched in early 2020. This is the advantage that all the marketing levers can be the platform where product and collection content is coordinated according to the objectives established for produced and shared, including technical descriptions, the period. For Sisley, the foundations have been laid images and videos. The L.A. pop-up store On October 25, 2019 the United Colors of Benetton pop-up store was opened in Los Angeles. Located in the Santa Monica Place mall, the pop-up store served as the brand’s showcase on the West Coast for four weeks. After over four years of absence from the U.S. market, the Santa Monica Place pop-up store was intended to show the Group’s broad e-commerce offer, available on the new U.S. platform us.benetton.com. The pop-up store contained only display items that consumers could look at, touch, try on and then proceed to buy through the in-store online portal; purchases were then delivered to customers’ homes. 64 | Focus A perfect integration between online and offline strategies, the initiative proved successful in engaging consumers, who were given a chance to interact with all the items offered on the digital platform, including some lines presented concurrently with the Milan autumn fashion shows. With a burst of colorful energy, the pop-up store also showed the evolution of the brand according to Jean-Charles de Castelbajac’s new creative direction, and contributed to consolidating the image of United Colors of Benetton as a company in step with the digital revolution. 65 | Focus Photo: Benetton Group Ideas in the forefront There is no project without ideas. This is the reason why – in 1994 – Benetton Group founded Fabrica, a non-conventional research center established to experiment with different themes using a multidisciplinary and global approach. Ideas are the basis of all projects: the most creative ideas provide a fundamental support to the storytelling around brands, products and stores. Insights then unleash free research for a deeper understanding of our times, enabling Benetton Group to find answers to the great questions of the future. The campaigns The Sisley Way Everyone remembers the image of a black mother The legendary Joshua Tree natural park, dotted with nursing a white baby. Everyone also remembers the cacti and mugwort, provided the backdrop for Sisley’s image of the three identical hearts, one next to the Spring Summer 2019 collection. This was the third other, each representing a different race. Everyone chapter of The Sisley Way, the campaign developed who saw these images directly or studied them in the to present the brand’s collections in iconic locations, manuals of advertising history cannot but confirm through the eyes of Ryan McGinley, a photographer that the United Colors of Benetton campaigns by known for his portraits of young Americans. Fabrica show how a brand can leverage on disruptive communication. The same holds for Sisley: its sensual Grand Hotel Stockholm and provocative campaigns in the early 2000s For the presentation of the Autumn Winter 2019 inaugurated a new photographic language in the campaign Sisley inaugurated a new format that will take 66 | A design company fashion world. the brand to several European and North American capitals over the coming seasons. Shot in a Stockholm The effort to innovate in the field of communication hotel by Eric Broms, with styling by Lisa Lindqwister, is part of Benetton Group’s DNA. Even in 2019, our the campaign depicts a weekend among friends with campaigns reached millions of people around the the typical intimacy and irony of Sisley’s campaigns. world, with ideas and images that captured attention and remained impressed in people’s minds. Wanted Creativity 2019 also saw the continuation of Wanted Creativity, United in Diversity the initiative scouting new faces and talents through Fabrica developed United in Diversity, the institutional the organization of events in United Colors Benetton campaign of United Colors of Benetton. Key players stores (Zurich, February 15-16 and Padua, June are Luciano Benetton and Ayak Mading. The shots 22-23), photography exhibitions (Ospedaletto Con/ by Oliviero Toscani portray the eighty-four-year-old temporaneo in Venice, May 11 November 24) Chairman of Benetton Group and the Sudanese model and portfolio days in Venice, Turin and San Teodoro wearing the same United Colors of Benetton item. in Sardinia. The events were attended by dozens of Different in age, background and skin color, they have creative young individuals interested in participating the same smile, looking to the future with confidence. in the Fabrica selection process. United Colors of Benetton – Fall Winter 2019 Fabrica Campaign Fabrica, the Benetton Group's communication Two girls with mushroom cloud hair styles. A pale guy research center, is housed in a 17th century Venetian with a red cap. A colorful group of smiling friends. These villa, refurbished in the 1990s by Japanese architect are some snapshots from United Colors of Benetton’s Tadao Ando. Founded in 1994, in over twenty-five Fall Winter 2019 campaign. The images by Oliviero years Fabrica has hosted over 700 creative talents Toscani evoke the optimistic, colorful and unconventional aged under 25 – including photographers, illustrators, world that has made the history of the brand. artists, writers, advertising specialists, directors, musicians, videomakers, journalists, graphic designers, motherhood, fear, beauty and ugliness, God, and the developers, hackers and designers – from over 65 future. The topics are analyzed from original and surprising countries around the world. perspectives, with external contributions, music and voice messages. In 2019 Fabrica also launched a series of research projects, with the objective of analyzing, investigating COLORS Magazine and interpreting the forces that form the present, in In 2019, the Group resumed the publication of the order to imagine the future. COLORS magazine with a new editorial format on Instagram as @colorsmagazine, an “about the rest of 36 hours of CON-FUSION the web” profile. Six “issues” dedicated to integration, Stories, debates, workshops, music, theater, cinema ecology, addiction, prohibitions, instability and fake news and creative improvisation, but above all a lot of CONwere produced. FUSION: in 2019, on April 6 and 7, at Fabrica the topics explored revolved around the future, integration OltrApe and optimism. Numerous speakers from the world of Leonardo Angellotti, Fabrica's young videomaker, culture and contemporary social and political debate documented his month-long journey through Europe participated in the cycle of conferences: Emma Bonino, with a three-wheeled Piaggio Ape-Car on teen radio Gad Lerner, Vittorio Sgarbi, Francesco Merlo, Massimo station Radioimmaginaria. The adventure began in Castel Giannini, Isabella Bossi Fedrigotti, Domenico Quirico, Guelfo in Bologna and ended in Stockholm, the city Elly Schlein, the spokesmen of Doctors Without where activist Greta Thunberg was born. Objective: 67 | A design company Frontiers, Mediterranea, Sea-Watch and Caritas, Marco understand how the global environmentalist protest Müller, Claudio Giovannesi and many others. A busy currently under way got started. agenda dealing with the evolution of the human and social condition, migration flows and aspects regarding Library integration today and, especially, tomorrow. The topic In 2019, the Fabrica library was enriched with a was analyzed from all different perspectives, from the collection dedicated to color, belonging to architect facile fallacies we hear every day to the tragedies in the Manlio Brusatin. From architecture to graphic design, Mediterranean sea, from efficient integration models from art to photography, the collection consists of to the changes to be expected in our countries in the 1 500 volumes on the history of color theory and its coming years. various applications. Camera Oscura Training Camera Oscura is a television format for image analysis Since 2012 Fabrica has been recognized as a structure and observation. Designed and produced by Fabrica, suitable for providing training to young unemployed and it aired on LA7 in July and August 2019. Thirty people non-employed students with secondary high school standing in a minimalistic space commented a series diplomas and/or university degrees, through training of photographs hanging on the wall. Two themes were projects recognized by the Veneto region and the Italian discussed in two other episodes: integration and the government. In October 2019 a new Garanzia Giovani body. Oliviero Toscani, together with the art critic and Work Experience course – called Segno&Stile – journalist Nicolas Ballario, moderated the discussion. was launched for the specialist training of nine graphic designers under the age of 30. Segno&Stile will prepare Radio Fabrica students to enter the world of work by providing Radio Fabrica is a radio show conducted by Oliviero them with a 176 hour classroom course and 3-month Toscani and Nicolas Ballario, on the air every Sunday internships at communication and design studios and at noon on Radio Capital since March 2019. The three Benetton Group graphic design offices. show explores a different issue every time, topics like: A people company Benetton Group always puts people at the very center: the people who work for or collaborate with the Company, the people who buy the products, everyone. The Company’s human resources policies aim at developing a constructive dialogue with employees at all levels and everywhere in the world, without discrimination of any kind, in order to stimulate an open and correct exchange that promotes the development and enhancement of human capital. In addition, the Company expresses the value it attributes to human rights through its advertising campaigns, developed to raise awareness regarding the most controversial topics of our times, but also, and above all, through initiatives that guarantee dignity, freedom and equality to all of our employees in every part of the world. Our people • Organizational structure • The International HR Family • Benetton per Te • Ponzano Children • Zero Injury Objective • Training • People Development • HR Digital Transformation • Employer Branding • Reward • Industrial Relations 70 | A people company 71 | A people company Human rights • Supply chain management • Social communication • The “Naked” photographic project • Women’s empowerment in India Our 22.8% 6.5% people Permanent Temporary 2019 2019 29.6% 36.3% 77.2% 13.9% 93.5% 49.3% 49.8% 21.1% 22.8% 6.5% Italy Permanent Europe Temporary Rest of the world 72 | A people company Employee by geographic area 2019 2017 797 1 918 274 2 414 29.6% 911 1 191 36.3% 7 505 2018 733 1 722 278 2 640 937 1 200 7 510 2019 687 1 622 264 2 701 942 1 155 7 371 13.9% Italy Europe Rest of the world 49.3% Men Women 49.8% 21.1% GRI 102-8 Employees by: 2017 Italy 2018 2019 Men Women Total Men WomenEurope Total Men Women Total Employment contract Rest of the world Permanent 1 728 3 898 5 626 1 761 4 105 5 866 1 770 4 229 5 999 Temporary 254 1 625 1 879 187 1 457 1 644 123 1 249 1 372 Other 0 0 0 Total 1 982 5 523 7 505 1 948 5 562 7 510 1 893 5 478 7 371 Employment type Full Time 1 709 3 149 4 858 1 688 3 164 4 852 1 627 3 093 4 720 Part Time 273 2 374 2 647 260 2 398 2 658 266 2 385 2 651 Other 0 0 0 Total 1 982 5 523 7 505 1 948 5 562 7 510 1 893 5 478 7 371 Benetton Group: 2019 Employee breakdown • by age • by qualification + + + + 866 247 44 247 44 866 40.5% 29.1% 40.5% 29.1% 0.1% 2.0% 0.1% 2.0% 2 769 2 769 7 080 7 080 50.8% 50.4% 50.8% 50.4% 98.8% 88.0% 98.8% 88.0% 3 736 3 736 8.7% 20.5% 8.7% 20.5% 1.1% 10.0% 1.1% 10.0% < 30 years < 30 years Manager Manager 30-50 years 30-50 years White collar White collar > 50 years > 50 years Blue collar Blue collar GRI 405-1 Employee breakdown by qualification, gender and age Age Italy Europe Rest of the world Total Manager 73 | A people company Men < 30 years 0 0 0 0 31-50 years 7 1 4 12 > 50 years 21 3 3 27 Total Men 28 4 7 39 Women < 30 years 0 0 0 0 31-50 years 2 1 0 3 > 50 years 2 0 0 2 Total Women 4 1 0 5 Total 32 5 7 44 White Collar Men < 30 years 42 115 387 544 31-50 years 282 111 465 858 > 50 years 208 24 31 263 Total Men 532 250 883 1 665 Women < 30 years 372 1 234 613 2 219 31-50 years 921 1 348 492 2 761 > 50 years 275 113 47 435 Total Women 1 568 2 695 1 152 5 415 Total 2 100 2 945 2 035 7 080 Blue collar Men < 30 years 3 3 0 6 31-50 years 44 4 37 85 > 50 years 80 3 15 98 Total Men 127 10 52 189 Women < 30 years 0 0 0 0 31-50 years 12 4 1 17 > 50 years 38 1 2 41 Total Women 50 5 3 58 Total 177 15 55 247 TOTAL 2 309 2 965 2 097 7 371 Turnover 2019 The high turnover rate is largely attributable to retail activities Comprehensively, newly hired people are mostly young and this and is physiological considering the competition within is evidence of the Company’s commitment to investing in the the business sector. generational turnover. GRI 401-1 New hirings and turnover 1 776 649 508 310 174 (148%) (54%) (109%) (39%) 14 34 (109%) 51 6 (27%) (34%) (22%) (32%) WOMEN Italy Europe Rest of the world 3 522 (88%) RETAIL 182 398 30 19 (170%) 33 (116%) 71 4 255 (125%) (33%) (48%) (51%) MEN Italy Europe Rest of the world 733 (96%) + 4 542 INPUT 26 31 5 11 13 1 38 37 4 (30%) (6%) (2%) (30%) (8%) (7%) (26%) (14%) (13%) WOMEN Italy Europe Rest of the world 166 (11%) OTHER FUNCTIONS 11 23 12 3 6 2 14 47 3 287 (52%) (8%) (4%) (27%) (13%) (11%) (32%) (13%) (6%) MEN Italy Europe Rest of the world 121 (11%) 74 | A people company 1 691 631 523 340 237 14 (141%) (53%) 46 (112%) 74 10 (119%) (53%) (27%) (46%) (31%) (53%) WOMEN Italy Europe Rest of the world 3 566 (89%) RETAIL 187 376 46 41 3 39 2 60 1 4 321 (192%) (72%) (27%) (175%) (57%) (17%) (110%) (43%) (50%) MEN Italy Europe Rest of the world 755 (99%) OUTPUT – 4 619 18 32 20 6 10 22 59 2 (21%) (7%) (8%) (16%) (6%) (15%) (23%) (7%) WOMEN Italy Europe Rest of the world 169 (11%) OTHER FUNCTIONS 5 18 28 1 7 66 4 298 (24%) (7%) (9%) (2%) (16%) (18%) (9%) MEN 129 Italy Europe Rest of the world (11%) 000 No. of employees hired (leaving) during the year (fixed-term + permanent) < 30 years > 1 000 (000%) Turnover rate: total no. of employees hired (leaving) / no. of employees as at 31.12 31-50 years 501 999 101 500 > 50 years < 100 RETAIL means staff directly employed in the store with store manager, salesperson, warehouse operator and visual merchandiser functions in the store. Focus on communication between people. Standardize governance at the international level. Rejuvenate the Company’s workforce ensuring the transmission of expertise and professionalism. Reduce costs and increase responsibilities, rewarding excellence. These were the main guidelines for our human resources strategy in 2019. Our goal is to change mindset, because a global company like Benetton Group, with over 7 300 employees and about 4 500 stores in more than 70 countries, must know how to adapt to change while remaining true to its identity. People are the key to achieving such an ambitious goal. Below is a description of a series of initiatives aimed at organizing our employees in the best possible way, facilitating communication between different areas and countries, fostering employee well-being and listening to requests, attracting new talent and rewarding those who are already with us. Organizational structure of their seniority and type of contract, while abroad In 2019, the HR & Organization Department promoted the Group launched local People Care initiatives to the redefinition and communication of Benetton respond to country-specific needs. The program Group’s new first-tier organizational model, with a view covers four areas: work/life balance, health, family and to increasing accountability and transparency in the savings, with each area including several annual and decision-making process. Two main organizational multiannual projects. areas were defined in order to ensure a more effective control of the business: “Commercial & Sales” and Flexible benefit “Product & Supply Chain”. The Company subsequently Flexible benefit was launched in 2019. In March, thanks designed and implemented the second-tier to the opportunities introduced by the Corporate 75 | A people company organizational structures of the UCB Commercial area Supplementary Agreement, the employees covered and the Product & Supply Chain area, which operates by the collective national labor agreement of the for all Benetton Group’s brands and merchandise textile industry were given the choice to receive their categories. productivity bonus in the form of Welfare Credit, to be spent together with the Welfare Bonus on an The structure of the HR & Organization Department extensive catalogue of goods and services, including was also subject to organizational changes in 2019, school fees, gym subscriptions, travel, cinema tickets including the creation of two specific functions, HR and vouchers. The initiative also allowed for the People Development and HR Digital Transformation, possibility to customize services based on one’s tasked with the transformation of the Company, so needs, thanks to the on-demand agreement option. facilitating the generational transition. Employees could therefore benefit from a twofold advantage: firstly, the Welfare Credit is not subject The International HR Family to taxes or pension contributions and, secondly, In 2019, a series of international meetings was the productivity bonus was increased by up to 20% organized with the participation of all country if translated into Welfare Credit. human resources managers, in order to standardize To inform beneficiaries as to how to convert the processes, rules and policies, share best practices productivity bonus and spend the welfare credit, 20 and rationalize the global outputs and KPIs. In the ad-hoc meetings were organized in the three offices future, these meetings will be continued and scheduled of Ponzano Veneto, Castrette and Milan. also thanks to the use of new video conferencing Any remaining welfare credits, not spent as at 30 technologies. November 2019 were paid to employees with their December salaries, except for the part of the credit Benetton for You deriving from the Welfare Bonus, the residual value Benetton for You is the People Care program that of which was allocated to Banca Ore Etica, funding an the Group launched in 2015 to promote the wellbeing important solidarity institute already present in the of all the employees of the Italian offices, regardless Company. 58%: 91%: percentage percentage of headquarters of Welfare employees Credit spent who chose by employees. to convert the The residue productivity deriving from bonus into the Welfare Welfare Credit Bonus was 76 | A people company Banca Ore Etica allocated to The fund raising activity with the allocation of the residual amounts to Banca Ore Etica continued in the Banca 2019. Introduced in September 2018 in application of the Supplementary Company Agreement, Banca Ore Etica is a tool consisting of holidays and leave Ore Etica permits donated by employees, on a voluntary basis, in favor of colleagues who are in particular situations selection of images of the Group’s advertising of need. The Company participates in the collection campaigns and Formula 1 cars. The event, which by contributing an equal number of hours for each was sold out on all the dates with more than 500 donation. Employees who have special health care participants, was very successful and will be repeated needs or whose family members do and who have in 2020. already exhausted all their hours of paid leave and leave accrued, may benefit from these hours of English for You solidarity. Each request is examined by a dedicated English for You offers a series of English language committee and treated strictly confidentially. courses at different levels for employees and their family members at discounted prices. Open Day Archives The Benetton Studios and Archives were opened on La Ghirada for eight evenings to Benetton Group employees, Also in 2019, Group employees and their families had their families and friends. This was an opportunity to access to advantageous rates for the summer camps take part in a special guided tour of the Benetton organized by La Ghirada Città dello Sport, Archives, which preserves the Company’s historical the 22-hectare sports complex built in Treviso heritage, and of the exhibition area, which hosts a by the Benetton family. Ponzano Children set by the nurseries and kindergartens of Reggio Emilia. Founded in 2008, Ponzano Children is a children’s Ponzano Children is located in a building designed by center that hosts both the children of employees and the Spanish architect Alberto Campo Baeza. Today, children of Ponzano and other municipalities in the it includes five sections for different ages, of which surrounding area. An educational service that hinges on two for infant day care, one nursery school and two building relationships, research, the wellbeing of children kindergartens, with a total capacity of approximately and the community, the center follows the guidelines 100 children aged from 9 months to 6 years. GRI 401-3 Return to work and retention rates of employees who took parental leave Italy Europe Rest of the world Total Employees entitled to: Maternity 61 147 50 258 Paternity 16 3 9 28 Total 77 150 59 286 Employees who took a parental leave Maternity 61 147 40 248 Paternity 16 3 9 28 Total 77 150 49 276 Return to work after parental leave ended Maternity 45 94 30 169 77 | A people company Paternity 16 3 9 28 Total 61 97 39 197 Maternity 74% 64% 75% 68% Paternity 100% 100% 100% 100% Total 79% 65% 80% 71% Retention rate – employees who returned to work after parental leave ended and still working 12 months after their return Maternity 49 88 18 155 Paternity 20 1 8 29 Total 69 89 26 184 Maternity 98% 92% 78% 92% Paternity 100% 100% 73% 91% Total retention rate 99% 92% 76% 92% Zero Injury Objective The dissemination of the culture of prevention takes Benetton Group has always been committed to place through basic training and advanced courses at ensuring suitable workplaces for the performance all levels, with integrated and personalized courses of its business activities and implementing ongoing depending on the role covered, previous training and improvements and preventive measures to manage the need for updating, coordinated by the Prevention all aspects that pertain to employee health and safety. and Protection Service, taking opportunities for Risk assessment, supplemented by the improvement moments of dialogue, listening, evaluation of possible plan, is constantly updated by the Prevention and improvements both during normal activities and in Protection Service, present in all Benetton Group emergency situations and with the analysis of accidents companies, in relation to specific issues and the and “near misses”. In addition to the training activities implemented organizational changes. A special synergy related to regulatory compliance, awareness-raising is developed with outsourcers engaged in set-up, activities are also organized to manage the residual risk service or maintenance activities in order to manage of certain activities, aimed at correcting inappropriate interference risks. behavior and updating prevention measures with the delivery of specific safety prescriptions. Injury ratios GRI 403-2 R ates of injury at work, occupational diseases, lost days, absenteeism and number of work-related fatalities, broken down by geographic area Unit Italy Europe Rest of the world Total 2017 Injury rate No. of injuries/Hours worked x 1 000 000 10.3 18.07 2.74 10.16 Lost day rate Lost days/Hours worked x 1 000 0.26 0.42 0.02 0.27 2018 Injury rate No. of injuries/Hours worked x 1 000 000 12.23 18.53 2.27 11.3 Lost day rate Lost days/Hours worked x 1 000 0.49 0.16 0.22 0.29 2019 Injury rate No. of injuries/Hours worked x 1 000 000 6.95 19.43 3.18 9.15 Lost day rate Lost days/Hours worked x 1 000 0.22 0.17 0.03 0.12 Training to meet new colleagues and get to know each other In 2019, more than half of our Company's workforce better, increasing their sense of belonging to the 78 | A people company was involved in training and development initiatives. This Company while generating positive energy. In addition, percentage increases to 70% if we also consider the 12 “Learn” sessions were held, involving 437 colleagues staff of the directly operated stores. The main training for a total of 1 740 hours of training inspired by People projects are divided into a portfolio of courses ranging in Colors, a model that identifies for each person four from product and sales training to technical-specialist cognitive styles or ways of thinking and acting, each of training. which corresponds to a color: blue, yellow, green and The catalogue of activities is designed on site by our red. training office and includes training and engagement The objective was to promote insights along the path initiatives dedicated to the staff of our headquarters of self-awareness and relations with others. and stores. Most of the initiatives are shared with foreign subsidiaries which take action to customize the In 2020 the objective is to programs and engage employees locally, together with complete the last two phases of the training team. the United by Color engagement project, relating to the “Build” United by Color and “Dream” sessions. In 2019 all headquarters staff was involved in United by Color, a four-stage engagement project: Meet, Learn, Build and Dream. Color is one of the main drivers KICK FOS of the project inspired by the values of the brand. In 2019 we renewed and increased our partner training It aims to improve relationships between colleagues offer. KICK FOS is an induction project aimed at and increase continuous and effective collaboration guiding the new franchisees in store management and towards a shared business goal. In 2019, we completed providing them with proprietary guidelines and tools, the first two phases of the project. starting from the Store Basics&Fundamentals Benetton The first “Meet” phase was organized in the canteen of manuals. In 2019, two 6-day-each editions – one for the two Company offices. The approximately 1 270 UCB and one for Sisley – were held, involving a total of participating employees were given the opportunity 37 participants. Selling in Colors November training was carried out at 132 points of Selling in Colors is a training course designed to sale in Italy (directly operated stores and franchisees), provide support to store personnel in their daily and the same training was also extended to the relationship with customers. Based on the People London store. In 2019, the project involved 543 in Colors model, its objective is to facilitate the colleagues for a total of 2 532 training hours. recognition of the different types of customers entering the stores by offering an additional tool to Green Camp increase the efficacy of the selling process through In 2019, we kicked off the first edition of the interaction with customers based on simple and Undercolors Green Camp, an event dedicated to immediate criteria. In 2019, 22 editions of Selling the levers of store management, dealing with various in Colors were organized, involving a total of 195 topics, including sales, product, visual merchandising and people, including store personnel, franchisees, operations. The event involved 93 colleagues for one directly operated stores and partner franchisees day and a half of training. with a total of 866 training hours. The project was also implemented in France SS19/FW19 Product Training in collaboration with the local team, with the A collection increasingly inspired by the brand’s DNA involvement of 26 colleagues for a total of 104 and the new artistic director made it necessary for training hours. the Company to design dedicated brand and product content. Therefore, roadshows were organized, both in store and in the agency, involving the personnel of the 79 | A people company In 2020, the Selling in Colors directly operated stores and franchisees, with the aim training course will involve of providing useful knowledge and tools on collections the staff of Undercolors stores and inspirational themes while analyzing in depth (directly operated stores and the details of the garments and developing greater franchisees) in Italy. awareness of the brand identity. The training was carried out for the SS19 and FW19 collections and was divided into 31 editions involving 843 colleagues for a In 2020 the objective is to total of 3 463 training hours in Italy. Two editions were complete training on the four also held abroad: one in France with the participation services of the omnichannel of 26 colleagues for a total of 208 training hours and strategy across the entire sales the other in Malta with nine colleagues for a total of 54 network in Italy (approx. 100 training hours. stores) and to expand the services to the Sisley brand. In the latter In 2020, we will launch an part of the year the project will important, highly innovative be shared and customized for and almost entirely digital implementation in France and product training project Spain. dedicated to the entire sales network and including Omnichannel interactive training exercises. The training plan, with its four services, represents a key step for the implementation of the omnichannel strategy in the sales network. In 2019, a blended training course was developed, combining e-learning and in-class sessions. In particular, in JanuaryWorking@Retail and all brands (UCB, Sisley, Undercolors). As part Working@Retail is a set of initiatives launched in the of the project, a contest was organized to stimulate second half of 2019 with the aim of strengthening a the commercial performance of the United Colors cross-channel retail approach, implementing standard of Benetton, Sisley and Undercolors stores. tools for even more effective sales management, including reporting and digital tools for managing and monitoring store activities. Born from the In 2020, Working@Retail will collaboration between the human resources and be extended to foreign countries, commercial functions, this is the first company-wide with the ambition to also extend project involving all channels (directly operated stores, the contest. franchisees and independently operated stores) GRI 404-1 Average year training hours by employee and gender Training hours 2017 2018 2019 Men Women Men Women Men Women Italy Total training hours provided 9 753 12 490 17 774 Training hours by employee 4 5 8 of which provided to: 5 3 6 5 8 8 Europe 80 | A people company Total training hours provided 6 977 6 448 10 475 Training hours by employee 3 2 4 of which provided to: 3 3 2 2 3 4 Rest of the world Total training hours provided 13 299 10 906 11 288 Training hours by employee 6 5 5 of which provided to: 7 5 4 3 6 5 Benetton Group Total training hours provided 30 029 29 844 39 537 Training hours by employee 4 4 5 of which provided to: 7 3 6 3 6 5 People Development a professional and managerial approach to people In 2019, a new function was established, dedicated to management. The course includes in-class sessions the development and growth of key resources within and individual coaching and involved 13 HQ colleagues the Company and the sales network, with a focus on for a total of 236 training hours. managerial training to support key skills for the future. In addition, for some key resources, individual coaching courses were activated with the aim of supporting People Management in Colors them in this phase of important professional growth. In 2019, in line with the corporate training initiatives A total of 30 coaching hours were provided. and engagement programs, a training course was provided for new managers, i.e. colleagues who have Up Strategy been tasked with a responsibility role for less than a In 2019 we designed and delivered role training for 35 year. The “People Management in Colors” course is sales network resources (Sisley and Benetton) as part based on the People in Colors model and aims to of our Up Strategy, an established approach to talent increase awareness about one’s own leadership style management. The course combines a preliminary session while at the same time developing and consolidating dedicated to the assessment of individual potential (Growing Up) with traditional in-class training (In Store BEST Up), followed by a session dedicated to the assessment BEST (Benetton Engagement and Store Training) is of individual performance and sharing within a final the digital learning platform that has been a reference Growing Committee and corresponding assessment of point for the staff of both directly operated stores the adequacy of the skills developed by the individual to and franchisees since 2017. Again in 2019 the platform cover the requested role (Performing Up). supported the main training and business projects, with A total of 1 104 training hours were provided in 2019 updates, newsletters, exercises and dedicated content. for this specific project, with a view to strengthening An important focus was dedicated to product training, organizational, managerial and technical skills. with the publication of Product Training Kits, video The courses enabled 22 Store Managers and 13 Store content, interactive exercises and a “virtual dialogue” Department Managers, most of whom had been with our Artistic Director. Other relevant projects promoted from within the Group, to develop the skill target the omnichannel distribution strategy, with a sets needed to best fill their roles. dedicated e-learning path, and Selling in Colors, which included an in-depth analysis and hands-on exercises based on the theoretical content provided in class. In addition, the HR World section was launched, allowing In 2020, we will address the issue more than 70 colleagues from 16 different countries of ageing, i.e. the cohabitation of to access the platform’s content in English, French and four generations in the Company, Spanish. with the aim of enhancing skills 81 | A people company and promoting the professional Workplace retraining of senior resources, In November 2019, we launched Workplace, a social increasing opportunities for platform developed by Facebook that will enable all exchange and sharing with junior Sisley resources (headquarters, directly operated resources. stores and indirectly operated stores) to create, share and comment on brand, product, communication and community content. In 2020 we will focus on the definition of succession plans for all the positions identified as In 2020, we will launch BE Digital, key, encouraging the growth of an e-learning and in-class training internal resources, with the aim initiative on digital issues and the of promoting synergy between correct use of social platforms countries and accompanying in the Company. talents in their growth pipeline. In 2020, we will activate Moodle, HR Digital Transformation a customizable e-learning Another function developed in 2019 within the platform developed with the Human Resources area is digital transformation. The aim of circulating key information objective is to promote the digitization of the Company, concerning United Colors of identifying solutions, tools and methodologies that Benetton company-wide. target time management and process streamlining, while encouraging innovation within the Company. Employer Branding Mittelmoda District In 2019, Benetton Group participated in numerous In 2019, as part of the Mittelmoda District project, employer branding initiatives in close collaboration with dedicated to vocational fashion schools, we invited leading schools and universities. The aim is to attract about 200 students from four fashion schools located new talent with a view to renewing and diversifying human in the Friuli-Venezia Giulia region to visit our Company resources. Our efforts were acknowledged in the offices. The project will continue in 2020 with the assignment of two prestigious awards: the Universum involvement of other schools. Award and the Best Talent Hunter. Digital Recruiting Veneto Youth Rethink the Future We recorded nearly 70 000 visits on our Work for Us In March 2019, we collaborated with Fabrica in the web page and on our LinkedIn page, and over 45 000 organization of the “Veneto Youth Rethink the Future” résumés. Today, candidates can send their curriculum event, inviting about 200 high school students from vitae directly from any store thanks to QR code the Veneto region to our Company offices. The event, technology. organized in collaboration with Confindustria Veneto SIAV and Fondazione Centro Produttività Veneto, “Undercolors of Creativity” enabled the participating students to learn more about In early 2019, five students attending the second year the functioning and dynamics of a large company and of the Fashion Design course at IED in Rome to receive useful advice on how to approach the world participated in the “Undercolors of Creativity” project. of work. The students were invited to a full-day visit of our 82 | A people company Company and received a briefing by the Undercolors Master MFI – Milano Fashion Institute product team. They subsequently worked for Founded in 2007 by three Milanese universities two months on the design and development of a – Bocconi, Cattolica and Politecnico – the Milan Womenswear Capsule Collection whose aim was to Fashion Institute is an inter-university consortium for communicate the identity of the brand by introducing higher education in the field of fashion, whose goal new stylistic and conceptual elements to the Homewear is the creation of a multidisciplinary training center and Loungewear categories with dedicated lingerie of excellence at the international level. In 2019, the lines. After completion of the assessment process by Recruiting & Talent Acquisition Team held a conference the Undercolors product team, one student, Giordana for master’s students dedicated to job orientation Marcucci, was offered an internship in the Company. and first job search. The collaboration with the master program will continue in 2020 with the involvement of CUOA Business School new students. After visiting our corporate offices with a view to learning more about the history and identity of United Pitti Filati Colors of Benetton, the students of the Master in In January 2019, Dario Tubiana and Lisette Estefania Brand Ambassador at CUOA Business School carried Bazan – students of the Master in Creative Knitwear out a project aimed at identifying the ideal testimonials Design at Rome’s Accademia Costume & Moda, and to communicate Benetton to 20-year-olds and winners of a competition organized by Benetton Group developed an online and offline ad hoc communication in 2018 – presented their collections at our design campaign. In June 2019, the students presented the offices during a fashion show organized at Pitti Filati. projects to a group of HR and Digital representatives. Reward In 2020, we will again collaborate In 2019, the Group’s remuneration policy was focused with Fabrica for the development on the implementation of a series of fixed and variable of the Segno & Stile project, components for the Group’s Italian and foreign a free training course on graphics operations, with particular focus on young employees design addressed to unemployed and key resources, and with a view to promoting team individuals and young NEETs results. The objective is to motivate and retain the best (Not in Education, Employment resources already present in the Company and in the or Training) financed by the stores, to ensure continuity and medium-long term European Social Fund. planning, and contribute to building the future of the Company. Management by Objectives In 2020, we will also continue In 2019, we formalized the Management by Objectives our collaboration – through Plan (MBO), which includes the assignment of assignment of a scholarship – economic benefits to managers who reach specific with Rome’s Accademia di Moda corporate and individual targets, consistently with the e Costume and Modateca Deanna. Group’s strategy. Today, the plan is operating in 17 countries and involves over 120 managers, of whom 30% are abroad. The structure and mechanism of the 83 | A people company plan include objectives linked to both the economic In 2020, we will organize a new and financial performance (at Group or Country/ edition of the Nice to Meet Region/Brand level) and individual performance, You event, a day of professional in order to orient behavior towards the effective orientation dedicated to the achievement of business results. children of our employees in search of their first job after Sales Incentive Plan completing their studies. In 2019, the process of standardization of the incentive plans dedicated to sales personnel continued in all the Group’s countries, with a differentiated approach by sales channel (DOS IOS FOS), increasingly “glocal” (global and local) in order to direct behavior towards promoting ongoing improvement in business performance. For the direct channel (DOS), the plan dedicated to all the roles operating in the stores was revised with a view to effectively driving an approach focused on further improving POS sales performance by rewarding the best network performers with additional benefits. Within the Working@Retail2020 framework, the Company introduced the BUS Contest, the first cross-channel and cross-brand initiative, which involved approximately 600 DOS and FOS stores in Italy, belonging to the three brands – Benetton, giving the stores a continuous stimulus to improve Undercolors and Sisley – in the last months of 2019. performance and engagement, encouraging teamwork The objective is to support the sales network by and rewarding the best results. GRI 405-2 Salary Gender Gap Index Italy 2017 2018 2019 2017 2018 2019 Headquarter Salary ratio Remuneration ratio Managers * 100% 88% 79% 97% 85% 76% Executives 95% 96% 95% 93% 95% 92% White collars 89% 90% 89% 89% 90% 89% Blue collars 99% 98% 98% 98% 97% 97% Store Salary ratio Remuneration ratio Executives 83% 71% 87% 80% 66% 94% White collars 93% 90% 87% 92% 88% 85% * The Managers category is referred only to senior managers. The worsening of the 2019 indicators for the positions can have a considerable impact on the final management category is justified by the reduced result when considering of a gender-neutral reward number of the sample. New hires and leaving managers policy. as well as those promoted to top management 84 | A people company Industrial Relations Performance bonus A key element in guaranteeing the growth and success The new Level 2 Supplementary Agreement, coming of Benetton Group’s human resources is constant to its last year of application in 2020 before renewal, and continuous dialogue promoting the identification implemented the same criteria for the determination of of innovative solutions targeting employee wellbeing performance used in the three-year 2015-2017 period. and the improvement of working conditions within The criteria proved effective in defining the bonus the Company. To this end, numerous meetings are amounts. In 2019, the aforementioned bonuses were organized at all levels with workers’ trade unions. increased in value thanks to the possibility to convert At a national level, in 2019 the Company further them – partially or fully – into goods and services, via consolidated, with highly innovative results, the content the use of an integrated, user-friendly online platform of the supplementary company agreement for the that could be accessed by each individual employee, 2018-2020 period and the related performanceremotely if so desired. linked bonus, with particular reference to the work carried out by the three Joint Commissions on the As to notice periods relative to significant organizational issues of training, company welfare and employee changes, the Company has a proven track record classification. in recognizing the value of collective bargaining as a privileged tool for determining contractual conditions Organizational turnaround and for regulating relations between Company Many targeted organizational turnaround actions were management and trade unions. The Company also fully continued from the previous year in some specific complies with all national collective labor agreements areas of the Company. These actions recorded very (SMI Textile, Trade, Executives, etc.). In the absence positive results, both in terms of productivity and of National Collective Bargaining Agreements at the process rationalization, with a particular focus on the foreign subsidiaries, employment relations are managed Sales and Product areas. in compliance with national laws, with the exception of derogations that are more favorable to workers. Human rights Dignity, freedom, equality. Right to work and to education. Protection of vulnerable groups such as women, children, indigenous peoples, refugees and migrants, and LGTBQI+ people. Benetton Group has always believed in a society based on respect for human rights, without any exception. The Company states this firmly in its social campaigns and does it every day at the workplace – from the initiatives implemented in its offices around the world to supplier selection – for the purpose of ensuring equal treatment and respect for diversity: from skin color to gender, from sexual orientation to political and religious opinions. Supply chain management on our website benettongroup.com in several Over the years, Benetton Group has implemented languages. a series of procedures and initiatives designed to ensure that all individuals and entities involved in our Finally, to support suppliers in the operational supply chain are treated fairly and correctly. Respect implementation of the requirements of the Code for human rights is not only an ethical imperative, but of Conduct, the Company circulated the Guidelines also a pressing demand from consumers as well as a for the Benetton Group Code of Conduct for necessary prerequisite for doing business. Manufacturers, specifying Benetton’s expectations regarding safety in the workplace, respect for workers' In confirming its commitment to respecting human rights and environmental protection. The aim is to rights, Benetton Group published a statement in 2019 make the Code of Conduct more understandable and based on Section 54 of the Modern Slavery Act of easier to apply, providing operational solutions and 85 | A people company 2015 concerning the measures adopted to prevent and practical examples that can help suppliers in the proper mitigate the risk of all forms of slavery along the supply management of their sites. chain and to actively promote respect for human rights. Based on the contents of the Code of Conduct Supplier selection and the Guidelines, a targeted training activity was We select our suppliers not only based on product carried out in 2019 for employees involved in quality, competitive prices and transparency, but also on sourcing and quality control activities, with a view to their compliance with social, ethical and environmental raising awareness about social and environmental principles. A list of active suppliers located all over the responsibility issues. world is available on our web site for consultation. CSR Audit www.benettongroup.com/sustainability/supply-chain/ Benetton has implemented an audit program to monitor adherence with the Code of Conduct for Code of Conduct Manufacturers, which applies to all finished garment Any individual or company that establishes a business producers, with particular attention to those located in relationship with us undertakes to comply with the regions where respect for human rights and workers is Benetton Group’s Code of Conduct, founded on considered more at risk. compliance with human rights and protection of Suppliers to be audited are identified jointly by the CSR the environment. The Group’s Code of Conduct Management and the Operations & Sourcing functions; implements the most relevant international regulations, the CSR Management function is entrusted with with particular reference to the UN Business and organizing the audits themselves. Human Rights of June 2011 and the Communication Audits are carried out by globally recognized from the European Commission on the renewed independent auditing firms and based on a checklist strategy on Corporate Social Responsibility of developed internally according to the principles October 2011. For the benefit of active business contained in the Code of Conduct for Manufacturers. partners worldwide, the Code of Conduct is available The checklist includes SA8000 Standard provisions and is designed to verify working conditions, environmental The CSR Audit function carries out audits on all impact, transparency and compliance with the applicable producers of finished products regularly, repeated local and international regulations. In particular, every six months as a maximum and every two years Benetton Group is very sensitive to the protection of as a minimum, according to the results achieved and human rights and has carried out an internal analysis of the need to correct procedures identified as critical potential risks relating to issues such as child and forced in previous audits. labor. Audits are almost exclusively unannounced, for the No significant risks have been identified in the European purpose of obtaining a more objective representation Union, because the legislation adequately protects of the level of compliance of our supply chain as well workers' rights and the compliance controls of the as to enable identification of the most critical various bodies in charge are considered effective; as non-conformities. a preventive measure, Benetton Group is supporting With a view to continuous improvement, Benetton its suppliers in formalizing procedures and sharing supports its suppliers in the remediation process some best practices. All suppliers located outside through a monitoring activity that involves the periodic the European Union, on the other hand, present a forwarding of updated corrective plans and evidence significant risk in terms of respect for fundamental of the resolution of the identified non-conformities. human rights and are therefore subject to precise In 2019, as an active member of the Sustainable controls by means of audits. Apparel Coalition, Benetton Group also launched 86 | A people company Italy 83 suppliers 40% assessed Portugal 4 suppliers 50% assessed Morocco Occasionally, Benetton 15 suppliers collaborated with a few suppliers 73% assessed located in Albania, Bosnia and Spain for the performance of minor production Tunisia processes. Given the occasional nature 102 suppliers 80% assessed of the relationship and the low level of risk associated with these activities, no assessment was carried out locally with regard to the compliance of these plants with the respect of human rights. a test of the FSLM (Facility Social Labor Module) Non-discrimination and freedom of association with ten strategic suppliers in China, who completed Benetton Group believes that every company must the verification process. The module focuses on the commit to rejecting any form of discrimination, verification and promotion of fair and safe working ensuring fair and respectful treatment of its people in conditions along the supply chain and the assessment all circumstances. of effectiveness and efficacy of the social management In particular, in 2019, no employee reports of systems. Benetton intends not only to guarantee and discrimination were received through the Whistleblower give evidence of respect for human rights for its direct service. and indirect workers, but also actively collaborates with In addition, 96% of our suppliers meet the other brands, suppliers, worker representatives and requirements of our Code of Conduct in the matter. associations in order to define a common standard to The non-conformities identified refer to procedural assess social impacts and monitor progress in ensuring aspects, all of which were corrected during the year. safe and respectful working conditions. In 2019, three events were recorded in which there More than 300 suppliers were assessed for social was no worker representation and eight cases in which impacts during the year. Of these, about 70% worker representation was insufficient, failing to meet undertook a process of correcting non-conformities, local legal requirements. while 18 business relationships were interrupted. 87 | A people company Croatia Serbia Romania Moldova Ukraine 15 suppliers 10 suppliers 16 suppliers 1 supplier 2 suppliers 80% assessed 60% assessed 88% assessed 100% assessed 100% assessed Korea 74 suppliers 19% assessed China 88 suppliers 78% assessed Laos India 1 supplier 113 suppliers 100% assessed 86% assessed Turkey Bangladesh Indonesia 16 suppliers 1 supplier 26 suppliers 100% assessed 77% assessed 100% assessed Myanmar 7 suppliers Egypt 100% assessed 11 suppliers Cambodia 91% assessed 5 suppliers 80% assessed Accord on Fire and Building Safety in Bangladesh signatory companies, involving employees and trade In December 2017, Benetton Group confirmed its union associations; adherence to the Accord on Fire and Building Safety in • transparent communication of the list of production Bangladesh, launched in May 2013 following the event facilities, inspection reports and corrective action that is universally remembered as “the tragedy of Rana plans; Plaza”. The Accord, of which Benetton was one of the • the commitment of the signatory companies to ensure first signatories, is an independent initiative involving the effective implementation of the corrective action more than 200 clothing companies worldwide and plans and to maintain ongoing business relations; also involving trade unions, the International Labor • the establishment of democratically elected health Organization (ILO) and various non-governmental and safety committees in all factories to identify the organizations. The Accord, developed to secure all main risks related to workers’ health and safety; apparel manufacturing facilities in Bangladesh, also • the enhancement of workers’ skills through a provides for independent inspections and transparency broad-based training program; of the local textile supply chain. • the implementation of complaint mechanisms and The main points of the agreement include: the right to refuse to work in unsafe conditions. • an independent inspection program supported by the 2017 2018 2019 GRI 414-1 New suppliers that were screened using social criteria 88 | A people company No. of new suppliers 59 128 72 of which: New suppliers screened based on their social impact 37 82 42 Percentage of new suppliers screened based on their social impact 62.7% 64.1% 58.3% GRI 414-2 Negative social impacts in the supply chain and actions taken Total no. of suppliers 677 707 594 of which: Suppliers screened based on their social impact 314 325 350 Suppliers identified as having significant negative social, real and potential impacts in relation to the community 60 59 59 Suppliers identified as having significant negative social, real and potential impacts in relation to the community with which improvement actions were agreed in order to mitigate the social impacts 46 35 41 Percentage of suppliers identified as having significant negative social, real and potential impacts in relation to the community with which improvement actions were agreed in order to mitigate the social impacts 76.7% 59.3% 69.5% Suppliers identified as having significant negative social, real and potential impacts in relation to the community with which relations were terminated after assessment 16 24 18 Percentage of suppliers identified as having significant negative social, real and potential impacts in relation to the community with which relations were terminated after assessment 26.7% 40.7% 30.5% Social communication campaign, developed by Fabrica, covers three key For over thirty years, Benetton Group has been topics, each one referring to a different article of the using its global communication channels to spread Universal Declaration of Human Rights, and includes social messages, aimed at turning the spotlight on three works by artists from different countries to show injustices and problems in our society and stimulating how art can cross borders to facilitate the development a constructive debate to identify solutions. Once again of personal relationships and freedom of expression this year, Benetton Group contributed – through the and to remind us that we are all responsible for initiatives of Fabrica and others – to raising awareness defending and protecting human rights. about certain fundamental issues that are particularly close to our heart. United By United By è un format di campagna sociale lanciato I’m hungry United by is a social campaign format launched in 2016 Fabrica launched the #lavocedeibambini campaign for by Benetton India. In four years it has attracted the Fondazione L'Albero della Vita, a project concentrating attention of the whole world. Last year Benetton India on child poverty in Italy, an emergency situation continued the project and launched two important involving 1 child out of 8. “Daddy, Daddy, why are social campaigns: #UnitedByVote, emphasizing the we poor? I’m hungry,” says a child. Simple, direct and importance of democracy and universal voting rights immediate, the message addresses hunger, but also in a manifesto, and #UnitedByHarmony, which explains evokes hunger for social justice, equality and dignity in a video how simple gestures of compassion and affecting 1.2 million children in Italy every day. mutual understanding can result in peaceful coexistence 89 | A people company in India between people of different religions and In Between backgrounds. In 2019, the United By format obtained In Between is an urban installation that stimulates awards and acknowledgments, including the 2019 interpersonal exchange, making it inevitable: two mobile Images Retail Awards in the Most Admired Retailer of walls in the middle of a pedestrian area restrict the the Year category: Marketing & Promotions, the 2019 space for people to walk and, by creating blind alleys, Big Bang Awards in the Integrated Media Campaigns force individuals to “bump” into each other in an category (Bronze) and the 2019 IPRCCA for the best unpredictable encounter. campaign in the Entertainment & Lifestyle category The In Between initiative was developed during Gianluca (Gold). Vassallo’s workshop at Fabrica in March 2018, with the participation of individuals from various geographical, cultural and working backgrounds, who were asked to contribute to developing an artistic proposal revolving around the theme of integration. The work was developed in the following months and resulted in the definition of the project, which was presented in the streets of the center of Treviso on March 30-31, 2019. #STANDUP4HUMANRIGHTS Two hands entrapped by barbed wire; a man, in the darkness of his exile, arms wide open to reach out to freedom: these are just some of the works included in the Imago Mundi collection, presented as key images of #STANDUP4HUMANRIGHTS, a communication campaign on human rights created for the United Nations High Commission for Human Rights. The The “Naked” photographic project Fabrica was invited by the Italian Paralympic Committee to design a photographic project – Naked – to describe the power of sports, while portraying disability as it really is, rejecting the tyranny of the dominating aesthetic codes and affirming the uniqueness of every individual regardless of shape and thoughts. 12 Paralympic champions participated in the photoshoot organized by photographer Oliviero Toscani, ready to unveil themselves as they are and confirm that it is high time to overcome all cultural and physical barriers. The exhibition is composed of giant-size triptychs. In Toscani’s vision, the athletes are shown in closeup, dressed for competition and naked. 90 | Focus The project was exhibited at Palazzo del Bo in Padua, within the framework of the Festival of Paralympic Culture (November 5-7, 2019), in Piazza del Campidoglio in Rome (December 3-19, 2019) and aims to follow the Paralympic athletes to the next Olympic Games. Courtesy of the Italian Paralympic Committee Photo: Pietro Rizzato Women’s empowerment in India project promoted in collaboration with K. C. Mahindra For some years now, Benetton India has carried out Education Trust, a long-standing Indian humanitarian a series of initiatives designed to promote women’s organization, which has provided access to education empowerment and gender equality in the workplace for more than 200 000 girls and young women. and the outside world. United by Light Sakhi United by Light is a project carried out in collaboration Sakhi means “friend” in Hindi and is a program that with HelpAge India, aimed at restoring independence Benetton India launched in 2016 in favor of a group of elderly women through the treatment of cataracts, of its female employees with a low level of education a disease particularly widespread in India, where there and coming from disadvantaged classes in the is only one ophthalmologist per 100 000 inhabitants. Gurgaon area. Through the program, these women In 2019, the project focused on widows undergoing have access to health checkups, foreign language economic hardship in the city of Vrindavan. In the courses on a weekly basis and craftsmanship labs, thus last two years, free screenings were carried out on increasing their skills and promoting their economic more than 3 500 elderly women as well as about 300 independence. In 2019, the craftsmanship labs surgical procedures, with the subsequent distribution of concentrated on the upcycling of production scraps eyeglasses. to be used for the creation of daily use objects like handbags, vases, carpets and beauty cases. Clothes for a Cause Working in partnership with a network of local non91 | A people company AARHOI governmental organizations such as Samarapan Homes, “AARHOI Wings of Empowerment” is a project CanKids and the Uday Foundation, Benetton India developed in 2017 to improve the health of Indian donates defective or returned garments to the needy women and girls during the menstrual phase, while through the Clothes for a Cause charity initiative. decreasing the ecological footprint of Benetton India. AARHOI relies on the use of production scraps POSH deriving from Benetton garments to create high quality, Since March 2015, Benetton India has adopted the 100% biodegradable cotton sanitary napkins. The Indian law that provides protection to women from pads, produced by a group of 100 dressmakers in sexual harassment in the workplace through creation Bangalore, are soft, easily washed with soap and water of the POSH project. Through POSH (Policy on and can be reused up to 72 times (from 3 to 4 years). Prevention of Sexual Harassment at Workplace). More than 100 000 pads were distributed in the 2017Benetton India ensures that the work environment 2019 three-year period, with the help of the partner promotes equal opportunities and professional growth organizations – HelpAge India, THDC, Child Rights & and that every woman working in the company receives You and NAARI Wellness – active in different regions equal treatment, is treated with dignity and respect and of the country, which also provide concrete help is protected against sexual harassment in the workplace. involving educational support to combat the taboos still widespread in India about menstruations. Sampark Project In the state of Madhya Pradesh, the Bedia community Nanhi Kali follows a tribal tradition whereby adolescent girls and Through the Nanhi Kali project, Benetton India younger girls prostitute themselves with the consent supports the extra-curricular education of 600 of their families. In 2019, Benetton India collaborated students from disadvantaged families in the Indian cities with the Child Rights & You (CRY) NGO to combat this of Gurgaon and Noida, providing them with a complete social scourge and rehabilitate 1 830 young girls in eight study kit, shoes for the school uniforms, stationery different locations, giving them access to education and products and after-school support. Benetton started sustainable employment. supporting Nanhi Kali in 2017. Nanhi Kali is an important 92 | Chi siamo A green company Green is not only the color of the United Colors of Benetton brand. It is a philosophy that has permeated the culture of Benetton Group for decades, when discussions on sustainable development were just starting to take place. Now that the consequences of global warming are evident in our daily lives, environmental protection has become an absolute priority. Our commitment is 360°, from the selection of sustainable raw materials to the reduction of the environmental impact of our activities along the entire production chain, with a view to developing virtuous processes increasingly targeting a circular economy. Sustainable materials 94 | A green company • Wool • Sustainable cotton • Certified down feather • Focus: Benetton on the “wool road” Management of environmental impact • Reduction in the use of chemical pollutants • Sustainable logistics • Headquarters and stores • Supply chain • The commitment to the environment in India • Go Green • Focus: Verde Campus 95 | A green company Towards a circular economy • Investment in quality • B-Care Sustainable materials Benetton Group has always paid special attention to the selection of raw materials, with a predilection for the most sustainable ones. Today, 80% of the fibers in our garments are of natural origin and therefore have a lower impact on the environment. In addition, about half of our garments are made of monofiber material, making recycling easier. Our commitment continues to focus on the selection of new materials with a lower environmental impact. GRI 301-1 Raw materials Unit 2017 2018 2019 Total t 22 851 21 846 23 694 Renewable Cotton* t 16 649 15 539 17 190 Wool* t 851 1 196 1 047 Linen* t 181 334 384 Mixed (natural fibers) t 169 234 194 Non-renewable Artificial fibers t 1 260 1 004 1 173 Syntethic fibers t 2 811 2 770 2 597 Mixed (natural/artificial/man-made fibers) t 930 769 1 109 * Pure raw materials > 35% Figure is referred to Benetton Group S.r.l., Benetton India Private Ltd. and Benetton Korea Inc. For the 3-year period Korea’s consumption is limited to direct procurement. For years 2017 and 2018 India's consumption is limited to domestic production (only cotton). 2018 figures have been adjusted due to the improvement of the information monitoring and collection processes. 96 | A green company Wool Sustainable cotton Benetton Group’s core business is knitwear and From polo shirts to sweaters, from t-shirts to outstanding quality wool is a must. In 2019, we Undercolors branded items, cotton is another implemented and confirmed a series of initiatives fundamental fiber in our collections. For this reason, to obtain certification of the quality of our wool, we are committed to increasing our sustainable a fiber that can be regenerated, and to consolidate cotton supply to produce quality items with a reduced our position as global stakeholder for all the decisions environmental footprint. that involve the queen of all of the fibers we use. Organic cotton Woolmark In 2019, organic cotton, cultivated according to Since 2017, the quality of our wool is certified by the principles of organic agriculture – therefore Woolmark, a global authority for wool. Its brand without the use of GMOs and generating a lower on our products provides assurance to consumers environmental impact – accounted for 4.4% of the on the fact that our products have been rigorously overall production of all of our cotton products. tested and stand out for their absolute quality. IWTO In 2017, we were the first fashion company in Europe In the Undercolors Spring to join the IWTO, the International Wool Textile Summer 2020 collection we Organization. As members, we will be constantly will use only organic cotton updated on the latest news in the industry, we will for Baby Underwear and Men’s promote a dialogue with the other players, share costs Underwear. The same strategy and decisions, reduce risks, maximize resources and will be extended in Fall Winter influence the choices that shape the future of the to Women’s Underwear. wool market at the global level. Recycled cotton Certified down feather In 2019, Benetton started using recycled cotton In May 2017, United Colors of Benetton obtained – mainly derived from the re-use of preand postResponsible Down Standard (RDS) certification, a consumption textile scraps – as a more sustainable protocol that guarantees that the down feathers alternative to traditional cotton. used in the Benetton and Sisley collections come from geese and ducks reared in accordance with the BCI cotton principles and criteria of animal wellbeing. RDS verifies In 2017, we joined BCI (Better Cotton Initiative), – independently, through the evaluation of neutral the world’s largest project dedicated to cotton and specialist bodies – all aspects that refer to animal sustainability. According to the prescriptions of the farming and care, including down feather traceability program, we started procurement processes for from its origin to the final product. cotton cultivated and collected by farmers trained to The objective is to reassure consumers on the fact minimize the use of fertilizers and pesticides, use water that their purchase contributes to improving the living and the soil in a sustainable way and comply with the conditions of the geese and ducks involved in the principles of equity in labor relationships. In 2019, the production process. percentage of BCI cotton totaled 54% (calculated as a percentage of total annual cotton use), a significant increase from the previous year’s 23 percent. 97 | A green company The Fall Winter 2020 collections of our brands will feature a jacket made with wadding fiber, a sustainable material obtained from the recycling of PET plastic bottles. 54%: percentage of BCI cotton contained in our collections Our objective is to use only sustainable cotton (organic, recycled and BCI) for 100% of our collections by 2025. Benetton on the “wool road” In 2019, Benetton Group invested massively in wool, one of the main fibers used in its collections. In April, the Benetton Studios hosted “Wool in Excellence”, an international congress organized by the International Wool Textile Organization, with the participation of over 350 players operating in the global wool industry. The congress was an opportunity to confirm Benetton Group's commitment to sustainability and transparency of the wool supply chain, while contributing to promoting dialogue on important current issues, such as recycling, yarn traceability and animal wellbeing. For the Fall Winter 2019-20 season, United Colors of Benetton presented “Wool 98 | Focus so Cool”, a partnership with The Woolmark company, which involved the entire sales network for the purpose of reaching out to increasingly demanding consumers, who pay a great deal of attention to the quality of the garments they wear, the origin of the fibers and their environmental impact. The Woolmark certified jerseys are produced with Italian yarns in 100% extra fine Merino wool yarns, a completely natural and renewable fiber. Photo: Benetton Group Management of environmental impact Production, logistics and stores: every link in our business has an impact on the environment. Benetton Group is committed to fighting climate change and global warming with projects and initiatives aimed at reducing energy consumption, the use of polluting chemicals and CO2 emissions. Reduction in the use of chemical process subject to assessment year by year. Overcoming pollutants the traditional “pass or fail” logic, Higg FEM provides In 2019, Benetton Group continued to concentrate its benchmarks that allow companies to identify weaknesses efforts on eliminating the most harmful chemicals from and possible actions to be taken. its production processes. Finally, the FEM enabled the Group to quantify the impact of wastewater along the value chain: in 2019, ZDHC Wastewater Guidelines the plants of Olimpias, a strategic supplier to Benetton In 2019, the wet process water testing programs that Group, discharged 1 312 526 m3 of water. Nearly the Benetton Group started in 2013 were supported by total amount of wastewater was conveyed to treatment the adoption of the ZDHC Wastewater Guidelines, a plants. The Group used the ZDHC Wastewater protocol shared and developed by the ZDHC (Zero Guidelines standard to measure and monitor the quality Discharge of Hazardous Chemical) working group of water sent to the treatment plants and in 2019 of which Benetton Group is a founding member. none of the water quality parameters’ thresholds were Recognized as the industry’s best practice, the protocol exceeded. facilitated the dialogue between the brands and the suppliers, significantly expanding its reach as a reference. Detox Commitment 99 | A green company Evidence of this is the great number of production sites In 2019, Benetton Group took further steps towards the (wet processes belonging to the Benetton supply chain goal set seven years ago when it signed up to the Detox dyeworks and laundries) that disclosed the results of Commitment launched by Greenpeace that provides the analyses carried out on water, which has quadrupled for the total elimination of 11 groups of chemicals, the since the protocol’s first implementation. adoption of a Restricted Substances List (RSL) and the publication of the wastewater test outcomes relating SAC and Higg Index to suppliers involved in the wet processes. In 2019, In 2017, Benetton joined SAC (Sustainable Apparel Benetton Group focused on consolidating the results Coalition), the largest alliance promoting sustainable obtained in the previous year and on defining its future production that includes fashion, footwear and textile strategy. brands. As SAC members, starting from 2018 we began Greenpeace acknowledged Benetton’s leadership in to use the Higg Index , a series of tools that enable 2016 and 2018 in promoting transparency, monitoring its brands and retailers to measure their performance supply chain and replacing chemicals with less impacting in terms of sustainability. Thanks to the Higg Index, ones; in 2019, the Group’s objective of disclosing at we assessed a significant percentage (approximately least 80% of the wastewater test outcomes relating to 80% by garments volume) of wet processes using the suppliers involved in the “wet processes” was successfully FEM (Facility Environmental Module), which monitors surpassed, reaching a total of 90%. the adoption of environmental management systems, Benetton is strongly committed to cleaning up the supply the use of water and energy, the emissions into the chain according to its sustainability strategy, leveraging atmosphere and the use of chemicals. on supplier education and participation, while promoting The Higg FEM includes about 80 questions based on the adoption of increasingly effective and shared tools, an application-oriented principle and is organized as investing in excellence and increasingly involving all a supplier self-assessment. It can also be verified by stakeholders, both inside and outside the Company. a third party entity approved by SAC. There are no monitoring visits or follow-up audits, but the supplier is engaged in an ongoing improvement and transparency > 90%: for goods that would have been shipped entirely by air transport due to a maritime transit time that was wet process considered inadequate based on the envisaged delivery date. This mode allows goods to be transported for test outcomes an initial leg by cargo ships in containers, and thus results in reduced emissions compared to cargo flight transport. Transport then continues with air transport published for the final portion of the journey, with an estimated 50% reduction in CO2 emissions. In 2019 we also tested train transport for more than 300 containers from the ports of Genoa and La Spezia Sustainable logistics to Padua (continuing with road transport to reach the Benetton Group’s business model puts the consumer Castrette site), as an alternative to road transport at the center of all company processes. This approach (diesel oil or methane), with an estimated 60% contributed to the development of our logistics strategy, reduction in CO2 emissions. which hinges on service customization based on the Finally, since 2018, dedicated orders produced for needs of the points of sale, a reduced environmental clothing destined for Mexico, one of our main foreign impact and the attainment of a higher level of garment markets, allowed us to anticipate delivery in Castrette traceability. The “End-to-End Visibility Control Tower” and convert a percentage of air transport into a 100 | A green company allows to manage the supply chain from one single fast maritime service, with a 97% reduction in CO2 observation point and to identify, at any time, any emissions in outbound and 35% reduction in CO2 Benetton product aggregation with a level of detail that emissions end-to-end. reaches single SKUs. In 2019, we shipped a part of the volumes to Mongolia Since December 2019, Benetton logistics has been with a combined road and train transport system (in managing stocks, product picking and shipping of all alternative to the usual cargo flight and train transport). United Colors of Benetton and Sisley e-commerce This solution, already tested in 2018, was increased by orders from the Castrette hub, integrating end-to-end 25% in 2019, with an estimated 90% reduction in CO2 B2C flow which is directed to the final consumer. emissions. Intermodal transportation In 2019, we confirmed our commitment to intermodal transportation and, in general, to the use of the least 90%: environmentally impacting transportation means with a view to reducing CO2 emissions linked to our logistical reduction in and distribution activities. In particular, we decreased our reliance on air shipments while increasing our CO2 emissions reliance on less-polluting rail transport. on imports of As to imports of goods from China, we have consolidated the use of the train service from goods from Shanghai/Dalian to Warsaw (Poland), continuing with road transport to reach the Castrette factories, China resulting resulting in an approximately 90% reduction in CO2 emissions. from train/road After the first tests carried out in 2018, we have also consolidated the combined cargo ship and flight system transport Methane Packaging Also in 2019, we consolidated the use of methane Thanks to the use of reusable metal baskets, Benetton fueled vehicles in inbound flow of merchandise from Group saves over 1 300 tons of cardboard every the ports of Genoa/La Spezia/Trieste/Venice to year, corresponding to approximately 20 000 trees. In Castrette, reaching 10% of the total volume. Transport addition, for the purpose of fully exploiting batch size, on methane fueled vehicles resulted in 10%-15% CO2 we use boxes of different heights. emissions reductions compared to the use of diesel oil In 2019 a team was established dedicated to the fueled vehicles. analysis of alternative solutions to plastic packaging. The objective is to identify an eco-sustainable Saturation of transportation alternative to the polybag packaging used to protect Thanks to the elimination of pallets, we have optimized United Colors of Benetton items as they move along packaging storage on our vehicles, eliminating one truck the supply chain, during production. The options in five for the transportation of our merchandise in Italy considered include paper, recycled plastic and and Europe. This and other measures enabled us to compostable plastic. In 2019, Benetton India replaced reduce CO2 emissions linked to the transportation of over three and a half million plastic bags, of all sizes, with merchandise on the road by 25%, resulting in 511 tons bioplastic ones composed of a biodegradable resin of of CO2 “saved” every year. organic origin. CO2 emissions reductions Unit 2017 2018 2019 GRI 305-3 Scope 3 Emissions Logistics t CO2 25 744 24 580 23 783 101 | A green company GRI 305-4 Emissions intensity g Co2/item x km 0.087 0.027 0.035 2019 figure includes Benetton India Pvt. Ltd. emissions. Increased intensity in 2019 reflects air transport consequence of a greater use of passenger flights exports. The reduced percentage of this transport compared to cargo flights. mode resulted in increased emissions as a GRI 301-1 Packaging Unit 2017 2018 2019 Total t 5 553 5 010 4 411 Renewable Paper and cardboard t 4 563 4 127 3 591 Non-renewable Polyethylene (PE) t 989 881 819 Iron t 1 2 1 Figure is referred to Benetton Group S.r.l., Benetton India Private Ltd. and Benetton Korea Inc. Benetton Group is currently studying a new packaging option FSC certified paper for online purchase shipments, Catalogues, brochures and other paper-based including biodegradable selfcommunication materials used by the Benetton sealing envelopes. Group are made with paper certified by FSC. Forest Stewardship Council is a global trademark identifying products derived from controlled forests managed according to social and environmental sustainability The Group is also analyzing the criteria. FSC paper is also used for the store shoppers possibility of delivering online and treated with water-based inks. Cardboard suppliers purchases in big cities like Milan are also selected according to these criteria: four in and Rome by bicycle, thus six are FSC certified. 80% of our cardboard boxes are helping reduce air pollution made of recycled material, resulting in 1 800 tons of and delivery times. cardboard and 2 340 tons of CO2 emissions “saved”. Headquarters and stores Since 2015, Benetton Group has carried out energy The Group is evaluating diagnosis tests on a representative sample of stores allowing consumers to choose, and in the headquarters of Ponzano and Castrette. before completing a purchase These evaluations were repeated also in 2019 online, between home delivery (regarding energy consumption in the previous year) or in store pickup, in line with 102 | A green company and provided a snapshot of the energy consumption sustainability criteria, with a structure of the areas analyzed, enabling the Company view to increasing customer to identify the major criticalities and consequently choice awareness. define and develop a structured energy efficiency plan. Thanks to a project including the redistribution of headquarters. Similar efforts were made to improve workspaces and plant management and revamping, also energy efficiency in the stores with the installation of in 2019 the Benetton Group was again successful in highly efficient air conditioning systems, the use of LED optimizing and reducing energy consumption in its lamps and the installation of self-reading energy meters. GRI 302-1 Energy consumption Unit 2017 2018 2019 Energy consumption in the headquarters kWh 18 274 311 18 776 407 17 537 998 GJ 65 788 67 595 63 137 Energy consumption in the stores kWh 37 392 093 39 578 968 43 588 522 GJ 134 612 142 484 156 919 Total energy consumption kWh 55 666 403 58 355 374 61 126 520 GJ 200 399 210 079 220 055 Total natural gas* m3 1 331 664 1 210 994 1 251 127 GJ 46 787 42 691 44 169 Diesel oil l 57 351 441 914 396 432 GJ 2 062 15 856 14 224 Gasoline l 22 361 38 221 33 843 GJ 732 1 252 1 108 District heating kWh 131 000 121 825 132 000 GJ 472 439 475 Total energy consumption GJ 250 452 270 317 280 032 * The breakdown of CO2 of the consumption of natural gas between headquarters and stores is not available. 2017-2018 figures have been adjusted due to the improvement of the information monitoring and collection processes. Non-commercial investments and air conditioning system of the Data Center and Over one-half of the non-commercial investments made resulted in a reduced consumption of approximately in 2019 targeted plant safety improvement. Moreover, in 750 000 kWh/year. In 2019, the new power supply some of the areas of the Ponzano and Castrette factories system for the Data Center was completed (with the we continued the replacement of the lighting with energyintegration of a second modern UPS), and is expected efficient, long-lasting LED bulbs. The re-lamping activity and to reduce energy consumption by approximately correlated energy efficiency plan will be continued in 2020. 120 000 kWh in 2020. Data Center Renewable energy Work began in 2012 and continued through 2019 to Since 2017, the energy feeding the entire Benetton improve the efficiency of the Ponzano Data Center, campus and 67% of the stores in Italy is generated by absorbing about 7% of the total energy of the campus. certified renewable sources (hydro and ocean). These interventions mainly concerned the power supply GRI 305-1 / 305-2 Emissions Unit 2017 2018 2019 Scope 1 Emissions (GRI 305-1) Consumption of natural gas in the headquarters t CO2 2 615 2 388 2 471 and in the directly operated stores* Diesel oil t CO2 152 1 167 1 047 Gasoline t CO2 54 92 81 F-gas t CO2 488 103 | A green company Total t CO2 2 821 3 647 4 087 Scope 2 Emissions (GRI 305-1) – Location Based District heating t CO2 77 23 23 Energy consumption in the headquarters t CO2 6 953 6 158 5 701 Energy consumption in the directly operated stores t CO2 14 865 14 636 17 119 Total t CO2 21 895 20 817 22 843 Scope 2 Emissions (GRI 305-1) – Market Based District heating t CO2 77 23 23 Energy consumption in the headquarters t CO2 487 1 464 1 553 Energy consumption in the directly operated stores t CO2 12 849 14 423 16 490 Total t CO2 13 413 15 910 18 066 * The breakdown of CO2 of the consumption of natural gas between headquarters and stores is not available. 2017-2018 figures have been adjusted due to the improvement of the information monitoring and collection processes. Increased energy consumption and emissions reflects committed to providing a more accurate account of its more complete information; in fact, Benetton Group is impact year after year. Waste management regard to waste management and its ethical and Benetton Group operates in compliance with the environmental consequences. industry’s regulations and behaves responsibly with Total waste production 2017 2018 2019 Unit Total % Total % Total % Total t 1 753 100 2 202 100 2 112 100 of which: Recurring waste t 1 703 97 2 167 98 2 083 99 of which segregated t 1 438 82 1 770 80 1 777 84 of which non segregated t 316 18 432 20 335 16 Occasional waste t 50 3 35 2 29 1 2017-2018 figures have been adjusted due to the improvement of the information monitoring and collection processes. Store In 2019, we continued to develop the London store In 2020, we will launch the concept throughout Europe, characterized by furniture “B-Green” project, a new 0,00 made 0,01 of 0,02 natural 0,03 materials 0,04 0,05 and 0,06 green 0,07 paneling, with 0,08 sustainability-based store limited use of plasterboard. This effort integrates recent format characterized by the activities targeted to energy efficiency and implemented use of innovative materials, the 104 | A green company in the “On Canvas” store concept, which features LED transformation of the shop lamps, high efficiency air conditioning systems, FSC windows in digital environments (Forest API 2017Stewardship Council) certified wood furniture 0.0678 and increased energy efficiency. and API Leed 2018 certified ceramic. 0.0608 API 2019 0.0614 Energy consumption reduction World API 2017 0.0672 The API (Area Performance Index) index measures 0,00 0,01 0,02 0,03 0,04 0,05 0,06 0,07 0,08 annual energy consumption rates of a store in relation API 2018 0.0586 to its sale surface and the total of opening hours in one year. The index is used by the Group to monitor API 2019 0.0576 and compare energy consumption rates of the directly managed stores. 0,0 0,2 0,4 0,6 0,8 1,0 Europe API 2017 0.0678 API 2018 0.0608 API 2019 0.0614 The monitoring of store energy consumption has measuring devices for the main energy consumption progressively improved over the years, allowing a centers. The reduction in the API index is particularly API 2017 0.0672 different interpretation of previously collected data remarkable in the countries where the sales network is API 2018 0.0586 and a comprehensive analysis of the performance of more stable (including Italy and Spain). For the future, API 2019 0.0 576 the stores in Europe and in the world in 2019. The Benetton Group is committed to further improving the API index shows a progressive downward trend that quality of information and the store data monitoring 0,0 0,2 0,4 0,6 0,8 1,0 is evidence of the effective store refurbishment and process in order to optimize energy consumption restyling, including high-efficiency air conditioning through an automated management system. systems, re-lamping systems and the installation of Supply chain dedicated sessions, joined the Earth Hour and the World Environment Day celebrations and encouraged Renewable energy employees to participate in the “Adopt a plant” initiative In 2019, in its Tunisian site, our strategic supplier in collaboration with environmental organizations such Olimpias installed a solar energy heating system and as WWF. launched a feasibility study for the implementation of a photovoltaic system. Go Green 1 000 winners were drawn from among the Italian Wasatex Project and Spanish customers of United Colors of Benetton Developed in 2014-2016 thanks to EU funding, the who made a purchase worth at least Euro 80 between Wasatex project allowed the textile factory of the November 21 and December 22, 2019. They were Olimpias Tekstil Group in Osijek, Croatia, to reuse invited to participate in Go Green, an initiative purified wastewater in its industrial production cycle. developed in partnership between Treedom and In 2019, the plant was able to reuse up to 60% Benetton. Treedom is the only website that allows of the purified wastewater. Olimpias Tekstil is a longpeople and companies to plant trees, give them standing partner of Benetton Group. names and follow their stories online. It also finances the farmers taking care of the trees and follows their The commitment stories, too. The Go Green winners were each given to the environment in India the opportunity to plant a tree and received a 15% 105 | A green company Our commitment to making our supply chains more discount on a tree to be given as a gift to somebody and more environmentally friendly also involves else. The Benetton forest in Kenya, resulting from overseas locations. In 2019, for example, Benetton the initiative, counted 1 570 trees in February 2020 India implemented a series of actions aimed at making and contributed to a 254 000 kg reduction in CO2 its plants increasingly energy efficient, encouraging emissions. paper and water saving in the workplace and reducing the amount of waste sent to landfills. Some of the initiatives include a collaboration with carpooling In 2020, we will launch the Green companies to reduce the size of the Company fleet, the Fridays, one Friday every month, replacement of all paper cups with Chinaware mugs and in which consumers making the migration from CFL to LED bulbs. In addition, for online purchases of United the purpose of promoting a culture of environmental Colors of Benetton products will sustainability in the workplace, Benetton India organized have the opportunity to make a small donation to an association engaged in environmental protection. Verde Campus Launched in 2019, Verde Campus is the project that aims to make Benetton Group’s headquarters more efficient and sustainable through a series of initiatives targeted to employees and promoting good practices in the environmental field. In the spring, the Company launched a communication campaign in the common areas of its Ponzano and Castrette sites to raise employees’ awareness on energy saving, encouraging them to reduce the use of water, electricity, paper and ink in the workplace. The Group also distributed separate waste bins in the same areas, encouraging employees to separate waste according to its components and to pay increasing attention to waste 106 | Focus management. To discourage the use of plastic, the Group introduced glass bottles, cups made of compostable material in the coffee vending machines and distributed a water bottle to every employee, personalized with the employee's name and refillable at the micro-filtered water dispensers available in the Company’s common areas. Verde Campus is also a section of the Company’s Intranet, where employees can find updates on new campus sustainability-oriented initiatives. Towards a circular economy Also in 2019, the Benetton Group continued and launched a series of initiatives intended to improve the circular supply chain, from design to production, consumption and product end-cycle. The aim is to develop a mediumto long-term “circular economy” strategy: a self-regenerating production model limiting the quantity of inbound materials and energy, while concurrently reducing waste and outbound losses. Investment in quality B-Long In 2019, we continued our efforts to reduce product In 2019, the B-Long strategic project was continued, volume while increasing the quality of our products aimed at ensuring compliance with Benetton quality and materials, with the ultimate goal of persuading standards and the durability of the materials that end consumers to buy fewer but better quality items, make up the garments produced by our suppliers. moving away from fast fashion. Thanks to the extension In particular, B-Long allows us to monitor the bases, of controls on supplier laboratories, Benetton Group is derivatives and color variants of fabrics from 65 progressively shifting quality assessment upstream, i.e. vendors. With the help of certified third-party from the finished product to the production process. laboratories, we tested 46% of our vendors involved As a result of the reorganization of the production in the development of our Fall Winter 2019 collection chain, in the past one year and a half we managed to and 67% of those involved in the Spring Summer 2019 reduce by 35% our main supplier Olimpias’s second collection. The results recorded were positive. The choice items. tests also proved useful as a form of cross-checking 107 | A green company between different production plants and optimization of the project approval and material procurement processes. -35% B-Care In 2019, we published a revised version of the B-Care second guide in the Inside section of our benetton.com website. Under the slogan “Wear. Care. Repair”, the choice guide includes a series of written instructions and video tutorials that explain how to simply take care of one’s items garments at home in order to make them last much longer and contribute to reducing the carbon footprint of Benetton products. In 2020, sustainability will become a cornerstone of our collections and we will pay more and more attention to designing garments with distinctive characteristics of recyclability and reduced environmental impact. A numbers company In 2019 volatility was endemic in the fashion industry forcing companies to increase resilience. The same resilience was put to a hard test at the beginning of 2020 with the outbreak of Covid-19 resulting in a global health crisis with increased pessimism in all sectors, financial markets on the brink of collapsing, plummeting demand and difficulties in managing the whole supply chain. Despite receding expectations of a widespread recovery, Benetton Group continues to work on its relaunch program, leveraging on 2019 results. In 2019, the improved economic-financial performance went hand in hand with the pursuit of the objectives set in terms of sustainability, digital transformation and innovation, i.e. the three major themes for all future-oriented fashion companies. 110 | A numbers company Financial capital capital Production 111 | A numbers company Financial capital In January 2019, Benetton Group adopted IFRS 16 Leases. This standard, which has had a significant impact on the financial statements, provides for a single accounting model for lease contracts where the lessee is required to recognize the right of use of the leased asset (“right of use”) as an asset and the financial obligation as a liability (“lease liability”) through the discounting of net present asset payments. This accounting model leads to a reduction in operating costs (lease payments) against an increase in depreciation and financial charges. In 2019, Benetton Group consolidated and undertook measures and initiatives designed to relaunch the Company with actions implemented in all strategic areas: from the distribution network to products and the digital channels. This is still a phase of adjustment and the objective is to reach growth in the future. GRI 201-1 Value generated and distributed by Benetton (thousand Euro) 2017 2018 2019 Economic value generated 1 341 314 1 304 758 1 190 101 Economic value distributed 1 397 451 1 334 651 1 124 781 Operating costs 1 126 330 1 082 198 846 189 Value distributed to employees 232 263 223 820 222 668 Value distributed to investors 15 720 13 918 35 581 Value distributed to P.A. 20 751 13 223 19 272 Value distributed communities 2 384 1 493 1 071 Total retained economic value (56 137) (29 893) 65 320 112 | A numbers company Economic value generated and distribuited (thousand Euro) 2017 1 341 314 2018 1 304 758 2019 1 190 101 Economic value generated Economic value distributed: Operating costs To employees To capital providers To Public Administration To the community Total economic value retained The economic value generated by Benetton amounts to These results are partly offset by positive growth in approximately Euro 1 190 million, the economic value e-commerce and improved margins on collections, distributed totals Euro 1 124 million and the economic particularly the Fall/Winter 2019 collection, value retained is equal to approximately Euro 65 million. characterized by higher quality and innovative and The reduction in the economic value generated is sustainable items. attributable to a negative trend in net sales, which Below is a description of the main events that occurred were affected both by a reduction in the commercial in the year: perimeter and by adverse weather conditions during the • restructuring of the sales network with the shutting season, with a reduction in volumes sold both down of excessively big or non-performing stores, in the direct and indirect channel. maintaining control in strategic commercial locations; • a strong cost control policy in line with the provisions Italy, of poorly performing stores. of the Three-Year Plan, including a reduction in the The Group’s exposure to capital investors increased: cost of sold items attributable to the lower volume of financial charges reflect the impact generated by the sales of current collections and the rationalization of new lease reporting methods, short-term financial the commercial perimeter, followed by a strict control debt and the hedging of exchange rate risks. Net of of overheads in the pursuit of improving the efficiency the effect resulting from the application of IFRS 16, of operating processes; the value distributed to capital investors did not change • a streamlining activity and revision of the tools used substantially. for communication to end consumers with a view The total economic value retained is equal to Euro 65 to focusing investments on strategies designed to million, representing resources that can be invested in support the relaunch of the brand identity. the Group’s growth and relaunch project. The Covid-19 epidemic, which broke out at the Despite the reduced economic value generated, the beginning of 2020, generated uncertainties with value distributed to employees has remained essentially extremely serious implications for personal health stable in absolute terms. This is the result of the and safety and economic damages that are currently combined effect between the opening of new directly very difficult to quantify. Benetton Group is taking all operated stores in the European region and increased measures deemed appropriateSisley to safeguard the health labour costs in India as a result of the applicable 132 of employees, partners, suppliers and(11%)consumers with local regulations, offset by reduced costs due to the a view to limiting the spread of the virus in the regions 113 | A numbers company downsizing of the direct sales network, particularly in affected by the infection. UCB 1 016 (89%) 2019 net sales by brand 2019 net sales by geographical area (million Euro) (million Euro) Rest of the world 299 (26%) Italy Sisley 377 (33%) 132 (11%) UCB 1 016 (89%) Rest of Europe 472 (41%) Rest of the world 299 (26%) Italy 377 (33%) Production capital GRI 204-1 Value of procured products (Euro) 2017 2018Sisley 2019 EMEA 287 045 960 47% 265 281 050 46%566 (13%) 277 967 813 53% Asia 324 998 313 53% 313 659 457 54% 245 320 342 47% Rest of the world 3 418 931 1% 2 187 476 0% 440 0% Total 615 463 204 581 127 983 523 288 595 UCB In 2019, Benetton Group confirmed its sourcing 3 902as(87%) and respond quickly to market needs well as target strategy, prioritizing suppliers located in the EMEA improved efficiency in logistics. region, which account for 53% of the total number Lastly, in 2019, the Group ended its production of suppliers. Maintaining supplier balance enables activities through local suppliers in Japan, while the Group to increase control over the supply chain, maintaining production in India and Korea active to reduce product development and manufacturing time better meet the style and needs of local consumers. Italy FOS + IOS DOS 1 142 114 114 | A numbers company 2018 1 256 2019 1 249 FOS + IOS DOS 1 147 102 Rest of Europe FOS + IOS DOS 988 362 2018 1 350 2019 1 200 FOS + IOS DOS 834 366 Rest of the world FOS + IOS DOS 1 383 729 2018 2 112 2019 2 019 FOS + IOS DOS 1 263 756 2019 Benetton Group distribution network The broader definition of production capital also (no. of stores) Sisley includes the Group’s distribution network, which is 566 (13%) currently subject to a relaunch strategy in order to offer Sisley consumers an innovative shopping experience in line 566 (13%) with the DNA of the Group’s brands. The Group is also pursuing a progressive readjustment of its commercial UCB network by virtue of its new strategic positioning 3 902 (87%) towards an averagely higher segment, with collections UCB characterised by increased attention to product quality 3 902 (87%) and brand identity. In the upcoming future, Benetton Group will further focus on the profitability of its stores with a view to reorganizing the network, giving priority to store formats with high profitability by sales surface in strategic commercial locations. The combination of the physical and digital worlds will also be consolidated by the continuous development and updating of the Italy omnichannel strategy with a view to accompanying FOS + IOS DOS shoppers along the entire customer journey. 1 142 114 115 | A numbers company Italy 2018 1 256 FOS + IOS DOS 2019 1 142 1141 249 FOS + IOS DOS 2018 1 147 102 1 256 2019 1 249 FOS + IOS DOS 1 147 102 Rest of Europe FOS + IOS DOS 988 362 2018 Rest of Europe 1 350 2019 FOS + IOS DOS 1 200 988 362 FOS + IOS DOS 2018 834 366 1 350 2019 1 200 FOS + IOS DOS 834 366 Rest of the world FOS + IOS DOS 1 383 729 2018 2 112 Rest of the world 2019 2 019 FOS + IOS DOS FOS1 +383 IOS DOS729 1 263 756 2018 2 112 2019 2 019 FOS + IOS DOS 1 263 756 Appendix Methodological notes Benetton Group’s Integrated Report illustrates how value is created over time through the connections between financial and non-financial factors, and the business’s primary sustainability performance indicators. The principles and content of the “International <IR> Framework” issued in December 2013 by the International Integrated Reporting Council (IIRC) were taken into account for the drafting of the Integrated Report. The report was also prepared in accordance with the “GRI Sustainability Reporting Standards” defined in 2016 by the Global Reporting Initiative (GRI), in accordance with the Core Option. In line with the GRI standard indications, Benetton Group has mapped all of its stakeholders and conducted a rigorous materiality analysis to identify the aspects that have a significant impact on its ability to create value over time. The issues identified were also used as a key to guide the Group’s sustainability strategy (see the chapter “The materiality matrix and relevant themes”, page 34). Reporting perimeter and sustainability context actions and characteristics. The process of reporting This is the third edition of Benetton Group’s Integrated the information and quantitative data was improved 118 | Appendix Methodological notes Report. It contains a description of initiatives and through the implementation of a software tool and activities carried out during calendar year 2019, as well structured so as to ensure data comparability over as performance trends during the three years from time, where possible, in order to provide an accurate 2017 to 2019, if available. interpretation of the information and a complete view to all stakeholders interested in trends regarding Performance indicators are gathered and reported on Benetton’s performance. an annual basis. The information reported refers to Benetton Group Calculation methods S.r.l. and its subsidiaries in Italy and abroad. Details of the methods used to calculate certain indicators reported in this document are provided The reporting perimeter coincides with the above, below. The data referred to 2019 are the best possible except for: estimate with the information available at the time • figures related to Sabbia Ltd (commercial company of the drafting of this Report. based in Cyprus), acquired during 2019, for which only indicators for the current year are available; Retention after parental leave • indicators 302-1, 305-1 e 305-2, that do not The retention rate after parental leave is calculated include energy consumption for headquarters based as the number of workers employed 12 months after in France, Germany, Switzerland and UK, for which returning from maternity/paternity leave compared consumption figures are not available. to the number of employees who took parental leave For 2019 Benetton Pars P.J.S.C. (Iran) has been during previous years. excluded from the reporting perimeter due to the strong reduction of activity in 2019. Injury rates Details of the methods of calculation used for injury Benetton Group S.r.l. has its headquarters in via Villa rates are provided below: Minelli, in Ponzano Veneto (Treviso), while its industrial • Lost day rate: number of working days lost due to complex is located in via della Cartiera 1, in Castrette di injury/hours worked x 1 000; Villorba (Treviso). • Injury rate: number of injuries/hours worked x 1 000 000. Principles for ensuring report quality The rates for all three years have been calculated for The information reported was gathered with the aim of permanent employees only and exclude interns and providing a balanced and clear picture of the Company’s other staff on temporary contracts. For the lost day rate, the lost days by injury were calculated as calendar emission factors reported in the Defra tables available days from the day the incident occurred (unless the for the 2017-2018-2019 three-year period. latter was worked in part) and include the days lost for commuting injuries. Scope 3 indirect emissions: for the calculation of CO2 emissions generated by transportation for logistics Greenhouse gas emissions purposes, a methodology developed by TK Blue, an Greenhouse gas emissions were calculated using the international non-financial rating agency specialized in principles indicated in the ISO 14064-1 international transport, was used. standard. In particular, the only gas considered was carbon dioxide (CO2). The emission factors used to calculate the CO2 emissions disclosed in the Report were determined in the following way: Scope 1 direct emissions: the emissions related to the total consumption of natural gas and diesel oil for the heating of the head offices and global direct stores and 119 | Appendix Methodological notes gasoline and diesel oil for the company vehicles were determined using the emission factor reported in the table of national standard parameters published by the Italian Ministry for the Environment for 2017, 2018 and 2019. Since 2019, the calculation of Scope 1 emissions also includes data regarding refrigerant gas leaks from air conditioning or cooling systems installed at the Italian campus and in the Italian stores. Fluorinated gas emissions were calculated using the emission factors shown in the 2019 Defra tables. Scope 2 indirect emissions: indirect emissions relate to electricity use and to district heating. The emissions connected with the consumption of electricity are calculated according to the location-based and marketbased approach. For the calculation of the locationbased emissions the emission factors reported in the tables published by Terna were used regarding the international comparisons available for 2017 (the most recent version) based on Enerdata statistics, used for the calculation of the indirect emissions in 2019. Conversely, the factors used to calculate indirect emissions regarding 2017-2018 energy consumption derive from the previous Terna table (2016), as it was the most updated version at the time in which the calculation was made (2018 reporting cycle). For the calculation of market-based emissions, the residual mixes reported in the “European Residual Mixes” document, published by AIB and available for the years 2017-2018, were used, where available. The emissions linked to district heating were calculated using the GRI content index GRI Disclosure Page number Omission Standard GRI 102: GENERAL DISCLOSURES 2016 Organizational profile 102-1 Name of the organization 118 102-2 Primary brands, products, and/or services 17; 45-53 102-3 Location of the organization’s headquarters 118 102-4 Countries in which the organization operates 17; 28-29 102-5 Nature of ownership and legal form 28-29; 118 102-6 Markets served 62; 113-115 102-7 Scale of the organization 10-11; 72; 112-115 102-8 Information on employees and other workers 76 102-9 Description of the supply chain (number of suppliers, volumes 85-88; 99; 105; 114 and sourcing markets) 102-10 Significant changes during the reporting period regarding the organization’s 22-23 size, structure, ownership, or its supply chain 102-11 Explanation of how the precautionary approach or principle is addressed The Company 120 | Appendix GRI content index by the organization adopts a prudential approach in managing environmental, social and governance risks as illustrated on page 42-43 102-12 External initiatives 32-33; 38-39; 85-91; 99-101; 105 102-13 Memberships of national and/or international advocacy organizations 84 Strategy 102-14 Statement from the most senior decision-maker of the organization about 7 the relevance of sustainability to the organization and the organization’s strategy for addressing sustainability Ethics and integrity 102-16 Mission, values, codes of conduct, principles relevant to economic, 20-21; 30-31; 38-41; environmental and social performance, developed internally and state 85-88; 99 of progress in their implementation Governance 102-18 Governance structure of the organization, including committees of the 24-27 highest governance body. Committees responsible for decision-making on economic, environmental and social impactsi Stakeholder engagement 102-40 List of stakeholder groups with which the organization engages 37 102-41 Percentage of total employees covered by collective bargaining agreements 84 102-42 Basis for identification and selection of primary stakeholders 34-37 with whom to engage 102-43 Approach to stakeholder engagement 34-37 102-44 Key topics and concerns that have been raised through stakeholder 34-37 engagement, and how the organization has responded to those key topics and concerns, including through its reporting Reporting practice 102-45 Entities included in the consolidated financial statements 118 102-46 Defining Report content and topic boundaries 34-36; 118-119 102-47 List of material topics 34-36; 118-119 GRI Disclosure Page number Omission Standard 102-48 Restatement of information 118-119 102-49 Changes in reporting 36; 118-119 102-50 Reporting period to which the social responsibility report refers 118-119 102-51 Date of most recent previous social responsibility report 118 102-52 Reporting cycle 118 102-53 Contact point for questions regarding the social responsibility 132 report and its contents 102-54 Claims of reporting in accordance with the GRI Standards 118 102-55 GRI content index 120-127 102-56 Policy and current practice with regard to seeking external assurance 129-131 for the social responsibility report 121 | Appendix GRI content index GRI Disclosure Page number Omission Standard MATERIAL TOPICS ECONOMIC PERFORMANCE INDICATORS Economic Performance GRI 103: Management Approach 2016 103-1 Explanation of the material topic and its boundary 34-36 103-2 The management approach and its components 30-31; 42-43 103-3 Evaluation of the management approach 30-31 GRI 201: Economic Performance 2016 201-1 Direct economic value generated and distributed 112-113 Procurement Practices GRI 103: Management Approach 2016 103-1 Explanation of the material topic and its boundary 34-36 103-2 The management approach and its components 42-43; 85; 114 103-3 Evaluation of the management approach 85; 114 122 | Appendix GRI content index GRI 204: Procurement Practices 2016 204-1 Proportion of spending on local suppliers at significant locations 114 of operation ENVIRONMENTAL PERFORMANCE INDICATORS Raw Materials GRI 103: Management Approach 2016 103-1 Explanation of the material topic and its boundary 34-36 103-2 The management approach and its components 42-43; 96-98; 101-102 103-3 Evaluation of the management approach 96-98; 101-102 GRI 301: Raw Materials 2016 301-1 Materials used by weight or volume 96-98; 101 Energy consumption by the organisation GRI 103: Management Approach 2016 103-1 Explanation of the material topic and its boundary 34-36 103-2 The management approach and its components 42-43; 100-104 103-3 Evaluation of the management approach 100-104 GRI 302: Energy consumption by the organisation 2016 302-1 Energy consumption by the organisation 102 Emissions GRI 103: Management Approach 2016 103-1 Explanation of the material topic and its boundary 34-36 103-2 The management approach and its components 42-43; 100-104 103-3 Evaluation of the management approach 100-104 GRI Disclosure Page number Omission Standard GRI 305: Emissions 2016 305-1 Direct greenhouse gas emissions (Scope 1) 103 305-2 Energy indirect greenhouse gas emissions (Scope 2) 103 305-3 Other indirect greenhouse gas emissions (Scope 3) 101 305-4 GHG emissions intensity 101 Effluents and Waste GRI 103: Management Approach 2016 103-1 Explanation of the material topic and its boundary 34-36 103-2 The management approach and its components 42-43; 99-104 103-3 Evaluation of the management approach 99-104 GRI 306 Effluents and Waste 2016 306-1 Quantity of water discharged by volume and quality 99; 105 Environmental Compliance GRI 103: Management Approach 2016 103-1 Explanation of the material topic and its boundary 34-36 103-2 The management approach and its components 42-43; 99-104 123 | Appendix GRI content index 103-3 Evaluation of the management approacht 99-104 GRI 307: Environmental Compliance 2016 307-1 Non-compliance with laws and regulations in the environmental area In 2019 the Group has not received significant fees for non-compliance with laws and regulations concerning the environmental issue Supplier Environmental Assessment GRI 103: Management Approach 2016 103-1 Explanation of the material topic and its boundary 34-36 103-2 The management approach and its components 42-43; 99;105 103-3 Evaluation of the management approach 99; 105 GRI 308: Supplier Environmental Assessment 2016 308-2 Negative environmental impacts in the supply chain and actions taken 99; 105 Some information regarding this indicator is not currently available. Benetton undertakes, in the coming years, to gather the data needed to disclose this indicator GRI Disclosure Page number Omission Standard SOCIAL PERFORMANCE INDICATORS Employment GRI 103: Management Approach 2016 103-1 Explanation of the material topic and its boundary 34-36 103-2 The management approach and its components 42-43; 73-84 103-3 Evaluation of the management approach 73-84 GRI 401: Employment 2016 401-1 New hirings and turnover 73 401-2 Benefits provided to full-time employees that are not provided 73-84 to temporary or part-time employees, by significant locations of operation 401-3 Return to work and retention rates after parental leave (by gender) 77 Labor/Management relations GRI 103: Management Approach 2016 103-1 Explanation of the material topic and its boundary 34-36 124 | Appendix GRI content index 103-2 The management approach and its components 42-43; 84 103-3 Evaluation of the management approach 84 GRI 402: Labor/Management Relations 2016 402-1 Minimum notice periods regarding organizational changes 84 Occupational Health and Safety GRI 103: Management Approach 2016 103-1 Explanation of the material topic and its boundary 34-36 103-2 The management approach and its components 42-43; 77-78 103-3 Evaluation of the management approach 77-78 GRI 403: Occupational Health and Safety 2016 GRI 403-2 Rates of injury, occupational diseases, lost days, absenteeism 78 Some information and total number of work-related fatalities, by region and by gender regarding this indicator is not currently available. Benetton undertakes, in the coming years, to gather the data needed to disclose this indicator Training and education GRI 103: Management Approach 2016 103-1 Explanation of the material topic and its boundary 34-36 103-2 The management approach and its components 42-43; 78-81 103-3 Evaluation of the management approach 78-81 GRI 404: Training and Education 2016 404-1 Average hours of training per year per employee, by gender 80 and by employee category 404-2 Programs for upgrading employee skills and transition assistance 78-81 programs Diversity and Equal opportunity GRI 103: Management Approach 2016 103-1 Explanation of the material topic and its boundary 34-36 103-2 The management approach and its components 24-27; 42-43; 73-75; 90-91 103-3 Evaluation of the management approach 24-27; 73-75; 90-91 GRI Disclosure Page number Omission Standard GRI 405: Diversity and Equal Opportunity 2016 405-1 Composition of governance bodies and breakdown of employees 24-27; 73 according to gender, age group, minority group membership, and other indicators of diversity 405-2 Ratio of basic salary and remuneration of women to men 84 Non-discrimination GRI 103: Management Approach 2016 103-1 Explanation of the material topic and its boundary 34-36 103-2 The management approach and its components 42-43; 73-75; 87; 91 103-3 Evaluation of the management approach 73-75; 87; 91 GRI 406: Non-discrimination 2016 406-1 Number of incidents of discrimination and corrective actions taken 87 Freedom of Association GRI 103: Management Approach 2016 103-1 Explanation of the material topic and its boundary 34-36 125 | Appendix GRI content index 103-2 The management approach and its components 85-88 103-3 Evaluation of the management approach 85-88 GRI 407: Freedom of Association 2016 407-1 Identification of operations and main suppliers in which the right 87-88 to exercise freedom of association and collective bargaining may be at significant risk and measures taken to support these rights Child Labor GRI 103: Management Approach 2016 103-1 Explanation of the material topic and its boundary 34-36 103-2 The management approach and its components 42-43; 85-88 103-3 Evaluation of the management approach 85-88 GRI 408: Child Labor 2016 408-1 Identification of operations and main suppliers having significant risk 85-87 for incidents of child labor, and measures taken to contribute to its elimination Forced or Compulsory Labor GRI 103: Management Approach 2016 103-1 Explanation of the material topic and its boundary 34-36 103-2 The management approach and its components 42-43; 85-88 103-3 Evaluation of the management approach 85-88 GRI 409: Forced or Compulsory Labor 2016 409-1 Operations having significant risk for incidents of forced or compulsory 85-87 labor, and measures taken to contribute to its elimination Human Rights Assessment GRI 103: Management Approach 2016 103-1 Explanation of the material topic and its boundary 34-36 103-2 The management approach and its components 42-43; 85-88 103-3 Evaluation of the management approach 85-88 GRI 412: Human Rights Assessment 2016 412-1 Total number and percentage of suppliers subject to human rights 86-87 reviews or impact assessment GRI Disclosure Page number Omission Standard Local Communities GRI 103: Management Approach 2016 103-1 Explanation of the material topic and its boundary 34-36 103-2 The management approach and its components 42-43; 85-88; 91 103-3 Evaluation of the management approach 85-88; 91 GRI 413: Local Communities 2016 413-1 Percentage of sites of operations in which local community 86-87; 91 engagement, impact assessments, and development programs have been implemented Supplier Social Assessment GRI 103: Management Approach 2016 103-1 Explanation of the material topic and its boundary 34-36 103-2 The management approach and its components 42-43; 85-88 103-3 Evaluation of the management approach 85-88 GRI 414: Supplier assessment for impacts on society 2016 414-1 New suppliers that were screened using social criteria 88 126 | Appendix GRI content index 414-2 Significant actual and potential negative impacts on society 85-88 and actions taken Customer Health and Safety GRI 103: Management Approach 2016 103-1 Explanation of the material topic and its boundary 34-36 103-2 The management approach and its components 42-43; 58-59 103-3 Evaluation of the management approach 58-59 GRI 416: Customer Health and Safety 2016 416-1 Assessment of the health and safety impacts of product 58-59 and service categories 416-2 Incidents of non-compliance with regulations and voluntary codes There have been no concerning the health and safety impacts of products and services significant incidents of nonduring their life cycle, by type of outcomes compliance with regulations and voluntary codes concerning the health and safety impacts of products in the three-year period 2017-2019 Marketing and Labelling GRI 103: Management Approach 2016 103-1 Explanation of the material topic and its boundary 34-36 103-2 The management approach and its components 42-43; 66-67 103-3 Evaluation of the management approach 66-67 GRI Disclosure Page number Omission Standard GRI 417: Marketing and Labelling 2016 417-1 Requirements for product and service information and labeling All products marketed by the Group, regardless of product sector, report the information required by law in the country in which they are marketed on their labels. More specifically, information is provided on: country of origin, presence of toxic substances, methods of disposal 417-2 Total number of incidents of non-compliance with regulations There have been no and voluntary codes concerning product and service information significant incidents of nonand labeling, by type of outcomes compliance with regulations and voluntary codes concerning the labelling 127 | Appendix GRI content index of products during their life cycle in the three-year period 2017-2019 417-3 Total number of incidents of non-compliance with regulations There have been no and voluntary codes concerning marketing communications, including significant incidents of advertising, promotion, and sponsorship, by type of outcomes non-compliance regarding consumer protection that determined the payment of monetary fines by the Group in the three-year period 2017-2019 Socio-economic Compliance GRI 103: Management Approach 2016 103-1 Explanation of the material topic and its boundary 34-36 103-2 The management approach and its components 42-43; 58-59; 66-67 103-3 Evaluation of the management approach 42-43; 58-59; 66-67 GRI 419: Socio-economic Compliance 2016 419-1 Non-compliance with laws and regulations in the social In 2019 the Group has not and economic area received significant fees or for non-compliance with laws and regulations concerning the provision and use of products and services 128 | Chi siamo EY S.p.A. Tel: +39 0422 358811 Viale Appiani, 20/b Fax: +39 0422 433026 31100 Treviso ey.com Independent auditors’ repor t on dat a and informat ion included in t he “ Integrat ed Repor t 2019” and referenced in t he “ GRI Content Index” (Translat ion from t he original It alian t ext ) To the board of Directors of Benetton Group S.r.l. We have been appointed to perform a limited assurance engagement on the data and information included in the Integrated Report 2019 of Benetton Group S.r.l. (hereinafter “ the Company” ) and its subsidiaries (hereinafter also “ Benetton Group” or “ the Group” ) for the year ended on December 31, 2019 (hereinafter also “ GRI Disclosure of the Integrated 129 | Appendix Independent Auditors’ report Report” ). Direct ors’ responsibilit y on t he GRI Disclosure of t he Int egrat ed Report The Directors of Benetton Group S.r.l. are responsible for the preparation of the GRI Disclosure of the Integrated Report in accordance with the “ Global Reporting Initiative Sustainability Reporting Standards” issued by GRI Global Reporting Initiative (“ GRI Standards” ), as described in the paragraph “ Methodological notes” of the Integrated Report 2019. The Directors are also responsible for that part of internal control that they consider necessary in order to allow the preparation of a GRI Disclosure of the Integrated Report that is free from material misstatements caused by fraud or not intentional behaviors or events. The Directors are also responsible for defining the commitments of Benetton Group S.r.l. regarding the sustainability performance, as well as for the identification of the stakeholders and of the significant matters to report. Audit ors’ independence and qualit y cont rol We are independent in accordance with the ethics and independence principles of the Code of Ethics for Professional Accountants issued by the International Ethics Standards Board for Accountants, based on fundamental principles of integrity, objectivity, professional competence and diligence, confidentiality and professional behavior. Our audit firm applies the International Standard on Quality Control 1 (ISQC Italia 1) and, as a result, maintains a quality control system that includes documented policies and procedures regarding compliance with ethical requirements, professional standards and applicable laws and regulations. Audit ors’ responsibilit y It is our responsibility to express, on the basis of the procedures performed, a conclusion about the compliance of the GRI Disclosure of the Integrated Report with the requirements of EY S.p.A. Sede Legale: Via Lombardia, 31 00187 Roma Capitale Sociale Euro 2.525.000,00 i.v. Iscritta alla S.O. del Registro delle Imprese presso la C.C.I.A.A. di Roma Codice fiscale e numero di iscrizione 00434000584 numero R.E.A. 250904 P.IVA 00891231003 Iscritta al Registro Revisori Legali al n. 70945 Pubblicato sulla G.U. Suppl. 13 IV Serie Speciale del 17/2/1998 Iscritta all’Albo Speciale delle società di revisione Consob al progressivo n. 2 delibera n.10831 del 16/7/1997 A member firm of Ernst & Young Global Limited the GRI Standards. Our work has been performed in accordance with the criteria established by the principle International Standard on Assurance Engagements ISAE 3000 (Revised) Assurance Engagements Other than Audits or Reviews of Historical Financial Information (hereinafter ISAE 3000 Revised ), issued by the International Auditing and Assurance Standards Board (IAASB) for limited assurance engagements. This principle requires the planning and execution of procedures in order to obtain a limited assurance that the GRI Disclosure of the Integrated Report is free from material misstatements. Therefore, the extent of work performed in our examination was lower than that required for a full examination according to the ISAE 3000 Revised ( reasonable assurance engagement ) and, hence, it does not provide assurance that we have become aware of all significant matters and events that would be identified during a reasonable assurance engagement. The procedures performed on the GRI Disclosure of the Integrated Report were based on our professional judgment and included inquiries, primarily with Company’s personnel responsible for the preparation of the information included in the GRI Disclosure of the 130 | Appendix Independent Auditors’ report Integrated Report, documents analysis, recalculations and other procedures in order to obtain evidences considered appropriate. In particular, we have performed the following procedures: 1. analysis of the process relating to the definition of material aspects included in the GRI Disclosure of the Integrated Report, with reference to the criteria applied to identify priorities for the different stakeholders categories and to the internal validation of the process outcomes; 2. comparison of economic and financial data and information included in the GRI Disclosure of the Integrated Report with those included in the Group’s consolidated financial statement; 3. understanding of the processes that lead to the generation, detection and management of significant qualitative and quantitative information included in the GRI Disclosure of the Integrated Report. In particular, we have conducted interviews and discussions with the management of Benetton Group S.r.l. and we have performed limited documentary evidence procedures, in order to collect information about the processes and procedures that support the collection, aggregation, processing and transmission of non-financial data and information to the department responsible for the preparation of the GRI Disclosure of the Integrated Report. Furthermore, for significant information, considering the Group’s activities and characteristics: at Group level, a) with reference to the qualitative information included in the GRI Disclosure of the Integrated Report, we carried out inquiries and acquired supporting documentation to verify its consistency with the available evidence; 2 b) with reference to quantitative information, we have performed both analytical procedures and limited assurance procedures to ascertain on a sample basis the correct aggregation of data. for Benetton France Commercial S.A.S. (France) and Benetton India Pvt. Ltd. (India), that we have selected based on their activity, relevance to the consolidated performance indicators and location, we have carried out interviews during which we have had discussions with management and have obtained evidence about the appropriate application of the procedures and the calculation methods used to determine the indicators. Conclusion Based on the procedures performed, nothing has come to our attention that causes us to believe that the GRI Disclosure of the Integrated Report of Benetton Group S.r.l. for the year ended on December 31, 2019 has not been prepared, in all material aspects, in 131 | Appendix Independent Auditors’ report accordance with the requirements of the GRI Standards, as described in the paragraph “ Methodological notes” of the Integrated Report 2019. Treviso, May 25, 2020 EY S.p.A. Signed by: Maurizio Rubinato, Auditor This report has been translated into the English language solely for the convenience of international readers 3 Acknowledgements Thank you to all the colleagues who give their collaboration for the success of this project. Photo Benetton Group Oliviero Toscani Registered office Benetton Group S.r.l. Single shareholder company Villa Minelli 31050 Ponzano Veneto (Treviso) Italy Corporate information Share capital: Euro 200 000 000 fully paid-in Fiscal code/ Treviso company registrar no. 03490770264 For information Roberto Taiariol Tel. +39 0422 519270 Nicoletta Sartori Tel. +39 0422 519269 csr@benetton.it
