The cover illustration is a rendering of the Tokuyama Factory, located in the Shunan industrial complex with views of the Seto Inland Sea. The factory is rendered in gentle shapes in sharp contrast to its man-made, physical presence, and is meant to evoke Tokuyamaʼs pursuit of creating new value for the future. T O K U Y A M A CONTENTS V I S I O N About us Harnessing the Potential of Chemistry Mission About us 4 Message from the President to Shape the Next Century Centered on the field of chemistry, the Tokuyama Group will continue 6 Tokuyama’s Business and the SDGs to create value that enhances 8 The Value Creation Process at Tokuyama people’s lives Since its founding in 1918, the Tokuyama Group has overcome many obstacles on its quest to 10 H  istory of Value Creation by the Tokuyama Group deliver products and services that truly benefit people’s lives. From the production of soda ash in Aspirations 12 Tokuyama and CSR Japan to cement and diverse chemicals, Tokuyama makes the most of its technology and experience Shift from a focus on quantity to 14 Materiality Assessment to serve a wide range of sectors including electronics, ICT, healthcare, environment, and energy. Feature As it embarks on another 100 years in business, Tokuyama will keep striving to create innovative quality 〈FY2025〉 Feature products and services to deliver on its mission: “Centered on the field of chemistry, the Tokuyama Global leader in advanced materials 16 Feature 1 C  reating a Low-Carbon, Group will continue to create value that enhances people’s lives.” Leader in its traditional businesses Recycling Oriented Society in Japan 20 Feature 2 Stakeholder Dialogue Working with Communities Values for Circular and Symbiotic Socioeconomic Development Customer satisfaction is the source of profits Environment Environment A higher and broader perspective 24 Tokuyama’s Responsible Care Personnel who consistently surpass 26 Tokuyama’s Environmental Management their predecessors 28 Helping to Fight Global Warming Integrity, perseverance, and a sense 30 R  educing Substances with Environmental of fun Impact and Waste 33 Chemicals and Product Safety Society 34 A  ccident Prevention and Occupational Health and Safety 36 Communication with Stakeholders Society 38 Developing Talent and Promoting Diversity 41 Creating a Health-Conscious Workplace Governance 42 Corporate Governance 44 Risk Management and Compliance Governance 48 Business  Activities and Biodiversity/ Detailed Data 50 Site Reports 55 Company Outline 57 Third-Party Review 58 Editorial Policy Message from the President Creating Value That Benefits People’s Lives About us through Chemistry This includes building a shared recognition of the Company’s long-term priorities with the outside directors, and discussing Tokuyama’s future vision ￨ Addressing Social Issues through Our Business ￨ Changing How Employees Work, and Managing Diversity and Inclusion based on it. In the field of information and communications We expect that having more employees work from technology (ICT), we are focusing on heat dissipation home will change our organizational culture. Work￨ materials. By supplying materials that offer ening efficiently at home may enable employees to Feature hanced heat-dissipating performance, we can facilcontinue their careers when faced with life events Responsible Care itate the adoption of electric vehicles and decrease such as having a child, parenting or elderly care. heat consumption at data centers, thereby helping Working from home also increases opportunities Safety and accident prevention continues to be our to reduce CO₂ emissions. We will invest in facilities for men to take on a share of family care and highest priority in fiscal 2020. In fiscal 2019, we and human resources for technology development. household duties. This will increase the acceptance recorded one minor accident at a contractor. In adIn the healthcare field, we are developing suppleof parenting and elderly care leave. Furthermore, dition to conventional safety measures focusing on ments including bulk pharmaceuticals for generic widespread access to 5G networks in the future will worksite safety training, we are working to remove drugs in order to supply products that enhance enable people to work in more diverse ways. For all unsafe elements from the worksite that could people’s health and quality of life. Infectious disease example, there will be more types of work available lead to accidents. measures will become even more important in the to persons with disabilities. In light of these trends, In terms of the environment, we achieved a future as a consequence of climate change. We we are working hard on diversity and inclusion manEnvironment 99.8% reuse/recycling rate for waste, down by will focus on providing solutions as a chemicals agement, including promoting equal opportunities 0.1 percentage points. While this was only a small manufacturer, such as supplements that enhance for women. decline, we are reviewing our environmental training immunity and systems to facilitate rapid testing. ￨ and establishing rules to ensure that all employees ￨ receive training and education, in order to enhance Contributing to a Sustainable World our everyday efforts to achieve zero emissions. COVID-19 Response ￨ In September 2019, Tokuyama Corporation beTo secure business continuity, we are taking even came a signatory to the United Nations Global ComReducing CO₂ Emissions stronger measures to diversify our raw material pact. Since fiscal 2017, we have been implementing suppliers. We are establishing multiple supply initiatives to achieve the Sustainable Development We are making every effort possible to reduce networks for pharmaceutical bulk ingredients and Goals (SDGs) as part of our commitment to corpocarbon dioxide (CO₂) emissions. Nearly all of intermediates synthesis, and rebuilding our prorate social responsibility (CSR). In order to align our Tokuyama’s CO₂ emissions come from its private curement networks in Japan. business targets and achievement strategies with power plants. To reduce these emissions, we are In response to COVID-19, starting in March 2020 our CSR commitment and further enhance these Society Hiroshi Yokota increasing combustion efficiency and switching we changed our rules to enable more employees to CSR efforts, we are incorporating CSR into our next President from fossil fuels to biomass for power generation. work from home, prioritizing their safety. From April medium-term management plan. Moving forward, In January 2020, we launched the CO₂ Project onwards, almost nine out of ten of our employees in more emphasis will be placed on environmental is￨ Group, which is responsible for developing a Tokyo, Osaka, and other urban areas were working sues. We recognize that it will be difficult to survive Strengthening Corporate scenario and roadmap for the long-term reduction from home. We are taking this opportunity to impleunless we deliver on CSR goals and help to achieve Governance of CO₂ emissions. The elements of the roadmap ment changes that will improve productivity. the SDGs through our business activities, doing our include shifting to biomass power generation and As part of our community initiatives, in April part to build a sustainable world. In 2019, outside directors accounted for one-third renewable energy, reconfiguring manufacturing 2020 we donated sodium hypochlorite (for use as of our Board, meeting the standards under Japan’s processes to use emitted CO₂, and developing a disinfectant) to Shunan City, where our manufacCorporate Governance Code. We are drawing on technologies for putting CO₂ to use as a raw turing is based. We are also committed to doing the functional expertise of our outside directors material. We will incorporate the roadmap into our what we can as a chemicals manufacturer to help Governance to assemble our next medium-term business plan. business plans to ensure that it is executed. communities in times of need. 4 TOKUYAMA CSR REPORT 2020 TOKUYAMA CSR REPORT 2020 5 Tokuyama’s Business and the SDGs About us ▶ Semiconductor materials Polycrystalline silicon is used to make silicon wafers for semiconductors. Tokuyama holds the top market share in Japan. Tokuyama manufactures products that are useful to customers and make the world better, applying its own technology to the priority fields of environment and energy, ICT, and healthcare. In this way, Tokuyama is helping people to live with greater convenience, amenity, and security. ▶ Thermal management materials Nitride ceramic materials offer excellent heat dissipation performance to How Tokuyama’s Business Addresses enhance the performance of power Feature the SDGs control elements. ▶ High-purity chemicals for The Tokuyama Group is committed to contributing Supporting innovation the electronic industry to the achievement of the Sustainable Development High-purity chemicals including metal-cleaning solvent, photoresist develGoals (SDGs) adopted by the United Nations Generoper, and isopropyl alcohol (IPA) meet al Assembly in September 2015. The Group verifies needs in the manufacture of advanced semiconductors. that its products and business activities are in alignAdopted by the United Nations, the SDGs address issues facing all of humanity. Meeting these goals by the target year of 2030 will require ment with the SDGs in the conduct of its business. global-scale cooperation. The Group updated its SDG implementation policy IC T in December 2019. Under this policy, the Group will continue pursuing R&D targeted toward the SDGs, Environment aiming to be essential to society and remain the choice of customers. E n v i r on m e n t & E n erg re y lt hca H ea ▶ Hydrogen Hydrogen is a co-product of the manufacturing process for caustic soda, and holds ▶ Disinfectant and bleach ingredients promise as a next-generation energy source. Sodium hypochlorite is a tap water disinfectant and household bleach ingredient. Tokuyama donated sodium hypochlorite to Shunan City to support its COVID-19 response. ▶ Dental materials Society These innovative materials contribute Creating a low-carbon, Contributing to health to healthy teeth, including the world’s first smart chromatic technology that recycling oriented society and longevity ▶ Recycling of industrial waste adapts to match any tooth color from Industrial waste that would othone shade. erwise be incinerated or ends up in landfills is recycled to make cement and other materials. ▶ Bulk pharmaceutical ▶ PVC windows ingredients ▶ Medical diagnosis  PVC windows are more airtight and better systems ▶ Utilization of waste plastic Process development for active insulated than typical aluminum sash windows, ingredients in treatment drugs for Sample test automation systems for for fuel which reduces electricity consumption for diabetes, hypertension, and allerclinical testing significantly alleviate Waste plastic is collected and used in cement heating and air-conditioning, and significantly gies, and manufacturing of bulk the burden on medical practitioners factories as alternative thermal energy. reduces CO₂ emissions. ingredients and intermediates. and support medical settings. ▶ Wastewater processing ▶ Plastic lens-related materials ▶ Microporous film Governance Caustic soda is used to reduce environmental Photochromic lens maMicroporous films that repel water but impact through its use in flue gas desulfurizaterials help to protect allow air and moisture to pass through tion, wastewater neutralization treatment, etc. the eyes from UV rays. are used in back sheets for disposable diapers and feminine napkins. 6 TOKUYAMA CSR REPORT 2020 TOKUYAMA CSR REPORT 2020 7 The Value Creation Process at Tokuyama About us TOKUYAMA VISION In pursuing the Tokuyama Group’s mission of creating value that benefits people’s lives through chemistry, we practice CSR in management, based on management resources amassed over a century Creating Value That Beneﬁts in business, and conduct our business activities with consideration for environmental, social, and Peopleʼs Lives through Chemistry governance performance. You can count on the Tokuyama Group to do its part in building a sustainable world by leveraging its core technologies to supply products that help solve social issues. Social Issues Tokuyama SDG-Oriented Products (Output) Social Vision to Be Achieved (Outcomes) Feature Tokuyama s Unique Customer-oriented R&D and Specialty Chemicals Technologies business activities Creating a low-carbon, Global issues Specialty Products recycling oriented society Polycrystalline silicon, silica, High puriﬁcation and ceramic materials Environment & Energy Tokuyama helps to build a more ▶ Climate change and Powder technology sustainable society by recycling global warming mitigation ▶ Hydrogen Life & Amenity waste plastics, sludge, and other Reduction nitridization ▶ Biodiversity conservation Organic functional materials, ▶ Recycling of industrial waste refuse, and by reusing co-products pharmaceutical APIs Sintering ▶ Stable procurement of ▶ Wastewater processing generated by manufacturing processes. Environment energy, resources, Sol-gel and food supplies ▶ Utilization of waste plastic Traditional Businesses for fuel Photopolymerization ▶ PVC windows Chemicals Crystallization, deposition Electrolysis technology, Safety and security reﬁning technology Molecular design Supporting innovation Electrode and membrane Cement ▶ Natural disaster mitigation ICT Sintering technology, resource Organic synthesis and By enabling higher performance ▶ Improved labor conditions reprocessing technology direct hydration ▶ Semiconductor materials and eﬃciency in consumer electronic ▶ Thermal management materials and energy products, Tokuyama helps ▶ Cybersecurity measures to make society more convenient ▶ High-purity chemicals and prosperous. for the electronic industry ・Environmental management Society Manufacturing Capital ・Energy conservation Socially Low birth rates, Natural harbor and competitive Responsible ・CO₂ emissions aging demographics industrial complex reduction Management Healthcare Highly integrated and high・Waste management ▶ Contribute to healthy ・Management of chemical substances ▶ Bulk pharmaceutical ingredients eﬃciencyTokuyama Factory Contributing to health longevity ・Resource recycling Seventh-largest private power ▶ Disinfectant, bleach ingredients and longevity ▶ Sustainable plant capacity in Japan ・Process safety and infrastructure building ▶ Plastic lens-related materials Tokuyama provides products for ・Governance disaster prevention pleasant and healthy living. Especially ▶ Improved industrial structure ・Occupational health ▶ Microporous film competitiveness ・Compliance and safety notable are bulk pharmaceuticals for Human Capital Financial ▶ Dental materials Capital ・Risk management ・Product quality and safety generic drugs, and plastic lens ▶ Increased regional Honest and ・Diversity ▶ Medical diagnosis systems materials produced with its unique vitality Governance committed Sound ・Work-life balance human resources management organic synthesis technology. ・Respect for human rights 8 TOKUYAMA CSR REPORT 2020 TOKUYAMA CSR REPORT 2020 9 g sin History of Value Creation by the Tokuyama Group rea About us c h in it gw c y clin e e r ciety urc o 15 1976 Commenced polyoleﬁn ﬁlm business nd r eso ted s en ‒ 20 1992 Established Sun · Tox Co., Ltd. as a joint 05 s a o r i ion clingCommenced PVC window business venture of polyoleﬁn ﬁlm business em iss ecy e 20 ‒ alu r 16 o Tokuyama Corporation was founded in 1918 by Katsujiro Iwai, er ga ev dz 1995 Established Shin Dai-ichi Vinyl Corp. Pur sue r buil din a t n 20 who operated an import trading business. The company was o r io rpo ndat f nd ma co as a joint venture of PVC business de fou originally called Nihon Soda Kogyo Co., Ltd. and was based in 1964 Commenced petrochemical business tio n g inn ova ai sin w Tokuyama, Yamaguchi Prefecture, now known as Shunan City. 1966 Commenced polyvinyl chloride business oI T nr a ne dt o For more than a century, Tokuyama has answered diverse needs ibute s ed d ing ent dc o ntr cu uil pm by supplying raw materials and developing new materials and an Fo B eve lo 1978 Commenced dental materials and ials sd ter nes em a usi technologies that have been essential to industrial progress. equipment business dg a lb b g-e glo sses uttin ed of e Tokuyama is committed to fulfilling its role as a chemicals 1982 Commenced consumer products business vid e dc c tur hal l e n ges busin nta l Pro tru c on ronm e res manufacturer to be part of the solution to social issues. Feature Commenced ﬁne chemicals business ok i To env a nd d n w e se d an esp on e ne es 1967 Commenced ion exchange r t h s vat io n in r e ng ines 2005 Established Tokuyama Chemicals (Zhejiang) membrane business ser St bu 4 s con ing Co., Ltd. in China for fumed silica business Completed construction of Higashi plant ne rgy o re 200 teg rat to expand petrochemical business wid ee c 0‒ sb y i n ny9 nes 2009 Established Tokuyama Malaysia Sdn. Bhd. 1918 Established Nihon Soda Kogyo Co., Ltd. 1952 Commenced electrolytic chlor-alkali business Co m pa 19 pe t i tive for PV polycrystalline silicon business (currently Tokuyama Corp.) to produce isis 1970 Commenced production of polypropylene (PP) ted gy cr com esses mo r ed (sold oﬀ in 2017) nd soda ash in Tokuyama, Yamaguchi Pro l ene in 1960 Commenced production of precipitated silica hen ﬀ bus lob a a g t en ng o Prefecture (currently Shunan City) ty Str ial es (ceased production in 2010) tog n n i 1971 Commenced construction materials business c spi 2013 Established Yamaguchi Liquid Hydrogen Corp. pe ss and d s usine Completed construction of Nanyo cement for liquid-hydrogen business Established Tokuyama Fiberglass Corp. plant to expand cement business d e ials (currently Tokuyama Mtech Corp.) p an ing b ma ter 1996 Established Taiwan Tokuyama Corp. and ure Ex ess 9 tro n i c ras truct r o c 98 lec Tokuyama Electronic Chemicals Pte. Ltd. inf p 5‒ 1 a se in Singapore for high-purity chemicals business Environment h ve lop 7 suc hel p de 19 ed s ect ors s to ad d nes ueb usi d val l s mi cal ere emic a che ive Ent ch Established Tokuyama Nouvelle Calédonie S.A. e tro sl ﬁne in New Caledonia, for cement business 1924 First shipment of caustic soda dp leʼ ss and n che peop ine us La u e rov 1927 First shipment of soda ash imp b and i cal 1983 Commenced high-purity chemicals business em 1961 Commenced ready-mixed for electronics industry h roc 1938 Completed construction of captive central concrete busines et Commenced medical diagnosis systems business power station d dp 4 od ove peri m e 1999 Established Sun Arrow Kasei Co., Ltd. Commenced production of cement du r ing te r 7 soc iety nt En 1‒19 s for PVC compound busines me re sa ce for 6 asu 19 e 1940 Commenced production of calcium chloride a nd d al m an m de wth nt 2000 Established Yamaguchi Eco-Tech Co., Ltd. me als ed n eas micgr o v i ron llutio as a joint venture in recycling waste t in c r i c en po Established Tokuyama Chiyoda Gypsum Co., Ltd. em no n e d i n g 1984 Commenced polycrystalline silicon business incinerator ash Me g eco the sify on ch eng inten for recycling of waste gypsum boards nic str Str s Established Excel Shanon Corp. as a of s rga ty re cul dd Society oa no ses company of PVC window business diﬃ t 2014 Established TOKUYAMA & CENTRAL SODA Inc. olve d i s res de ne (currently Tokuyama Soda Trading Co., Ltd.) an busi to er ash tiliz 2001 Established Tokuyama Polypropylene Co., Ltd. sod a x p t fer 1972 Commenced production of isopropyl for soda ash and calcium chloride busines E en l 60 f a as a joint venture in polypropylene business o tur alcohol (IPA) ion m cul ce 5‒19 ct gri 2015 Established Tokuyama METEL Corp. du sa 1985 Commenced aluminum nitride business Established Tokuyama Dental Corp. for dental pro a n t i c W I 4 ori de ctio 19 s du materials and equipment business for industrial detergent business me gW h chl pro Commenced gas sensor business by means of do durin s aa m d e d s niu r foo lish port d mo a equity participation in Figaro Engineering Inc. ab Est ing im e so ce d am ostw p 2002 Established Shanghai Tokuyama Plastics Co., 2019 Finished construction of Taiwan Tokuyama tur r du ase ecu Pro incre Completed construction of Kashima Factory Ltd. in Shanghai, China for polyoleﬁn Corporation s second (Yunlin) plant for in s fa c nu p manufacturing of high-purity chemicals for hel microporous ﬁlm business m a to the electronics industry to ed 2004 Established ASTOM Corp. for ion exchange b lish 4 sh membranes and systems ta 4 aa Es ‒19 f so d 1 8 ion o 1973 Closed chlor-alkali plant using mercury 19 pro d uct cells process 1988 Established A&T Corp. and commenced medical Governance om s fr t diagnosis system and equipment business uct emen p r od r c b ys f o 1975 Commenced chlor-alkali production using ed terial 1989 Completed construction of the Tsukuba Us diaphragm cell process w ma r a Research Laboratory as Trends in annual sales 10 TOKUYAMA CSR REPORT 2020 TOKUYAMA CSR REPORT 2020 11 Tokuyama and CSR About us Tokuyama has created this symbol for CSR promotion. Depicting a sunflower, the symbol Tokuyama practices corporate social responsibility (CSR) by fulfilling its mission to use chemistry to is intended to convey the Company’s active, healthy and honest stance toward CSR. Under this create value that enhances people’s lives. By leveraging the chemical technologies it has developed and symbol, the Tokuyama Group will not only pursue compliance practicing socially responsible management, Tokuyama will continue to create and supply new value that and efficiency in its business operations, but will also work to Signatory to United Nations brings contentment to people and contributes to social progress. develop into a vibrant, sound corporate entity that is socially and Global Compact environmentally beneficial and is trusted by all stakeholders. In September 2019, Tokuyama Corporation became a signatory to the United Nations (UN) Global Compact. Under this commitment, Feature Tokuyama is creating products that help to address Tokuyama complies with the Ten Principles of Tokuyama Vision and CSR CSR Framework social issues through its businesses and R&D. the UN Global Compact, which are organized In May 2016, Tokuyama adopted a corporate vision Secondly, Tokuyama is meeting its social responsiTokuyama operates a CSR Promotion Council under the four headings of human rights, that includes the mission of creating value that enbilities in business processes by ensuring internal chaired by the President and Executive Officer labor, environment, and anti-corruption. hances people’s lives through chemistry. This guides controls and practicing risk management and (hereafter, “President”) and comprises all executive In addition, the entire Tokuyama Group is Tokuyama’s efforts to fulfill its social responsibilities. compliance. As a chemical manufacturer, Tokuyama officers in Japan. The council decides on CSR poliendeavoring to further enhance its socially In the vision, Tokuyama articulates an aspiration also recognizes that practicing Responsible Care cies and goals, and facilitates their implementation. responsible management. to “Shift from a focus on quantity to quality.” The represents a major social responsibility, and it has CSR is built upon a platform of appropriate corpoTokuyama Group recognizes that it must practice a corporate framework in place for Responsible rate governance and internal controls. Accordingly, CSR-oriented management if it is to shift to qualiCare. This framework ensures the operation and the council discusses important matters related to tative growth in addition to quantitative growth. In continuous improvement of management systems internal controls. Environment March 2018, Tokuyama revised its basic philosophy for safety, the environment, and quality. The Risk Management and Compliance Commitfor CSR-oriented management to state that the Tokuyama’s commitment to respect human tee operates under the CSR Promotion Council and Group will “continuously work with society to build a rights and prohibit discrimination is outlined in is chaired by the director responsible for CSR. The sustainable future by contributing to the resolution its Code of Conduct and Guidelines for Business committee has a central role in implementing risk of social issues.” Activities. Tokuyama also prohibits child labor and management and compliance, which are the two Tokuyama’s mission of creating value that forced labor, and asks suppliers to comply with pillars at the core of internal controls (see page 44). enhances people’s lives has two drivers. Firstly, these principles. Strengthening Our Efforts to Hideo Sugimura Tokuyama Group’s CSR Basic Philosophy of Tokuyama’s Framework CSR-Oriented Management Address Material Issues, Director, Managing Executive Officer in charge of Corporate Social Responsibility to Build a Sustainable Future CSR Society Resolving Social Issues Internal Control Tokuyama approaches its CSR Creating value that enhances people’s lives through chemistry Group’s CSR issues both from activities in accordance with a is the keystone to Tokuyama’s existence and has been its core an inside-out (internal) and outRisk Management basic philosophy of continuously heritage for a century in business. Our approach of resolving side-in (external) perspective. Compliance working with society to build a social issues through corporate activities is precisely how we As a result, we identified nine CSR issues that are of materisustainable future by contributing practice corporate social responsibility in management. al importance to the Group and made it a priority to achieve Fair Trade / Responsible Care to the resolution of social issues In order to remain worthy of the public’s trust, Tokuyama our fiscal 2020 targets based on key performance indicaSecurity Trade and earning greater trust from gives utmost priority to disaster prevention and safety, while tors (KPIs). The Group’s achievement level for fiscal 2019 is various stakeholders with the aim strengthening internal controls to enhance stakeholder consummarized on page 15 of this report. of improving corporate value. fidence. We also have a duty as a chemicals manufacturer In fiscal 2020, we will strengthen our pursuit of material to ensure the safety and quality of our products and reduce issues that have yet to be fully addressed. We will also make Governance environmental impact, and we do this by practicing Respona strong effort to develop products and technologies that sible Care. reduce CO₂ emissions or contribute to the achievement of In fiscal 2019, during the process of incorporating the SDG targets. SDGs into our management priorities, we reviewed the 12 TOKUYAMA CSR REPORT 2020 TOKUYAMA CSR REPORT 2020 13 Materiality Assessment Degree of target achievement: Achieved (A) Not achieved (B) About us Degree Materiality FY2020 Targets / Key Performance Indicators (KPIs) of target Aspirations (FY2025) achievement Manage energy conservation and per-unit 3% reduction (compared with A Reduce CO₂ emissions from energy Helping to fight global energy consumption FY2005 levels) consumption warming 15% reduction in BAU CO₂ emissions by FY2030, compared with FY2013 levels Tokuyama has been pursuing a variety of initiatives in an effort to create value that enhances people’s Disclose non-consolidated Scope 3 emissions Expand Scope 3 emissions and c-LCA and c-LCA* qualitative assessments disclosure data lives. In order to pursue its CSR initiatives, Tokuyama conducted a materiality assessment to identify Disclose GHG emissions including for Group its priority issues encompassing the perspective of environmental, social, and governance (ESG) issues. Environment ▶ p.16, 28 manufacturing subsidiaries outside Japan Tokuyama has made it a management priority to strategically tackle these material issues, and will Conserving the Waste effective utilization rate Maintain at 92% A Promote recycling and maintain zero landfill waste disclose the details of its initiatives and the outcomes so that they can be readily understood. environment Zero emissions to landfills Maintain 99.9% reuse/ B recycling rate Maintain low emissions of environmental A Maintain low emissions of substances with impact substances environmental impact Comply with legal requirements and other Zero accidents B Comply with legal requirements and other regulations, achieve zero environmental regulations, achieve zero environmental Feature ▶ p.26, 30 accidents accidents importance were selected. Key performance Identifying Materiality Accidents and disasters (requiring work Zero accidents and disasters B Maintain zero accidents and disasters indicators (KPIs) were designated for each issue, Preventing accidents Safety and Accident Prevention absence/no absence) and preparing for In March 2019, Tokuyama conducted a materiality and the issues were ranked in terms of importance. disasters Expand process safety training and drills A Improve process safety management level assessment to align its CSR initiatives and manAfter the priority and quantification of the material agement priorities. This assessment extracted and issues was reviewed based on third-party feedback, Expand risk assessments, change A Foster and improve the safety culture Occupational Health and Safety management, and hazard prediction identified issues that are of particular material imthe CSR Promotion Council made the decision to (kiken yochi ) activities portance to Tokuyama, so that it can concentrate its designate nine material issues and four CSR issues. Utilize IoT and transfer skills A management resources on resolving these issues. In fiscal 2019, Tokuyama implemented PDCA The assessment used the important social management by verifying the action taken on ▶ p.34, 41 Provide amenable working conditions A Provide amenable working conditions issues outlined in the ISO 26000 standards and material issues and achievement of KPIs, as well Develop products and technologies that help Expand product lines relating A  xpand the development of products and E Developing products to resolve social issues, focusing on the SDGs to IoT and heat dissipation, technologies that help to resolve social Global Reporting Initiative (GRI) guidelines as a as making necessary improvements. The material and technologies that and create new businesses for issues, focusing on the SDGs address social issues Environment starting point. The stakeholder issues, issues from issues were reviewed by assessing the progress of related materials Technical Quality Expand and globalize product A the medium-term management plan, and CSR goals the initiatives at the start of fiscal 2020, and the lines related to healthcare, and ▶ p.18 were then reviewed to extract the CSR issues. order of priority and scope of impact (boundaries) create new materials Assess safety through product assessments Zero infractions of A Continue to strengthen chemicals The importance of the issues was rated from were reviewed. Additionally, Tokuyama is engaging Managing chemical chemical-related regulations management substances Follow regulatory trends in and outside of both a stakeholder and corporate perspective, stakeholders and external authorities in dialogue to Japan and practice compliance A and assessed for materiality as per the GRI Stanverify the suitability of the material issues. Continue to manage risk using Group-wide A ▶ p.33 export control system dard. Through this process, 13 issues of material Harmoniously co-exist and cooperate with Community dialogue A Harmoniously co-exist and cooperate with Engaging with local communities communities communities Actively engage in community A events Contribute to communities Hire in the community A Contribute to communities Social initiatives A Contribute to communities A ▶ p.20, 36 through business Very Important Develop CSR procurement guidelines Adopt CSR procurement A Survey and manage supply chains based on Promoting CSR Process for Identifying Material Issues procurement guidelines that take into account CSR procurement guidelines Society Helping to fight global not only the environment but Conserving the environment warming also human rights, compliance, Society Extract and organize the issues Preventing accidents and and other key issues Developing products and STEP preparing for disasters technologies that address Extract the social issues from the social Develop the next generation of managers A Develop the next generation of managers Developing human Importance to Society and Stakeholders 1 requirements and Tokuyama s business Engaging with local social issues activities communities resources Put the right people in the right positions according to their career plan and job A Put the right people in the right positions skills, and increase the job rotations according to their career plan and job skills, Promoting CSR procurement and increase the job rotations Order of priority ▶ p.38 STEP Establish human resources development practice that links goals and feedback A Develop global human resources Decide the order of priority based on the Increasing customer 2 importance to stakeholders and Tokuyama satisfaction Emphasizing diversity Developing human resources Emphasizing diversity Promote diversity and inclusion KPIs for women in the workplace B Promote diversity and inclusion Promoting mental and Managing chemical physical health Employ persons with disabilities Employment rate: 2.2% B Employ persons with disabilities substances Review by experts Strengthening corporate Promote work-life balance Gender equality A Promote work-life balance governance Parenting/nursing care leaves STEP A Review the order of priority and quantiﬁcation 3 based on feedback from outside experts Implementing risk management and practicing ▶ p.38 Respect for human rights A Respect for human rights compliance CSR issues Governance Commitment from management STEP CSR Promotion Council discusses the Increasing customer Promoting mental and Strengthening corporate Implementing risk management 4 suitability of the material issues and approves satisfaction physical health governance and practicing compliance them Very Important Important Importance to Tokuyama *C  onsequential life-cycle assessment (c-LCA) is a method for assessing emissions throughout the life cycle, by adding up CO₂ emissions at each stage, from resource extraction, manufacturing, distribution, and use, to disposal. 14 TOKUYAMA CSR REPORT 2020 TOKUYAMA CSR REPORT 2020 15 Feature 1 Creating a Low-Carbon, Recycling Oriented Society About us Optimizing energy efficiency at the Developing new technologies Tokuyama Factory In addition to implementing energy conservation measures CO₂ recovery and reuse at each plant within the Tokuyama Factory, the overall enCollaborating with universities and other external research ergy efficiency of the Tokuyama Factory is being improved institutions to develop technology to recover and utilize Material issue: Helping to fight global warming; conserving the environment through energy interchange between plants and by supplyCO₂ generated by the Tokuyama Factory. ing thermal heat and energy to external users. Initiatives to The Tokuyama Group treats CO₂ emissions as a management risk. Pursuing a low-carbon business Reduce CO₂ model, the Group has now set CO₂ emissions reduction targets to achieve by fiscal 2030 and is working Emissions Adopting renewable energy Manufacturing hydrogen using hard to achieve them. Biomass co-firing renewable power Feature Increasing biomass use at Tokuyama’s private power plants, Developing hydrogen manufacturing facilities that use the to reduce fossil fuel consumption. variable supply of electricity from large-scale renewable Energy mix energy projects through the development and demonstraToward a 15% Reduction of CO₂ Establishing scenarios for future environmental administration of commercial-scale electrolyzers and electrolyzing tion and energy situations, and studying the energy mix for processes. Emissions from BAU Level manufacturing plants in fiscal 2030. Most of the electricity consumed by the Tokuyama Factory is generated from private coal-fired power plants, making it a pressing issue for Tokuyama to innovative technologies and business creation for ■ Launch of CO₂ Project Group Vision for 2050 reduce CO₂ emissions. Accordingly, the Company environmental and energy applications, and develhas designated that its most important material oping environmentally friendly products. Business Tokuyama launched the CO₂ Project Group in Pursuing a low-carbon business model issue is to address global warming. In addition to imdepartments are shifting the composition of their January 2020 to implement the above measures to Environment plementing energy conservation initiatives based on businesses away from dependency on low-cost achieve CO₂ emissions reduction targets. per-unit energy consumption, Tokuyama is focusing electricity to minimize CO₂ emissions risk. Realigning the business portfolio on reducing CO₂ emissions from energy consumption. The Company is accelerating its initiatives to address global warming, with a target of achieving a 15% reduction of emissions from BAU level by fiscal Improving efficiency at 2030, compared with fiscal 2013 levels. initiated development and demonstration of hydrogen the Tokuyama Factory Demonstrating Large-Scale Hydrogen The entire Tokuyama Group is striving to achieve manufacturing facilities using the variable electricity supply Switching to low-carbon Raising the added the fiscal 2030 emissions reduction target. The Manufacturing Using Renewable Power from large-scale renewable energy projects. This enables power sources value of products Tokuyama Factory comprehensively implements large-scale manufacturing of carbon-free hydrogen at a low Expanding the portfolio of energy conservation initiatives to eliminate loss of cost, while significantly reducing CO₂ emissions. Throughenvironmental products The major challenges when it comes to stable, large-scale available energy, and is also looking at heat recovout, Tokuyama is developing large-scale water electrolysis ery and utilization. In addition, Tokuyama conducts use of renewable energy are variable electricity generation equipment that buffers the variable electricity supply from Toward 2030 carbon recycling initiatives such as recovering due to weather conditions and other factors, and energy renewable power, as well as gas purification facilities for Society and collecting and re-utilizing emitted CO₂. R&D storage. Tokuyama has been doing research on the storage hydrogen and oxygen utilization. Tokuyama is also building Target Reduce BAU CO₂ emissions from energy departments are studying the development of and utilization of hydrogen manufactured from renewable systems for waste energy interchange among plants to reconsumption by 15% by fiscal 2030, from fiscal 2013 levels power through water electrolysis. In June 2019, Tokuyama alize cost reductions. Action Strategy Reduction of BAU CO₂ Emissions Conduct multi-vector Group-wide initiatives to reduce Renewable power Large-scale hydrogen TOKUYAMA (1,000 metric tons) CO₂ emissions 10.3% 9.8% manufacturing facilities Carbon-free oxygen 5,000 10.1% Electricity buﬀering While maintaining business composition, eliminate loss Oxygen 7.0% of available energy Puriﬁcation Storage CO emissions 4,500 Utilization 5.8% Actively study new technologies and business Carbon-free hydrogen 2.0% Hydrogen opportunities that arise in CO₂ emissions reduction initiatives 4,000 Procurement Governance Puriﬁcation Storage Utilization Identify the strengths of the Tokuyama Group’s Mutual interchange of products relative to rising energy costs, and increase waste energy, etc. 0 Other plant facilities Carbon-free products the added value of products 13 14 15 16 17 18 19（FY） CO₂ emissions BAU emissions Reduced emissions from BAU level (ﬁgures represent percentage reduced) 16 TOKUYAMA CSR REPORT 2020 TOKUYAMA CSR REPORT 2020 17 Feature 1： Creating a Low-Carbon, Recycling Oriented Society About us 2 Reducing CO₂ emissions2 Reducing environment2 impact Reducing waste Tokuyama’s Environmentally Friendly upon incineration of the high-performance vinyl windows that are more installation services for 1 Day Pave in seeking to material. Group comthermally efficient than normal aluminum windows. increase adoption. Products pany SunTox Co., Ltd. The use of vinyl windows helps to reduce electricity In addition to taking steps to conserve energy and has rapidly moved to COfrom consumption 2 cooling and heating, which *Source: Japan Cement Association research reduce CO₂ emissions in its business activities, supply polyolefin films significantly reduces CO₂ emissions. CO2 CO2 Tokuyama develops and manufactures products that are partially forthat help to reduce use of environmentally harmful mulated with biomass * When comparing an Excel Shanon high-performance Triple Shanon IIx triple-paned vinyl window (thermal transmittance of 0.94 W/(m2・ Modal Shift to Reduce CO₂ Emissions substances and generation of waste, utilizing life plastics, helping with K)) to a typical single-paned aluminum window (thermal transmittance Feature o f 6 . 5 1 W / ( m 2・K ) , t h e v i n y l w i n d o w l e t s 8 5 % l e s s h e a t e s c a p e . cycle assessments (LCAs).* the SDGs and meeting The thermal transmittance of an aluminum window is taken from the published 22 value for the thermal conductance of an opening, for use in calculating * Life cycle assessments (LCAs) are a method for quantifying environmental customer needs. the thermal loss coefficient for residential energy conservation standards. The thermal transmittance of a Triple Shanon IIx window is calculated in impacts throughout the life cycle of products and services (from resource accordance with JIS A2102-1 and A2102-2. Tokuyama is building logistics systems that are extraction through raw materials production, product manufacturing, distribution/ consumption, and disposal/recycling) or at specific stages of the life cycle. better for the environment and people by implePolyvinyl Chloride: An Environmentally menting a modal shift to marine or rail transport, Friendly Material away from the trucking of freight. In December 22 Recycling Incineration Ash, Soil, and Sludge 2019, Tokuyama pledged its support for the White Nitride Ceramics: Better Thermal Management at a Cement Factory CO2 Logistics Movement sponsored by three Japanese for Advanced Semiconductors About 60% of the material used to make polyvinyl 222 CO2 ministries.* Under the initiative, Tokuyama has chloride (PVC) is derived from salt. PVC is known pledged to take voluntary action on 11 items. In 2 for its long life and excellent recyclability. Group Tokuyama’s Nanyo Plant annually accepts 30,000 March 2020, Tokuyama was certified by the Railway Environment Demand is growing for company Shin Dai-ichi Vinyl Corporation manufactonnes of trash incineration ash that has been Freight Association to display power semiconductors tures and markets PVC used in diverse applications processed for recycling, a volume that is equivalent the Eco Rail Mark reserved for CO2 used in control of electric such as building materials, electric wire sheaths, to 3,000 loads from a large 10-tonne dump truck. companies that implement a vehicles, factory autoCO and daily goods. 2 interior materials, medical supplies, The plant also accepts construction-generated modal shift to rail transport. CO2 mation equipment, and PVC manufacturing and processing requires little modified soil and hard-to-process sewage sludge CO2 CO Used in place of coal, for use as a biomassCO 22 * Ministry of Land, Infrastructure, Transport and IT equipment. Thermal energy consumpfuel. Tourism (MLIT), Ministry of Economy, Trade and Industry (METI), and Ministry of Agriculture, management is the key tion and emits low biomass fuel reduces CO₂ emissions and helps local Forestry and Fisheries (MAFF) Eco Rail Mark for Tokuyama Corporation as higher performance amounts of CO₂, governments deal with trash issues. power semiconductors NOx, and SOx. Comare developed. Tokuyama manufactures aluminum bined with PVC’s nitride filler for use as a thermal management mateexcellent durability, Concrete Paving: Low Cost, Long Life, rial in semiconductors. It delivers nine-times better corrosion resistance, and Improved Fuel Economy thermal conductivity than conventional materials. and recyclability, this for Large Vehicles 222 Tokuyama Wins Chairman’s Award Using aluminum nitride filler in semiconductors helps to conserve reSociety helps to reduce the power consumption of equipsources and reduce There is growing recognition of the advantages from Life Cycle Assessment Society ment that uses them. energy consumption. of using concrete as a road paving material in of Japan reducing environmental impact and streamlining maintenance management. While asphalt is used Tokuyama and Group company Tokuyama Chiyoda Polyolefin Films: Formulated with PVC Windows: Better Thermal Performance to in 90% of road paving applications, concrete has Gypsum Co., Ltd. jointly received a Chairman’s Award CO2 Plant-Based Polyethylene Lower CO₂ Emissions a long life of 50 years, which significantly reduces at the 16th Awards of the Life Cycle Assessment So2 CO2 2 CO ciety of Japan for the development of recrystallization replacement costs and environmental impact. 2 Concrete road paving also helps to improve the technology that enables 100% recycling of waste gypMost plastic films that are used for wrapping, Life-cycle carbon minus homes will require betfuel economy of large vehicles by from 0.8 to 4.8%* sum board. Gypsum board is used in the interior walls mainly in food wrapping, are made from fossil ter thermal performance and airtightness than and reduces road surface temperatures by as and ceilings of buildings, and the resulting waste is fuel. Biomass plastics made from plant-based conventional homes. Windows are less thermally much as 10℃ ,* helping to mitigate the heat island mostly destined for landfills. The development of gypfeedstocks are carbon neutral because plants efficient than walls, and the use of vinyl windows effect. Tokuyama was involved in developing 1 Day sum board recrystallization technology has achieved Governance absorb and store atmospheric carbon through light can offer improved thermal performance. Group Pave paving material that cures within 24 hours of the world’s first 100% board-to-board recycling of CO2 CO2 synthesis, which offsets the carbon that is released company Excel Shanon Corporation manufactures installation. Tokuyama Group companies provide waste gypsum board. 18 TOKUYAMA CSR REPORT 2020 TOKUYAMA CSR REPORT 2020 19 Feature 2 Stakeholder Dialogue Working with Communities for Circular and About us Hiroaki Nakamura Keiko Iida Instructor for Environmental Systems at the President of Taishokan Y.K., which operates Tokuyama Commercial and Technical High School Symbiotic Socioeconomic Development a traditional Japanese inn as well as a cafe of Yamaguchi Prefecture. Nakamura is also in Stakeholder and gallery in Shunan City. For the event, charge of the school’s baseball club, whose Iida developed desserts featuring bamboo members volunteered their time for the event. Dialogue and served as a coordinator for high school Nakamura is a member of the Yamaguchi District Participants student volunteers. Forum on Chemical Engineering. Masashi Shigenaga Kashin Sato Etsuko Tazawa First-class architect and Chair of Yamaguchi Prefecture Branch President of Ethical Bamboo K.K., representative of Shigenaga of Sogetsu Foundation and Director which develops, manufactures, and Material issue: Engaging with local communities Masashi Urban & Architecture of Hikari City Traditional Culture and sells products made from untapped Planning Office. Shigenaga Etiquette School. Sato also teaches tea bamboo resources. Tazawa was the designed the bamboo wall ceremony and flower arrangement at overall promoter for the bamboostructures for the event. elementary and senior high schools. themed event. Tokuyama actively pursues dialogue to foster communication with diverse stakeholders so that it can Feature continuously work with society to realize a sustainable future. of the Tokuyama Challenge initiative and got me volunteering, which is also good for the mental involved with Tokuyama. attitude of the players. We heard that the event In February 2020, Tokuyama held the Shin-Taketori needed a lot of bamboo, so we agreed to help by Monogatari at Tokuyama Station, an event named Sato: I got involved with the company so that cutting down bamboo. It was also good exercise for after the Japanese folktale The Tale of the Bamboo Tokuyama and the Sogetsu Foundation could our players. Cutter , in order to raise awareness of the SDGs collaborate on a project under the Virtual through bamboo. We asked several persons who Hollywood Council.* * Virtual Hollywood Council is an entity whose member corporations and were involved in the event for their opinions about organizations leverage cross-industry and individual diversity to create new value that inspires customers and society. Tokuyama’s efforts to foster the circular and symbiNakamura: My school’s baseball club is active in Environment otic use of bamboo, a practical material in daily life, in the community. Q: What is your relationship to Tokuyama, and how did you get involved in the event? Tokuyama Organizes Bamboo-Themed Event as Part of Community Cultural Nakamura: From my high school, many students Festival went on to join Tokuyama and are now working there. I teach a course on industrial chemistry, and Tokuyama organized an event called Shin-Taketori MonogaI have used the knowledge gained in visits to the tari at Tokuyama Station as part of the Shunan Kisaragi Tokuyama Factory to teach the basics of manufacCultural Festival that was held in Shunan City in February turing technologies. 2020. The event grew out of a project seeking to find ways of removing obstacles to the industrial use of bamboo reTazawa: My company offers products made from sources, by a team working under the Tokuyama Challenge untapped bamboo resources in order to help build program. With invasive bamboo causing harmful effects Society a sustainable society. Tokuyama was organizing this on the local ecosystem, the event was designed to provide event to showcase effective uses for locally grown a visual and auditory experience highlighting the diverse bamboo under its Tokuyama Challenge program ways bamboo can be used, and also to explore potential (see Spotlight). The company asked me to produce new uses. the event. Local high school students harvested some 2,000 stalks Bamboo gate made using bamboo harvested by of bamboo, which was used to build the gate and in original high school students Iida: I got involved with the event because I was artworks and flower arrangements. The program also ininterested in seeing how Tokuyama could expand cluded a bamboo-themed, hands-on chemistry lab for chilThe Tokuyama Challenge program the possibilities for using bamboo. dren. Some 66,000 people attended the six-day event. The endeavors to transform the corporate culture through projects bamboo from the event is being repurposed to conduct that cut across department lines. Shigenaga: I was previously involved in a study Governance incineration tests at Tokuyama’s private power plants in the Under the program, employees team group at the Tokuyama Chamber of Commerce to up to propose projects that enhance effort to commercialize the use of bamboo-based biomass Tokuyama’s corporate value, driven examine potential uses for local idle land. It was part fuel for electricity generation. by their own interests and ambitions. 20 TOKUYAMA CSR REPORT 2020 Tokuyama’s corporate mascot character Tanusuke TOKUYAMA CSR REPORT 2020 21 Feature 2： Stakeholder Dialogue/ Working with Communities for Circular and Symbiotic Socioeconomic Development About us bamboo installation Iida: I said that the company was not good at proTazawa: I hope Tokuyama develops and makes A More Approachable Company piece for the event, moting itself, but commercializing the bamboo bioproducts that use bamboo. It would be great if inspired by the event mass power generation could do a lot to promote Tokuyama established a demonstration forest in Q: Did your perception of Tokuyama change with theme of “Chemical the company. In addition to reducing CO₂ emissions Shunan City to show how a beautiful forest can be your involvement in this event? Reactions from by using bamboo, it would create a positive cycle maintained and regenerated by sustainable bamBamboo.” The piece for people in different situations. boo use. Nakamura: I had thought of Tokuyama as being a was displayed on the reliable but somewhat closed company. Now I see it second floor deck Q: I understand that the event was an environSato: I hope to see Tokuyama address the 4Rs (reas a company that is open to the community. of Tokuyama Station mental learning opportunity for the students of duce, reuse, recycle, repair) and pursue everything to the delight of Tokuyama Commercial and Technical High School. from development through to recycling. I hope it will Feature Kashin Sato Iida: I think of Tokuyama as a reliable and honest many local residents. become a leader for using the power of chemicals company with diligent employees, but not good at The company was Nakamura: Yes. By to conserve air, water, and soil. promoting itself. It’s unfortunate that more Shunan very helpful in proworking together and residents are not aware that Tokuyama supplies excuring the bamboo. We are happy to have helped seeing many Shunan Shigenaga: Vibrant cities have local companies cess power from its industrial complex, to partially with this event, which spotlighted the social issue of residents enjoy the with strong ties to diverse stakeholders like govpower our train stations and city hall. bamboo utilization. pieces displayed ernments and city residents. I think that Tokuyama a r o u n d To k u y a m a will raise its corporate value by engaging the whole Sato: Tokuyama seemed just like a large corporaQ: There was also a flower arrangement that was Station, the students community, to enrich the area and attract talented tion in the Shunan industrial complex, but I feel an displayed in the city library, which used Tokuyama’s gained a true sense human resources. affinity with it now. The event name was clever. NF Sheet. of the inputs, outputs, and outcomes. Iida: The COVID-19 Hiroaki Nakamura Environment Tazawa: Tokuyama Sato: I had never heard about NF Sheet before. It is pandemic has slowed strikes me as being a an innovative product that allows air and moisture Sato: I teach flower e c o n o m i c a c t i v i t y, company with great to pass through but repels water. arranging at various resulting in cleaner air possibilities for the schools. I am impressed that Tokuyama is working and water. While my future. Many of its Shigenaga: The event had an impact on the comwith local high school students. I believe harvesting company is small, I employees helped out munity, as a completely new event held in central bamboo allowed the students to learn about the will run it with an even with the event, and I Shunan City. Although it was a success, many damage caused by invasive bamboo and the envigreater emphasis was impressed by the Shunan residents merely saw it as an event about ronmental issues of bamboo, while also feeling the on the environment, company’s solidarity. bamboo. Few people got the connection between fun of working together to accomplish a task. instead of prioritizing Keiko Iida Tokuyama, bamboo, and incineration tests. immediate profits. I Etsuko Tazawa Shigenaga: I can see hope that Tokuyama the Tokuyama Factory Q: It’s hard to get that across with just one event. will display leadership from my office near Looking to Tokuyama for Leadership to ensure that the skies and ocean visible from the Tokuyama Port, and seeing it every day made me Shigenaga: When Tokuyama Factory remain clear. in Achieving a Circular and feel very close to the company. It seems to be a people later hear on the Symbiotic Community Society company that cares about the local community, news that Tokuyama Nakamura: I hope that Tokuyama will be a key redespite being a large corporation. has commercialized gional company with deep community roots, which the use of bamboo Q: Do you have any expectations for Tokuyama in contributes to the advancement of communities. I for biomass power the future? also hope it will play a central role in building inviggeneration, they will orated communities that are optimistic, enjoyable, Important to Develop Businesses realize what the event Nakamura: I hope that Tokuyama will create opporand energetic, through everyone’s efforts. was about and gain a tunities for its young employees to interact with high from Solutions renewed appreciation school students, and also open its Technical EduThank you for your valuable opinions. We will try to of it. I sincerely hope Masashi Shigenaga cation and Training Center to students. Their ideas meet your expectations as we work to build a cirQ: What is your assessment of the event? t h a t To k u y a m a c a n and perspectives can offer hints on the SDGs. I also cular and symbiotic community and help to achieve make this happen. hope that Tokuyama’s young employees will use the SDGs. Governance Sato: It is great to see the entire company united their abilities to communicate with the community. around coexisting with nature. We created a large 22 TOKUYAMA CSR REPORT 2020 TOKUYAMA CSR REPORT 2020 23 Tokuyama’s Responsible Care About us ● Basic Philosophy of Responsible Care *R e s p o n s i b l e C a r e i s a v o l u n t a r y Basic Policy management initiative undertaken by 4. P  romote resource recycling and work toward reduction and the As a member of the Japan Responsible Care Committee, Tokuyama chemical manufacturers to implement Corporation carries out Responsible Care activities that protect the proper management of waste materials measures that conserve the environment environment and preserve safety and health throughout the entire •P romote the material recycling and thermal recycling of resources and secure safety and health in all chemical substance life cycle, from development and manufacturing • Work toward achieving a paperless office Practicing Responsible Care processes from the development to distribution, use, final consumption and disposal. of chemical substances to their Our social mission is to aggressively tackle and systematical5. Promote process safety, disaster prevention and occupational manufacturing, distribution, use, final ly solve environmental issues in particular, which, in turn, will lead health and safety consumption, and disposal. Companies to sustainable corporate and social development. Based on this • Aim for zero accidents and disasters based on the principles of Tokuyama has put in place a corporate framework for promoting publish their outcomes and engage in recognition, we promote Environmental Management, a manageself-responsibility and the self-management of safety public dialogue. ment policy that emphasizes the environment, in all of our busi• Achieve a comfortable working environment and protect people’s Responsible Care,* and is incorporating this initiative in each of ness activities, including development, manufacturing and sales. safety and health its management systems as it strives to continuously improve its Action Objectives 6. Ensure strict product safety standards Feature environmental, safety, and quality systems. 1. Promote environmental protection • Offer environmentally friendly products that can be used with safety • Implement an ISO 14001-based Environmental Management • Provide proper information on how to use products and what preSystem and reduce environmental impact cautions to take Responsible Care Initiatives 2. Observe the laws and regulations 7. Deepen the relationship of trust with society • Observe international rules, domestic laws and regulations and • Publicly disclose information on the Company’s activities concerning Tokuyama actively practices Responsible Care as industrial standards environmental protection, process safety and disaster prevention, • T horoughly implement export management rules on materials occupational health and safety, and chemical product safety one of the original members of the Japan Responsiunder control • Actively engage in dialogue with the local communities ble Care Committee established in 1995 under the 3. Promote energy conservation and curb global warming Japan Chemical Industry Association (JCIA). • Achieve top-class unit energy consumption in the industry for each product Responsible Care Promotion Structure Priority Tasks and Results of Responsible Care Activities in Fiscal 2019 Degree of target achievement: Environment Achieved (A) Not achieved (B) The CSR Promotion Council is chaired by the Category Priority tasks Results Degree of target achievement President and oversees the implementation of Environmental Conservation ⃝ Comply with legal requirements and ⃝ Strictly complied with legal requirements B Responsible Care. The Council operates an Environother regulations 1 incident exceeding regulatory limits set by prefectural ordinance (see page 26) mental Committee, Safety Committee, and Product ⃝ Achievezero environmental accidents ⃝ No environmental accidents A Safety and Quality Assurance Committee, which ⃝ Achievetargets for reducing environ⃝ Reduced or maintained levels of emissions of A mental impact substances of concern discuss and make decisions in their respective ⃝ Reduced per-unit energy consumption A A P (KPI: 3% improvement compared with FY2005 levels) areas of responsibility. The Council also operates 9% improvement compared with FY2005 levels subcommittees that serve as assessment bodies. CT LAN ⃝ Zero emissions to landfills B Evaluation and improvement Fiscal year targets and plan (KPI: Maintain 99.9% reuse/recycling rate) Publication of data and results Responsible Care practices are improved by impleZero emissions of industrial waste to landfills: 99.8% Formulate fiscal year plan and Responsible Care targets for Responsible menting plan-do-check-act (PDCA) cycles* focusing reuse/recycling rate Community Dialogue Care initiatives Reflection in next fiscal Environmental on environmental conservation, process safety and Safety and Accident Prevention ⃝ Achieve zero legal violations ⃝ Achieved zero legal violations A year plan Conservation disaster prevention, occupational health and safety, Occupational Health and Safety ⃝ Ensure no accidents or ⃝ Zero accidents A disasters occur ⃝ Employees: 1 accident requiring work absence, B and chemicals and product safety. Society 2 accidents not requiring work absence Process Safety, ⃝ Contractors: 2 accidents requiring work absence B Chemicals and Disaster ⃝ Improved safety management level A Product Safety Prevention Responsible Care Promotion Structure ⃝ Identified and reduced/eliminated hazards A ⃝ Reduce rate of work absences ⃝ Promoted risk and hazard management A CSR 推進会議 CSR Promotion Council ⃝ Promoted physical and mental health A Occupational C D Health and Safety Assessment Function Decision-Making Function Chemical Product Safety ⃝ Ensure product safety ⃝ Conducted inspections of products and labeling A 審査機関 HECK 審議決定機関 O ⃝ Upgraded safety data sheet (SDS) management A Product Assessment Environmental Committee ⃝ Addressed regulations on chemicals in and outside A 製品審査部会 Assessment and audit system 環境対策委員会 Management system-based Subcommittee of Japan （表示等審査部会） External and internal audits Safety Committee Safety and environmental 保安対策委員会 activities (Labeling Assessment Subcommittee) assessments Build Relations of Trust with ⃝ Participate in community events ⃝ Participated in community volunteer activities A Safety and Environmental Product Safety and Local Communities and Society ⃝ Establish a good reputation in society ⃝ Held dialogues with the community on Responsible A 安全・環境審査部会 Product assessments 製品安全・品質委員会 Assessment Subcommittee Quality Assurance Committee Care ⃝ Held factory tours A Analytical Science Dept. Responsible Care Promote Responsible Care ⃝ E xpand the scope of Responsible ⃝ Conducted safety, environment, and quality audits A 分析・解析センター（支援機関） RC 推進グループ（事務局） (Support organization) Management Dept. (Secretariat) at Group Companies Care activities ⃝ Shared Responsible Care information via an online A Governance newsletter, etc. 環 境 測 定、作 業 環 境 測 定 法、 社内およびグループ各社に対 This laboratory carries out environmental This department promotes RC activities ⃝ Appropriately addressed regulations on chemicals in A * The plan-do-check-act (PDCA) cycle is a four-stage approach for continually measurements, working environment throughout the Group, covering the areas countries outside Japan 法規制物質や環境汚染などで improving して環境、安全、品質を含め processes, products or services, and for resolving problems. measurements and ultra-trace analysis of of the environment, safety and quality. 課題となっている化学物質の極 たレスポンシブル・ケア活動を substances under regulation and chemical pollutants. 微量分析に取り組んでいる 推進する 24 TOKUYAMA CSR REPORT 2020 TOKUYAMA CSR REPORT 2020 25 Tokuyama’s Environmental Company-Wide Environmental Management Policy About us Management Medium-Term Basic Policy Focus Items in Fiscal 2020 Tokuyama actively undertakes environmental preservation and strives ・Strictly comply with legal requirements, etc. to help build a sustainable society based on its Basic Philosophy of ・Continue zero environmental accidents Responsible Care and the following policies. ・Reduce environmental impact Maintain or reduce emission levels of environmentally • Thorough compliance with laws and regulations hazardous substances • Zero environmental accidents Promote zero waste emissions • Reduction of environmental impact ・Combat climate change • Combating climate change Promote energy-saving and conservation of electricity Material issue: Helping to fight global warming; conserving the environment • Continuous improvements to environmental management systems 2017 Take action to achieve FY2030 GHG target • Improved relationship of trust with stakeholders ・Expand communication with stakeholders and improve In December 2017, Tokuyama information disclosure For Tokuyama, the pursuit of proactive initiatives to protect the received the Development Bank of Japan (DBJ) Environmentally Rated Feature earth’s environment is an important part of its corporate social Loan, rated as having “advanced environmental initiatives.” responsibilities. Accordingly, the Company practices environmental CO₂, the upgrading of waste disposal equipment, Economic Benefits in Fiscal 2019 management that takes into account the natural environment in all and the construction of waste warehouses. The Material Benefit Economic Benefit Category business activities. breakdown of main costs was: pollution control (1,000 metric tons) (million yen) (66%), resource recycling (20%), and global enviGains on Reduction in Energy Consumption － 177 ronmental conservation (7%). Gains on Sale of Valuable Waste 85 199 Performance in Fiscal 2019 Environmental Accounting ■ Economic Benefits of Environmental Gains on Reduction in Waste Disposal Costs through Waste Recycling 221 577 Management Gains on Reduction in Raw Material and Fuel Tokuyama works to accurately determine the input Tokuyama has been carrying out environmental Costs through Waste Recycling 222 403 and output of materials in its operations and regularly accounting since fiscal 2000 in order to accurately Economic benefits account for the gains on reducTotal － 1,356 Environment sets new targets for reducing environmental impact. determine and analyze the investment amounts and tion in energy consumption, the gains on sale of In fiscal 2019, Tokuyama achieved its targets for costs associated with its environmental conservavaluable waste, and the substantial effect of gains per-unit energy consumption and effective utilization activities, thereby providing a sound basis for on reduction in disposal costs as well as raw matetion rate of waste. making environmental investments. rial and fuel costs through waste recycling. In fiscal Change in Environmental Accounting (Ratio to Sales) Regarding other performance data, Tokuyama 2019, the economic benefits remained flat year on (%) Investments Costs has set a separate numerical management target year, at approximately 1.35 billion yen. 4 ■ Environmental Costs for each department to maintain the current low-impact situation. In fiscal 2019, there was one The breakdown of main environmental investments Fiscal 2019 Environmental Conservation Costs 3 incident exceeding regulatory limits set by prefecwas: global environmental conservation (37%), poltural ordinance for atmospheric emissions. The lution control (33%), and resource recycling (29%). Category Major Activities Amount Invested Costs (million yen) cause was investigated and dealt with appropriateThe main investments in fiscal 2019 included ex(million yen) Installation of electrostatic 2 ly, including improvement of inspection methods. pansion and upgrading of equipment for reducing precipitators for reducing Pollution Control smoke and dust, upgrade of 393 4,264 related equipment, measures for Costs in Business Areas Society preventing subsidence, etc. 1 Flow of Materials in Business Activities Installation and upgrade of (Unit: 1,000 metric tons) Global Environmenequipment for reducing CO₂, 439 472 tal Conservation upgrade of freon removal equipment, etc. Waste and by-products Carbon dioxide (CO2) 0 Installation of waste storehouses, 13 14 15 16 17 18 19（FY） 1,850 Production 6,600 Resource Recycling upgrade of equipment in waste 341 1,314 disposal facilities, PCB waste disposal costs, etc. Fuel Waste (incinerated and landﬁll) Upstream and Down0 3 2,150 INPUT OUTPUT 20.4 stream Costs (49,100,000 gigajoules) Installation and upgrade of Management Activity equipment for environmental 10 258 Costs Raw materials TOKUYAMA Substances with monitoring and analysis Tokuyama endorses Nippon Keidanren’s (Japan environmental impact 6,720 11.4 Research and Development Costs 4 0 Business Federation) Declaration on Biodiversity and Greenification and beautification is a member of the Japan Business and Biodiversity Industrial water Process eﬄuent Social Activity Costs measures 0 79 Partnership. Learn about Tokuyama’s business Governance 43,500 22,200 Production of CSR report activities and their impact on biodiversity at: Coolant water and other types of eﬄuent Costs for Environmental Imposition, management of a Products Damage 0 108  https://www.tokuyama.co.jp/eng/csr/ former mining site 6,500 Note: All amounts are for Tokuyama Corp. on a non-consolidated Total 1,188 6,497 basis in ﬁsical 2019 26 TOKUYAMA CSR REPORT 2020 TOKUYAMA CSR REPORT 2020 27 Helping to Fight Global Warming About us 3％ Category 1 Category 2 Calculating and Managing Supply 29％ CO₂Emissions Category 3 Material issue: Helping to fight global warming Chain Emissions 1.79 million metric tons 42％ Category 4 Based on the Scope 3 Standard of the GHG Other Protocol,* Tokuyama accounts for supply chain 24％ Global warming is a critical issue, and Tokuyama is helping to emissions for Category 1 through 7 and Category Note: Figures do not add precisely mitigate it by conserving energy used in its business activities, 2％ to total due to rounding. 9 emissions under Scope 3. The emissions from developing and manufacturing products that help to reduce GHG these categories were calculated at 1.79 million Feature emissions and managing Scope 3 emissions. metric tons, an increase of 0.32 million metric tons Guidelines: Basic Guidelines on Accounting for Greenfrom fiscal 2018. This was due to changes in the house Gas Emissions Throughout the Supply Chain (Ver. Emissions Unit Database used in the calculation, 3.0), March 2020, Ministry of the Environment and Ministry resulting in an increase in category three emissions of Economy, Trade and Industry, Government of Japan of 0.33 million metric tons. The amount of activity CO₂ Emissions Unit Database: Emissions Unit Value Database for Calculating Greenhouse Gas Emissions, etc., In fiscal 2019, the energy consumption rate was itself was nearly the same as in fiscal 2018. (EmisPromoting Energy Conservation by Organizations Throughout the Supply Chain (Ver. 3.0), down by 9.0% compared with fiscal 2005 levels, sions = Activity Amount × Emissions Unit) March 2020; LCI Database IDEA v2.3 (for calculating supTokuyama consumes a vast amount of energy to due to energy conservation measures and utilizaply chain GHG emissions; for general use), Sustainable * The Greenhouse Gas Protocol (GHG Protocol) was jointly formulated by the manufacture core products such as caustic soda, tion of non-coal energy sources. World Resources Institute (WRI) and World Business Council for Sustainable Management Promotion Organization, December 2019 Development (WBCSD), and the Scope 3 Standard was issued in November cement, and polycrystalline silicon. The Company 2011 as a standard for calculating CO₂ emissions throughout supply chains. Note: Emissions were calculated for the top 10 raw materials by puralso emits CO₂, one of the greenhouse gases, prichase amount. Environment marily in burning of fossil fuels and decarboxylation of limestone, which is used as a raw material for Energy Consumption cement production. Supply Chain and Scope 3 Categories Tokuyama sees its efforts in the fight against Tokuyama Corporation Group companies (Thousands of gigajoules/year) global warming as critical and is therefore working 3,500 60,000 2,700 2,700 to reduce CO₂ emissions. Specifically, the Company 53,700 2,700 2,500 2,600 Upstream Company Downstream 50,000 49,600 has achieved the target of reducing its per-unit 45,300 47,300 49,100 49,200 energy consumption by 3.0% by fiscal 2020, from 40,000 Scope 3 Scope 1 Scope 3 fiscal 2005 levels. It is also preparing to reduce CO₂ 30,000 Other indirect GHG emissions 6.55 million metric tons Category 4 Upstream Transportation emissions even further with projects to improve Direct GHG emissions and Distribution 20,000 Category 1 per-unit energy consumption. Purchased Goods Category 9 10,000 and Services Downstream Transportation and Distribution 0 05 15 16 17 18 19 (FY) Category 2 Category 10 Capital Goods Society Unit Energy Consumption Index* Scope 2 Processing of Sold Products: Not calculated Category 3 CO₂ Emissions 30,000 metric tons Category 11 Per-unit energy consumption Fueland Energy-Related Energy indirect GHG emissions Products: Not calculated （％） 100 ■ Attributable to fuel ■ Attributable to raw materials Activities Not Included ■ Attributable to waste ■ Group companies in Scope 1 or Scope 2 100 (1,000 metric tons/year) Category 12 Category 4 97.0 9,000 Upstream Transportation Products: Not calculated 250 210 190 180 190 and Distribution 200 190 (Target) 250 280 250 Category 13 230 250 2,110 Category 5 95 Scope 3 Downstream Leased 93.6 6,000 1,720 1,820 1,800 1,850 Waste Generated in Assets: Not applicable 94.6 1,590 Operations Category 6 Category 14 4,820 Business Travel 91.2 91.0 4,120 4,300 4,510 4,440 4,470 Category 8 Franchises: 90.5 Upstream Leased Assets Not applicable 90 3,000 Not calculated Governance Category 7 Category 15 05 15 16 17 18 19 20（FY） (negligible amount) (FY) Employee Commuting Investments: Not applicable * The unit energy consumption index is calculated using a method recommended by the Japan Chemical Industry Association (JCIA). 0 05 15 16 17 18 19 (FY) 28 TOKUYAMA CSR REPORT 2020 TOKUYAMA CSR REPORT 2020 29 Reducing Substances with About us Environmental Impact and Waste Emissions of SOx, NOx, and Soot Discharge of Industrial Effluent (Millions of metric tons) (Metric tons) SOx emissions NOx emissions Soot emissions (Metric tons) 30 15,000 400 24.2 24.2 24.5 24.0 12,000 320 22.2 10,100 10,100 10,220 9,470 20 8,900 Material issue: Conserving the environment 9,000 240 168 138 138 Tokuyama is continually working to reduce its emissions of air and 6,000 122 127 160 10 Feature water pollutants and implementing environmental conservation initiatives such as waste recycling. 3,000 80 750 780 800 810 680 0 0 15 16 17 18 19 (FY) 0 15 16 17 18 19 (FY) Water Pollutant Emissions (Metric tons) Reducing Water and Air Pollutants ■ Amounts of Hazardous Air Pollutant Emissions of PRTR Substances FY 2015 FY 2016 FY 2017 FY 2018 FY 2019 Emissions (Metric tons) ■ Tokuyama Corporation ■ Group companies COD 126 116 121 129 103 50 Emissions ■ Amounts of Atmospheric Emissions Tokuyama generates chloroethylene and three other 40 Environment substances that are subject to voluntary controls 37 37 Nitrogen 92 145 173 159 170 34 34 34 35 In order to reduce atmospheric pollution from under Japan’s Air Pollution Control Act. The Com30 30 Phosphorus 2.2 2.1 2.1 2.3 1.5 sulfur oxides (SOx) and nitrogen oxides (NOx), pany has formulated a voluntary action plan and is 25 Tokuyama equips boilers, cement kilns, and other working to reduce emissions of these substances. 25 pollutant-generating facilities with flue gas desulfurizers, denitration equipment, low-NOx burners, ■ Amounts of Industrial Effluent and and high-performance dust collectors. In fiscal Wastewater Landfilled and Recycled Waste 2019, SOx and NOx emissions increased slightly due to an increase in the utilization rate of relevant The Tokuyama Factory follows a stringent system (Metric tons) 99.9 99.9 99.9 99.9 99.8 （％） facilities, and soot emissions increased slightly as a for monitoring industrial effluent and purifying 0 15 16 17 18 19 (FY) 50,000 82.4 100 share of this trend due to changes in their operawastewater using treatment equipment in order to 94.3 94.2 93.8 93.1 93.9 Eﬀective utilization rate / “zero emissions” rate tional management. comply with regulatory standards and limits set by 40,000 76.9 80 the local government, as well as the Company’s own Landﬁll amount ■ Emissions of Pollutant Release and standards, which are even stricter. The factory also Society 30,000 60 Transfer Register (PRTR)* Substances employs activated sludge treatment facilities for Emissions of Hazardous Air Pollutants 36,260 reducing the discharge of nitrogen and phospho(Metric tons) 20,000 40 The substances handled in fiscal 2019 included 26 rous and meeting chemical oxygen demand (COD)* 30 ■ Dichloromethane (methylene chloride) ■ Chloroform （トン） ■ 1,2-Dichloroethane ■ Chloroethylene (vinyl chloride) substances that must be registered under Japan’s regulations for overall water quality. In fiscal 2019, 250 237 ■単体 ■グループ会社 10,000 20 Pollutant Release and Transfer Register (PRTR) law. COD emissions decreased due to stable operation 22 400 380 390 400 680 Non-consolidated emissions of PRTR substances of wastewater treatment facilities, phosphorus 200 0 90 15 16 17 18 19 (FY) 0 20 19 decreased in fiscal 2019 due to stable incineration emissions remained flat year on year, while nitrogen 8 18 at relevant facilities. Emissions by Group companies emissions increased with an increase in emissions 150 15 Landﬁll amount (metric tons) Eﬀective utilization rate “Zero emissions” rate 7 were nearly flat year on year. from relevant facilities. 8 14 5 10 5 * The PRTR system collects and publishes data on the sources of designated * Chemical oxygen demand is an indicator used to measure water quality, 100 11 1 2 2 Amount of waste recycled (in-house and externally) harmful chemical substances and the amounts of these substances and refers to the amount of oxygen required to oxidize organic compounds 6 Effective utilization rate (%) = ×100 6 10 1 1 Total waste generated discharged in the environment or transported from production sites as part in water. Governance 40 41 37 40 6 30 34 of waste matter. 50 2 2 35 39 227 36 1 1 Amount of landfilled waste (onsite and offsite) “Zero emissions” rate (%) = 1×100 0 Total waste generated 0 15 98 16 17 12 13 14 18 15 19 (FY) 16 （年度） 30 TOKUYAMA CSR REPORT 2020 TOKUYAMA CSR REPORT 2020 31 Reducing Substances with Environmental Impact and Waste Yamaguchi Local governments The Nanyo Plant’s Cement Production Recycling System Chemicals and Product Safety About us Eco-Tech Incinerated ash Raw material powder silo Corp. Raw material crusher Preheater Raw material dryer Outside corporations Clinker silo Outside corporations Local governments Waste plastics Natural resources Siding Sewage sludge In-house Material issue: Managing chemical substances Limestone Waste plastics Preincineration Finishing crusher Silica stone Outside corporations Morizukuri Corp. Coal ash Outside corporations In-house Outside corporations Tokuyama practices thorough product quality control and verifies Slag Organic sludge Sludge Coal ash Waste liquid the hazard level and toxicity of chemical substances so that they Rotary kiln Cement silo Construction waste soil In-house can be used with peace of mind. It also complies with chemical Feature Organic sludge In-house Natural resources クーラー regulations in and outside of Japan. Incombustible lime Coal Sludge Outside corporations Coal crusher Outside corporations Construction waste soil Waste carbon Cement shipment Gypsum In-house Main raw materials Main energy source Gypsum Quality Management System Proper Management of Chemicals Clinker shipment Alternative raw materials Alternative energy sources Clinker: A compound mass made by firing raw materials at high temperatures. This is mixed with gypsum and crushed to make cement. As an internationally competitive company, Tokuyama implements three-year quality manage■ Product Assessments ment plans based on its Quality Policy in order to Reducing Waste and Managing Waste by re-using waste matter as raw materials and fuel provide products and services that accurately meet Tokuyama confirms product safety at each stage of for cement at the Tokuyama Factory. Through its the needs and expectations of its customers. operations, from the initial research and developRecycling Environment diligent efforts to recycle waste as raw material for ment stage through to market release. The assessThe effective utilization rate for waste and the cement, Tokuyama achieved an effective utilization Tokuyama Quality Policy ments confirm compliance with legal requirements “zero emissions” rate remained high in fiscal 2019, rate of 93.9%. Although the Company strove to and evaluate the level of various risks, including the As an internationally competitive company, Tokuyama Corporadue to efforts to reduce the volume of waste and reuse waste and reduce the amount generated, its safety of chemical substances used in the product, tion always puts its customers first and to ensure their satisfaccomprehensive recycling efforts. landfill waste “zero emissions” was 99.8%. tion, provides products and services that accurately meet their their potential impact on the environment, their po※クリンカー：原料を高温焼成して得られる化合物のかたまり。これに石膏を混ぜて粉砕するとセメントになる needs and expectations. To achieve these goals, the Company tential effect on human health, and the attribution ■ Waste Management complies with laws and regulations and continuously improves of intellectual property rights. the effectiveness of its quality management system. Tokuyama generated a total of 335,000 metric tons Shifts in Units of Waste Matter/ By-Products Used Per Metric Ton of Cement ■ Labelling Assessments of waste in fiscal 2019. It actively worked to recycle this waste both in and outside the Company, mainly (kg/ｔ-cement) ■ ISO 9001 Quality Management System Labelling assessments are conducted to eliminate 500 459 441 430 425 417 deficiencies or improper wording in instructions or 400 It has been 18 years since a quality management warnings contained in labelling and documentation 300 227 system was introduced company-wide, including in such as catalogs, instruction sheets, and safety Society 200 Flow of Industrial Waste Treatment Unit: 1,000 metric tons sales and development departments, in fiscal 2002. data sheets (SDS).* 100 The system is now well-established in all depart* A safety data sheet is a document for recording information related to the Total waste generated 0 ments and is generating continuous improvement. 91 15 16 17 18 19 （FY） risks and toxicity of chemical substances. It is prepared to facilitate the safe 335.2 handling of such substances, and includes the names of the substances, Incinerated in-house An external audit by a third party in fiscal 2019 safety measures, and procedures for responding to emergencies. 19.0 pointed out no major or minor nonconformances. Recycled in-house 288.2 Utilization of Waste Matter at Cement Plants Internal audits check the progress of action plans Landﬁlled onsite ■ Chemical Export Control 0 (Material Recycling/Thermal Recycling) and the status of the system based on the JISQ In-house (1,000 metric tons) (1,000 metric tons) 9001:2015 standard, requiring corrective actions With chemical regulations becoming increasingly 2,000 1,711 1,746 1,800 1,786 1,766 100 for any defects. In addition to compliance with the rigorous worldwide, Tokuyama operates a proper Waste disposed oﬀsite 1,550 Incinerated externally 28.0 1,500 84 82 75 requirements of the standard, audits also verify the chemical export control scheme encompassing 0.7 74 79 81 effectiveness of the quality management system Group companies, staying current on chemical regu1,000 50 and whether or not it is helping to improve customlations in each country and region, in order to avoid Governance Landﬁlled oﬀsite Recycled externally 0.7 er satisfaction. oversights and errors when exporting chemicals. 26.6 500 25 Material recycling Thermal recycling Outside the Company 4 0 0 91 15 16 17 18 19（FY） 32 TOKUYAMA CSR REPORT 2020 TOKUYAMA CSR REPORT 2020 33 Accident Prevention and About us Occupational Health and Safety Disaster Preparedness Drills Tokuyama carries out disaster drills for pipe leaks and fires caused by an earthquake to exercise and improve information communication between the headquarters and the relevant departments and emergency procedures. The Company also conducts Material issue: Preventing accidents and preparing for disasters emergency drills at individual company divisions that encompass evening and weekend response, joint drills involving affiliated companies and contractors, Recognizing that safety is the basis for its business activities, and workplace safety competitions. Tokuyama also Feature Tokuyama practices safety as the first step to maintaining good runs drills for initiating its business continuity plan relations with the communities in which it operates. Based on this (BCP) involving designating the disaster response approach, the Company carries out stringent accident prevention headquarters and the crisis response headquarters in measures and occupational health and safety initiatives in its efforts to the scenario of a major earthquake. create a positive and safe work environment that is free of accidents. Helping Contractors Promote Health and Safety General disaster preparedness drill Comprehensive Safety and AccidentBased on the safety management system of the Tokuyama and its contractors carry out the following Tokuyama Factory, the Company works to identify initiatives to promote health and safety: (1) joint Prevention Measures Expenditures for Accident Prevention and and eliminate hazards by assessing risks in work, safety meetings for safety education and informaOccupational Health and Safety Environment Tokuyama has adopted three principles for ensurfacilities and processes. Tokuyama also strives to tion sharing on situations on the production floor; (2) Note: Figures do not add precisely ing safety: fulfill the obligations of a good corporate stop unsafe behavior by conducting studies into safety patrols to ensure safe construction work and to total due to rounding. citizen, give safety priority over all business activbehavioral characteristics. As part of occupational to improve unsafe situations; (3) supervisory skills Facilities aging, other Accident prevention ities, and ensure that everyone is aware of their health and safety activities, worksites carry out training and hazard simulation training to improve 58（15％） measures responsibilities and acts accordingly. basic safety activities, including safety patrol, kiken risk handling techniques; and (4) checking and Total amount in 108（29％） yochi hazard prediction, and near-miss activities. improving operating procedure documentation. FY2019 377 (Millions of yen) Fiscal 2020 Company-Wide Safety Management Policy Occupational health and safety measures Tokuyama operates a safety management Fiscal 2020 Tokuyama Safety Management Objectives and Key Action Items 211（56％） policy and actively implements safety initiatives as a good corporate citizen. Policy Objectives ■ No compliance violations ■ No accidents or accidents requiring work absence Society 2.144 ⿠ Implement safety initiatives involving all ■ Reduce the rate of work absences Comparison of Accident Frequency Rates*¹ Comparison of Accident employees, under the leadership of upper Severity Rates*2 management. Improve process safety management 2.0 1.83 1.80 0.18 0.17 Renew high-pressure gas certifications, improve hazard awareness, expand and ⿠ Comply with laws, regulations, and internal comprehensively implement change management, expand and comprehensively 1.5 0.15 0.12 0.12 rules. 0.12 0.11 implement hazard prediction activities, utilize IoT and big data 0.10 0.94 0.09 0.09 0.09 0.09 1.0 0.90 0.09 0.10 0.10 0.07 ⿠ Foster and enhance a culture of safety, Identify sources of risks and resolve 0.85 0.09 0.06 0.06 for the safety of people, facilities, and the Conduct risk assessments for irregular operations, respond to risk assessments for 0.5 0.04 0.03 public. 0.03 0.04 0.022 0.02 chemical substances 0.015 0.28 0.000 0.000 0.006 0.001 0.000 0.0 0.00 0.004 Make progress in risk management and hazard management 11 12 13 14 15 16 17 18 19 (FY) 11 12 13 14 15 16 17 18 19 (FY) ⿠ Create comfortable workplaces to ensure the mental and physical health of the Prepare for response to a potential major earthquake All industries in Japan Chemical industry in Japan All industries in Japan Chemical industry in Japan people who work there. Tokuyama Corporation Tokuyama Corporation Promote facilities management Governance Enhance management of older facilities, expand efforts to identify facilities risks *1. As an indicator of the frequency of industrial accidents, the accident *2. As an indicator of the magnitude of industrial accidents that have occurred, Promote physical and mental health frequency rate is calculated as the number of workers forced to miss work the accident severity rate is calculated as the number of lost work days due due to an industrial accident per one million cumulative working hours. to industrial accidents per 1,000 cumulative working hours. 34 TOKUYAMA CSR REPORT 2020 TOKUYAMA CSR REPORT 2020 35 Communication with The Tokuyama Science Foundation About us Stakeholders Extending Grants for New Materials Research for Over 30 Years The Tokuyama Science Foundation was founded in 1988 22nd presentation of research results by grant awardees in November 2019 to mark Tokuyama’s 70th year in business. Its mission is to promote science and technology for the next generation, within 10 years of getting their degree. The foundation also Material issue: Engaging with local communities and it offers grants for original theoretical and applied reoffers a continuing grant of five million yen over two years, search for new materials development. for previous grant awardees to continue their research. From 1989 to 2019, the foundation granted a total of The foundation also extends grants for international exAs a company with an essential social role, Tokuyama also carries more than 899 million yen to 460 persons. The grants are change, international symposiums, and science and technolFeature out various activities to maintain good relations with its neighbors. in the sum of two million yen, and for researchers under 45 ogy education. It supports science education by co-sponInteraction with local communities is being promoted not just by the years of age. soring a youth chemistry fair organized by the Chugoku and Company, but also by employees on their own initiative. Starting in fiscal 2020, the foundation is offering a one milShikoku chapter of The Chemical Society of Japan. The anlion yen start-up grant for young researchers with less than nual fair, which began in 1993, features hands-on labs and three years of experience in a research position who are also attracts some 3,000 kids and parents. Community Cooperation and Social Contribution Activities ■ Supporting Youth Education for the were shown a MIRAI hydrogen car and learned also received a distinguished service award from Next Generation about how hydrogen can be utilized to build a the Yamaguchi Prefecture Invention Association Environment sustainable world. recognizing his longtime efforts. The Tokuyama Factory actively supports youth Tokuyama has been donating book gift certifieducation by hosting field trips of local elementary cates to local schools through the Mikage Bunko ■ Tokuyama Factory Responsible Care school students and visiting schools to conduct book program since 1978, its 60th year in busiCommunity Dialogue workshops for students. ness. As of 2020, the program had donated over The Tokuyama Factory invited Grade 3 students 211 million yen over its 43 years of operation. The Tokuyama Factory organizes a Responsible Care from four elementary schools in Shunan City (photo Community Dialogue to communicate its process at left). The students learned about everyday prod■ Tokuyama Chemical Club Receives safety, accident prevention, and environmental conucts made from sea salt and saw the scale of the 2019 Chemical Communication Award servation initiatives to local residents’ associations. plant while learning about its facilities and safety The dialogue on September 20, 2019 was initiatives. Tokuyama employees visited the local The Tokuyama Chemical Club conducts hands-on attended by 28 persons from 17 local residents’ Tokuyama Elementary School to conduct workchemistry labs for kids using everyday items to associations and four officials from Shunan City. shops on material recycling for Grade 5 students. communicate the wonders of chemistry and make The theme of this 16th dialogue was “The EvThe Company also participated in an environmental chemistry fun. The program, which is held in several eryday Preparations and Emergency Response event organized by the Hikari City government, areas, received a 2019 Chemical Communication Efforts of the Tokuyama Factory.” The attendees Society offering a lecture on hydrogen energy for Grade 1 Award from the Japan Union of Chemical Science were briefed on the plant’s chemical substance students of Asae Junior High School. The students and Technology. Masahiro Takesue, club director, use and management, emergency response, public relations activities, and accident prevention drills. They also visited the manufacturing facilities of the cement plant. ■ Aid for Areas Affected by Typhoon Hagibis Tokuyama donated 10 million yen in aid to assist victims and communities affected by Typhoon Governance Hagibis, which left a path of destruction in eastern Workshop on hydrogen energy at Corporate donation to the Hands-on chemical lab using bamboo for Masahiro Takesue, Director Japan in October 2019. a local school Mikage Bunko book program chemistry students of Nanyo Technical High of the Tokuyama Chemical School, organized by Tokuyama Chemical Club Club, receives a distinguished service award 36 TOKUYAMA CSR REPORT 2020 Students explore a salt mound TOKUYAMA CSR REPORT 2020 37 at the Tokuyama Factory Developing Talent and About us Promoting Diversity Shunan Swimming Club Receives Eruboshi Certification In December 2019, Shunan Swimming Club Co., Ltd. a Group company, received “Eruboshi” certification in recognition “Eruboshi” certification Material issue: Developing human resources and emphasizing diversity of its tremendous efforts to empower mark with three stars Misae Aimoto, President (right), receiving the certificate women in the workplace. “Eruboshi” certification, which is granted at three levels, is based on of management positions held by women, and (e) diversity While pursuing the four values stated in the Tokuyama Vision, the five criteria for evaluating whether a workplace environment of career-path options. Shunan Swimming Club has received Feature Company is working hard to develop talent and promote diversity. emboldens women: (a) recruitment, (b) employee retention, the highest level of certification by meeting all five criteria. Tokuyama wants all employees to make the most of their unique (c) working hours and other work conditions, (d) percentage gifts and abilities. Tokuyama Human Resource encouraging adoption of the Tokuyama Vision, Under the new system, evaluation of how well emfor women, in fiscal 2019 Tokuyama fell short of while ensuring that all employees receive impartial ployee behavior displays Tokuyama’s four values (see its goals in the areas of discontinuing non-manDevelopment treatment under a thoroughly applied, fair evaluation page 3) has been added to the personnel evaluation agement track positions and expanding women’s Tokuyama’s human resource development systems, system. Following system changes for managers and criteria, in order to ensure that the personal system areas of responsibility. At the end of fiscal 2019, including global training and Next-Generation senior contract employees, a new personnel system helps to drive achievement of the Tokuyama Vision. the Company added the goal of building more Environment Business Leader (NBL) training, focus on helping was introduced for general employees in fiscal 2020. comfortable workplaces and updated the plan for employees improve their abilities and interpersonal The new system is a role-based grade system two years. Tokuyama is also working to improve Promoting Diversity skills as free-thinking individuals. The goal is to that emphasizes action. The roles and level of work workplace environments for people with disabilities, develop high-quality talent capable of taking the expected by the Company are presented for each Tokuyama is promoting diversity to ensure that aiming for the legally mandated employment rate initiative and exercising creativity. grade to encourage employees to take on challenges. all employees can work with energy and succeed. of 2.2%. For end-of-career workers, the Company The new system also provides multiple Tokuyama values diversity of knowledge and inteloffers re-employment contracts up to the age of career-path options accommodating a variety ligence and seeks to create workplaces that are 65. Currently, 170 employees (approximately 7% of Personnel System Reform of work styles and job categories, such as sales, pleasant and motivating, while aiming to improve the workforce) are on these contracts. Tokuyama is reforming its personnel system to manufacturing, and R&D. The system is designed to productivity, by reforming the workplace culture. increase the work satisfaction of employees. The enable early promotion based on the scope of the While striving to promote more opportunities aim is to change the organizational culture by expected roles as well as results and actions. Transition of Grade System Society from Job-Function-Based to Role-Based Tokuyama Employees Tokuyama Corporation Action Plan to Promote Opportunities for Women (Tokuyama Corporation) Duration: April 1, 2020–March 31, 2022 Old system New system FY2017 FY2018 FY2019 Performance Performance Performance Target Target Value Grade system based Grade system based on role (March 2016) (April 2018) (April 2020) Men 1,750 1,750 1,849 on job function Number of employees Women 170 174 214 Target 1: Percentage of women among university No less than 20% 25％ 23％ 19％ graduates who are hired (3-year moving average) Managerial Total 1,920 1,924 2,063 positions Men 23［5］ 58［10］ 120［60］ Target 2: Percentage of women among all Step-by-step advancement in job function Number of new hires No less than 6% 4.7% 6.0% 6.1% assistant managers Assistant [Number of mid-career hires] Women 4［0］ 8［1］ 16［7］ managers A Senior-level Total 27［5］ 66［11］ 136［67］ Target 3: Percentage of women among all employees No less than 2% 1.2% 1.5% 1.8% managers*¹ Changing roles Number of rehired Single year 34 26 24 Senior-level Senior-level employee A employee C individuals Total 216 172 142 Sales positions:*² Sales positions: Sales positions: Sales positions: 10 employees Mid-career Men 21.5 20.9 19.6 4 employees 7 employees 12 employees employees Target 4: Expand women's areas of responsibility Mid-career Mid-career All production Average years of service Women 18.0 17.6 15.3 All production divisions: All production divisions: All production divisions: Governance employees A employees C divisions:*³ 13 employees 14 employees 19 employees Average 21.2 20.6 19.1 20 employees Entry-level Entry-level Turnover rate (%) 1.3 0.9 0.7 employees (New) employees B No less than 75% ― ― 72.2% Employment rate of people with disabilities (%) 2.0 2.0 1.9 Target 5: Average usage rate of annual paid leave *1. Including positions equivalent to managerial positions *2. Sales positions includes persons externally engaged in direct client services, such as technical sales, quality assurance, etc. *3. Excluding supervisors 38 TOKUYAMA CSR REPORT 2020 TOKUYAMA CSR REPORT 2020 39 Developing Talent and Promoting Diversity Creating a Health-Conscious Workplace About us care recipients, it is possible to take off two days a Promoting Work-Life Balance week (legal requirement: five days a year). At Tokuyama, employees in workplaces eligible for To support those on childcare and family care flextime can choose their workday schedules with leave and help them eventually make a smooth CSR issue: Promoting mental and physical health no core work-period requirement. The Company is transition back to work, internal information is also striving to optimize working hours by tracking shared with them on the intranet. In addition, and presenting aggregate data based on the an employee reinstatement system has been computer log details of employees, enabling actual established to allow employees who resigned for Tokuyama regards the maintenance and promotion of the health of its employees working conditions to be managed. childcare or family care reasons to be rehired. as a management issue and takes a variety of initiatives so that employees can Under a program to help employees balance work enthusiastically in the workplace and lead fulfilling lives at home and Feature work and childcare responsibilities, shortened Annual Paid Leave Usage and Non-scheduled in the community. working hours can be received from 10 weeks Working Hours before childbirth until the child starts elementary FY2015 FY2016 FY2017 FY2018 FY2019 school. Eligible employees can also use flextime Annual paid leave, 15.9 days 15.2 days 15.2 days 15.7 days 15.2 days from the time that pregnancy is determined until average days used the child reaches sixth grade.*¹ Starting April 2019, Annual paid leave, health checkups and ensure that proper health average usage rate 76.6% 73.6% 73.2% 75.6% 72.2％ Health Management at Tokuyama the period during which paid parental leave can Non-scheduled guidance is provided by industrial health staff. be obtained was extended to within one year after working hours average 6.3 hours 7.7 hours 8.3 hours 9.8 hours 10.3 hours Tokuyama has a company-wide health management (per month) child birth. Childcare leave can be obtained until plan designed to develop employees’ mental and ■ Promoting Mental Health Care the child reaches age two.*² The rate of women rephysical health and promote measures against Usage of Childcare and Family Care Leave, Etc. turning to work after prenatal/postnatal leave and lifestyle diseases. The plan has the goals of raising Tokuyama aims for early detection and response to FY2015 FY2016 FY2017 FY2018 FY2019 Environment childcare leave in fiscal 2019 remained at 100% individual health awareness, keeping the rate of mental health issues by giving occupational stress Number of employees from the previous year. taking childcare leave 10 13 11 12 12 findings on health checkups at 44% or less, and tests to all employees, interviewing people with Employees can also take family care leave for reducing the rate of leave taken due to health high levels of stress, and offering enhanced consulReturn to work rate 90.0% 84.6% 100.0% 100.0% 100.0% up to two years (legal requirement: 93 days in total) problems. The Company is taking various actions tation services. Tokuyama Factory alone, seeking for each family member requiring care. With family Number of employees 18 人 13 人 25 人 33 人 65 人 including those described below. to improve the work environment through stress taking parental leave care time off (unpaid), regardless of the number of reduction and self-care education, held 21 mental Family care leave-taker 1人 1人 2人 2人 1人 ■ Implementing the Smart Life Program health training sessions in 2019, and 485 people, *1. Employees who are pregnant or raising a child in sixth grade or younger can work shortened hours below the prescribed monthly work hours, and can Number of employees 59% of the target, participated in the sessions. 1人 1人 0人 1人 1人 work intermittently with interruptions and resumption of work. taking family care time off The Smart Life Program is tackling lifestyle diseas*2. In certain cases, leave can be taken until the child reaches age two. Number of flextime users 52 人 55 人 54 人 50 人 52 人 es by encouraging employees to keep records of their weight, number of steps walked, and blood pressure on the personal health portal site My Health Web. It also offers anti-smoking help such as Recognized for Health raising awareness of the harmfulness of smoking, and Productivity Management Society Nobuyuki reducing indoor smoking areas, and encouraging Raising Four Children Improved Kurokawa “no smoking day” during working hours on the In March 2020, Tokuyama My Awareness of Time Management Polysilicon Sales Dept. 22nd of every month. was recognized under the large enterprise category in My first daughter was born in early April when the effects much before due to ■ Offering Health Guidance and Fighting the 2020 Certified Health of COVID-19 were in full swing. I also have three boys in work, I didn’t do a very Lifestyle Diseases and Productivity Management Organization Recognition elementary school, but with their school closed, everyone good job. Thinking Program.* Tokuyama was rated highly for its weight Working with the Health Insurance Association, ended up at home all day. about how I could be more efficient, I was reminded of the management and anti-smoking measures as well as Tokuyama provides specific health guidance to I myself had started working from home on a temporary importance of time management. One of the valuable things its mental health care initiatives including occupational employees in person and in emails. As a result, the basis at the end of March to prevent infection in the compaabout work-life balance is applying the lessons learned at stress tests and internal/external consultation desks. 2020 health checkup showed an improvement in ny, and so I used the time that my commute used to take to home to work. 44% of those who had received health guidance Governance *This program recognizes corporations with outstanding initiatives care for my kids. If the adoption of telecommuting due to COVID-19 leads to in the previous year. The Company will continue in employee health management that tackle the issue strategically I gave milk to the baby, changed her diapers, and helped the choice to work from home in the future, I am certain that from a business management perspective. METI designed the to conduct regular health checkups and specific the older kids with their studies. But since I hadn’t helped out many employees, not just those raising children, would benefit. program and the Nippon Kenko Kaigi administers certification. 40 TOKUYAMA CSR REPORT 2020 TOKUYAMA CSR REPORT 2020 41 Corporate Governance Corporate Governance Structure About us Shareholders’ Meeting Appoint/dismiss Appoint/dismiss Appoint/dismiss Report Board of Directors Accounting Auditors Whistle-blowing Audit/ Audit and Supervisory System CSR issue: Strengthening corporate governance Human Resources Committee supervise Committee Audit Assist Decide/ Collaborate Helpline Audit Audit and Supervisory supervise Committee Office Tokuyama sees internal control as the basis for CSR and works Business Operations to strengthen corporate governance in order to further increase Helpline Committee the confidence of stakeholders and enhance corporate value. In Feature addition, the Company is thoroughly implementing risk management Executive Committee President CSR Promotion Council Departments Responsible and compliance group-wide, as the core elements of internal control. Strategy Committee for Internal Auditing Risk Management and Compliance Committee Auditing Dept. RC Management Dept. Seven Committees Internal audit Instruct/support/request Business Divisions, Back-Office Divisions, Research Laboratories, Factories and Group Companies Audit and Supervisory Committee CSR Promotion Council Corporate Governance at Tokuyama Environment The Audit and Supervisory Committee is comprised Tokuyama operates a CSR Promotion Council In keeping with Japan’s Corporate Governance of four directors, including three outside committee that is chaired by the president and comprises all Code, Tokuyama respects the rights and equality members. They attend Board of Directors meetings executive officers in Japan. The Council decides on of stakeholders and is strengthening the superand other important meetings to monitor the busithe policies and goals related to CSR, and facilitates visory functions and independence of the Board ness execution by executive officers. Tokuyama’s CSR initiatives. CSR initiatives are of Directors. Tokuyama is also encouraging faster anchored in the suitable execution of corporate decision-making and clarifying the responsibilities Human Resources Committee governance and internal controls, so the CSR Profor business execution, while endeavoring to The Human Resources Committee is comprised of motion Council also discusses important matters practice suitable information disclosure, achieve representative directors and outside directors and relating to internal controls. transparency, and engage in constructive dialogue holds discussions on such matters as remuneraThe Risk Management and Compliance Comwith shareholders. tion for directors and executive officers and the mittee operates under the CSR Promotion Council, In April 2019, the criteria for selecting outside selection of candidates for director and executive and is chaired by the director responsible for the directors were revised. This enables freer choice of officer positions. Corporate Social Responsibility Division. The Comindependent outside director candidates suitable mittee promotes risk management and compliance, Society for improving the governance of the Company, Executive Committee which are central to internal controls (see page 44). and enhances the independence and supervisory The Executive Committee, comprised of executive function of the Board. officers selected by the president, meets twice a Helpline Committee month to discuss and finalize key strategies adoptThe Helpline Committee was set up as a whised by the Board of Directors. tleblowing channel to enable internal reporting of ■ Corporate Governance Structure legally questionable actions and behavior. Strategy Committee Board of Directors The Strategy Committee discusses important matInternal Auditing Tokuyama’s Board of Directors deliberates and ters such as the pros and cons of pursuing certain Tokuyama has established the Auditing Departmakes decisions on important matters concerning businesses and the manner in which they should be ment and the Responsible Care Management the execution of the Company’s business while executed, to assist the president in determining the Department and tasked them with responsibility for supervising business operations. The Company has direction of business objectives. internal auditing. Governance appointed three outside directors to the Board to strengthen its supervisory function. 42 TOKUYAMA CSR REPORT 2020 TOKUYAMA CSR REPORT 2020 43 Risk Management and About us Compliance Joint BCP drill at the Tokyo Head Office ■ Seven Committees The following seven committees have been established under the CSR Promotion Council. Financial Reporting Committee: This committee controls the process of preparing financial reports through accounting to ensure the reliability of CSR issue: Implementing risk management and compliance financial disclosures. Members are appointed from relevant departments as well as from the business management group engaged in accounting. Tokuyama regards risk management and compliance as the two Fair Trade and Competition Committee: This comNo secondary damage was confirmed. Tokuyama Feature sides of the implementation of internal control. In order to deliver mittee has established a company-wide system to is working to prevent a recurrence and strengthen on its social responsibilities and ensure its business is sound and reduce compliance risks related to fair trade, with information security, including tighter management sustainable, it carries out various initiatives to strengthen risk a focus on compliance with the Antimonopoly Act. of accounts and passwords. management and ensure thorough compliance. It is working to improve and raise the level of the Tokuyama Group’s Five Conscience Clauses system while monitoring its operational status. (on the back of the employee ID) ■ Business Continuity Management (BCM) Security Trade Committee: This committee properly implements security export controls to help In order to keep important businesses and opermaintain international peace and security. It also ations going even in unforeseen circumstances, prevents violations of laws and regulations related Tokuyama practices business continuity manageRisk Management Risk Management Framework to exports and other transactions. ment in normal times. This includes formulating and Tokuyama manages risk through the Risk ManageBoard of Directors Information Security Committee: This committee revising the BCP, securing budgets and resources Environment ment and Compliance Committee, which operates decides basic policies on, and raises awareness for business continuity, and taking proactive steps under the CSR Promotion Council. It also has expert CSR Promotion Council about, information security in general in order to improve business continuity capabilities. committees focused on risk management and President to promote active use and safeguarding of the In January 2020, the Tokyo Head Office conRisk Management and compliance in seven critical and specialized areas Compliance Committee Group’s information assets. It also promotes the ducted a BCP drill on the premise of a mega-earthto ensure management through the deliberation of protection of personal information. quake in the Nankai Trough. It was run jointly by key issues. The Company has designated a unit reSeven Committees Environmental Committee: This committee deliberthe Crisis Response Headquarters headed by the sponsible for regulations concerning management Financial Reporting Committee ates and decides on environmental policies as well as President and the Disaster Response Headquarters of the risk of loss and conducts activities based on Fair Trade and Competition Committee plans and measures for environmental management. headed by the general manager of the General the management regulations. Safety Committee: This committee deliberates and Affairs and Human Resources Division. Security Trade Committee It also works to mitigate compliance risk by esdetermines safety policies as well as safety manIn February 2020, Tokuyama established a Information Security Committee tablishing management systems for understanding agement plans and their performance. Crisis Response Headquarters to address the novel important laws and regulations that are relevant Environment Committee Product Safety and Quality Assurance Committee: coronavirus and has taken measures to ensure to business execution and keeping track of trends Safety Committee This committee deliberates and determines prodthe safety of employees worldwide and business in amendments to these laws and regulations. The uct safety and quality policies as well as product continuity. In Japan, it encouraged telecommuting, Society Product Safety and Quality Assurance Committee Company also has established a BCP and other safety and quality management action plans and especially in urban areas, by flexibly applying its exmeasures in order to ensure an appropriate retheir performance. isting telecommuting system, and it expanded the sponse for the type and severity of any crisis. application of its leave system to employees raising children of junior high school age and younger, to Each committee formulates a Departments that are ■ Promoting Information Security plan and gains approval from under the supervision help during temporary school closures. the CSR Promotion Council of each committee proactively implement the Tokuyama has formulated a security policy and Tokuyama Group’s Five Conscience Clauses strategies in their work works hard to ensure the security of information PDCA assets such as client information. These efforts inOur behavior shall: Cycle of CSRCompliance Oriented clude launching an organization (CSIRT) to prevent (1) Comply with laws, regulations and internal rules (2) Conform to the Tokuyama Group Code of Conduct Management incidents and respond instantly to minimize damage Tokuyama Group understands “compliance” to have Each committee (3) Justify the trust of customers and trading partners if an incident should occur. In March 2020, the aca broad meaning, including not only compliance discusses the count information of an employee of a Group comwith laws and internal rules but also behaving sensiGovernance (4) Earn the respect of society and general consumers implementation status Committees verify the of the strategies and (5) Maintain standards that can be spoken of with pride formulates the next plan implementation status of the pany outside Japan was exploited and about 440 bly in a manner that conforms with corporate ethics strategies at the end of the in front of family members and coworkers fiscal year spam emails were sent with unauthorized access. and meets social expectations. To communicate 44 TOKUYAMA CSR REPORT 2020 TOKUYAMA CSR REPORT 2020 45 Risk Management and Compliance About us and spread awareness of compliance throughout socially responsible management and its proactive 2. Environmental Conservation and Protection 2. Prevention of Insider Trading the Group, the Company has put together a handCSR initiatives. (1) The Group will voluntarily address environmental issues based on The Group will strive to prevent any person in its employ from exploiting a recognition of their significance to all humanity and their vital non-public information pertaining to matters inside or outside the Group book presenting the Tokuyama Group Code of importance to the continuation of business activities. that he/she has come to know of in the course of his/her duties for the purpose of selling or buying securities, including stocks, for his/her own Conduct, the responsibilities of Senior Management (2) In the course of the research, development and manufacture of its ■ Whistle-Blowing System products as well as in the sale and disposal of its products and gain and, further, to prevent such persons from exploiting non-public under the Tokuyama Group Code of Conduct, and goods, including those manufactured by other companies, the Group information to provide benefits or favors to a third party. will at all times remain fully aware of the importance of environmental the Tokuyama Group’s Five Conscience Clauses. It An internal helpline has been established to enprotection. The Group will produce environmentally conscious V. Relationship with Executives and Employees is distributed to all Group employees. able safe, anonymous reporting and consultation products, complying with environment-related laws and regulations. 1. Respect for Human Rights and Prohibition of Discrimination 3. Establishment of Systems for Ensuring Safety regarding compliance violations involving the In the course of the research, development and manufacture of its (1) The Group will value the diversity, character and personality of each person in its employ and will not discriminate on the basis of race, products as well as in the storage and transportation of its products and Tokuyama Group (including potential violations) ethnic origin, gender, creed, nationality, religion, disability, disease or ■ Compliance Education & Training goods, including those manufactured by other companies, and in the educational background. without fear of unfavorable treatment. Reporting provision of its services, the Group will comply with safety-related laws (2) The Group will have no involvement with child labor or forced labor. and regulations. At the same time, the Group will continually strive to To reduce compliance risk, Tokuyama provides and consultation can be carried out by post, email, (3) The Group will allow no person in its employ to degrade individual Feature increase the sophistication of its systems for ensuring safety. dignity in any manner, including by speaking or acting in ways that 4. Security and Export Control training on legal obligations for new directors and or phone. Eight reports were made in 2019, and all To fulfill its responsibility to help maintain international peace and safety, bring discomfort to others. auditors of Group companies and a variety of comwere addressed satisfactorily. the Group will comply with laws and regulations that control the export of 2. Respect for Privacy cargo and technologies. The Group will respect the privacy of the persons in its employ and pliance training programs for employees. In 2019, The helpline is operated with due consideration 5. Nurturing Sound Relationships with Political properly manage their personal information. 3. Compliance with Labor-Related Laws and Regulations these training programs were held on 57 occasions. for the protection of whistleblowers. Employees can and Governmental Organizations The Group will nurture highly transparent relationships with political The Group will comply with labor-related laws and regulations and strive The Company also implemented e-learning use the helpline without disclosing their name or and governmental organizations, avoid behavior that can be alleged to to maintain a comfortable working atmosphere. constitute misconduct, and cultivate fair and sound relationships with 4. Workplace Safety and the Promotion of Health programs for managers focused on preventing department to the Company, and women are able such organizations. (1) The Group will strive to maintain a safe and clean working environment. (2) The Group will steadily take steps to prevent work-related injuries workplace harassment and covering the basics of to consult with a female attorney. 6. Severing Ties with Antisocial Forces The Group will take a firm stand against antisocial forces that pose a or deaths. threat to public order and safety, and will thoroughly separate itself from (3) The Group will always pay attention to the mental and physical health any relationship with such forces. conditions of the persons in its employ. III. Relationships with Customers and Trading Partners VI. Our Handling of Group Assets and Financial Reporting 1. Reliability of Products and Services 1. Appropriate Use of Group Assets Tokuyama Group Code of Conduct With a constant focus on safety requirements, the Group will develop and The Group will efficiently utilize its tangible and intangible assets, protect Environment manufacture products and services that have value to society. In doing such assets against impairment and theft, prohibit any personal use of All Tokuyama Group members commit to the following essential principles to 4. Respect for Human Rights and Individuality so, the Group will strive to implement a higher level of quality assurance such assets and ensure that such assets are appropriately administered. ensure the Group operates in a way that meets social expectations and delivers • We respect the basic rights of people in our business and do not in order to meet the quality requirements of its customers and consumers 2. Reliable Financial Reporting sustained growth by earning the continued support of customers and the trust discriminate on the basis of race, sexuality, creed, nationality or and earn their trust. (1) The Group will implement proper accounting procedures in of society. (Established: May 12, 2009) religion. 2. Fair, Free and Transparent Competition and Reasonable Trade accordance with generally accepted accounting standards. • We value diversity in the workplace and provide a safe and comfortable (1) The Group will comply with laws and regulations relating to cartels, Accordingly, the Group will accurately record all transactions work environment to ensure satisfaction and opportunity for each bid rigging, the maintenance of resale prices and abuses of dominant related to business activities and properly maintain such records. 1. Compliance employee. position. In doing so, the Group will conduct reasonable transactions (2) The Group will not make any false or fictitious statements or reports We act with good corporate ethics and common sense, based on the of financial information. 5. Communications by engaging in fair, free and transparent competition. understanding that compliance with laws and corporate rules is the We make fair and positive public disclosure of information about our (2) The Group will establish and comply with basic purchasing policies 3. Management of Confidential Information most important requirement in all business activities. Group including its business activities and financial reports to maintain to ensure the fairness and transparency of its procurement activities, (1) The Group will properly manage its own confidential information in 2. Fair Business Activities good communication with society. including work that is consigned or contracted out. accordance with its corporate rules. •We aim to be moderate and reasonable in our business and practice (3) The Group will select its trading partners not only based on economic (2) In the event the Group needs to disclose such confidential fair, free, and transparent competition. 6. Social Contributions rationality, but also after taking into account the initiative shown by information to the outside, the Group shall ensure that prior approval • We actively seek to contribute to society as a good corporate citizen. •We maintain fair and reasonable relationships with political and these trading partners to fulfill their social responsibilities. has been obtained in accordance with predetermined procedures • Wecontribute to the development of local regions in our international governmental organizations. (4) The Group will comply with laws and regulations related to the set out in its corporate rules and work to prevent the unexpected business activities, respecting not only international rules, local laws, protection of subcontractors. 3. Responsible Care leakage of information by taking such steps as concluding and regulations, but also local cultures and customs. •We develop, manufacture and supply products and services that 3. Entertainment and Gift Giving non-disclosure agreements. have value to society, with a constant focus on safety requirements, 7. Exclusion of Antisocial Forces (1) When any person in the Group’s employ entertains or provides (3) The Group shall handle any personal information acquired in the to ensure that we can satisfy our customers and consumers and earn We do not enter into any business arrangement with antisocial forces gifts to customers or trading partners or is the recipient of gifts or course of business only within the scope of its purpose of use. In their trust. that threaten public order and safety. entertainment, the value and nature of such gifts and entertainment cases where the Group needs to use such personal information for shall not be in excess or violation of social norms or of internationally purposes beyond said scope, it shall obtain prior consent from the Society •We voluntarily and proactively address environmental issues based on an understanding of their significance to all people and their accepted conventional wisdom. individual concerned. importance to the continuation of business activities. (2) With the desire to abolish empty formalities, all persons in the 4. Appropriate Use of Information Systems Group’s employ should abstain from inter-Group gift-giving as well The Group will appropriately use and administer its in-house information as exchanges of gifts or other items on the individual level, except in systems in accordance with its corporate rules. those cases that fall within acceptable business norms. 5. Protection and Use of Intellectual Property Rights 4. Other Companies’ Trade Secrets (1) The Group will appropriately use its own intellectual property rights as (1) The Group shall not, directly or indirectly, acquire other companies’ important assets and work to protect and maintain such rights. trade secrets in a dishonest manner. Also, in no case shall it, directly (2) The Group will use the intellectual properties for which another party Tokuyama Group Guidelines for Business Activities II. Relationship with Society or indirectly, use such secrets in a dishonest manner. holds the rights only after concluding an appropriate agreement 1. Contribution to Society (2) The Group shall not use another company’s trade secrets except for between the Group and said other party, and it shall not use such (Preface) (1) While perceiving the needs of consumers and customers, the purposes permitted by the said company. rights in a dishonest manner. These Guidelines set out the essential principles that govern the ongoing business Group will develop and provide products and services that have Supplement activities of the Tokuyama Group (hereinafter referred to as the “Group”), which value to society with the aim of contributing to sustainable social IV. Relationship with Shareholders and Investors Upon the prior consent of Tokuyama Corporation, Group member aims to realize a sustainable future in tandem with society and to gain the trust and development. companies may partially amend the content of these Guidelines to reflect appreciation of individual stakeholders. (2) As it responds to the globalization of business operations, the Group 1. Timely, Appropriate and Easy-to-Understand Information Disclosure The Group will endeavor to disclose not only information on its business applicable laws and regulations as well as local cultural considerations. will respect local cultures and customs as well as the interests of the local stakeholders while complying with international and local management and financial status, but non-financial information, including I. Basic Principle data on the products and services that it provides to society as well as rules, laws and regulations. In doing so, the Group will contribute The Group will not only comply with laws, regulations and its corporate to regional development in the course of its international business on the environmental and social aspects of its business operations. In Governance rules, but also adhere to strict corporate ethics and conduct its activities. addition to its shareholders and investors, the Group will publicly disclose business activities with decency. (3) Each company of the Group will actively seek to engage in social such information for the benefit of society and strive to make such contribution activities as a good corporate citizen. disclosure timely, appropriate and easy-to-understand. 46 TOKUYAMA CSR REPORT 2020 TOKUYAMA CSR REPORT 2020 47 Business Activities and Biodiversity / Detailed Data *Prepared referencing Guidelines for Private Sector Engagement in Biodiversity, Second Edition (Ministry of the Environment, Japan) Other inputs Relocation of species and introduction of non-native Relocation of species and introduction of non-native Use of energy Ballast water measures Ballast water measures Acceleration of crisis caused by global warming due species through transport species through transport to CO2 emissions from transport of raw materials Distribution (introduction of transport vehicles, etc.) Acceleration of crisis caused by global warming due to Acceleration of crisis caused by global warming due to Promotion of modal shift Promotion of modal shift Introduction of facilities Management of per-unit energy consumption, CO2 emissions from product transport CO2 emissions from transport of raw materials and fuel reduction of the use of fossil fuel through biomass cofiring, promotion of CO2 reduction Supply chain Supply chain Input Manufacture of products at Output business sites Impact from use of biological Raw materials Impact on downstream industry materials, such as biomass Design, development, Products: inorganic/organic (pollution, changes in habitats, climate (excess consumption, changes Fuel manufacturing and processing change) chemicals, cement, Appropriate disclosure of in habitats) electronic materials, information through SDS, etc. Waste and by-products functional materials, etc. Impact from use (pollution, changes in Impact from raw material Land use production in manufacturing Water use habitats) industry (pollution, climate change, changes in habitats) Improvement in effective Acceptance of industrial waste Disposal of waste (pollution, changes Impact on ecosystems and in habitats, climate change) utilization rate for waste habitats from extraction of coal, and promotion of zero salt and mineral resources Appropriate management of emissions: NOx, waste emissions SOx, soot, volatile organic compounds, Impact from use of water resources Impact from emissions of chemical substances into water, air and soil (pollution) PRTR substances, fluorocarbons, chemical Social contribution activities (excessive consumption, changes oxygen demand (COD), suspended solids in habitats) (SS), nitrogen, phosphorus Appropriate management of business Impact from industrial waste, etc. (pollution, changes in habitats) sites and areas of greenery Participation in volunteer forestry activities Adoption of CSR Procurement Guidelines Changes in habitats due to land use (work and construction on business sites, etc.) Improvement in effective utilization rate for Sowing of seeds and afforestation, waste and promotion of zero waste Influence on ecosystem emissions Participation in community clean-up activities etc. on mine and former mine lands Initiatives to reduce influence on ecosystem Flow of Materials in Business Activities Emissions of Hazardous Air Pollutants Input (Unit: 1,000 metric tons) FY2015 FY2016 FY2017 FY2018 FY2019 Comparison with previous fiscal year (%) Unit: Metric tons FY2015 FY2016 FY2017 FY2018 FY2019 Comparison with previous fiscal year (%) Waste and by-products 1,780 1,830 1,880 1,870 1,850 -1.1 Dichloromethane (methylene chloride) 1.7 2.3 1.8 1.4 1.4 0.0 Fuel 1,810 2,050 2,250 2,150 2,150 0.0 Chloroform 1.1 1.7 1.6 1.2 1.2 0.0 Raw materials 5,990 6,020 6,760 6,670 6,720 0.7 1,2-Dichloroethane 10.6 6.4 6.3 10 6.2 -38.0 Industrial water 42,100 44,100 45,500 44,700 43,500 -2.7 Chloroethylene (vinyl chloride) 7.7 5.4 7.6 6.8 5.2 -23.5 Output (Unit: 1,000 metric tons) FY2015 FY2016 FY2017 FY2018 FY2019 Comparison with previous fiscal year (%) Carbon dioxide 5,910 6,000 6,300 6,500 6,600 1.5 Discharge of Industrial Effluent Waste (incinerated and landfill) 22 22 21 23 20 -13.0 FY2015 FY2016 FY2017 FY2018 FY2019 Comparison with previous fiscal year (%) Substances with environmental impact 9.7 9.9 10.6 11.4 11.4 0.0 Industrial effluent (million metric tons) 24.2 24.2 24 24.5 22.2 -9.4 Process effluent 24,000 24,200 24,200 24,500 22,200 -9.4 Water Pollutant Emissions Energy Consumed on a Per-Unit Basis at the Tokuyama Factory Unit: Metric tons FY2015 FY2016 FY2017 FY2018 FY2019 Comparison with previous fiscal year (%) Unit: % Base year (FY2005) FY2016 FY2017 FY2018 FY2019 Target (FY2020) COD 126 116 121 129 103 -20.2 Per-unit energy consumption 100 93.6 90.5 91.2 91.0 97.0 Nitrogen 92 145 173 159 170 6.9 Phosphorous 2.2 2.1 2.1 2.3 1.5 -34.8 Energy Consumption Landfilled and Recycled Waste Unit: 1,000 gigajoules Base year (FY2005) FY2015 FY2016 FY2017 FY2018 FY2019 Tokuyama Corporation 53,700 45,300 47,300 49,600 49,100 49,200 Base year (FY1990) FY2015 FY2016 FY2017 FY2018 FY2019 Group companies 3,500 2,700 2,500 2,700 2,600 2,700 Landfilled waste (metric tons) 36,260 400 380 390 400 680 Effective utilization rate (%) 76.9 94.3 94.2 93.8 93.1 93.9 “Zero emissions” rate (%) 82.4 99.9 99.9 99.9 99.9 99.8 Emissions of CO2 Unit: 1,000 metric tons Base year (FY2005) FY2015 FY2016 FY2017 FY2018 FY2019 Breakdown of Waste Treatment Methods Originating from fuel 4,820 4,120 4,300 4,510 4,440 4,470 Unit: 1,000 metric tons FY2015 FY2016 FY2017 FY2018 FY2019 Comparison with previous fiscal year (%) Originating from raw materials 2,110 1,590 1,720 1,820 1,800 1,850 Waste recycled in-house 346 332 317 286 288 0.7 Originating from waste matter 210 230 250 250 280 250 Waste recycled externally 21.4 23.1 26.7 30.2 26.6 -11.9 Group companies 250 200 190 190 180 190 Incinerated waste 21.9 21.5 22.5 23 19.7 -14.3 Waste sent to landfills 0.4 0.4 0.4 0.4 0.7 75.0 Emissions of SOx, NOx, and Soot Total waste generated 389 377 367 339 335 -1.2 Unit: Metric tons FY2015 FY2016 FY2017 FY2018 FY2019 Comparison with previous fiscal year (%) SOx 680 750 780 800 810 1.3 Amount of Waste Matter and By-Products Used to Produce Cement NOx 8,900 9,470 10,100 10,100 10,220 1.2 Unit: Kg per metric ton of cement Base year (FY1991) FY2015 FY2016 FY2017 FY2018 FY2019 Soot 138 138 168 122 127 4.1 Amount used 227 459 441 430 425 417 Emissions of PRTR Substances Material and Thermal Recycling Amounts in Cement Production Unit: Metric tons FY2015 FY2016 FY2017 FY2018 FY2019 Comparison with previous fiscal year (%) Unit: 1,000 metric tons Base year (FY1991) FY2015 FY2016 FY2017 FY2018 FY2019 Tokuyama Corporation 37 30 30 34 25 -26.5 Material recycling 1,550 1,711 1,746 1,800 1,786 1,766 Group companies 40 34 37 34 35 2.9 Thermal recycling 4 74 84 79 82 81 48 TOKUYAMA CSR REPORT 2020 TOKUYAMA CSR REPORT 2020 49 Site Reports Site Reports Degree of target achievement: Results of Environmental Protection Initiatives by the Tokuyama Factory in Fiscal 2019 Achieved ( ◯ ) Not achieved ( Ｘ ) Tokuyama Location: 1-1, Mikage-cho, Shunan-shi, Yamaguchi, Japan Category Items FY2019 Target FY2019 Result Rating FY2020 Target Number of employees: 1,622 Factory Total site area: 1.91 million ㎡ Atmosphere Soot +4％ – Main products: Cement, inorganic chemical products, organic chemical products, Highpurity polycrystalline silicon, fumed silica, High-purity Aluminum Nitride COD △ 20% – (AlN), polyvinyl chloride, and other products Environmental Impact Maintain the current low impact Water Quality Nitrogen +7% – Maintain the current low-impact situation* Reduction situation* Still situated at the Company's first business site, the Tokuyama Factory is the Group's main Phosphorus △ 35% – manufacturing facility, and its products account for about 90% of non-consolidated sales. The factory operates with the motto,“Go to work healthy and return home happy.”In fiscal 2020, PRTR PRTR △ 29% – the factory is placing top priority on measures to comprehensively remove risks and increase safety awareness and risk sensitivity in an effort to ensure that no accidents or disasters 3% reduction of per-unit energy 3% reduction of per-unit energy Global Environment Energy consumption occur. Reducing GHG emissions from the factory's coal-fired power plant is an urgent issue Energy Conservation consumption by fiscal 2020 △ 9.0% ◯ consumption by fiscal 2020 Conservation on a per-unit basis compared to fiscal 2005 compared to fiscal 2005 from the perspective of the SDGs. The factory is conducting various initiatives such as energy conservation activities, use of renewable energy, and development of CCUS* technology, with Recycling Effective utilization rate Maintain at 92% 94.0% ◯ Achieve 94% a target of achieving a 15% reduction of emissions from the BAU level by fiscal 2030, compared Waste Reduction Hideki Adachi with fiscal 2013 levels. The Tokuyama Factory aims to continue to grow with the local Maintain 99.9% Zero emissions Zero emissions to landfills 99.8% Ｘ Achieve 99.9% reuse/recycling rate Tokuyama Factory General Manager community while striving for a balance between employee health and sustainable operations. reuse/recycling rate * Regarding performance data, Tokuyama has set a separate numerical management target for each department to maintain the current low-impact situation. The table above does ＊CCUS: Carbon dioxide Capture, Utilization and Storage not include specific numerical targets on atmosphere, water quality and PRTR for Tokuyama as a whole. Instead, the year-on-year difference from FY2018 results is shown. Performance Data Unit FY2015 FY2016 FY2017 FY2018 FY2019 SOx emissions Metric tons 680 750 780 800 810 NOx emissions Metric tons 8,900 9,500 10,100 10,100 10,220 Soot emissions Metric tons 138 138 168 122 127 Industrial water consumption Million metric tons 42.1 44.1 44.5 44.7 43.5 Effluent discharged Million metric tons 24.2 24.2 24 24 22 COD level Metric tons 124 114 119 127 101 Total nitrogen discharged Metric tons 92 145 173 159 170 Total phosphorous discharged Metric tons 2.2 2.1 2.1 2.3 1.5 PRTR-designated substance emissions Metric tons 36 29 29 33 24 Waste generated Thousand metric tons 389 376 366 339 335 Waste sent to landfills Metric tons 383 368 382 397 631 Energy consumption Thousand gigajoules 45,100 47,100 49,500 49,000 49,000 CO2 emissions (originating from fossil fuel) Thousand metric tons 4,110 4,290 4,500 4,430 4,460 Complaints Cases 1 0 0 3 0 Emissions and Transfer of Specific PRTR-Designated Substances in Fiscal 2019 Unit: metric tons (mg-TEQ equivalency for dioxins) Regulatory Amount of emissions Amount Substance name number Atmospheric Water Soil Subtotal transferred 1,2-Dichloroethane 157 6.1 0.0 0.0 6.2 0.9 Chloroethylene (vinyl chloride) 94 5.2 0.0 0.0 5.2 0.0 Chloromethane (methyl chloride) 128 3.7 0.0 0.0 3.7 0.0 Chlorodifluoromethane 104 1.8 0.0 0.0 1.8 0.0 Cresol 86 0.0 1.4 0.0 1.4 0.0 Toluene 300 1.9 0.0 0.0 1.9 1.4 Dichloromethane (methylene chloride) 186 1.3 0.0 0.0 1.3 0.0 Chloroform 127 0.8 0.0 0.0 0.8 0.0 1,2-Epoxypropane (propylene oxide) 68 0.6 0.0 0.0 0.6 1.8 Hydrazine 333 0.0 0.0 0.0 0.0 0.0 Substances are listed in descending order of emission levels; substances Water-soluble compounds of zinc 1 0.0 0.6 0.0 0.6 0.0 with no emissions are listed in order of 1-Bromopropane 384 0.1 0.0 0.0 0.1 0.0 the regulatory number 1,2-Dichloropropane 178 0.4 0.0 0.0 0.4 141.6 Water refers to public waters Carbon tetrachloride 149 0.1 0.0 0.0 0.1 0.0 2,2-Azobisisobutyronitrile 16 0.0 0.0 0.0 0.0 0.0 Amount transferred indicates the sum Water-soluble copper salt 272 0.0 0.0 0.0 0.0 0.0 of the quantity transferred to sewage Hydrogen fluoride and its water-soluble form 374 0.0 0.0 0.0 0.0 0.0 systems and the quantity subject to intermediate treatment Benzene 400 0.0 0.0 0.0 0.0 0.0 Boron compounds 405 0.0 0.0 0.0 0.0 0.9 Total figures have been rounded to the Dioxins 243 4.9 2.3 0.0 7.3 0.0 first decimal place Total (excluding dioxins) 21.9 1.9 0.0 23.9 146.5 50 TOKUYAMA CSR REPORT 2020 TOKUYAMA CSR REPORT 2020 51 Site Reports Kashima Location: 26 Sunayama, Kamisu-shi, Ibaraki, Japan Sun • Tox Established: February 14, 1992 Number of employees: 121 Shareholders: Tokuyama Corporation (80%), Rengo Co., Ltd. (20%) Factory Total site area: 101,000㎡ Co., Ltd. Head office: ORIX Ueno1chome Building, 1-1-10 Ueno, Taito-ku, Tokyo, Japan Main products: Produced by Tokuyama Corporation Business activities: Manufacture and sale of biaxial-oriented polypropylene films and cast Bulk pharmaceuticals for diabetes drugs, anti-hypertensive agents, eye polypropylene films drops, allergy medicines; optical materials (plastic lens monomer, light modulating materials, and hard coating solutions) Produced by Tokuyama Dental Corporation Dental materials (composite resins, orthodontic materials, rebasing and relining materials, impression materials, and investment materials) ■ Kanto Plant Sun·Tox's Kanto Plant manufactures biaxial-oriented polypropylene films and cast polypropylene films, which are used for food packaging and other applications. In fiscal The Kashima Factory designates policies for process safety management and ensures that 2017, the plant received the Cogeneration Grand Prize for upgrading its gas cogeneration all workers follow them to create a safe workplace. In fiscal 2020, the factory is focusing on facilities and added another line to its biaxial-oriented polypropylene film manufacturing identifying and eliminating risks using change management to eliminate accidents and prevent facility. These high-efficiency facilities will help the Kanto Plant to further reduce energy disasters. It is also securing compliance with environmental regulations and prioritizing the consumption and environmental impacts. The plant also takes part in clean-up activities reduction of environmental impacts through waste recycling. In fiscal 2019, the factory achieved inside and around the industrial complex to promote harmony with the local community. As it a 77% waste effective utilization rate, generating eleven metric tons of landfill waste and Kazunori Shimada continues to implement three management systems, namely Japan's Occupational Safety and achieving a 99% recycling/reuse rate. The factory will increase the effective utilization rate for all Plant Manager Health Management System (OSHMS), ISO 14001, and ISO 9001, the plant is building on its waste by studying the feasibility of implementing materials recycling and thermal recycling. achievements with the aim to be a community-based factory. Kazumasa Itonaga Performance Data Kashima Factory General Manager Performance Data Unit FY2015 FY2016 FY2017 FY2018 FY2019 Unit FY2015 FY2016 FY2017 FY2018 FY2019 Waste generated Metric tons 15 23 38 44 47 Industrial water consumption Thousand metric tons 43 36 39 25 27 Waste sent to landfills Metric tons 5 10 17 44 15 Effluent discharged Thousand metric tons 54 50 54 39 42 Energy consumption Thousand gigajoules 356 403 467 514 529 COD level Metric tons 2 2 2 2 2 CO2 emissions Thousand metric tons 21 23 23 25 26 PRTR-designated substance emissions Metric tons 2 2 2 1 1 SOx emissions Metric tons 0.3 0.1 ― ― ― Waste generated Metric tons 735 775 761 831 896 NOx emissions Metric tons 0.7 0.4 1.0 1.3 1.5 Waste sent to landfills Metric tons 20 9 9 8 11 Soot emissions Metric tons 0.04 0.02 0.01 0.04 0.05 Energy consumption Thousand gigajoules 33 37 39 36 36 Location: 3075-18 Shimasu, CO2 emissions (originating from fossil fuel) Metric tons 2,246 2,670 2,697 2,594 2,659 Itako-shi, Ibaraki, Japan Complaints Cases 0 0 0 0 0 Number of employees: 223 Total site area: 89,800㎡ Emissions and Transfer of Specific PRTR-Designated Substances in Fiscal 2019 Unit: metric tons ■ Tokuyama Plant Substance name Regulatory Amount of emissions Amount Sun·Tox's Tokuyama Plant manufactures biaxial-oriented polypropylene films, which are number Atmospheric Water Soil Subtotal transferred mainly used for food and beverage packaging. As part of its environmental initiatives, the Dichloromethane 186 0.6 0.0 0.0 0.6 2.0 plant is actively working to reduce per-unit energy consumption and increase recycling rates. Chloroform 127 0.4 0.0 0.0 0.4 76.8 Toluene 300 0.1 0.0 0.0 0.1 22.2 The plant further ensures health and safety management activities as an OSHMS-certified Acetonitrile 13 0.0 0.0 0.0 0.0 3.2 workplace. Under the slogan,“Strictly following safety procedures, making manufacturing 1,4-dioxane 150 0.0 0.0 0.0 0.0 0.0 enjoyable, and never compromising quality,”the plant continues to keep its facilities N,N-Dimethylacetamide 213 0.0 0.0 0.0 0.0 2.0 operating safely so it can be depended upon by the community, customers and employees. N,N-Dimethylformamide 232 0.0 0.0 0.0 0.0 10.5 Nobuhiko Nakayama Water-soluble salts of bromic acid 235 0.0 0.0 0.0 0.0 0.0 Plant Manager 2-Vinylpyridine 338 0.0 0.0 0.0 0.0 0.5 Performance Data Boron compounds 405 0.0 0.0 0.0 0.0 0.1 Unit FY2015 FY2016 FY2017 FY2018 FY2019 Methyl methacrylate 420 0.0 0.0 0.0 0.0 0.0 Waste generated Metric tons 74 84 68 86 88 Total 1.0 0.0 0.0 1.1 117.3 Waste sent to landfills Metric tons 1 1 1 1 1 All figures are numerical sums for Tokuyama Corporation and Water refers to public waters Tokuyama Dental Corporation Energy consumption Thousand gigajoules 471 463 422 368 349 Amount transferred indicates the sum of the quantity transferred to CO2 emissions Thousand metric tons 27 28 25 20 19 Substances are listed in descending order of emission levels; sewage systems and the quantity subject to intermediate treatment substances with no emissions are listed in order of the PRTR-designated substance emissions Metric tons 0.0 0.0 0.0 0.0 0.0 Total figures have been rounded to the first decimal place regulatory number Complaints Cases 0 0 0 0 0 Location: 7-7, Harumi-cho, Shunan-shi, Yamaguchi, Japan Number of employees: 141 Total site area: 24,100㎡ 52 TOKUYAMA CSR REPORT 2020 TOKUYAMA CSR REPORT 2020 53 Site Reports Company Outline Sun Arrow Kasei Established: February 1, 1999 Shareholder: Tokuyama Corporation (100%) Overview of Business Tokuyama provides products and services that help society and enrich Co., Ltd. Head office: 1-2 Harumi-cho, Shunan-shi, Yamaguchi, Japan Business activities: Manufacture and sale of polyvinyl chloride compounds Fields people’s lives in four businesses: Chemicals, Specialty Products, Cement, and Life & Amenity. ■ Tokuyama Plant Sun Arrow Kase's Tokuyama Plant manufactures and sells polyvinyl chloride compounds ChemicalsBusiness Specialty Products Business used for pipes, joints, and other items essential for upgrading infrastructure, as well as PVC Division Division windows, which are highly effective for saving energy. Practicing ISO 14001 environmental management and having all employees take part in safety and accident prevention efforts has helped the plant to maintain a record of zero accidents requiring work absences for all 21 years it has been operating. Since acquiring ISO 9001 certification in fiscal 2017, the plant has further improved customer satisfaction with a focus on the environment, safety and quality Yasuto Yasuzawa control, while strictly enforcing internal controls and carrying out Responsible Care activities. Plant Manager Soda Ash and Calcium Chloride Business Electronic Materials Business ▶ Soda ash ▶ Sodium bicarbonate ▶ High-purity polycrystalline silicon ▶ Metallic boron Performance Data ▶ Calcium Chloride ▶ Sodium silicate cullet Unit FY2015 FY2016 FY2017 FY2018 FY2019 ▶ High-purity trichlorosilane Chlor-Alkali and Vinyl Chloride Business Power consumption Thousand kilowatt hours 2,659 2,490 2,533 2,631 2,633 Waste plastic produced Metric tons 141 135 128 171 152 Fumed Silica Business Waste plastic effectively used Metric tons 141 135 128 171 152 ▶ Caustic soda ▶ Hydrochloric acid ▶ Fumed silica ▶ High-purity fused spherical silica ▶ Sodium hypochlorite Waste sent to landfills offsite for disposal Metric tons 6 0 0 0 0 Steam usage Metric tons 240 240 240 240 240 ▶ Methylene chloride Thermal Management Material Business Industrial water consumption Thousand metric tons 65 65 65 65 65 Location: 1-2 Harumi-cho, Shunan-shi, ▶ Propylene oxide (PO) ▶H igh-purity Aluminum Nitride (AlN) Powder Yamaguchi, Japan ▶ Polyvinyl chloride (PVC) and Granules Number of employees: 28 Total site area: 3,280㎡ New Organic Chemicals Business IC Chemicals Business ▶ Isopropyl alcohol (IPA) ▶ High-purity chemicals for electronics manufacturing Tokuyama Established: April 2, 2001 ▶ Positive-type photoresist developer Shareholders: Tokuyama Corporation (50%), Prime Polymer Co., Ltd. (50%) Polypropylene Head office: 1-1 Harumi-cho, Shunan-shi, Yamaguchi, Japan Co., Ltd. Business activities: Manufacture and sale of polypropylene resin and ﬂexible polypropylene resin Cement Business Life & Amenity Business Division Division ■ Tokuyama Plant Tokuyama Polypropylene's Tokuyama Plant conducts risk assessments of processes, facilities, and operations and takes measures to identify near-miss situations and points of concern, in order to enhance the plant's safety culture. The result has been a perfect accidentand disaster-free record for 44 years since the time it was operated as Tokuyama's polypropylene Cement Business MA Business film business. In fiscal 2020, the plant continues to pursue Responsible Care activities with the ▶ Portland cement ▶ Bulk pharmaceutical ingredients/intermediates goals of achieving its accidentand disaster-free record, reducing its environmental impact, and ▶ Blast furnace slag cement eliminating customer complaints related to quality. TS Business Yuichi Taguchi ▶ Moderate-heat Portland Cement ▶ Plastic lens-related materials Plant Manager ▶ Cement-based soil stabilizer Performance Data ▶ Ready-mixed concrete NF Business Unit FY2015 FY2016 FY2017 FY2018 FY2019 ▶ Construction and civil engineering materials ▶ Microporous film Industrial water consumption Thousand metric tons 370 333 378 343 352 Waste generated Metric tons 35 77 35 66 40 Recycling and Environment Business Group Companies Waste sent to landfills Metric tons 0 1.8* 0 1.6* 0 ▶ Processing of waste into cement raw material ▶ Polyolefin film ▶ PVC window Unit energy consumption index (fiscal 2002=100) % 71 73 69 70 78  Recycling ▶ of waste gypsum boards ▶ Dental materials ＊ Year with periodic maintenance ▶ Utilization of waste plastic for fuel ▶ Medical diagnosis systems Location: 1-1 Harumi-cho, Shunan-shi, ▶ Ion exchange membranes and systems Yamaguchi, Japan ▶ Plastics processing Number of employees: 63 Total site area: 70,997㎡ 54 TOKUYAMA CSR REPORT 2020 TOKUYAMA CSR REPORT 2020 55 Third-Party Review Company Outline CSR Initiatives Using Materiality Assessments In March 2019, Tokuyama identified its material A Review of Tokuyama’s issues and this year has disclosed its progress in CSR Report achieving targets. Having achieved many of the Financial Implementing the Medium-Term Management Plan (April 2016–March 2021) items, the company considered its next steps and Eriko Nashioka Highlights Under its corporate vision to build a new foundation, established in May 2016, Tokuyama drew up identified environmental issues as a material issue, Representative Director, Institute for Environmental a five-year medium-term management plan starting from fiscal 2016 that seeks to: (1) change the Management Accounting, Certified Public subsequently launching the CO₂ Project Group in organizational culture; (2) rebuild business strategies; (3) strengthen Group management; and (4) Accountant and Certified Tax Accountant, and part-time lecturer in environmental accounting January 2020. Tokuyama also deserves praise for improve the Company’s financial position. Now, a fifth point has been added to the medium-term and environmental auditing for the Faculty of taking steps to adhere to the recommendations Commerce, Doshisha University management plan: (5) pursue initiatives to address the UN Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs). of the Task Force on Climate-related Financial The aim is to help solve social issues. Disclosures (TCFD),* and taking action on the issue of coal-fired power plants. From a Century in Business, into a New Era Tokuyama is pursuing maintenance targets for With the global COVID-19 pandemic, 2020 is many of its current material issues, which leaves Net Sales and Operating Income Fiscal 2019 Sales by Business Segment shaping up to be a major turning point in history. In relatively few items where it has made numerical (Unit: billion yen) addition to changing how we work and what we do, progress. In its next review, I hope that Tokuyama Net Sales Operating Income Others it is changing our views of the connections between will add more items that are connected to its value (Billion Yen) 65.2(18.3%） Chemicals people, and of society and culture. The level of creation model, and visually quantify the value it is 93.7(26.3%） 350 324.6 316 300 307.1 299.1 308 310 interest in the SDGs has risen, and we have a clearer newly creating. (Billion Yen) Life & Amenity Total idea of what needs to be done and the issues that 250 39.7 41.2 40 56.3(15.8%） 316.0* Information Disclosure and Communication 200 35.2 34.2 need to be resolved. Tokuyama has already started 28.0 150 23.1 30 Specialty Products tackling these issues. This report embraces the parThis report gives a detailed description of the 20 54.4(15.2%） adigm of the SDGs and describes the social issues Shin-Taketori Monogatari event and contains a 100 Cement 50 10 87.2(24.4%） that Tokuyama is addressing using its technologies dialogue with individuals involved in the event. 0 0  ote: Segment sales results N and innovations, and the value it is supplying to sociThe report and dialogue manages to convey how 2015 2016 2017 2018 2019 2020 (FY) (Target) include inter-segment sales ety. This suggests that we can depend on Tokuyama Tokuyama works with and contributes to the to meet the demands of society. community, focusing on the local issue of invasive At the same time, Tokuyama has been meeting bamboo. Going forward, Tokuyama should engage social expectations throughout its 100-year history, in a dialogue with remote stakeholders such as long before the SDGs were born. This commitment investors and students, as well as with employees Global Tokuyama has expanded globally, with factories and sales branches now established in justifies its existence as a corporation. I hope that close to home. The company should also actively Network eight countries and regions around the world, primarily in Asia. Tokuyama will succeed in making more people disseminate information for that purpose. aware of its initiatives and gain more admirers. *TCFD is an initiative launched by the Financial Stability Board to recommend information disclosure of the strategic and financial impact of climate change risks and opportunities. Tokuyama Europe GmbH Tokuyama Dental Deutschland GmbH Response to further disseminate information in an effort to Tokuyama (Shanghai) Co., Ltd. Hantok Chemicals Co., Ltd. Third-Party Review better communicate Tokuyama’s activities to even Tokuyama Korea Co., Ltd. Tokuyama Trading (Shanghai) Co., Ltd. more stakeholders. Tokuyama Dental Italy Srl Tokuyama America Inc. Kazuo Matsuya With regard to material issues, the KPIs for this Shanghai Tokuyama Plastics Co., Ltd. Executive Officer General Manager, fiscal year indicate that we have achieved nearly all Tokuyama Chemicals Tokuyama Dental America Inc. Corporate Social Responsibility Division the targets. We will endeavor to clarify where we (Zhejiang) Co., Ltd. Taiwan Tokuyama Corporation Tokuyama Corp. Taiwan Research Laboratory stand in terms of achieving the targets, and rapidly 2020 is indeed turning out to be an inflection point execute PDCA cycles. Tokuyama Asia Paciﬁc Pte. Ltd. due to the COVID-19 pandemic, which requires We will begin implementing a new medium-term Tokuyama Electronic Chemicals Pte. Ltd. that we change our processes for taking action on management plan in 2021. In addition to further socially responsible management. While we have enhancing our socially responsible management, Tokuyama Nouvelle Calédonie S.A. now identified the SDGs Tokuyama will focus on, we will clearly convey the future vision for our ■ Manufacturing we have always addressed social issues across our businesses with an emphasis on the SDGs and ESG. ▲ R&D various businesses. This commitment is ingrained Furthermore, the entire Tokuyama Group will work ● Sales in our corporate culture and is something that together to accelerate its initiatives to address the we will carefully perpetuate. Additionally, we will chief material issue of reducing CO₂ emissions. 56 TOKUYAMA CSR REPORT 2020 TOKUYAMA CSR REPORT 2020 57 Corporate Data Editorial Policy ■The CSR Report 2020 has been compiled for the Company name: Tokuyama Corporation purpose of providing stakeholders with clearly presented information on the Tokuyama Group’s Location: Tokyo Head Office CSR initiatives and overall business activities. FRONT PLACE AKIHABARA, 7-5, Sotokanda 1-chome, The PDF edition, available at the website below, Chiyoda-ku, Tokyo 101-8618, Japan includes Site Reports which could not be included Tel: +81-3-5207-2500 Fax: +81-3-5207-2580 in the print edition due to space limitations. Tokuyama Factory https://www.tokuyama.co.jp/eng/csr/ 1-1, Mikage-cho, Shunan-shi, Yamaguchi 745-8648, Japan (Registered address) Tel: +81-834-34-2000 Fax: +81-834-33-3790 Other facilities in Japan ■Eriko Nashioka of the Institute for Environmental Kashima Factory, Tsukuba Research Laboratory, Management Accounting was invited to offer a Osaka Office, Takamatsu Branch, Hiroshima Branch, third-party opinion on this report. Fukuoka Branch, Sendai Branch, Shunan Sales Branch ■The CSR Report 2020 has been produced based President: Hiroshi Yokota on the Environmental Reporting Guidelines Established: February 16, 1918 (fiscal 2018 edition) published by the Ministry of the Environment of Japan and GRI standard Capital: 10 billion yen (As of March 31, 2020) published by Stichting Grobal Reporting Initiative. Number of 5,679 (consolidated basis; including 540 working overseas); employees: 2,063 (non-consolidated basis)(As of March 31, 2020) Scope of the Report Number Consolidated subsidiaries 54 of group companies: Equity-method affiliates 10 Period covered: （As of April 1, 2020） Performance data is from fiscal 2019 (April 1, 2019 to March 31, 2020); certain activities carried out in Main businesses: Manufacture and sale of the following chemicals fiscal 2020 are also covered. and products Companies covered: Chemicals: Soda ash, chlor-alkali, vinyl chloride and Tokuyama Group; environment-related data is new organic chemicals for the Company’s Tokuyama Factory, Tsukuba Specialty Products: Polycrystalline silicon, fumed silica, Research Laboratory and Kashima Factory; high-purity chemicals for electronics manufacturing and some performance data includes the sum of the aluminum nitride data from 23 manufacturing subsidiaries of the Cement: Cement, recycling Tokuyama Group in Japan. and environment-related business Areas covered: Life & Amenity: Bulk pharmaceutical ingredients, Activities reported on were mainly carried out plastic lens-related materials, dental materials, in Japan; however, some activities include group medical diagnosis systems, ion exchange membranes, subsidiaries outside Japan. microporous films, polyolefin films, PVC windows Date of issue: Securities code: 4043 (First Section of the Tokyo Stock Exchange) September 30, 2020 Next issue (tentative): September 2021 (previous issue was in September 2019) 58 TOKUYAMA CSR REPORT 2020
