Resilience in Diversity ANNUAL AND SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2019-2020 ABOUT THIS REPORT CONTENTS This report summarises the business and sustainability performance for Crescent Enterprises, ABOUT THIS REPORT 1 as well as its operations and investments from 1 January 2019 to 31 December 2019. It About Crescent Enterprises 2 also includes select business updates up until its publication date. The report combines Operations and investments 4 financial and non-financial–social, governance, and environmental–information across Q&A with the Chief Executive Officer 6 Crescent Enterprises’ four platforms: CE-Operates, CE-Invests, CE-Ventures, and CE-Creates. OUR APPROACH 8 Unless specified otherwise, all dollar figures refer to US dollars. Strategic objectives  8 Responsible investing 9 Sustainability at Crescent Enterprises 10 OUR PLATFORMS 12 2019-20 reporting framework This report highlights Crescent Enterprises’ Forward-looking statements actions and contributions to the SDGs and Performance highlights 12 The United Nations Sustainable This report contains not only past and has been prepared in accordance with the CE-Operates14 Development Goals (SDGs) set out a present facts about Crescent Enterprises, but Global Reporting Initiative (GRI) Standards: CE-Invests22 strategic agenda for governments and also forward-looking statements regarding Core option. The comprehensive GRI index CE-Ventures32 organisations to help address the world’s business strategies, plans, prospects, can be found at the end of this report. CE-Creates42 most urgent issues and transition to a management policies, etc. more sustainable and inclusive society. Crescent Enterprises has been a signatory Businesses are increasingly using the Forward-looking statements can be identified CORPORATE GOVERNANCE 50 to the United Nations Global Compact SDGs as a lens to understand their own by words such as ‘believes’, ‘estimates’, (UNGC) since 2013. This report serves as Governance framework 51 contribution to such a transition, and ‘expects’, ‘intends’, ‘plans’, ‘outlook’, or similar Crescent Enterprises’ sixth annual Our commitment to business ethics 56 develop viable solutions accordingly. words. These statements are assumptions communication on progress regarding the or estimations based on the information implementation of the ten UNGC principles. NURTURING TALENT 58 Crescent Enterprises and its platforms are available at the time of preparation of this committed to embedding the SDGs into report, and are subject to change based Our diverse and inclusive workforce 59 their operations and reporting processes. on irrepressible factors, such as general People strategy 60 The company identified the linkage of economic conditions, foreign exchange SDGs with its business strategies through fluctuations, competitive product and pricing CORPORATE CITIZENSHIP 62 guidance from SDG Compass¹. As per pressures, and regulatory developments. the SDG compass, we have created an ENVIRONMENTAL STEWARDSHIP 70 SDG framework comprising material, or We value your feedback relevant, SDGs, priority impact areas, and Crescent Enterprises welcomes your SDG FRAMEWORK 74 associated key performance indicators (KPIs). We have also initiated the process of feedback on its business performance at ce@crescent.ae and encourages you to share GRI CONTENT INDEX 79 identifying goals and targets, which we aim to finalise by the next reporting cycle. The any comments, inquiries, or suggestions SDG framework for the four platforms can you may have on its sustainability journey at be found at the end of this report. cesustainability@crescent.ae. 1. S  DG Compass a tool developed by the World Business Council for Sustainable Development (WBCSD), UN Global Compact (UNGC) and Global Reporting Initiative (GRI) Crescent Enterprises Annual and Sustainability Report 2019-2020 1 ABOUT CRESCENT Our platforms ENTERPRISES Crescent The company works globally through four distinct platforms: CE-Operates, CE-Invests, CE-Ventures, and CE-Creates, across various sectors including ports CE-Operates, Crescent Enterprises’ operating platform, oversees the CE-Invests, Crescent Enterprises’ strategic investments platform, maintains Enterprises is and logistics, power and engineering, food and beverage; and in verticals such company’s subsidiaries and affiliates in ports and logistics and in power a balanced portfolio of late-stage investments across alternative asset as private equity, corporate venture capital, and business incubation. Crescent a diversified Enterprises’ business interests span 39 subsidiaries, affiliates, and investments in and engineering. classes, such as private equity, and other structured investments. global business, 15 countries. The company employs over 2,600 people, including those working at its subsidiaries. headquartered in Crescent Enterprises is a subsidiary of Crescent Group, a progressive, familythe United Arab owned business that has contributed to shaping the economic landscape of the Middle East and North Africa for nearly half a century. Crescent Group's other Emirates (UAE). subsidiary, Crescent Petroleum, is the first and largest privately owned upstream oil and gas company in the Middle East. CE-Ventures, Crescent Enterprises’ CE-Creates, Crescent Enterprises’ corporate venture capital platform, internal business incubation platform, makes strategic investments in earlydevelops early-stage concepts into to late-stage high-growth companies socially responsible, economically and select venture funds globally. viable, and scalable businesses. Our global footprint 15 39 2,600+ UK countries subsidiaries, employees Turkey affiliates, and Jersey China investments USA Pakistan Lebanon Iraq Palestine Egypt 58,000+ 12 Saudi Arabia India community members positively SDGs contributed to by impacted through corporate business strategy, operations, UAE citizenship programmes and investments Singapore Sri Lanka CE-Operates CE-Invests CE-Ventures CE-Creates Crescent Enterprises Annual and Sustainability Report 2019-2020 3 OPERATIONS AND INVESTMENTS Founded: 2010 Industry: PreNav Founded: 2013 Industry: Prime Medicine A next-generation Founded: 2019 Industry: gene-engineering start-up Media, Drones Biotechnology Crescent Enterprises has operations and investments across numerous sectors and geographies, making Pinterest Maker of precision navigation technology Country: Country: Visual discovery engine that system for drones used for it a truly diversified global business. Country: infrastructure inspection USA USA currently inspires over 335 USA purposes Ownership: Ownership: million users CE-Operates CE-Invests CE-Ventures CE-Creates Ownership: Minority Minority Minority Founded: Founded: Founded: Founded: Founded: Founded: 1976 2008 2003 2015 2017 2012 Industry: Industry: Industry: TARA Industry: Industry: Trifacta Industry: Ports Momentum Logistics Logistics Power and Artificial Logistics Enterprise – Gulftainer Uruk Engineering & Intelligent product builder Transcorp The global leader in data Country: Country: engineering intelligence Country: Data Analytics Leading integrated third-party and manager of complete One of the UAE’s most efficient, preparation technology used World’s largest privately owned, UAE UAE Contracting Country: Country: UAE Country: logistics service provider software builds temperature-controlled by more than 50,000 Data independent port management Full-service power generation, Ownership: offering a complete suite of Ownership: UAE USA logistics and last-mile Ownership: Wranglers across 12,000 USA company, investing in, engineering, procurement, and 50% supply chain infrastructure 50% Ownership: Ownership: distribution service providers Significant companies Ownership: developing and operating 16 construction contractor and management solutions Significant minority Minority minority Minority facilities in 5 countries Founded: Founded: Vintage: Founded: Founded: Founded: 1983 2007 2014* 2012 2010 2017 Gama Aviation Plc Industry: Industry: Industry: Industry: Industry: Industry: Vezeeta Vicarious Volt Lines One of the world’s largest Business Growthgate Capital Private equity Samena Limestone Private equity Leading digital healthcare Medical technology Artificial Transportation business aviation service aviation Developer of AI software that intelligence Subscription-based technology Investor focused on the Middle Country: Holdings Country: booking platform and Country: transportation service for providers managing over Country: East and North Africa (MENA) UAE UAE Egypt ‘thinks and learns like a human’ Country: Country: Private investment fund managing practice management corporate users in Turkey 50 aircraft across 40 locations UK region’s mid-market segment USA Turkey Ownership: substantial equity stake in Ownership: software in the MENA region Ownership: on 4 continents with circa $1.6 billion in assets Ownership: Shareholder RAK Ceramics PJSC, one of the Shareholder Minority Ownership: Ownership: under monitoring Minority largest ceramics producers in the world Minority Minority Vintage: Vintage: Vintage: Founded: Vintage: Vintage: 2011* 2010* 2014* 2017 2020* 2016* H E A LT H C A R E Industry: Industry: Industry: XCath, Inc. Industry: Industry: Industry: Siraj TVM Capital FIM-IBC Real BOV Capital Private equity Private equity Structured Medical technology B Capital Venture capital Venture capital Investment firm spurring job Healthcare Estate Fund investments Medical device developer of Investment fund focused on Country: Country: life-saving steerable robotic Country: Fund targeting growth and Country: Country: creation and economic growth Partnership that funds real helping Sri Lankan start-ups Palestine Globally active healthcare UAE Country: micro-catheters USA scale stage companies, mostly USA/Singapore Sri Lanka across 7 sectors in Palestine estate investments in the capture regional and global Ownership: investment specialist focused Ownership: UAE Ownership: in Asia, USA, and Europe Ownership: Ownership: on emerging markets MENA region opportunities Limited partner Limited partner Ownership: Significant minority Limited partner Limited partner Limited partner Founded: Founded: Founded: Vintage: Vintage: Vintage: 2013 2017 2012 2016* 2019* 2017* Anomali Industry: ColurisMX, Inc. Industry: Industry: ICONIQ Capital Industry: Industry: Industry: Didi Chuxing Jungle Ventures Threat intelligence platform Cybersecurity Medical technology Ride sharing Privately held direct Venture capital Venture capital Venture capital Medical device developer World’s leading mobile Rising Tide for early detection and Country: Country: Country: investment manager focused Country: Investment fund that helps Country: Country: of next-generation transportation platform, with identification of cyber threats USA USA China on technology USA build Asian technology Singapore Funder of early-stage software USA microsurgical robotic devices 550 million users in enterprise networks leaders and biotech ventures Ownership: Ownership: Ownership: Ownership: Ownership: Ownership: Minority Significant Minority Limited partner Limited partner Limited partner minority Founded: Founded: Founded: Vintage: Founded: Founded: 2004 2015 2011 2014* 2017 2018 EdCast Industry: Industry: Industry: Industry: Industry: Industry: Furlenco Wamda Capital Kava & Chai ION Educational Food technology E-commerce Venture capital Food and beverage Transportation AI-powered knowledge technology FreshtoHome Online furniture rental platform Sector-agnostic venture capital Country: Homegrown specialty Sustainable transport company cloud for unified Country: Country: Country: driving on-demand availability Country: E-commerce venture for fresh, catering to urban professionals firm focused on technology coffeehouse offering unique discovery, knowledge Country: India India UAE UAE in multi-modal, inter-urban UAE chemical-free seafood and companies in the MENA region cultural experiences management, and USA Ownership: Ownership: Ownership: Ownership: transport networks Ownership: meat, including poultry and Turkey personalised learning Ownership: Minority Minority Limited partner 100% 50% joint venture Minority Founded: Founded: Founded: Founded: Founded: 2017 2019 2019 2019 Private beta phase Industry: Industry: MPL Industry: Industry: Industry: Food technology Micro-mobility Online gaming Shamal Industrial Food and Kitopi Online gaming platform Developer of next-generation, clothing BreakBread beverage Country: Marti Technologies Country: offering a plethora of games Country: Cloud kitchen network that specialised industrial clothing A digital platform, marketplace, UAE Turkey and quizzes India Country: Country: cooks and delivers on behalf Leading micro-mobility and hub for curated homeOwnership: Ownership: Ownership: UAE UAE of food brands service provider in Turkey based food experiences Minority Minority Minority Ownership: Ownership: 100% 100% Crescent Enterprises Annual and Sustainability Report 2019-2020 (*Vintage years are those of the funds that Crescent Enterprises is invested in.) 5 Q&A WITH BADR JAFAR Crescent Enterprises has long been embedding sustainability What is your outlook for 2020 in light of COVID-19 and how has CHIEF EXECUTIVE OFFICER in its operations. How did this practice evolve in 2019 and the pandemic impacted your vision and global operations across what are the key initiatives implemented in line with your the portfolio? commitment to the UN Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs)? The disruptions caused by COVID-19 have helped us gain new Businesses cannot achieve sustainable success in a world stricken insights and perspectives that will allow us to emerge more by fundamental issues such as poverty, inequality, and climate resilient and better prepared to face future challenges of such a change. The SDGs provide a helpful framework for organisations global scale. committed to having a positive impact on the communities in Our diversified portfolio has experienced a mixed impact as a which they operate around the world. At Crescent Enterprises, result of the pandemic. On one hand, lockdown restrictions have we believe the contribution of the international private sector is disrupted global supply chains, leading to slower growth in some essential to accelerate the achievement of the SDGs. of our portfolio companies. However, our ports and logistics As a responsible enterprise, we have woven sustainability into subsidiaries and portfolio companies have been relatively resilient our operational fabric. We gauge our business performance considering the unprecedented scale of disruption. They have based not only on financial results, but also on our contributions also been able to support local and international responses to the to environmental, social, and governance objectives. As shown pandemic, enabling the timely delivery of life-saving supplies. throughout this report, our business strategy, operations, and On the other hand, private equity and venture capital markets investments currently contribute to 12 individual SDGs, and we have been challenged with tightening credit and investment flow, are proud to report on our performance in support of these declining asset values, and longer holding periods. Since the specific goals. start of the pandemic, many investors have been adjusting their Our corporate citizenship strategy, built on four priority investment approach, triaging their existing portfolio as a priority areas—entrepreneurship and employability, arts and culture, before venturing into new opportunities. That said, we believe environment, and corporate governance—aims to foster the next 12-24 months will be an opportune time for investments cohesive communities around our operations. In 2019 alone, our in companies who have shown resilience and emerged leaner corporate citizenship partnerships and initiatives have reached and stronger, with more sustainable business models. Similarly, approximately 60,000 community members, including 22,000 we have been working closely with our portfolio companies to women and more than 1,200 students and entrepreneurs. help them identify opportunities that reduce costs and ensure their own business continuity, and we remain committed to To promote the conservation of scarce resources and deploying new capital in high-growth companies with robust environmental sustainability, we have also taken additional business models and environmental, social, and governance (ESG) measures in the last year to further reduce our energy and standards. water consumption at our headquarters in Sharjah. In addition to encouraging our staff to become recycling ambassadors, we As we navigate these unprecedented times, we remain determined Global growth in 2019 recorded its weakest pace since the 2008 The four platforms under Crescent Enterprises represent the recently committed to abolishing the use of single-use plastics. to bolster the resilience of our operations and maintain our financial crisis. What were Crescent Enterprises’ performance cornerstone of your diversification strategy. What are the key commitment to sustainability across all aspects of our business. highlights of 2019 in light of such economic challenges? developments across these platforms? Thanks to our greatest asset, our employees, we will keep working Despite a decelerating global economy, Crescent Enterprises Our four platforms have continued to deliver on their respective to realise new investment opportunities across our platforms that registered a robust performance in 2019, with our diversified strategies during 2019. Gulftainer, our ports subsidiary under support the growth of a purpose-driven economy. The year 2020 marks the start of a challenging market portfolio encompassing multiple industries and geographies CE-Operates, commenced an ambitious programme of longenvironment. What focus areas and sectors are central to I am grateful to all of our employees, subsidiaries, affiliates, enabling us to build resilience and maintain our growth trajectory. term investment in the Port of Wilmington in the US. We expect strengthening Crescent Enterprises’ business performance in portfolio companies, and partners, whose vision and talent have this to usher in a period of sustained socioeconomic growth in We invested $80 million during the year to expand the operations 2020 and beyond? been integral to our sustainable growth from the very beginning. Wilmington and the wider region, and we remain committed to of our portfolio companies, deploying capital and growing As we continue to focus on high-impact investments that We look forward to building further on these achievements in the developing and enhancing the infrastructure of the port. our portfolio to a total of 39 companies and investments. complement our existing portfolio, Crescent Enterprises remains years to come. Consequently, our total assets grew to over $1.3 billion and we Our holdings under CE-Invests are maintaining their growth by well-positioned to benefit from the Fourth Industrial Revolution by saw revenues increase 9% to reach $296 million. capitalising on efficiencies and expanding into new geographies. investing in promising sectors and related verticals of the global With a clear focus on operational discipline, these assets continue economy. Our capital allocation across varied geographies, sectors, and to improve their ‘exit readiness’. verticals reduces our exposure to any single asset class or market. As a family-run business, we are committed to creating an Our portfolio diversification remains a key pillar of our strategy, CE-Ventures has continued its strategy of investment in highempowering, technology-enabled, and human-centric business one that is embedded in our vision, enabling us to achieve longgrowth companies and venture capital funds across MENA, the environment. Our commitment to diversity and inclusion allows us term performance while minimising risks. US, and Asia. To date, $112.7 million has been deployed across to continuously adapt to changing market trends and channel our various sectors. Companies we have invested in increased their efforts to create long-term value for our stakeholders. By strengthening and expanding our portfolio of subsidiaries, revenue by as much as 90% in 2019, and have raised $370 million affiliates, and investments, we continue to pursue growth and in follow-on funding since our initial investments. In addition to In tandem with expanding and diversifying our portfolio, we aim ensure balance and stability in performance over the long term. capital, we also provide our partners with strategic and operational to intensify our corporate citizenship by advocating for better guidance to catalyse their expansion and growth, with the value of corporate governance practices, supporting local communities, our portfolio increasing by 40% compared to 2018. Our investment and taking additional steps to safeguard the environment. in venture capital funds helps us further diversify our portfolio by gaining exposure to 131 additional companies. In 2019, our purpose-driven incubator, CE-Creates, accelerated the development of Shamal, a manufacturer of heavy-duty sustainable workwear, while our sustainable mobility company, ION, focused on expanding within the UAE and investing in electric vehicle charging stations and autonomous driving. Crescent Enterprises Annual and Sustainability Report 2019-2020 7 OUR APPROACH In conversation with Ravi Kumar, Executive Director and Chair of the Sustainability STRATEGIC OBJECTIVES Committee, Crescent Enterprises Today’s rapidly changing world is experiencing structural shifts and global megatrends such as evolving demographics, technological breakthroughs, and unprecedented public health challenges, which are having a transformative impact on the global economy, businesses, and society. These changing conditions favour businesses that are nimble and possess a What are your views on integrating How does Crescent Enterprises What are some of the challenges you resilient business plan with clear organisational goals and sustainable targets. social purpose into businesses and demonstrate its commitment to faced while defining your alignment investments, especially in the current the SDGs? with the SDGs? state of affairs? We understand the implications of the evolving business landscape for our vision of building a diversified group of Our planet is facing unprecedented The operations and investments of companies and we aim to address them throughout our decision-making process—from operational agreements and new Worldwide, there has been a paradigm developmental challenges, from Crescent Enterprises span a multitude investments, to start-up development initiatives, and community engagement. A shared commitment to sustainability, shift in investment strategies whereby social inequalities to environmental of sectors and geographies, creating investors are becoming more socially degradation. The SDGs were designed a scenario of variable SDG alignment sound corporate governance principles, and responsible business practices fortify the foundation of the operating and conscious and appreciating the to inspire individuals, organisations, based on our subsidiary, portfolio investment strategies of Crescent Enterprises. value of investing in companies that and governments to pursue growth in a company, or investment. We adopted integrate environmental, social, socially and environmentally responsible a value-chain approach enabling us and governance (ESG) factors in manner. At Crescent Enterprises, we do to consider the impact beyond the the way they do business. We at not only view our contribution to the respective entity’s operational boundary. Crescent Enterprises are dedicated global sustainable goals as a key driver While conducting the analysis, we also Vision and value framework to supporting the purpose-driven of our business, but we also appreciate ensured that the unique perspectives economy. As such, the incorporation the growing role of the private sector due to different geographies and of ESG factors is key to assessing in supporting governments to achieve regional priorities are considered. Enabling ethical business We aspire to build a diversified investment-worthiness and sustaining the SDGs. This year, we determined For example, gender equality and group of companies that the competitive advantage of our the particular SDGs that each of our women’s empowerment are of utmost Enabling a stronger society transcends geographic and growing portfolio of investments. As platforms will be contributing to, and we importance in the MENA region and Enabling talent cultural borders while striving the COVID-19 pandemic and global are working on defining our respective are reflected in several of our portfolio for inclusive leadership, global shutdown have affected all businesses targets for each. This helps us, as a companies’ strategies and initiatives. Enabling stewardship of the planet competitiveness, and shared in various ways, we further realise the responsible corporate citizen, define Open and constructive engagement value for all our stakeholders. importance of responsible business our contribution to the global goals with internal and external stakeholders strategies that aim to generate in a tangible manner, leading to the was also crucial in understanding the The four pillars of our resilient, lasting, and shared value for refinement of our long-term sustainability nuances and prioritising our alignment sustainability framework form all stakeholders. strategy. with the SDGs. the basis of our commitments to We are guided by our sustainable development. core values focused on It also guides us in the diversity and inclusion, development of associated entrepreneurship, policies and procedures. Vision responsibility, and integrity. Responsible investing We believe in cultivating robust, lasting Our commitment to sustainability • Encouraging our four platforms, partnerships with and maximising longextends to our portfolio ownership subsidiaries, affiliates, and investments Values term value creation for our stakeholders. and management practices. We weigh to support community activities. A long-term investment We maintain an open, collaborative both ESG criteria and financial risks and • Ensuring constant development of HR and operating strategy dialogue with our partner companies returns throughout the entire investment St policies and practices that empower all ra ts teg en that embraces corporate and ventures to help us collectively process, from the identification of employees and create objective criteria In y and commitm governance, inclusive ter es deliver optimal impact. Through our new opportunities to the closing and to measure their competence and nal ess growth, and responsible policies and proc participation on their respective Boards subsequent management of our performance. business practices. and select committees, we monitor our subsidiaries, affiliates, and investments. • Reducing the environmental impact of partners’ progress and performance Our ESG principles and parameters our company’s activities by promoting to provide them with strategic and focus on the following: reduction of water and energy operational guidance, market and consumption, waste recycling, and financial intelligence, and promote best•E nsuring ESG considerations are minimal use of paper. Values, strategies, and in-class corporate governance standards. incorporated into our investment commitments are incorporated evaluation and decision-making • Promoting the adoption and into everyday practices through The five-step evaluation process we processes, active ownership practices, dissemination of ESG principles among follow to examine every investment and ongoing reporting activities. subsidiaries, affiliates, and investments. policies and procedures. opportunity underpins our responsible •T aking a balanced view of the broad investment strategy. We assess the ESG consideration and risks. business plan and growth strategy of the opportunity to identify both the •C onsidering our ethical obligations in potential value creation benefits and the all business conduct, including antiunderlying risks it presents, as well as its money laundering, anti-corruption, ESG fit. and anti-bribery. Crescent Enterprises Annual and Sustainability Report 2019-2020 9 Investment evaluation process Adopting the Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs) As a responsible company, we believe the private Steps to assess SDG linkages of the operations and Initial Preliminary Due Investment Closing sector has a pivotal role to play in supporting the investments of Crescent Enterprises screening evaluation diligence decision global and regional ambitions laid down by the SDGs. As 2020 ushers in the ‘Decade of Action’ for the delivery of Goals by 2030, Crescent Enterprises Understand the risks and opportunities endeavours to help solve global challenges through across the value chain investment and collaboration by establishing linkages based on benchmarking • Conduct an initial • Perform preliminary  onduct multiple •C •P  resent a Final •E  xecute legal between the SDGs and its overarching business, as and consultation with screening of the industry and market streams of due Investment documentation, stakeholders. well as the portfolio companies and investments of opportunity against research. diligence (commercial, Memorandum and drawdown, and its four platforms. We have incorporated feedback 1 pre-defined criteria financial, legal, and Post-Execution formal closing. • Analyse company’s from multi-stakeholder engagements to redefine the Align the for assessment. ESG assessment) and Memorandum to the corporate business plan and key risks and opportunities as well as the positive Define impact develop valuation Executive Board for reporting to growth strategy and negative impact areas associated with the SDGs and share 4 2 areas (positive model. approval. and negative). and assess the progress with value chains of our operations and those of our stakeholders. management team. •S  eek Investment companies, which enables us to better understand 3 Committee approval • Conduct preliminary on investment our contributions to the SDGs and prioritise our ESG screening efforts. This year, we have developed provisional SDG Link the identified terms and key to ensure the frameworks for our four platforms. These frameworks impact areas with principles (legal and relevant SDGs, develop opportunity complies include the material SDGs for each platform, impact commercial). performance indicators with ESG Policy. and concrete targets. areas, and associated KPIs. We are in the process of • Summary of this identifying and setting goals and targets that we aim information is to finalise by the next reporting cycle. developed into an Opportunity Memorandum. The following table represents a snapshot of the contribution to the SDGs from the operations and investments of Crescent Enterprises. Discussions on the platform level are included in the respective sections of this report. Crescent Enterprises (Corporate level) CE-Operates CE-Invests CE-Ventures CE-Creates Good health and well-being Sustainability at Crescent Enterprises Quality education The intrinsic connection between the Gender equality economy, society, and environment requires organisations to transition Affordable and clean energy to a holistic approach that integrates Decent work and economic growth sustainability into their business model. Industry, innovation, and infrastructure Crescent Enterprises believes that operating in a socially and environmentally Reduced inequalities responsible manner is not just an ethical Sustainable cities and communities obligation—it also makes business sense. We recognise that the ‘profit’ of the Responsible consumption and production company and the ‘purpose’ of its existence Climate change are inseparable, and we have integrated sustainability across three levels: Peace, justice, and strong institutions • In our operations – by running a Partnerships for the goals responsible, efficient, and profitable business; Enhancing reporting Evolution of Crescent Enterprises’ corporate reporting journey • In our investment decisions – by strengthening the integration of ESG A sustainability agenda should be supported by relevant targets and an 2013 2015 2016 2018 2019 2030 principles and parameters into our investment processes; and, accountability mechanism to reach its full potential. We are working on Contribute to • With our stakeholders – by creating defining concrete sustainability targets Moving towards the realisation long-term value for our stakeholders, aligned with the prioritised SDGs and SDG-based of SDGs through Based on GRI G4 including the communities around reporting. internal and frameworks for our operations and Sustainability Based on GRI GRI referenced external initiatives our areas of operations and society investments. Crescent Enterprises Reporting Standards for sustainability while aligning at large. believes that this ongoing focus on the Guidelines performance with national SDGs and the creation of tracking metrics indicators and international will enhance its ability to contribute to benchmarks the realisation of the Global Goals during the ‘Decade of Action’ leading to 2030. Crescent Enterprises Annual and Sustainability Report 2019-2020 11 OUR PLATFORMS Consequently, the year 2019 turned out to be a good year for Crescent CE-Invests witnessed steady performance across its private equity CE-Creates has successfully launched its third business, Shamal, a startEnterprises relative to the pace holdings, which expanded their up focused on developing the next of economic development. The operations, secured new contracts, and generation of specialised industrial PERFORMANCE HIGHLIGHTS company’s focus areas revolved around strengthening its subsidiaries’ positions, optimising resources across penetrated new markets while remaining focused on their ESG parameters. For instance, Gama Aviation expanded its clothing. Leveraging the latest technology and innovation, Shamal’s range of workwear is carefully executed its portfolio, and digitising operations, geographic coverage by signing new to ensure the comfort and occupational systems, and processes. An internal cooperation agreements in three key health of construction workers in warm In 2019, the global economy recorded its slowest growth since the global financial crisis of 2007-08. Increased trade focus was also essential to continue business aviation markets, namely climates around the world. CE-Creates barriers and associated uncertainties had an adverse impact on business sentiment and led to a significant slowdown in driving efficiencies and making Australia, Japan, and South Korea. existing businesses, ION and industrial activity and trade across the globe. qualitative improvements. Revenues Through these agreements, Kava & Chai, have been delivering on reached $296 million, representing a Gama Aviation was able to provide their growth strategies by reaching Crescent Enterprises’ diversification provided a built-in shield against the slowdown in 2019. Diversification across marginal 9% increase over 2018 levels. depth, breadth, and scale to aircraft wider customer bases. geographical markets and industry sectors has always been a key priority for the company, providing alternative sources owners in markets where such offerings of revenue and risk profiles. Since inception, Crescent Enterprises has built a diverse portfolio of businesses, investments, CE-Operates’ main subsidiary, may have otherwise been unavailable Gulftainer, invested significantly in its locally. CE-Invests’ holdings in private and asset classes that has not only fuelled its growth over the years, but has also provided stability in the face of adversity. people, services, and facilities. The equity funds made exits during the year company implemented employee that generated positive returns. Maintaining the flow of investments across its four platforms, Crescent Enterprises deployed new capital of $80 million in and senior management training 2019, expanding its portfolio from 33 to 39 investments. In addition to new investments, deployed capital is supporting programmes, as well as health CE-Ventures sustained solid growth, the expansion plans of existing portfolio companies, including enabling the introduction of new services and entry to new and safety awareness campaigns further delivering on its strategy of markets. Total assets increased to reach $1.3 billion in 2019, up from $1.2 billion in 2018. and initiatives. New services were supporting high-growth companies and introduced to enhance customer venture funds in the region and globally. experience across all facilities. The In 2019, CE-Ventures deployed capital company’s latest concession at the across five technology companies and Port of Wilmington saw considerable venture capital (VC) funds, in addition to Total assets in $ million New investments in $ million Revenues in $ million infrastructure developments, including making three follow-on investments. new cargo handling equipment and By investing $112.7 million to date, upgrades to warehousing that will CE-Ventures has expanded its portfolio continue into 2020. to include 19 technology start-ups and 1,336 7 VC funds across the MENA region, the 85 357 80 US, and Asia. 296 271 1,259 1,242 49 2017 2018 2019 2017 2018 2019 2017 2018 2019 Crescent Enterprises Annual and Sustainability Report 2019-2020 13 CE-Operates: Driving economic growth through infrastructure development CE-OPERATES Infrastructure is the foundation upon which countries thrive and prosper. It stimulates economic growth through facilitating the movement of people and goods, which enhances supply chains, creates jobs, and alleviates poverty, among other benefits. It is estimated that by 2040, the world needs to invest $94 trillion into infrastructure development, according to the Global Infrastructure Hub. Accomplishing this will require greater collaboration between the public and private sectors and greater involvement from the latter in financing and delivering these projects. The need for increased infrastructure investment is clearly evident in the ports sector, which is of critical importance to CE-Operates and our largest operating business, Gulftainer. Through a 50-year concession, Gulftainer, through its US Spreading operational excellence and driving subsidiary GT USA, is operating the Port of Wilmington in the US State of Delaware, which will see Gulftainer investing up to $600 million to upgrade and expand the port. sustainable economic growth globally Despite the challenges faced by the global container shipping industry in 2019, from overcapacity and falling spot rates to uncertainties around Brexit and US-China trade tensions, Gulftainer has continued to maintain its operational standards while adding new services and expanding its operations. Through the company’s capital spend on its ports, Gulftainer remains committed to developing the overall infrastructure and potential of its ports, leading to a favourable impact on the economies CE-Operates is the Business overview of the five countries it operates in, amongst others. operating business platform of Crescent Enterprises, focusing In the aftermath of the COVID-19 pandemic, infrastructure can help lead the way to global economic recovery. Gulftainer on the infrastructure sector as continues to build on its operational resilience by focusing on enhancing the capacity of its existing ports and investing in technology and digitisation. Additionally, as a key player in the global supply chain, Gulftainer has contributed in various ways the main driver of economic to COVID-19 response efforts across its ports and operations, including prioritising and accelerating the delivery of medical development and growth. Gulftainer Group (Gulftainer), established Momentum Logistics (Momentum) is and essential supplies to communities it operates in. Known for their operational in the Emirate of Sharjah in 1976, is a leading UAE-based integrated thirdThe growth of CE-Operates’ businesses has been enabled by the partnerships we have established and maintained over the excellence, CE-Operates’ the world’s largest privately owned party logistics (3PL) services provider years. Our goal is to enhance current services and capabilities across our operations by continuously collaborating with our independent port operator. The company that offers a complete suite of supply businesses are expanding their stakeholders and consistently fulfilling their requirements. has rapidly expanded its operations and chain management solutions. These global footprint into countries has built a strong presence in various parts solutions include transportation with that require infrastructure of the world. In the UAE, the company interconnectivity across the Gulf region, investments to help enable operates three main ports on behalf of the freight forwarding, warehousing, logistics, Sharjah Port Authority–Sharjah Container container services, and specialised their economic development Terminal (SCT), Khorfakkan Container capabilities, such as oilfield services. and support their social Terminal (KCT), and Hamriyah Port. progress. Momentum, established in 2008, is Globally, Gulftainer’s portfolio includes headquartered at the Sharjah Inland operations in Saudi Arabia, at Jubail Container Depot (SICD), with operations Commercial Port and King Fahad Industrial across the UAE, Saudi Arabia, Iraq, Port, Yanbu, and Northern Container Pakistan, and more recently in the US. Terminal (NCT) in the port of Jeddah; in Iraq, at Umm Qasr Port; and in Lebanon, at CE-Operates has a 50% ownership stake the Port of Tripoli. Gulftainer also operates in Momentum with representation on in Brazil, and in the United States, where Momentum’s Executive Committee it manages and operates the Canaveral providing strategic guidance on expansion Cargo Terminal (CCT) at Port Canaveral, and business growth opportunities. Florida, and the Port of Wilmington, Delaware. CE-Operates holds a 50% ownership stake in Gulftainer and provides strategic guidance through its representation on Gulftainer’s Executive Board and across several committees. Crescent Enterprises Annual and Sustainability Report 2019-2020 15 New service offerings Accomplished milestones Momentum in numbers introduced in the UAE Momentum marked ten years of In conversation with Neeraj Agrawal, Executive Director, Crescent Enterprises In January 2019, Gulftainer unveiled a new sea cargo clearance offering, the operations as a 3PL service provider based in the UAE with a global presence. As it enters its second decade of operations, 100+ 240+ Sharjah Port of Trade (S.P.O.T.) service, TRACTOR UNITS TRAILERS providing unmatched connectivity Momentum continues to enhance its between Sharjah and Dubai. S.P.O.T.’s fleet in support of its plans to double its top line in the next five years. The 130,000 1.5 location and speed of service help reduce delivery costs by as much as company recently added a fleet of 46 New 80%. The port also offers enhanced Generation Scania trucks as it pushed SQM MILLION TONNES What was the focus of CE-Operates’ The COVID-19 pandemic has online customs clearance, 24-hour ahead with its focus on sustainable transport systems. TERMINAL AREA OF CARGO HANDLED strategy in 2019? negatively impacted the global access to major roads and a stateCE-Operates’ businesses witnessed economy, with the global demand for of-the-art facility for on-site cargo and movement of goods significantly Momentum also launched the Telematics steady performance during the year. inspection, along with quality sampling Fleet Management System, its new 1,000+ The first and foremost priority is reduced. How does CE-Operates and testing services at the importer’s plan to respond to the impact of the intelligent fleet tracking and monitoring to continue delivering operational premises. The first direct call at KCT pandemic given the critical role of solution. The technology provides closer excellence and enhancing efficiencies to benefit from the new offering was CONTAINER UNITS the logistics sector in ensuring the insight and detailed data about vehicle across the board. A strong reputation successfully completed in a record 3.4 across industries enabled our availability of essential goods? movement, routes, status, utilisation, or hours. businesses to expand globally. One The global pandemic will certainly abuse. It improves fleet management, particular highlight was our ports change the way the world does In addition to the service at KCT, optimises operations, reduces costs, and and logistics business, Gulftainer, business in the future. Companies that Gulftainer started two new direct improves productivity. completing a successful first year of manage to learn from this episode and services at SCT. The first connects operations at the Port of Wilmington enhance their strategies accordingly Sharjah to India within a three-day and commencing a long-term will emerge more resilient than ever transit time—the shortest in the investment strategy aimed at before. With extensive interests in the market. SCT welcomed the M.V. Port expanding and upgrading the port. The ports and logistics sector, CE-Operates Klang, the fastest direct express 2019 activities marked the launch of has already initiated a number of service between Sharjah’s SCT and Momentum Logistics has consistently looked for new ways to enhance the first leg of the major improvements measures intended to minimise the the Kandla, Hazira, and Nhava Sheva operational efficiency in anticipation of new opportunities for growth at the port as part of a $100 million risks and respond to the challenges investment programme. Once presented by the pandemic. Gulftainer ports in India, with only a three-day around the world. As we mark our tenth anniversary, it is encouraging transit time from the last port in India completed, the port will see a doubling has established Express Service to Sharjah. The maiden vessel call was to note that we continue to build credibility both at home and abroad. in its cargo throughput capacity. Lanes to expedite the movement of completed at an impressive 45 gross Our goal is to capitalise on the upsurge in consumer spending, global essential goods through its ports, which has allowed it to move over a moves per hour (GMPH). economic growth, and technological advancements that will enable us million tonnes of cargo during the The second direct service links the to achieve enhanced growth over the coming years.” With the rising global demand pandemic. Similarly, Momentum has emirate with upper Gulf countries. on infrastructure projects, are taken measures to ensure the efficient Stuart Mainland, General Manager of Momentum Logistics sustainability concerns becoming SCT welcomed M.V. MAG Pearl as transportation of essential goods more important and challenging to in order to minimise the impact on a direct service between Sharjah’s manage? individuals who are at home due to Port Khalid and the Port of social distancing. In 2020, CE-Operates Abu Al Fulus in Iraq, contributing to In Iraq, Gulftainer’s ICT achieved a major As the discussions at this year’s will continue to assess the impact the strengthening of business links milestone in 2019, registering container World Economic Forum revealed, of COVID-19 and take measures to between these two regional trade volume of two million twenty-foot sustainability concerns are at the top of the priority list for most major build more resilience in the event of hubs. equivalent units (TEUs) since inception companies. As we continue to invest unfavourable supply chain disruptions. of operations. The company has in infrastructure projects globally, invested heavily in the ICT to develop a the challenges we face from the 376-metre berth and container storage perspective of sustainability will area within the 342,000 sqm terminal become increasingly complex, whether that currently has the capacity to handle they are related to compliance, energy in excess of 400,000 TEUs per year, efficiency, health and safety, local allowing for future volume increase. community management, or any other Gulftainer expanded its storage space component of corporate sustainability. by developing a new yard to increase ICT’s annual handling capacity to With a long-term strategy focusing on 640,000 TEUs. In addition, the company managing sustainability risks based has plans to launch a new customer on the SDG framework, we believe our web portal, allowing for container businesses are adequately prepared and vessel tracking, generating online to meet the sustainability challenges proforma invoices, and sharing up-toof the future. date terminal information. Crescent Enterprises Annual and Sustainability Report 2019-2020 17 Commitment to exports, shipments of used vehicles to Improving efficiency through Embedding a culture of West Africa, and imports of Fiat and developing sustainable Jeep Chrysler vehicles. GT USA signed a technology investment health and safety across infrastructure limited contract with the MSC Shipping Powered by digital transformation, Gulftainer our operations Gulftainer and Momentum completed Line to begin a new service to the Port continues to provide a seamless customer Safety is a critical component of the Saja’a Access Road in Sharjah in of Wilmington. Impressed by GT USA’s experience for its ports and logistics partners. the work ethos of the operating the UAE that was built in partnership service offering, MSC extended the In 2019, the company launched a new digital businesses of CE-Operates. As such, with the Roads and Transport contract. Under that renewed contract, payment module at SCT, allowing customers our businesses have taken extensive Authority (RTA). The road connects volumes on MSC’s service increased to make digital payments through payment action to inculcate this culture in their the Saja’a Industrial Investment Park by 71% from last year. Likewise, in cards, mobile phones or over the internet. operations across the globe. Pursuant (SIIP), Gulftainer’s first-ever leasehold Canaveral, GT USA signed a five-year The digital payment facilities have allowed to this, Gulftainer has transitioned initiative, to the three major seaports in contract with the Australian lumber the company to increase sales and reduce from OHSAS 18001:2007 certification company Practerra Pty. Ltd. for CCT transaction costs. Gulftainer embarked on Our award-winning Safety and Training and QHSE teams Sharjah Port Khalid, Hamriyah Port, and standard to the more advanced ISO Khorfakkan Port, as well as Sharjah’s to serve as their exclusive Florida port automation projects across its terminal 45001:2008, and has successfully work hand in hand to promote employees’ maximal International Airport and the UAE’s of exports. operations to enhance efficiency and the completed the recertification audit. safety and comfort across operations. To ensure stringent utilisation of terminal resources using Organic wider road network. The 750,000 sqm Momentum has launched operations Response techniques to automate vesselThe business also conducts stringent compliance with applicable health and safety regulations, SIIP will become a fully bonded logistics internal safety audits that are facility, thus remaining exempt from in the US State of Delaware to provide side and yard-side operations. Dual cycling, scheduled as per an internal audit we hold regular awareness sessions and training events for duty and value added tax (VAT) until a complete suite of supply chain the last-minute selection of containers for planner, with a total of 69 audits all employees, provide them with comprehensive health release to the local market. management solutions. The company’s loading, is one of the advanced features conducted in 2019. examinations, and encourage their participation in external services include: deployed at Gulftainer’s terminals to enable GT USA, Gulftainer’s subsidiary in the execution of complete systems-driven Several other health and safety health and lifestyle events.” the US, commenced the first leg of • Freight forwarding, a one-stop operations. The company rolled out a stateinitiatives have been undertaken, solution that includes air freight, Aparna Jayadevan, Assistant QHSE Manager, Gulftainer major improvements at the Port of of-the-art customer relationship management such as Safety Committee meetings, Wilmington as part of a $100 million ocean freight, customs clearance, system for automating and optimising sales toolbox talks, Health, Safety, and investment programme in the facility. and land transport; processes and enhancing the customer Environment (HSE) inspections, HSE The improvements will lead to an experience. training, supply of hydration drinks Gulftainer’s safety data • Warehousing, which capitalises upgrade in the cargo throughput during summer, display of signage on the Port of Wilmington’s six This year, Gulftainer adopted a cloud-based capability from 350,000 TEUs to 600,000 and HSE posters across all sites, and refrigerated, state-of-the-art cold strategy to consolidate its infrastructure and Total number of LTIs LTIF TEUs, and capacity enhancement for customised HSE induction training. storage warehouses, 800,000 square applications. The company enabled numerous roll-on roll-off cargo. GT USA acquired Additionally, all operational sites feet of dockside cold storage in six methods to allow customers to conduct online nine 41-tonne Rubber Tired Gantry are mandated to follow leading warehouses, two state-of-the-art dry transactions, with the aim of minimising or (RTG) cranes, three 45-tonne Reach housekeeping practices. cargo warehouses totalling 250,000 eliminating the need for personal visits or Stackers, 16 Terminal Tractors, and 10 1.19 square feet, and less-than-container telephone calls to the ports. In addition to Gulftainer did not record any 35 Bombcarts. The installation of load (LCL) facilities; and, the launch of these enhanced tools within fatalities during 2019 in line with the 8 the new equipment will help lower exhaust emissions by reducing fossil the customer service portal, businesses can company’s target of zero fatalities. 6 • Container repair, which includes 1.10 1.09 fuel consumption as well as improve now create, monitor and manage their work The company reported six Lost-Time buying, selling, and leasing new safety. The improvement at the Port orders online. This move will facilitate efficient Injuries (LTIs) in 2019, achieving a and second-hand ISO shipping of Wilmington is part of the 50-year processes for both customers and personnel. reduction of 25% from 2018, which containers, conversions and concession agreement for GT USA, by Along with technical innovation within the significantly exceeds the targeted fabrications, container painting, which the company will invest $600 company’s flagship terminals in the UAE, its 10% reduction. It also reduced its and refurbishment. 2017 2018 2019 2017 2018 2019 million to upgrade and expand the projects in the US to handle general cargo Lost-Time Injury Frequency (LTIF) to port, including $500 million earmarked and roll on-roll off cargo are progressing at 1.09 in 2019. In addition, the number for a new container facility at DuPont’s Strengthening leadership the Port of Wilmington. Most recently, a key of issues raised by Quality, Health, Gulftainer’s safety initiatives were former Edgemoor site, which will have capacity customer successfully onboarded to the new Safety, and Environment (QHSE) Number of issues raised recognised by credible international a capacity of 1.2 million TEUs. To effectively navigate through platform and is now leveraging the significant officers fell to 474 in 2019 from 711 by QHSE officers safety bodies such as the British Safety uncertainty and build resilience against benefits of this automation process. the year prior. Gulftainer has an Council, who awarded the Sharjah Through its first year of operations future economic shocks, Gulftainer internal target of resolving 50% of Container Terminal the International at the facility, GT USA succeeded Gulftainer has partnered with a Silicon Valleyissues raised by QHSE officers within a strengthened its top management Safety Award. The Sharjah Container in transitioning all the legacy port based technology company to develop an month in coordination with its Safety 1,131 talent pool by welcoming new senior Terminal also won the Royal Society customers in addition to attracting innovation programme titled ‘The Future of Department. GT USA’s CCT recorded executives. The group appointed a new for the Prevention of Accidents (RoSPA) new customers. Among the continuing Ports Startup Challenge 2020’. The project 40 consecutive months without a Chief Commercial Officer, David Casey, 711 Gold Award in the Achievement legacy customers are fruit importers will challenge entrepreneurs and startups to Lost-Time incident. who has vast experience working in 474 Category. Chiquita and Dole, stevedoring firm develop groundbreaking, highly disruptive numerous industry sectors, and who will Port Contractors Inc., warehousing technologies that aim to redefine the ports Similarly, Momentum Logistics received be responsible for developing tailored, company Intercontinental Services of and shipping sector. Gulftainer also has a the International Safety Award from the innovative, and flexible future port Delaware LLC, and vehicle processor, strategic technology roadmap in place, with British Safety Council and the RoSPA’s solutions. The group has also appointed AutoPort Inc. The port maintained its the core considerations being to increase its 2017 2018 2019 Gold Award for Fleet Safety and RoSPA Gordon Ferguson as the new Group role as North America’s number one competitive advantage and mitigate rising Silver Award. General Counsel, bringing almost 20 banana import port while dynamic operational costs. In line with this roadmap, years of industry experience. roll-on/roll-off operations handle the company remains committed to the Chrysler, General Motors, and Ford continuous integration of the latest digital solutions into its operations. Crescent Enterprises Annual and Sustainability Report 2019-2020 19 Managing the Gulftainer emphasises responsible Corporate Social •E ducation: To help improve adult waste management and has education in Delaware, GT USA has environmental footprint implemented targeted measures to Responsibility is the social acquired the lease of Elbert Palmer responsibly reduce hazardous and non-hazardous license to operate School in Southbridge near the Port CE-Operates strives to ensure that waste generation. It also recycles or Our operating businesses routinely of Wilmington and intends to use it its operating businesses adhere to composts its non-hazardous waste to engage with local stakeholders in order as an employee training centre, an all applicable local and international reduce the amount of waste ending to ensure they are having a positive education facility for adult residents, environmental standards and work up in landfill. All hazardous waste and inclusive long-term socio-economic and a new home for the International towards improving their resource is disposed through authorised impact. Longshoremen’s Association. efficiency and reducing their government agencies such as Bee’ah •H ealth and Wellness: GT USA is environmental footprint. Not only did in Sharjah. Gulftainer has developed a robust in discussions with organisations our operating businesses not report Corporate Social Responsibility (CSR) interested in partnering to initiate any instance of non-compliance with Gulftainer’s waste management policy focusing on four pillars, namely, community health programmes in environmental regulations, but they also initiatives have allowed it to reduce Employability, Education, Health poverty-stricken areas, through its sought to reduce their carbon footprint the amount of hazardous and nonand Wellness, and Environmental established wellness programme, by adopting efficient technologies and hazardous waste generated compared to Stewardship. The company’s subsidiaries Positive Pulse. constant process improvements. the previous two years, and to increase around the world have adopted this CSR the share of non-hazardous waste that policy, including GT USA. • Environment: GT USA has participated is recycled or composted. Another key in consultations with the Marine priority this year has been reducing GT USA has introduced a number of Science and Policy Unit at the paper consumption, including: initiatives aligned with Gulftainer’s four University of Delaware to explore CSR pillars, including: collaboration on several projects, •T racking paper consumption levels; including environmental research •E mployability: GT USA’s scholarship and awareness events targeting the •E ncouraging users to avoid printing programme offers scholarships to four shipping community. documents; deserving students majoring in logistics •D igitising several applications; and, studies every year. •E nhancing the awareness of users Hazardous waste Hazardous waste Paper consumed through regular emails and toolbox generated (in kg) recycled (in kg) (in reams) talks. 403,400 127,160 4,002 106,970 Sustainable Development Good health and well-being Goals framework Clean water and sanitistion 1,800 CE-Operates 1,497 Managing the ESG aspects of business 107,567 Affordable and clean energy 18,570 is integral to Crescent Enterprises’ 18,851 sustainable business growth plan. In Decent work and economic growth line with global leading practices, the 2017 2018 2019 2017 2018 2019 2017 2018 2019 four platforms of Crescent Enterprises, Industry, innovation, and infrastructure including CE-Operates, have made a long-term commitment to contributing Responsible consumption and production to the realisation of the UN SDGs. Non-hazardous waste Non-hazardous waste Non-hazardous waste Climate change generated (in kg) recycled (in kg) composted (in kg) This year, an SDG framework has been identified for CE-Operates. The Life below water framework identifies the SDGs most Peace, justice, and strong institutions 32,000,000 relevant to this platform, as well as the 169,920 31,999,000 148,300 associated impact areas and future Partnerships for the goals 22,705,900 22,557,600 opportunities. The opposite table summarises the SDGs deemed most relevant to CE-Operates. The detailed Current impact areas Future opportunities 8,459,328 8,289,408 framework for CE-Operates, consisting of the material SDGs, impact areas and 1,360 KPIs, can be found at the end of this report. 2017 2018 2019 2017 2018 2019 2017 2018 2019 Crescent Enterprises Annual and Sustainability Report 2019-2020 21 CE-INVESTS Driving enhanced performance and differentiated returns through long-term, impact-driven strategic investments CE-Invests is Business overview Crescent Enterprises’ strategic investments platform that manages our private equity and alternative investments. With a Gama Aviation Plc is one of the world’s Growthgate Capital is a private equity CE-Invests’ portfolio: Strong resilience amidst market slowdown long-term investment horizon, the strategy of CE-Invests is to largest business aviation service firm that focuses on the middle-market In 2019, private equity witnessed another year of strong performance, bringing an end to a decade of continuous providers. Its services are split into segment and follows a buy-and-build outperformance against equivalents in public markets. Globally, assets under management were valued at over $4 trillion maintain a balanced investment three divisions: Air, Ground, and Global investment strategy in the MENA region. at the end of the year, with record-high levels of dry powder at nearly $2.3 trillion across all fund types, according to Preqin. portfolio spanning alternative Services. Gama Aviation’s network Since 2008, the firm has invested in eight The strong performance in 2019 also led to new commitments of approximately $500 billion in private equity during the year. asset classes, including private spans more than 40 locations across companies, and conducted over 24 boltIn the MENA region, although the private equity sector saw a few notable transactions during 2019, it mainly experienced an equity and other structured four continents and employs over 1,300 on acquisitions on their behalf. To date, unfavourable fundraising environment. investments. CE-Invests professionals. Growthgate has completed four exits. CE-Invests’ portfolio of direct investments and funds witnessed steady performance through 2019 and continued to deliver provides strategic guidance CE-Invests is a minority shareholder CE-Invests is a shareholder in and on their strategies despite challenging market conditions in the MENA region. While there were some exits in 2019, the funds to its investments through in Gama Aviation Plc. provides strategic guidance to across the portfolio have generally seen longer holding periods. representation on their boards Growthgate by means of representation or limited partners advisory on the firm’s board of directors. Coming into 2020, investors were expecting a market correction, and hence were generally cautious in their investment approach and deployment strategies. This may potentially help them better navigate the uncertainty in the markets rapidly brought on by committees. the COVID-19 crisis. As the economic impact of COVID-19 is felt across industries, the private equity industry is bracing for a challenging environment with a tightening credit market, declining asset prices, and likely increased holding periods. Nonetheless, resilient H E A LT H C A R E capital will be well-positioned to pursue future opportunities in the market. TVM Capital Healthcare is a globally Samena Limestone Holdings (Samena Siraj Fund Management Company (Siraj) active healthcare private equity Limestone) is a special-purpose vehicle was founded by Palestine-based Massar company with strengths in emerging managed by Samena Capital, a principal International to manage and oversee markets. It invests growth capital in investment group with investments investment funds in Palestine that spur companies that transform the way across multiple asset classes in the sustainable industrial development and healthcare is delivered, making it more Subcontinent, Asia, and the MENA region. economic growth. reliable, more accessible, and more efficient. Samena Limestone is part of a Samena Siraj launched Siraj Palestine Fund I Capital Group-managed consortium of (SPF I), a $90 million private equity fund. CE-Invests is a limited partner in investors, which together acquired a SPF I has concluded 14 investments in 7 TVM Capital Healthcare’s Fund I and 30.6 per cent stake in RAK Ceramics in sectors. provides strategic support through 2014, one of the world’s largest ceramic representation on its limited partners’ tile manufacturers. CE-Invests is a limited partner in SPF I advisory board. with representation on the fund’s limited CE-Invests is a shareholder in Samena partners’ advisory committee. Limestone Holdings. Crescent Enterprises Annual and Sustainability Report 2019-2020 23 Gama Aviation Plc. •N ew contract awards: Gama Aviation ESG performance indicators: •T  o ensure the highest levels of safety, added two new aircraft management • Gama Aviation is listed on the the aviation industry has significant Gama Aviation has made steady contracts in 2019, to manage an Airbus Alternative Investment Market (AIM) and complex regulations that cover In conversation with Ghada Abdelkader, progress in getting the business back ACJ and the first Embraer Praetor in the of the London Stock Exchange. topics such as training, engineering, VP, CE-Invests on track after a turbulent 2018. The MENA region. The contracts follow the The board of Gama Aviation has safety, and operations. A dedicated resilience of Gama Aviation’s business company’s establishment of a GACA adopted the Quoted Companies team of employees is assigned and the focus on strengthening its Part 125 Operating Certificate, based Alliance (QCA) Corporate Governance for regular liaison with relevant operational platform have supported out of Jeddah, to assist local aircraft Code recognising the importance regulatory authorities to ensure that the company in continuing to deliver owners with the transition to GACA’s of effective corporate governance. Gama Aviation is up-to-date and on its strategy. In 2019, Gama Aviation new regulations. The principles and disclosures set in compliance with all regulatory focused on achieving organic growth out by the QCA Code provide a requirements. How do you define CE-Invests’ Measures to mitigate these risks have and investment and targeted strategic • New approvals: In 2019, Gama strategy and what are the key become a common topic of discussion acquisitions while maintaining a framework to ensure Gama Aviation Aviation announced the addition of •G  ama Aviation recognises its aspects you look for in new in boardrooms. Similarly, CE-Invests has strong focus on its core mature has appropriate corporate governance the GCAA A6 maintenance approval commitment to society and the investments? implemented robust internal measures business division. The group’s resilient structures and processes in place. The for the Challenger 604/605 type at environment by adopting the governing ESG considerations in our business model is supported by framework promotes the success of As long-term investors, our strategy its world class Maintenance, Repair, ISO 26000 standard. portfolio. This year, we augmented our essential contracted services and the company and long-term value for is to target companies and funds and Overhaul (MRO) facility located that add to the diversity of efforts in this area by identifying and a global reach, which will allow the shareholders alongside a corporate in Bournemouth. In addition, Gama Crescent Enterprises’ growing aligning our key focus areas with the UN group to navigate these challenges culture that is based on ethical values Aviation became the new Embraer portfolio. We aim to invest in SDGs. We are confident that adopting and refocus on delivering sustainable and behaviour. Compliance reviewed Authorised Service Center (EASC) for companies with astute management the framework laid out by the SDGs will returns. at least annually, in line with the the Lineage 1000/1000E and Legacy teams that strive to spearhead allow us to both generate returns on requirement of the QCA Code. 600/650 executive jets in Hong Kong. their respective sectors. As a investments and create a positive social • Investments in new acquisitions: Through this agreement, Gama responsible investor, we also place and environmental impact in our regions Gama Aviation acquired the trade of operation. Aviation became one of only four equal importance on embedding assets of a paint and interior Embraer authorised service centres in ESG principles into our investment completion business operated by China. process. Lotus Aviation Group at Fort Lauderdale Executive airport. The • Award for excellent service: To date, this has mainly been What are CE-Invests’ focus areas for facility retains a strong track record in 2020 and how are they affected by Gama Aviation’s Middle East subsidiary, achieved through our investments the completions market, serving clients across multiple private equity funds COVID-19? Gama Aviation FZC, was named from across the US and Central and Business Aircraft Operator of the Year in the MENA region, which gave Our strategy remains the same. Our South America, and is ideally situated at the Aviation Business Awards 2019. us access to 29 companies with diversified portfolio across multiple for Gama Aviation’s existing Floridian operations in over 15 countries. sectors can soften the impact of economic heavy maintenance locations at Opa • Strategic divestments: Earlier this Moving forward, we aim to expand shocks. We will continue to build on Locka and Palm Beach International. year (2020), Gama Aviation sold its our mandate into more direct our diversified portfolio by adding new investments through which we can US Air Associate, Gama Aviation LLC, investments across key growth sectors •E xpanding the depth and breadth add value by providing access to which conducts business under the such as education, healthcare, and fastof operations: Gama Aviation resilient capital, global networks, and name Gama Aviation Signature, to moving consumer goods, amongst others. commenced its General Sales Agent operational expertise. Furthermore, we see opportunities in Wheels Up Partners Holdings LLC network by signing agreements in (Wheels Up). Gama Aviation will receive high-growth regions such as sub-Saharan three key business aviation markets: a total consideration of $33 million, Africa, and South and South-East Asia. Australia, Japan, and South Korea. The comprising $10 million in return for its Our sectoral and regional focus is driven What measures have you taken to network represents Gama Aviation’s 24.5% equity interest and $23 million by the significant market size of these integrate ESG parameters into aircraft management platform, using for accelerated branding fees and regions, rising urbanisation within these CE-Invests’ operations? markets, and large emerging middle-class Gama Aviation’s depth, breadth, and other trading related considerations. populations with increasing disposable scale to offer aircraft owners value $13 million of the total purchase Given the increasing vulnerability that businesses around the world face incomes, enabling stable in-country enhancements that may have been consideration was paid in cash on owing to ESG risks, we understand the demand. We believe that there will be otherwise unavailable to them within closing, and the remaining $20 million significant role that ESG parameters ample opportunities for new investments the local market. Gama Aviation has is set to be paid in cash with interest in play in safeguarding our investments, and that we are favourably positioned to also signed a marketing cooperation eight equal six-month instalments over and are committed to ensuring navigate this unprecedented time and agreement with the bespoke adventure the next four years. Gama Aviation compliance with ESG standards, and emerge from it successfully. travel company, Momentum Adventure. intends to use the proceeds from the encouraging the adoption of progressive The cooperation agreement will sale to continue to execute its strategic ESG practices. One of the key themes see both parties providing bespoke objectives through organic and of discussion at the World Economic experiences in the premium adventure acquisitive growth investments, further Forum 2020 was the level of risk posed travel sector. consolidating the fragmented business by climate change and the environment. aviation market. Crescent Enterprises Annual and Sustainability Report 2019-2020 25 Growthgate Capital 26 Due to its experience in handling In 2019, RH opened 25 new stores and Irisguard experienced a successful Roots Group UK (RGUK) is a UK-based previous viral outbreaks, as of the restaurants, of which 13 new stores were 2019 that started with the launch of the company with three major activity Growthgate Capital’s (Growthgate) publication date of this report, Averda added by LBV, bringing the total number EyePay® phone, which expanded its centres in Europe, the Middle East, diverse portfolio performed well. On OPERATING COMPANIES South Africa has been advising of LBV stores to 104, covering 26 cities. product offering into the mobility field, and Africa. Established in 1981, RGUK average, the portfolio achieved higher the Department of Health and the LBV concluded 54 million transactions, lowering costs, expediting deployment, is a majority owner in 26 operating growth in both revenues and margins— Department of Environmental Affairs and revenues increased by 15% to reach and most importantly, improving offline companies under three integrated having continued to invest in valued human capital and in expanding the on the setting up of quarantine sites. MAD 9.4 billion (approx. $987 million). capability. This was complemented divisions: distribution of building MARKET PRESENCE RH also increased its stake in CDCI to by the addition of customers such as materials and construction equipment, physical footprint of the portfolio, which 45,514,950 M³ become the sole owner. RH currently the World Food Programme (WFP) manufacturing of architectural today collectively extends from South employs close to 6,500 people. Lebanon and Jordan, and UN Women; finishes and sanitaryware, power KINGDOM OF SAUDI ARABIA, Africa to Saudi Arabia. Growthgate is SIZE OF TOTAL LANDFILLS the introduction of the world’s first cash generation solutions, and design and THE UAE, QATAR, EGYPT, LEBANON, focusing its efforts on realising the value LBV has witnessed increased sales as OPERATED aid distribution on a private blockchain; fit-out services. RGUK’s manufacturing JORDAN, UK, AND NIGERIA it can extract from its active portfolio a result of COVID-19. In April 2020, it further growth in the Iraq pension subsidiaries operate 12 plants across the with the aim of maximising shareholder launched online deliveries through scheme; the distribution of pension Middle East and Africa and manufacture returns. Averda International (Averda), an end23,884,140 the website, Jumia Food. The service is available in the large cities of Rabat, payments to 7 million people via Egypt Post; and the first-ever rollout via a construction-related products. 12 TONNES OF WASTE TREATED Casablanca, Marrakech, Agadir, and Fez, mobile wallet in partnership with Zain In 2019, RGUK made significant strides to-end waste management company, PLANTS with plans to extend to smaller cities Cash Iraq utilising the EyePay® mobile in Africa as the company commercially acquired Dubai-based Zenath Recycling 10,000 during the year. phone platform. repositioned itself by introducing full and Waste Management (Zenath), which procurement services. By the end offers disposal and collection services to Irisguard is a fintech company whose The current COVID-19 crisis has put of 2019, the company was working over 1,000 clients across Dubai. Through TONNES PER DAY OF WASTE seamless end-to-end iris recognition a spotlight on contactless biometrics. on its fourth project. This resulted in this acquisition, Averda will add 38 trucks COLLECTED EyeCloud solution can be integrated Many organisations, including WFP, the African business accounting for and a workforce of 150 employees. The into any payment or service system, have banned the use of fingerprint 43% of total group revenues. Other 2,172,480 acquisition will allow Averda to realise including digital currencies and technology out of health concerns. The international markets ramped up activity several synergies, including further mobile devices such as smartphones, use of face recognition is also negatively as well, which led to these markets economies of scale and the ability to TONNES OF WASTE tablets, and point of sale (POS). The affected by the use of masks. Iris gaining more than 10% of total group crossand up-sell end-to-end waste RECYCLED iris solution is also used to secure the recognition is expected to become one revenues, driven by revenue and profit services to a larger client base. identification of individuals in blockchain of the preferred biometric technologies growth in the UK and Egypt markets. Retail Holding (RH) owns and operates transactions (Ethereum secure ledger) Averda also opened Al Ain Recycling due to its totally contactless system. several retail platforms and international by authenticating the irises and using Centre in the UAE. The centre enables franchises spread over three key residents and businesses to recycle them for the release of the 32-byte pillars: modern grocery, non-grocery blockchain private key. their waste efficiently. The collection businesses, and commercial real estate. centre was opened as part of the The company has 315 stores across Currently, Irisguard’s customers are ongoing partnership with Abu Dhabi Morocco and the Ivory Coast. It controls based in several countries in the MENA Waste Management Centre – Tadweer Label Vie (LBV), a public entity listed on region, and its technology is used in for outsourcing the provision of waste the Casablanca Stock Exchange, and the customers’ programmes worldwide. collection, transportation and general second-largest modern grocery retailer Originally a traditional supplier of cleaning services in Al Ain Region and Carrefour’s partner in Morocco. hardware and software, following the North Zone. It also operates hyper cash stores, success of its verification and enrolment Atacadao. RH owns the Compagnie de contract with the United Nations During the COVID-19 pandemic, Averda Distribution de Côte d’Ivoire (CDCI) in High Commissioner for Refugees for maintained its critical services while the Ivory Coast, the second-largest food Syrian refugees in Jordan, Irisguard taking all relevant steps to ensure retailer in the country with a network has transitioned its revenue model employees’ safety. It has also proactively of 147 stores operating under three over the years into a more innovative, supported government efforts to brands: CDCI Gros, CDCI Demi-Gros, transaction-based model that ensures respond to the pandemic. and King Cash. It also holds exclusive stable and recurring revenue streams. partnerships with international brands in Morocco, namely Virgin Megastore, OPERATIONS IN Burger King, and KIABI. JORDAN, IRAQ, LEBANON, AND EGYPT 315 EyePay® STORES 25 PHONE LAUNCH NEW STORES AND RESTAURANTS 7 MILLION 26 RECEIVERS OF PENSION PAYMENTS CITIES IN MOROCCO Crescent Enterprises Annual and Sustainability Report 2019-2020 27 RAK Ceramics RAK Ceramics continued with The company has adopted a Siraj Palestine Nakheel Palestine (Nakheel) achieved Development impact is achieved using its efficiency programme at all comprehensive set of corporate unexpected significant growth in its a hands-on, value creation approach Since Samena Capital invested in RAK Siraj Palestine Fund I (SPF I) continues manufacturing units, which contributed governance policies and procedures that production of around 45%, reaching that includes bringing in top-quality Ceramics in 2014, the company has to push forward with its strategy of significantly to the record gross profit draws upon global best practices and over 2,000 tonnes of dates. The growth management; implementing systematic implemented a Value Creation Plan helping to develop the Palestinian margin and helped the company remain is in accordance with all relevant UAE in production was associated with an operational, governance, and monitoring that has transformed the business economy through its investments in one of the most profitable ceramic legislation, including Resolution No. 7 of increase in revenues of around 67%. The procedures; and identifying vertical into a world-class ceramics producer various key sectors. In 2019, the fund brands in the world. 2016 of the Securities and Commodities jump in production has shown improved and horizontal routes for expansion to with a ‘lifestyle solutions’ offering. made three exits, namely The National Authority concerning Corporate farming efficiency, and challenged the allow portfolio companies to expand The plan has focused on three main In 2019, RAK Ceramics continued to Bank, PalLease, and Aman. Portfolio Governance Rules and Corporate sales and marketing department who their market share and achieve higher areas: exiting non-core investments; focus on achieving its vision of becoming companies were performing well during Discipline Standards. This ensures the succeeded in opening new markets and profitability. investing in the core ceramics, tiles, the world’s leading ceramics lifestyle the first few months in 2020; however, utmost level of vigilance by the Board of putting the premium Palestinian brand and sanitaryware operations; and brand by further differentiating itself as Palestine started witnessing the • Economic development impact: Directors, executive management, and on the international scene in over 20 strengthening the company’s controls from competitors through sustained spread of COVID-19, the economy has Revitalising the Palestinian economy by employees of RAK Ceramics. countries. In 2019, it participated in and management infrastructure. Since investment in branding, product been impacted as in the rest of the investing in companies that have strong multiple international food exhibitions, then, the company has exited 12 nondifferentiation, and optimisation, and In 2019, RAK Ceramics formed a world. The fund’s portfolio companies social and development impact. Most including the Gulf Food Exhibition in core entities, generating in excess of improved operational efficiencies by sustainability working group, which are likely to be affected to various Palestinian companies are defined as Dubai. $130 million that has been reinvested leveraging automation and process defined the company’s material degrees owing to the diversified nature SMEs, which employ most of the privateinto the core production capacity of tiles enhancements. sustainability topics. Taking into of the portfolio, but most portfolio Wassel Group, which offers a sector labour force. Siraj's investments and sanitaryware. The company has consideration informal feedback companies are expected to emerge comprehensive network of logistics and play an integral role in the employment also acquired the stakes of joint venture In 2020, RAK Ceramics is aiming to received from stakeholders throughout strong. distribution services, has witnessed of women, youth, and low-income partners in India, Iran, UK, Germany, maintain its market share in the UAE, the year, global trends in sustainability positive performance during 2019. families and their inclusion in the Italy, and Saudi Arabia. Bangladesh, and India, grow its market for the ceramics industry, and the Select portfolio companies update Its logistics services subsidiary has Palestinian workforce. share in Saudi Arabia further, and regional and local context of the Palestine Development and Investment launched new services in 2019 such as 22 strengthen the overall performance company’s business operations, 12 Company (PADICO Holding), listed on passport renewal services. E-commerce • ESG impact: Creating social and of its distribution entities in Europe. material sustainability topics have Palestine Exchange, aims to develop the services have shown a significant environmental awareness in portfolio Despite the impact of COVID-19 on been identified. Palestinian economy by investing in its increase in volumes. The group reported companies and enhancing corporate PLANTS WORLDWIDE operations in countries facing lockdown, vital sectors, including but not limited to revenues of $9.1 million in 2019; governance. the company remains financially RAK Ceramics has also made agriculture, industry, financial services, representing an increase of 11% over 49.2 MILLION strong and, as a widely regarded global strides in further strengthening its and infrastructure. In 2019, the founder 2018 levels. • Capacity-building: Enhancing leader in its industry with a world-class sustainability reporting practice. The and Chairman of Massar International, business environment and management team, RAK Ceramics aims company evolved from reporting on promoting professional standards SQUARE METRES OF TILES Bashar Masri, was elected by the board Creating development impact PRODUCED to emerge more resilient once this sustainability on an ad-hoc basis in the of directors of PADICO Holding as its by institutionalising administrative, Siraj’s investment strategy is focused financial, and operational procedures. crisis passes. past, to a commitment to reporting new chairman. on generating economic returns while SFMC provides technical assistance on sustainability measures on a yearly 22.3 MILLION creating development impact that will to the portfolio companies in order to Sustainability at RAK Ceramics basis, alongside its annual report and In 2019, PADICO’s performance benefit the Palestinian society and enhance management capacity, improve RAK Ceramics believes that sound governance report, which provide a improved significantly, with its TABLEWARE ITEMS PRODUCED economy and support the emergence market focus and presence, strengthen corporate governance is a key pillar in thorough overview of RAK Ceramics' preliminary results recording of a self-sustaining Palestinian state. governance, and manage growth. running a sustainable and profitable financial, governance, and risk positions. consolidated revenues of $162.61 million The firm is a signatory to the UN PRI in 2019; increasing 33.5% from 2.7 MILLION business that ensures value creation for since 2018. all stakeholders. $121.18 million in 2018. PADICO’s consolidated net income increased PIECES OF SANITARYWARE PRODUCED by 28% to $19.9 million in 2019 compared to $15.5 million in 2018. This improvement is a result of the enhanced The regional building materials and performance of its subsidiaries and construction sector faced a challenging affiliates; mainly PADICO Tourism market environment in 2019. Accordingly, Company, Nakheel Palestine Company, RAK ceramics experienced decreasing and Jericho Gate for Real Estate sales volume, which resulted in a 5.6% Development Company. decline in revenue to AED 2.57 billion (approx. $700 million). Compared to PalGaz, a liquefied petroleum gas 2018 on constant currency basis, the (LPG) distribution company, witnessed negative impact on sales represents an increase in its tonnage sales by a decline of 2.8%. Therefore, overall 8% compared to 2018; as the total performance is considered to have been tonnage sales have reached over 7,300 robust considering weakened market tonnes. Similarly, the number of active conditions. Despite the slight dip in residential meters grew by 15% in revenue, RAK Ceramics reported a 2019, reaching 3,756 as the company net profit of AED 205.2 million continued to provide its nationwide (approx. $56 million) and achieved customers with full gas solutions, which a record total gross profit margin of includes the refilling and distribution of 33.2%, which represents an increase gas cylinders, LPG distribution, meter of 120 basis points when compared installation, and large-scale central gas to 2018. network piping. Crescent Enterprises Annual and Sustainability Report 2019-2020 29 TVM Capital Healthcare Bourn Hall International (BHI) has Cambridge Medical & Rehabilitation Creating positive impact TVM Capital Healthcare portfolio As a signatory to the UN PRI since 2015, TVM Capital Healthcare has witnessed delivered premier service and quality Center (CMRC) admitted the first Although the firm’s key aim is to companies (as of 31 December 2019) the firm reports on ESG performance a number of key developments during through its clinics across the UAE. patients into its newly established facility generate profit for its investors, TVM by providing an annual mandatory 2019, including the introduction of In late-2018, Mediclinic Middle East in Saudi Arabia, which is in the process Capital Healthcare has combined its transparency report. TVM Capital new products and expansion into new markets, as the firm continues acquired a minority stake in BHI MENA, as part of a partnership focused on of receiving accreditation from the Saudi Central Board for Accreditation of investment approach with a social purpose: creating centres of excellence 1,773 Healthcare is also a member of the Global Impact Investing Network. to deliver on its strategy of providing long-term expansion in the field of Healthcare Institutions (CBAHI). In 2019, in healthcare in regions where access EMPLOYEES assisted reproduction in the region. CMRC has seen 240 inpatients admitted Select ESG impact areas high-quality healthcare services to quality, specialty healthcare services Under the terms of the partnership, (294 in 2018) across its facilities and and products is limited. Healthcare Amecath employees volunteered for and products through its portfolio companies. The COVID-19 pandemic has provided yet another example of BHI MENA took over operations of Mediclinic's existing IVF clinic located in 36,058 outpatient visits (26,171 in 2018). Manzil Healthcare Services is the investments per se have a substantial impact on the economy at large while 60% 10,000 hours to run environmental clean-up campaigns and other community activities. the continuous need for healthcare Mediclinic Al Ain Hospital and started delivering notable societal benefits that OF THE WORKFORCE IS FEMALE operating it under the Bourn Hall largest home healthcare services and investment regardless of market contribute to UN SDGs 3, 5, and 8. BHI conducted numerous community umbrella. BHI MENA is also working disease management provider in the conditions. Existing and new challenges, events addressing fertility issues and on refurbishing another Mediclinic site UAE, providing care to paediatric and from the rise of non-communicable diseases to global pandemics, continue in Abu Dhabi. The site is expected to become operational in early 2021. BHI adult patients. As part of its efforts to further extend its superior home health 20+ promoting a healthy lifestyle to prevent infertility. to present opportunities to address gaps NATIONALITIES was named Healthcare Company of the services in the Northern Emirates, CMRC staff donated approximately in healthcare infrastructure, increase Year by MEED in 2019. Manzil is collaborating with Thumbay 1,248 hours towards health promotion, collaboration between the public and TVM Capital Healthcare promotes Hospital Group to provide a wide range health services and education, with 20 private sectors, and accelerate the diversity through its operations by 3 OUT OF 4 BOARDS of home health services to their hospital events conducted in 2019. development of response systems, applying an equal pay policy and HAVE FEMALE patients. Manzil operates its services in especially in developing regions. Abu Dhabi under the brand name Wahat ensuring women are well-represented in REPRESENTATION Manzil’s staff members donated 8,372 TVM Capital Healthcare’s strategy remains Al Aman Home Healthcare. In January senior leadership and at board level. (20%, 25%, 40%) hours, on top of insurance-covered care, the same and recent events have only to maintain appropriate levels of patient 2020, Manzil divested its interest in underscored the value and importance of care and support. In addition, Manzil Wahat Al Aman, which was acquired by quality healthcare infrastructure. organised 27 community engagement Aster DM Healthcare. events in 2019. Amecath Medical Technologies (Amecath) continued to offer highquality, low-cost, differentiated, and selected intellectual property-protected TVM Capital Healthcare’s approach as an active growth capital investor in catheters and related products. Five the healthcare space brings innovative healthcare products or services and of its products are approved by the international best practice to communities who lacked access to certain US Food and Drug Administration (FDA), which facilitates the company’s specialty healthcare services or products. Witnessing our investments thrive efforts to increase its international economically while playing an important role as a good corporate citizen in presence and market share in the US their local communities is what drives us—to serve our investors, our people, and European markets. The company and the patients and families we care for. To report on our progress in this is ISO 14001:2015 certified and holds regard is well worth the effort and adds significant value to our investments.” the necessary quality and security certificates to export to more than Monika Schlesinger, ESG Officer, TVM Capital Healthcare 55 international markets across five continents. During 2019, Amecath made key appointments to support Sustainable Development Actions within these impact areas The below table summarises the SDGs its expansion strategy in the largest have the potential to contribute to the deemed most relevant to CE-Invests. medical device markets in the world, Goals framework CE-Invests achievement of SDGs. Through this SDG The detailed framework for CE-Invests, including the US and several European We pride ourselves on our unwavering framework, CE-Invests intends to drive consisting of the material SDGs, impact countries. commitment to managing and improving engagement within its portfolio and areas, and KPIs, can be found at the end the ESG aspects of our businesses, leading monitor its performance. of this report. to sustainable growth across our portfolio. Following global leading practices, the four platforms of Crescent Enterprises, Gender equality including CE-Invests, have made a longDecent work and economic growth term commitment to contributing to the achievement of the UN SDGs. The Industry, innovation, and infrastructure company has further stepped up these efforts by creating an SDG framework for Reduced inequalities CE-Invests. Responsible consumption and production The framework outlines the impact areas that are most relevant to the underlying Climate change holdings of this platform. Peace, justice, and strong institutions Crescent Enterprises Annual and Sustainability Report 2019-2020 31 CE-VENTURES Empowering exceptional entrepreneurs by investing in high-growth, value-driven businesses CE-Ventures is the corporate venture capital platform of Crescent Enterprises, focusing on strategic investments in earlyto late-stage high-growth companies and select venture funds globally. The platform was launched in 2017 and initially capitalised with $150 million to be invested by 2020, 50% of which is targeted towards the MENA region. CE-Ventures targets start-ups that offer synergies with Crescent Enterprises’ operations across supply chain management tech, medical tech, enterprise software as a service (SaaS), and niche consumer emerging tech, among others. The platform focuses on wide-ranging emerging technologies pervasive across industry sectors such as artificial intelligence (AI), the Internet of things (IoT), and blockchain. CE-Ventures partners with purpose-driven entrepreneurs and start-ups to catalyse disruptive technologies and generate long-term returns. Tara.AI (Talent acquisition and recruiting Pinterest is a US-based visual discovery automation) is a start-to-finish intelligent Kitopi, short for kitchen operation engine that inspires. It began in 2010 software product builder. Users employ innovations, is a Dubai-based cloud CE-Ventures’ portfolio to date kitchen network that cooks and delivers on simply as an online collection space for on-demand developers, automatically scope people’s passions but quickly evolved into their project, and build task lists on one demand for food brands. Kitopi provides a source of inspiration. More than 335 platform. It bridges the innovation gap with restaurants with access to state-of-the-art million people visit Pinterest monthly to predictive product management powered infrastructure at minimal expenditure, be inspired by its over 100 billion ideas. by AI and millions of projects on the web. expertly trained staff, and industry-focused Its smart platform provides and manages technology, allowing restaurant owners Pinterest’s headquarters are in San pre-screened, on-demand engineering to focus on running their dine-in space, Francisco and it has 2,217 employees in Anomali delivers intelligence-driven Didi Chuxing (DiDi) is the world’s leading FreshtoHome is an e-commerce venture resources, saving users time and money. marketing, and product innovation. offices across the globe. cybersecurity solutions. Private enterprises transportation platform, offering extensive for fresh, chemical-free, and well-priced and public organisations use Anomali to mobile app-based options to over 550 seafood, meat, fruits and vegetables. The CE-Ventures supports and provides harness threat data, information, and million users, including taxi, express, company’s model grants it end-to-end strategic guidance through its intelligence to make effective cybersecurity premier, luxury, hitch, bus, minibus, supply chain control, disrupting traditional representation on Kitopi’s board. decisions that reduce risk and strengthen designated-driving, enterprise, bike, and fresh produce retail supply by removing defences. Anomali customers include more food delivery options. DiDi completes up middlemen. FreshToHome expanded to PRENAV is a US-based company that makes than 350 global organisations, many of the to 30 million daily rides across 400 cities, the UAE in 2019 with the support of commercial drone systems capable of Transcorp is a UAE-based, temperatureGlobal 2000 and Fortune 500, and large providing income to over 21 million drivers. CE-Ventures, which has representation on automated navigation for close inspection controlled, last-mile distribution and government and defence organisations the board of the e-commerce platform. of critical infrastructure, such as bridges, logistics company. It specialises in around the world. dams, power plants, and electrical and cell business-to-business-to-consumer towers. PRENAV’s drones tap deep learning and business-to-business cold chain MARTI is the leading micromobility start-up algorithms, leverage a lidar-enabled distribution and delivery in the UAE’s in Eastern Europe and the MENA region. base station for GPS-denied navigation, seven emirates. It streamlines last-mile This mobile-app based transportation EdCast is an AI-powered knowledge and take high-resolution photos for 3D logistics with end-to-end warehousing, platform offers electric scooters that cater cloud for unified discover, knowledge Furlenco, is an online furniture reconstruction. transporting, and distributing solutions. to last-mile transportation needs in a fun, ColubrisMX, Inc. is a medical device management, and personalised learning. subscription platform headquartered affordable, and eco-friendly way. CE-Ventures supports and provides company that designs and develops nextIts platform is used by Global 2000 in Bengaluru, India and accessible in generation surgical robotic devices that hold strategic guidance through its unparalleled promise for providing novel companies and large government Bengaluru, Mumbai, Pune, Delhi-NCR, Prime Medicine representation on Transcorp’s board. organisations to solve the discovery and Hyderabad, and Chennai. The company surgical treatment. Its surgical robots are curation problems across all external caters to the lifestyle aspirations of Prime Medicine is an emerging biotech capable of completing minimally invasive and internal knowledge sources. Edcast’s contemporary urban Indians in an company operating within the genomics surgeries and endoluminal surgeries. offerings include its Learning Experience unmatched way. It is known for its awardMPL (Mobile Premier League) is an online space, specifically within genome-editing. Platform (LXP), Content Marketplace and winning, in-house furniture designs. gaming and content monetisation platform As a major investor in ColubrisMX, MyGuide’s in-app guides, intelligence, and that offers a plethora of games, quizzes, CE-Ventures has representation on the CE-Ventures has representation on the automation for business software. and more. More than 35 million users board of the company. board of Furlenco. connect with their friends on MPL to play games like fantasy cricket, football, kabaddi, carrom, poker, chess, and many more. Crescent Enterprises Annual and Sustainability Report 2019-2020 33 CE-Ventures: Corporate venture capital serving innovation Trifacta is focused on providing software XCath is a US-based developer of nextJungle Ventures is one of Southeast Asia’s Global venture capital recorded the second-highest year of funding in 2019 at $213 billion across 15,564 deals, following the that helps individuals and organisations generation, steerable robotic microlargest early-stage venture capital firms. It previous year’s record of $226 billion. Similarly, global corporate venture capital (CVC)-backed deals and funding reached record more efficiently explore, transform, and catheters for endovascular conditions, partners with technology-centric start-ups highs at $57.1 billion among over 3,200 deals, although growing at a considerably slower pace as compared to the previous year. combine diverse data for analyses. It aims such as cerebral strokes, offering less in Asia across financial services, retail, CVC participation in the ecosystem has expanded to reach 27% of global VC funding in 2019, as compared to 25% in 2018. In to solve the biggest bottleneck in the data invasive and more flexible medical tools software, travel and hospitality, media, and the MENA region, the evolving ecosystem reported record levels of growth with over $704 million in funding across 564 deals, lifecycle, data wrangling, by making it more as compared to conventional catheters. Its several other sectors. complemented by a growth in CVC over the last few years. The region’s venture capital ecosystem has matured over the years, intuitive and efficient for anyone who micro-catheters have immense potential for culminating in all-time high of 27 exits in 2019. works with data. Today, over 50,000 Data helping patients remotely, especially where CE-Ventures is a limited partner of Jungle Wranglers across 12,000 companies use special surgical procedures are unavailable. Ventures. Funding activities continued during the first quarter of 2020, with global funding reaching $50.7 billion, a marginal decrease of Trifacta’s solutions. 2.8% compared to the same quarter of 2019, with the number of deals staying almost the same. The MENA region witnessed an As a major investor in XCath, CE-Ventures increase in funding levels reaching $277 million during the first quarter of 2020, or a growth of only 2% from the same period has representation on the board of the of last year, accompanied by an increase in median deal size and valuations across stages of start-ups. As COVID-19 spread company. towards the end of the first quarter, deal activity decreased and that is likely to persist for several months following the end of the pandemic. Vezeeta is a global booking powerhouse Rising Tide is a Silicon Valley venture that serves and empowers patients in As global markets reel from the impact of COVID-19, the venture ecosystem is witnessing a mixed impact with demand disruption capital firm with roots in the US, Canada, in certain sectors like tourism and hospitality, and a rapid increase in demand from such sectors as telecommuting software and every step of their healthcare journey Europe, and the Middle East. It invests by tapping into the power of data and remote collaboration tools. CE-Ventures’ portfolio is characterised by diversity in sectors and stages, and is well-positioned to in early-stage software and biotech knowledge. Currently serving more than B Capital group invests B2B start-ups across weather the impacts of COVID-19 and deliver strong returns. ventures. It seeks to team with visionary 4 million patients across 5 countries, with technology-enabled verticals: Consumer companies breaking barriers and creating over 20,000 healthcare providers listed enablement, Fintech and Insurtech, and markets, especially those leveraging on its platform, Vezeeta is transforming HealthcareTech and Bio IT. It invests in technological advancements in big data the healthcare experience of patients, transformative technology start-ups during analytics, computer-aided design, optical by digitally streamlining their healthcare their early expansion stage, typically sensors, mobile applications in vertical journey, and enabling them to search, occurring in Series B or Series C rounds, at markets, and community-connected book, and review the best doctors and which time a company is prepared for rapid networks and services. medical services in just one minute. growth and acceleration. CE-Ventures is a limited partner of B Capital. Wamda Capital was established in 2014 in Vicarious is a US-based developer of AI Dubai as a sector-agnostic venture capital software that ‘thinks and learns like a firm. Its first fund, the $70 million Wamda human’ using the computational principles Capital I, targets earlyand growth-stage of the brain known as the Recursive BOV Capital is a venture capital firm in technology companies operating in Turkey Cortical Network (RCN). RCN aids Vicarious Sri Lanka and Singapore. It aims to help and the MENA region with highly scalable, to improve machine learning, helping Sri Lankan start-ups capture regional and capital-efficient business models. It focuses robots quickly address tasks. Vicarious global opportunities, and its portfolio on minority positions in start-ups and foresees that all robots will eventually be spans start-ups in AI, enterprise, IoT, on providing ongoing, in-depth strategic equipped with its technology. e-commerce, logistics, media, and tourism. support; access to lucrative Gulf markets through unique partnership programmes; and in-depth subject matter expertise in key segments, such as shared economy, e-commerce, and digital content. Volt Lines is a subscription transportation ICONIQ Capital is a private US investment service that serves corporate users in firm serving some of the world’s most CE-Ventures is a limited partner in the fund Istanbul, Turkey. Volt Lines’ subscribers influential families and organisations, Wamda Capital I and is a member of its gain access to unlimited rides on Volt including big names in Silicon Valley. The Limited Partner Advisory Board. Lines’ buses during commuting hours from firm manages direct investments with Monday to Friday, the same way Netflix a focus on technology growth equity, and Spotify subscribers have unlimited venture capital, middle-market buyout, and access to those services through their real estate. It offers companies it invests accounts. in a unique support system through its influential network. The firm has offices in San Francisco, New York, Palo Alto, and Singapore. Crescent Enterprises Annual and Sustainability Report 2019-2020 35 Investing in technology-led disruptions CE-Ventures’ portfolio and impact in 2019 CE-Ventures’ funds portfolio CE-Ventures has invested close to 26 90% 131 In conversation with Tushar Singhvi, $113 million to date in innovative start-ups Director, CE-Ventures and VC funds that are active in the multifaceted realm of disruptive technologies. In TECH COMPANIES AND VC FUNDS GROWTH IN REVENUES OF DIRECT PORTFOLIO COMPANIES MANAGED BY VC 2019, it deployed capital towards five new INVESTMENTS OVER LAST YEAR FUNDS WE ARE INVESTED IN start-ups and funds and three follow-on investments: • Trifacta, invested in as part of a $112.7 MILLION 1.6x 21 On the other hand, we support our global $100 million Series E round. INVESTED CAPITAL TO DATE What is the strategic focus of portfolio in their expansion plans to the MULTIPLE OF INVESTED CAPITAL NEW INVESTMENTS IN SEED-STAGE TO CE-Ventures? MENA region. For example, when we • Mobile Premier League (MPL), invested in GROWTH-STAGE COMPANIES IN 2019 $370 MILLION Our global investment mandate invested two years ago in FreshToHome, as part of a convertible round. $293 MILLION stipulates partnerships with purposean e-commerce platform for fresh produce, • Prime Medicine, invested in as part of a driven entrepreneurs and high-growth we saw the opportunity early on of $115 million Series A round. CAPITAL RAISED BY PORTFOLIO COMPANIES start-ups to catalyse disruptive bringing such technology to our region. POST OUR INITIAL INVESTMENT • Marti, invested in as part of a DEPLOYED CAPITAL IN 2019 technologies and generate long-term Today, FreshToHome is at the frontline of $10 million Series A round. returns. Our investment strategy is essential businesses delivering quality fish, focused on creating value for our meat, and vegetables across the UAE. • Jungle Ventures, invested in as a limited Sustained growth despite To help fuel its growth, CE-Ventures made the packages. With customers becoming stakeholders by: investing in disruptive partner in the Jungle Ventures III fund. macroeconomic challenges a follow-on investment in Kitopi's $60 increasingly receptive and comfortable technologies, enabling the expansion • Follow-on investment in Kitopi’s million Series B funding round, which was with e-commerce, including buying fresh The portfolio companies of CE-Ventures of emerging technologies in the MENA $60 million Series B round. led by Knollwood and Lumia Capital with produce online, the company is wellregion, and venturing into new targeted What is the focus of CE-Ventures in continued their growth trajectory in 2020 and beyond? • Follow-on investment in FreshToHome’s 2019 through geographical expansion, further participation from BECO Capital, positioned to achieve rapid growth over markets and sectors. $20 million Series B round. diversification of service offerings, Gulf Investment Corporation, and Rise the next few years. Transcorp has emerged Recessions and global slowdowns are likely and creation of strategic partnerships. Capital, amongst others. The funding as an industry trend-setter owing to its We work closely with companies we to hit companies of all sizes, some harder • Follow-on investment in Furlenco’s have invested in, looking to create However, as the world came to a virtual round represents a boost of confidence four delivery windows, compared to the than others. Start-ups are particularly $17.5 million Series C round. synergies with our operating businesses resilient due to their agility and digital standstill in the first few months of in Kitopi’s cloud kitchen concept, bolsters industry standard of two delivery windows. and other organisations within our infrastructure which allow them to In 2019, our portfolio of direct investments 2020, the companies were very quick the company’s restaurant partnerships, Making more than 4,000 deliveries daily, portfolio while maintaining sectoral pivot and rapidly adapt to change. With raised $369 million in additional capital since to respond by focusing their plans and ultimately benefits the hundreds of Transcorp is recognised as one of the most and geographic diversity across our sustainable business models and funding our initial investment, attracting global blue on cash preservation, profitability, thousands of customers who continue trusted partners in the food and beverage investments. Besides generating longsupport, start-ups that have built resilience chips and regional VC investors. Besides the and sustaining operations to emerge to enjoy their favourite dishes. Besides industry in the UAE. As a pioneer in the term returns, one of our key focus areas will emerge stronger from the current crisis follow-on rounds we participated in, some of stronger. While we have seen varying expanding its geographical footprint, cold chain last-mile delivery sector in the is investing in high-impact technologyand operate in a less cluttered post-crisis the companies who raised capital are: degrees of impact across our portfolio, the company is investing the funds in UAE, Transcorp has played a key role in led businesses and venture capital funds venture ecosystem. With more rationalised software technology in support of its supporting numerous digital food brands • Vezeeta, raised $40 million Series D round the companies under CE-Ventures that meet societal or environmental valuations, we anticipate compelling efforts to build more efficient operations. in the country. led by new investor Gulf Capital with continue to thrive by capitalising on needs and contribute to the SDGs. opportunities arising from successful startparticipation from existing investor STV. their resilience and cash runway of 12 ups that emerge more resilient post this Driven by consumer demand, Kitopi Vezeeta has embarked on an exponential months and above. crisis. Key domains such as collaboration • Edcast, raised $35 million Series D round recently launched an online store to growth journey growing by sevenfold over software and tools, remote-learning led by Avathon Capital with participation Kitopi has grown exponentially since deliver fresh groceries and other food the last 24 months and reaching 2 million How does CE-Ventures help global environments, telehealth and health-tech from new investor National Grid Partners commencing operations in 2018 from items. The platform includes more than total annual bookings through its platform. companies expand into the MENA in general, among others, are already and other existing investors. 800 food items, and offers delivery within Growth has been driven by its recent region and enable the international one kitchen in the UAE. The company showing positive trajectories. an hour anywhere in Dubai through over expansion into the Saudi market in addition expansion of regional companies? • Tara.AI, raised $10 million Series A round has successfully partnered with more than 100 restaurants and food brands, 4,000 drivers. to growth in its existing markets. With the In the MENA region, which has In 2020, our priority has been to work led by Aspect Ventures with participation whereby Kitopi cooks and delivers food new Series D round raised, the company been both a driver and recipient of closely with our portfolio companies, from Slack Fund and existing seed Transcorp has become one of the largest on their behalf from its 30 kitchens planned to roll out new digital capabilities innovations, the private sector needs to supporting them in navigating the investors Y Combinator and Moment cold chain last-mile delivery companies in across the UAE, Saudi Arabia, Kuwait, of ePharmacy and telehealth across its fuel the next wave of growth. Our goal challenging market conditions. COVID-19 Ventures. the UAE. Growing to become the quality is to create and support businesses the UK, and the US. existing footprint and new markets. Both has had a limited impact on CE-Ventures’ Our investments in VC funds have seen standard for cold chain delivery solutions, that can transcend geographic borders, portfolio companies, which remain resilient offerings have been launched in the realisation in 2019 through exits from their the company successfully increased its company’s existing markets earlier in 2020 and there is no better way to make that with a cash runway of 12 months and Throughout 2019, Kitopi has portfolio companies, primarily in the form capacity by 25% over the past year and and are performing well. With lockdowns happen than through innovation and above. The focus across our portfolio is to continued to develop its platform by of acquisitions, including: improved productivity. It also increased imposed across many countries around the the adoption of new technologies. conserve cash, optimise costs across the providing restaurants with access to • UAE-based Careem, one of Wamda its expertly trained staff, industryits customer base by 33% over the same globe, doctor visits became unfeasible and board and do more with less to ensure Today, the investment landscape is sustainable operations. We are also striving Capital’s portfolio companies, was focused technology, and state-ofperiod, comprising some of the largest online healthcare is seeing higher adoption undergoing fast-paced globalisation, to strengthen the social, economic, and acquired by Uber in a deal worth the-art infrastructure at minimal online and offline retailers across the rates than ever. Consistent with its efforts which is an opportunity not to environmental resilience of our portfolio $3.1 billion, in a cash and stocks capital expenditure. The company UAE. In 2019, Transcorp’s delivery volume to support stay at home safety measures, be missed by Arab start-ups and companies. At the same time, a diversified transaction. has developed an in-house suite of almost doubled, enabling the company Vezeeta also launched its telehealth established businesses alike. Our global investment vision across geographies and applications, collectively known as to provide more quality services in a costconsultations in Egypt, Saudi Arabia and • Two of the portfolio companies of presence enables us to help regional industries remains a key focus area for efficient manner. Jordan. Rising Tide, CogitAI and Voicea, were a smart kitchen operating system – entrepreneurs gain insights from more CE-Ventures. Despite the negative acquired by Sony and Cisco, respectively. ‘SKOS’, optimising all aspects of kitchen mature markets. We aim to partner or disruptions it created, the pandemic will Transcorp’s machine learning-driven • nCinga Innovations, one of the start-ups operations in real-time to maximise invest in the MENA business operations open up new avenues for investment, routing solution enables the company to funded by BOV Capital, was acquired by efficiency. of our portfolio companies, and provide especially in such vital domains as prioritise orders and match them with them with support to launch and HealthTech, EdTech, and cybersecurity, Singapore-based supply chain enabler its drivers who are best placed to deliver expand regionally. to name a few. Zilingo for $15.5 million, in a cash and stock deal. Crescent Enterprises Annual and Sustainability Report 2019-2020 37 FreshToHome has witnessed significant In 2019, CE-Ventures invested in Mobile EdCast acquired Rotterdam-based Recognitions and awards growth during 2019. The company Premier League (MPL). Uniquely Leapest in 2019. Founded in 2017, grew approximately 30% month-onpositioned in the online gaming industry, Leapest hosts three integrated training month, delivering over 45,000 orders MPL possesses the highest customer resource marketplaces on one platform, and processing more than 20 tonnes of retention rates amongst its competitors featuring over 5,000 learning products GATO Award for Emerging Gaming fresh food daily to cater to its 1 million and maintains one of the lowest customer and instructors from all over the world. Startup. Runner Up for Best Gaming customer base across India and the UAE. acquisition cost models. The combination The acquisition aims to accelerate App by Internet and Mobile Association of these two ingredients has enabled the EdCast’s growth in Europe and expand During 2019, CE-Ventures made a of India. company to achieve remarkable growth. the company’s blended learning follow-on investment in FreshToHome's capabilities. $20 million Series B funding round, Driven by low-cost smartphones and which was led by Iron Pillar and also potentially the cheapest data packages in In 2019, CE-Ventures participated included Japanese investor Joe Hirao, the world, the Indian online gaming market in Trifacta's $100 million Series E Secured 7th spot on The Fast Company’s as well as existing investors such as has witnessed a huge surge in growth, with funding round by new investors Telstra 50 Most Innovative Companies in Massar International and Al Nasser revenues expected to grow at a CAGR of Ventures, Energy Impact Partners, NTT Middle-East in 2020. Holdings. Following this funding 22.1% to $1.7 billion by 2023. Docomo Ventures, BMWi Ventures and round, FreshToHome has expanded its ABN AMRO Digital Impact Fund, and operations to Mumbai and Chennai in Additionally, there has been a growing trend existing investors Accel Partners, Cathay India. Additionally, the company also of consumers spending more time on video Innovation, Google, Greylock Partners, launched four experience stores in and mobile games, especially during the Ignition Partners and Infosys. Furlenco has recently become the Customers can furnish their homes Bengaluru and Chennai where customers COVID-19 related lockdowns. MPL is wellRecognised as an Endeavour third-largest furniture company in India. while simultaneously utilising benefits can buy fresh produce physically. positioned to benefit from this market trend Trifacta doubled its revenue growth Entrepreneur by Endeavour UAE in 2019. The company is regarded as a pioneer such as swap or upgrade of packages FreshToHome also launched “FTH Daily” and shift in consumer preferences. and tripled the number of its users. in the furniture subscription concept at will, relocating from one home to to cater to Indian consumers’ daily needs In September 2019, the company targeting millennials who aspire to live another in eight cities, and free deep ColubrisMX accelerated the development for milk, eggs, and bread. launched a new native integration tastefully but are wary of the long-term cleaning services. of its next generation micro-surgical robotic for Snowflake, the data warehouse Cited as India’s Growth Champion commitment associated with purchasing devices throughout 2019. By progressing Supported by CE-Ventures, FreshToHome Starting from Bangalore, Furlenco built for the cloud. With the rise of in 2020 by the Economic Times and decisions or are unable to buy furniture through the developmental stages of expanded its operations into the has expanded to seven more cities in technologies like artificial intelligence Statista. outright due to varying priorities. working prototypes and multiple patent UAE during 2019, marking its first India— Mumbai, Pune, Delhi, Gurgaon, and machine learning, companies international expansion. Since starting applications and awards, the company are moving to scalable and zeroFurlenco has been a frequent winner Noida, Hyderabad, and Chennai, and its operations in the UAE, the company reached a fully developed design freeze on management cloud data warehouses at various Indian design awards has furnished more than 125,000 homes has witnessed significant growth in the both the single-port surgical system and the like Snowflake. Trifacta’s visual and owing to its unique designs that cater so far. The company is now looking Named as one of the ten best number of daily orders and volume of endoluminal surgical system. Post design machine learning guided interface to millennial needs. The company’s to expand outside India. During 2019, independent privately owned start-ups products delivered to its customers. As freeze, the company successfully completed empowers data teams to collaboratively strong customer-focused approach has Furlenco raised $17.5 million in a Series in California by the Tech Tribune. a result, FreshToHome has become one feasibility tests and animal testing. It also explore, clean, structure, and enrich enabled it to have one of the highest C funding round led by CE-Ventures. of the largest fresh produce e-commerce commenced human trials in preparation data at the scale and agility provided customer retention rates amongst Other investors in the funding round platforms in the UAE within a year of for a US Food and Drug Administration by Snowflake. The company has also consumer tech companies. included existing investor, Lightbox, and its launch. The company has a food regulatory approval process. collaborated with IBM to jointly develop new investor, Innovative Quest. processing and storage facility in Umm a new data preparation tool called Ranked as the number one Learning XCath completed the development of Al Quwain, with a production capacity of InfoSphere Advanced Data Preparation. Experience Platform (LXP) by eLearning its electro-active polymer (EAP) steerable 30 tonnes a day, and will be establishing The solution is aimed at bringing big industry analyst Craig Weiss. guidewire system. In 2019, the company another facility in the country. Realising data, machine learning, and artificial received the ISO 14644 cleanroom the huge market opportunity, the intelligence solutions to more users, Pinterest has grown its monthly active environments for medical devices company aims to invest AED 50 million in thereby easing data operations. users (MAUs) by 26% to reach 335 million certification to manufacture the EAP tips. the UAE and Saudi Arabia. The company’s at the end of 2019. The company has XCath also commenced development Marti Technologies, the largest efficient supply chain and direct sourcing 240 billion pins saved across five billion activities on its EAP endovascular robotic micro-mobility company in Turkey, model has helped more than 1,500 boards. The company has scaled its system. continued to offer solutions that cater fishermen and poultry farm owners business to over $1.1 billion in annual to sell fresh produce at a fair price, to last-mile transportation needs in Anomali launched new technology, Anomali revenues, growing by 51% compared while enabling consumers to buy fresh a fun, affordable, and eco-friendly Lens™, which detects and highlights all to 2018. The company’s first quarter produce with zero added chemicals. way. Launched in 2019, Marti's fleet of threats identified within web-based content, performance was consistent with The mindset of the urban population is changing. They have provides up-to-the-minute research and scooters comprises top-of-the-line and expectations through the middle of FreshToHome is utilising cage started questioning the concept of carrying furniture around. locally manufactured models such as the information about them, and informs users March, when it started seeing a sharp aquaculture technique to build highAnatolia 1. tech food farms that offer differentiated Furlenco helps the urban Indian escape the hassle of buying, if any of these threats are already present in deceleration. Despite weakness across their networks. Anomali also expanded its nearly the entire advertising market, returns. The company’s efforts include selling, or relocating the furniture, by giving them awardThe company’s environmentally friendly client base by adding Ubisoft, the Francemicro-mobility offerings have expanded Pinterest's exposure to some of the most Terra Farming, a low-impact fish breeding winning furniture and home decor on rent. The investment, based creator, publisher, and distributor of affected segments, like travel, automotive, practice in existing water resources to include mopeds, which were strategic expertise, and market intelligence provided by interactive entertainment and video games, launched in early 2020. Micro-mobility, and restaurants, has not been significant. spawning 500 tonnes of fish with low energy consumption and minimal CE-Ventures has propelled us on this growth journey. We look as its client. Ubisoft has chosen the Anomali as a transport option, is expected Additionally, as more people have been Altitude™ integrated solutions suite to help staying at home, Pinterest has seen environmental impact, as well as forward to expanding our presence not just in India, but in to witness higher adoption in a post record levels of engagement in Pinners secure its global IT infrastructure. COVID-19 world, as individuals seek Nano Farming, a similar farming practice the MENA region as well.” more individualised and outdoor modes searching for and saving ideas. The that uses purpose-made water tanks of transport. company’s MAUs reached 367 million at offering high production capacity and Ajith Karimpana, Founder and Chief Executive Officer, Furlenco the end of the first quarter of 2020. environmental benefits. Crescent Enterprises Annual and Sustainability Report 2019-2020 39 PRENAV launched a new product In 2019, CE-Ventures invested in Skilling for the future Reducing carbon emissions Furlenco’s investment in refurbishment Focus on customer privacy and enabling the company to pioneer B Capital’s second fund, B Capital Fund II. While millions of jobs are expected Marti’s environmentally friendly microand sustainability initiatives ensures data governance infrastructure inspection using With a global focus, B Capital has built to be lost to AI and robotics, around mobility offerings have expanded to that its assets can last perpetually. The Driven by the concerns of multiple automated drones, LiDAR, and computer domain expertise in its core investment 2.1 million new jobs are also expected include mopeds, which were launched company is also aiming to make 100% stakeholders, customer privacy is at vision, all of which are focused on the areas, solidifying its position to capitalise to be created. These jobs will require in early 2020. As a result of riding Marti, of its packaging recyclable or reusable the top of the agenda for technology global civil engineering inspection and on market trends while investing in and new skills in specialised areas such riders have so far prevented 1,500,000 by 2020. companies. In order to encrypt maintenance market, which is estimated supporting the global expansion of its as computing, mathematics, and kg of CO2 emissions. customers’ sensitive data and safeguard at $2 trillion per year. During the year, best-in-class portfolio companies. The It has already introduced aluminium engineering. EdCast collaborated with their privacy, Furlenco utilises robust the company performed multiple firm brings together entrepreneurs in boxes for televisions, and polypropylene Mastercard to deliver resources to Towards a circular economy security solutions and complies with successful demonstrations and proofs need of resources and large corporates cases for refrigerators and washing enable governments and enterprises Furlenco continuously endeavours all applicable privacy laws. It takes of concept for both existing and new seeking to innovate and benefit from machines, which can be used multiple to develop the workforce of the future to incorporate the principles of the reasonable technical and organisational customers, including in Japan and emerging technologies. B Capital times, thus reducing the waste and close skills gaps around the world. circular economy into its operations. precautions to prevent the loss, Canada. has made key investments in cybergenerated from packing. It is also As part of this strategic partnership, Its business model allows it to recycle misuse, or alteration of any personal security firm Synack and FinTech firms piloting the use of heavy duty nylon bags EdCast will contribute its platforms 100% of the furniture that it offers to information. The company delivered Didi Chuxing diversified its service Khatabook and Plastiq, and continues for mattresses to replace shrink wraps. and technology to Mastercard’s incustomers. With a focus on refurbishing awareness sessions in 2019 and shared offerings following a company-wide to invest in healthcare, financial services As a result of these initiatives, Furlenco development portable benefits solutions and reusing the furniture, the company good practices with employees handling reorganisation to improve safety and and insurance, as well as industrial and has reduced the monthly wastage of to deliver a more inclusive and resilient has employed the 6R framework customer data to ensure adherence to efficiency. The new products include consumer-enablement businesses. its onetime use packaging material by economy where all segments of society (Refresh, Revive, Replace, Repair, Reuse, its privacy policy. wealth management, credit and lending, 80%, and experienced a 30% reduction prosper. and Recycle). Using a state-of-the-art and crowdfunding for critical illnesses, Accelerating positive impact in packaging expenditure. Furthermore, all aimed at short-term temporary refurbishment facility, assets returned with the reusable packaging being through innovation Commitment to ethical workers. Furthermore, the company by customers are not only restored, but sturdier, there has been a significant The portfolio companies of CE-Ventures business practices can also be transformed into different signed an agreement with Symphony drop in customer complaints with strive to make the world a better place Vezeeta is committed to operating designs. Investment and other Middle Eastern respect to damages. through their products and services, ethically and with integrity, and investment institutions to establish a technology, and innovation. Some promotes a zero-tolerance culture partnership for the development of of the impact areas include direct against bribery, corruption, theft, an internet business ecosystem in the and indirect employment generation and any other forms of financial Middle East. across their supply chains, skilling of misconduct or impropriety. To prevent With the coronavirus outbreak, Didi’s employees, creating value for local breaches, it periodically communicates services were banned from 50 cities and businesses, waste management, and its expectations and related policies counties and Daily Active Users (DAUs) enhancing quality of life. Examples of to its employees and other relevant on Didi’s app dropped by more than the positive impact created by some of stakeholders. During the year in review, 50%. While all sectors of society are our portfolio companies are highlighted 300 employees were informed about gradually resuming work and production in this section. the company’s policies, with the aim in China, the impact of the pandemic of encouraging a culture of honesty, lingers. In order to mitigate the loss of Boosting job creation openness, integrity, and vigilance. demand in ride-hailing services, Didi The portfolio companies of CE-Ventures launched delivery services in 21 Chinese are contributing to the development Ensuring health and safety cities and commenced deliveries for of a skilled workforce that supports Being a foodtech start-up, maintaining groceries and coffee. them in their day-to-day work and high standards of food safety is a long-term growth. In addition to the pre-requisite for Kitopi. It ensures Jungle Ventures (JV) continued to invest existing business model of sourcing that all preparations satisfy relevant Sustainable Development Goals The framework identifies the SDGs The detailed framework for CE-Ventures, in and help build tech category leaders meat and seafood from local fishermen, food safety standards such as ISO and framework CE-Ventures most relevant to this platform as well as consisting of the material SDGs, impact from Asia. The firm’s investment strategy FreshtoHome has initiated aquaculture HACCP (hazard analysis and critical CE-Ventures’ commitment to managing current impact areas. areas, and KPIs, can be found at the end is focused on three themes: consumer at a large scale. In this model, fishermen control points), as well as consumer the ESG aspects of its business activities of this report. brands for the digitally native, platforms are inducted to manage nano farms, The below table summarises the SDGs taste buds. Apart from its focus on food is integral to Crescent Enterprises’ that enable the digital transformation with the company providing training deemed most relevant to CE-Ventures. safety and customer health, Kitopi has sustainable business growth plan. In of SMEs, and global technology leaders to farmers in new technologies, along also established Standard Operating line with leading global practices, the born in Asia. JV deeply values its with fish seed and feed. FreshtoHome Procedures for ensuring the health four platforms of Crescent Enterprises, Good health and well-being operating partners which can truly help has been instrumental in increasing the and safety of its staff, and provides including CE-Ventures, have made a its portfolio companies from product income of 1,500 fishermen along the training on a periodic basis. Fire safety long-term commitment to contributing Gender equality and sales strategy development to Indian coastline. In addition, through training is also provided and an annual to the achievement of the UN SDGs. The capital raising efforts. The firm has its expansion into the MENA region, the maintenance contract is in place to company has further stepped up these Decent work and economic growth built a strong relationship with growth company plans to invest AED 50 million maintain all fire safety systems. Mock efforts by creating an SDG framework equity investors by attracting some of over the coming two years, creating drills are conducted to assess readiness for CE-Ventures. Industry, innovation, and infrastructure the largest funds as investors in its fund. more than 1,000 jobs. of staff in the event of an emergency. Prominent investments include Dathena, Reduced inequalities Waresix and LivSpace. Responsible consumption and production Peace, justice, and strong institutions Crescent Enterprises Annual and Sustainability Report 2019-2020 41 CE-Creates’ businesses CE-CREATES In the 16th century, much ION is a UAE-based Shamal has developed BreakBread is a digital of the social, creative, and sustainable transport innovative workwear that marketplace and a hub for political activity in the company established in 2018, combats the extreme heat curated home-based food Creating, nurturing, and scaling businesses built Arab world took place in coffeehouses. Coffeehouses formed as a joint venture between CE-Creates and the of the region. By equipping outdoor workers with experiences, with a mission to connect and unite talented on strong foundations of social purpose from Constantinople to Cairo UAE's leading environmental the gear to withstand cooks and food lovers attracted poets, politicians, management company, the hot climate, Shamal around a central idea: ‘food musicians, and storytellers. Bee’ah. Through innovations aims to enhance worker is best experienced homeCE-Creates is Crescent Enterprises’ internal business incubation platform, which develops early-stage concepts into Launched in 2017, in green mobility, ION is comfort, which in turn cooked and shared’. The Kava & Chai strives to promoting economic and boosts performance and platform connects passionate socially relevant, economically viable, and scalable ventures aimed at spawning the next generation of operating businesses recapture the congregation environmental sustainability, ensures worker safety cooks to adventurous foodies for the company. The platform is a manifestation of Crescent Enterprises’ focus on fostering entrepreneurship, innovation, of people of diverse cultures and driving on-demand and health. The improved around the city to celebrate and generating positive sustainable impact. Since its inception, the platform has launched four ventures in the areas of the simple joy and comfort of for the exchange of ideas availability in multi-modal, functionality made possible food and beverages, sustainable mobility, industrial workwear, and food technology. and opinions amid the inter-urban, transport by Shamal’s specialised a shared home-cooked meal. age-old rituals of drinking networks. Consistently workwear increases worker Its mission is to become coffee and tea. The specialty ensuring high quality productivity, directly a trusted hub for quality, coffeehouse now operates a and product safety in all influencing business relevant, contemporary, and Approach to venture building total of five outlets in the UAE applications, ION is creating profitability. authentic homemade dining CE-Creates takes every venture through four well-defined phases of development to ensure their viability and across Dubai and Sharjah. a zero-emissions transport experiences. sustainability as businesses. infrastructure in the MENA region and beyond. Four phases of development Concept Business plan Incubation Growth development development • Product/service definition • Market research • Seed funding • Series A-C financing • Market size and potential • Product/service design • Management team • Expansion (franchising, acquisitions, greenfield) • High-level financial • Financial modelling • Product/service summary development • Strategic partnerships • Go-to-market roadmap • Business plan and • Pilot/prototype action plan • Legal setup Crescent Enterprises Annual and Sustainability Report 2019-2020 43 CE-Creates: Building a new Kava & Chai focused Sustainability focus areas of coffee suppliers of Kava & Chai wave of businesses on establishing brand Fair trade practices Traceability Quality Small and medium enterprises (SMEs) In conversation with Samer Choucair, positioning play an instrumental role in creating Director, CE-Creates 2019 was a momentous year for new jobs, which are highly needed in Kava & Chai. In addition to launching the MENA region, where 20 million Fair wages, benefits, Traceability of coffee bean Meeting the standards two new branches, the speciality and price transparency from farm to counter for high quality young people are expected to join coffeehouse focused on establishing (quality-based price the workforce by 2025. In the UAE, its brand and expanding its offerings. It premium) for farmers the entrepreneurial ecosystem has launched an online ordering service to seen significant growth in the number cater to growing customer preference of start-ups, both homegrown and How is CE-Creates cementing embarked on a purposeful journey to and strove to enhance its customer international, representing more than its market position in line with address complex niche problems that the UAE’s government vision for exist in our communities. For instance, experience; coffee and tea lovers can 94% of the total number of companies now use a chatbot to pre-order through entrepreneurship? through its upcoming line of high-tech operating in the country. These Instagram, WhatsApp, and Facebook Impact areas With a young population full of potential, industrial clothing, CE-Creates’ start-up, companies not only employ over 86% of from Kava & Chai outlets. the UAE represents a technology Shamal, is set to enhance the safety the private sector workforce, but they innovation and entrepreneurship hub. and comfort of outdoor workers in the also help propel the diversification of The homegrown brand was also The government is focused on nurturing GCC, where temperatures can exceed the national economy away from oil, 45 degrees Celsius during summer. featured in the Best Café category of an entrepreneurial mindset in citizens With an unequivocal focus on customer health, Kava & Chai is enabling the country to become a hub CE-Creates’ green mobility start-up, BBC Good Food Middle East Magazine and residents alike, creating the right committed to providing nutritious menu options. It regularly reviews for entrepreneurship. ION, aims to promote sustainable Awards. These are the only awards in ecosystem for start-ups through a mix and improves its food and beverage offerings to cater to the evolving transport solutions in the region to the region offering recognition solely and divergent needs of customers. Some of the healthier options In 2019, CE-Creates continued with its of legislation and commercial principles. CE-Creates contributes to building the help curb carbon emissions in the based on customers' votes across offered by Kava & Chai include vegetarian and vegan items, various two-pronged approach to designing sector, which account for 30% of total different categories. entrepreneurship ecosystem in the salads, and plant milk. It is also working on adding more gluten-free and incubating new ventures as well as emissions worldwide. country by designing and incubating and low-sugar products to its menu. ensuring the growth of its incubated Currently, Kava & Chai assesses its businesses aimed at addressing specific businesses through investments, national and international suppliers challenges that exist in our region. strategic guidance, and partnerships. Its of roasted coffee and tea on their Kava & Chai continues to participate in community events across the We believe that good ideas can come What is the strategic focus of businesses in the sustainable mobility from anyone and anywhere. Hence, environmental and social performance, UAE and provide a platform where people from all walks of life gather to and food and beverage sectors have CE-Creates’ businesses in 2020? exchange ideas and share their experiences. In 2019, it participated in CE-Creates continues to support and as well as efforts to make their supply achieved multiple milestones through Businesses across the world are facing chain sustainable. entrepreneurship-focused events, family events, and health awareness develop the entrepreneurial culture launching new services and expanding the economic blow of lockdowns. In events. Among these, Kava & Chai held a fundraising campaign in support within Crescent Enterprises and the their footprint. Later in the year, a bid to ensure their survival, startof Al Jalila Foundation’s breast cancer awareness and research initiatives UAE. Today, we are beginning to reap CE-Creates launched its third business, ups like CE-Creates’ businesses are and donated AED 5 for every sale of its festive drinks from the rewards of this culture, with three Shamal, which specialises in industrial developing strategies to become 1 December to 10 January across all of its five outlets. It also supported operating businesses and more under clothing. more resilient and cost-efficient. patients with complex and rare medical conditions by participating in development. Learnings from the current crisis have Friends of Cancer Patients’ Relay for Life in November 2019, Special Needs In 2020, the COVID-19 pandemic empowered businesses by providing Future Development Center’s Family Fun Fair, and High Hopes Paediatric has stifled the global economy. them with the experience to devise Therapy Center’s Rare Disease Day, both held in February 2020. Governments around the world have To what extent is social purpose built strategies that incorporate resilience taken drastic measures to contain the into CE-Creates’ brands, and how at every level. Such strong foundations does your purposeful business model are key to survival and long-term In order to lower the consumption of paper and plastic in its stores, spread of the virus, disrupting not only tackle some of today’s most pressing prosperity. In 2020, CE-Creates will Kava & Chai has eliminated single-use straws, and introduced large enterprises but also millions of social challenges? focus on supporting its businesses eco-friendly and biodegradable cups, lids, and packaging. Its cups, SMEs. These unprecedented market including the linings, are made of an eco-friendly material, making while incorporating ESG principles into conditions have pushed many startWhile developing early-stage their business strategies. We are also them 100% compostable. During 2019, 90% of the consumables ups to adopt survival and business concepts into economically viable formalising our roadmaps and targets Kava & Chai used were made of recyclable, biodegradable, and continuity measures, such as costand scalable businesses, CE-Creates to further integrate the SDGs into our eco-friendly materials. cutting, to sustain their businesses strives to ensure each one of its long-term strategy, gauge our progress, and maintain their operations. As we businesses generates inclusive social and enhance our performance and navigate these uncertain times, CEimpact. By bringing to life the next Kava & Chai understands its responsibility to empower farmers and operational efficiencies. Creates is focused on building resilience generation of operating businesses for help overcome the challenges facing coffee and tea communities. It is Crescent Enterprises, CE-Creates has committed to buying 100% sustainable and ethically sourced coffee and ensuring sustainable growth. One of our key priorities is managing risks and and tea. To achieve this, Kava & Chai has initiated mapping of its utilising opportunities across our value entire supply chain and plans to complete this by the end of 2020. It also aims to develop onboarding and audit protocols for its suppliers. chain, from ethical sourcing of materials In addition, it will collaborate with relevant stakeholders to promote and waste management, to customer sustainable coffee production and sourcing. health, allowing us to prepare for the new normal post-COVID-19. Crescent Enterprises Annual and Sustainability Report 2019-2020 45 ION propelled green ION’s journey so far ION’s investment in electric Partnership towards vehicle charging stations autonomous driving systems mobility in the UAE With the introduction of policies ION partnered with NAVYA, a leading After a successful pilot programme 2016 2017 2018 2019 supporting electric mobility by the company in autonomous driving in Dubai with the ride-hailing service government, there has been a rise in systems and electric vehicles, to operate Careem, ION was established during an the number of electric vehicles (EV) in the company’s electric and autonomous inauguration ceremony in November the UAE. The roll-out of EV charging shuttles as well as promote its vehicles 2019. It deploys smart, cost-effective, CE-Creates Formalised Launched ION launched incubated idea operations in Dubai operations in infrastructure is critical for EVs to be and related activities in the UAE. As an and carbon-neutral personal and partnership with of sustainable through ride-hailing Sharjah and adopted at a larger scale. official distributor, ION will engage with industrial mobility solutions through transport Bee’ah application Careem Masdar, Abu Dhabi NAVYA’s existing and new customers platforms such as ride-hailing ION has partnered with the Sharjah on sales and after-sales support. applications, and corporate and City Municipality and Sharjah Electricity NAVYA’s AUTONOM SHUTTLE fleet, government fleets. The green mobility and Water Authority to supply, install, which has been operating in Masdar solutions provider is set to cater to and operate public EV charging stations City since 2018, offers firstand last-mile the growing demand for sustainable in a phased manner across the city of transportation solutions, with optimised transport operations across the UAE and Sharjah. This initiative will support the navigation and safety features. It also the MENA region. ION has so far set up UAE Vision 2021, which aims to achieve uses advanced guidance and detection operations in Masdar Free Zone in Abu sustainability through increased air systems and is enhanced with deep Dhabi, Dubai, and Sharjah. quality and greater reliance on clean learning technology. ION is imparting energy. rigorous training to its technicians to provide regular and dependable service for the AUTONOM SHUTTLE. In 2008, Masdar City embarked on a journey to become the world’s most sustainable city. Today, the city is a hub for innovation, and research and development, advancing real-world solutions in energy and water efficiency, mobility, and artificial intelligence. Our partnership with ION to provide green mobility solutions is aligned with our vision to design a low-carbon and low-waste space. This will not only encourage people to utilise such sustainable modes of transport, but it will also help advance the UAE’s national ambitions in sustainable development.” Stephen Severance, Head of Programme Management and Investments, Masdar City Impact areas Road safety is a top concern for ION. To provide Apart from serving individual commuters, a safe and reliable transportation experience the company has supported other to passengers, it has equipped its mobility organisations and events. It was appointed solutions with advanced driving systems and as a transport partner for iconic events in safety reinforcements. It trains its drivers on the UAE, including the World Future Energy road safety practices and parameters, and Summit 2019 and the 24th World Energy conducts routine assessments to promote Congress 2019 in Abu Dhabi. consistency in their performance. The adoption of EVs is critical to mitigate climate change and meet the Paris Agreement targets to limit global warming to well below 2°C. ION aims to develop the EV market in the UAE and beyond by offering green transportation options to the public and installing charging stations. These vehicles are responsible for considerably lower emissions over their lifetime as compared to conventional vehicles, contributing to the improvement of overall air quality. Furthermore, their batteries can be recycled or repurposed for non-automotive use once the vehicles have reached the end of their useful life. Crescent Enterprises Annual and Sustainability Report 2019-2020 47 Shamal launched to However, much of the workwear All of the elements of Shamal’s BreakBread piloted online dining available has not been specifically products, including fabrics and design, marketplace enhance safety and designed for the regional climate, where were rigorously tested in a process BreakBread prepared for its public productivity of workers summer temperatures are often well involving six stages of prototype tests. launch all through 2019. The fourth CE-Creates launched Shamal, the next above 40°C. Such temperatures increase Mannequin simulations and onsite trials business of CE-Creates allows hosts to generation of specialised industrial occupational risks and can lead to in challenging conditions were also post dining events online and receive clothing in November 2019. Named exhaustion and heat strokes. The need conducted to monitor the performance bookings from interested diners. after the powerful northwesterly wind to develop clothing designed for the of the clothing. Results reported include Cooks can then host guests over a that blows over the Gulf region during challenging weather conditions of the significant reduction in garment weight food experience of their creation in summer, Shamal aims to revolutionise region is what inspired this business. In and improved thermal comfort, making their homes at a pre-scheduled time. workwear for construction, municipal, doing so, Shamal aims to enhance the the product superior to any previous The pilot phase, which took place and other outdoor workers who are safety and productivity of workers. industrial garment worn. The garments in late 2019, witnessed eight dining exposed to the extreme hot weather were also evaluated by a consortium of experiences that attracted 50 attendees. of the region. In order to design and develop its regional and international construction The feedback from these participants products, Shamal took several factors companies. are being used to improve features of The Gulf region, especially the UAE, into consideration, including heat the platform before its official launch. has witnessed rapid infrastructure dissipation, durability, and comfort. development and is home to large Traditional concerns including construction projects. shrinkage, reflective stripe, and hardware disintegration and tear were also addressed. Sustainable Development Goals Impact areas Good health and well-being framework CE-Creates Sustainability is part of the ethos of Gender equality Crescent Enterprises. In line with the company’s approach, CE-Creates’ Clean water and sanitistion businesses are focused on bolstering their environmental and social impact. Affordable and clean energy To support the UN SDGs, CE-Creates During its early stages of product Decent work and economic growth has developed a framework for its development, Shamal procures the incubated ventures, identifying the exact quantities of raw materials Industry, innovation, and infrastructure SDGs most relevant to the platform, required to produce its sales focusing on current impact areas and Reduced inequalities orders, minimising material waste. future opportunities, with targets being The company is also identifying developed to track performance. The Sustainable cities and communities and implementing initiatives to opposite table summarises the SDGs reduce waste generation during deemed most relevant to CE-Creates. Responsible consumption and production the manufacturing, finishing, The detailed framework for CE-Creates, and marketing of its signature consisting of the material SDGs, impact Climate change workwear as it moves to mass areas, and KPIs, can be found at the end production. Peace, justice, and strong institutions of this report. Partnerships for the goals Current impact areas Future opportunities Shamal will also commence mapping its supply chain to identify the key players and develop standards for pre-screening of suppliers. Crescent Enterprises Annual and Sustainability Report 2019-2020 49 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE Governance framework Crescent Enterprises’ governance structure aims to achieve a comprehensive corporate governance framework that the company lives by. The company's operations are steered by the Crescent Group Board of Directors, which monitors and reviews the governance practices of its subsidiaries. The direct management of the day-to-day activities of Crescent Enterprises rests with four committees and the Executive Board, each assigned a respective level of authority as defined by the company. The committees ensure continuous monitoring, review, and implementation of its policies and programmes. Governance structure of Crescent Enterprises Family businesses are the backbone of the region’s economy, generating a considerable portion of the economic value chain and creating Crescent Group Board of Directors employment opportunities. Adopting sound governance frameworks is critical for the sustainability of corporate best practices and proven Crescent Enterprises' Executive Board processes across generations of leaders, and for ensuring the long-term prospects of the company. Crescent Enterprises implements robust models of corporate governance and is a strong advocate for greater transparency and accountability. However, its systems and practices are not cast in stone. The company evaluates its corporate governance The Executive Board exercises strategic effectiveness on a regular basis to adapt and remain relevant.” oversight and decision-making regarding Crescent Enterprises and the operations of its Sabyasachi Chatterjee, Senior Legal Counsel, Crescent Enterprises four platforms by performing strategic reviews, assessing capital resources, and approving key investments and operational decisions. Crescent Enterprises has always Consistent with its commitment to Through our work, we aim to contribute placed emphasis on progressively conducting business responsibly and to the following SDGs: enhancing its corporate governance creating lasting value for its stakeholders, standards and processes as it recognises Crescent Enterprises has established the intrinsic value such mechanisms guidelines and policies that are bring not only to the business, but also to reviewed periodically and benchmarked society at large. The company nurtures against the leading best practices Investment Sustainability Human Resources Corporate Citizenship and maintains a culture of unyielding globally. The company’s unwavering Committee Committee Committee Committee integrity where every employee is commitment to ensuring business held accountable and responsible for accountability and transparency is upholding its ethical values in all its consistently demonstrated by stringent dealings and operations. implementation of these guidelines and policies across its operations. The The Investment Committee The Sustainability Committee The Human Resources The Corporate Citizenship company’s financial reporting is audited reviews and approves develops and oversees the Committee manages all Committee formulates by PwC, an independent registered certain investments, implementation of Crescent employee-related policy Crescent Enterprises’ public accounting firm. divestments, joint ventures, Enterprises’ sustainability matters in alignment with corporate citizenship strategy. and other strategic strategy, monitors the Crescent Enterprises’ pledge It develops and monitors partnerships, and reports to progress of that strategy, to the UN Global Compact the implementation of a the Executive Board. and drives awareness and to provide safe and fair disciplined approach to the uptake of sustainability working conditions and achieving the corporate at all levels of the the United Nations Women citizenship goals an objectives. organisation. Empowerment Principles. The committee regularly Ensuring full compliance monitors the progress with the company’s Code of of the ongoing initiatives Conduct is a primary role of and assesses the overall this committee. performance and impact. Crescent Enterprises Annual and Sustainability Report 2019-2020 51 EXECUTIVE BOARD Badr Jafar Neeraj Agrawal V. Ravi Kumar Tushar Singhvi Chief Executive Officer Executive Director Executive Director Director, CE-Ventures Key leadership positions: Key leadership positions: Key leadership positions: Key leadership positions: • Managing Director, Crescent Group • Chief Financial Officer and Board Member, Crescent Group •B oard Member, Crescent Group • Member of the Executive Board, Crescent Enterprises • President, Crescent Petroleum • Member of the Executive Board, Crescent Enterprises •M ember of the Executive Board, Crescent Enterprises • Board Member, Growthgate Capital • Chairman, Pearl Petroleum • Executive Board Member and Chair of Investment •C hief Corporate Officer, Crescent Petroleum • Fund Advisory Board Member, TVM Capital Healthcare Partners • Chairman, Gulftainer Committee, Gulftainer Group • Limited Partners’ Board Member, Siraj Palestine Fund • Board Member, Uruk Engineering & Contracting Ravi Kumar is the Executive Director responsible for managing • Board Member, FreshtoHome Badr is CEO of Crescent Enterprises and President of Crescent Petroleum. • Board Member, XCath, Inc. Crescent Enterprises’ global office operations with effective shared • Board Member, Kitopi He also serves as Chairman of Gulftainer, the largest privately owned container • Board Member, ColubrisMX, Inc. business services, including accounting, business processes • Board Member, Transcorp International port operator in the world, and Chairman of Pearl Petroleum, a partnership and systems, human resources and administration, information • Board Member, Furlenco between Crescent Petroleum, Dana Gas, OMV of Austria, MOL of Hungary, Neeraj Agrawal oversees Crescent Enterprises’ operations technology, insurance, and supply chain management. and RWEST of Germany. and investments. He has supported the company’s evolution Most notably, Ravi is responsible for developing the strategic Tushar Singhvi leads corporate development and investments activities In 2010, Badr founded the Pearl Initiative, a non-profit organisation committed and transformation throughout its years of expansion landscape of the company’s SAP ERP systems and ensuring that and is responsible for evaluating and executing new investment to promoting a corporate culture of transparency and accountability across the by fostering new investments and nurturing its various the organisation is nimble and responsive to business challenges opportunities on behalf of Crescent Enterprises. He also manages the Gulf Region of the Middle East, in cooperation with the United Nations Office established businesses within the fields of ports and logistics, and market dynamics. He is also in charge of providing strategic portfolio companies through strategy and corporate development. for Partnerships. He is a member of the United Nations Secretary General’s healthcare, and power plant engineering and construction, direction and management oversight for the company’s operations He has been instrumental in cultivating corporate prospects and in High-Level Panel on Humanitarian Financing, a member of the UNESCO and, most recently, the tech-related investments. and investments, and is equally involved in business development contributing to the development of Crescent Enterprises’ strategic International Commission on the Futures of Education, and a member of the activities. and operational plans within the ports and logistics, business aviation, As a member of the Executive Board of Gulftainer, Board of Overseers of the International Rescue Committee (IRC). healthcare, private equity, and venture capital verticals. Crescent Enterprises’ ports and logistics subsidiary, Neeraj Ravi initiated the development of the framework for defining Consistent with his interest in promoting social entrepreneurship in the MENA provides oversight and support in all the company’s major Crescent Enterprises’ sustainability strategy and objectives. He Tushar has over 17 years of global experience in investment Region, Badr co-founded the Arab World Social Entrepreneurship Program (ASEP) decisions and policies, playing a key role in its international did so with a view to drive change and ensure that environmental management, corporate development, strategy development, and with Ashoka in 2014, and he is a member of the Synergos Arab World Social expansion, diversification, and related financing activities. health, social well-being, and economic performance become project management in sectors including power, logistics, oil and gas, Innovators (AWSI) Board of Governors. He serves on the Boards of Advisors of More recently, he played an instrumental role in the execution embedded in the organisation’s strategy, operations, and reporting. healthcare, and infrastructure development. He has worked on a range Sharjah Entrepreneurship Centre (Sheraa) and Gaza Sky Geeks, and is Chairman of Gulftainer’s $600 million investment in Port of Wilmington, of transactions including mergers and acquisitions, capital raising, Delaware. As a Board Member of Crescent Group, Ravi oversees all business of Endeavor UAE, a network supporting high-impact entrepreneurship. divestitures, and debt restructuring. services functions, playing a key role in establishing a robust Badr is actively engaged with a number of higher education institutions both In his capacity as a Board Member of Crescent Group, corporate governance framework for the Group and its key Before joining Crescent Enterprises, Tushar worked with KPMG locally and internationally, serving as a member of the Advisory Board of Neeraj is responsible for the finance function and building affiliated companies. Corporate Finance in Dubai and, earlier, with an investment banking Cambridge Judge Business School, the International Advisory Council of the relationships with the investment and banking communities. firm in London, UK. Prior to that, he spent five years in the power and Prior to joining Crescent Petroleum in 1991, Ravi worked in the American University of Beirut, and the Business Advisory Council of the American infrastructure industries in Asia and Africa. His numerous achievements throughout his 32 years with audit divisions of Ernst & Young in the UAE and A. F. Ferguson & Co. University of Sharjah. He is the Founding Patron of the Centre for Strategic the Group include securing several joint ventures within the in India. Tushar holds a Bachelor of Engineering degree from the University of Philanthropy based at the Cambridge Judge Business School, which is dedicated international energy and port industries and leading the Pune, India. He also holds a Master of Business Administration with to enhancing the impact of strategic philanthropy both within and from the development of operations across North America and Middle Ravi holds a Business of Commerce (Honours) degree from the distinction from the University of Oxford. world’s fastest-growing economies. He also serves on the advisory board of the East and North Africa region. Neeraj was also instrumental in University of Delhi. He is a Chartered Accountant and member of the Chartered Institute of Management Accountants, UK, and the Tushar is a member of the World Economic Forum’s Global Future US-based Milken Institute for Strategic Philanthropy. the successful formation and capitalisation of Dana Gas PJSC Institute of Cost Accountants, India. Council on Digital Economy and New Value Creation, among other As an ardent believer in the essential role of the arts in innovation economies, (including the private placement and $80 billion IPO), the industry networks. Badr founded the non-profit Middle East Theatre Academy to encourage youth $1.2 billion acquisition and financing of TSX-listed Centurion in the region to express their talents through writing, directing, producing and Energy International Inc., and the Middle East’s first forwardacting. He also co-founded the Global Gumbo Group with renowned producer looking accelerated $1 billion sukuk issued by an associate Quincy Jones to bridge cross-cultural divides through entertainment. He is a company in 2007, and which also received the 2013 member of the Guggenheim Middle Eastern Circle, the Artistic Director’s Circle ‘Restructuring Deal of the Year’ award in New York. of The Old Vic Theatre Trust, and The Kennedy Centre’s Centennial Circle. In Prior to joining Crescent Petroleum, Neeraj worked as a 2014, Badr was awarded the Gold Medal in the Arts by the Kennedy Center management consultant for PricewaterhouseCoopers and International Committee on the Arts for his work to bridge cultures through in the audit and management consultancy division of music and theatre. Ernst & Young. Badr has been a member of the Young Presidents’ Organization (YPO) since 2005 Neeraj is a member of the Indian Business and Professional and served as Chair of the YPO Emirates Chapter. He was recognised as a Young Council and the Institute of Chartered Accountants of India Global Leader by the World Economic Forum in 2011, is Co-Chair of the WEF and supports voluntary work and philanthropy through Family Business Community, and is a member of the WEF Stewardship Board on charities in India and the UAE. the Digital Economy and New Value Creation, the WEF Stewardship Board on the New Economy and Society, and the Partnering Against Corruption Initiative (PACI). Badr attended Eton College and earned a Master of Engineering degree from the University of Cambridge. He also holds a Master of Studies from the University of Cambridge's Judge Business School. Crescent Enterprises Annual and Sustainability Report 2019-2020 53 SENIOR LEADERSHIP Samer Choucair Ghada Abdelkader Ananth Achanta Sabyasachi Chatterjee Dimitris Tsouroplis Ola Al Haj Hussin Director, CE-Creates VP, CE-Invests Head of Accounts Senior Legal Counsel Human Resources Director Manager, Corporate Citizenship Samer leads CE-Creates, the platform of Key leadership positions: Ananth Achanta is responsible for the Sabyasachi Chatterjee is a Senior Legal Dimitris Tsouroplis joined Crescent Enterprises With two decades of experience in managing, Crescent Enterprises that endeavours to • Board Member, Transcorp International maintenance of accounts and financial Counsel at Crescent Enterprises and is in February 2020 as Human Resources strategising, and fundraising for development develop businesses that address economic, reporting, and has participated in creating responsible for managing and providing Director, in charge of the company’s human projects, Ola is responsible for developing and social, and environmental challenges. This Ghada Abdelkader is responsible for the corporate governance framework for support on a diverse range of legal matters capital development. managing Crescent Enterprises’ corporate reflects the company’s belief that such a triple monitoring the existing Crescent Enterprises' the company. across Crescent Enterprises and its business citizenship portfolio and its strategy. She also Prior to that, he has held senior managerial bottom line approach to doing business is the portfolio companies within the ports and units, as well as its subsidiaries and affiliates. oversees the development of the company’s Ananth has over 15 years of global experience positions in HR for several multinational most effective way to generate shared value logistics, business aviation, technology, philanthropic partnerships with regional and in investment analysis and reporting. Prior Sabyasachi has worked in the UAE, Singapore, companies including BP, The Coca-Cola for all stakeholders. and private equity sectors as well as the global organisations. to joining Crescent Group, he worked with and India, and has extensive experience Company, Vodafone, and the Libra Group. evaluation, structuring, execution, and Samer comes from an entrepreneurial Damas Jewellery Group in Dubai, UAE, in the in cross-border corporate and commercial He has wide-ranging international experience Ola has more than 19 years of expertise in post-acquisition management of new background with more than 20 years of Investments and Partnership Management transactions and dispute resolution matters, throughout Europe, the Balkans and the humanitarian programme development, investments. experience in the start-up space in various division, where his responsibilities included including mergers and acquisitions (M&A), Middle East, with particular expertise in monitoring, and management with industries, from entertainment to F&B, Ghada has 14 years of experience in monitoring the financial performance joint ventures, venture capital, and private rewards, resourcing, talent management, corporations and non-profit foundations in the e-commerce, media, and healthcare across investment banking, corporate finance, of various businesses such as jewellery equity funding. and M&A/restructurings considerations. Middle East. She has spearheaded manifold Canada, the UAE, Saudi Arabia, Oman, and and financial services consulting across the manufacturing and retail units based in Italy initiatives in the culture, education, and social Prior to joining Crescent Enterprises, Dimitris began his career with BP Exploration Singapore. MENA region. She has executed deals of and India, as well as jewellery, lifestyle, retail, enterprise sectors. Sabyasachi worked in Singapore with an in Aberdeen and continued with BP Hellas, over billions of dollars, including private and and hospitality units in the UAE, Bahrain, Prior to joining Crescent Enterprises in AMLAW 100 US law firm, a Big Four Japanese Panafon, The Coca-Cola Company Southeast Ola began her career at the grassroots level, public placements, mergers and acquisitions, Kuwait, Thailand, and Turkey. 2014, Samer was the Chief Operating Officer law firm, and prior to that, in India, with a Europe & Middle East Division, and Vodafone. where she gained extensive, on-ground and greenfield projects. of Groupon Middle-East, where he was Ananth is an associate of the Institute of premier Indian law firm. At Vodafone he became Head of Human experience through her involvement in instrumental in building the company to its Prior to joining Crescent Enterprises, Ghada Chartered Accountants of India and a member Resourcing (Greece) and subsequently Group participatory, bottom-up socioeconomic Sabyasachi is qualified in England, Wales, and current leading market position. worked in the Investment Banking Division of the Chartered Institute of Management Head of Resourcing, based in London. Most projects across various demographic India, and holds a Bachelor of Law degree of Al Mal Capital in the UAE, where she Accountants, United Kingdom. recently, he was with the Libra Group, a family communities in Syria. She then worked on Samer holds a Master of Business from the University of Pune. He is a member participated in various private and public conglomerate business in shipping, aviation, enhancing social entrepreneurship practices Administration from INSEAD and is a of the Bar Council of Delhi and the Delhi High transactions including the $325 million initial and energy, in which he held the HR Director through microfinance with the Arab Gulf member of several start-up communities Court Bar Association, both in India. public offering of Drake & Scull International. role based in London and New York. Programme for Development as Project and organisations, providing mentorship Earlier, she worked with ASEC Cement Manager for Ibdaa Bank, a bank for the on a personal level as well as through Dimitris has studied Business Management Holding in Egypt, a subsidiary of Qalaa underprivileged in the Middle East, before business competitions, universities, and and Economics and holds a Master of Science Holdings, where she was involved in building joining the United Nations Children’s Fund other organisations such as Endeavor, in Business and Management from the the company’s portfolio through numerous (UNICEF) and the United Nations Development StartupBootcamp, and Sheraa. He is also University of Aberdeen and a postgraduate acquisitions and greenfield and brownfield Programme (UNDP) in humanitarian contexts a member of the investment committee of degree in HR from the International Institute projects of cement plants throughout the in fundraising and monitoring capacities. Dubai Angel Investors. for Management Development. MENA region. Ghada started her career with Currently pursuing a postgraduate diploma PricewaterhouseCoopers in Egypt, where in Sustainable Business with the Cambridge she participated in business valuations and Institute for Sustainable Business, University of financial due diligence transactions across Cambridge, Ola holds an Executive Leadership the manufacturing, services, and industrial and Management degree from Saïd Business sectors. School, Oxford University; an MSc in Applied Ghada holds a Bachelor of Science in Development Studies from the University Economics from Cairo University and is a of Reading, UK; a diploma in French–Arabic Chartered Financial Analyst (CFA). She is a Translation from Université de Lyon 2, member of the CFA Institute and the CFA France; and a BA in Human Sciences from the Society Emirates. University of Damascus. Crescent Enterprises Annual and Sustainability Report 2019-2020 55 Our commitment to business ethics To help provide MSMEs with a turnkey Diversity in Business Leadership and Family solution for their corporate governance Firms: The Pearl Initiative embarked on a novel Corruption deters social and economic development. For companies, unethical business practices impede business growth, needs, the Pearl Initiative has also research project under its Diversity in Business increase cost, and pose legal and reputational risks, destabilising business continuity. developed a series of corporate Leadership and Family Firms programmes. Pearl Initiative Crescent Enterprises adopts uncompromising ethical business standards across the countries where it operates. The company is governance tools and a bespoke online A collaboration with the NAMA Women Crescent Enterprises is the founding platform for MSMEs that it presents at committed to a zero-tolerance policy against bribery and corruption. The prohibitions of bribery and corruption are applicable across Advancement Establishment, the Diversity in and lead partner of the Pearl Initiative, its strategic events. the organisational hierarchy, irrespective of the location of operations, and are regularly communicated and mandated amongst all Business Leadership programme focuses on a not-for-profit organisation established employees. the nature and extent of women’s experiences in collaboration with the United Nations Milestones of Governance in MSMEs in the Gulf workforce, and the Pearl Initiative Through partnerships, businesses can achieve more than they can on their own. Accordingly, Crescent Enterprises has partnered Office for Partnerships in 2010 to programme since inception presented its key findings at the Women’s with several organisations and signed numerous initiatives to solidify its corporate governance framework. Such initiatives include promote robust corporate governance Economic Empowerment Summit 2019. The partnerships with the United Nations Global Compact, the Pearl Initiative, and the World Economic Forum, amongst others. standards and ethical business practices across the Gulf region. The Pearl Initiative 450+ Family Firms programme explores the future of family businesses across the Gulf region. works with businesses of all sizes and PARTICIPANTS Partnering for impact with universities and students. In 2020, Crescent Enterprises supported the Diversity the Pearl Initiative celebrated its tenth in Business Leadership programme by 14 Tushar Singhvi, Director of CE-Ventures, represents Crescent Enterprises on anniversary. contributing to a stakeholder meeting held the Global Future Council on Digital in June 2019 that solicited the opinions EVENTS Economy and New Value Creation. Pearl Initiative’s key programmes of women leaders from across multiple Tushar is also a member of several UN Global Compact and 2019 achievements economic sectors. Crescent Enterprises also World Economic Forum Crescent Enterprises is a partner of the World Economic Forum (WEF) and senior working groups engaged in projects related to digital transformation The United Nations Global Compact is a call for businesses committed to aligning Diversity in Business Leadership 36 circulated a survey developed for the Diversity Programme that sought to measure the and digital inclusion. WEF’s Global Governance in MSMEs HIGH-LEVEL SPEAKERS nature and extent of women’s experiences in a member of several WEF platforms, their operations and strategies, policies Future Councils promote innovative the regional economy. including ‘Shaping the Future of Digital and procedures with ten principles Governance in Family Firms Economy and New Value Creation’ and ‘Shaping the Future of Mobility’. thinking to ensure a sustainable and inclusive future. They involve spanning the four areas of human rights, labour, environment, and anti-corruption, Business Pledge 13 Business Pledge: Since its launch in 2016, the Business Pledge programme has continued more than 700 thought leaders from and to act in support of SDGs. COLLABORATING PARTNERS to garner commitment from senior business Badr Jafar is a member of the Stewardship academia, government, business, and civil society who provide insights on 35 leaders in the Gulf to follow the principles of 16 Board of the Digital Economy and New As a participant of the UNGC since July ethical and responsible corporate governance Value Creation platform, which helps global challenges and on the impact and 2013, Crescent Enterprises has integrated STRATEGIC EVENTS practices. Crescent Enterprises has been a companies leverage technology to be agile governance of emerging technologies. these universally accepted principles proud signatory to the Pearl Initiative Business VIDEOS 870 in the face of disruption and to create the across its operations, management, and Pledge since its launch. As of year-end 2019, Crescent Enterprises is also active strategy. The company’s commitment 22 new digitally enabled business models the Business Pledge has over 200 signatories on WEF’s COVID Action Platform, to the tenth Principle, which centres on for a new normal. Badr is also on the PEOPLE ENGAGED and has engaged over 242 students through joining forces with other stakeholders, anti-corruption, is reflected in its emphasis Stewardship Board of the New Economy INCLUDING 389 STUDENTS 13 strategic lectures, which connected them including public sector institutions and within the governance framework. This TOOLKITS, TEMPLATES, AND and Society platform, which is aimed with business leaders through discussions global businesses, to help limit further annual and sustainability report also serves GRAPHIC GUIDES 5 at advancing prosperous, inclusive and about ethical and sustainable business. disruption to lives and economies as the sixth annual update on Crescent equitable economies and societies that around the world. Enterprises’ progress in implementing the Governance in Philanthropy: The Pearl provide opportunity for everyone to fulfil Feedback from programme initiative’s ten principles. PUBLICATIONS Initiative established the Governance in their potential. He is also a member of the stakeholders: Philanthropy programme in 2017 in partnership Partnering Against Corruption Initiative Crescent Enterprises works closely with with the Bill & Melinda Gates Foundation and (PACI). the Pearl Initiative’s team in support of “It’s such an important topic that the King Khalid Foundation. The programme their mandate while actively engaging so many people miss. Corporate promotes improved governance standards At the World Economic Forum Annual with other members through the governance [is] how you build the and impact optimisation in the Gulf Region’s Meeting in January 2020, Badr shared his organisation’s Integration Board to culture of an organisation and how philanthropic ecosystem through research and insights on key development and economic provide oversight and guidance. you present yourself as an organisation, the promotion of best practices. trends shaping the global, regional, and both internally and externally.” industry agendas with public and private Governance in Micro, Small, and The first phase of the programme focused leaders through his participation in the “This programme is very helpful to us on collecting data on the current state of Medium-sized Enterprises (MSMEs): ‘New Models for Inclusive Business’ as MSMEs. Most of the time, we tend governance in the philanthropic sector, Crescent Enterprises has partnered panel discussion. He also co-hosted an to forget what good governance of a the results of which were published in the with the Pearl Initiative to launch the event titled ‘Stakeholders for a Cohesive company is and delay it. For start-ups, it thought leadership report titled The State of Governance in MSMEs programme in and Sustainable World: The Role of is very important to look for corporate 2017 to boost the resilience of micro, Governance in Philanthropy. The second phase Philanthropy in Emerging Economies’ governance and improve on it as we grow.” small, and medium enterprises in the focused on advocating for the implementation with Professor Stephen Toope, ViceGulf region through the implementation “[The governance workshop] will help of best practices in transparency, reporting, Chancellor of the University of Cambridge. of sound governance practices. Since me have more governance roles and to and impact evaluation. To support this phase, Badr highlighted the role of philanthropy its launch, the programme has built understand how to deal with the eight Crescent Enterprises conducted a session in creating a positive, scalable, and a network of MSMEs, start-ups, and most painful points.” titled Delivering Impact-Driven Social Investment sustainable social impact and contributing entrepreneurial actors, which represent Programmes at the Emirates Foundation Social “I will make changes to my policies.” to the SDGs. He also emphasised the need the cornerstone of the region’s economy. Investment Forum in Abu Dhabi. The session for using evidence-based research to highlighted the key areas that corporates improve the impact of philanthropy. should improve in order to optimise the impact of social investment programmes. Crescent Enterprises Annual and Sustainability Report 2019-2020 57 NURTURING TALENT Our diverse and inclusive workforce to provide a fair and inclusive workplace for all employees. We appreciate the role of a diverse workforce as a stimulus The company’s policy urges employees to report any discriminatory behaviour without fear of retaliation. Diversity and inclusion are being for greater innovation and improved Crescent Enterprises did not record increasingly considered key enablers of performance. any incident of discrimination in its growth. A fusion of diverse backgrounds, workplace in 2019. opinions, and talent enriches an Our diverse workforce includes a organisation’s ecosystem and enables wide range of nationalities, cultural Our workforce continues to represent it to achieve success. Diversity and backgrounds, and experiences. In a diverse talent pool consisting of inclusion are also correlated with higher 2019, we employed an average of 2,661 numerous nationalities while local Crescent Enterprises fosters an inclusive environment for its diverse financial returns, strengthening the people from 29 nationalities, including employees we hire across our countries workforce, nurturing a positive culture that supports all employees business case for their adoption. in our subsidiaries. We are an equal of operation contribute to national regardless of background, ethnicity, gender, or religion. Here, everyone’s opportunity employer, believing that talent development efforts. In 2019, 23% Crescent Enterprises realises the merit and value are the key enablers of of our workforce were local nationals, contributions are appreciated and valued. We understand that significant value in diversity and strives employee and corporate growth. compared to 17% in the previous year. employees with a sense of belonging generate immense value for the business. Accordingly, we regularly engage with our employees through one-to-one meetings, workshops, townhalls, and annual meetings to Our workforce in 2019 understand their perspectives and further integrate them into our work culture. Our learning and development initiatives also touch upon the importance and value of diversity and inclusion.” North America Europe MENA 2,661 Dimitris Tsouroplis, Human Resources Director, Crescent Enterprises 39 587 TOTAL WORKFORCE, 77 OF WHICH 16% ARE UNDER 30 YEARS OLD Asia People are the greatest asset for Our human resources policies are any organisation. It is imperative for continuously updated to furnish 1,900 any company to attract, engage, and retain the best talent to maintain its employees with a conducive work environment, where their efforts are Africa 29 NATIONALITIES competitive edge, ultimately leading recognised and rewarded. In so doing, 53 to business success. We understand we support the following SDGs: that fostering a corporate culture that encourages people to excel at work Number of employees South America 286 and to attain their self-development by nationality 5 NEW HIRES goals is crucial for the achievement of organisational objectives. Crescent Enterprises also emphasises Employees by age group age diversity across our human resources policies and practices. 18% 19% Under 30 years old Acceptance of all age groups within 30-50 years old our workforce ensures different Over 50 years perspectives, experiences, and information, leading to a broader knowledge base, which results in an exchange of more innovative ideas. In line with our commitment to building diverse yet cohesive teams, we strive to maintain and leverage the value of an age-diverse workforce. 63% Crescent Enterprises Annual and Sustainability Report 2019-2020 59 Our work environment supports the People strategy The internal and external training, Crescent Learning Month professional advancement of women offered by the Training Department Crescent Enterprises seeks to attract, across all career levels. As a signatory in coordination with department 13 develop, and retain top talent, in line to the UN Women’s Empowerment with our culture of high performance heads and employees, ranges from Crescent Enterprises’ employees who Principles, Crescent Enterprises has technical competencies for respective pledged to advocate for gender equality and integrity. Our robust recruitment roles, soft skills, business writing and TRAINING COURSES AND underwent training with us in 2019 strategy supports us in this endeavour. WORKSHOPS demonstrated a high level of engagement across its businesses and is working communications, Arabic language The talent acquisition team conducts towards implementing the seven thorough assessments for measuring classes, e-learning opportunities, and and dedication. As a provider of learning and women’s empowerment principles. Our various other professional programmes. business education, we were delighted to 137 the expertise and capabilities of approach to creating gender equality As part of the onboarding sessions, at workplace centres spans three main prospective candidates, as well as their in-house training is provided to all witness a talent pool with a genuine interest behavioural attributes. Induction of new aspects: recruitment strategies to attract employees involves a comprehensive employees covering the company’s core HOURS OF TRAINING in professional development and a knack female talent, training and capacity onboarding procedure that supports values, internal policies and processes, for refreshing their knowledge base and building, and benefits and rewards. and health and safety standards. skillsets. The level of employee participation 64% the individual to effortlessly adapt and Our recruitment policy promotes gender integrate into the organisation. Our L&D approach also promotes an and interaction within our training courses diversity in job shortlists and interviews Crescent Enterprises also encourages entrepreneurial spirit that embraces WOMEN PARTICIPATION was remarkable. We look forward to working for new roles. This has led to a marginal taking risk, facilitating teamwork, increase in the percentage of new open dialogue and transparent celebrating achievements, supporting with the diversified workforce at Crescent communications across all levels of the Enterprises on more trainings in the future, female hires from 12% in 2018 to 14% in 2019 across our global workforce. organisation. This approach allows us to develop a deeper understanding of creativity, and encouraging new business ideas. We seek to continuously 83% helping them meet the immediate demands We mentor and coach our female motivate our employees to propose and OVERALL SATISFACTION RATES of their current jobs and further enhance employee needs and expectations, and employees through regular training undertake new projects, even if there is and capacity-building programmes, ensure they remain engaged. a risk of failure. their long-term career prospects.” providing equal training opportunities Learning and development Mary Borromeo, Senior Manager Regional Operations and for women and men alike. In 2019, we launched a new training Opportunities for learning and Project Management, PwC Academy initiative in our headquarters titled Measures such as our ‘Mother and development (L&D) play a key role in Crescent Learning Month, fostering Wellness Policy’ effectively support new employee retention. Periodic trainings the ethos of learning across the mothers in transitioning back to work help employees acquire new knowledge organisation. Thirteen training courses after maternity. In 2019, 100% of our and skillsets, in addition to reinforcing Supporting employee health and Performance management Long-term employees and workshops focusing on corporate eligible female employees availed this past learnings. Crescent Enterprises well-being We foster employees’ engagement and core values, knowledge gaining, policy and returned to work after. Our is committed to upgrading the and skills-based competencies were We believe that the well-being of commitment through a performance 9% efforts led us to be recognised by NAMA competency levels of its employees. Our organised over a period of a month. our employees impacts the overall management process that deploys Women Advancement Establishment structured L&D framework provides a Employees attended full-day sessions performance of our business. As well-established mechanisms to and UN Women for driving policy wealth of curated learning opportunities extending over a two-day period, such, we strive to provide a safe and assess and manage annual goals and 20% change in support of women’s for employees, contributing to their covering topics such as finance for healthy workplace for all employees. By professional development. We work empowerment. personal and professional growth. non-finance professionals, business regularly communicating our policies with line managers to set goals for each 2018 and report writing, and emotional and providing relevant trainings, we employee at the beginning of the year, Our advancements in gender equality intelligence. Crescent Learning Month have increased employee compliance monitor the progress periodically, and 70% translated into a greater representation also offered employees training on with our health and safety policies. provide continuous feedback. of women in senior leadership and technology infrastructure and software 71% middle management positions within As part of employee benefits, we We also recognise the value of longON-THE-JOB TRAINING, 20% solutions such as Microsoft Teams. our global workforce in 2019. However, provide medical, life, and accidental serving employees and seek to SELF-STUDY, AND 10% FORMAL These trainings equipped our employees we recognise the need to cultivate a LEARNING INTERVENTIONS insurance to all our employees. We also reward their loyalty during our annual 13% early on with the necessary technical stronger gender balance amongst our promote employee wellness through a performance management process. know-how, tools, and readiness that workforce. combination of training programmes In recognition of continued loyalty, we allowed them to seamlessly adapt to the 15,000+ and awareness sessions. In 2019, we reward staff on every five-year threshold current work from home policy. organised a series of talks to raise of service up to 30 years, with benefits Percentage of female participation awareness about cancer prevention proportionate to the duration of service. in our global workforce TRAINING HOURS WERE among both men and women. Our 26% 2019 PROVIDED TO OUR GLOBAL WORKFORCE IN 2019 employee benefits scheme undergoes 2019 7% 11% 4% periodic reviews whereby the HR 61% Crescent Enterprises’ L&D framework Department makes necessary updates 2018 2% 4% 4% comprises 70% on-the-job training, 20% in line with evolving conditions in the job self-study, and 10% formal learning market and the needs of our employees. 2017 4% 2% Less than 10 years 10-20 years 20+ interventions. The training needs of our employees are assessed during the Senior management beginning of the annual performance Middle management management cycle, enabling the Staff company to develop tailored L&D programmes for the year. Crescent Enterprises Annual and Sustainability Report 2019-2020 61 CORPORATE CITIZENSHIP Global corporate citizenship The key criteria for selection of Our continuous support has been partnerships these institutions include their past recognised by partners such as the To facilitate the implementation of its experience, track record, credibility, and American University of Sharjah, which corporate citizenship programmes, impact evaluation capabilities. We also awarded us with ‘Exceptional Supporter’ Crescent Enterprises partners with both engage with our partners to co-develop status for actively contributing to local and international academic and ambitious and measurable annual reshaping its partnership programmes for non-profit organisations. targets for our programmes. developing youth skills and capabilities. Crescent Enterprises is cognisant of the role a thriving global community plays in building a conducive, sustainable business environment and an inclusive economy. As a responsible organisation, Crescent Enterprises is committed to contributing to communities in which it operates and creating a positive impact on society at large. The We at the American University of Sharjah have counted Crescent Enterprises company invests in projects that align with its business strategy, the as one of our long standing and key benefactors. Over many years, they needs of local communities, and the SDGs. Crescent Enterprises also have played a key role in sponsoring and supporting several of our initiatives like Enterprising Youth and the AUS Career Forum, which have helped build leverages its expertise to help shape the programmes of our partners.” the skills and capacities of our youth. In addition, Crescent Enterprises’ Ola Al Haj Hussin, Manager, Corporate Citizenship collaborative approach and continuous engagement has helped in refining our programmes and the delivery methodology, yielding better results.” Most recently, there has been a fundamental shift in how stakeholders perceive a company’s performance. In addition Charles A. Diab, Executive Director, Advancement & Alumni Affairs at American University of Sharjah to traditional metrics such as financial performance and monetary return to shareholders, significant emphasis is being placed on the value added to all stakeholders, including employees, customers, supply chain partners, and the approach 58,846 to addressing social and environmental challenges. Recognising this paradigm shift, Crescent Enterprises has developed In 2019-20, Crescent Enterprises’ Spending breakdown of its corporate citizenship programmes targeting four focus areas: entrepreneurship and employability, arts and culture, corporate citizenship initiatives corporate citizenship initiatives environment, and corporate governance. reached close to 60,000 community COMMUNITY MEMBERS members, exceeding last year’s 16% REACHED community reach by 72%. Focus areas of corporate citizenship initiatives Entrepreneurship and Governance 8% 22,096 Arts and culture Environment OF THEM WERE FEMALES employability 1,246 60% 16% OF THEM WERE STUDENTS Empowering youth and Supporting creativity and Tackling climate change and Encouraging good governance OR ENTREPRENEURS Entrepreneurship and employability entrepreneurs to grow and innovation by promoting reducing ecological footprint practices in businesses Art and culture prosper by developing critical cultural understanding while conserving marine and soft skills and fostering through art and raising a new terrestrial habitats Environment talents in educational generation of filmmakers Governance institutions Through the array of activities implemented under the four focus areas, Crescent Enterprises contributes to the following SDGs: Crescent Enterprises Annual and Sustainability Report 2019-2020 63 Social entrepreneurship track start-ups During the year in review, Sheraa Impact story of Sheraa: 2016 2019 Cultivating launched the Startup Sharjah entrepreneurship competition, a two-day hackathon 104 Englease Mama's Box in the region Entrepreneurial endeavours play a Sector: Education Sector: Healthcare for students and recent graduates. Participants were encouraged to $35+ MILLION pivotal role in economic growth and job develop ideas in digital content and START-UPS GRADUATED REVENUE GENERATED BY A progressive and structured English A subscription service that delivers publishing. Out of the 15 participating FROM SHERAA creation, enhancing national income START-UPS programme mainly targeting blueproducts monthly depending on the start-ups, three winners were declared and wealth, and improving the quality of collar workers. customer’s pregnancy stage or child’s life. The UAE National Agenda focuses in 2019. on instilling an entrepreneurial culture in youth to foster a new generation The Mawada Project stage of development. The Sharjah Entrepreneurship Festival 50% $747,000 provides a platform to cultivate the START-UPS LED BY FEMALES GRANTS AND AWARDS enriched with leadership capabilities, Flexbees Sector: Education entrepreneurial mindset and inspire DISTRIBUTED TO START-UPS innovation and creativity, responsibility, Sector: Employment the next generation of changemakers. and ambition. A series of skill-building community The 2019 edition of the event was Empowering social entrepreneurs engagement programmes for children that will help shape them into future An on-demand part-time jobs platform for promotions and events, attended by more than 4,000 people and featured 100 start-ups and 100 $50+ MILLION 600+ Partner: Sharjah Entrepreneurship leaders. which matches each job with suitable local and international speakers. INVESTMENT RAISED JOBS CREATED Centre (Sheraa) candidates. Programme focus: Sheraa was launched in 2016 with a mission to Mogz Sector: Education Consult & Coach for a Cause 19% 2,500+ develop a vibrant entrepreneurship OF THE TOTAL INVESTMENT MENTORING HOURS PROVIDED Sector: Entrepreneurship ecosystem that fosters the creation An online platform for students RAISED BY FEMALE-LED TO ENTREPRENEURS AND and growth of innovative start-ups in to share notes, tutor one another, C3 helps social entrepreneurs in the START-UPS START-UPS Sharjah. In so doing, it supports aspiring and provide support outside of the Middle East unlock their potential and entrepreneurs by linking them to an classroom. maximise their positive impact on the ecosystem of investors and potential community. customers while providing necessary mentorship to commercialise their Quids ideas, attract investment, and foster Rise Sector: Edutainment growth. Sheraa’s main initiatives include Sector: FinTech Idea Lab, Pre-Seed, Seed, and Series A A one-stop mobile application that programmes. empowers parents to find, plan, book, A wealth management platform for and purchase kid-friendly activities migrants to manage their finances, Sheraa also organises the Sharjah across the UAE. learn new skills, and build a better Entrepreneurship Festival, bringing future. the region’s entrepreneurial network together to connect and collaborate. PharmaVgate Academy SmartCrowd Sector: Education, Healthcare Role of Crescent Enterprises: Sector: FinTech Crescent Enterprises has continued its An online academy dedicated to strategic partnership with Sheraa to training and upskilling pharmacists A digital real estate investment support beneficiaries of Sheraa’s social using gamification technologies. platform that lowers the barriers to entrepreneurship track by sharing entry for individuals to build financial its expertise on the entrepreneurial assets and generate investment ecosystem of the region with youth and Nutribox income. entrepreneurs. Sector: Healthcare Impact: Crescent Enterprises’ support An interactive, personalised healthy has enabled Sheraa to continue living platform that helps people in implementing its venture building the Arab world lead healthier lives. programmes (Idea Lab, Pre-Seed, Seed, and Series A) and provide guidance to start-ups on topics such as business YallaDoc strategy, market research, pitch training, Sector: Healthcare and customer experience, amongst others. With Crescent Enterprises’ A specialty-focused patient-doctor support, Sheraa has provided platform that offers a comprehensive, grants to twelve start-ups for the reliable directory of paediatricians. commercialisation of their ideas and participation in key global events. Crescent Enterprises Annual and Sustainability Report 2019-2020 65 Enhancing entrepreneurial skills and capacities Fostering cross-cultural awareness and understanding 147 21,862 Arts, cultural heritage, diversity, and FILMS SCREENED FEMALE PARTICIPANTS IN Reading the articles of HBR Arabia is an essential part of creativity provide a great model for FILM FESTIVALS entrepreneurial education. Cultural my daily routine. The thought-provoking ideas and realPartner: Harvard Business Review (HBR) Arabia world examples cited in the articles have contributed exchanges contribute to empowering and promoting inclusion of all people, 29,600 immensely to my personal and professional development. irrespective of age, gender, ethnicity, PARTICIPANTS IN FILM Programme focus: Through its origin, religion, or social status. The FESTIVALS newsletter and digital content, HBR It has helped me increase my productivity and efficiency SDGs also acknowledge the role of arts Arabia provides professionals with and improve my team management skills.” and culture as an enabler of sustainable management knowledge and insights development. from leading academia and practitioners Omar A., A Renaissance Partners Programme Beneficiary worldwide to help them lead their organisations and institutions more effectively and contribute towards the progress of society. Role of Crescent Enterprises: Through its Partner: Sharjah International Film strategic partnership with the Renaissance Festival for Children and Youth Partners Programme of Harvard Business Review (HBR) Arabia, Crescent Enterprises Programme focus: The Sharjah is helping to empower entrepreneurs International Film Festival for Children affiliated with its community partners, and Youth aims to enhance the media including Sheraa and NAMA Women literacy of children and youth, and boost Advancement Establishment, and Al Ahli their creativity and interest in the arts by CSR in Action, in addition to the larger showcasing films by and about children Arab community. The support enables and young people. It also enhances their HBR Arabia to provide subscriptions to understanding of global culture and entrepreneurs and innovators. promotes tolerance by engaging them in discussions and workshops. Impact: The partnership enabled a total of 1,112 complimentary subscriptions Role of Crescent Enterprises: For the to HBR Arabia, out of which 234 were sixth year in a row, Crescent Enterprises females. These entrepreneurs, primarily has partnered with the Festival, from Saudi Arabia and Egypt, were encouraging children and youth to provided print and digital subscriptions. discover their talents, pursue their interest in the arts, and learn about global cultures. Impact: ‘Films Inspired by Books’ was Partner: Columbia Business School the theme of the 2019 edition of the Sharjah International Film Festival for Programme focus: Columbia’s ‘Global Children and Youth. The theme was Immersion: Economic Growth in the aligned with the recognition of Sharjah UAE’ programme facilitates student as the World Book Capital for 2019 by visits to established companies and UNESCO. 136 films from 86 countries government entities across the UAE, were screened across 13 venues in the helping them gain first-hand knowledge festival. Various art workshops were also of local business practices and the Crescent Enterprises also hosted the organised with a focus on media literacy. economy. second annual workshop on stop Since the festival’s inception in 2013, motion animation techniques for the Role of Crescent Enterprises: To the participation of children and youth children of its employees. This workshop develop student skills and share has steadily increased and reached a was facilitated by Sharjah Media Arts knowledge and expertise, Crescent cumulative number of 163,000 this year. for Youth and Children – FUNN, the Enterprises has been collaborating with The film festival also aims to promote organisers of the Sharjah International Columbia Business School for the past local filmmakers and motivate them Film Festival for Children and Youth. The five years. to develop films for the children and children were taught basic techniques youth of the UAE. Out of the 27,000 Impact: Crescent Enterprises hosted 30 such as creating an illusion of movement participants in 2019, 18,900 were from MBA students during 2019 at its head for physical objects by capturing one the UAE. office in Sharjah. Our team shared their frame at a time. insights into the company’s operations and its adherence to international best practices. Crescent Enterprises Annual and Sustainability Report 2019-2020 67 Humanitarian assistance to Rohingya refugees Partner: Arabian Sights Film Festival annual Arabian Sights Film Festival Empowering the UAE community in the US for the fifth consecutive The Federal National Council of the Programme focus: The Arabian year. Crescent Enterprises values the UAE strives to promote the culture of Sights Film Festival is a unique festival Festival’s mission of offering insights volunteering to build a better future for In a bid to raise the standard of The partnership was formalised The Big Heart Foundation, a organised annually under the umbrella into the heritage, diversity, and rich new generations. Inspired by this clarion living of Rohingya refugees, Crescent after the visit of our CEO Badr Jafar Sharjah-based global humanitarian of the Washington, DC International culture of the Arab world by presenting call, Crescent Enterprises launched Enterprises joined hands with The to Bangladesh, where he witnessed organisation dedicated to helping Film Festival. It provides an opportunity entertaining and thought provoking its Employee Volunteer Programme Big Heart Foundation to support the arduous living conditions on the people in need worldwide, is for people in Washington DC to view films from the region. in 2018. We view volunteering as the Water, Sanitation, and Hygiene ground. supporting the implementation quality contemporary Arab cinema a character-building activity that (WASH) project in Cox’s Bazaar district of the project in partnership with that explores the complex issues and Impact: The festival showcased 11 The project includes the installation is consistent with our approach to in southern Bangladesh. BRAC, an international development concerns of the region, as seen through films from 7 Arab countries (Egypt, Iraq, or repair of 114 water wells to corporate citizenship. The programme organisation based in Bangladesh. the eyes of Arab filmmakers. Every year, Lebanon, Morocco, Palestine, Tunisia, provide 28,000 Rohingya refugees allows every full-time employee to the festival screens a variety of narrative and the UAE) to over 2,600 people. The with access to clean water as well as dedicate two days annually towards features, documentaries, and short theme of these films revolved around health and hygiene facilities. volunteering activities with accredited films. cross-cultural conflicts and the role of non-governmental or international women in today’s Arab world. In 2019, Role of Crescent Enterprises: As part organisations. We have also integrated the audience also had a chance to of its efforts to endorse creativity and employee volunteering in the annual experience virtual reality films. cultural understanding through art, performance management process. As Crescent Enterprises supported the part of this programme, our employees have been able to support the work of several credible organisations, including The Rohingya refugee crisis is one of the most pressing humanitarian Emirates Nature – World Wide Fund, issues today and requires the concerted efforts of the international Dubai Cares, and Sharjah City for community–public sector, private companies, and donor agencies Humanitarian Services. amongst others. We greatly value Crescent Enterprises’ generosity in responding to The Big Heart Foundation’s call to action to help alleviate the sufferings of a large population living on the margins. Contributions from organisations like Crescent Enterprises have not only enabled the provision of urgent aid for families and individuals uprooted from their homes, but also fueled our strategic shift to 119 HOURS lead new projects with a more long-term and sustainable EMPLOYEES ENGAGED IN humanitarian impact.” VOLUNTEERING WORK Mariam Al Hammadi, Director, The Big Heart Foundation Crescent Enterprises Annual and Sustainability Report 2019-2020 69 ENVIRONMENTAL STEWARDSHIP Plastic-free workplace We recognise that plastic pollution Our waste footprint The amount of waste generated globally 391 KG has adverse consequences on the is rising exponentially—much of which OF NON-HAZARDOUS WASTE environment, impacting ecosystems, is dumped into landfills or finds its way RECYCLED AT CRESCENT GROUP endangering wildlife, and threatening into water bodies and oceans. Rapid human health. The accumulation of economic development and population plastic waste in the oceans inflicts severe environmental, health, and economic growth have an evident impact on waste generation. Reuse and recycling are 1,075 KG costs. Given the scale of today’s plastic key to minimising waste and building a OF E-WASTE RECYCLED AT CRESCENT GROUP crisis, the UAE has pledged to develop a circular economy. Under its Vision 2021, circular economy model to tackle plastic the UAE government aims to divert 75% Preserving the environment has always been part of Crescent 2,661 waste pollution by promoting recycling of municipal waste away from landfills Enterprises’ ethos. Mindful of the potential impact of our operations of plastic and packaging waste. and calls for the private sector to launch initiatives to reduce, reuse, and recycle on the environment, we have not only taken meaningful actions to Impact: Joining the global movement waste. REAMS OF PAPER RECYCLING BY CRESCENT GROUP protect the environment, but also cultivated environmental awareness to beat plastic pollution, Crescent Enterprises has committed to Impact: To recycle paper, plastic, among our employees. In line with national efforts for environmental 187 completely eliminating single-use plastic aluminium, and other non-hazardous conservation and research, we strive to create a positive impact on products at its headquarters in Sharjah. waste, Crescent Group partnered the environment and the communities we serve through employee During 2019, we tracked the day-to-day with Bee’ah, the UAE's leading TREES SAVED DUE TO PAPER consumption of plastic bottles with integrated environmental, recycling, engagement and education.” the aim of abolishing them by the end and waste management company, RECYCLING BY CRESCENT GROUP of 2020. We also reduced the plastic and continuously promoted the 3 Shaurik Mehta, Manager, Administration, Crescent Enterprises footprint of meetings and events by Rs—reduce, reuse, recycle—among our using glass cups and water dispensers. workforce. In line with these efforts, Furthermore, we replaced disposable 2,661 reams of paper were recycled in plastic utensils, including plates, spoons, 2019, saving 187 trees. forks, knives, stirrers, and cups with Crescent Enterprises adopts a Compliance with regulatory Crescent Enterprises contributes biodegradable alternatives. E-waste, which encompasses discarded multidisciplinary approach for fostering requirements is only a minimum to the following SDGs through its electrical or electronic equipment environmentally sustainable operations. commitment for Crescent Enterprises. environmental stewardship efforts: To inspire our employees to decrease like computers, mobile phones, and We emphasise resource conservation We not only comply with all applicable their ecological footprint and chargers, remains one of the fastest and responsible waste management in regulatory frameworks in our contribute to the circular economy growing waste streams in the world. our day-to-day work and nurture our countries of operation, but we also both at work and at home, Crescent In partnership with EnviroServe, we employees’ environmental stewardship support pioneering national efforts Enterprises organised its fourth annual regularly recycle e-waste to promote through periodic educational talks and on environment sustainability in Sustainability Talk, entitled Circular the recovery and reuse of both precious field trips. partnership with relevant organisations. Economy 101. Delivered by Elle Runton, and hazardous materials from electronic Senior Project Manager, Re-Think Plastic products. at Emirates Nature – World Wide Fund, the talk focused on the current status of recycling in the UAE. Crescent Enterprises Annual and Sustainability Report 2019-2020 71 Promoting responsible consumption of resources Energy consumption (kWh) Water consumption (litres) The excessive use of natural resources per employee at per employee at over the last few decades has triggered Crescent Enterprises Crescent Enterprises critical scarcities. This, coupled with growing demand, has caused widespread environmental degradation. 4,282 931 Resource scarcity is a growing challenge 3,806 3,295 759 in the UAE, due to population growth 656 and increasing consumption rates. In the area of energy, the UAE government is intensifying its energy efficiency efforts. Water conservation is also a priority for the government. 2017 2018 2019 2017 2018 2019 Impact: Crescent Enterprises is committed to the smart use of 13.4% 13.6% resources. We have been optimising the use of energy at our head office by leveraging technology for smart DECREASE IN ENERGY REDUCTION IN WATER management of lighting. Employee CONSUMPTION PER EMPLOYEE CONSUMPTION PER EMPLOYEE action has driven further progress, for example through the consistent switching off of lights, air-conditioning, TRANSLATING TO 414 KG OF CO2 EMISSIONS AVOIDED Maintaining green partnerships and other equipment when not in use. PER EMPLOYEE IN 2019 Partnerships and collaborations Crescent Group also replaced 3,130 tube are paramount in addressing the lights with light-emitting diode (LED) sustainability challenges of today. panels in September 2019, which is EQUIVALENT TO CARBON Crescent Enterprises is an annual expected to result in 16% annual savings SEQUESTERED BY 6.8 TREES platinum corporate partner of Emirates In 2019, Emirates Nature-WWF •2  019 marks the successful completion In line with the Low Emission Vehicles OVER 10 YEARS (BEGINNING in electricity usage. Nature – World Wide Fund, supporting collaborated with Crescent of the ten-year turtle conservation Strategy of the Abu Dhabi Executive FROM SEEDLING STAGE) its work in the areas of renewable Enterprises, Coca-Cola Foundation, project. The project provided insightful Council, Emirates Nature-WWF energy, climate change, terrestrial and the Environmental and Protected data on the population, distribution, launched a new project in partnership marine biodiversity, and education. Areas Authority Sharjah, and the local and behaviour of marine turtles to with Environment Agency – Abu Dhabi community to restore the traditional the government and policymakers to (EAD) to transition the government Falaj irrigation system in Wadi Sheesh, make informed decisions to protect the fleet to a low emissions model. It resulting in approximately 30% savings species and their habitats. also supported the implementation of water used for irrigation in selected of the UAE’s National Energy Plan by farms while conserving biodiversity. •W  ith the aim of gathering baseline assessing the status of rooftop solar information related to sharks, birds, photovoltaic system in the country With the support of Crescent Enterprises, coral, and fish, Emirates Nature-WWF and provided recommendations for Emirates Nature-WWF is promoting completed a marine biodiversity Sustainable living is a lifestyle that the UAE is increasingly integrated marine management assessment around the Sir Bu Nair increased uptake. embracing. Emirates Nature–WWF has been supporting to ensure that marine ecosystems Island. This information will be used remain resilient. It is also spearheading for developing a long-term program for Crescent Enterprises' efforts in educating and inspiring its team initiatives to conserve endangered management of the marine protected to adopt eco-friendly behaviour, use biodegradable alternatives, migratory species. Some of the key areas. and reduce their carbon footprint.” achievements under the marine •A  cknowledging the role of the private programme include the following: sector in marine conservation, Srdjan Susic, Director of Conservation, Emirates Nature – World Wide Fund Emirates Nature-WWF engaged with businesses in sectors such as hospitality, shipping, desalination, and finance on the Sustainable Blue Economy. Crescent Enterprises Annual and Sustainability Report 2019-2020 73 SDG FRAMEWORK Crescent Enterprises (Corporate Level) CE-Operates SDGs Impact areas Commitments KPIs* Category SDGs Impact areas Commitments KPIs* Category Employee wellStrive to improve the health and well-being of • Initiatives implemented to promote employee wellness Employee wellStrive to improve the health and well-being of • Initiatives implemented to promote employee wellness being employees (awareness sessions, medical benefits, office ergonomics, being employees (awareness sessions, medical benefits, office ergonomics, etc.) etc.) • Number of cases of employee ill-health (along with status • Number of cases of employee ill-health (along with status – – treated and untreated) treated and untreated) Cross-cultural Endorse creativity and innovation, and promote • Number of cultural events supported Water Reduce the water consumption across • Water footprint mapped awareness and cross-cultural understanding by supporting • Number of participants in cultural events conservation operations • % of reduction in water consumption per container understanding cultural events, building the capacities of youth to develop their creative skills, and offering • Number of female participants, where relevant insights into different cultures and heritages • Number of local participants, where relevant Energy and Reduce the energy and carbon footprint of • Inventory of energy consumption developed Diversity, equity, Embrace diversity and inclusion by recruiting • % of female employees in the workforce emissions operations and contribute to efforts to combat • % of energy intensity reduced (energy consumption per TEU) and inclusion and retaining diverse employees, advocating for • % of female employees in senior and middle management management climate change gender equality, and fostering an inclusive work • Renewable energy share of total energy consumption environment • % of employees by age group • Inventory of greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions developed • Number of employees by nationality • % of reduction in GHG emissions (scope 1 and 2) • % of other diversity categories in the workforce, where relevant (e.g. persons with disabilities, minority or Safety policies Engrain safety into day-to-day actions of • Number of fatalities, if any vulnerable groups) and practices employees to improve safety performance and • Reduction in number of workplace accidents and non-fatal • Initiatives taken to promote diversity and inclusion provide a secure work environment injuries Creation and Provide decent employment opportunities to • Number of jobs created • Number and hours of safety training provided to employees development people and support development of essential • Number of employees hired locally Operational Strive to improve and enhance services to • Gross cranes per hour of employment workplace skills excellence and benefit all customers opportunities • Reduction in attrition rate • % increase in throughput innovation • Number of hours of training provided to employees Creation and Provide decent employment opportunities • Number of jobs created Entrepreneurship Instill an entrepreneurial culture within youth, • Number of beneficiaries supported through the development to people and support the development of • Number of employees hired locally and employability develop critical soft skills for enhancing programmes and breakdown by category of employment essential workplace skills employability, and foster a new generation of • Number of start-ups supported, financially or otherwise, • Reduction in attrition rate opportunities entrepreneurs through corporate citizenship initiatives • Number of hours of training provided to employees • Improved participation of employees in engagement surveys Sustainable Reduce the environmental footprint of • Waste recycled Infrastructure Drive economic growth by developing • Size, cost, and duration of infrastructure investment resource operations by promoting responsible • % of reduction in plastic consumption development sustainable infrastructure (ports and other consumption consumption of resources and efficient waste • % of reduction in resource consumption per employee associated facilities) and waste management management (energy and water) Waste Reduce the environmental footprint • Quantity of waste (hazardous and non-hazardous) • Number of environment awareness initiatives organised management of operations through efficient waste generated for employees along with number of participants management • % of waste (hazardous and non-hazardous) recycled Ethics, integrity, Uphold highest standards of ethical conduct, • Number and nature of confirmed incidents of corruption, • % of reduction in e-waste generation and compliance eliminate corrupt practices, promote if any • % of reduction in paper consumption transparency and accountability, and ensure • Number and percentage of employees who have received participative and representative decision-making training on and been communicated to about the Clean air Reduce air emissions from ports • % of reduction in emissions (NOX, SOX) organisation’s anti-corruption policies and procedures, Oil spills Prevent and reduce marine pollution caused • Number of non-contained oil spills including total hours of training by oil spills • Number of cases of non-compliance with applicable regulations Ethics, integrity, Uphold highest standards of ethical conduct, • Number and percentage of operations assessed for risks and compliance eliminate corrupt practices, promote related to corruption and significant risks identified through Partnerships Partner with credible organisations to support • Number of partnerships by focus area transparency and accountability, and ensure the assessment process for sustainable our efforts across various focus areas in participative and representative decision• Number and nature of confirmed incidents of corruption, development contribution to the SDGs • Number of beneficiaries supported/engaged in different making if any focus areas • Number and percentage of employees who have received • Number of events/workshops organised/supported training on and been communicated to about the through partnerships in different focus areas organisation’s anti-corruption policies and procedures, including total hours of training *Targets for each KPI are being determined. The progress against the KPIs and respective targets will be captured in the 2020-21 report onwards. • Number of cases of non-compliance with applicable regulations Current impact areas Partnerships Partner with credible organisations to enhance • Number and impact of partnerships for sustainable services offerings and drive economic growth, development contributing to the SDGs Targets for each KPI are being determined. The progress against the KPIs and respective targets will be captured in the 2020-21 report onwards. Current impact areas Future opportunities Crescent Enterprises Annual and Sustainability Report 2019-2020 75 CE-Invests CE-Ventures SDGs Impact areas Commitments KPIs* Category SDGs Impact areas Commitments KPIs* Category Diversity, equity, Embrace diversity and inclusion by recruiting • % of female employees in the workforce Access to Accelerate progress by investing in companies • Number of companies, invested in, that provide healthcare and inclusion and retaining diverse employees, advocating for • % of female employees in senior and middle management healthcare services that develop healthcare solutions solutions gender equality, and fostering an inclusive work • Invested amount in companies that create disruptive environment • % of female employees in Board/governance body healthcare technologies • % of other diversity categories in the workforce, where relevant (e.g. local employees, minority or vulnerable Diversity, equity, Embrace diversity and inclusion by recruiting • % of female employees in the workforce groups) and inclusion and retaining diverse employees, advocating for • % of female employees in senior and middle management gender equality, and fostering an inclusive work Safety practices Engrain safety into day-to-day actions of • Number and hours of safety training provided to environment • % of female employees in Board/governance body and policies employees to improve safety performance and employees • % of other diversity categories in the workforce, where provide a secure work environment • Number of fatalities, if any relevant (e.g. local employees, minority or vulnerable • Reduction in workplace accidents and non-fatal injuries groups) Socioeconomic Drive sustainable and inclusive development by • Number of jobs created Safety practices Engrain safety into day-to-day actions of • Number and hours of safety training provided to impact creating jobs, promoting innovation, building and policies employees to improve safety performance and employees • Number of hours of training provided to employees provide a secure work environment infrastructure, and expanding access to • Number of fatalities, if any products and services • Size, cost, and duration of infrastructure investment • Reduction in workplace accidents and non-fatal injuries • Any other socio-economic impact (e.g. enhanced skills and knowledge) Socioeconomic Drive sustainable and inclusive development by • Number of jobs created impact providing decent employment opportunities for • Number of hours of training provided to employees Responsible Continue to improve the investment process • % of portfolio companies interacted with on ESG people and developing essential workplace skills investing by incorporating ESG factors in investment parameters • Any other socio-economic impact e.g. (enhanced skills and decisions and active ownership • % of portfolio companies screened for ESG parameters knowledge) Environmental Drive sustainable and inclusive development • Number of supply chain partners screened for Fostering Foster innovation to address societal or • Number of start-ups, invested in, that have disruptive impact by embracing environmental stewardship and environment and social performance innovation environmental challenges and create long-term technologies promoting supply chain sustainability value for stakeholders • Invested amount in start-ups to catalyse disruptive • % of supply chain partners covered under capacity building programmes on sustainability issues technologies • % of waste diverted away from landfills/recycled Responsible Continue to improve the investment process by • % of companies screened based on ESG parameters investing incorporating ESG factors in investment analysis • % of portfolio companies interacted with on ESG • % of reduction in GHG emissions (scope 1 and 2) and decision-making process parameters Ethics, integrity, Uphold highest standards of ethical conduct, • Number and percentage of operations assessed for risks and compliance eliminate corrupt practices, promote related to corruption, and significant risks identified Environmental Drive sustainable and inclusive development • Number of supply chain partners screened for transparency and accountability, and ensure through the assessment process impact by embracing environmental stewardship and environmental and social performance participative and representative decision-making promoting supply chain sustainability • % of supply chain partners covered under capacity • Number and nature of confirmed incidents of corruption building programmes on sustainability issues • Number and percentage of employees who have received training on and been communicated to about the • % of waste diverted away from landfills/recycled organisation’s anti-corruption policies and procedures Ethics, integrity, Uphold highest standards of ethical conduct, • Number and percentage of operations assessed for risks • Number of cases of non-compliance with applicable and compliance eliminate corrupt practices, and promote related to corruption, and significant risks identified regulations transparency and accountability, and ensure through the assessment process participative and representative decision-making • Number and nature of confirmed incidents of corruption *Targets for each KPI are being determined. The progress against the KPIs and respective targets will be captured in the 2020-21 report onwards. • Number and percentage of employees who have received training on and been communicated to about the organisation’s anti-corruption policies and procedures Current impact areas • Number of cases of non-compliance with applicable regulations Customer Ensure the privacy and confidentiality of • Initiatives taken to ensure customer privacy and prevent privacy and data customers’ data and adhere to relevant breaches/loss of data (e.g. privacy policy, cybersecurity governance regulations on data protection framework, etc.) • Number of complaints received regarding breaches of customer privacy • Number of identified leaks, thefts, or losses of customer data *Targets for each KPI are being determined. The progress against the KPIs and respective targets will be captured in the 2020-21 report onwards. Current impact areas Crescent Enterprises Annual and Sustainability Report 2019-2020 77 GRI CONTENT INDEX CE-Creates GRI Standard Disclosure Page no.(s) and / or Omissions URL(s) SDGs Impact areas Commitments KPIs* Category General Disclosures Safe mobility Provide safe and reliable transportation • Number of fatalities due to accidents, if any experience to customers and ensure reduction • Number of accidents and criminal cases, if any GRI 102: Organisation Profile in road traffic accidents and criminal cases General • Number of hours of training provided to drivers 102-1: Name of the organisation Front cover Disclosures Customer health Provide healthier food choices to customers • Initiatives taken to improve customer health and safety 2016 102-2: Activities, brands, products, and services 2 to 5 and safety 102-3: Location of headquarters 2 Creation and Provide decent employment opportunities to • Number of jobs created 102-4: Location of operations 2 to 3 development people and support development of essential • Number of employees hired locally of employment workplace skills 102-5: Ownership and legal form 2 • % of reduction in attrition rate opportunities 102-6: Markets served 2 to 3 • Number of hours of training provided to employees 102-7: Scale of the organisation 2, 3, 12, 13 and 59 Diversity, equity, Embrace diversity and inclusion by recruiting • % of female employees 102-8: Information on employees and other workers 58 to 61 and inclusion and retaining diverse employees, advocating for • % of female employees in senior and middle management gender equality, and fostering an inclusive work 102-9: Supply chain 7, 41, 45 and 48 environment • % of employees by age group 102-10: Significant changes to the organisation and its supply chain 41, 45 and 48 • % of procurement spend on diverse suppliers 102-11: Precautionary Principle or approach 71 102-12: External initiatives 11, 56, 57, 60, 63, 72 Water conservation Develop greener operations by reducing • Water footprint mapped and energy environment footprint including reducing water and 73 • % of reduction in water intensity (water consumed per unit and emissions consumption, optimising energy consumption, of revenue) 102-13: Membership of associations 63 management adopting clean energy solutions, and • % of reduction in energy intensity Strategy contributing to efforts to combat climate change • Inventory of energy consumption developed 102-14: Statement from senior decision-maker 6 to 7 • Number of trees planted and maintained to sequester Ethics and Integrity carbon 102-16: Values, principles, standards, and norms of behaviour 8, 25, 28, 40 and 50 Sustainable cities Make cities in the MENA region resilient and • Number of cities with access to sustainable transport Governance and communities sustainable, and support efforts to combat • Number of electric vehicles (cars/bikes/scooters) used climate change by providing access to affordable 102-18: Governance structure 51 to 55 and green mobility • Direct CO2 emissions avoided due to electric vehicles Stakeholder Engagement • Number of charging facilities for electric vehicles 102-40: List of stakeholder groups 11 Industry, Promote and adopt innovative solutions towards • Number of solutions developed innovation, and sustainable urbanisation 102-41: Collective bargaining agreements Not applicable Collective infrastructure bargaining agreements are Sustainable Source 100% of raw materials from sustainable • % of supply chain mapped highlighting the number of prohibited under sourcing and traceable sources suppliers UAE labour laws. Waste Reduce the environmental footprint of • % of reduction in plastic consumption 102-42: Identifying and selecting stakeholders 11 management operations through efficient waste management • % of stores from which single-use plastic has been phased and raise awareness on waste management 102-43: Approach to stakeholder engagement 11 out • % of waste recycled 102-44: Key topics and concerns raised 11 • % of food wastage reduced Reporting practice Customer Ensure the privacy and confidentiality of • Initiatives taken to ensure customer privacy and prevent 102-45: Entities included in the consolidated financial statements 12 to 13 privacy and data customers’ data and adhere to relevant breaches/loss of data (e.g. privacy policy, cybersecurity 102-46: Defining report content and topic boundaries Inside front cover governance regulations on data protection framework, etc.) 102-47: List of material topics 11, 21, 31, 41 and 49 • Number of complaints received regarding breaches of customer privacy 102-48: Restatements of information Not applicable No restatements during the reporting • Number of identified leaks, thefts, or losses of customer period data 102-49: Changes in reporting Inside front cover Community and Mobilise the coffeehouse stores to contribute to • Number of hours of community service provided by the social vitality community service stores 102-50: Reporting period Inside front cover Customer Enrich the customer riding experience and • Number of customer complaints (resolved/unresolved) 102-51: Date of most recent report https://www. experience and continually improve customer satisfaction crescententerprises. satisfaction com/resourcecentre/reports.php Partnerships Partner with companies and governments to • Number of partnerships forged for sustainable create a greener and sustainable ecosystem • Number of conferences participated in 102-52: Reporting cycle Inside front cover development • Number of regulations adhered to 102-53: Contact point for questions regarding the report Inside front cover 102-54: Claims of reporting in accordance with the GRI Standards Inside front cover *Targets for each KPI are being determined. The progress against the KPIs and respective targets will be captured in the 2020-21 report onwards. 102-55: GRI content index 79 to 83 102-56: External assurance Not applicable External Assurance Current impact areas Future opportunities was not sought for this report Crescent Enterprises Annual and Sustainability Report 2019-2020 79 GRI Standard Disclosure Page no.(s) and / or Omissions GRI Standard Disclosure Page no.(s) and / or Omissions URL(s) URL(s) Topic-specific Standards GRI 300 Environmental Standard Series GRI 200 Economic Standard Series Energy Economic Performance GRI 103: 103-1: Explanation of the material topic and its boundary 72 Management Economic Performance Approach 2016 103-2: The management approach and its components 72 GRI 103: 103-1: Explanation of the material topic and its boundary 12 Management 103-3: Evaluation of the management approach 72 Approach 2016 103-2: The management approach and its components 12 GRI 302: 302-1: Energy consumption within the organisation 72 103-3: Evaluation of the management approach 51 Energy 2016 302-4: Reduction of energy consumption 72 GRI 201: 201-1: Direct economic value generated and distributed 12 to 13 Economic Biodiversity Performance GRI 103: 103-1: Explanation of the material topic and its boundary 73 2016 Management Market Presence Approach 2016 103-2: The management approach and its components 73 GRI 103: 103-1: Explanation of the material topic and its boundary 59 103-3: Evaluation of the management approach 73 Management Approach 2016 103-2: The management approach and its components 59 GRI 304: 304-3: Habitats protected or restored 73 Biodiversity 103-3: Evaluation of the management approach 51 2016 GRI 202: Effluents and Waste 202-2: Proportion of senior management hired from the local 59 To reflect Crescent Market community Enterprises’ global GRI 103: 103-1: Explanation of the material topic and its boundary 20 and 71 Presence 2016 operations, the Management percentage of locals Approach 2016 103-2: The management approach and its components 20 and 71 hired of its total workforce has been 103-3: Evaluation of the management approach 20 and 71 reported. Senior GRI 306: 306-2: Waste by type and disposal method 20 and 71 management data Effluents and has proven to be Waste 2016 more challenging. Environmental Compliance Indirect Economic Impact GRI 103: 103-1: Explanation of the material topic and its boundary 70 GRI 103: 103-1: Explanation of the material topic and its boundary 15, 18, 30 and 47 Management Management Approach 2016 103-2: The management approach and its components 70 Approach 2016 103-2: The management approach and its components 15, 18, 30 and 47 103-3: Evaluation of the management approach 51 103-3: Evaluation of the management approach 51 GRI 307: 307-1: Non-compliance with environmental laws and regulations 70 GRI 203: 203-1: Infrastructure investments and services supported 15, 18, 30 and 47 Environmental Indirect Compliance Economic 2016 Impact 2016 Anti-Corruption GRI 103: 103-1: Explanation of the material topic and its boundary 28, 40, 50 and 56 Management Approach 2016 103-2: The management approach and its components 28, 40, 50 and 56 103-3: Evaluation of the management approach 51 GRI 205: 205-2: Communication and training about anti-corruption policies and 28, 40, 50, 56 and 57 Anti-corruption procedures 2016 205-3: Confirmed incidents of corruption and actions taken 56 to 57 Crescent Enterprises Annual and Sustainability Report 2019-2020 81 GRI Standard Disclosure Page no.(s) and / or Omissions GRI Standard Disclosure Page no.(s) and / or Omissions URL(s) URL(s) GRI 400 Social Standard Series Non-Discrimination GRI 103: 103-1: Explanation of the material topic and its boundary 58 GRI 103: 103-1: Explanation of the material topic and its boundary 58 to 59 Management Management Approach 2016 103-2: The management approach and its components 58 Approach 2016 103-2: The management approach and its components 58 to 59 103-3: Evaluation of the management approach 51 103-3: Evaluation of the management approach 51 GRI 401: 401-1: New employee hires and employee turnover 59 GRI 406: Non406-1: Incidents of discrimination and corrective actions taken 59 Employment Discrimination 2016 401-3: Parental leave 60 2016 Occupational Health and Safety Human Rights Assessment GRI 103: 103-1: Explanation of the material topic and its boundary 19 GRI 103: 103-1: Explanation of the material topic and its boundary 56 Management Management Approach 2016 103-2: The management approach and its components 19 Approach 2016 103-2: The management approach and its components 56 103-3: Evaluation of the management approach 19 103-3: Evaluation of the management approach 51 GRI 403: 403-1: Workers representation in formal joint management–worker 19 GRI 412: 412-2: Employee training on human rights policies or procedures 56 to 60 Occupational health and safety committees Human Rights Health and Assessment 403-2: Types of injury and rates of injury, occupational diseases, lost 19 2016 Safety 2016 days, absenteeism, and number of work-related fatalities Local Communities Training and Education GRI 103: 103-1: Explanation of the material topic and its boundary 62 GRI 103: 103-1: Explanation of the material topic and its boundary 60 Management Management Approach 2016 103-2: The management approach and its components 62 Approach 2016 103-2: The management approach and its components 60 103-3: Evaluation of the management approach 51 103-3: Evaluation of the management approach 51 GRI 413: Local 413-1: Operations with local community engagement, impact 21 and 63 to 69 GRI 404: 404-1: Average hours of training per year per employee 60 Communities assessments, and development programmes Training and 2016 Education 404-2: Programmes for upgrading employee skills and transition 60 2016 assistance programmes Socioeconomic Compliance 404-3: Percentage of employees receiving regular performance and 61 GRI 103: 103-1: Explanation of the material topic and its boundary 25, 28, 51 and 56 career development reviews Management Approach 2016 103-2: The management approach and its components 25, 28, 51 and 56 Diversity and Equal Opportunity 103-3: Evaluation of the management approach 51 GRI 103: 103-1: Explanation of the material topic and its boundary 58 to 59 Management GRI 419: Socio 419-1: Non-compliance with laws and regulations in the social and 25, 28, 51 and 56 Approach 2016 103-2: The management approach and its components 58 to 59 Economic economic area Compliance 103-3: Evaluation of the management approach 51 2016 GRI 405: 405-1: Diversity of governance bodies and employees 31, 59 and 60 Diversity and Equal Opportunity Crescent Enterprises Annual and Sustainability Report 2019-2020 83 Crescent House, Buhairah Corniche PO Box 2222, Sharjah, United Arab Emirates T +971 6 554 7222, F +971 6 544 7888 ce@crescent.ae www.crescententerprises.com
