NILFISK CSR REPORT 2019 Developing sustainable and innovative cleaning solutions Letter from the CEO About Nilfisk Nilfisk’s approach to CSR Climate and Environment Society Customers Workplace About the report Business overview Our CSR goals and actions Our method Introduction 3 Letter from the CEO 9 Nilfisk’s CSR strategy and approach 33 About the report The Nilfisk CSR report covers the financial year 33 Scope of reporting from January 1, 2019, to December 31, 2019, 4 About Nilfisk 12 Climate and Environment 33 Data-handling, scope and summary and contains our Statutory Statement for 5 Our business model 13 Environmental Responsibility 33 UN Global Compact Corporate Social Responsibility and Diversity in 6 Value chain – risk assessment 13 Climate Action 34 Organizational scope the Board and Management per section 99a 7 Stakeholder engagement 15 Circular Economy 35 Contact and 99b of the Danish Financial Statements and materiality assessment 16 2019 results and future objectives Act and the non-financial mandates of other European countries, where Nilfisk has 17 Society production and distribution sites. The report 18 Good Governance also serves as our Communication on Progress 19 Sustainable Supply Chain report to the UN Global Compact (UNGC). 20 Local communities 21 2019 results and future objectives Throughout 2019, Nilfisk made progress on transforming internal data collection processes 22 Customers to capture data globally from all sites. Hence, 23 Customer Health and Safety CSR-related focus on the environment and 23 Value of Clean climate involved establishment of concrete 26 2019 results and future objectives targets for reducing global climate footprint; these targets were aligned with the Science27 Workplace Based Target Initiative (SBTi). Nilfisk continued 28 Labor Rights to focus on product quality to enable smarter, 28 Diversity and Inclusion more innovative cleaning solutions. We also 30 Employee Development successfully certified our Chinese production 31 Occupational Health and Safety site, in accordance with ISO 14001:2015. 32 2019 results and future objectives N ilf is k CSR Repor t 2019 | 2 Letter from the CEO About Nilfisk Nilfisk’s approach to CSR Climate and Environment Society Customers Workplace About the report Committing to run a sustainable business During 2019, we saw good progress in the execution of our strategy, This detailed overview has enabled us to make a firm commitment Because our commitment to upholding our responsibilities is critical, Nilfisk Next, with a specific focus on globalizing the company and to reducing our carbon footprint and addressing the risks related to CSR must remain an integral part of our business and operations, working towards global structures, processes, and tools. In relation to climate change. everywhere, every day – and with our CSR strategy, we clearly our work with Corporate Social Responsibility (CSR), this globalization acknowledge and take responsibility for our impact on the communities also drove several initiatives: the establishment of global CSR initiatives We remain committed to supporting the Science Based Targets we are part of. and programs; the definition of global CSR targets in multiple areas; initiative (SBTi) and setting science-based targets for our emissions. and the collection of data across markets, to ensure that we measure This is a globally acknowledged approach, and the only global initiative For 10 years, Nilfisk has been a signatory member to the United and accelerate progress. that directly links a company’s carbon-emission targets to the Paris Nations’ Global Compact (UNGC), and we continue to support the Agreement, and associated global efforts to keep global temperature UN’s guiding principles in our efforts to develop not only our business, Climate and environment are key focus areas in our approach to CSR at rise below 1.5°C. No later than 2030, Nilfisk is committed to reducing but indeed our products and services, as well. Throughout 2019, we Nilfisk. Across the value chain, we have worked for years to reduce the its carbon footprint, resulting from direct emissions and emissions from widened our commitment to the UN´s Sustainable Development Goals environmental impact of our products and operations. For example, in purchased electricity, by at least 35% compared to the 2018 baseline. (SDGs) by adding one more of the SDGs to our CSR approach. our product development, we look for ways to reduce the amount of water and detergent used by the solutions we deliver to the market. We see this commitment as an integrated aspect of our actions as I am proud to see how our employees across the globe continue to be a responsible global company – with employees in more than 40 part of the transformation of Nilfisk, redefining industry standards and In addition, over the course of 2019, we initiated a comprehensive countries worldwide, and with customers using Nilfisk solutions in over ensuring that we stay focused on running a sustainable business for the collection of data concerning use of resources and generation of 100 countries. Through our commitment, we proudly continue our benefit of our customers, shareholders, stakeholders – and planet. emissions at every Nilfisk site. This collection gave us an overview of efforts to create long-term value for people and the environment. our global resource consumption, specifically with regard to heating, Hans Henrik Lund waste, use of electricity, and water, as well as carbon emissions from In addition, we believe that our commitment to the Science Based CEO our company’s car fleet. Targets can drive our efforts at turning climate risks into business opportunities. One example will involve pursuing innovation within our product portfolio, and engaging with our suppliers on their climate performance in the coming years. N ilf is k CSR Repor t 2019 | 3 Letter from the CEO About Nilfisk Nilfisk’s approach to CSR Climate and Environment Society Customers Workplace About the report About Nilfisk Since the development of its first vacuum cleaner more than a hundred Our business model Our products and services are offered to our customers through a years ago, Nilfisk has responded to the changing needs of markets and To support a clean environment, Nilfisk offers an industry-leading business model built on a conscious use of resources with focus on customers, supplying innovative cleaning solutions to businesses and product portfolio, along with significant aftermarket support. Our creating and capturing value for our customers, society, employees, and homes around the world. products and services are offered in more than 100 countries, and shareholders. help improve the sustainability performance of our customers, and At present, Nilfisk brings over a century of experience to the partners, by: Our customer base operates in a wide range of sectors and industries, manufacture and sale of high-quality cleaning equipment. • Improving human health and customers range from large global contract cleaners that buy fleets • Helping protect the environment of machines across the product range to smaller businesses buying a Founded in 1906, Nilfisk is now a global company, operating in over • Enhancing customer profitability single machine. 40 countries, with 4,900 employees working at development centers, production facilities, and sales companies. Our position as one of Based on in-depth customer insights, our product development, Industry-leading product offerings with significant the world’s leading suppliers of professional cleaning equipment, is marketing, and sales activities are targeted three overall business aftermarket support maintained by our continuous focus on innovation and improvement of verticals, named Industry, CCI and ABCA: our products. Industry covers areas like manufacturing and warehouse & logistics, Aftermarket Floorcare in which cleaning becomes an integrated part of the ongoing 31% 33% optimization and automation of facilities and production. CCI covers contract cleaners and institutions such as retail and education, 1906 967mEUR where optimization of the cleaning task is a key focus, as well as Founded Annual revenue in 2019 exploiting new and flexible ways of cleaning supported by new digital Revenue opportunities. ABCA refers to Agriculture, Automotive and Building & High 2019 Construction. Cleaning solutions to these industries reflect that areas Pressure Vacuum 4,900 Our mission: Washers cleaners like health and safety are particularly important to these customers, as Employees We enable sustainable cleaning 15% 21% well as regulatory requirements to the equipment are high. worldwide to improve quality of life Industry CCI ABCA N ilf is k CSR Repor t 2019 | 4 Letter from the CEO About Nilfisk Nilfisk’s approach to CSR Climate and Environment Society Customers Workplace About the report Our business model Nilfisk is an established global supplier of cleaning Our business model is based on creating value for our solutions and services. We are among the market leaders customers. There is a universal need for cleaning, and in the professional cleaning equipment industry, which the effect of clean is valuable everywhere. By providing has an estimated annual value of 7.5 bnEUR. high-quality cleaning solutions and services, we enable our customers to increase their productivity. Cleaning Through a combination of direct and indirect sales, we has a measureable impact for our customers, but also for service contract cleaners, retailers, industrial customers, the general public, who benefit the most from living and instituations and many more across more than 100 working in a clean environment. markets. Innovation Starting with customer insights, Nilfisk develops intelligent cleaning solutions and services rooted in new technologies and Resources tailored to our customers’ Value Creation needs. Service and Aftermarket For our shareholders: Portfolio Capital provided by investors Through a broad range of aftermarket solutions – Dividends and a global team of dedicated service techAcross our extensive Nilfisk product portfolio, we nicians, we ensure that our customers get the – Optimal capital allocation aim to deliver a top-tier cleaning performance, Insights from customers and support and service needed throughout complemented by services that increase producmarket analysis the product life cycle. tivity and reduce total cost of ownership. For our customers: Facilities for development – Productivity increase – Improved cleaning, hence Innovation enhanced quality of life for people A competent and diverse staff For our employees and society: Customers – Job creation and development – Tax contribution With innovative cleaning solutions we Operations increase cleaning productivity and quality – Better cleaning solutions for for our customers – in short, we A global production footprint comthe benefit of people and make our customers’ businesses bined with a distribution set-up environment smarter though intelligent that ensure operational efficleaning solutions and ciency and quality. services. Sales and marketing Through a global team of sales representatives combined with dealers and e-commerce, we build customer relationships and drive sales across our strategic customer segments. N ilf is k CSR Repor t 2019 | 5 Letter from the CEO About Nilfisk Nilfisk’s approach to CSR Climate and Environment Society Customers Workplace About the report Value chain – risk assessment Nilfisk remains committed to ensure that its entire value chain is considered when evaluating the range of potential risks posed by its business activities. These risks are taken into consideration during preparation of our materiality assessment and CSR strategy. Doing so ensures that we address crucial environmental and social aspects for our business and stakeholders, while also prioritizing global sustainability development and opportunities. We continuously evaluate risks, assessing their potential impact, prioritizing the greatest threats, and working proactively to mitigate them. If significant risks arise through our operations, they are analyzed and reported to both the CSR Board and the Nilfisk Leadership Team, after which specific actions to mitigate them are identified and agreed upon. Value chain – risk assessment Raw material extraction Suppliers (production) Nilfisk Transport Dealers Customers General public Disposal Mining of scarce minerals, Human rights, labor rights, Human rights, labor rights, Particle pollution, CO2 Human rights, corruption, Customer health and Energy consumption, water Waste, product compliance, extraction of crude oil for equality, corruption, energy equality, resource use, energy emissions, traffic safety, and labor rights, work safety, and safety, product compliance, use and detergent pollution, pollution, and labor safety. production of plastic and/ consumption, fresh-water consumption, fresh-water facilitation payments. energy consumption. dangerous substances, general public health and or climate effect from use, CO2 emissions, waste, use, pollution, waste, CO2 energy consumption and safety. crude oil, biodiversity, spills, dangerous substances, and emissions, corruption, and water use. human rights, labor rights, resource use. work safety. corruption, and conflict minerals. N ilf is k CSR Repor t 2019 | 6 Letter from the CEO About Nilfisk Nilfisk’s approach to CSR Climate and Environment Society Customers Workplace About the report Stakeholder engagement and materiality assessment As part of the bi-annual self-assessment of our CSR strategy and approach, we revisited and updated the materiality analysis, which is based on extensive interviews with various stakeholders. Nilfisk recognizes the importance of continuous input from stakeholders, both internally and externally. We aim to engage with key stakeholder groups on an ongoing basis, in order to understand their expectations and collect insights on how to further improve our CSR efforts and approach. Customers: Shareholders: Employees: Throughout 2019, Nilfisk conducted interviews with customers Nilfisk made sure to interview both potential and current shareholders Nilfisk employees are important stakeholders in the company’s strategic to understand their expectations, and to learn how Nilfisk’s CSR of Nilfisk. Some of Nilfisk’s biggest investors have an opportunity direction and success. By conducting interviews with staff from various activities are perceived by the companies we deal with. In addition, to clarify the direction, in which they would like to see Nilfisk’s CSR functions and departments, Nilfisk develops a better understanding of Nilfisk’s Insights & Analytics team conducted a Sustainability Survey activities progress. Companies that are not currently shareholders in actual global and local CSR trends. with customers to obtain an improved understanding of the extent Nilfisk also had the opportunity to explain why they had not yet chosen to which sustainability matters within the cleaning industry. Topics to do so, and what would need to be done differently for investment We believe it is crucial to maintain an ongoing conversation with our such as the environment and climate, as well as customer health and to take place. The findings are similar to the feedback gathered by employees on CSR topics. These interviews have made it clear that our safety, were ranked as the most important for our customers when our customers, which indicated that investors expect to see the same employees have a strong focus on occupational health and safety, and choosing a supplier. In relation to these topics, there was significant continual focus on the setting of concrete targets for measuring the the health and safety of customers. It is clear that our employees want to customer demand for supportive data that could illustrate progress and progress of various CSR commitments. be part of an organization, that they can generally be proud to work for. results. The aforementioned findings reconfirmed that Nilfisk is on the right track regarding implementation of clear targets and goals, and In 2019, Code of Conduct training was conducted for Nilfisk’s senior prioritization of the most critical sustainability issues. leaders, and more than 70% of them recognized the importance of CSR-related issues within their specific work area, while over 90% expressed belief that Nilfisk’s CSR strategy and programs are focused on the most important topics. Our senior leadership also feels a strong responsibility for driving CSR programs internally and externally. N ilf is k CSR Repor t 2019 | 7 Letter from the CEO About Nilfisk Nilfisk’s approach to CSR Climate and Environment Society Customers Workplace About the report Risks in the value chain Material topic CSR strategic sub-area Stakeholder engagement and materiality assessment Energy consumption, environmental pollution, Environmental compliance Environmental Responsibility To goal of our materiality assessment framework dangerous substances is to present those material issues most important Emissions Climate and Energy consumption, CO2 emissions, air pollution, particle Climate Action to Nilfisk, which are also recognized by our Environment pollution Energy stakeholders, and those with highest importance with regard to our business activities. Together with Solid/liquid waste the identified risks in the value chain, they provide Raw-material extraction, resource use, waste, Materials Circular Economy the foundation for strengthening our CSR-strategy. fresh-water use, detergent pollution Water Our materiality assessment is inspired by GRI principles and guidelines, and the elements of Nilfisk’s CSR-strategy are structured according to Anti-corruption, ethics and integrity the GRI framework. Anti-corruption, data privacy, integrity, fraud and Customer privacy Good Governance conflict of interest, compliance The stakeholder analysis we conducted, combined Society Anti-competitive behaviour with the value-chain risk-assessment findings, Human rights, labor rights, CO2 emissions, waste, resource Supplier social and environmental assessment that helped identify the most material issues, Sustainable Supply Chain has resulted in the following updated materiality use Human-rights impact assessment assessment, where each material issue is captured Traffic safety, particle pollution, climate effects, and managed in one of four specific CSR-strategy Local communities Local Communities business license to operate areas: Customer health and safety Customer Health and Safety Customer Health and Safety, product compliance, Customers dangerous substances, energy consumption and water use Marketing and labelling Total cost of ownership Value of Clean Child labor Non-discrimination Labor Rights Workplace Forced and compulsory labor Human rights, labor rights, diversity and inclusion, work safety Diversity and equal opportunity Diversity and Inclusion Training and education Employee Development Occupational health and safety Occupational Health and Safety N ilf is k CSR Repor t 2019 | 8 Letter from the CEO About Nilfisk Nilfisk’s approach to CSR Climate and Environment Society Customers Workplace About the report Nilfisk’s CSR strategy and approach Nilfisk’s CSR strategy and approach address the issues material to Nilfisk, its stakeholders and the risks identified within our value chain. Nilfisk works to improve quality of life through its products, which help keep The United Nations Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs) serves as schools, hospitals, and many other locations clean. We believe good health and strategic guidance for our work with CSR, and ensure that Nilfisk works well-being are fundamental human rights, and this philosophy is integral to our towards more sustainable development in the future. methods for developing cleaning solutions. That is why SDG 3, “Good Health and Well-Being,” is one of the global goals we support. We are currently pursuing the The SDGs refer to the 2030 Agenda for Sustainable Development, following specific targets within SDG 3. which comprises 17 goals for ending poverty, protecting the planet, • SDG target 3-9 Reduce illnesses and death from hazardous chemicals and pollution and ensuring global prosperity through a new sustainable-development agenda. Nilfisk has identified and selected specific SDGs. In 2019, we added one more SDG to our CSR strategy, to reflect our Nilfisk acknowledges its role in the promotion of responsible consumption and increased focus on reducing carbon footprint. Consequently, Nilfisk production patterns. As a global company, it is important that we play a role in now works strategically with SDGs 3 “Good Health and Well-Being”, active decisions which impact the environment positively. In doing so, we contribute 12 “Responsible Consumption and Production”, and 13 “Climate directly to SDG 12, “Responsible Consumption and Production.” Action”. SDGs 3 and 12 have specific targets that cover a broad range We are currently pursuing 3 of the 11 specific targets that make up SDG 12. of sustainable development issues, and throughout the report, we show • SDG target 12-2 Sustainable management and use of natural resources how our activities specifically support the achievement of these targets • SDG target 12-5 Substantially reduce waste generation and fulfillment of the SDGs. • SDG target 12-6 Encourage companies to adopt sustainable practices and sustainability reporting In 2019 we saw increased focus on our climate impact and related actions, which resulted in expanding the scope of our carbon footprint data-collection, and alignment with the Science Based Target initiative (SBTi)1. These actions reflect our ambition and commitment in terms of managing our climate impact. Nilfisk continues to acknowledge its role in society, and the importance of reducing its global carbon footprint in order to ensure a more positive environmental impact on the part of our business operations. Nilfisk is ready to actively contribute to SDG 13 “Climate Action” and incorporate it into the company’s updated CSR strategy. N ilf is k CSR Repor t 2019 | 9 Letter from the CEO About Nilfisk Nilfisk’s approach to CSR Climate and Environment Society Customers Workplace About the report Throughout 2019, Nilfisk has worked to update its CSR NILFISK’S CSR STRATEGY strategy as part of a bi-annual self-assessment of its CSR approach. This work includes an updated materiality analysis, ensuring that the Nilfisk strategy reflects those developments, within the field of sustainability, that are considered important to our business and stakeholders. In order to maximize the value of our contribution, we have adjusted some of the sub-areas that are reported Society on, in order to ensure alignment with the overall business strategy. The updated approach is the one that Nilfisk Sustainable believes is the best for guiding future business and related Good Supply Chain decisions. Governance Local Communities Nilfisk’s CSR purpose is to enable sustainable cleaning Environment worldwide to improve quality of life. This is the foundation nd tea of Niflsik’s CSR strategy, which encompasses four main a Cl Labor Rights areas and 12 sub-areas, aligned with UN SDGs 3, 12, and im 13. By integrating CSR into core business activities, setting Enviromental We enable Diversity and targets and initiatives with long-term value in mind within Responsibility sustainable cleaning Inclusion each of the CSR sub-area, we believe we will be able to achieve Nilfisk’s CSR goals. worldwide to improve Climate Employee Action quality of life Development Circular Occupational Economy Health and Safety ac e rk pl Wo Customer Health and Satefy Value of Clean C u sto ers m N ilf is k CSR Repor t 2019 | 10 Letter from the CEO About Nilfisk Nilfisk’s approach to CSR Climate and Environment Society Customers Workplace About the report CSR Governance In 2019, the Nilfisk Leadership Team established a CSR Board, consisting Daily operation and coordination of our CSR activities is managed by of senior managers, covering all relevant areas of the Nilfisk business. the CSR team, which engages with each CSR Board member’s teams The Nilfisk CSR Board members are vital CSR ambassadors, and are to identify potential opportunities for collaboration and contribution responsible for setting strategic directions for CSR within the Nilfisk to the fulfillment of our CSR objectives and targets. Significant Group, contributing to further integration of CSR into the business. CSR opportunities are developed into concrete business cases, and presented to the CSR Board for review and approval. CSR GOVERNANCE STRUCTURE Nilfisk Leadership Team “To ensure that corporate social – Sets the overall ambition and – Approves CSR strategy, policies responsibility is anchored across our direction of Nilfisk’s CSR efforts and KPIs business, we created a CSR Board, in 2019, with members from key global functions. Each CSR Board member is CSR Board responsible for making sure that CSR efforts are rooted in their business – The CSR Board has full mandate to take decisive actions area, while also encouraging employees throughout the organization to support, and work closely with, the CSR team.” – Camilla Ramby, EVP, Chief Marketing CSR Team Officer, Chair of the CSR Board – Define and implement CSR – Ensure progress, track and report programs into core business internally and externally on CSR activities efforts N ilf is k CSR Repor t 2019 | 11 Letter from the CEO About Nilfisk Nilfisk’s approach to CSR Climate and Environment Society Customers Workplace About the report Climate and Environment Environmental Responsibility · Climate Action · Circular Economy In 2019, we continued our efforts to reduce Nilfisk’s environmental and climate impacts. We committed to, and established Scope 1 and 2 GHG emissions targets aligned with Science Based Target initiative and made progress on setting science-based targets for our Scope 3 GHG emissions. In addition, we certified our production in China, in accordance with ISO 14001:2015 and rolled out environmental management training for all certified sites. Our climateand environment-related work is established globally as part of our Code of Conduct, more specifically its Rule governing Climate and Environment. N ilf is k CSR Repor t 2019 | 12 Letter from the CEO About Nilfisk Nilfisk’s approach to CSR Climate and Environment Society Customers Workplace About the report Environmental Responsibility 2019, our Dongguan product development and production site received Climate Action It is becoming more and more important for companies to demonstrate ISO 14001:2015 certification, and EMS training has been rolled out to In 2019, Nilfisk reaffirmed its commitment to protecting the how they identify, manage, and mitigate their environmental impact, all certified production sites. environment by focusing on reducing our carbon footprint and and to implement the right systems for ensuring a positive impact on maintaining waste prevention protocols at our sites around the world. the environment through improved operational efficiency. Going forward, we will continue our efforts to increase employee We continued to improve our environmentand climate-related engagement and training within the environmental work and related systems, and we identified science-based targets in order to reduce As such, Nilfisk is in the process of certifying towards the ISO initiatives, along with extension of ISO 14001:2015-certification to Nilfisk’s climate-related impact. 14001:2015 Environmental Management System (EMS) standard our highest-risk production sites. For example, beginning in 2020, implementation and certification. By demonstrating commitment to the we will begin the process of certifying all our sites in the Americas in The impact of climate change is becoming increasingly visible. In 2019, integration of ISO 14001:2015, and performing audits, we have been accordance with ISO 14001:2015. the World Economic Forum ranked climate-related risks – including able to identify areas for further improvement of resource efficiency, extreme-weather events, failure to either adapt to or mitigate climate waste reduction, the management of environmental risks, and change, and natural disasters – as numbers 1, 2, and 3 respectively on compliance with environmental obligations on a local and global level. ‘‘In 2019, Nilfisk aligned our Quality and Environmental policies the list of top 5 global risks2. This confirms, the urgency with which with the Nilfisk Next strategic business direction. Nilfisk’s Global businesses must address climate-related impact and set ambitious longIn 2019, we reaffirmed our commitment to reducing environmental term strategies towards doing so. Quality team, with support from the whole organization, impact, and our focus has been on improvement of environment and has been working to implement a stronger Quality and climate-centric performance through optimization of internal structures, Strengthening our global climate-action commitment systems, and processes. Environmental Management System, and spreading it to other Over the course of 2019, Nilfisk worked extensively to develop a sites where it was previously non-existent. Our ultimate goal is global overview of the company’s carbon footprint within key business To accomplish this, we have revisited our strategy in relation to ISO to contribute further to the success of Nilfisk Next and Nilfisk’s operations, product performance and its supply chain. By working off of 14001:2015-certification and the goal of certifying all European sites Corporate Social Responsibility work.’’ the guidance of CDP, which is an international non-profit organization to select those global sites with the highest environmental impact. that supports companies with reporting their greenhouse gas emissions – Amanda Espinosa, Global Quality Project Manager This was a continuous process throughout 2019, and we collected and (GHG), we have calculated our Scope 1 (direct) and Scope 2 (indirect) evaluated data in order to identify the right priorities. As a result, in emissions, and established a 2018 baseline of our carbon footprint to serve as the foundation for tracking of progress. Within Scope 1, direct emissions, resulting from fuel combustion and fleet use at our sites, were calculated. For Scope 2, we have calculated our electricity consumption. In addition, we have taken steps to calculate Scope 3, where two major categories have been identified: Purchased goods and services and Use of sold products, comprising more than 70% of our Scope 3 emissions. In order to calculate the baseline, we gathered Scope 1 and 2 GHG emissions data from our sites in 2018. To simplify and streamline our data collection, we have integrated a cloud-based system called Resource Advisor, provided by our partner Schneider Electric, to capture, contain, and visualize all resourceand energy-related data provided by our sites around the world. We are now able to track and monitor our global Scope 1 and 2 GHG emissions data, and this contributed to the establishment of a baseline for 2018. N ilf is k CSR Repor t 2019 | 13 Letter from the CEO About Nilfisk Nilfisk’s approach to CSR Climate and Environment Society Customers Workplace About the report To ensure that our work will contribute to keep global temperature Scope 1: Fleet, fuels and heating Scope 3: Purchased goods and services and Use of sold products rise under 1,5ºC and minimize climate change impacts, we worked Upon calculation of our Scope 1 emissions, we identified that the most In addition, we are now able to calculate our actual carbon footprint in throughout 2019 to establish global targets for Scope 1, 2 and 3 GHG significant part of our carbon footprint is generated by our fleet. Based relation to Scope 3 emissions in two categories: Purchased goods and emissions, in accordance with Science Based Targets Initiative (SBTi) on this, several initiatives were immediately defined to help limit our services and Use of sold products and have taken the steps to define guidelines. greenhouse gas emissions. For example, in 2019, Nilfisk worked to Scope 3 science-based targets for these two categories. During 2020, establish a new global car policy, setting concrete emissions targets the CSR team will work together with procurement teams, along with SBTi supports companies in the establishment of greenhouse-gas to minimize the climate change impact of our fleet and align with our those involved in product design and product management, to better reduction targets, based on the latest climate-science knowledge and overall strategic CSR direction and science-based target. understand our suppliers’ environmental and climate peformance, as the goals of the Paris Agreement. As such, our targets are aligned with well as the impacts of our products throughout their life-time. We will the Paris Agreement, Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change3 Scope 2: Energy consumption continue focusing on optimization of our product portfolio, and the mitigation pathways, and science-based approaches and methods of Purchased electricity comprises 95% of our Scope 2 emissions, and implementation of innovative technologies that can help us limit Scope calculation. our sites track and deliver data on their energy consumption through 3 emissions. Resource Advisor. As a result of our global energy-consumption For Scope 1 and 2, we have set and committed to a science-based data tracking, we are now able to establish targets and identify CDP score target, which is as follows: energy-efficiency projects globally across Nilfisk to reduce our energy CDP, formerly the Carbon Disclosure Project, is a global disclosure consumption. system, that provides companies, states, and cities, with guideliens on Minimum 35% reduction in absolute how to measure and manage their environmental impact. Based on Scope 1 and 2 GHG emissions by 2030, In 2019, we initiated series of audits to comply with the Energy this, CDP rates organizations´ environmental performance on a scale compared to 2018 baseline year* Efficiency Directive 2012/27/EU at our European sites, which will from A to D-. Its guidance for calculating Scope 1, 2 and 3, has been provide us with potential actions to reduce Nilfisk’s energy consumption crucial in calculation of our own carbon footprint. As a consequence of *Target subject to validation by SBTi and switch to renewable alternatives, wherever possible. our work over the past year, Nilfisk has significantly improved in its CDP score, resulting the quality of our climate disclosure receiving a Bscore, which is higher than the European regional average of C. Baseline – Car fleet – km (thousand) Baseline – Natural gas – mWh (thousand) Baseline – Electricity – kWh (thousand) 5,062 6,126 5,437 5,138 6,126 37,768 10,114 5,719 5,509 EMEA Americas APAC EMEA Americas APAC EMEA Americas APAC N ilf is k CSR Repor t 2019 | 14 Letter from the CEO About Nilfisk Nilfisk’s approach to CSR Climate and Environment Society Customers Workplace About the report Circular Economy Water-recycling projects By redefining the traditional industrial model, circular economy provides Water is a critical resource that Nilfisk strives to use as efficiently as the basis for removing the generation of waste from the system, so that possible in all operations. At our test center for high-pressure washers Manufactory / assemply when a product reaches the end of its lifecycle, it may be used again in Hadsund, Denmark, the amount of water used inspired us to to create further value. Over the previous years, Nilfisk has begun the implement a water-recycling system. This system has allowed us to save process of rethinking its product design, and identifying ways to reuse significant amounts of water every year. The knowledge and insight Materials New product product components at the end of their lifecycle. A key component of gained can support us in expanding the project to our other testing this journey is Nilfisk’s take-back programs. and production sites. As a result, we have also implemented a waterrecovery system in Brooklyn Park, Minnesota, USA, that mirrors our Waste-management and recycling setup in Hadsund. In 2019, we began working globally with Nilfisk’s sites to create and define new waste categories for reporting and collection of data. We have also begun collecting data from our sites regarding total water Customer use We want to ensure global alignment across our largest sites so that usage. Such information supports us in the coming year, as we set sites may be compared to one another with greater ease, enabling concrete targets for global water consumption and identify areas for Refurbished product identification of opportunities for waste-recycling and reuse. The data limiting fresh-water and increasing recycled-water use in the coming is reported to our global system, Resource Advisor, and continuously year. monitored. Customer use “By creating a structure over our waste consumption, we enable ourselves to create a shared approach to waste Take-back programs management in the future. We can learn from each other and Recycled water use – m3 With the goal of creating an efficient operational set-up and ensure that Nilfisk minimizes its negative impact from waste.” reducing waste from our product portfolio, Nilfisk continues – Shaun Spring, Production Manager, USA to run global “take-back” programs for faulty or old floor care machines in several of its key markets. These machines 42000 are subsequently refurbished, if possible, and sold or rented out on the secondhand market – where Nilfisk is experiencing Recyclable vs. Non-recyclable waste – % growing customer interest – ensuring that they are used to 40000 their full capacity. 38000 Machines beyond financially-feasible repair are dismantled, 27% 73% with full Nilfisk traceability of parts, such as batteries, plastic, metal, and electrics, which have the potential to be recycled. Diagramme will come 36000 In addition, Nilfisk is in the progress of implementing a takeback center in Europe, so that we can create a centralized 34000 source for refurbishment from the European countries in which we operate. This will create an opportunity for Nilfisk 2017 2018 2019 to develop a more structured approach to circular economy as 32000 it relates to our machines. Recyclable waste Non-recyclable waste N ilf is k CSR Repor t 2019 | 15 Letter from the CEO About Nilfisk Nilfisk’s approach to CSR Climate and Environment Society Customers Workplace About the report 2019 results Future objectives Focus area Goals Actions and results Goals Planned actions Environmental Responsibility » Environmental Management System (EMS) » Global procedures for key processes within » Improve the transparency of climate and » Support cascading of climate science-based work to be updated according to new EMS have been developed environmental performance, as part of targets to site level Risks: Energy consumption, environmental pollution, Climate and Environment Rule Scope 1 and 2 science-based targets » New Environmental and Climate Rule » Ensure clarity and linkage between global dangerous substances » ISO 14001:2015 training to be conducted communicated globally, as part of Nilfisk’s and site targets at all European sites Code of Conduct » Roll out updated EMS and CSR governance » Audits of Global EMS processes included as process, including increased performance, part of Annual internal audit plan improvement actions, and process» ISO 14001:2015-certification strategy conformity reporting or monitoring revised to focus on the sites with highest risks and impacts » Strengthen EMS focus on highest-impact » Dongguan China product-development » Extend EMS and ISO 14001:2015 » Complete roll-out of EMS training, and sites and production site incorporated into ISO certification to all high-impact sites establishment of effectiveness measure 14001:2015 certificate » Include EMS training with new employee» EMS training is being rolled out to all onboarding protocol certified sites » Finalize and execute EMS-certification plan Climate Action » Establish global KPIs based on baseline » Established science-based targets for » Roll out and communicate Scope 1 and 2 » Internal communication and training on calculations Scopes 1 and 2 science-based targets to site level Scope 1 and Scope 2 science-based targets Risks: Energy consumption, CO2 emissions, air pollution, » Established new car-fleet policy, as part » Set up costand CO2-saving projects to » Identify and implement costand CO2particle pollution of defining and implementing costand achieve Scope 1 and 2 emissions reduction saving projects to reduce Scope 1 and 2, CO2-saving projects » Confirm Scope 3 science-based targets by taking point of departure from Energy SDG target Efficiency Directive-audit findings on » Initiated target-setting for Scope 3, aligned impacted: European levels with SBTi » Confirm Scope 3 science-based targets Circular Economy » Establish global KPIs based on baseline » Wasteand water-data collection and » Define global targets for waste and water » Internal communication and training on calculations tracking initiated, with the goal of consumption new global targets for waste and water Risks: Raw materials extraction, resource use, waste, defining global KPIs for waste and water consumption fresh-water use, detergent pollution consumption SDG target impacted: N ilf is k CSR Repor t 2019 | 16 Letter from the CEO About Nilfisk Nilfisk’s approach to CSR Climate and Environment Society Customers Workplace About the report Society Good Governance · Sustainable Supply Chain · Local Communities As a global company, Nilfisk navigates different business cultures and national regulations. Hence, we have a constant focus on complying with applicable laws, and we prohibit any form of corruption or bribery. In 2019, we updated our Code of Conduct as we have as well updated our due-diligence system for supplier assessment by including CSR-questionnaire. Our good governance-related work is established globally as part of our Code of Conduct, more specifically its Rules on: Anti-corruption, Competition and anti-trust, Data privacy, Foreign trade controls and Anti-Fraud, conflict of interest. Our Sustainable Supply Chain work is governed by the rules, incorporated by our Code of Conduct. N ilf is k CSR Repor t 2019 | 17 Letter from the CEO About Nilfisk Nilfisk’s approach to CSR Climate and Environment Society Customers Workplace About the report Good Governance insurance, service, and the supply chain. A key NGF goal is to create a Business and Industry Advisory Committee (BIAC). Nilfisk prohibits Good governance is fundamental to the way we conduct our business “one-stop shop” where Nilfisk employees, and external stakeholders, employees and directors from directly or indirectly offering, giving, or activities and daily interactions with stakeholders. By establishing can easily find all relevant information and materials concerning e.g. receiving anything of value in order to secure an improper business integrity and ethical processes in every aspect of our business, we can key compliance, operations and commercial areas in Nilfisk. Another advantage. ensure long-term financial and sustainable success for our company and key goal is to clearly designate persons with specific responsibilities and employees. actions to be taken. Cross-functional collaboration continues to strengthen governance and compliance, e.g. legal and financial teams investigating possible In 2019, Nilfisk adopted an updated Code of Conduct consisting of The NGF will be rolled out in 2020, and will include about 30 rules, compliance violations. In 2019, we conducted audits at subsidiaries in 11 Rules covering e.g. anti-corruption, IT security, product quality, and supported by multiple implementation guidelines, along with tables Brazil, Chile, Hungary, and Russia, and suppliers in China. A key aspect labor rights and protections, as well as an overarching Integrity Policy explaining which rules apply to which Nilfisk corporate functions (some, of such visits is meetings with high-risk service suppliers in order to requiring Nilfisk employees, directors, and officers, to always act with including the Code of Conduct rules, apply to all functions worldwide), assess their risk profiles, in particular regarding bribery, and to mitigate integrity in their work at Nilfisk. The Code of Conduct focuses on key which ISO standards apply to which rules and which rules relate to such risks together. “dos and don’ts” and their practical application, as well as on reporting other rules. and investigating possible violations of the Code of Conduct. Competition law The status of rule-implementation will be verified through annual Nilfisk continues its efforts to comply with global competition laws. The Nilfisk Leadership Team (NLT) also approved the establishment assurance exercises, in which various Nilfisk functions will confirm Our Competition, Compliance, and Contracts rules require employees of the Nilfisk Governance Framework (NGF), thereby expanding the how they have implemented rules applicable to them. Nilfisk’s global negotiating contracts to use Corporate Affairs guidance when existing governance framework originally comprising the Code of compliance function will consolidate the assurance-reporting into an reviewing competition-law risks. In 2019, guidance was generated Conduct. The NGF will incorporate the Rules in the Code of Conduct NGF-status summary, which will be presented to the NLT and Board of on how employees must act at meetings where third parties begin and supplement them with operational rules containing standardized Directors, including gaps in implementation and the actions needed to discussions that could violate applicable competition laws. global practices and requirements in key areas, e.g. contracts, close them. Data privacy, including the General Data Protection Regulation Code of Conduct training began in second half of 2019, with Nilfisk continues its long-term, ongoing actions to comply with online training for Nilfisk’s most senior global managers. The training the 2018 EU General Data Protection Regulation (GDPR), including highlighted the key role of managers in supporting and promoting the implementing GDPR-compliant standards for some global dataCode of Conduct. Webinars followed for select corporate functions, and processing activities where GDPR does not apply. The global compliance all other global employees will receive online training in 2020. In-person officer monitors compliance actions and addresses GDPR-related training also occurs during compliance visits to Nilfisk subsidiaries and inquiries, e.g. requests for personal data from individuals, and reports their sites. Global NGF training will also take place in 2020. of data breach. GDPR compliance is a key element of the Code of Conduct training, and Nilfisk has invested in an automated tool to Compliance and CSR audits of global suppliers starting with those at enhance GDPR compliance. Nilfisk also continues efforts to comply with greatest risk in 2020, and proceeding onwards. other applicable data-privacy laws. As part of our Good Governance framework, we focus on the following Foreign Trade Controls key areas: Nilfisk continues to enhance its compliance program covering applicable trade and financial sanctions and export control laws, in particular US Anti-corruption and EU legislation. These include restrictions on dealings with countries Nilfisk complies with applicable global anti-corruption laws. We do not such as Iran and Syria, and requirements for licenses to export dualengage in, and actively oppose, bribery, both as a company and as a use items (commercial items with a potential weapons or military use, participant in global organizations such as the UNGC and the OECD’s subject to export and re-export regulatory restrictions). N ilf is k CSR Repor t 2019 | 18 Letter from the CEO About Nilfisk Nilfisk’s approach to CSR Climate and Environment Society Customers Workplace About the report For example, Nilfisk’s updated contracts for new suppliers require them to provide extensive information and documentation, including dualuse and country-of-origin status, for the goods they supply. Anti-fraud and conflicts of interest Cross-functional collaboration continues between our legal and finance teams to ensure compliance with our Anti-fraud & Conflicts of Interest rule, in order to mitigate fraud risks. Although there were no joint audits in 2019, as there were in 2018, the teams have collaborated on investigations of fraud allegations, and subsequent remedial steps in dealing with the employees involved and in identifying ways to mitigate similar risks in the future. Conflict-of-interest risks, and the steps to mitigate them, are highlighted in our Code of Conduct training. Whistleblower system The Nilfisk whistleblower system helps employees and external parties report concerns about violations of the Code of Conduct or laws. Reports are made online to a system operated by an external Danish company, ensuring confidentiality, and anonymity if the reporter wishes. Reports are investigated according to complexity and severity, and are reviewed by Nilfisk’s Compliance Committee, consisting of the Group our supply chain. Our supplier relationships are defined by supplier to conduct supplier audits, starting in China and then expanding to CEO, and CFO, and heads of Legal and HR, as well as by the Audit agreements, which have been updated in 2019, to state that in suppliers elsewhere. In 2019, we have successfully completed 10 Committee of the Board of Directors. Investigations must follow the cases, where suppliers have their own Code of Conduct in place, it suppliers’ audits in China. requirements in the 2019 NGF rule and guidelines governing internal will not be mandatory for them to follow Nilfisk’s Code of Conduct. investigations. Going forward, we will aim to have all suppliers covered by our Code of In addition, in 2019, we streamlined our supplier-screening process Conduct, whenever they do not have their own Code of Conduct in place. using the ARIBA Sourcing Suite, with integrated, mandatory CSR The whistleblower system, were internal methods of reporting concerns and compliance self-questionnaires on e.g. corruption, climate, about legal and Code of Conduct violations, are all key elements Nilfisk´s operations are primarily assembly-based, and it remains environmental, and human rights topics. All potential suppliers must of the 2019 compliance-training sessions, and this will continue in important that our extensive network of suppliers conform to our complete these questionnaires to become a Nilfisk’s supplier. All current training conducted during 2020, with a strong focus on reporting and standards and observe the 10 principles of United National Global suppliers above specific spend will also receive the questionnaire in investigating concerns. Compact (UNGC). This development is part of an incremental process 2020, starting with China. Supplier responses will be screened by the of proactively working with our extensive supplier network and CSR and compliance teams, in collaboration with Global Procurement encouraging its members to follow the UNGC principles. Currently, and follow-up actions will be identified and approved by the CSR Sustainable Supply Chain 93% of our suppliers with an annual spend above 50,000 EUR have Board, with the goal of improving our suppliers’ CSR and compliance For Nilfisk, a sustainable supply chain requires proactive engagement confirmed their commitment to following the UNGC 10 principles, performance. and assessment of our suppliers’ performance, along with simultaneous which is a 4% increase compared to 2018. creation, capture, and delivery of value from our operations and The 2019 actions set the tone for how Nilfisk will work to elevate products to customers, and other stakeholders. To do this, we must In 2019, as part of Nilfisk´s continuous work with suppliers, we the demands we place on suppliers, as well as the support we will ensure that we address CSR-related risks and challenges within established an updated audit program and hired a dedicated auditor, provide to help them achieve those demands, thereby ensuring more sustainable supply chain. N ilf is k CSR Repor t 2019 | 19 Letter from the CEO About Nilfisk Nilfisk’s approach to CSR Climate and Environment Society Customers Workplace About the report Local communities Nilfisk continues its active involvement in the local communities where “This was an area where we felt Nilfisk had a strong we operate, contributing to a positive working environment for both opportunity to make an impact in local communities. By taking Employee volunteering Nilfisk employees and local societies. As an example, our head office, responsibility, and ensuring that each employee is integrated In the US, Nilfisk is involved in an initiative that allows our located in Broendby in Denmark, was nominated for Organization of into their everyday team, we create an environment for our employees to take paid time off from work to complete the Year 2019 by the local government. The nomination was a result employees to develop in, and we improve conditions for people eight hours of volunteer work annually. Our engagement of the work we have done, in collaboration with the local job center, in our work environment.” surveys reveal that US employees are happy to be involved to offer employment for candidates with working disabilities; Nilfisk in these projects, and that it improves their motivation. desired to take on a greater role in terms of social responsibility, which – Thomas Mikkelsen, Facility Manager, Broendby led us to take on new employees whose skills differ from those typically We continue to focus on projects more closely related to found in our offices. our core business. By assessing our global partnerships, we plan to work more strategically with the projects we Our focus, in 2020, will remain on the development of an overall believe to be most relevant to Nilfisk. strategy for local community, and on the alignment of already-existing local initiatives. N ilf is k CSR Repor t 2019 | 20 Letter from the CEO About Nilfisk Nilfisk’s approach to CSR Climate and Environment Society Customers Workplace About the report 2019 results Future objectives Focus area Goals Actions and results Goals Planned actions Good Governance » To roll-out new Code of Conduct » Global roll-out in 2019: » Implementation of Nilfisk Governance » Complete all NGF rules » To conduct Code of Conduct training » Training for senior leaders Framework (NGF) globally » Webinar training for specific functions Risks: Anti-corruption, data privacy, integrity, » Training given at visits to global subsidiaries » Expand global training in Code of Conduct » Global online training for most employees on fraud and conflict of interest, compliance and NGF, e.g. anti-corrupition Code of Conduct and NGF » Strong top management focus and support » Promote importance of reporting possible » Conduct compliance event in 2020 on Code of Conduct implementation Code of Conduct violations » New global governance framework initiated for » Strengthen focus on reporting concerns, » Underscore Nilfisk’s commitment to behavior and operations rules e.g. through whistleblower system and thoroughly investigate reported violations investigations » New training system not selected, due to budget constraints Anti-corruption » To expand audits on anti-corruption and » Site visits in Brazil, Chile, Hungary, and Russia, » Expand the audits on anti-corruption » Continue focus on anti-corruption during site audits of subsidiaries and meetings with as well as meetings with relevant local suppliers » Implement risk assessment tool visits, town halls, and supplier meetings high-risk suppliers were conducted » Complete risk assessment tool, upload online » To conduct compliance training during visits » Compliance meetings/audits with key suppliers for use, and introduce to country managers in China were performed Competition law » To expand audits on competition » Competition compliance included in site visit » Conduct trainings on competition law » Trainings for legal, procurement, and sales training » Global competition law risk assessment teams – with support of external council » Expand competition compliance audits as » Work with internal teams and external needed council on law risk assessment » Enhance risk-based approach and focus on high-risk locations Data privacy, incl. GDPR » To maintain high GDPR compliance standard » Accomplished through e.g. use of required » Maintain a high GDPR compliance standard » Enhance database mapping actions agreements, compliance with requests from » Continue general GDPR-compliance actions data subjects, use of GDPR related compliance and compliance audits tools and GDPR training Fraud and conflicts of interest » To roll-out Conflicts of Interest (COI) » COI program not rolled out due to higher » Continue joint audit collaboration with » Conduct joint site visits with Global Finance program priorities Global Finance » Work with Global Finance to identify specific » Investigations of possible fraud conducted » Identify fraud prevention gaps and remedial subsidiary gaps steps and implement conflicts of interest » Work with Global HR to implement COI prevention program prevention program Sustainable Supply Chain » New third-party due-diligence system » New third-party due-diligence system » Perform CSR due diligence for new and » Initiate supplier assessment based on CSR regarding supplier-side social management developed along with CSR questionnaire to current suppliers questionnaire Risks: Human rights, labor rights, CO2 emissions, and environmental management assess suppliers’ performance going forward » Train Category Managers to assess suppliers’ » Gather and analyze findings from supplier waste, resource use » Suppliers with spend above 50,000 EUR to » Auditing has started for key suppliers in China performance with regard to CSR and climate assessments and initiate dialogue focusing on commit to the 10 Principles of the UNGC » 93% of suppliers have signed the 10 Principles actions performance improving supplier performance SDG target of UNGC in 2019 » Audit key suppliers » Train category managers on new dueimpacted: diligence system for assessing supplier performance and climate actions » Continue supplier audits in China, and follow up on engagement to improve performance Local Communities » Investigate the possibility of establishing » Not completed » Investigate possibility of establishing a global » Establish a global strategy for local a global initiative that can embrace and initiative that can embrace and support local community work and align existing internal Risks: Traffic safety, labor rights, particle pollution, support local initiatives initiatives initiatives to local communities climate effects, business license to operate N ilf is k CSR Repor t 2019 | 21 Letter from the CEO About Nilfisk Nilfisk’s approach to CSR Climate and Environment Society Customers Workplace About the report Customers Customer Health and Safety · Value of Clean We are committed to continually investing in product quality, and safety, by focusing on product design and compliance. In 2019, Nilfisk wrote the only IECEX-listed standard for industrial vacuum cleaners on extracting combustible dust. We have successfully launched our Hazardous Dust campaign, which focuses on awareness-creation and education of both customers, and dealers, about the dangers posed by dust particles. Our Customers-related work is established globally as part of our Code of Conduct, more specifically its Rules on: Product certification and Quality. N ilf is k CSR Repor t 2019 | 22 Letter from the CEO About Nilfisk Nilfisk’s approach to CSR Climate and Environment Society Customers Workplace About the report Customer Health and Safety Nilfisk is committed to investing in innovative customer solutions while ensuring product safety, quality, and sustainable performance. Product quality In June 2019, the European Commission published its final report, “Review study Nilfisk complies with applicable standards, regulations, and legal on Vacuum cleaners”, with Nilfisk being the only company to have all of its requirements governing our products, working proactively to improve commercial-vacuum cleaner models featured, especially the VP 600 battery, which product safety through numerous working groups worldwide with offers longer battery life compared to other models in the same market category. particular emphasis in the EU and US. Through the performed tests, the Nilfisk VP600 cylinder model, with its 2-setting battery, was classified as a state-of-the-art battery-operated commercial-cylinder We work to raise the bar for product quality across our entire industry. vacuum cleaner, comparable to any consumer battery-operated vacuum cleaner This is being accomplished through participation in external bodies, on the market. Nilfisk also led the preparation of a new performance standard where we work to create new standards that enhance product safety for commercial vacuum cleaners, which will serve as the basis for the upcoming worldwide. European Regulation on energy-label and eco-design requirements for commercial dry-vacuum cleaners; this position was discussed at the Consultation Forum of the In 2019, Nilfisk was a key participant and contributor in the group that European Commissions in Brussels on October 30th, 2019. developed the only IECEX4 listed standard for industrial vacuum cleaners extracting combustible dust. In addition, Nilfisk sent out a proposal for extracting combustible dust from ordinary locations, which positioned Regulatory areas covered include, but are not limited to: us uniquely within the industry. This will support our customers with • Electrical/mechanical safety Value of Clean safe guidelines for operating in dangerous work environments. • Electromagnetic compatibility (EMC) and radio matters (RED) Sustainable cleaning has a measurable impact for our customers, • Restriction of hazardous substances but also for the general public, who benefit the most from living Such efforts help us to create industry-wide objective definitions of • Eco-design and working in a clean environment. As part of our Value of Clean standardization, which provide the only real means for customers to • Equipment intended for use in potentially explosive atmospheres commitments, we address the total value of ownership by assessing the compare products. potential savings for energy, water, and detergent used by our products; In 2019, we focused heavily on optimizing internal processes and how we can continue contributing to the health and safety of ‘‘Being a leading stakeholder in external bodies provides Nilfisk concerning product compliance. Our goal has been to increase our those living, and working, in environments cleaned by our products, with a real opportunity to set global requirements for cleaning focus on product compliance, in order to create a more efficient through product-design efficiency and stakeholder engagement. structure in relation to product compliance. We believe that by creating products that ensure the highest possible quality. In the end, clear, efficient communication and reporting systems, we are optimally Total value of ownership this is what creates value for our customers, since they will equipped to handle future challenges. By working strategically to elevate the standard of requirements in our receive the best possible product: one that offers optimal industry, we are ensuring that customers enjoy safer environments and efficiency, safety, and performance.’’ To that end, Nilfisk has worked to establish a reporting template for better quality of life. Our work to elevate water-efficiency standards for – Charalambos Freed, Technical Director, Competence Center EMEA product-compliance progress and has developed a regulatory roadmap scrubber dryers is an example of how Nilfisk customers receive greater designed for creating an overview and tracking upcoming regulatory value from the same products, which can now clean a larger area in requirements. less time with the same amount of resources. In this way, we save our Product compliance, safety and quality customers both time and money. It is vital that Nilfisk engage in open, effective dialogue with our Throughout 2019, Nilfisk’s Quality Management System (QMS), in customers to provide correct, complete instructions for our products. accordance with ISO 9001, was also implemented across all production When it comes to floor-cleaning equipment, Nilfisk has been leading Our products are covered by the global regulatory framework, along sites and distribution centers. This has helped ensure that customers the industry for many years in the reduction of water and chemical with other regional frameworks establishing requirements, and enjoy consistent product quality and safety. use during daily cleaning applications. A good example of our underlying harmonized standards of conformity. N ilf is k CSR Repor t 2019 | 23 Letter from the CEO About Nilfisk Nilfisk’s approach to CSR Climate and Environment Society Customers Workplace About the report leading expertise is the implementation of EcoflexTM and SmartflowTM technologies, which allow our customers to save up to 75% of water, and 80% of detergent during cleaning without experiencing reduced performance. With these technologies in place Nilfisk SC500 scrubber dryer saved 69,000 m3 of water and 870 m3 of detergent compared to conventional cleaning machines sold in 2019. Another example of how we deliver higher ‘value of clean’ for our customers is the Nilfisk high pressure washer product portfolio. This portfolio is industry leading in terms of overall ergonomics and in advanced boiler technology allowing customers to have same or better heating performance with up to 10% fuel savings compared to the average performance level of other available solutions. Even for a pressure washer with only moderate annual use, this efficiency level can lead to a reduction of up to 1,000 litres of fuel over a five year period. ‘‘The water-saving capabilities of EcoflexTM and SmartflowTM technologies, when combined, are significant. When looking at all the SC500 machines we sold, in 2019 alone, this corresponds to approximately 30 Olympic swimming pools’ worth of water saved. It is a ‘‘Nilfisk’s industry-leading boiler technology for highMoreover, within the regulatory landscape, our participation in great example of how we combine efficient cleaning pressure washers is a great example of how we combine numerous external bodies, many of which set future legislation performance with substantially positive sustainability to for cleaning equipment, results in the creation of cleaner working customer value-creation with sustainability, thereby helping help protect the planet’s resources.’’ – Jean-Pierre Lebrun, environments for our customers. We are currently a leading body in our customers lower their costs, and reducing resource Global Product Manager, Institutional cleaning standardizing the requirements for limitations of toxic gasses, such as requirements for the planet, as well.’’ carbon monoxide, in oil-heated high-pressure washers. Nilfisk is an One Olympic swimming – Andrew Caddick, Product Director, High pressure washers industry leader in the efficient use of these machines, and use of our pool = approx. 2.5 pressure-washing products helps ensure much healthier environments megalitres of water for those customers who choose Nilfisk. Over the next year, we will work to make more standardizations quantifiable, so it will become easier for customers to compare products, and decide which products provide the greatest Value of Clean. N ilf is k CSR Repor t 2019 | 24 Letter from the CEO About Nilfisk Nilfisk’s approach to CSR Climate and Environment Society Customers Workplace About the report Ensuring healthy and safe environments The international worldwide cleaning organization ISSA estimates that a clean working environment can5: • Reduce the probability of catching a cold or influenza by 80% • Reduce the area of surfaces contaminated with viruses by 62% • Reduce absenteeism by 46% The smallest dust In addition, unplanned absences can cause a 54% decrease in can pose the productivity, and a 39% decrease in customer service, just as an unsanitary working environment can increase employee sick days. greatest threat In addition, the WHO estimates that five out of the world´s top ten causes of death are hygiene-related. Cleaning is an investment in human health and the environment. Nilfisk is a world-leading provider of vacuums for protection against hazardous dust, and in 2019, Nilfisk initiated its Hazardous Dust campaign to improve awareness of the danger posed to human health by hazardousdust particles, which are common in the building and construction industry. According to the International Technical Commission’s International information to customers in a comprehensive, easily understood Nilfisk’s ATTIX 33/44 and Nilfisk VHS120 H-class solutions Standard, hazardous dust is defined as “non-radioactive and nonmanner. are best equipped to support customers with keeping explosive dust which is hazardous to health if inhaled, ingested, or in work environments free of hazardous dust. They provide contact with the skin”6. It is divided into three classes: The Hazardous Dust campaign is the first component of an ongoing dependable, innovative filtration, robust design, and commitment to support the building and construction industry, so that • High-risk (H-class) certification for handling H-class materials to prevent hazardous-dust equipment is eventually grouped with other basic safety • Medium-risk hazardous dust from posing a threat during work – and equipment. • Low-risk afterward. The H-class dust particles often cause severe health problems. Nilfisk’s With the right equipment, our customers can ensure a healthy, safe H-class dust extractors are compliant with the IEC International environment for both workers and the general public. Standard, and contribute to proper management of H-class particles for safer, healthier environments every day. The Hazardous Dust campaign targets Nilfisk’s dealers, who showcase our dust-extraction solutions, and craftsmen, who are most often exposed to hazardous dust during their work. Nilfisk aims to help our customers create the safest possible work environments for both themselves and their coworkers. In addition, we also educate dealers on hazardous-dust requirements, so that they can provide the necessary N ilf is k CSR Repor t 2019 | 25 Letter from the CEO About Nilfisk Nilfisk’s approach to CSR Climate and Environment Society Customers Workplace About the report 2019 results Future objectives Focus area Goals Actions and results Goals Planned actions Customer Health and Safety » Increase further focus on product » Product Certification and Quality Rules » Change industry label of efficiency » Create quantitative targets for measuring compliance established in our Code of Conduct, on scrubber dryers from qualitative to efficiency of scrubber dryers Risks: Customer health and safety, product compliance, and 15+ product-compliance processes quantitative » Secure consistently high safety standards » Outperform industry requirements in terms dangerous substances, energy consumption and water developed for new product types at a global scale » Elevate requirements for oil-heated highof efficiency use » Product-compliance status template » Continue to develop and control product pressure washers » Support the EU Commission in the quality via ISO9001-certified Quality developed with data recorded (Q3 2019» Work to harmonize the IEC 62784 implementation of an energy label for SDG target Q2 2020) Management System in order to improve standard against ATEX Directive and North commercial vacuum cleaners impacted: » Regulatory roadmap in place to track product-safety compliance even further American requirements to create a global » Internal implementation of IEC 62784 upcoming regulatory requirements standard for hazardous locations standard as an IECEx standard governing » Established standards covering new » Continue raising product-quality explosive atmospheres autonomous products benchmarks across the entire industry » Five additional product-compliance » Nilfisk leads the work on the only processes to be developed and IECEX-listed standard for industrial vacuum implemented cleaners of combustible dust » Complete data-recording, incl. » Nilfisk sent out a proposal for picking up centralization and establishment of IT combustible dust in ordinary locations, solution which is a unique proposition in the industry » All production and distribution centers have implemented a QMS and are part of the global QMS Value of Clean » Support customer understanding of » Worked on global extension of European » To continue driving awareness of the » Continue Hazardous Dust campaign work “value of clean” from a health and safety standard for hazardous particles importance of clean work environments in and increase awareness Risks: Energy consumption, water use and detergent perspective relation to human health » Launched Hazardous Dust campaign to pollution, customers and general public health and safety inform and educate customers/dealers on hazardous-dust regulation and importance of using hazardous-dust equipment N ilf is k CSR Repor t 2019 | 26 Letter from the CEO About Nilfisk Nilfisk’s approach to CSR Climate and Environment Society Customers Workplace About the report Workplace Labor Rights · Diversity and Inclusion · Employee Development · Occupational Health and Safety Creating a healthy, safe, and engaging work environment for our employees is the cornerstone of Nilfisk’s success as a company. We focus on complying with applicable labor rights laws, and ensuring that all employees are treated equally irrespective of their economic, social, political, cultural, or civil life. In 2019, we increased the representation of women in management positions and received a higher score on our employee engagement survey, compared to 2018. Our Workplace-related work is established globally as part of our Code of Conduct, more specifically its Rules on: Health and Safety and Labor rights, inclusion and diversity. N ilf is k CSR Repor t 2019 | 27 Letter from the CEO About Nilfisk Nilfisk’s approach to CSR Climate and Environment Society Customers Workplace About the report Labor Rights ‘‘The program gained increasing popularity among shop-floor financial targets. This means that we will be converting the bonuses for Ensuring a productive and engaging work environment is the main colleagues through word of mouth. Colleagues who had good those employees into fixed payment instead. focus area of our labor-rights efforts. We tolerate neither enforced labor experiences with the program began sharing it with their nor child labor, and prohibit employment of anyone under the age of The conversion is part of a plan to simplify, and results from a team members, and it became a popular offering at Nilfisk; 16. All employees under the age of 18 are employed only in accordance fundamental belief that performance and behavior are not necessarily with global standards and local regulations imposed by the specific the program isnow available at both of our production sites in driven by bonuses. The bonus conversion will be effective from January country. Hungary. The program can support employees through both 1, 2020. private and work-related challenges that would otherwise have As part of our labor-rights agenda, we have marked additional global a strong impact on their work performance and well-being – The following initiatives were undertaken as part of the global bonus regulations emerging throughout 2019, which exert influence in plan: and could, in the worst case, lead them to seek a new job.” countries where Nilfisk operates. For example, the Mexican Ministry of • Alignment of local bonus programs globally, within a single annual – Edina Csepella, Environmental, Health and Safety Manager Labor has issued a new regulation requiring all employers in Mexico scheme to identify, analyze, and prevent work-related psychological risks. • Removal of individual bonus elements to strengthen team focus Under this regulation, employers will have to establish, implement, and • Inclusion of employee engagement as an objective in all bonus plans maintain a policy for prevention of psychological risks in the workplace, Diversity and Inclusion including adoption of measures to prevent such risks. We recognize the Nilfisk believes diversity is about more than numbers detailing We will continue this work in 2020, looking in to local benefits and importance of such regulations, and these principles have their roots in nationalities, gender, or age. We believe that diversity leads to better introducing job-banding in order to ensure that our compensation Nilfisk’s origins as a company. Our labor-rights work is governed by the decisions by ensuring that different experiences and points of views are matches market levels. Labor rights, Inclusion & Diversity Rule in the Code of Conduct, wherein represented. it is established that every Nilfisk employee, and their concerns, should As of December 31, 2019, the Nilfisk Leadership team has 11 members, be treated with respect, fairness, and professionalism. As part of Nilfisk’s current major transformation we are moving from a two of whom are women, equaling a ratio of 18% similar to last year. decentralized structure to a global structure with global teams, global During 2019, four new members have also joined the team – two of In Hungary, both the physicaland mental-health status of the processes, and global standards. As a consequence of this change, our whom are not Danish, thereby increasing the nationality ratio from 9% population is relatively low compared to the international average. To team diversity, with regards to nationality, has increased. At present, to 27%. support its employees, Nilfisk has introduced an Employee Assistance 19% of all Nilfisk employees operate within a multinational team Program, offering free and confidential short-term counseling to consisting of colleagues from at least two different countries. employees who have personal and/or work-related problems. Through an external partner specializing in this area, workplace psychologists Nilfisk is represented in more than 40 countries, with an even broader are available in person, or via Skype to provide individual consultation. cultural base of 61 different nationalities employed globally. At our If needed, they also support workplace related group interventions, headquarters in Denmark, 15 different nationalities are represented, especially in times of frequent changes. which creates a culturally diverse, global mindset and atmosphere. Historically, our people processes and tools have been locally owned and driven. A stronger focus on creating a global organization includes globalizing these same processes and tools, in order to ensure greater equality and fairness in the way we treat our employees. In 2019, we introduced a new global bonus plan to align local schemes Nilfisk is represented of 61 nationalities and remove personal employee targets with no direct impact on the N ilf is k CSR Repor t 2019 | 28 Letter from the CEO About Nilfisk Nilfisk’s approach to CSR Climate and Environment Society Customers Workplace About the report Another focus area in 2019 was to gain insight in to how we could In the 2019 succession-planning process, 25% of the 400 identified Gender split Nilfisk Leadership Team % increase the number of women candidates for leadership positions, successors for one or more key roles were women, a large increase thereby addressing historical imbalances in this area. We initiated the over the previous year. The number of women serving in peoplefollowing actions: management roles has also increased by 4% compared to the previous 18% • Added “Gender demographic” to our engagement survey year, giving us a better foundation for promotion. Within Sales, the • Introduced mentor and mentee programs for female managers number of female successors is lower, which is partly because we have Male • Introduced global assessment tools for recruitment, reducing gender very few internal female candidates to recruit from. This will be a focus bias and ensuring that personal qualities play a bigger role area for 2020. Female • Strengthened equality and fairness of bonus programs, as described above Women in management positions for 2018 and 2019 82% • Ensure women are included in succession plans for key roles 2019 Learnings have emerged from the aforementioned actions. Mentor programs are welcomed because they support ongoing competence20% 80% development. 144 females 557 males Gender split Board of Directors % Engagement results show that women are inspired, and engaged, 2018 by the culture we are building through the Nilfisk Behaviors. They 14% highlight freedom of opinion, autonomy, growth, and recognition, as 16% 84% 112 females 567 males some of the areas where they feel less engaged than men today; these Male statements are confirmed by the women mentees, as well. To put more Female focus on recognition, we have introduced a global Nilfisk Behaviors award, which recognizes role models within the organization. Even though we are not completely satisfied with these numbers, they also signal that our efforts on increasing awareness on the topic and 86% “I have been with Nilfisk for more than eight years. I am aiming at hiring more females in managerial position pays off. The heading a global team, and I have contact with many people overall gender representation in the organization is as follows: 29% females and 71% males. across the organization. I have not experienced any challenges as a female manager at Nilfisk, despite the fact that the Global age distribution % Nilfisk seeks to provide equal opportunities for all genders, and gender majority of stakeholders and leaders I work with are men. My is in focus when assessing the qualifications and experience of Board 6% 11% voice and opinion count as much as those of any male leader. candidates. The Nilfisk target figure for the under-represented gender, 5% Below 18* As a people-manager, I welcome focus on personal growth guided by section 99b of the Danish Financial Statements Act, among 18-29 and development. I have recently signed up as a mentor within shareholder-elected Board members, is a minimum of 17%, which 30-39 corresponds to one person. This target was met in both 2017 and Nilfisk, which will help me develop personally, and which will be 20% 40-49 2018, and in 2019 Nilfisk continued to maintain one female member 28% of benefit to our younger talent.” 50-59 of the Board of Directors throughout 2019. However, as the Board of 60+ – Betina Lougart, Director Sales and Shipping Support, Directors increased from six to seven members following the election Age unknown EMEA and APAC of a new member at the Annual General Meeting in March 2019, the percentage of the underrepresented gender in the Nilfisk Board of *Below 18 is under 1% 29% not included in the chart Directors now corresponds to 14%. N ilf is k CSR Repor t 2019 | 29 Letter from the CEO About Nilfisk Nilfisk’s approach to CSR Climate and Environment Society Customers Workplace About the report Therefore, in order to achieve equal gender representation, as defined Our engagement survey provider, Peakon, allows us to benchmark under 99b of the Danish Financial Statements Act, Nilfisk has set a new ourselves against a global database of companies. In 2017, our target of one female to be added to the Board of Directors no later goal was to rank among the top 25% of companies within the than 2024. While Nilfisk believes the current Board of Directors has an manufacturing industry. According to the recent annual survey optimal composition based on qualifications and experience, the target from December 2019, we have succeeded, achieving an overall figure will be monitored to ensure this is both realistic and ambitious, engagement score of 7.8, representing an improvement of 0.2, which with the aim of increasing female representation. brought us into the top 25%. The two strengths highlighted by employees in this survey were Employee Growth (mentoring), where Nilfisk ranked in the top 5%. This can be attributed to two factors: Employee Development 1) The introduction of a new performance-management process, In 2019, we decided to conduct our employee-engagement survey Nilfisk Grow, where focus is put on development, and manager twice, and Engagement will be measured every quarter in 2020, with competences improving within this area one annual full survey and three lighter check-in surveys. This change 2) Freedom of opinion, especially in relation to managers’ willigness has been enacted in order to prioritize engagement and a positive to listen and take action on employee opinions atmosphere across the organization, and to give our people-managers, and their teams, an effective tool for improving their work environment. The biggest area of improvement, on a global scale, is goal-setting and alignment. Employees say that they understand and believe in the Nilfisk Next strategy, but also that they are struggling to see the link “Employee engagement is important for achieving our strategic between their individual tasks and the overall strategic direction, due Competence development objectives, and we are seeing a close correlation between to the fact that they have a weaker line of sight with regard to the In 2019, we introduced a new performance-management process, new global team structures, made more challenging by many changes which included the following changes: employee loyalty and customer loyalty. I am, therefore, very that occurred during the year, and managerial difficulties regarding • Removal of individual bonus element, replaced by a bonus program pleased to see that we have succeeded in maintaining, and communicating of the link between the two. built around financial KPIs and engagement results even increasing, our engagement level across the global • A new performance meeting template, with a stronger focus on organization. Compared to our benchmark, we have reached Engagement survey results learning and development and without performance ratings our target, and we are now ranked among the top 25% for • Cascading of company and functional objectives to everyone within employee engagement compared to other manufacturing 42 4,878 the organization countries participants • A Quarterly meeting cycle to ensure more regular check-in meetings companies. When reading through the many comments from our employees, it is also clear that our new global people 91% 7.8 We have continued training managers through global webinars, processes and tools are being embraced by our organization, response rate engagement score reaching most of our English-speaking people-managers and addressing and that they support building the culture defined by our Nilfisk topics that support our transformation. These calls are supplemented Note: Our goal is to rank among the top 10% of manufacturing companies. This survey took Behaviors – which is critical to delivering on the Nilfisk Next place in December 2019. with a leadership toolbox to support each leader in developing strategy.’’ themselves and building high-performing teams. In addition, we have provided training for managers on how best to run our global people – Jacob Blom, Executive Vice President, Group HR processes via new global processes facilitated through Workday, which is our new Human Capital Management System. N ilf is k CSR Repor t 2019 | 30 Letter from the CEO About Nilfisk Nilfisk’s approach to CSR Climate and Environment Society Customers Workplace About the report Occupational Health and Safety Throughout 2019, Nilfisk has continued its focus on Occupational The new rule and updated targets / key performance indicators Health and Safety (OHS) at both global and local levels, and we (KPIs) have been published, and the next step of the process involves remain committed to providing even better, safer workplaces for our implementation, over the next year, of global targets at the local level. employees. The overall purpose of our strategy for OHS is to ensure This includes a self-assessment system for all production sites, as well as global alignment with standards created for Nilfisk’s OHS processes. training and workshops covering the new global standards. Setting global targets is part of how we will continue working towards creation of a better working environment. The Occupational Health & “Working with an OHS system globally, and establishing global Safety Rule in our Code of Conduct defines the OHS procedures and standard practices within our workplaces, will help us to commitments we expect our employees to follow. systematically eliminate the possibility of accidents, illnesses, injuries, or fatalities caused by workplace hazards, assuring During 2019, we have continued to work on fostering a shared approach to OHS at Nilfisk, with the goal of establishing a global all Nilfisk locations achieve legal compliance. This will lead to OHS framework in alignment with a global standard, which includes an increase in worker morale, which, in turn, can lead to an setting global targets. This work consists of effort on both a global increase in productivity. By improving OHS in our factories and and local level, where templates for global risk and opportunity have workplace areas, we will also reduce the risk of productivitybeen established for use by all local sites. In addition, Nilfisk has loss due to illness, injury, or accident.” created communication posters on this subject, and updated applicable Behaviour Safety Training Program in Hungary – David Silva Espinoza, Director Global Operational Excellence In 2019, Nilfisk’s Production sites in Hungary initiated a emergency plans. Behavior Safety Training Program designed to establish a The OHS methodology new approach to Occupational Health and Safety, as well as the professional and moral responsibility of managers and team leaders. The focus of the program is to build a robust safety culture, within the organization, by creating Lethal partnerships between management and employees, in accidents order to continually engage and center employee attention and actions on the development of safety behaviors. The amount of these kinds Serious injuries of accidents should decrease As part of the program, a training workshop was conducted, focusing on managerial responsiblity and establishment of the theoretical foundations of a safetycentric culture. Emphasis was placed on leadership Lost time injuries communication, good practices in the field of behavioral safety, and definition of the role of Occupational Health and Safety in operating a modern system. At the end First aid cases The number of these cases reported should increase, in order of the workshop, participants made commitments to to map the potential risks needed to secure less serious injuries strengthening behavioral safety within their respective areas. As this is an ongoing initiative, commitments and related actions will be monitored, with follow-up by the Near misses, risks Environmental, Health, and Safety team. N ilf is k CSR Repor t 2019 | 31 Letter from the CEO About Nilfisk Nilfisk’s approach to CSR Climate and Environment Society Customers Workplace About the report 2019 results Future objectives Focus area Goals Actions and results Goals Planned actions Labor Rights » Prepare for 2019 launch of the annual » As part of launch of NIlfisk’s self-assessment systems » Continue the Nilfisk Behavior » Conduct regular nomination processes self-assessment for suppliers, a CSR questionnaire was included, which Award initiative and appoint winners Risks: Human rights, labor rights, diversity and also focuses on labor rights issues » Introduce a global recognition award inclusion, work safety » In November 2019, Nilfisk introduced a global recognition award for honoring employees whose actions are emblematic of the Nilfisk Behaviors. We have received 321 nominations and have appointed 2 winners Diversity and Inclusion » Ensure we have women candidates for » Focus has been given to the inclusion of women » Improve local benefits for all » Improve local benefits for all employees business areas/key roles in our succession successors in the succession plans for critical leadership employees globally globally, with regard for medical-care Risks: Human rights, labor rights, diversity and plan positions support for workers in low-paid jobs » Introduce job-banding to Nilfisk’s inclusion, work safety » Launch new global recruitment system » Local recruitment practices, aligned to create globally global HR system » Introduce job-banding to Nilfisk’s global to begin building knowledge of trends standardized recruitment process, so that candidates » Increase percentage of women HR system to monitor and ensure that and issues to be addressed in 2020, i.e. experience the same positive process, no matter where throughout organization and in we are paying in accordance with market finding areas, jobs, and roles, wherein they apply for a job at Nilfisk managerial positions levels the largest number of women apply; » Nilfisk created a short, practical recruitment guide, » Increase share of women throughout the learning from experiences; and sharing as well as interview guides, in order to assess specific whole organization, with particular focus best practices across the organization profiles and their cultural compatibility with the Nilfisk on sales positions and recruitment of » Review company benefits in order to Behaviors. We have introduced global assessment more female candidates for managerial streamline these globally, also within the tools for recruitment, thereby ensuring that biases are positions context of offering employee benefits reduced, and personal qualities take on a bigger role. which are aligned with the market, and We have identified Sales as an area for increased focus support equal pay on recruitment of women in 2020 » We have reviewed benefits and identified room for improvement in certain countries; further investigation will be conducted in 2020 » Nilfisk globally aligned our approach to bonuses, and created a program based on equality and fairness Employee Development » Launch new Nilfisk performance » New annual performance management process, Nilfisk » Update leadership model to » Update Nilfisk’s leadership model and management process Grow, has been introduced, removing individual bonus define competences in context of introduce manager training to improve Risks: Human rights, labor rights, diversity and element in order to improve focus on learning and behaviors skills and competences inclusion, work safety development. More regular meetings held (4 per year) » Launch manager training to » Continue conducting annual employees» Engagement survey conducted in 42 countries, with improve managerial skills engagement survey to understand 4,878 participants for 91% engagement rate and 7.8 » Continue building employee how to further strengthen employee engagement score engagement motivation and engagement Occupational Health and Safety » Change culture of reporting in Nilfisk, » Gobal KPI set, and OHS definitions updated/expanded » Change culture of reporting at » Define global roles and responsibilities and develop and share best practices on where relevant Nilfisk; develop and share best » Internal communication and training Risks: Human rights, labor rights, diversity and Occupational Health and Safety (OHS) practices for OHS focusing on new definitions and global inclusion, work safety KPIs » Assess OHS risks and opportunities for SDG target each production site impacted: » Initiate data-collection and tracking to measure progress on OHS performance » Begin the site-certification process, in accordance with ISO 45001:2018 N ilf is k CSR Repor t 2019 | 32 Letter from the CEO About Nilfisk Nilfisk’s approach to CSR Climate and Environment Society Customers Workplace About the report About the report Scope of reporting This report constitutes the statutory report cf. Danish Financial Statements Act, section 99a and 99b, as well as the mandatory nonfinancial requirements of other European countries where Nilfisk UN Global Compact maintains production and distribution sites, regarding corporate social Nilfisk works actively within the main areas of the United Nations Global Compact (UNGC), responsibility and diversity of the Board and management. The report is which we joined in 2010. published annually, together with the Nilfisk Annual Report, and covers the 2019 financial year, from January 1, 2019, to December 31, 2019. UN Global Compact Page In addition, this report also functions as the Communication of Progress (COP) to the UN Global Compact. Human Rights 1: Support and respect the protection of internationally-proclaimed human rights 18, 19 and 23 The aim of this report is to present complex issues in simple language, 2: Ensure that we are not complicit in human-rights abuses 18, 19, 23 and 25 while introducing the data needed for specialist use. This report is a presentation of Nilfisk’s activities in the field of Labor 3: Uphold the freedom of association and the effective recognition of the right to collec19 and 28 tive bargaining Corporate Social Responsibility (CSR), legal compliance, and regulatory requirements, as well as the challenges Nilfisk faces. 4: Eliminate all forms of forced and compulsory labor 19 and 28 Data-handling, scope and summary Data is generated by respective business owners, and consolidated and 5: Effective abolition of child labor 19 and 28 controlled by Nilfisk’s CSR department. Data has been requested based on standardized definitions across the organization. 6: Eliminate discrimination with respect to employment and occupation 19, 28, 29 and 30 This report covers all entities, subsidiaries, associated companies, and sites within the Nilfisk Group. If this is not applicable, it will be stated in Environment 7: Support a precautionary approach to environmental challenges 12 to 16 the relevant chapters. 8: Undertake initiatives to promote greater environmental responsibility 12 to 16 Data references 1 Science-Based Targets Initiative, https://sciencebasedtargets.org/about-the-science-based-targets-initiative/ 9: Encourage the development and diffusion of environmentally friendly technologies 12 to 16 2 World Economic Forum, https://www.weforum.org/agenda/2019/01/these-are-the-biggest-risks-facing-our-world-in-2019/ Anti-Corruption 3 The Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change, https://www.ipcc.ch/ 10: Work against corruption in all its forms, including extortion and bribery 18 and 19 4 The IECEx System is designed to facilitate international trade in equipment and services for use in explosive atmospheres, while maintaining the required level of safety. 5 ISSA, https://www.issa.com/member-benefits/value-of-clean/value-of-clean-infographic 6 IEC International Standard, 60335-2-69, 2002-7, Third Edition N ilf is k CSR Repor t 2019 | 33 Letter from the CEO About Nilfisk Nilfisk’s approach to CSR Climate and Environment Society Customers Workplace About the report GRI reference Description Page 102-14 GRI: Statement from senior decision-maker Nilfisk: Letter from the CEO 3 102-9 GRI: Supply chain Nilfisk: Value Chain – Risk assessment 6 102-15 GRI: Key impacts, risks and opportunities Nilfisk: Value Chain – Risk assessment 6 102-40 GRI: List of stakeholder groups Nilfisk: Stakeholder engagement and Materiality assessment 7 and 8 102-18 GRI: Governance structure Nilfisk: CSR Governance 11 305 GRI: Emissions Nilfisk: Climate Action 13 and 14 301-3 GRI: Reclaimed products and their packaging materials Nilfisk: Circular Economy 15 303 GRI: Water and effluents Nilfisk: Circular Economy 15 205-2 GRI: Communication and training about anti-corruption policies and procedures Nilfisk: Anti-corruption 18 418 GRI: Customer Privacy Nilfisk: Good Governance 18 102-17 GRI: Mechanisms for advice and concerns about ethics Nilfisk: Whistleblower System 19 412-1 GRI: Operations that have been subject to human-rights review or impact-assessment Nilfisk: Sustainable Supply Chain 19 413-1 GRI: Operations with local-community engagement, impact-assessment, and development programs Nilfisk: Local Communities 20 416-1 GRI: Assessment of the health and safety impacts of product and service categories Nilfisk: Customer Health and Safety 23 417-1 GRI: Requirements for product/service information and labeling Nilfisk: Customer Health and Safety 23 405 GRI: Diversity and Equal Opportunity Nilfisk: Diversity and Inclusion 28 405-1 GRI: Diversity of governance bodies and employees Nilfisk: Diversity and Inclusion 29 and 30 404-2 GRI: Programs for upgrading employee skills and transition-assistance programs Nilfisk: Employee Development 30 403 GRI: Occupational Health and Safety Nilfisk: Occupational Health and Safety 31 N ilf is k CSR Repor t 2019 | 34 Questions concerning the Nilfisk CSR report can be addressed to: CSR@nilfisk.com
