Sustainability Report 2019 High5ive, Poland Founded in 1998. Offices in Stockholm, Helsinki, Oslo and Copenhagen. 69 employees (approx. 63% real estate professionals). Assets under management of approx. €3.6 billion. Creating value through active asset management including NOI increasing activities, tenant improvements, technical upgrades, redevelopments and developments. Currently managing five close-ended private equity real estate funds. Niam Nordic V (2011) Niam Nordic VI (2015) Niam Nordic VII (2018) Niam Nordic Core-Plus (2012) Niam Nordic Core-Plus II (2016) Table of contents Continued focus on value creating sustainability practices .............................................................................................. 4 NIAM is experience and local presence ............................................................................................................................... 5 NIAM is making progress ........................................................................................................................................................ 6 Sustainability at NIAM ........................................................................................................................................................... 8 The key to NIAM’s success is its people ............................................................................................................................. 10 NIAM is transparency and responsibility ......................................................................................................................... 12 NIAM is getting better and greener ..................................................................................................................................... 14 Case – Stockholm Harbor Front Development ................................................................................................................. 16 NIAM is measuring performance ........................................................................................................................................ 19 Case – Widening the certification scope ............................................................................................................................ 21 From global principles to local stakeholder expectations ...............................................................................................22 Continued focus on value creating sustainability practices Last year, we closed the fundraise of our latest fund, Niam Nordic VII with a total of €1,019 million raised, making it the largest opportunistic real estate fund in the Nordics. We take this as a receipt of a continued strong belief in our way of doing business and creating value. As sound sustainability practices are cornerstones to our approach, we are pleased to note that not only we, but also our investors, see the link between high environmental and social standards and high net operating income. With the new fund Niam Nordic VII, we now have three opportunistic real estate funds. Together with our two Core-Plus funds, this makes five active funds, with a total asset value of around €3.6 billion. That figure makes us proud, but also humble. It is a serious responsibility our clients have entrusted to us, to manage and generate competitive returns on their investments. Therefore, I see it as one of my most important tasks to ensure all our employees can thrive and excel at work. Because by the end of the day, it is the passion our employees put into their work and our properties that will generate those prioritize the most effective measures to further long-term returns our clients expect. reduce our carbon footprint. Such an assessment is also an important aspect in the due diligence process Looking forward we see that the potential effects of when acquiring new properties. a changing global climate means all of us need to step up. First of all, in order to reduce our carbon footprint But we also need to understand that climate change so that global warming can stay as low as possible. is already happening, and that not all effects can be To further sharpen our actions in this area, we are avoided. As a property owner and developer, this increasingly making use of software, not only to track means we need to adjust and adapt to the inherent energy consumption but to identify deficiencies and risks. Rising sea levels, higher temperatures and 4 more extreme weather events like storms, floods focus on health and wellbeing of tenants. We welcome and droughts may have real, physical impact on this development and have started to look into which our buildings and ultimately affect the value of certification schemes to use in the future in order our properties. That is why we will continue to put to offer the most relevant information about our emphasis on long-term analysis in both management properties and create best value for us and our tenants. and development processes. To combine continued value growth with sustainability There are also other aspects of sustainability getting performance is what our sustainability strategy is all increased attention. A trend that we can see clearly, about. As a foundation for our work, lies the prinis the increased focus on wellness aspects of today’s ciples of the UN Global Compact, to which we are workplaces. We have since many years worked with signatories. In the following pages you can follow our building certifications, which already include aspects sustainability progress over the last year. related to the quality of the indoor environments, but new certification schemes are coming with increased Fredrik Jonsson, CEO NIAM is experience and local presence Niam AB, founded in 1998, is a leading private equity real estate firm in Northern Europe with real estate assets under management of approximately €3.6 billion as of December 31, 2019. We are also one of the largest private owners of real estate in the Nordic region. Our head office is located in Stockholm, Sweden, advantage for Niam is our local presence and and we have local offices in the Nordic capital cities hands-on real estate competence where the top of Helsinki, Oslo and Copenhagen. As of end of 20 real estate professionals average over 25 years 2019, Niam employs 63 people and has one of the of direct real estate experience. largest real estate teams specifically focused on the Nordic region with 35 acquisition and asset We follow an active asset management strategy, management professionals. including in-house project development, which involves regular interaction with property managers, It is our employees’ competence and passion for real tenants, city planners, politicians and authorities to estate that is behind our success. A key competitive understand their interests and perspectives. 5 NIAM is making progress 2010 Niam became a member of Sweden Green Building Council. 2003 Niam became a member of INREV. 2009 Niam’s internal Management System for quality and environmental assurance was certified in accordance with 2011 Niam launched Niam ISO 9001:2008 and ISO 14001:2004. Green, outlining internal sustainability guidelines. 6 2012 Niam began reporting to GRESB. LEED Gold® certification awarded to Niam-owned property Stockholm Waterfront Building, a 25,000 sqm 2017 Niam completed its first sustainability office building in central Stockholm. report as a Communication on Progress BASTA criteria became required to the UN Global compact. for larger developments, avoiding hazardous materials. Niam starts to collect and measure its properties’ energy consumption through the software system Mestro. 2014 In January 2014, the property Kremmertorget, a 13,700 sqm shopping center in Norway, became the first BREEAM 2019 At the end of 2019, 25 out of 49 classified shopping center properties were certified according in Norway. to Bream, LEED or Miljöbyggnad. Niam acquired Copenhagen Towers, including a Crown Plaza hotel which has been awarded “The World’s Greenest Hotel” and “Most Cutting-Edge Green Hotel” numerous times. 7 Sustainability at NIAM Niam always aims to optimize operational efficiency in all of our properties. Our approach to sustainability is no different. Our goal is to proactively manage and respond to the growing range of environmental and social issues that can affect property values directly or indirectly. We see that the benefits of incorporating sustainable investments and initiatives into our properties provides cost savings, value to our customers and capital partners as well as benefits to the wider society. The approach is summarized in the process below. Sustainability efforts Reducing cost / Reducing risk / Maximizing long term value Increasing tenant satisfaction SUSTAINABLE DUE DILIGENCE environment, floor plans and capacity. We sometimes To integrate the environmental performance of a acquire buildings that may be considered old or property, technical and environmental due diligence obsolete, with the intention to convert and improve are mandatory parts of the acquisition process and them to raise the financial performance. For by that we can reduce risk and help protect long-term example, a major maintenance program may require returns. We also ensure that we have resilience in an uplift of technical standards and installations. In times of changes in regulation, as well as physical and such situations, we always engage closely with the societal changes. tenants to assure them that the property will meet their future needs. OPTIMIZING OPERATIONAL PERFORMANCE By driving improvements in the environmental AIMING FOR CERTIFICATION performance of the assets we acquire, Niam reduces One way to assure current and potential tenants operating costs, carbon emissions and the use of of the quality and sustainability of a property is natural resources. Additionally, it helps to attract through environmental certifications. Our ambition and retain tenants, as well as ensuring that we is therefore always to certify a property if the appropriately manage environmental risks. completed inventory shows that, with reasonable investment requirements, the relevant certification WORKING WITH TENANTS would result in a favorable financial position in Our goal is to create value by offering workplaces that negotiations with tenants, future buyers, NOI foster innovation and productivity while reducing improvement, etc. When developing our properties, costs. To be able to offer our tenants attractive Niam often complies with the BREEAM certification premises, we work with them to understand their criteria since we usually acquire existing buildings, current and future needs. This includes an evaluation but we are familiar with all certification systems of the qualities of the building, the indoor work on the market. 8 Mikkelborg Park, Denmark FOCUS ON PEOPLE they rent; and the society at large where our tenants All of our efforts are guided by the conviction that and investors operate which need to function and the success of Niam is not properties but people: thrive in order to enable our business model. Hence, Our employees who reach and exceed expectations assessing which implications our actions have on every day; our tenants that appreciate the premises people is at heart of everything we do. 9 The key to NIAM’s success is its people Niam recognizes that we operate in a competitive and ever-changing marketplace where employees should have the courage to be entrepreneurial and where minor mistakes form part of the natural learning process. Our employees are encouraged to use their expertise and experience to take action and responsibility. The management encourages a holistic approach to fund manager. Niam maintains a strong, consistent develop its people by using coaching and feedback to employee satisfaction over the years and we continue guide and support employees. Niam is highly focused to grow our team. In 2019, nine new people joined the on attracting and developing the best people to move Niam team and the employee turnover was 11%. the organization forward because, simply put, the key to Niam’s success is its people. All employees have ”Employee satisfaction rate permanent employment with us and when required, Niam engages specialists on a consultancy basis. at Niam 2019 is 4.6 out of 5.0” Employee satisfaction survey results PLAYING IT FAIR A cornerstone of our Code of Conduct is Fair 2015 2016 2017 2018 2019 Employment Practice, in which rules for employment, 4.8 4.6 4.5 4.5 4.6 employee conduct and remuneration are outlined. When hiring new people, management base employment decisions on job qualifications and Employee satisfaction is measured through an annual merit. They make all employment-related survey which engages all employees in the process decisions and actions without regard to a person’s of evaluating the work environment and identifying race, gender, sexual orientation, age, disability or areas for improvement. The survey is conducted in other characteristics protected by law. Niam has cooperation with the Great Place to Work Institute had no incidences of reported discrimination or and it covers areas such as credibility, respect, sexual harassment. fairness, pride, camaraderie and values. In 2019, the response rate to the employee satisfaction survey was EMPLOYEES STAY, AND THEY STAY ENGAGED 97% compared to 93% in 2018, which is well above Satisfied employees are a prerequisite for satisfied the average for any size of organization. The consistclients and investors since it is our employees who ently high response rate is a clear indication of high interact with the real estate community to deliver the employee engagement as well as satisfaction. performance expected from a full-service institutional 10 INDIVIDUAL EFFORTS – SHARED SUCCESS and projects. Compliance with applicable laws and Niam has fully embraced a plan-do-check-act other work environment regulations are required and approach across all strategic aspects of the business ensured through active efforts to maintain a healthy including company goals, fund specific objectives, work atmosphere. property performance and, most importantly, employee development. We utilize a Performance In all contractual agreements we restrict the use of Management system to strengthen our entrepreneurial undeclared labor by requiring ID06 which requires culture and clearly communicate company goals everyone at a construction site to carry ID cards to as well as individual development expectations. All ensure that only legal workforce is present. In all employees review their annual goals and development development project contractual agreements, Niam objectives three times per year with their manager also require our counterparties to produce a work where individual targets and training needs are environment plan, which complies with the Swedish established. In the Performance Management system, work environment laws and regulations. The work two feed-forward discussions are included each year environmental plan must be approved by Niam. where the employees identify potential opportunity for Since 2013, Niam receives incident statistics reports personal development together with a co-worker who from turnkey contractors and property managers gives them input and feedback on the chosen areas. on a regularly basis. As part of Niam’s ISO certification, annual partner The corporate objectives and individual development audits of our turnkey contractors and property goals are strongly aligned and linked to employee managers are performed to make sure that they compensation incentives and they are reviewed work according to the ISO standards or equivalent, regularly. which is also regulated in the agreements. EQUAL OPPORTUNITIES ”All counterparties commit In the Nordics, the real estate sector and private equity sector have a history of an uneven gender to complying with composition. This has started to change, and we Niam’s Code of Conduct” are happy to see an increase of women in these two sectors, at all levels. At Niam, we continue to aim for The signed agreements in our projects also a 50/50 distribution, a goal which we are approaching include a commitment to Niam’s Code of Conduct when it comes to all staff. However, due to a 0% to ensure that all counterparties comply with the turnover, we still have a distribution of 80% men and highest standards of ethics and integrity and are in 20% women in our management team. accordance with all applicable laws regarding for example anti-corruption, anti-money laundering Gender distribution and fair employment practices. SOCIAL ENGAGEMENT In our role as real estate fund manager, we are also 64% 62% 54% 57% 57% 56% 54% social developers and we take that responsibility in full earnestness, in all ways we can. In addition to our daily work, Niam supports BRIS (Children’s Right in Society) and ECPAT, both with the goal to pro36% 38% 46% 43% 43% 44% 46% tect and strengthen the rights of children. Niam also support Stockholm’s Stadsmission (Stockholm’s City 2013 2014 2015 2016 2017 2018 2019 Mission), a non-profit association caring for people Men Women caught in homelessness and addiction. The organizations are chosen annually by a voting in the manCARING ABOUT PEOPLE agement team, which have resulted in a reoccurring Niam endeavors to provide a secure workplace, both devotion to the organizations for children in need. physically and psychologically, for our employees and those who work on behalf of us in our properties 11 NIAM is transparency and responsibility ”Niam is a signatory to the UN Global Compact and the UN Principles of Responsible Investment and we report annually to the Global Real Estate Sustainability Benchmark” We understand the importance of being a responsible and transparent property manager, therefore, we work with several global and local stakeholders and regulatory authorities to continuously improve our transparency. With this report we communicate our progress as signatory to the UN Global Compact. In 2016, we also became a signatory to the UN Principles of Responsible Investment and take part of their annual assessment in which we once again received grade A in the Property module for 2019. We also report to the Global Real Estate Sustainability Benchmark (GRESB) in order to properly measure and communicate our sustainability efforts in the Niam Nordic Core-Plus funds. HOW WE MANAGE RISK management is reflected in our Management System To improve transparency, Niam has also been a where our operating processes are documented and member of the European Association for Investors reviewed regularly. The Management System was in Non-Listed Real Estate Vehicles (INREV) since certified in 2009 according to the ISO standard of 2003, supporting their objective to improve quality, 9001:2004, and environment, 14001:2008. In transparency, professionalism and best practices 2017 our Management System was updated according across the real estate sector in order to make the asset to the new standards, ISO 9001:2015 and 14001:2015. class more accessible and attractive to investors. With the INREV goals and our investors’ interests Through that, we adopt a process-driven approach in mind, we are working to integrate INREV’s when developing, implementing and improving recommended reporting initiatives. Our Core-Plus the effectiveness of a qualityand environmental funds also comply with INREV’s reporting guidelines management system, including risk management, in interim financial reporting. to enhance customer satisfaction and performance. All of our financial reporting also follows local Niam annually conducts a PESTLE analysis in order GAAP and IFRS financial reporting standards. Our to monitor macro-environmental (Political, Economic, commitment to rigorous internal controls and risk Social, Technological, Legal and Environmental) 12 Copenhagen Towers, Denmark factors that may be a potential risk to our business. made in April 2012, and Niam AB is subject to the U.S. The PESTLE analysis is then reviewed, and relevant Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC). In 2014, issues are incorporated in the business plan as actions. Niam AB was registered as an Alternative Investment Fund Manager pursuant to the Directive on Alternative CODE OF CONDUCT, RESPECT FOR PEOPLE Investment Fund Managers (AIFMD) and also became AND BUSINESS a subject to the Swedish Financial Supervisory Niam has adopted a Code of Conduct which Authority. The AIFMD controls our organization, incorporates the Niam values to ensure that all functions and processes and requires, for example, company activities comply with the highest that we have an independent function for risk standards of ethics and integrity and are fully in and compliance, valuations of our assets and an accordance with all applicable laws. The Code of independent internal audit function. It also requires Conduct establishes standards to govern the us to provide quarterly reports to the Swedish actions of all company employees, officers and Financial Supervisory Authority. Niam was the directors and all Niam personnel are responsible first real estate private equity firm to complete this for understanding its content. Key aspects of the registration in Sweden. Risk Management is one of Code of Conduct include fair treatment and privacy the primary purposes of the AIFMD and by being policies, conflict of interest, anti-corruption, antiregistered as an AIFM, Niam has a structured way of money laundering policies and the sustainability identifying and managing risks, which benefits all statement. All employees have been trained on of our stakeholders but most importantly our issues related to the Code of Conduct. Niam fully investors. All Niam employees are trained regularly complies with GDPR. in risk management and compliance. REGULATORY AND FINANCIAL AUTHORITY OVERSIGHT Niam AB is an Exempt Reporting Adviser under the US Investment Advisers Act of 1940. The initial registration pursuant to the Dodd Frank Act was 13 NIAM is getting better and greener ”Niam constantly strives to reduce its impact on the environment and sets targets on each individual fund” Since 2009, Niam has had an ISO 14001 certified environmental management system and proactively focused on managing our environmental impact to further enhance our financial performance. Our first step was to establish the proper criteria for regularly measuring our environmental impact and when the appropriate measurements were identified, we introduced energy targets. In 2017 our Management System was updated according to the new standard ISO 14001:2015. Niam constantly strives to reduce its impact on the environment and sets targets on each individual fund in order to do so. The target for 2019 was e.g. to perform environmental and energy assessments for all properties within the Core Plus II fund. In fund VI the target was to design the two development projects; Stockholm Harbor Front Development and Näsby Castle Residential Development, in order to reach Breeam Very Good at a later stage. These targets are included in each fund’s business plan which is followed up on a quarterly basis. AN ALL-ENCOMPASSING Additionally, the system helps us identify and ENVIRONMENTAL POLICY prioritize the most effective measures to reduce Niam Green is Niam’s corporate initiative to reduce our carbon footprint. its environmental impact. The policy guides Niam’s employees as well as its business partners ESG BENCHMARK THROUGH GRESB to develop more sustainable properties. The policy Niam annually report the Core-Plus II fund to GRESB involves property certifications, energy saving (Green Real Estate Sustainability Benchmark) in measures and other initiatives such as preventing order to benchmark our ESG performance against the usage of hazardous materials. our peers. GRESB Real Estate Assessment is the global standard for ESG benchmarking and reporting ONLINE PERFORMANCE MONITORING for listed property owners, private property funds, In order to monitor our properties’ performance developers and investors that invest directly in real in terms of energy consumption, Niam uses the softestates around the world. The result gives us guidware system Mestro. Mestro electronically reads the ance and tools how we can improve performance meters in our properties and collects the data into an and manage ESG risks and opportunities. In recent online portal. The system enables us to store, analyze, years, the report has also included increased focus on diagnose and better report all consumption data. health and well-being among tenants and employees within the company. 14 Aviabulevardi Office Property II, Finland 15 Stockholm Harbor Front Development Stockholm Harbour Front project is located in the harbor Värtahamnen which is a part of Stockholm Royal Seaport, the largest urban development area in Sweden with at least 12,000 new homes and 35,000 workplaces. Planning work started in the early 2000s and the new city district will be fully developed around 2030. The area runs along the waterline of the Baltic Sea, lies next door to the Royal National City Park and is just ten minutes away from central Stockholm by bicycle. The old harbour area with industry and storage is being transformed to an attractive neighbourhood with residential and office buildings as well as new service, shopping, schools, parks, roads and public transportation. Stockholm Harbor Front Development is a We will develop Stockholm Harbor Front Development development project consisting of one existing hotel to a property that will have and promote: and office building to be refurbished and two new • Climate-friendly and green outdoor environment office buildings to be constructed. The size of the • Sustainable energy system project is approximately 60,000 sqm of lettable area. • Sustainable recycling system • Sustainable water and sewage system ”The area has been pointed • Sustainable transport • Environmentally friendly buildings out as a profile • Sustainable lifestyles area for social and • Sustainable activities • Digital infrastructure environmental sustainability” Stockholm municipality is planning to approve a new detailed zoning plan for Stockholm Harbor Front Development by the end of 2020. The construction is planned to be ready in 2023/2024. 16 Stockholm Harbor Front Development, Sweden 17 NÄSBY CASTLE RESIDENTIAL DEVELOPMENT – Large biodiversity in landscape design Another project where we are focusing on sustainable – Soil depth and vegetation to infiltrate and development is Näsby Castle Residential Development. purify rainwater Examples are: – Fauna pods (dead wood), insect hotels and birdhouses for insects / animals to live in • Local heating system that provides heat to – Solar cells to produce electricity for the house homes and commercial buildings through mainly sea and rock heat – A place for both activity and contemplation for tenants on the roof terraces • Inventories of natural values both on land and in water, bat inventories, bird nesting inventories and environmental impact description that ROOFTOP TERRACE resulted in several measures, for example: Stockholm Harbor Front Development will meet – Fauna pods (dead wood) high sustainability requirements, use new technology – Keep area along the shore untouched and will therefore be a leading project in Stockholm. (both on land and in water) It will also become certified according to BREEAM – Keep old trees untouched (good for In-Use. SHFD is expected to be a model and show insects, lichens and mosses) the way towards a more sustainable future and – Sow meadow land (good for insects) add value to the building for the tenants, owner – Place new buildings where they do and society at large. not impair natural values – Open and local rainwater facilities are made Location: Stockholm, Sweden Property Type: Multi-let office/hotel buildings Freehold/leasehold: Freehold and leasehold Number of Properties / Size: 3 / 60,800 sqm Certification: BREEAM In-Use – Very Good in refurbished and Excellent in new construction Main tenants: Scandic Hotel (refurbished) 18 Stavanger HQ Property, Norway NIAM is measuring performance Through Niam’s environmental management system, we monitor and evaluate energy and water consumption each year. By keeping track of our buildings’ energy consumption, we can clearly target our actions to reduce the impact on the environment. NIAM’S ENERGY AND WATER COSTS ENERGY CONSUMPTION During 2019, energy and water consumption The total energy consumption of Niam’s properties represented 26% of total operating expenditures. in 2019 was approximately 80 GWh1. 4% Energy consumption in all Niam funds kWh/sqm Other costs 164 11% 11% Electricity 74% 154 Heating/Cooling Water and sevage 160 162 154 151 144 2016 2017 2018 2019 1 In a few cases, when the tenant owns the contract, we still have no access to the data. Those cases are excluded in the diagram to the right. We have also excluded residential properties and properties located in Poland. 19 “Building certifications should be pursued when they are financially sound for new construction and major renovations” During this year we have been able to receive historical All water used in our properties is from the municipal data for some of those buildings where the tenant owns water supply and consumption is measured at least their own electricity and heating contracts. This gives annually. Water readers are often read manually more substance when analyzing our consumption. instead of electronically as is the case for the electricity and heating meters. In those cases, we request the Many of the properties we buy in the Core-Plus funds property managers to report the consumption data. are newly built, hence adjusting the consumption to . an optimal level takes at least a year. We expect the WASTE MANAGEMENT energy consumption to stabilize and decrease once it Monitoring waste consumption and weighing has been adjusted to optimal levels for the buildings. waste is not possible in all locations where Niam is operating. However, property managers are requested A comparison of the same group of individual to have waste management policies in place and to properties over several years is not feasible since regularly follow up and improve where applicable. Niam is a transaction intensive company where many Waste is mainly generated by our tenants’ operations acquisitions and divestments take place each year. and therefore it is important that our tenants have the facilities required to sort their waste. In cases The total consumption corresponded to approximately where Niam is involved in construction work, waste 12,100 tons of carbon emissions2. In order to decrease management is agreed with the construction firm. consumption, objectives are set in those properties where we can identify a saving potential. When we BUILDING CERTIFICATIONS IN PLACE succeed in decreasing our energy consumption by As part of our internal guidelines, Niam Green, making small adjustments in our properties it is not building certifications should be pursued when they only a financial gain, it has also an impact on our are financially sound for new construction and major environmental performance. Energy consumption renovations. A sustainability target in our Core-Plus by sqm has decreased compared to previous years funds is to perform and evaluate energy and for our opportunistic funds and increased for our environmental inventories on all newly acquired Core Plus funds. assets. The result is a good foundation when deciding 2 Carbon emissions are calculated using a standard to perform energy saving project or enter a certification method from Energimarknadsinspektionen (250,76g/kWH) process. Niam has not committed itself to any specific certification but uses the type of certification that is WATER USAGE most suitable in each individual case. As of December In 2019, Niam’s properties have in total consumed 2019, Niam had 27 buildings that represent 54% of 85,000 m3 compared to 58,000 m3 in 2018. The total possessions3. consumption increase is a result of last year’s 3 Residential properties excluded expanded property portfolio, our water consumption per square meter continues to decrease. Building certifications 2019 Water consumption in all funds 2% 2% m3/sqm 0.45 12% Not certified LEED 33% Bream 0.25 22% In process DNGB 29% Green Building 0.40 0.31 0.30 0.00 2017 2018 2019 20 Kolding Office Property, Denmark Widening the certification scope “Work environment is being integrated in environmental building certifications” During the past couple of years, we have seen a System, fitted to the Danish building regulations noticeable increase in demand for environmental and traditions. Three of the buildings will recieve actions in our properties, both from our tenants and the certification DGNB Silver and two will investors. Sustainability efforts also often contributes recieve DGNB Gold. to added value in the property. One trend in sustainable real estate is the increased focus on wellness Kolding Office Property is a business park located in aspects of today’s workplaces, for example light, Kolding, a 2.5-hour drive to Copenhagen, Denmark. space for health and wellbeing activities and indoor It consists of five separate buildings where 12% of air quality. These are included in some environmental the total lettable area is storage and 88% is office certifications, like the DGNB certification by the space. One of the buildings are built as a green German Green Building Council. The DGNB System building with top energy classification and indoor provides an objective description and assessment of climate. The business park has 12 tenants of which the sustainability of the buildings’ entire life cycle. several have been in the buildings since completion There are up to 50 criteria from the quality section with high satisfaction. that can be certified, such as local environmental impact, indoor air quality and emissions controls. Location: Kolding, Denmark During 2019, Niam proceeded, together with a Property Type: Office consultant, with an inventory to explore the DGNB Freehold/Leasehold: Freehold certification potential in a selection of our properties. Number of Properties / Size: 2 (5 buildings) / It was found that several existing properties match 24,529 sqm the high requirements, and by taking some extra, Certification under evaluation: Three properties for finetuning measures they could obtain one of the top DGNB Silver and two for DGNB Gold gradings. The positive outcome has resulted in an Main tenant: Velux, Vattenfall and LM Wind Power initiated certification of five separate buildings, Kolding Office Property, according to the DGNB 21 From global principles to local stakeholder expectations OUR COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS Our Code of Conduct covers fair treatment and Since May 2017, Niam AB are signatories to the UN privacy policies, conflict of interest, anti-corruption, Global Compact (UNGC) and we are engaged on a anti-money laundering, anti-bribery policies and a signatory level. We thereby commit ourselves to make sustainability statement, and is aligned with the progress in our sustainability efforts, in line with principles of Global Compact. the UN Global Compact’s 10 principles. This report constitutes our third Communication on Progress STAKEHOLDERS AND OUR USE OF (COP) and in our UNGC reference table we explain REPORTING GUIDELINES the linkages between the principles and our reporting. Our key stakeholders are Niam employees, The report is accessible to the public on our website subcontractors, municipal politicians and officers, and in the UN Global Compact participant portal. tenants, debt providers, investors and regulatory authorities. Our debt and equity providers, some In our reporting to Global Compact we also report on of which are signatories of the UN Principles for the linkages between our business and the SustainaResponsible Investment (PRI), show an increasing ble Development Goals (SDG). In 2018, we made an focus on responsible investment and our sustainability overall analysis of those linkages. In the analysis we report is a tool for communicating our focus on found there are 10 SDGs with related targets that link sustainability initiatives and responsible investments. to our business in a significant way. This includes issues related to the workplace we offer to our A task group, consisting of representatives from fund employees, where the targets related to the working management, project development, investor relations environment and gender equality are the most and external experts (TomorrowToday), were involved relevant. In relation to our business idea, which is in defining the scope and content of our sustainability to develop and manage properties in funds, targets report. We keep an ongoing dialogue with experts, to related to resource efficiency are those of highest follow any changes in what can be seen as material isrelevance. We also see that as we develop our sues, as well as to continuously improve our reporting. properties we can positively contribute to the diffusion of new smart technologies. With our Niam has been reporting to GRESB since 2012. ethical standards, our systematic approach to We find the GRESB framework to be highly relevant managing risks and being transparent, we address when defining the content of this report, as it has the target related to anti-corruption. been developed to meet investor expectations regarding their assessment of environmental, social and governance performance. 22 When determining the relevant sustainability associated definitions are in accordance with GRESB objectives for Niam, we focus on aspects related to unless otherwise stated. Niam as a company, Niam’s employees and the impact on our properties and their tenants. For determining The report covers real estate performance significant environmental aspects, Niam has used the measurements for Niam Funds with the exception Swedish government’s 16 environmental quality of our residential properties, Poland properties and objectives as a framework. In 2018, the management Hyllinge Retail Property. Hyllinge Retail Property and system was re-certified by LR according to the Residential Properties are excluded since Niam has a latest standard, ISO 14001:2015. As we made the limited opportunity to influence utility performance transition, we made a thorough review of our and purchasing policies. The Polish properties are environmental aspects. excluded since Mestro does not support gathering of data from the Polish suppliers of energy. SCOPE OF DATA This is our fifth sustainability report. All data reported Data concerning employees covers all operations is for the fiscal year 2019 unless otherwise stated. of Niam AB. For joint ventures and co-owned There have been no significant changes regarding the properties, data is presented pro rata to the respective size, structure or ownership of Niam, nor have there fund’s ownership. LEED®, and its related logo, is a been significant changes from the previous reporting trademark owned by the U.S. Green Building period regarding scope and measurement methods or Council® and is used with permission. The same any re-statements of information stated in the earlier applies to any other logos used in this report. report. The real estate performance measurements and REFERENCE TABLE PRINCIPLES PAGE REFERENCE AND COMMENTS Human Rights All major contracts include a commitment Principle 1: Businesses should support and respect the protection to Niam’s Code of Conduct. Fair of internationally proclaimed human rights; and employment practice is a cornerstone Principle 2: make sure that they are not complicit in human rights abuses. of our Code of Conduct. p. 10–13. Labour All major contracts include a commitment Principle 3: Businesses should uphold the freedom of association to Niam’s Code of Conduct. Fair and the effective recognition of the right to collective employment practice is a cornerstone bargaining; of our Code of Conduct. p. 10–13. Principle 4: the elimination of all forms of forced and compulsory labour; Principle 5: the effective abolition of child labour; and Principle 6: the elimination of discrimination in respect of employment and occupation. Environment Niam has an environmental Principle 7: Business should support a precautionary approach to policycovering these principles. environmental challenges; p. 14, p. 19–20. Principle 8: undertake initiatives to promote greater environmental responsibility; and Principle 9: encourage the development and diffusion of environmentally friendly technologies. Anti-corruption Niam has a zero-tolerance to bribery and Principle 10: Businesses should work against corruption in all its forms, corruption. We uphold all laws relevant to including extortion and bribery. countering bribery and corruption in all the jurisdictions we operate, including but not limited to the UK Bribery Act 2010 as well as Swedish and US law. p. 12–13. 23 For further questions regarding this report, its content or Niam in general please contact: RIKARD HENRIKSSON Head of Asset management, Sustainability Manager Tel +46 8 5175 8563 rikard.henriksson@niam.se JENNIFER ANDERSSON COO, Head of Investor Relations & Business Development, Quality Manager Tel +46 8 5175 8559 jennifer.andersson@niam.se Niam AB – Stureplan 3, STOCKHOLM | Box 7693 | Tel +46 8 51 75 85 00 | www.niam.com
