Annual and Sustainability Report 2019 Intelligent security for a safer world ABOUT SECURITAS An eventful year Securitas is in a period of accelerated transformation, from the leader in guarding services and protective services towards leadership in intelligent services. We have an attractive offering of protective services, including on-site, mobile and remote guarding, electronic security, fire and safety, and corporate risk management. With operations in 56 countries in Europe, North America, Latin America, Africa, the Middle East and Asia, we have the power of presence, and our 370 000 skilled and engaged employees make a difference for our clients every day. Securitas clients’ are found in all different industries and they are of all sizes. We adapt our security solutions based on the risks and needs of each client through increased client engagement and continuously enhanced knowledge. To enhance efficiency and productivity we are modernizing and digitizing our operations. We are also investing in intelligent products and services, both by improving existing services and by developing new ones. 370 000 EMPLOYEES 56 NUMBER OF COUNTRIES WITH OPERATIONS 110 899 TOTAL SALES, MSEK 150 000 NUMBER OF CLIENTS (EXCLUDING MONITORING-ONLY CLIENTS) 150 NUMBER OF GLOBAL CLIENTS 89% CLIENT RETENTION RATE 9.20 EARNINGS PER SHARE, SEK 4.80 PROPOSED DIVIDEND, SEK 0.19 FREE CASH FLOW 2.2 NET DEBT TO TO NET DEBT EBITDA RATIO Securitas Annual and Sustainability Report 2019 Content ABOUT SECURITAS 2019 in two minutes 2 CEO statement 4 Market and trends 6 Value creation 10 Targets 12 The Global goals 13 OUR STRATEGY Empowered people 16 Client engagement 17 Protected services and innovation 18 Efficiency 19 OUR OPERATIONS Customer segments 24 Our responsibilities 30 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE AND MANAGEMENT Compliance with the Code 32 Comments by the Chairman 33 Securitas governance model 34 Board of Directors 40 Group Management 42 Enterprise risk management 44 and internal control ANNUAL REPORT Report of the Board of Directors 57 Consolidated financial statements 68 Notes and comments to the consolidated financial statements 75 Parent Company financial 128 statements Notes and comments to the Parent Company financial statements 131 Signatures of the 138 Board of Directors Auditor’s report 139 SUSTAINABILITY NOTES 144 Assurance report 158 Quarterly data 160 The Securitas share 162 Financial information and invitation 164 to the Annual General Meeting This is a translation of the original Swedish Annual Report. In the event of differences ­between the English translation and the ­Swedish original, the Swedish Annual Report shall prevail. 2019 IN TWO MINUTES 2019 in two minutes 2019 was a good year for Securitas. Organic sales growth was 4 percent (6) and the operating margin was stable at 5.2 percent (5.2). HIGHLIGHTS DURING THE YEAR • A strategic transformation ambition was set – to double our security solutions and electronic security sales by 2023, compared with 2018 • Sales of security solutions and electronic security represented 21 percent of total sales in 2019, a growth with 10 percent compared with 2018 • The two major transformation programs in the further digitization of the company are progressing according to plan • Major acquisitions included Global Elite Group, a security services provider to the aviation industry in the US, the electronic security company Allcooper Group in the UK and Staysafe, an alarm monitoring company in Australia KEY RATIOS MSEK 2017 2018 2019 Sales 92 197 101 467 110 899 Organic sales growth, % 5 6 4 Operating income before amortization 4 697 5 304 5 738 Operating margin, % 5.1 5.2 5.2 Income before taxes 4 018 4 028 4 618 Net income for the year 2 751 3 021 3 362 Earnings per share, SEK 7.53 8.26 9.20 Free cash flow 2 290 1 884 3 268 Free cash flow to net debt ratio 0.19 0.13 0.19 Net debt to EBITDA ratio 2.0 2.3 2.2 Dividend per share, SEK 4.00 4.40 4.80* Sales of security solutions and electronic security, % of total sales 18 20 21 Sales of security solutions and electronic security, growth % 19 21 10 * Proposed dividend Diagram_BV_sid 117 / 1 Diagram_BV_sid 117 / 2 Diagram_BV_sid 117 / 3 TOTAL SALES AND OPERATING INCOME EARNINGS ORGANIC SALES GROWTH BEFORE OperatingAMORTIZATION income PER SHARE Total sales and beforeOPERATING AND amortization MARGIN organic sales growth and operating margin Earnings per share MSEK % SEK MSEK % 120 000 10 10.00 6 000 5.5 100 000 8 5 000 5.3 8.00 80 000 6 4 000 6.00 5.1 60 000 3 000 4 4.9 4.00 40 000 2 000 20 000 2 4.7 2.00 1 000 0 0 0 4.5 0 15 16 17 18 19 15 16 17 18 19 15 16 17 18 19 Organic sales growth, % Operating margin, % 2 Securitas Annual and Sustainability Report 2019 2019 IN TWO MINUTES LEADING GLOBAL AND LOCAL PRESENCE Securitas meets the clients’ needs with a high-quality protective services offering, a leading global and local presence, skilled employees and strong values. NORTH AMERICA EUROPE Organic sales growth was 4 percent (6) Organic sales growth was 2 percent (4) Security solutions and electronic security sales repreSecurity solutions and electronic security sales represented 18 percent (17) of total sales sented 22 percent (21) of total sales The operating margin improved to 6.2 percent (6.1) The operating margin was 5.5 percent (5.6) The client retention rate was 90 percent (91) The client retention rate was 90 percent (93) 48 499 47 248 NORTH AMERICA EUROPE SALES IN 2019 (MSEK) SALES IN 2019 (MSEK) 121 000 124 000 NUMBER OF EMPLOYEES NUMBER OF EMPLOYEES 13 099 IBERO–AMERICA AMEA 61 000 NUMBER OF EMPLOYEES SALES IN 2019 (MSEK) 64 000 NUMBER OF EMPLOYEES IBERO–AMERICA AMEA Organic sales growth was 14 percent (12) The organic sales growth was favorable and Security solutions and electronic security sales margins improved in 2019 represented 27 percent of total sales (27) T  wo strategic acquisitions were completed The operating margin in­creased to 4.7 percent (4.5) in Australia, in electronic security and alarm monitoring The client retention rate was 92 percent (92) A large consolidated security contract across the AMEA reg­ion, with focus on Asia was won Securitas Annual and Sustainability Report 2019 3 CEO STATEMENT Transforming from a position of strength 2019 was an important year for Securitas. We grew faster than the market and we generated the highest cash flow in the history of the company. We started implementing our strategy to be the leader in intelligent security and presented our ambition to double our security solutions and electronic security business by 2023. We also defined our purpose as a company and introduced the leadership team that will drive the transformation during the next phase. We are undertaking these changes from a position of strength – with a leading global and local presence, and the best offering and employees in the industry. GROWTH AND INVESTMENTS achieve this desired position: 1) client engagement 2) sharpening We are continuously working to deliver high quality and added our protective services leadership and innovation, and 3) efficiency. value to our clients. In 2019, we had 4 percent organic sales growth. Security solutions and electronic security sales grew CLIENT ENGAGEMENT with 10 percent and now represent 21 percent of our total sales. Our strategy is geared towards creating added value for our The operating margin was 5.2 percent. We are making significlients. Our decentralized operating model allows us to remain cant investments in our strategic transformation and in creating close to our local clients, which in turn enables close engagethe most attractive client offering. These investments will reinment and the ability to continuously develop the service offering force our leading position and help drive growth and profitability to address each client’s specific needs and risks. improvements in the long term. We have 150 000 clients and a client retention rate that is The positive momentum continued across all business units in steadily around 90 percent. This is proof that our clients value Security Services North America, with solid growth and improved the quality of our services and our relationship, but we can operating margins. In Security Services Europe, most countries always do better. One measure is to invest in an improved performed well but growth and profitability were negatively client engagement model. This will help us leverage best pracimpacted by contract losses and price and wage imbalances in a tices and bring consistently better quality and value to our few countries. We had a strong finish to the year in Security Serclients. During the year, we also created a global client organivices Ibero-America and continued favorable growth and devezation to further strengthen our offering to clients who require lopment in our Africa, Middle East and Asia (AMEA) division. consistent protective services of high quality across different Earnings per share improved by 4 percent, after adjustments countries and geographies. for changes in exchange rates, items affecting comparability, IFRS 16 and the impact from the US tax reform. PROTECTIVE SERVICES LEADERSHIP AND INNOVATION With a record-breaking operating cash flow of MSEK 4 902, We focus on security services and creating long-term value. we strengthened our balance sheet and our net debt to EBITDA This is what we do best, and we generate the highest value for ratio decreased to 2.2. our clients by combining different protective services into soluAcquisitions play an important role in strengthening our protions that are based on a risk assessment and the client’s needs. tective services offering and accelerating our strategic transforWe are growing faster than the market thanks to our global premation. During 2019, we completed acquisitions in Australia, the sence, leading offering and the high-quality services that our UK and the US, together with some smaller acquisitions in other competent employees deliver to our clients every day. key markets. We are very pleased to welcome all new employees For the next development phase, we have identified a to the Securitas team. number of focus areas that will improve our offering to our clients and drive innovation. The first involves strengthening our BUILDING STRENGTH FOR THE FUTURE core operations. Guarding represents 77 percent of our busiThe strategy that we defined and communicated five years ago, ness, and we are now sharpening the efficiency of our guarding Vision 2020, has been successful. We are now launching the operations in order to continue to deliver the best-quality servinext phase. This phase does not represent a change in the ces. Electronic security is another significant focus area, and we direction of the strategy, but rather an evolution, including are well positioned to compete in this market with increasingly investments to further strengthen our protective services leadstrong capabilities and an outstanding team. ership and accelerate data-driven innovations for enhanced serWe see a future which is increasingly knowledge focused, vices for our clients. and this will require a vast local presence and access to large Our desired position is to become the intelligent protective serquantities of data. Our global and local presence gives us a vices partner for our clients. We are focusing on three areas to unique capability to generate data. We can use this information 4 Securitas Annual and Sustainability Report 2019 We help make your world a safer place. to improve our knowledge, and the understanding of what might Securitas continues to support the UN Global Compact happen. Combined with our ability to respond quickly, this puts through a commitment to its ten principles. We also contribute us in a unique position in the industry. to the fulfillment of the UN Sustainable Development Goals. We are accelerating our strategy through innovation in intelliSustainability is integrated into our daily business and I believe it gent services, which will be an exciting part of our development adds value for our clients. during the coming years. A CLEAR PURPOSE EFFICIENCY During the strategy process, thousands of employees took part In 2019, we launched two major transformation programs that in workshops to define our purpose as a company. Based on will bring increased efficiency, modernization and innovation. their input, we defined our purpose: We help make your world a One is a global IT transformation program and the other a busisafer place. ness transformation program in North America. Both will span It is my conviction that a strong and clear purpose will make over several years, and we are progressing according to plan. us more successful as a business in the long term, which will Driving efficiency is important to free up resources that we can benefit not only our clients, employees and investors, but also invest in the business or to improve margins. society as a whole. To implement the strategy for the next phase, we created Our purpose will provide us with guidance in the decisions global functions with an enhanced focus on client engagement, that all 370 000 of Securitas’ employees make every day, from guarding and electronic security. We also made a number of leadstrategic decisions to daily operational decisions. A person who ership changes and are entering 2020 with a very strong team. feels proud of what they do and part of a bigger whole is always more engaged and will consequently create greater value for us WE PLAY AN IMPORTANT ROLE IN SOCIETY all. Attracting and retaining the right people and motivating them Securitas plays an important role in society, providing secuto stay with us is a critical factor behind our success. Contributing rity and safety in a sustainable way. We provide many people to making the world a safer place is a very strong motivator. with work opportunities, some as a first step into the labor Securitas’ people make a difference for our clients and market. As a responsible and reliable employer, we offer fair society every day. We have a strong offering and clear targets to wages and good working conditions, which also helps us to attdrive value creation. In short, we are in a very good position to ract and retain people who share our values and can provide lead the industry, now and in the future. excellent client service. We are taking the situation with the COVID-19 (Corona virus) Stockholm, March 18, 2020 outbreak very seriously and we are working closely with our clients to help them in these challenging times. The health and well-being of our employees is of course also a top priority. We have zero tolerance for misconduct of any type. We Magnus Ahlqvist investigate all alleged wrong-doings, if necessary with external President and CEO help. We are currently also reinforcing our compliance program. Securitas AB Securitas Annual and Sustainability Report 2019 5 MARKET AND TRENDS 6 Securitas Annual and Sustainability Report 2019 MARKET AND TRENDS Good growth opportunities The global security services market is projected to continue to grow even though the world economy is showing signs of a downturn. In developed markets, such as the US and western Europe, the growth potential lies in offering a full range of security services, including technology, that can be combined into tailored security solutions. The security systems integration market is expected to be BUSD 70 by 2021. The strongest overall growth is forecast in developing markets, with China and India as the main drivers. This growth will come mainly from guarding services, which are still expected to account for the largest share of sales growth in the coming years. Well-reputed multi­ national security companies will also have good opportunities to grow in the guarding segment as regulations to increase professionalism in developing markets are expected to improve clients’ and the public’s trust in these services. MARKET SIZE FOR SECURITY SERVICES 2019* 31 USD BILLION 36 36 USD BILLION 19 USD BILLION 12 USD BILLION USD BILLION NORTH AMERICA EUROPE ASIA* LATIN AMERICA AFRICA/MIDDLE EAST *Outsourced guarding: includes markets where Securitas is not present. Asia excluding Japan. FEW GLOBAL PLAYERS In many of our markets, our main competitors are small or medium-sized local players. Our main global competitors are G4S, Allied Universal and Prosegur. EMPLOYEES SALES Securitas Securitas G4S G4S Prosegur Prosegur Allied Universal Allied Universal Source: Securitas, Freedonia and IHS Markit Report. Securitas Annual and Sustainability Report 2019 7 MARKET AND TRENDS Global SENSITIVE INFRASTRUCTURE DIGITAL TRANSFORMATION trends TREND AND MARKET DRIVERS There is a growing awareness within both TREND AND MARKET DRIVERS Technology is transforming the security impacting the public and private sector of the need service market by enabling more remote to secure sensitive infrastructure from monitoring, intelligent services and even various disruptions. Manufacturing indupredictive security. In mature markets, syssecurity stries, airports, data centers, ports and tems integration is seeing particularly fast public transportation all rely on having a growth as the complexity of electronic well-functioning infrastructure. Disrupsecurity systems grows. Demand for tions can result in high costs and value-added services and opportunities in increased vulnerability. Innovative and the area of intelligent services is growing, The factors driving growth integrated security services and solutions fueled by continuous improvements in depend on the maturity of the are required to address these issues, video monitoring technology. Smart home along with specialized staff. products are providing consumers with the market, but we have identified ability to monitor their security systems via five main trends that are having OUR RESPONSE a smartphone or tablet, driving further the greatest impact on our At Securitas, we possess in-depth knowgrowth in the security market. ledge about specific client segments, global business. Our strategy such as public transportation, manufacOUR RESPONSE and our services and solutions turing or logistics. We have the expertise Securitas is expanding its electronic secuto create complex cross-border security rity capabilities as a response to a smarter, are aligned to address these solutions. Securitas has, for example, a more digital society. We offer a complete trends. strong aviation presence, providing range of security services, including elecadvanced security services and solutions tronic security, and are at the forefront of to airports and aviation companies around industry efforts to capture, analyze and the world. In January 2019, we acquired respond to data that is gathered electroGlobal Elite Group, a leading security sernically. The Securitas Operation Centers vices provider to the US aviation industry. have a central part in this work. We This acquisition is in line with our strategy ensure that data that we process on to expand in vertical markets. behalf of our clients, or regarding our employees or others, is protected. 8 Securitas Annual and Sustainability Report 2019 MARKET AND TRENDS GLOBALIZATION OF THE ECONOMY SOCIETAL TENSIONS URBANIZATION TREND AND MARKET DRIVERS TREND AND MARKET DRIVERS TREND AND MARKET DRIVERS Economic prosperity is fueling demand Real or perceived threats of criminal actiUrbanization is a continuing trend around for security services, with more assets to vity continue to drive demand for more the world and as more people move into protect and more end users with the security. The perception of crime remains cities, the inequality gap is widening, means to buy security services. Many high even though conventional crime has leading to both real and perceived criminal companies have expanded across national not actually increased in most countries activity. An expanding middle class and borders and modern technology enables and the number of terrorist and militant increased activity in building construction, complex and interoperable security sysincidents has fluctuated from year to year particularly in the emerging economies, are tems to be connected from anywhere in over the past decade. The public sector increasing the demand for security servithe world. China and India are expected to continues to outsource many security ces. The residential market is expected to be the fastest growing national markets for services to the private sector in the face show the fastest growth as electronic monisecurity services through 2022, while the of downsizing and cost-cutting programs toring equipment becomes more common. US will remain the world’s single largest as well as new and more complex threats In the commercial sector, multinational market for security services. that are challenging to handle. firms are adopting technologically advanced security solutions and services, partiOUR RESPONSE OUR RESPONSE cularly in the emerging urban areas of China Securitas can offer both the technology Securitas can offer security solutions and, and India. needed to change the face of security, if needed, extra services on short notice and the manpower. In addition to offering to the public sector. For example, we can OUR RESPONSE complex security systems that can be provide on-site guarding in public areas to Securitas continues to expand its presence controlled across borders, we have an support the work of the police force or for in urban areas around the world to ensure unmatched presence. With our approxinfrastructure such as public transportaclose proximity to clients. We have a strong imately 1 450 branch offices, we can tion. Through its presence, Securitas can presence in both mature markets and devemeet the needs of our clients both glocontribute to peace of mind in tense situaloping countries, and can provide advanced bally and locally. In 2019, we created tions. We also provide professional risk security systems and consulting services. three new functional units to develop a analysis and risk management services to We can also offer highly trained security global business approach and better addhelp tackle complex security issues. officers who are specialized in handling the ress the global market. increasing technological complexity of these new security systems. Securitas Annual and Sustainability Report 2019 9 VALUE CREATION SECURITAS OUR WAY OF WORKING Securitas is a global company that offers CLIENT CENTRIC the best protective services solutions in the We always start from the client’s perspective, focusing on inteindustry. Drawing on our long experience and raction to develop deep client relationships. By supplying the in-depth knowledge about security, we can right technology in combination with our employees’ knowcreate tailored solutions that meet our clients’ ledge and experience, a common way of working and a consiscomplex security needs. With operations in tent service delivery, security becomes more efficient and cost 56 countries in North America, Europe, Latin effective. The ongoing digitization of Securitas’ operations also America, Asia, the Middle East and Africa and enables us to offer our clients better analyses, risk assessments 370 000 employees, we serve over 150 000 and solutions for the preventive security work. clients of all sizes and from all industries with the aim to be their intelligent protective PEOPLE FOCUSED services partner. Securitas aims to be a responsible employer and we have the best and the most engaged employees in the industry. Our corporate culture is built on strong values and a flat organization that encourages an entrepreneurial mindset. People will always be the core of the security solution and we strive to develop our employees so that they can be at the right place with the right skills. DATA DRIVEN We leverage our scale and the large amount of operational data collected by our security officers and other sources to deliver results and value to our clients and employees. We take advantage of this data to develop better and more intelligent products and modern and efficient tools for our security officers. Controls and processes are in place so that the data that we collect is handled responsibly. OUR VALUE CREATION We help make your world a safer place Staying safe is one of the most fundamental human and we wear them with pride every day, symbolized needs. In a world where the threats to our safety is by the three red dots in our logo. ever increasing and becoming more complex, our commitment at Securitas to help our clients make Securitas is a modern, global company with highly their world a safer place is more relevant than ever. skilled people and high-tech security systems. But our basic beliefs remains unchanged. Everything we We set the highest professional standards, condo is based on our strong values, which have stantly looking for new technologies and we have helped ensure global success for decades. And our an uncompromising attention to work ethics. Our purpose is in essence why we put on our uniform strong values Integrity, Vigilance and Helpfulness every day with great pride: We help make your – form the basic principles for everything we do world a safer place. 10 Securitas Annual and Sustainability Report 2019 VALUE CREATION OUR OFFERING THE VALUES WE CREATE Corporate Risk CLIENTS Management • In-depth knowledge and specialization to meet clients’ security requirements Mobile Remote • Efficient and tailored security Guarding Guarding solutions to minimize interruptions in our clients’ businesses • Innovation and data-driven approach to enhance our offering EMPLOYEES Electronic On-Site • Stable employer with long-term Security Guarding focus • Fair wages and good working conditions Fire and Safety • Employee development through training and talent management SHAREHOLDERS • Long-term stable company • More attractive investment • Enhanced shareholder value SOCIETY • Safer communities • Reduced costs for disruptions • Fewer interruptions in critical functions Securitas Annual and Sustainability Report 2019 11 TARGETS Targets and targets fulfillment FINANCIAL TARGETS 4%* EARNINGS PER SHARE IMPROVEMENT 2.2 NET DEBT TO EBITDA RATIO 85% OPERATING CASH FLOW (2018: 12 percent*) (2018: 2.3) (2018: 60 percent) TARGET TARGET TARGET An annual average increase of 10 percent A net debt to EBITDA ratio of on average 2.5 An operating cash flow of 70 to 80% of operating income 9.17** 9.61** 7.87 ** 2.3 2.2 9.20 8.26 83 82 85 7.24 7.53 6.67 67 60 2015 2016 2017 2018 2019 2018 2019 2015 2016 2017 2018 2019 * Real change, adjusted for changes in exchange rates, items affecting comparability, IFRS 16 and the impact from the US tax reform ** Adjusted for items affecting comparability SUSTAINABILITY TARGETS 24% 8% SHARE OF FEMALE MANAGERS CHANGE IN INJURY RATE TARGET TARGET By 2021, the share of female managers 5 percent annual decrease of the at all levels should be at least the same Group injury rate (2019: increase with as the share of women in the total 8 percent). workforce, which was 22 percent in 2019. 12 Securitas Annual and Sustainability Report 2019 GLOBAL GOALS WE CONTRIBUTE TO UN’S SUSTAINABLE DEVELOPMENT GOALS Securitas supports the United Nation’s Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs) and we take the goals into consideration into our strategy work and in our daily operations. Securitas is also a signatory of the UN Global Compact. Our primary focus is on the following targets where we believe we have good possibilities for positive impact. We also believe that we can have an impact through a number of other goals. TARGET 5.1 AND 5.5: TARGET 8.8: GOAL 16 AND TARGET Securitas can also have a posiSecuritas is an equal opportuSecuritas is a large employer 16.5: tive direct or indirect impact nity employer and all employwith operations in many Safety and stability is key in a through the following goals: ees are to be treated fairly and countries around the world. well-functioning society. In an 3: GOOD HEALTH AND equally. Discrimination of We strive to be a stable and increasingly unpredictable WELL-BEING women and discrimination responsible employer that world, Securitas’ role is to help We work actively with health based on other characteristics offers good working condicompanies, infrastructure and and safety issues for our in hiring, compensation, traintions and opportunities to government authorities to employees, and also help ing, promotion, termination or grow. Decent labor practices, operate the way they are others while on assignment. retirement is never acceptable. the right to organize and intended, without interrup4: QUALITY EDUCATION: We believe that diverse work human rights are all vital to tions. The protection of workSecuritas has its own training groups contribute to better Securitas, our employees and places, public areas and procenters in most countries where business and we aim to in­c­ our clients. We work actively perties, carried out in a responwe operate, and we offer our rease the number of women in with health and safety issues sible way, plays an important employees a large number of management positions at all and our security officers part in how we contribute to a different courses and programs. levels in the company. receive training, instruction safer and more sustainable and equipment in line with the and productive society. 13: CLIMATE ACTION assignment, to minimize the Securitas also has a zero-toleWe work to continuously reduce health and safety risks. We do rance policy against all forms our climate impact, for example not accept any form of child of bribery and corruption. through reduced emissions labor or forced labor. from our vehicle fleet. 17: P ARTNERSHIP FOR THE GOALS: Securitas supports the achievement of the SDGs. Read more in the Sustainability Notes on pages 144-154. Securitas Annual and Sustainability Report 2019 13 OUR STRATEGY Taking Securitas into the future Securitas is well positioned for the future. The services we offer are more in demand than ever before, and the security market is growing globally. From this strong position, we have set new ambitious targets as well as a strategy and a new purpose to help us achieve those targets. Our aim is to be the intelligent protective services partner for our clients. 14 Securitas Annual and Sustainability Report 2019 OUR STRATEGY During 2019, we fine-tuned our strategy and updated our tarclients, at the same time as they strengthen our leading position gets (see page 12). Our strategic direction is designed to reinand profitability. In 2019, we continued to build on our protective force our leadership role and generate long-term value creation. services offering through the acquisitions of the Australian compaThe strategy will take us into the future with more intelligent nies Staysafe, an alarm monitoring company, and Fredon Security, security services and security solutions. At the same time, we specialized in high-end electronic security solutions. Security appreciate how crucial guarding services are for the company’s solutions and electronic security accounted for 21 percent of our continued success. Group sales in 2019, compared with 20 percent in 2018. To achieve our desired position as the intelligent protective services partner, we are continuing to strengthen our core guarLEADER IN INTELLIGENT SERVICES ding business, while also extending it through the addition of Data-driven innovations are now also changing the services that further protective services and solutions, including data-driven Securitas can offer, giving us the competitive edge. No other innovation in both existing and new products. security provider can offer our combination of electronic security services and guarding expertise. Investments in our technoLEADER IN GUARDING SERVICES logy infrastructure and in new competencies are helping us capWe have been a leader in guarding services for a long time curture, analyze and respond to data. This increases client value rently they account for 77 percent of Group sales and we have and operational efficiency. grown to expand our presence to support our clients where they At our Securitas Operation Centers, we have the ability to need us across the world. We are proud of our large and compegather large amounts of data from camera feeds, sensors, incitent workforce and continuously work to offer competitive dent reports and access controls that can help us with real-time wages and an attractive workplace. We will maintain our focus detection and better prediction of security incidents. We on guarding services by increasing specialization, training and recently piloted the Securitas Risk Prediction application, which efficiency, which will free up time for our branch managers to helps us assess risk at client sites. We have also launched spend directly with our clients. MySecuritas, a digital channel to our clients, which makes communication between the client, the branch manager and the LEADER IN PROTECTIVE SERVICES security officers seamless. These types of services are unique Over the last ten years, we have gradually enhanced our offering to Securitas, and we are continuing to work towards also becoby adding more protective services, and we are now able to offer a ming a leader in intelligent services. comprehensive portfolio of services including on-site, mobile and Together, these building blocks ensure that we will have remote guarding, electronic security, fire and safety, and corporate the best offering, the best people and the highest client risk management. These services enable our security officers to engagement, becoming our clients’ natural intelligent protective deliver comprehensive security solutions and add value for the services partner. Our focus areas To execute on our strategy to become the intelligent protective services partner, we are focusing on four areas: empowering our people, client engagement, protective services leadership and innovation, and efficiency. PROTECTIVE EMPOWERED CLIENT SERVICES AND PEOPLE ENGAGEMENT INNOVATION EFFICIENCY Our employees’ engagement, Client engagement is about Securitas has the most comWe are investing in our IT and pride and passion for their role finding ways to deepen our prehensive protective services business platforms to drive are vital for our continued client partnerships through an portfolio in the industry today efficiency across the company. market leadership. expanded value proposition, and we are further strengtheshared values and ethics. ning our offering. Securitas Annual and Sustainability Report 2019 15 EMPOWERED PEOPLE Our officers go the extra mile Service-minded, knowledgeable and vigilant are just some of the characteristics that describe our 370 000 employees working in 56 countries around the globe. We recognize that their engagement, pride and passion for their role are crucial for our continued market leadership. Our employees represent the company on a daily basis, and our unions in the skills and services sectors. company’s reputation is determined largely by their actions. Early We prioritize good working conditions for all of our employon, we recognized the need to have a management model, Secuees, and prior to accepting a contract with a client we evaluate ritas Toolbox, to provide guidance on our corporate culture and the working conditions at the client site to ensure decent practivalues. This helps ensure that our work methods, management ces and a healthy work environment. philosophy and client perspective are shared throughout the organization. It also helps ensure that our clients receive consisHEALTH AND SAFETY tent service, regardless of who they are or where they are located. Poor health and safety procedures put our employees at risk Our strong company culture has been built by emphasizing and can damage our brand reputation, and we work actively our core values of Integrity, Vigilance and Helpfulness, and by with occupational health and safety issues in all countries. We continuously stressing the importance of sound ethics and comcontinuously train our employees to ensure they can perform pliance. In 2019, we also added a purpose to articulate what we their tasks safely and have adequate equipment. Our security do and to further guide our employees in their daily work: We officers are trained not only to help themselves, but also to help help make your world a safer place. others while on assignment, for example by performing first aid and CPR and ensuring fire safety. Our security officers receive FAIR WAGES AND GOOD WORK ENVIRONMENT training at least annually, and in many cases even quarterly. Securitas supports the United Nation’s (UN’s) Sustainable Formal health and safety committees meet regularly, and Development Goals, focusing particularly on goals that directly client sites are assessed from a health and safety perspective. affect our employees, such as good working conditions and 22 countries of operation have received OHSAS 18001/ISO gender equality. 45001 certification, and most of our operations have a “nearOur market leadership is dependent upon attracting and miss” reporting system to help us identify safety hazards. Our retaining the best employees in a highly competitive industry. health and safety approach and knowledge have also become We aim to be the employer of choice by, among other things, part of the services we offer our clients. providing a good work environment and paying fair wages. In the UK, for example, we are working closely with the Living DIVERSITY AND INCLUSION Wage Foundation to end low pay in the lowest paid service secOne of our challenges is to increase gender diversity, which is one tors. Securitas UK offers a “Living Wage” option to all prospecof our main focus areas when it comes to achieving the UN’s Sustive and current clients. tainable Development Goals. Our target is to have at least the In the US, we are involved in industry associations such as same percentage of women in management positions at all levels the National Association of Security Companies (NASCO), an as we have in the total workforce. Securitas aims to achieve important stakeholder in ensuring good working conditions. We better diversity on all fronts, and is firmly committed to equal also maintain a dialogue with unions around the world and are opportunity and non-discriminatory practices for everyone. We have a global framework agreement with UNI Global Union, who conduct our business in accordance with international convenrepresents more than 20 million workers from over 900 trade tions such as the UN Universal Declaration of Human Rights. 16 Securitas Annual and Sustainability Report 2019 CLIENT ENGAGEMENT Closer to clients Our clients’ security needs are changing and shifting from manned guarding to security solutions featuring a combination of manned services and technology, supported by modern, data-powered tools. With the right team and assets, Securitas is in a strong position to meet these needs. Client engagement and deeper partnerships will help us lead the industry into the future. With our vast global presence we are never that far from our and Vertical Markets functional unit is responsible for our largest clients and prospective clients. Today we have 150 000 clients global clients and for developing specialization in new vertical (excluding monitoring only clients) and 150 global clients, inclumarkets. The Global Electronic Security Business Center is ding some of the largest companies in the world. responsible for developing a global business approach, with Securitas has a loyal customer base, with a retention rate of common tools, processes, products and services within electroclose to 90 percent and approximately 80 percent recurring nic security. The Global Guarding Center of Excellence will consales base. We are proud of this high retention rate, but do not tinue to strengthen our guarding core by developing global take our success for granted. We plan to strengthen our position expertise, common tools and processes. even further by focusing more on client engagement. Our global clients currently account for 13 percent of Securitas’ total sales and the number is growing due to STRONG CLIENT RELATIONS increased globalization. There are few other security providers Client engagement is about finding ways to deepen the relationwho can compete with us when it comes to global security ship with our clients. It requires a long-term perspective, intelliknowledge. gent data-driven solutions, global consistency in service delivery and the capability to scale from local to global solutions. VERTICAL MARKET SPECIALIZATION We have a market-leading position in several countries and took We are strengthening our solutions offering and working additional measures in 2019 to ensure that Securitas’ culture, towards solving problems based on global best practices. At the values and way of working are the same no matter where in the same time, we are able to adapt to the different needs of each world our clients are active. client through tailored solutions and vertical market specializaWe are combining our strong local empowerment and delition. One example of this is our aviation industry expertise. In very model with increased global consistency, which includes 2019, we increased our aviation knowledge and capacity further initiatives such as a global clients platform. We are also implethrough the acquisition of Global Elite Group, a security services menting a number of initiatives to establish best practices and provider to the US aviation industry with approximately 1 050 develop more digital, easy-to-use interfaces with clients. employees. The customer base includes more than 60 commercial airlines, among other aviation clients. NEW GLOBAL FUNCTIONAL UNITS With our in-depth understanding of each client’s business, In 2019, we created three global functional units to support our values and goals, we can develop security solutions and servistrategy and work with our global partners. The Global Clients ces tailored to their individual needs. Securitas Annual and Sustainability Report 2019 17 PROTECTIVE SERVICES AND INNOVATION Protective services for every security need The demand for security services continues to grow, and delivering high-quality solutions to our clients is the essence of what we do. We are therefore further strengthening our protective services through deeper specialization in each protective service combined with an even greater emphasis on selling and delivering solutions as well as adding data-driven innovation. RANGE OF PROTECTIVE SERVICES vices. Securitas’ size, presence and market position are all important Securitas has the most comprehensive protective services portfofactors that are enabling us to become data-driven, deliver intelligent lio in the industry today. Together with our large presence, this services and provide quick and adequate response to our clients. gives us a strong competitive advantage, and we see significant We are digitizing the client experience, often by co-developing potential to grow further in each protective service as well as in new solutions together with them. For example, we have created a solution sales. digitized client channel, MySecuritas, that delivers dynamic incident One of the biggest growth opportunities is in electronic reporting and business intelligence to our clients in digital form. It is security. All sectors, from data centers and transportation to also a digital distribution channel for our own and partner services healthcare and retail, utilize electronic security. This market is (see more on page 23). growing and is expected to be valued at USD 70 billion in 2021. The security officer work methods are also being digitized to The market for electronic security includes both systems inteimprove the quality and efficiency of our work. For our clients, this gration and alarm monitoring, and few other providers can commeans that they will be able to see clearly, and even in real-time, how pete with Securitas’ ability to offer both services. Today, we we deliver value to them. For our employees, it improves their work have electronic security capabilities in more than 30 countries experience as they can get better support from other connected and a global market presence. security officers in the field or in the SOC, Securitas Operation Center. With its broad portfolio and independent technology experThe digital interface makes it possible for Securitas to deploy tise, Securitas is a trusted advisor to our clients, offering them a new services in a quick, easy and consistent way. In parallel, we are one-stop-solution shop for all their security needs. By partneconstantly working to ensure that the data gathered is anonymized, ring with leading industry manufacturers and acquiring compastructured and utilized in line with data protection regulations and nies with additional competencies, we are able to provide the our own policies. full value chain, from sales, design and installation to maintenance, monitoring and response. Through acquisitions, we are ACQUIRING GLOBAL EXPERTISE also expanding our global footprint to leverage growth opportuIn 2019, we acquired two companies that will help us become the nities in line with our strategy. intelligent protective services partner in Australia. The purchase of the alarm monitoring company Staysafe is helping us to establish serINNOVATION vice delivery and innovative solutions, while the acquisition of Fredon Securitas is leading the transformation of the security industry Security adds to our capabilities in the area of high-end electronic from low-tech to high-tech. We are employing people with compesecurity solutions. tence in artificial intelligence, big data and digitized products, and We also acquired the electronic security company Allcooper together with our experienced security experts, they are develoGroup in the UK, a company specialized in the installation, mainteping new products and services as well as enhancing existing sernance and monitoring of security and fire systems. 18 Securitas Annual and Sustainability Report 2019 EFFICIENCY Efficiency a key priority Multiple programs are underway to drive efficiency within Securitas including the establishment of a new global IT platform and a business transformation program. These programs are helping us lead the transformation of the security industry. We are investing in our IT and business platforms to drive effiFURTHER MEASURES ciency across the company. Transforming the organization by We are also driving change through our business platforms to modernizing our technology and engaging in more collaboration improve our ways of working, best practice sharing and collaboand sharing of business practices will improve our capabilities ration. In 2019 we started a business transformation program in and increase our profitability. North America with the target of improving our operating margin by up to 0.5 percentage points by 2022. IS/IT PLATFORM Additional projects are under way to improve our service Securitas is investing in a modern, scalable IS/IT platform. This delivery and focus on providing support to both our salespeople is one of two major transformation programs that will increase and our clients. We are digitizing tools for our security officers efficiency and support the execution of our strategy. Our target and have a customer excellence program that includes a global is to reduce our current IT costs with MSEK 300 year-on-year client relationship management (CRM) system. by 2022 through this major investment in a data-driven technoTo achieve a more efficient back office, we are integrating logy platform. systems, reducing manual processes and improving our tools The multi-year transformation is well under way, and we for finance, HR and administrative work. Digital tools for the have already completed the merger of our IT operations in 56 “officer of tomorrow” offer another step in the right direction. countries into a leaner, global IT structure. The new structure Our transformation towards further efficiency is an ongoing procomprises two delivery hubs – one for the EMEA and APAC cess that will continue in the years to come. regions and the other in the Americas. We have also established 11 IT clusters that are spread around the globe. This restructuring ensures that our IT operations can support both global and local efforts in an optimal way. Securitas Annual and Sustainability Report 2019 19 OUR OPERATIONS Solving today’s and tomorrow’s security challenges Securitas is a global company that offers the best protective services solutions in the industry. Drawing on our long experience and in-depth knowledge about security, we can create tailored solutions that meet our clients’ complex security needs. With operations in 56 countries in North America, Europe, Latin America, Asia, the Middle East and Africa and 370 000 employees, we serve over 150 000 clients of all sizes and from all industries with the aim to be their intelligent protective services partner. CLIENT CENTRIC PEOPLE FOCUSED DATA DRIVEN We always start from the client’s perspecSecuritas aims to be a responsible We leverage our scale and the large tive, focusing on interaction to develop employer and we have the best and the amount of operational data collected by deep client relationships. By supplying most engaged employees in the industry. our security officers and other sources to the right technology in combination with Our corporate culture is built on strong deliver results and value to our clients and our employees’ knowledge and expevalues and a flat organization that encouemployees. We take advantage of this rience, a common way of working and a rages an entrepreneurial mindset. People data to develop better and more intelligent consistent service delivery, security becowill always be the core of the security products and modern and efficient tools mes more efficient and cost effective. The solution and we strive to develop our for our security officers. Controls and proongoing digitization of Securitas’ operaemployees so that they can be at the right cesses are in place so that the data that we tions also enables us to offer our clients place with the right skills. collect is handled responsibly. better analyses, risk assessments and solutions for the preventive security work. 20 Securitas Annual and Sustainability Report 2019 OUR OPERATIONS We have a valuable relationship with our Securitas partner that covers multiple levels of security needs. Rob Gray, Vice President Cox Enterprise Security CASE: CLIENT CENTRIC STRONG SECURITY PARTNER FOR COX AUTOMOTIVE Securitas has developed a customized security solution for Cox Securitas currently serves a large number of sites across the Automotive that includes a wide range of protective services. US and Puerto Rico, and Cox Automotive has become Securitas’ The company is currently Securitas’ largest remote guarding largest remote guarding client in North America. Together with client in North America. the client, Securitas has developed a customized security soluThe relationship between Cox Automotive and Securitas tion that includes electronic security, on-site, mobile and remote began just a few years ago, with Securitas providing guarding guarding as well as corporate risk management. This includes a services for Cox Automotive’s core business of automobile aucperimeter protection solution with high-definition outdoor IP tions. Cox Automotive is a division of Cox Enterprises based in cameras, a video management system and audio recording Atlanta, Georgia, and is one of the largest auto auction compacapabilities installed at Cox Automotive’s facilities. nies in the world. Cox Automotive is driven by a passion for The cameras send alerts to the Securitas Operation Center, mobility, innovation, client success and community outreach, where specially trained remote guarding officers investigate and and the company aims to make selling, owning and using cars respond as required for example, by dispatching mobile patrol easier for everyone. officers. The ability to integrate video analytics with guarding as Cox’s internal security team oversees physical security, well as physical perimeter barriers, provides a valuable solution investigations, business continuity, crisis management, data for Cox. governance, identity theft and loss prevention. The team works Securitas, in partnership with the security team at Cox, has closely with the senior leadership at Cox companies when it provided a comprehensive security solution resulting in both comes to recommending and advising on security policies and program efficiencies and cost savings. “We have a valuable relaprocedures. tionship with our Securitas partner that covers multiple levels of Securitas and Cox Automotive have a shared mission: to prosecurity needs. We look forward to a continued and successful tect a very large number of vehicles housed outdoors at wholepartnership in the future”, says Rob Gray, Vice President Cox sale auto auction sites in the US. Cox Automotive processes Enterprise Security. The partnership has improved Cox’s overall over half of all used cars in the US and the company needed to loss prevention program and client experience, and data proviimprove its security without adding significant labor costs. With ded by Securitas is aiding Cox in the strategic planning of their responsibility for the customer experience, site safety and the overall security program. physical security of auction vehicles, they face significant security threats. Managing the logistics of receiving and releasing vehicles requires a unique and detailed process and Securitas collaborated with Cox Automotive to implement the Securitas protective service solutions that meet the Cox’s specific needs. Securitas Annual and Sustainability Report 2019 21 OUR OPERATIONS We benefit from the fact that Securitas always is up to date with the latest technology development. Paul Gray, Chief Operating Officer, National Gallery CASE: PEOPLE FOCUSED THE ART OF ENGAGING EMPLOYEES Securitas has not only enhanced security at the National Gallery As a start, the 300 Securitas employees working with secuin London, but also helped provide a better visitor experience, rity at the National Gallery received further training and equipleading to higher membership sales. ment to allow for full communication between all security The National Gallery in London, UK, is one of the world’s departments. The different teams responsible for security in the best-known art galleries, with a history dating back to the gallery, in perimeter security and in alarm response now have 1820s. The gallery welcomes up to six million visitors per year efficient work routines and processes so that they can solve any and is committed to education, with an extensive program incluissues that arise in the best way possible. Incident response ding free public lectures, guided tours and seminars. The valuatimes are down to approximately 45 seconds, compared to a ble collections, in combination with the gallery’s ambition to be minute and a half under the former system. as accessible as possible to the general public, present quite a Securitas not only provides security to the National Gallery, challenge from a security perspective. but also runs all visitor engagement activities, which includes Securitas has been providing security and visitor engageselling tickets and membership packages. Being a public ment services to the National Gallery since 2015. The contract museum, the National Gallery must raise a large part of its funincluded taking over 350 employees who, up until then, had ding from commercial activities in order to meet its public sector worked directly for the museum. The transition was not entirely financial obligations. smooth, and job satisfaction went down after the change. At the A special training program, focusing on behavioral training beginning of 2018, Securitas appointed a new key account and sales training, was created for the visitor engagement team manager. Some time later, new sales and operations managers members. The result has exceeded everyone’s expectations as started at the National Gallery. Both the client and Securitas sales of memberships have gone up since Securitas took over, agreed that new solutions were necessary to make the contract from around 1 000 per year to nearly 10 000 in 2019. There successful and to increase employee satisfaction. It was also have been a number of challenges and obstacles along the way, important to establish good relations with the union represenbut together with the client, Securitas has created an efficient ting the employees. security solution with skilled and engaged employees. In June 2019, the National Gallery signed a five-year extenAs its biggest supplier and with a direct impact on the sion of its contract with Securitas, marking the start of a new way gallery’s day-to-day commercial revenues, Securitas is now of working at the gallery based on an integrated approach to seen as a vital partner in the National Gallery’s wider ambitions. technology and people. The common goal was enhanced secuWe are also very pleased that the National Gallery is a Living rity, a better visitor experience and increased efficiency. Securitas Wage client, which means that they are committed to paying engaged with the gallery’s different stakeholders, including exterwages that meet the cost of living. nal parties such as the Metropolitan Police, to explain the benefits of the proposed changes and get their support. 22 Securitas Annual and Sustainability Report 2019 OUR OPERATIONS With MySecuritas’ user-friendly interface clients can see what we are doing by providing a clear and immediate overview of what Securitas delivers to them, even when there are no incidents. Martin Althén, Chief Information Officer, Securitas CASE: DATA DRIVEN HIGHLY ACCURATE RISK PREDICTION Through machine learning and predictive data models, Securitas offers highly accurate, site-specific risk assessments. In a useris increasing its ability to understand the risk of security incidents, friendly interface, clients get a clear and immediate overview of both criminal and otherwise. This knowledge will change the the risk level across their operations, data that can be used to security services we deliver to our clients and give us a competiimprove efficiency. The service also provides information and tive edge. statistics about general risk levels across various areas and comA key element in Securitas’ strategy is to promote innovation parative indicators at the geographical level. The development of new services – a journey we have started with the aim of of new services always considers individuals’ integrity. becoming the intelligent protective services partner globally, In combination with sophisticated machine learning algoleading the transformation of the security industry. We are rithms, the collection of data from our more than 340 000 secuinvolving employees across Securitas as well as our clients in rity officers enables Securitas to better understand risk across this transformation. Our focus is to both enhance and augment the security spectrum. These industry-specific insights enable existing services and to bring new services to the market that our clients to manage their security more effectively as well as address the specific needs of our clients. To achieve this, it is optimizing Securitas’ service delivery and enabling us to proacfundamental that we extend our digital channels. tively deploy security officers and better advise our clients. As a In 2019, based on client interviews and in close collaboration security partner, this gives us a unique opportunity to differentiwith clients across various segments, Securitas launched MySeate ourselves from the competitors by demonstrating that curitas, a channel focused on small and medium-sized clients. Securitas is the knowledge leader in the security industry. Now in its first version, MySecuritas delivers dynamic incident reporting and business intelligence to our clients in digital form. In addition, it serves as a digital distribution channel for our services as well as those of our partners. Based on early data and feedback from clients, MySecuritas has been shown to enable increased client retention and fuel demand for additional service offerings. Altogether, the results are very encouraging. The second digital service distributed and launched through MySecuritas was a risk prediction module. Based on multiple datasets, statistical models and machine learning algorithms, this service can predict where and when security incidents are most likely to occur – in real time. By analyzing data from our own operations combined with open data sources, the service Securitas Annual and Sustainability Report 2019 23 OUR OPERATIONS 24 Securitas Annual and Sustainability Report 2019 OUR OPERATIONS The power of presence Securitas has a leading global and local market presence with operations in 56 countries. Our operations are organized in three business segments: Security Services North America, Security Services Europe and Security Services Ibero-America. We also have operations in Africa, the Middle East and Asia, which form the AMEA division. This division is reported as “Other” in our segment reporting. We believe that we add value to our clients by combining our SECURITY SERVICES IBERO-AMERICA global presence with local expertise in close to 1 450 branch Security Services Ibero-America provides protective services in offices. Securitas has a leading protective services offering nine Latin American countries as well as in Portugal and Spain in including on-site, mobile and remote guarding, electronic secuEurope. Airport security is offered in seven countries. The offered rity, fire and safety services and corporate risk management. Our services include on-site, mobile and remote guarding, electronic security services are managed and coordinated through 44 security, fire and safety services and corporate risk management. Securitas Operation Centers (SOC), where operators can quickly address our clients’ security issues. The information gathered by our SOCs provides our clients with high-quality security around the clock, along with analytics, analysis and client reports. SECURITY SERVICES NORTH AMERICA SALES PER SEGMENT EMPLOYEES PER SEGMENT Security Services North America provides protective services in of Group total of Group total the US, Canada and Mexico. The operations in the US are organized in four specialized units Guarding, Electronic Security, Pinkerton Corporate Risk Management and Critical Infrastructure Services. Guarding includes on-site, mobile and remote guarding and the unit for global and national accounts, as well as Canada and Mexico. There are also specialized client segment units, such as aviation, healthcare, manufacturing and oil and gas. SECURITY SERVICES EUROPE Security Services Europe provides protective services across █ Security Services █ Security Services Europe with operations in 27 countries, whereof 15 countries proNorth America 44% North America 33% vide airport security. The full range of protective services includes █ Security Services Europe 43% █ Security Services Europe 34% on-site, mobile and remote guarding, electronic security, fire and █ Security Services █ Security Services safety services and corporate risk management. In addition there is Ibero-America 12% Ibero-America 17% a specialized unit for global client contracts. █ Other (incl. AMEA) 1% █ Other (incl. AMEA) 16% SECURITAS’ MARKETS North America Europe ›› Germany ›› Romania Ibero-America Africa, Middle East and Asia (AMEA) ›› Canada ›› Austria ›› Greece ›› Serbia ›› Argentina ›› Australia ›› South Korea ›› Mexico ›› Belgium ›› Hungary ›› Slovakia ›› Chile ›› China ›› Sri Lanka ›› USA ›› Bosnia and ›› Ireland ›› Slovenia ›› Colombia ›› Egypt ›› Thailand Herzegovina ›› Latvia ›› Sweden ›› Costa Rica ›› Hong Kong ›› The United ›› Croatia ›› Luxembourg ›› Switzerland ›› Ecuador ›› India Arab Emirates ›› Czech Republic ›› Montenegro ›› Turkey ›› Panama ›› Indonesia ›› Vietnam ›› Denmark ›› The Netherlands ›› The United ›› Paraguay ›› Jordan ›› Estonia ›› Norway Kingdom ›› Peru ›› Morocco ›› Finland ›› Poland ›› Portugal ›› Saudi Arabia ›› France ›› Spain ›› Singapore ›› Uruguay ›› South Africa Securitas Annual and Sustainability Report 2019 25 OUR OPERATIONS NORTH AMERICA TRANSFORMATION AND solidation, something that requires us to set a goal of converting more than 25 perSPECIALIZATION engage in disciplined strategic planning cent of our North American fleet to electric Organic sales growth remained favorable and execution. vehicles by the end of 2020. We are also in 2019, despite the strong comparatives. Unemployment rates in North America actively seeking diverse suppliers. Our IT and business transformation initiaremain very low, making the labor market tives progressed according to plan. These challenging as employers compete to GOALS AND PRIORITIES IN 2020 activities will be the foundation for our attract top talent. To strengthen our In line with our strategy, we will fully levercontinued growth and value creation, with employer brand, we have introduced the age our vast data assets and advanced productivity improvements and efficiency SecuritasCommitment program, which analytics to increase productivity and gains in all operations. supports employee development and strengthen our service offering. We Specialization is also a focus area. In well-being. believe this will confirm our position as the 2019, we restructured the operations into leader in intelligent protective services. client segments and solution-specific busiA SUSTAINABLE BUSINESS Given our size in the security industry, we ness units that create synergy effects and In addition to SecuritasCommitment, we will continue to drive the implementation allow us to deliver tailored security soluoffer our employees development opporof fair wages and benefits for our security tions and expertise to our clients. At the tunities that help them carry out their officers. Diversity is also a prioritized area same time, we increased the number of assignments in the best possible way and to remain an employer of choice. branch managers. With smaller client portalso support the pursuit of other profesfolios, the branch managers can not only sional and personal goals. In the US, we spend more time with each client to better have an exclusive partnership with a uniSantiago Galaz understand their specific needs, but also versity to offer several security certificate Divisional President be closer to the security officers. programs as well as financial benefits to Security Services North America help our security officers earn associate Santiago Galaz was Divisional President Security Services North America until December 31, 2019. From January 1, 2020, THE MARKET and bachelor’s degrees. Santiago Galaz is Executive Chairman Security Services North America. The North American security market is Securitas has a large vehicle fleet and continuing to experience aggressive conto reduce our climate footprint we have OPERATING TOTAL NUMBER INCOME BEFORE CAPITAL OF BRANCH OPERATING SALES AMORTIZATION EMPLOYED EMPLOYEES MANAGERS MARGIN SECURIT Y SERVICES NORTH 44% 52% 52% 33% 700 6.2 % AMERICA 44 MSEK 48 499 MSEK 3 003 MSEK 19 202 121 000 26 Securitas Annual and Sustainability Report 2019 OUR OPERATIONS EUROPE INCREASED FOCUS ON MULTI­ THE MARKET assignments in a safe way. We also value a NATIONAL CLIENTS The European market for security services proactive relationship with the European Securitas has a strong footprint in Europe, grew approximately 2 percent in 2019. Works Council. with operations in 27 countries. This is Economic growth in Europe began to slow unmatched in the European security during the year, while wage inflation conGOALS AND PRIORITIES IN 2020 industry. The underlying momentum for tinued. Securitas has a broad offering of To support Securitas’ strategy in 2020, we the business is good, even though organic protective services, which provides us with are accelerating the growth of security sales growth in 2019 decreased comopportunities to create cost-efficient and solutions and electronic security through pared with the previous year. This is due value-added security solutions for our clifurther investments, training and strengthto the loss of certain client contracts in ents. This gives us a strong position as the ening of capabilities throughout the orgaFrance and the UK. Growth was favorable leading company in the security industry, nization. We will also enhance our proin Belgium, Germany, Turkey and the even in times of economic slowdown. gram for working with global clients, priNordic countries. Sales of security solumarily through our Client Excellence tions and electronic security progressed A SUSTAINABLE BUSINESS program. Efficiency gains will be made by well and increased from 21 percent to 22 We continue to focus on further improving strengthening our system support and by percent of total sales. Our clients value our our talent management, training and hiring further automating key operational prostrong brand and the quality services we processes. Securitas aims to be a precesses. provide. This is exemplified in the steady ferred employer, and we continuously growth of cross-border contracts with work to improve our brand, position and multinational clients. A cost-savings proattractiveness for current and potential Peter Karlströmer gram that will increase efficiency was employees. Other priorities include Divisional President implemented in 2018 and is progressing increasing diversity and focusing on occuSecurity Services Europe according to plan. pational health and safety work to ensure that our employees can carry out their OPERATING TOTAL NUMBER INCOME BEFORE CAPITAL OF BRANCH OPERATING SALES AMORTIZATION EMPLOYED EMPLOYEES MANAGERS MARGIN SECURIT Y SERVICES 43% 45% 36% 34% 730 5.5 % E UROPE 43 MSEK 47 248 MSEK 2 582 MSEK 13 284 124 000 Securitas Annual and Sustainability Report 2019 27 OUR OPERATIONS IBERO-AMERICA FAVORABLE GROWTH DESPITE lenges in certain Latin American countries into potentially improper conduct in ArgenPOLITICAL CHALLENGES during 2019. Economic and budgetary tina. During the investigation we have taken 2019 was a year of change in Security pressures in those countries are increasing decisive actions, including terminations, and Services Ibero-America. I assumed the role the need for security and safety and for worked to improve our internal controls in as Divisional President on July 1, after more efficient and innovative security Argentina and the other countries in the many years as Country President in Portusolutions. This represents an excellent division. gal. We also welcomed new leaders in ceropportunity to implement Securitas’ strattain countries in Latin America and in Poregy more effectively. GOALS AND PRIORITIES IN 2020 tugal as a means of gearing up for the In Spain and Portugal, on the other In line with Securitas’ strategy we are enhancfuture. hand, we are seeing growing regulation of ing our technical platforms and production The political, economic and social situthe private security services sector, and tools. We are also increasing focus on client ation in the division, especially in Latin there is currently a demand for security sercentricity, for example by further developing America, was challenging in 2019, but vice providers that can contribute to stable the branch manager model and a flat organiorganic sales growth remained strong. We operations and provide added value. zation. Promoting leader development is key have a very good client portfolio with great to supporting all operational and commercial potential, particularly in the private sector, A SUSTAINABLE BUSINESS processes related to client engagement. where we have experienced favorable Securitas has its own training centers in all Security solutions and electronic security development. Our 64 000 employees are countries, and offers courses ranging from sales accounted for 27 percent of total sales making sure that we can deliver high-qualbasic to very advanced. Talent managein the business segment at the end of 2019, ity security solutions every day. The ment, activities to promote diversity, and and we fully support the strategic transforSecuritas Operation Centers continue to continuous improvements to our occupamation ambition to double these sales by add value to our protective services, and tional health and safety work are important 2023. By strengthening our existing footthereby to our clients. areas that we believe will increase print, we anticipate favorable growth opporemployee satisfaction and help us remain tunities in 2020 and beyond. THE MARKET an attractive employer. The market for private security services Following internal whistleblowing Jorge Couto was affected by political and social chalSecuritas has conducted an investigation Divisional President Security Services Ibero-America OPERATING TOTAL NUMBER INCOME BEFORE CAPITAL OF BRANCH OPERATING SALES AMORTIZATION EMPLOYED EMPLOYEES MANAGERS MARGIN SECURIT Y SERVICES IBERO12% 11% 10% 17% 160 4.7 % AMERICA 12 MSEK 13 099 MSEK 614 MSEK 3 636 64 000 28 Securitas Annual and Sustainability Report 2019 OUR OPERATIONS AFRICA, MIDDLE EAST AND ASIA EXPANDING IN THE REGION share of the global guarding market by key global clients in Singapore, a groundSecuritas continued to grow well in the 2023. This growth is mainly being driven by breaking project that has improved both Africa, Middle East and Asia (AMEA) diviIndia and China. There are major differences service quality and employee satisfaction. sion in 2019, with favorable margin in terms of market maturity, from some of improvements. We are especially proud of the most developed and digitized markets GOALS AND PRIORITIES IN 2020 being awarded our first nationwide conin the world to some of the least developed. We will continue to work closely with our tract in Australia as well as winning a conWe see major growth opportunities for our clients and execute our commercial tract with a major technology company protective services and security solutions in growth strategy in 2020, focusing on focusing heavily on Asia – the largest conthe developed markets, while there is strong client centricity. This includes accelerated solidated security contract across the potential to build up high-quality guarding investments in prioritized markets, both AMEA region. We continued investing in services in all our markets. organically and through acquisitions, to our protective services in key markets to build up our protective services and secustrengthen our client value proposition, for A SUSTAINABLE BUSINESS rity solutions offering. Digitizing our secuexample by further developing our Ethical business behavior, a strong culture rity officers’ tasks will improve the stanSecuritas Operation Centers in Singapore and living by our values are prerequisites dardization and consistency of the serand Hong Kong. Two strategic acquisitions for our leaders and employees across the vices we deliver. The data retrieved from in Australia put us in a unique position to AMEA region, regardless of the challenges our operations will also be used to improve deliver security solutions and electronic faced in the local market. These practices efficiency and innovation. Leadership, sucsecurity in the country, and at the end of are integrated into our daily work and into cession planning, talent management and the year we received a license allowing us our processes for recruiting, training and the development of our employees are to start operations in Beijing, China. developing our employees. We also critical to building a long-term sustainable actively engage in sustainability and combusiness model in the AMEA region. THE MARKET pliance topics with our clients, working The guarding market in the AMEA region is together to make a difference, for example the fastest growing in the world. It is regarding diversity. One example is the Andreas Lindback expected to have an annual growth rate of implementation of a workforce benefits Divisional President close to 10 percent, reaching a 45-percent program in cooperation with one of our Africa, Middle East and Asia (AMEA) Securitas Annual and Sustainability Report 2019 29 OUR OPERATIONS A shared sense of responsibility Securitas has always emphasized the importance of having a strong culture and core values in order to offer our clients the best team in the security services industry. These efforts have made our company the success it is today. In 2019, we articulated a purpose in order to further strengthen Code as well as any irregularities they may encounter in their our culture and guide our employees in their daily work. That work. This can be done through various channels, including the purpose – We help make your world a safer place – is about Group’s reporting system, Securitas Integrity Line, which is sharing strong values and providing peace of mind and business known as Securitas Hotline in the US and Canada, and Linea de continuity. Alerta in Mexico. Our business is conducted within the framework of the laws ETHICAL PRACTICES and regulations of the countries where we operate and in accorAt Securitas, we always aim to do what is right when it comes dance with international conventions, such as the United Nations to our clients, our employees and society. Securitas’ Values and Universal Declaration of Human Rights, the OECD’s Guidelines for Ethics Code provides guidance in this area. All of our employees Multinational Enterprises and the ILO’s Declaration on Fundamental Principles and Rights at Work. We have also signed the United and business partners are expected to follow the Code and Nations Global Compact and follow the GRI standards for sustainother key policies to ensure compliance with applicable local ability reporting. and extraterritorial laws. All of our employees receive training in the Code and other key policies. We also include compliance CORE VALUES with the Code in our supplier contracts, with specific guidelines Our core values form the foundation for the entire company and standards for suppliers, and we conduct supplier risk when it comes to our high ethical standards and responsibilities. assessments when required. Integrity, Vigilance and Helpfulness are the shared values that Securitas has a zero-tolerance policy against all forms of guide our way of working and how we manage and conduct ourbribery and corruption. We encourage all employees to report selves in our client relationships. These values date back to the incidents of non-compliance with Securitas’ Values and Ethics 1950s but remain equally valid today. 30 Securitas Annual and Sustainability Report 2019 OUR OPERATIONS We encourage an environment of openness, accessibility, pride Sustainability is well integrated into our operations and this will and empowerment. Having a flat, non-hierarchal organization help us retain our strong market foothold. At the same time, helps foster this type of environment. Our management model, there are certain risks that could affect our growth, such as the Securitas Toolbox, provides guidance on our corporate culrestrictions on private security companies operating in a particular ture and values to ensure that our work methods, management market, increased insourcing of security services and diminished philosophy and client perspective are shared throughout the confidence in private security companies. Non-compliance with organization. Securitas’ Values and Ethics Code could result in reputational damage, lost revenues, penalties, fines or difficulties in recruiting. LONG-TERM PROFITABLE GROWTH Our process for enterprise risk management (ERM) is well Securitas was founded in Sweden in 1934, initially with just three integrated into the business, and all countries within the Group employees. Our numbers have grown significantly since then to perform an annual self-assessment, which is part of the process 370 000 employees, and today we are located in 56 countries. of managing enterprise-wide risks and maintaining a sound busiOur client numbers have also grown enormously. One thing that ness well into the future. has not changed, however, is our sense of responsibility towards our employees and clients and our commitment to delivering high-quality services. This has helped and will continue to help us secure long-term profitable growth, especially as ethics and compliance issues become increasingly important in many parts of the world. Securitas Annual and Sustainability Report 2019 31 Corporate COMPLIANCE WITH THE SWEDISH CORPORATE GOVERNANCE CODE governance (THE CODE) report The corporate governance report, which has been prepared in accordance with Chapter 6, Section 6 and 8 of the Swedish Annual Accounts Act, provides key information concerning compliance with the Swedish Corporate Governance Code (the Code), shareholders, the Annual General Meeting, Nomination Committee, Board of Directors and their work, including committees, remuneration and the division of CORPORATE GOVERNANCE responsibilities throughout the governance structure. This section also AND MANAGEMENT 32–52 covers Securitas’ system of internal control and risk management, which Compliance with the Code 32 is the responsibility of the Board of Directors according to the Swedish Comments by the Chairman 33 Companies Act and the Swedish Corporate Governance Code. This Securitas governance model 34 description does not form part of the Annual Report. In the Internal control section pertaining to risk, we have opted to Shareholders 35 widen the scope of our description and explain how enterprise risk Annual General Meeting 35 management works in the broader perspective regardless of the type of Nomination Committee 36 risk, which means that our focus is not confined to risk related to internal Board of Directors 37 controls over financial reporting. Fulfilling our strategies and objectives while maintaining an appropriate risk level is imperative, which is why risk Audit Committee 38 management procedures span all levels of the organization. Remuneration Committee 38 Read more at www.securitas.com / corporate-governance Auditors 39 Securitas has published its principles for corporate governance in Facts on Board of Directors 39–41 previous Annual Reports. A separate section on the Group website contains the Articles of Association and other key company documents. Facts on Group Management 42–43 Enterprise risk management (ERM) and internal control 44–51 Securitas complies with the Code principle of “comply or explain” and has Signatures of the Board of Directors 52 two deviations to explain for 2019. Auditor’s report on 52 Code rule 2.4 Neither the company chair nor any other member of the Corporate Governance Statement Board may chair the Nomination Committee. Comment: Investment AB Latour has appointed Carl Douglas as Chairman of the Nomination Committee. The Committee considers it important to have a representative from the major shareholders as Chairman of the Committee. Code Rule 9.7 For share-based incentive programs, the vesting period, or the period from the commencement of an agreement to the date on which the shares are acquired, is to be no less than three years. Comment: Securitas’ share-based incentive scheme was implemented in 2010 and has been renewed annually since then. It was based on the then-existing bonus structure of the Securitas Group. In simple terms, the bonus potential was increased in exchange for a one-time salary freeze and one-third of the cash bonus outcome was to be received in shares in March of the year following the year in which the cash bonus would have been paid out, provided that the person remained employed by Securitas at such time. Since the program replaces an immediate cash bonus payout and is not granted in addition to already existing bonus rights, the Board deems that the two-year period from the commencement of the program until the release of the shares is well motivated and reasonable in order to achieve the purpose of the program. 32 Securitas Annual and Sustainability Report 2019 GOVERNANCE AND MANAGEMENT Securitas plays an important role in ensuring the security and safety of the society at large. COMMENTS BY THE CHAIRMAN On behalf of the Board of Directors, I would like to begin by INTERNAL CONTROL AND RISK MANAGEMENT expressing our appreciation to all Securitas employees across the To keep updated and remain close to the business, the Board perworld for their commitment and engagement during 2019. forms site visits in at least one country every year in addition to Securitas has a long and proud history. It started in 1934 as a maintaining continuous interaction with the management team. small guarding company in Sweden, and our core values of InteThis way, we stay informed of and engaged in Securitas’ operagrity, Vigilance and Helpfulness, which were established back in tions outside our formal Board meetings and committee work. the 1950s, are equally valid today. These strong values have The Board has adopted a long-term perspective when it played a key role in Securitas’ successful journey, and we have now comes to the development of the business, which is supported formulated a purpose that, together with our values, truly reflects by stable ownership, strong value-driven leadership and a high Securitas’ important role in society: We help make your world a level of integrity. We place a great deal of emphasis on the safer place. importance of all employees understanding and complying with We are here to provide security and safety in a sustainable way, key policies, such as Securitas’ Values and Ethics. We have now and in the future. We are a compliant company with a high increased our focus on compliance training and have shown that level of integrity, focused on building strong relationships with our we will take prompt action if we get knowledge of any alleged clients, employees, owners, societies and other stakeholders. wrongdoing. The Board members’ diverse backgrounds and Securitas works for long-term sustainable growth and is very proexpertise also ensure that all topics are viewed from a variety of tective of its strong brand and reputation. angles and that all decisions are well founded. Just like other industries and many parts of society, the security To stay on top of any potential risks that may emerge when industry is currently undergoing a transformation. The developdeveloping security services that include technology and data-driment of technology is creating new opportunities and Securitas is ven innovation, the Board is working closely with Group Manageat the forefront when it comes to incorporating technology into our ment and relevant functions to further develop Securitas’ internal security solutions and using data-driven innovation to develop our control and risk management. This work will continue in 2020. service offering. As we enter 2020, we are continuing the impleThe Board of Directors would like to thank the shareholders mentation of significant long-term transformation programs desigfor their support. We are looking forward to the years ahead, ned to modernize, digitize and build platforms to leverage our vast during which Securitas will continuously do its utmost to live up footprint and make better use of data. This is important work when to its purpose and play an important role in society. it comes to ensuring that we will continue to lead the industry through knowledge and innovation over the years to come. At their Stockholm, March 18, 2020 core, however, our operations are still based on our numerous skilled employees and competent leaders. This winning combination of people and technology will ensure that we reach our desired Marie Ehrling position as an intelligent protective services partner to our clients. Chairman of the Board Securitas AB Securitas Annual and Sustainability Report 2019 33 GOVERNANCE AND MANAGEMENT Board of Directors’ report on corporate governance and internal control Solid system for governance and management Securitas’ structure for governance serves to protect the long-term interests of our stakeholders, ensure value creation and encourage an entrepreneurial corporate culture. A sound corporate governance model also creates the foundation for responsible and sustainable business. Securitas has a decentralized organizational model that proour clients and employees. All Securitas employees are expecmotes entrepreneurship and focuses on the approximately ted to assume responsibility for the clients and operations and 1 700 branch managers who run the company’s daily operafor our shared values. Responsibility is clarified through the tions in 56 countries. The company’s offerings improve when measurement and systematic evaluation of results. decisions are made in close proximity to clients and the employAs part of our decentralized management approach, we are ees who perform the services. Local decisions are therefore required to set and follow up on strict financial targets by contiencouraged but require a solid governance and management nuously measuring and monitoring the Group’s performance. system. To facilitate this work, Securitas has systems, routines Financial control is not simply about implementing controls, it and procedures in place for monitoring targets, internal control also functions as an incentive for those employees who are in a and risk management. position to personally influence Securitas’ financial results. As a global company, Securitas operates in many different markets where laws, regulations, environmental requirements THE FINANCIAL FRAMEWORK AND MODEL continuously and social conditions may differ. Therefore, it is vital that we measure the Group’s performance, from the branch offices always act transparently and ethically. Sustainability is well intethrough to Group level. The aim of the Group’s financial grated into Securitas’ everyday work. Securitas’ sustainability reporting is to produce the most timely and accurate informawork is based on our fundamental values – Integrity, Vigilance tion possible to enable managers and employees to make the and Helpfulness – and guided by our key corporate policies and decisions necessary for achieving profitable growth in line with principles, such as Securitas’ Values and Ethics Code. Securitas’ strategies, and to control risks to ensure that the company’s objectives are achieved. Financial reporting also SECURITAS VALUES ARE STRONGLY LINKED to its manaforms the basis for sound internal control. The financial model gement model – The Securitas Toolbox. A key function of the makes it possible to monitor a number of key figures that can be Toolbox is to convey our corporate culture and create a shared understood by all managers. Each branch has its own statement platform through our values. Securitas’ Toolbox management of income, for which it is fully responsible. It also helps manamodel has a methodical structure that includes several wellgers to understand the connection between risks and opportudefined areas or “tools” that serve as a framework at all levels, nities, and how various factors impact their areas of responsibiand is maintained through continuous training and discussion lity as well as how we can monitor and control these factors. It forums. The different areas of the model describe how Securivisualizes the direct link between income and expenses in the tas’ managers are to conduct themselves in various aspects and statement of income, capital employed in the balance sheet and stages of the company’s operations. The model also describes the generation of free cash flow. Refer to pages 54-55 for more the approach we are expected to take with regard to the market, information. 34 Securitas Annual and Sustainability Report 2019 GOVERNANCE AND MANAGEMENT Board of Directors’ report on corporate governance and internal control SHAREHOLDERS A NOMINATION ANNUAL COMMITTEE C GENERAL MEETING B AUDITORS K REMUNERATION COMMITTEE F BOARD OF DIRECTORS D AUDIT COMMITTEE E FUNCTIONAL PRESIDENT AND CEO AND MANAGEMENT COMMITTEES I GROUP MANAGEMENT G ASSURANCE H DIVISIONAL MANAGEMENT AND LOCAL MANAGEMENT J SHAREHOLDERS ANNUAL GENERAL MEETING A B Securitas is listed on Nasdaq Stockholm in the Large Cap All shareholders are able to exercise their influence at segment since 1991. The shareholders influence the overall the Annual General Meeting, which is the company’s highest direction of the company at the top of the governance structure. decision-making body. The Annual General Meeting decides on Strong principal shareholders provide considerable attention changes to the Articles of Association. The Articles of Associaand interest in our business and establish commitment to the tion contain no limitation on the number of votes that each shasuccess of the business. reholder may exercise at a shareholders’ meeting. Each shareOn December 31, 2019, the principal shareholders in holder may thus vote for all shares held at the shareholders’ Securitas were Carl and Eric Douglas who, through family and meeting. Investment AB Latour, held 10.9 percent (10.9) of the capital The Annual General Meeting of Securitas AB was held on and 29.6 percent (29.6) of the votes, and Märta and Sofia May 6, 2019, and the minutes are available on www.securitas. Schörling who, through family and Melker Schörling AB, held com, where all resolutions passed can be found. One of the 4.1 percent (4.5) of the capital and 10.7 percent (11.0) of the resolutions passed in 2019 was the authorization for the Board votes. For more detailed information about shareholders, see to resolve upon acquisition of the company’s own shares. Sharethe table on page 163. holders representing 62.8 percent (66.8) of the votes attended either personally or by proxy. For information about election and remuneration of Board members, see the Board of Directors section (D). NUMBER OF SHAREHOLDERS 2015–2019 ATTENDANCE 2015–2019 Year No. of shareholders % of voting rights 2015 25 734 63.5 66.8 61.9 61.9 62.8 2016 31 221 2017 33 913 2018 32 197 2019 41 892 15 16 17 18 19 Securitas Annual and Sustainability Report 2019 35 GOVERNANCE AND MANAGEMENT Board of Directors’ report on corporate governance and internal control THE WORK OF THE BOARD OF DIRECTORS MEETING MEETING Business update IS/IT Transformation Business plan 2020 D EC JAN Strategy Q4 MEETING1 Integrity Reporting V F Q4 and full-year report O and Compliance N EB Update from Audit Committee Audit report Q3 MEETING1 Remuneration OC T RCH MA Q3 interim report Q4 Q1 AGM preparation Update from Audit Committee Dividend Integrity Reporting AMEA presentation and Compliance Q3 Q2 APR IS/IT Transformation SSNA presentation SEPT IL Acquisitions MEETING2 Annual Report U G AY MEETING A M Renumeration guidelines Operational visit and presentations JUL Proposal regarding acquisition of own shares Audit Tender Y JUNE Acquisitions MEETING2 Share bonus scheme proposal Q2 MEETING1 Long-term incentive program Q2 interim report Notice convening the AGM 2019 Update from Audit Committee Acquisitions Q1 MEETING1 Q1 interim report MEETING Update from Audit Committee Strategy IS/IT Transformation Cyber Security Organizational changes Financialization Acquisitions STATUTORY MEETING Repurchase of own shares Appointment of committee members Authorization to sign for the ­company Work procedures (Board, Audit and 1 In addition to the topics listed, other areas are discussed continuously, such as operational performance, updates from divisions, strategy, market and competition, acquisitions, insurance, Remuneration Committees) credit risk, tax matters, legal matters and funding. Approval of Group Policies 2 Held per capsulam. NOMINATION COMMITTEE the Nomination Committee, valid until a General Meeting resolves C in a change. In accordance to this instruction the Nomination ComThe Nomination Committee is a body established by the Annual General Meeting with the task of preparing motions regarmittee shall be composed of representatives of the five largest ding the election of Board members, the Chairman of the Board shareholders in terms of voting rights registered in the shareholand remuneration to Board members and Board committees. ders’ register as of August 31 in the year prior to the Annual GeneAs a basis for its motions, the Nomination Committee takes ral Meeting. Refer to the AGM minutes for more information on the into account the complete outcome of the evaluation of the procedure for replacing members of the Nomination Committee Board and its work as well as the competence needed in the who leave before its work is concluded or due to changes in the future. The Nomination Committee applies rule 4.1 of the shareholder structure. The Chairman of the Board, Marie Ehrling, Swedish Corporate Governance Code as its diversity policy and shall convene the first meeting of the Nomination Committee and the committee has endeavored to establish a Board composition shall also be co-opted to the Nomination Committee. Based on with an equal gender distribution, characterized by diversity and these principles, the Nomination Committee consists of the follobreadth regarding the qualifications, experience and background wing members. of the Board members. The 2019 Annual General Meeting resolved to appoint Board members in accordance with the NominaNOMINATION COMMITTEE PRIOR TO 2020 AGM tion Committee’s proposal. Share of votes as of August 31, At the moment, the Board of Directors consists of three Elected members 2019 women and five men, meaning that the percentage of women on Carl Douglas, Investment AB Latour, Chairman 29.58% the Board is 37.5 percent, which is in line with the target level stipulated by the Swedish Corporate Governance Board. It is the Mikael Ekdahl, Melker Schörling AB 10.67% ambition of the Nomination Committee to continue working to Maria Nordqvist, Lannebo Fonder 2.91% create an equal gender distribution on the Board. The Committee Adam Gerge, Didner & Gerge Fonder 2.22% has adopted working instructions that govern its work. Jan Andersson, Swedbank Robur Fonder 1.78% Before each Annual General Meeting, during which the elecShare of votes not represented in the ­N omination Committee 52.84% tion of auditors takes place, the Nomination Committee also prepares motions regarding the election of auditors and decisions about fees to auditors and other related matters, in consultation The Nomination Committee is to hold meetings as often as with the Board of Directors and the Audit Committee. necessary to fulfill its duties. However, the Nomination CommitThe Annual General Meeting has adopted an instruction for the tee is to hold at least one meeting annually. The Nomination Nomination Committee, which includes a procedure for appointing Committee held two meetings during 2019. 36 Securitas Annual and Sustainability Report 2019 GOVERNANCE AND MANAGEMENT Board of Directors’ report on corporate governance and internal control authority, which is further described in the enterprise risk manageBOARD OF DIRECTORS D ment and internal control report, beginning on page 45. The Board According to the Articles of Association, the Board of has formed an Audit Committee (see section E) and a RemuneraDirectors should have between five and ten Board members tion Committee (see section F). elected by the Annual General Meeting, with no more than two Deputy Directors. The Directors and Deputy Directors are elected by the Annual General Meeting for the period up to and including The work of the Board of Directors the first Annual General Meeting to be held in the year after the The activities of the Board of Directors and the division of Director or Deputy Director was elected. Securitas’ Board of responsibility between the Board and Group Management are Directors has eight members elected by the Annual General Meegoverned by formal procedures documented in a written instructing, three employee representatives and one deputy employee tion, which is adopted by the Board each year after the Annual representative. General Meeting. According to these procedures, the Board The Annual General Meeting re-elected Marie Ehrling as should determine, among other things, the Group’s overall straChairman of the Board and Carl Douglas as Vice Chairman. For tegy, corporate acquisitions and property investments above a further information about the members of the Board of Directors certain level, and establish a framework for the Group’s operaincluding remuneration, see pages 39-41. tions through the Group’s business plan. The Board also plays an important role in the ongoing process of identifying and evaluaResponsibilities of the Board of Directors ting significant risks faced by the Group. The Board of Directors is responsible for the organization and The procedures include a work instruction for the President administration of the company and the Group in accordance with and CEO, as well as instructions for financial reporting. The prothe Swedish Companies Act and also appoints the President and cedures also prescribe that an annual evaluation of the work of CEO, the Audit Committee and the Remuneration Committee. the Board of Directors should be carried out. On a yearly basis, all In addition, the Board of Directors determines the President Board members submit their answers to a questionnaire issued and CEO’s salary and other remuneration. The Board meets a miniby the Nomination Committee about the quality of the work in mum of six times annually. the Board. Based on this report, an evaluation is made in the The Board of Directors of Securitas AB has approved a number Board and in the Nomination Committee. of policies that apply to governance. Examples of such policies are The Board held 11 meetings in 2019, of which two were held found on page 49. per capsulam. The auditors participated in the Board meeting The Board ensures the quality of financial reporting through that was held in conjunction with the yearly closing of the books, Group policies, procedures and frameworks, clear structures with in February 2019, where they presented the audit. defined responsibilities and through documented delegation of THE WORK OF THE AUDIT COMMITTEE Q3 MEETING MEETING Q3 interim report D EC JAN Argentina hyperinflation Updates1 V F Impairment test N O EB Q4 MEETING Corporate governance report Q4 and full-year report Internal audit function assessment Updates1 OC T RCH MA External auditor early warning Corporate governance report Q4 Q1 and internal control report Yearly summary of employee Audit Tender benefits (pensions) Internal (MA) Q3 2019 audit activities External auditor report Q3 Q2 APR SEPT IL Internal (MA) Q4 2018 audit activities MEETING Audit Tender Q1 MEETING U Q1 interim report G A AY M MEETING Updates1 JUL Integrity Reporting and Compliance Y JUNE External auditor audit plan Internal (MA) Q1 2019 audit activities Q2 MEETING Internal (MA) audit plan 2019 Q2 interim report Updates1 Global IT and Intelligent Services presentation External auditor half-year report (MA) Management Assurance 1 Topics based on a set rolling agenda format with updates on accounting, treasury, acquisitions, Internal (MA) Q2 2019 audit activities risk / insurance, legal, tax, internal control, sustainability, enterprise risk management, follow-up of on site visits, audit / consultancy costs and auditor independence. Securitas Annual and Sustainability Report 2019 37 GOVERNANCE AND MANAGEMENT Board of Directors’ report on corporate governance and internal control the interests of the executives concerned by enabling the particiAUDIT COMMITTEE E pants to become substantial shareholders in the company. Refer The Board of Directors has established and appointed an to the AGM minutes for more information on the LTI 2019/2021 Audit Committee, which operates under the instructions for the program. Audit Committee and meets with Securitas’ auditors at least four times per year. The Committee supports the Board’s quality-conThe guidelines for remuneration to senior management that trol work in terms of financial reports, and its internal control over were adopted at the Annual General Meeting 2019 primarily financial reporting. entailed that remuneration to senior management and their terms Specifically, the Committee monitors the financial reporting, the of employment should be competitive and comply with market effectiveness of internal control, internal audit activities and the risk conditions, to ensure that Securitas is able to attract and keep management system. The Committee also stays informed about competent senior management employees. The total remuneraannual statutory audits. It assesses the external auditor’s indepention to Group Management should consist of a fixed basic salary, dence and receives information of, and approves the performance variable remuneration, pensions and other benefits. of, significant non-audit services. Thus, in addition to a fixed annual salary, Group Management The Committee presents its findings and proposals to the may also receive variable remuneration, which shall be based on Board, prior to the Board’s decision. The Committee met seven the outcome in relation to financial goals within the individual times during 2019. The major topics discussed are listed on the area of responsibility (Group or division) and which shall be aligprevious page. ned with the interest of the shareholders. The variable remuneration should amount to a maximum of REMUNERATION COMMITTEE F 60 percent of the fixed annual salary for the President and CEO, The Board has formed a Remuneration Committee to and a maximum of 42 to 200 percent of the fixed annual salary prepare decisions related to salaries, bonuses, share-based for other members of Group Management. The cost of the incentive schemes and other forms of compensation for Group ­company for 2019 in terms of its obligations to pay variable Management, as well as other management levels if the Board of remuneration to the Group Management is established to not Directors so decides. The Committee presents its proposals to exceed a total of MSEK 99 at maximum outcome (not including the Board, for the Board’s decision. The Committee held two potential costs for the LTI 2019/2021). The complete guidelines meetings during 2019. for remuneration can be found on www.securitas.com. Additional information on remuneration to the Board of Directors A share-based incentive scheme was adopted at the Annual and Group Management, including the outcome, is disclosed in General Meeting 2019, enabling the Group to gradually have the Notes and comments to the consolidated financial stateapproximately 2 600 of Securitas’ top managers as shareholders. ments 2019. See note 9. The scheme strengthens employee commitment to Securitas’ future success and development for the benefit of all shareholders. PRESIDENT AND CEO AND In principal, the adopted incentive scheme entails that one-third of G any annual bonus, earned under the performance-based cash GROUP MANAGEMENT bonus schemes, is converted into a right to receive shares, with The President and CEO and Group Management are charged delayed allotment and subject to continued employment in Securiwith overall responsibility for conducting the business of the tas. The scope and content of the incentive scheme is unchanged Securitas Group in line with the strategy and long-term goals compared to the share–based incentive scheme that was adopted adopted by the Board of Directors of Securitas AB. The primary at the Annual General Meetings in 2010 and forward. tool used by the President and CEO and Group Management to For more information on the actual outcome of the share-based measure the execution of strategies and to guide the employees incentive scheme in 2019, see note 12. and organization toward achieving its objectives is the financial frame­work and the financial model. Long-term Incentive Program (LTI 2019/2021) In 2019, Group Management comprised the President and CEO The Annual General Meeting 2019 resolved to implement a new and 15 executives with representatives from the divisions. For long-term incentive program for the CEO, other members of further information on Group Management, see pages 42-43. Group Management and certain other key employees within the MANAGEMENT ASSURANCE Securitas Group (“LTI 2019/2021”). LTI 2019/2021 are based on H different principles than the current and previous incentive scheThe Management Assurance staff function operates as mes for the Group and participants of LTI 2019/2021 will not be the Group’s internal audit function and reports to the Senior Vice entitled to participate in Incentive Scheme 2019. LTI 2019/2021 President Finance with an open line of communication to the includes approximately 80 employees including the CEO, other Audit Committee. members of Group management and certain other key employThis function prepares an annual plan for its work, which is ees within the Securitas Group. The vesting period for LTI approved by the Audit Committee. The results of the function’s 2019/2021 is three years after allotment. work, which includes the execution and coordination of internal audit The purpose of LTI 2019/2021 is to create a strong long-term related activities during the year, are presented at the Audit Commitincentive for top executives of the Group, strengthen the Group’s tee meetings. The Management Assurance Director participated in ability to retain and recruit top executives, provide competitive six Audit Committee meetings during 2019. remuneration, and to align the interests of the shareholders with For more information on the current responsibilities of the Management Assurance function, refer to www.securitas.com. 38 Securitas Annual and Sustainability Report 2019 GOVERNANCE AND MANAGEMENT Board of Directors’ report on corporate governance and internal control FUNCTIONAL COMMITTEES The auditors’ work is based on an audit plan, which is agreed I upon in consultation with the Audit Committee and the Board of The Group has established a number of functional committees and work groups, including the functions for Finance / Tax Directors. The auditors participate in all meetings of the Audit and Assurance, Corporate Finance / Treasury and Legal / Risk and Committee and present their findings from the annual audit at the Insurance. These committees include the CFO, Senior Vice PresiBoard meeting held in February. In addition, the auditors should dent Finance, Senior Vice President General Counsel and the appinform the Audit Committee on an annual basis of any services ropriate functional area experts. The main purpose of these funrendered, other than audit assignments, and any auditing fees ctional committees is to determine appropriate policies, communireceived for such services or other circumstances that might cate the policies and ensure local understanding (including affect the evaluation of the auditors’ independence. The auditors training) of the policies, as well as monitoring key issues within should also participate in the Annual General Meeting to present each area of responsibility. Quarterly meetings are held with the the audit report and its conclusions. President and CEO, at which topics that will be reported to the The audit is performed in compliance with the Swedish ComAudit Committee are discussed. panies Act, generally accepted auditing standards in Sweden and International Standards on Auditing (ISA). DIVISIONAL AND LOCAL MANAGEMENT For audit fees and reimbursement to auditors, see note 11 J and 46. Securitas’ philosophy is to work in a decentralized environment where local management is primarily responsible for monitoring and ensuring compliance by local units with the Group Policies, including any division-specific policies and guidelines. Local management is responsible for the establishment and AUDITOR IN CHARGE ­continued operations of a system of procedures and controls that Patrik Adolfson, born 1973, ensures the reliability of the company’s management and financial Authorized Public Accounreporting information in the most economical and efficient manner tant, Auditor in charge, Price­ possible. This includes ensuring a minimum of basic and super­ waterhouseCoopers AB. visory controls in order to mitigate relevant risks. Local Patrik Adolfson has been ­management reports to Group Management through divisional auditor in charge of Securitas management on operational matters and local controllers report AB since 2015. Other audit through divisional controllers on financial reporting matters. assignments: AcadeMedia AB (publ), Attendo AB (publ), AUDITORS Nordstjernan AB, Pandox AB K (publ) and Bonava AB (publ). The Annual General Meeting 2019 elected Price­water­ houseCoopers AB (PwC) as the Group’s audit firm, with authoriMember of FAR. Auditor Patrik Adolfson zed public accountant Patrik Adolfson as auditor in charge, for a period of one year. COMPOSITION OF THE BOARD AND ATTENDANCE IN 2019 Position Attendance Board Audit Remuneration Independent Independent Board Board of Audit Remuneration meetings Committee Committee Total fee1, to company to sharemember Directors Committee Committee (11) meetings (7) meetings (2) SEK (8) holders (6) Marie Ehrling Chairman – Chairman 11 – 2 2 300 000 Yes Yes Carl Douglas Vice Chairman – Member 9 – 2 895 000 Yes No Ingrid Bonde Member Member – 11 7 – 835 000 Yes Yes John Brandon Member – – 11 – – 635 000 Yes Yes Anders Böös Member Member – 11 7 – 835 000 Yes No Fredrik Cappelen Member Chairman – 11 7 – 960 000 Yes Yes Sofia Schörling Högberg Member Member – 11 7 – 835 000 Yes No Dick Seger Member – – 11 – – 635 000 Yes Yes Susanne Bergman Israelsson2 Member – – 11 – – 0 – – Åse Hjelm2 Member – – 11 – – 0 – – Jan Prang2 Member – – 11 – – 0 – – 1 Total fee includes fees for committee work. In total, SEK 1 075 000 2 Employee representatives, appointed members of the Board of For comparative information about remuneration to the Board of was paid out for committee work, of which SEK 150 000 for RemuDirectors at the Annual General Meeting. Deputy employee repreDirectors and senior management, please see note 9. neration Committee work and SEK 925 000 for Audit Committee sentative is Thomas Fanberg. Thomas Fanberg (b. 1961) has been work. For more details, refer to the minutes of the Annual General Deputy Director of Securitas AB since 2008. Employee RepresentaMeeting 2019 on Securitas’ website: www.securitas.com. tive, Chairman of Salaried Employees’ Union local branch, Securitas Norrland. Securitas Annual and Sustainability Report 2019 39 GOVERNANCE AND MANAGEMENT Board of Directors’ report on corporate governance and internal control BOARD OF DIRECTORS 1. MARIE EHRLING 4. SOFIA SCHÖRLING HÖGBERG 8. FREDRIK CAPPELEN Chairman, b. 1955 Member, b. 1978 Member, b. 1957 Director of Securitas AB since 2006 and Director of Securitas AB since 2005 Director of Securitas AB since 2008 Chairman since 2016 Principal education: BSc in Economics and Principal education: BSc in Business Principal education: BSc in Economics and Business Administration Administration Business Administration Other assignments: Director Hexagon AB and Other assignments: Chairman of Dometic Group Other assignments: Vice Chairman of Axel ASSA ABLOY AB AB, Chairman of KonfiDents GmbH and Johnson AB and Director of Axel Johnson Shares in Securitas: 4 500 000 Series A Transcom AB. Member of the ICC Executive International shares and 10 419 039 Series B shares2 Board Previously: President of Telia Sonera Sverige, Previously: President and Group Chief Executive Deputy CEO of SAS AB, responsible for SAS of Nobia, Chairman of Dustin Group AB, Airlines and other executive positions at SAS 5. DICK SEGER Byggmax Group AB, Terveystalo Oy and Sanitec Shares in Securitas: 10 000 Series B shares Member, b. 1953 Oy, Vice Chairman of Munksjö AB Director of Securitas AB since 2017 Shares in Securitas: 4 000 Series B shares Principal education: Master of Science 2. CARL DOUGLAS Other assignments: Director Anticimex Top Vice Chairman, b. 1965 EMPLOYEE REPRESENTATIVES Holding AB Deputy Director of Securitas AB since 1992, 9. SUSANNE BERGMAN ISRAELSSON Previously: CEO, Chairman of the Board Director since 1999 and Vice Chairman and Director of Verisure Group (previous Member, b. 1958 since 2008 Securitas Direct) Director of Securitas AB since 2004 Principal education: Bachelor of Arts, Doctor Shares in Securitas: 26 Series B shares Employee Representative, Negotiating Shop of Letters (h.c.) Steward, Swedish Transport Workers’ Union local Other assignments: Vice Chairman of ASSA branch 19, Norra Mälardalen ABLOY AB, Director of Investment AB Latour 6. JOHN BRANDON Shares in Securitas: 0 Shares in Securitas: 12 642 600 Series Member, b. 1956 A shares and 27 190 000 Series B shares1 Director of Securitas AB since 2017 10. ÅSE HJELM Principal education: Bachelor of Arts in History Member, b. 1962 3. INGRID BONDE Other assignments: Director of Hexagon AB Director of Securitas AB since 2008 Member, b. 1959 Previously: Vice President of Apple International, Deputy Director of Securitas AB since 2007 Director of Securitas AB since 2017 Vice President of Apple Americas and Asia, and President and CEO of Academic Systems Employee Representative, Vice Chairman Principal education: BSc in Business and of Salaried Employees’ Union local branch, Economics Shares in Securitas: 10 000 Series B shares Norrland, Chairman of the Securitas Council Other assignments: Chairman of Hoist Finance for Salaried Employees AB, Alecta, Apoteket AB and Swedish Climate Policy Council. Director of Loomis AB and 7. ANDERS BÖÖS Shares in Securitas: 120 Series B shares Swedish Corporate Governance Board Member, b. 1964 Previously: CFO and Deputy CEO Vattenfall AB, Director of Securitas AB since 2016 11. JAN PRANG CEO AMF, Director General Swedish Financial Principal education: Economic studies Upper Supervisory Authority Member, b. 1959 Secondary School Director of Securitas AB since 2008 Shares in Securitas: 2 600 Series B shares Other assignments: Chairman of Einride AB and Employee Representative, Chairman of Hantverksdata AB, Director of Investment AB Swedish Transport Workers’ Union local branch, Latour, Stronghold Invest AB and Newsec Securitas Göteborg Property Asset Manangement AB Shares in Securitas: 0 Previously: CEO of Drott AB and H&Q AB, Chairman of IFS AB and Cision AB, Director of Haldex AB and Niscayah AB Shares in Securitas: 25 000 Series B shares 8 7 9 3 5 11 10 1 2 4 6 1 Through family and Investment AB Latour. 2 Through family and Melker Schörling AB. All figures refer to holdings on December 31, 2019. 40 Securitas Annual and Sustainability Report 2019 GOVERNANCE AND MANAGEMENT Board of Directors’ report on corporate governance and internal control Securitas Annual and Sustainability Report 2019 41 GOVERNANCE AND MANAGEMENT Board of Directors’ report on corporate governance and internal control GROUP MANAGEMENT 1. MAGNUS AHLQVIST 7. JORGE COUTO 12. AIMÉ LYAGRE President and CEO of Securitas AB* Divisional President, Security Services Chief Operating Officer and Chief Technology Born: 1974 Ibero-America Officer, Security Services Europe Employed: 2015 Born: 1970 Born: 1959 Shares in Securitas: 111 430 Series B shares1, Employed: 1998 Employed: 2004 200 000 share options2 Shares in Securitas: 0 Series B shares1 Shares in Securitas: 19 952 Series B shares1 2. BART ADAM 8. SANTIAGO GALAZ 13. MARC PISSENS Chief Financial Officer Divisional President, Security Services President Aviation Born: 1965 North America Born: 1950 Employed: 1999 Born: 1959 Employed: 1999 Shares in Securitas: 43 555 Series B shares1 Employed: 1995 Shares in Securitas: 37 700 Series B shares1 Shares in Securitas: 91 670 Series B shares1 3. MARTIN ALTHÉN 14. BRIAN RIIS NIELSEN Chief Information Officer 9. PETER KARLSTRÖMER SVP for Global Clients and leader of Global Clients Born: 1968 Divisional President, Security Services Europe & Vertical Markets Employed: 2016 Born: 1971 Born: 1966 Shares in Securitas: 3 478 Series B shares1 Employed: 2019 Employed: 2002 Shares in Securitas: 6 196 Series B shares1 Shares in Securitas: 0 Series B shares1 4. HELENA ANDREAS Senior Vice President, Group Brand 10. ANDREAS LINDBACK 15. FRIDA ROSENHOLM and Communications Divisional President, AMEA Senior Vice President, General Counsel Born: 1975 (Africa, Middle East and Asia) Born: 1974 Employed: 2019 Born: 1982 Employed: 2018 Shares in Securitas: 2 045 Series B shares1 Employed: 2011 Shares in Securitas: 464 Series B shares1 Shares in Securitas: 0 Series B shares1 5. WILLIAM BARTHELEMY 16. HENRIK ZETTERBERG Chief Operating Officer, Security Services 11. JAN LINDSTRÖM Chief Operating Officer, Security Services Europe North America Senior Vice President, Finance Born: 1976 Born: 1954 Born: 1966 Employed: 2014 Employed: 1999 Employed: 1999 Shares in Securitas: 4 091 Series B shares1, Shares in Securitas: 70 859 Series B shares1 Shares in Securitas: 13 230 Series B shares1 45 000 share options2 6. TONY BYERLY President, Securitas Electronic Security Born: 1966 Employed: 2016 Shares in Securitas: 0 Series B shares1 11 6 13 1 7 8 2 16 12 14 10 4 5 9 3 15 *Magnus Ahlqvist holds a Master of Science in Economics and Business Administration from the Stockholm School of Economics, and a leadership exam from Harvard Business School. Previously he has held various management positions in Motorola Mobility, Sony and Sony Ericsson Mobile Communications. He is a Director of International Security Ligue. Luis Posadas retired from his role as Divisional President, Securitas Services Ibero-America on July 1, 2019. The following changes took effect from January 1, 2020: • Santiago Galaz was appointed Executive Chairman of Securitas North America and stepped down from Securitas Group Management. 1 T he actual allocation of shares to Group Management under the Securitas share-based incentive scheme 2018, • Bill Barthelemy retired from his role as Chief Operating Officer, North America and stepped down from Securitas Group and the total potential allocation of shares to Group Management. Bill will assist as an advisor and continue working with select clients through 2021. Management under the Securitas share-based incentive • Greg Anderson was appointed President, North American Guarding, and a member of Securitas Group Management. scheme 2019 can be found in note 9. • José Castejon was appointed Chief Operating Officer, North American Guarding and a member of Securitas Group 2 Share options regarding acquisition of Securitas Series B Management. José will also lead the Global Guarding Center of Excellence unit. shares, issued by Melker Schörling AB and Investment AB For more information about Group Management, visit www.securitas.com / group-management Latour. 42 Securitas Annual and Sustainability Report 2019 GOVERNANCE AND MANAGEMENT Board of Directors’ report on corporate governance and internal control Securitas Annual and Sustainability Report 2019 43 GOVERNANCE AND MANAGEMENT Board of Directors’ report on corporate governance and internal control 44 Securitas Annual and Sustainability Report 2019 GOVERNANCE AND MANAGEMENT Board of Directors’ report on corporate governance and internal control Proactive Risk Management and Internal Control Securitas’ internal control system is designed to manage, rather than eliminate, the risk of failing to achieve business objectives. The system provides reasonable, but not absolute, assurance against material misstatement or loss, as well as compliance with the main policies. Internal control over financial reporting is included as a part of RISK ASSESSMENT the overall internal control of Securitas and constitutes a central At the highest level, the Board considers where future strategic part of the Group’s corporate governance. The description opportunities and risks lie and helps shape the corporate below covers a broader perspective on how Securitas’ internal strategy. Balanced and focused risk management is necessary control is organized, using a structure based on the COSO for the fulfillment of Securitas’ strategies and the achievement model, but also makes specific reference to items pertaining of its corporate objectives. directly to internal control over financial reporting. On pages Enterprise risk management (ERM) is an integral component 48-51 we describe Securitas’ enterprise risk management proof Securitas’ operations, and risk awareness is part of the cess (ERM), which sets the overall process for Securitas’ proaccompany culture. Risk assessments are conducted within the tive and continuous work with risk management and internal framework of the Securitas ERM process, further described on control. Securitas’ insurance and claims strategy is to “act as if page 48–51, regardless whether the assessments pertain to uninsured”. Refer to page 49 for more information about insuoperational risks or financial reporting risks. Securitas does not rance as a risk management tool. classify compliance risk as a separate category. Instead, it is included in the operational category. Risk assessment is a dynaCONTROL ENVIRONMENT mic process that aims to identify and analyze risks in relation to The key features of the control environment include: clear terms Securitas’ objectives. It serves as the basis for implementing of reference for the Board and each of its committees, a clear mitigating actions after considering the controls in place organizational structure with documented delegation of autho(reduce, transfer / share or accept the risk in question). rity documented in an approval matrix, from the Board to President and CEO and further to Group Management. It also GROUP-WIDE CONTROL ACTIVITIES includes the competence of employees and a series of Group Internal control covers all divisions and subsidiaries in the policies, procedures and frameworks. Group. Internal control activities are established by policies and Emphasis lies on the competence and abilities of the Group’s processes, which help ensure that all management directives to employees, with continuous training and development actively manage risks are executed. Controls are performed on several encouraged through a wide variety of training programs. levels within the organization and are established based on the The Group has three fundamental values – Integrity, Vigiprocess concerned. lance and Helpfulness – to help its employees exercise good judgment and make decisions on a consistent basis. Policies that apply to internal control over financial reporting are described in Securitas’ Group Policies, which include the company’s model for financial control (for more detailed information on the model, refer to pages 54-55), and in the Securitas Reporting Manual, which specifically focuses on reporting matters to ensure compliance with reporting requirements and rules. This creates an environment that supports reliable and accurate reporting. Securitas Annual and Sustainability Report 2019 45 GOVERNANCE AND MANAGEMENT Board of Directors’ report on corporate governance and internal control GROUP APPROVAL MATRIX 1 ERM SELFASSESSMENT1 5 LETTER OF CONTINUOUS POLICY DEVELOPMENT AND IMPLE­ MENTATION REPRESEN­TATION1 GROU P-W IDE 2 CON T RO L 4 FINANCIAL AC T I V I T IES BASIC CONTROL1 CONTROLS1 GROUP-LEVEL BUSINESS 3 REPORTING CONTROLS INSTRUCTIONS AND FRAMEWORK AUDIT, RISK AND This illustration shows CONTROL an overview of the key DIAGNOSTICS1 Group-wide control activities. 1 DESCRIBED IN FURTHER DETAIL BELOW. 1 ERM SELF-ASSESSMENT Every major country throughout the Group performs an The self-assessments promote control awareness and accountability and results are signed off by each country president. The annual self-assessment, which is a part of the process to answers are compiled at the divisional and Group levels to supmanage enterprise-wide risks. It covers key risks, including port benchmarking within and between divisions. The answers financial reporting risks, measures taken and compliance with are also used as input for further audit or review procedures, or Securitas Group Policies and Securitas Reporting Manual. The other risk management activities. Group and division create content is updated on a continuous basis to reflect the risks that action plans and activities to follow up and support the countries. Securitas is facing, which includes ensuring that risks related to Each reporting country is responsible for acting on any deviathe strategy and development of the technology offering are tions. incorporated as appropriate. 46 Securitas Annual and Sustainability Report 2019 GOVERNANCE AND MANAGEMENT Board of Directors’ report on corporate governance and internal control 2 BASIC CONTROLS Detailed controls in financial reporting processes such as • Securitas’ Reporting Manual, which provides all managers and financial staff with detailed instructions and definitions for finanrevenue, payroll and IT, are included as one component of Securicial reporting tas’ overall Group-wide control framework called “basic controls”. Basic controls set the minimum Group requirement regarding • The controller, who is responsible for continuously ensuring that the financial information provided is accurate, transparent, relewhat needs to be in place based on risk assessment. Supplemenvant and up to date. The controller receives continuous feedtary controls ensure full protection of the company’s assets and back from the Group regarding reporting quality, which is an assure accurate and reliable financial reporting tailored to the effective tool for enhanced reporting. In addition, each division entity’s company’s specific conditions. These controls can include has a divisional controller with corresponding responsibilities at manual, application or general IT controls. the divisional level. Key areas covered: • protection of company assets 5 LETTER OF REPRESENTATION The Group has a representation process in which opera• completeness and timeliness of client invoicing ting unit presidents and controllers sign a letter of representation • credit collection procedures in connection with the year-end report, stating their opinion on • contract management whether the internal control over financial reporting and the repor­ • HR / payroll ting packages give a true and fair view of the financial position. • IT (including information security) The letter also covers the broader perspective of internal con• business continuity planning trol, including compliance with Securitas Group Policies related to • validity of payments to third parties financial reporting. • accuracy of general ledger • timeliness and accuracy of Group reporting INFORMATION AND COMMUNICATION • compliance with local requirements Securitas’ channels for information and communication are constantly developed to ensure that all employees are given clear 3 AUDIT, RISK AND CONTROL DIAGNOSTICS One important audit activity is the country diagnostics. objectives and are made aware of the parameters that constitute acceptable business practices, as well as the expectations of the The diagnostics comprise a work program covering IFRS compliBoard in managing risks. This provides a clear definition of the ance, as well as key controls within financial reporting processes, Group’s purpose and goals, accountabilities and the scope of percontract management and IT security. These reviews are usually mitted activities of employees. conducted within the first year after an acquisition has been Systems and procedures have been implemented that support made and a follow-up is performed during the second year, provicomplete, accurate and timely financial reporting and provide ded that significant areas for improvement have been identified. management with the necessary reports on business performance The Group also performs risk and control diagnostics in functiorelative to the established objectives. The Group reporting departnal areas which, by nature, have a high degree of inherent risk. ment regularly issues guidance on reporting matters and the These diagnostics aim to ensure compliance with key policies reporting manual is available in a Group-wide database. Reporting such as the Client contract policy and the Securitas’ Values and units regularly prepare financial and management reports that are Ethics Code. Securitas develops this audit and review process on discussed at review meetings at different levels. These include an a continuous basis using both internal and external resources. analysis of financial performance and risks for the organization to understand its responsibility with regard to internal control and its 4 FINANCIAL CONTROL Control activities specifically aimed at managing risks impact in relation to risks, goals and objectives. related to financial reporting include methods and activities for MONITORING securing assets, controlling the accuracy and reliability of internal Monitoring is performed at different levels and by different funand external financial reports, and ensuring compliance with defictions within the organization depending on whether it is related ned guidelines. to operational or financial reporting matters. Key functions include Regular analyses of the financial results at the various levels of the Board of Directors, the Audit Committee, Group Managethe organization using the financial model ensure that financial ment, functional committees, Management Assurance, the Group information maintains a high level of quality. Securitas’ financial risk organization, and local and divisional management. reporting is based on the following foundations: • Securitas Group Policies for financial planning and reporting, long-term financing and treasury, risks and insurance, communications, branding, legal issues and IT • Guidelines in Securitas’ financial model, which create the framework for a simple and clear internal reporting method, including timely and accurate follow-up of financial key figures (Securitas Six Fingers) Securitas Annual and Sustainability Report 2019 47 GOVERNANCE AND MANAGEMENT Board of Directors’ report on corporate governance and internal control Four-step IN P ID E U T A ND RISK NTIFIC ATION process for CO NTR AC T A ND U IS I T I O N S RI managing SK CQ S A DE V RISK-BA SED P OLIC Y enterprise risk AT I TO R I N G ION MON E LO P M E N T FIN AL EN T R IS CI KS AN S A K E R M RIS L OP I N S G Securitas’ process for enterprise risk management AS (ERM) is well integrated into the business and seeks to identify, prioritize and manage the key RIS T K M A N AGE MEN risks to our operations at all levels and in all parts A C T I V I T IE S of the organization. Securitas is exposed to various types of risks in its daily business. FINANCIAL RISKS When providing security services, Securitas manages not only its The financial risks (and financial integration risks) cateown risks, but also risks on behalf of its clients. It is important to gory includes risks related to financial reporting, as well as finanus to minimize the risk of loss occurring as it also protects our cial risks related to external financing needs and currency exposure. To allow the divisions, countries and regions to focus fully stakeholders. Securitas’ risks have been classified into three main on their operations, the management of certain risks such as categories: contract and acquisitions risks, operational financing and currency is centralized to the Group Treasury assignment risks and financial risks. The categories are based Centre. Other examples within this category are fraud and error on the natural flow of our business – entering into a contract, exerisk, management estimates assumptions risk, credit and cash cution of the assignment and the financial result. Similar risk cateflow risk and regulatory reporting risk. gories are also relevant for acquisitions, but are then classified as All the risks in these categories can impact the Group’s finanacquisition risks, operational integration risks and financial intecial performance and position if they are not managed in a strucgration risks. tured way. Therefore, Securitas has developed its four-step process approach for managing enterprise risks. CONTRACT AND ACQUISITIONS RISKS To support the ERM work, Securitas has implemented a webThe contract risks (and acquisitions risks) category inclubased governance, risk and compliance (GRC) system that cover des risks related to entering into a client contract and risks related all four steps in Securitas’ enterprise risk management process and to the acquisition of a new business. gathers the ERM information in one database. It is used to streamline the ERM work by structuring and automating processes and OPERATIONAL ASSIGNMENT RISKS workflows, such as reports. The aim is to improve the overall quaThe operational assignment risks (and operational intelity of the ERM work and have one single point of information. gration risks) category includes risks that are associated with our daily operations and the services we provide to our clients. This category also covers all risks related to the infrastructure necessary for running the business as well as sustainability risks. Examples are assignment execution risks, Securitas’ Values and Ethics compliance risk and health and safety risks and operational risks, such as IT failure, business continuity, information security and data protection, as well as employee attraction and retention. 48 Securitas Annual and Sustainability Report 2019 GOVERNANCE AND MANAGEMENT Board of Directors’ report on corporate governance and internal control INPUT AND RISK IDENTIFICATION INSURANCE AS A The process starts with risk identification and prioritization during the ERM planning process. As part of the overall RISK MANAGEMENT TOOL annual business plan process, each level of the organization prepares an ERM business plan, which sets the focus and priorities STRATEGY for operational risk management within countries, divisions and Securitas’ insurance and claims strategy is to “act as if the Group for the coming year. The yearly risk assessment prouninsured.” This means that while external insurance cess is coordinated by the Group risk organization. The Group is used to protect the balance sheet and minimize function is also responsible for maintenance of the risk register, fluctuations in earnings, our day-to-day task is to perwhich is updated annually primarily based on the country ERM form our assignment as if we do not have any insubusiness plans, but also on other sources of input. rance in place. One important part of our risk management work POLICY DEVELOPMENT involves taking a proactive approach to contracts and The next step in the process is to assess whether new assignment instructions to prevent claims from occurpolicies need to be created or existing policies need to be updaring. From a risk management perspective, it is importted. Securitas Group policies, which is one of the cornerstones of ant that the contract clearly defines the assignment to Securitas’ ERM process, establish the framework for all policies be performed by Securitas and that our employees’ and compliance monitoring in the Group. The Group policies are assignment instructions mirror the contract. developed by management and key policies are approved by the Board of Directors. A general policy update is released after the IMPORTANCE OF ACTIVE CLAIMS statutory Board meeting in May every year, but specific policies MANAGEMENT are also issued or updated when necessary throughout the year. Another significant part of Securitas’ risk management Some of the key policies adopted that are relevant for goverwork involves active claims management, as well as nance perspectives are Client Contract policy, Securitas’ Values ongoing claims analysis of frequent and large losses and Ethics Code, Communication policy, Competition law compliwith the aim of identifying the underlying driving ance policy, Privacy policy and Insider policy. forces. The claims are analyzed to find out if there are certain types of services, contracts, regions and so RISK MANAGEMENT ACTIVITIES forth that cause insurance claims. As the Group’s The third step of the process is the risk management external insurance premiums are partly determined by activities. The Board of Directors has the ultimate responsibility the historic loss record, a favorable loss record will for governance of risk management while the accountability for contribute to lower premiums and a lower cost of risk. managing risks and for implementing and maintaining control systems in accordance with Group policies is clearly assigned to PROCUREMENT STRATEGY management at Group, divisional and local level. Specifically, diviInsurance programs are procured with the objective of sional management are responsible for all aspects of the operacreating a balanced and cost-efficient protection tions in their divisions, including operational risk management against negative financial impact. Securitas seeks to and risk minimization as well as creating risk awareness through­ achieve economies of scale through coordinated insuout the division. Operating unit managers and country risk manarance programs and the optimal utilization of the gers are responsible for ensuring that risk management is part of Group’s insurance captives. The strategy is to cover the local corporate culture at all levels within a country. the more frequent claims arising in Securitas’ own books. Using insurance captives gives the Group an RISK-BASED MONITORING opportunity to handle part of the claims process interThe identified risks and adopted policies set the structure nally and provides Group Management with an option for the fourth step of the process Risk-based monitoring. Key to establish some independence from the cyclical risks are monitored through self-assessments, audits, risk and nature of commercial insurance markets. control diagnostics (described on page 46-47), legal reviews, sustainability reviews and/or are subject to other monitoring actiBENEFITS FOR OUR CLIENTS vities throughout the year. Monitoring permeates all levels An important advantage of our Global insurance prothroughout the organization and is performed by different fungrams is that our clients can be confident that Securictions depending on whether it is related to operational or finantas’ high-quality insurance cover is consistent in all cial reporting matters. markets. More information on each step of the process is to be found on www.securitas.com Securitas Annual and Sustainability Report 2019 49 GOVERNANCE AND MANAGEMENT Board of Directors’ report on corporate governance and internal control SECURITAS KEY RISKS Securitas’ risk register contains about 50 risks. Out of the 50 rently considered key Group risks and have been assigned pririsks, 14 are selected as top risks that will be subjected to monimary focus during the year. For information on our key risks and toring activities during the year. Out of these, eight risks are curhow they are managed, refer to the table below. INPUT AND POLICY RISK IDENTIFICATION DEVELOPMENT Contract Risk that unreasonable obligations and risks are undertaken The Group has formal policies and guidelines for defining the risk in the contract, resulting in unbalanced terms for the type of approval process and authorization levels for new contracts assignment in question, such as excessive liability, unrealistic as well as how to manage existing contracts. All relevant service levels or unfavorable pricing mechanisms. employees receive training in these policies. In addition, operations are protected by a customized Securitas insurance program, should unforeseen events occur. Read more about Securitas’ insurance and claims strategy on the previous page. Securitas’ Risk of non-compliance with Securitas’ Values and Ethics The Code is one of the key corporate policies that ensures the Values Code (the Code) can ultimately result in reputational damage, company upholds and promotes the highest ethical business lost revenues, penalties, fines, difficulties in recruiting, etc. standards. Securitas’ basic requirement is to act within the and Ethics framework of laws and international conventions, such as the compliance United Nations Universal Declaration of Human Rights. As risk a complement to the Code, the Group has adopted several policies, such as an anti-corruption policy, emission policy, supplier and subcontracting policy, and competition law policy. Information Risk of failing to protect the confidentiality, integrity and/or The Group’s information security policy sets forth Group security risk availability of data and data processing, which may result in Management’s ambition, expectations and directions for operational losses, reputational damage, third-party liabilities information security across the Securitas Group as a further and/or regulatory fines. level of detail to supplement the information security strategy established by the Board of Directors. Assignment Risk that agreed contractual requirements are not met, which The Group policy requires local human resources policies execution risk in turn could adversely impact the contract portfolio churn covering the areas of hiring employees, retaining employees, rate, growth, customer relations and reputation. development and training, and compliance with relevant laws and regulations. Proper recruitment procedures and the training and supervision of security officers are important for mitigating the risk. Compliance Risk that regulatory and other requirements are not met or that Risks related to compliance with laws and regulations are (regulatory Securitas does not meet the compliance expectations in the managed at all levels in the organization, by all employees. The market or among our customers or investors. This could result guiding policy is Securitas’ Values and Ethics Code, but risks are and other) risk in lower quality, higher costs, lost income, delay, penalties, further governed in separate policies relating to specific topics/ fines or reputational damage. areas. Business Risk that key business processes cannot operate following The Group’s business continuity policy requires all entities to continuity an incident which could cause significant disruption to the have a written contingency plan based on the classification of operations. key processes. The plan should also cover key IT systems and be risk linked to controls of IT disruptions, including disaster recovery plans. The plan should cover all relevant areas, including regular updates and testing. Price/ Risk of not being able to manage prices/wages or other Part of the Group financial reporting procedures, reporting production production costs in a desired manner, for example wage of price/wage KPIs at Group level is mandatory as part of the increases not reflected properly in customer contracts which monthly and quarterly reporting package. cost risk could lead to deteriorated margins. Insider Risk that a person in his/her position as employed by, or The Group’s Insider threat policy is to be implemented by all threat risk subcontractors to, Securitas potentially could pose a threat to countries due to the increased risk of terrorism and exposure of Securitas, our clients and/or the public, for example by being insider threat. The aim is to ensure to the largest extent possible involved in organized crime, terrorism, extremistor similar that we can avoid and/or detect employees/subcontractors that activities. potentially could pose a threat to Securitas, to our clients and/ or the public. 50 Securitas Annual and Sustainability Report 2019 GOVERNANCE AND MANAGEMENT Board of Directors’ report on corporate governance and internal control RISK MANAGEMENT RISK-BASED ACTIVITIES MONITORING Contract To manage contract risks in a structured way in the operations, Since contract risk is a key risk, Securitas monitors this through risk we use a business risk evaluation model known as the Scale, reviews (called diagnostics) to test the effectiveness of controls which is part of Securitas’ management model, “The Toolbox”. in the contract management process. Contract risk is also The model evaluates the assignment, risk, contract terms monitored through the ERM self-assessments and business plan and financial aspects. All employees involved in the contract process. management process receive training in the model. Securitas’ All our employees are trained in the Code. In addition, we also The risk is monitored through sustainability reviews, audits, the Values have training requirements for the policies related to the Code, ERM self-assessments and business plan process. The Group such as the anti-corruption policy, competition law policy, and has an Ethics and Sustainability Board, which establishes the and Ethics supplier and subcontractor policy. principles for Securitas’ sustainability work and closely follows compliance up cases of alleged non-compliance with the Code, reported risk through Securitas Integrity Line or other reporting channels. Information Information security risk management will remain a focus area The implementation of the information security policy and security risk over the next few years as the cyber security threat landscape strengthening of relevant capabilities in this domain are evolves. In 2019, Securitas took further steps to enhance monitored using different sources of assurance, such as cyber security capabilities and implemented additional reviews, audits, ERM self-assessments as well as local country preventative controls as well as further developing the monitoring activities. governance model. Assignment Local procedures for security services include a process for The risk is monitored through the ERM self-assessments and execution risk written site instructions ensuring they are defined, up to date, business plan process as well as through local branch audits. known and understood. Compliance It is mandatory that local processes include procedures to The review procedures in the Group are designed to identify any (regulatory ensure compliance with relevant laws and regulations, that changes in regulatory requirements that may affect Securitas’ there is an assigned responsibility for recurring reviews activities and to take the appropriate actions. and other) risk and that action plans are in place for addressing any issues identified. Compliance with GDPR continued to be a key focus during 2019. Business During the last couple of years, Securitas has carried out a The risk is monitored through audits, as well as the ERM selfcontinuity Group project focusing on business continuity planning with assessments and ERM-business plan process. workshops in selected countries throughout the Group to risk share methodologies for creating, testing and maintaining business continuity plans for critical business processes and IT systems. Price/ The processes include measurement, communication, Price/wage increases are monitored and followed up on a production training and support for employees involved in the pricing monthly basis and are part of the monthly reporting package at of our services, at the inception of a contract and for price Group level. cost risk adjustments. Insider All countries are required to implement specific processes The risk and policy implementation are monitored through threat risk and controls to mitigate the risk. Such measures includes: risk Insider threat reviews. The risk is also monitored through the assessment & workshops, screening processes, awareness, ERM self-assessment and the ERM-business plan process. operational measures, reporting channels and investigation procedures. Securitas Annual and Sustainability Report 2019 51 GOVERNANCE AND MANAGEMENT Board of Directors’ report on corporate governance and internal control Stockholm, March 18, 2020 Marie Ehrling Chairman Carl Douglas Ingrid Bonde Vice Chairman Director John Brandon Anders Böös Fredrik Cappelen Director Director Director Sofia Schörling Högberg Dick Seger Director Director Susanne Bergman Israelsson Åse Hjelm Jan Prang Director Director Director Employee Representative Employee Representative Employee Representative Magnus Ahlqvist President and Chief Executive Officer AUDITOR’S REPORT ON THE CORPORATE The scope of the audit Our examination has been conducted in accordance with FAR’s auditing GOVERNANCE STATEMENT standard RevU 16 The auditor’s examination of the corporate governance (translation of the Swedish original) statement. This means that our examination of the corporate governance statement is different and substantially less in scope than an audit conTo the general meeting of the shareholders in ducted in accordance with International Standards on Auditing and generSecuritas AB, corporate identity number 556302-7241 ally accepted auditing standards in ­Sweden. We believe that the examination has provided us with sufficient basis for our opinions. Engagement and responsibility It is the Board of Directors who is responsible for the corporate governance Opinions statement for the year 2019 (on pages 32-52) and that it has been preA corporate governance statement has been prepared. Disclosures in accorpared in accordance with the Annual Accounts Act. dance with chapter 6 section 6 the second paragraph points 2–6 the Annual Accounts Act and chapter 7 section 31 the second paragraph the same law are consistent with the annual accounts and the consolidated accounts and are in accordance with the Annual Accounts Act. Stockholm, March 18, 2020 PricewaterhouseCoopers AB Patrik Adolfson Madeleine Endre Authorized Public Accountant Authorized Public Accountant Auditor in charge 52 Securitas Annual and Sustainability Report 2019 GOVERNANCE AND MANAGEMENT Board of Directors’ report on corporate governance and internal control Securitas Annual and Sustainability Report 2019 53 M A N AG E M E N T AND FINA NC IA L CONT ROL S EC U R I TA S ’ F I N A N C I A L M O D EL – S I X F I N G ER S How to read and understand our finances Securitas’ model focuses on the factors that impact profit, and are clearly linked to operations. Factors are grouped into three categories: volume-related factors, efficiency-related factors and capital-usage-related factors. SECURITAS’ MODEL FOR FINANCIAL KEY FIGURES GROUP OPERATIONS VOLUME-RELATED FACTORS The first two key figures, New sales (of contracts) and Net New sales change (of contract portfolio), relate to the development of the Gross margin on new sales client contract portfolio. New sales are newly signed contracts Terminations that will increase the monthly fixed sales. Net change in the Gross margin on terminations client contract port­folio refers to new starts (a newly signed Net change contract that has started) plus increased sales in existing Price change contracts, less terminated client contracts and reduced sales Organic sales growth Organic sales growth in existing contracts. Price changes are measured separately Acquired sales growth and added to Net change to determine the period’s closing balance of the contract portfolio. The closing balance is the Real sales growth total value of monthly invoicing on our monthly fixed contracts Total sales Total sales at the closing date for the current period. The third key figure, taken from the statement of income, is Total sales, which in addition to contract-based sales, includes short-term guarding assignments but also alarm installations, certain maintenance services, product sales and certain risk management services. EFFICIENCY-RELATED FACTORS The efficiency-related key figures provide managers with tools Employee turnover to monitor service efficiency and cost trends. The fourth and Wage cost increase fifth key figures are: Gross margin, which is defined as total Gross margin sales less direct expenses as a percentage of total sales, and Indirect expenses Indirect expenses, which pertain to the organization and Operating margin Operating margin include sales and administrative expenses (costs of branch, Income before tax area and regional / country offices). Gross income less Indirect Earnings per share expenses equals operating income before amortization of acquisition-related intangible assets and acquisition-related costs. When this is expressed as a percentage of total sales, it indicates the Group’s operating margin, which in Securitas’ financial model, comes before acquisition-related items. CAPITAL-USAGE-RELATED FACTORS In general, Securitas’ operations are not capital intensive. Days of sales outstanding Accounts receivable tie up the most capital. The sixth key Operating capital employed as % of sales Operating capital employed as % of sales figure is Days of sales outstanding (DSO). Payment terms Cash flow from operating activities Cash flow from operating activities and effective collection procedures are decisive in determining as % of operating income before as % of operating income before amortization amortization how much capital is tied up in accounts receivable. These figures are followed up on an ongoing basis at all levels in the Free cash flow organization. Return on capital employed Return on capital employed Free cash flow in relation to net debt 54 Securitas Annual and Sustainability Report 2019 MANAGEMENT AND FI NANCI AL CONTR O L These factors are then assigned key figures that are measured growth and operating margin. There are also complimentary key continuously, allowing managers to make decisions based on figures tailored to measure the business in prioritized areas such facts, enabling them to make quick adjustments if needed. as within security solutions and electronic security. These key The model is also used when analyzing acquisition targets. figures include volume-, efficiencyand capital-usage-related The factors and key figures are used throughout our operations factors that hold specific bearing on the Group’s progress. from branch level to Group level. ­Examples are the number of remote video solution installations, Six key figures represent the backbone of the Six Fingers gross margin on security solution contracts (compared with model (highlighted in the text and table), but there are completraditional guarding contracts), the investment in security equipmentary key figures used by all divisions, such as organic sales ment and order backlog for alarm installations. RELATIONSHIP BETWEEN INCOME, CASH FLOW AND BALANCE SHEET Statement of income vities is an important indicator at operational in net debt corresponds to cash flow for the year The statement of income is broken down accorlevel. It is defined as operating income less plus the change in loans and lease liabilities, ding to function, making responsibility for each investments in non-current tangible and intantranslation differences and also the revaluation profit level clear. Managers with operational gible assets (including equipment for solution of financial instruments. responsibility can easily see what is expected of contracts) plus reversal of depreciation, change them and concentrate on the factors they can in accounts receivable and change in other opeBalance sheet affect. Gross margin and operating margin are rating capital employed. Securitas uses the terms “capital employed” key indicators, and used in reviewing operations Free cash flow is cash flow from operating and “financing of capital employed” to desat both divisional and Group level. Amortization activities less net financial items paid and curcribe the balance sheet and financial position. of acquisition-related intangible assets, acquisirent taxes paid. Cash flow for the year is arrived Capital employed consists of operating capital tion-related costs, financial items and taxes are at when cash flow relating to acquisitions and employed plus goodwill, acquisition-related monitored separately. shareholders’ equity is deducted from free cash intangible assets and shares in associated comflow. panies. Statement of cash flow The consolidation of net debt in foreign Operating capital employed, which consists In principle, operating income should generate currencies usually generates a translation of operating non-current tangible and intangible the same amount of cash flow from operating difference that is reported separately. In addiassets and working capital, is continuously activities. The cash flow is affected by investtion, accounting standards require that certain moni­tored at the operating level to avoid ments in non-current tangible and intangible elements of the net debt are revalued to market un­necessary tied-up capital. Capital employed assets used in operations and by changes in value after the initial recognition and this revais financed by net debt and shareholders’ equity. working capital. Cash flow from operating actiluation is also reported separately. The change Operating income before Operating non-current tangible Total sales amortization and intangible assets Investments in non-current tangible Organic sales growth, % Accounts receivable and intangible assets Production expenses Reversal of depreciation Other operating capital employed Net investments in non-current Gross income Operating capital employed tangible and i­ ntangible assets Gross margin, % Change in accounts receivable Change in other operating Branch office expenses capital employed Other selling and Cash flow from operating activities administrative expenses Other operating income Net financial items paid Share in income of Current taxes paid associated companies Operating income before Free cash flow amortization Operating margin, % Acquisitions Shareholders Amortization of net debt This picture shows the connection between the statement of income, the statement of cash flow and the balance sheet. Different colors are used for the sake of clarity. Operating items Net-debt-related items Goodwill, taxes and non-operating Items Items related to shareholders’ equity Securitas Annual and Sustainability Report 2019 55 T H E FO R M A L A N N UA L ACCO U N T S A N D T H E CO NS O L I DAT ED ACCO U N T S CO M P R IS E PAG E S 57–143 Annual Report Note 1 General corporate information 75 REPORT OF THE BOARD Note 2 Accounting principles 75 OF DIRECTORS 57 Note 3 Definitions, calculation of key ratios and CONSOLIDATED exchange rates 81 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Note 4 Critical estimates and judgments 84 Note 5 Events after the balance sheet date 85 Consolidated statement of income 68 Note 6 Revenue 86 Consolidated statement of Note 7 Financial risk management 87 Note 8 Transactions with related parties 95 comprehensive income 68 Note 9 Remuneration to the Board of Directors Consolidated statement of cash flow 70 and senior management 95 Note 10 Segment reporting 98 Consolidated balance sheet 72 Note 11 Operating income 101 Consolidated statement of changes Note 12 Personnel 102 in shareholders’ equity 74 Note 13 Depreciation and amortization 104 Note 14 Net financial items 104 NOTES AND COMMENTS Note 15 Taxes 104 TO THE CONSOLIDATED Note 16 Acquisitions and divestitures of subsidiaries 106 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 75 Note 17 Goodwill and impairment testing 109 Note 18 Acquisition related intangible assets 110 Note 19 Other intangible assets 111 PARENT COMPANY Note 20 Right-of-use assets 111 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Note 21 Tangible non-current assets 112 Note 22 Shares in associated companies 112 Parent Company statement of income 128 Note 23 Interest-bearing financial non-current assets 112 Parent Company statement of Note 24 Other long-term receivables 112 comprehensive income 128 Note 25 Inventories 113 Note 26 Accounts receivable 113 Parent Company statement of cash flow 128 Note 27 Other current receivables 113 Parent Company balance sheet 129 Note 28 Other interest-bearing current assets 113 Note 29 Liquid funds 113 Parent Company statement of Note 30 Shareholders’ equity 113 changes in shareholders’ equity 130 Note 31 Long-term liabilities excluding provisions 114 Note 32 P rovisions for pensions and similar NOTES AND COMMENTS ­commitments 115 TO THE PARENT COMPANY Note 33 Other long-term provisions 121 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 131 Note 34 Short-term loan liabilities 121 Note 35 Other current liabilities 121 Note 36 Short-term provisions 122 SIGNATURES OF THE Note 37 Pledged assets 122 BOARD OF DIRECTORS 138 Note 38 Contingent liabilities 122 Note 39 Financial five year overview 124 AUDITOR’S REPORT 139 Note 40 Remeasurement for hyperinflation 126 SUSTAINABILITY NOTES 144 Note 41 Adoption and impact of IFRS 16 Leases 127 Note 42 Accounting principles 131 QUARTERLY DATA 160 Note 43 Events after the balance sheet date 131 THE SECURITAS SHARE 162 Note 44 Transactions with related parties 132 Note 45 Financial risk management 132 FINANCIAL INFORMATION Note 46 Administrative expenses and AND INVITATION TO THE other operating income 134 ANNUAL GENERAL MEETING 164 Note 47 Personnel 134 Note 48 Other financial income and expenses, net 135 Note 49 Taxes 135 Note 50 Intangible assets 135 Note 51 Machinery and equipment 135 Note 52 Shares in subsidiaries 136 Note 53 Shares in associated companies 136 Note 54 Prepaid expenses and accrued income 137 Note 55 Liquid funds 137 Note 56 Shareholders’ equity 137 Note 57 Untaxed reserves 137 Note 58 Long-term liabilities 137 Note 59 Accrued expenses and prepaid income 137 Note 60 Pledged assets 137 Note 61 Contingent liabilities 137 56 Securitas Annual and Sustainability Report 2019 R E P O R T O F T H E B O A R D O F D I R EC T O R S Report of the Board of Directors The Board of Directors and the President of Securitas AB (publ.), corporate registration number 556302-7241, with its registered office in Stockholm, hereby submit the Annual Report and consolidated financial statements for the 2019 financial year. Securitas offers protective services based on client-specific Sales needs through different combinations of on-site, mobile and Sales amounted to MSEK 110 899 (101 467) and organic sales remote guarding, electronic security, fire and safety and corporate growth to 4 percent (6). Security Services North America deliverisk management. Securitas operates in 56 countries in North red organic sales growth of 4 percent (6) on a strong comparaAmerica, Europe, Latin America, Africa, the Middle East, Asia and tive. Security Services Europe showed organic sales growth of Australia, with 370 000 employees. 2 percent (4), primarily hampered by the previously communicaIn 2019 the Securitas Group consisted of the business segted termination of a few major contracts. Security Services Iberoments Security Services North America, Security Services Europe America delivered 14 percent (12). and Security Services Ibero-America. In addition to these busiReal sales growth, including acquisitions and adjusted for ness segments, the Group conducts operations in Africa, the changes in exchange rates, was 6 percent (8). Middle East, Asia and Australia, which are included under the Sales of security solutions and electronic security sales heading Other in the segment report in note 10. amounted to MSEK 23 290 (20 440) or 21 percent (20) of total Securitas has adopted IFRS 16 Leases as of January 1, 2019. sales in the full year. Real sales growth, including acquisitions and The cumulative effect of the adoption has been recognized withadjusted for changes in exchange rates, was 10 percent (21). out restatement of the comparative periods. Further information can be found in notes 2 and 41. SALES JANUARY – DECEMBER Organic sales growth was 4 percent (6), a decline on a strong MSEK 2019 2018 % comparative, but also reflected the slowdown in some key marTotal sales 110 899 101 467 9 kets during the second half of 2019. Securitas grew faster than Currency change from 2018 -3 693 – the security market in general and have the strongest offering of Currency adjusted sales 107 206 101 467 6 protective services, including security solutions and electronic Acquisitions / divestitures -1 339 -34 security, which grew by 10 percent in 2019, to represent 21 perOrganic sales 105 867 101 433 4 cent of total Group sales. Securitas recently acquired two strategically important electronic security companies, Fredon Security Operating income before amortization in Australia and Techco Security in Spain, the latter making Spain Operating income before amortization was MSEK 5 738 (5 304) the second largest electronic security business in the Group. which, adjusted for changes in exchange rates, represented a real The operating margin was on par with last year. The price and change of 3 percent (9). wage balance improved towards the end of the year and will The Group’s operating margin was 5.2 percent (5.2). The operemain a key focus area going into 2020. rating margin improved in Security Services North America and The operating result, adjusted for changes in exchange rates, Security Services Ibero-America, while it declined in Security Sergrew by 3 percent in 2019. vices Europe. Continued strategy-related investments at the Securitas achieved the highest operating and free cash flow Group level, included under ”Other” in the segment reporting, had ever in 2019. The strong focus on cash management remains a an impact of –0.1 percentage points on the Group’s operating key priority across all business segments. margin. Total price adjustments in the Group were slightly behind Earnings per share amounted to SEK 9.20 (8.26), a total wage cost increases in the full year. change of 11 percent compared with the preceding year. The real The adoption of IFRS 16 Leases had a positive impact on the change in earnings per share in 2019 was 6 percent. EPS before operating result of MSEK 80 in 2019. For further information items affecting comparability amounted to SEK 9.61, represenrefer to note 41. ting a total change of 5 percent compared with the preceding year and a real change of –1 percent in 2019. The real change in EPS was negatively impacted by the adoption of IFRS 16 as well as by the higher tax rate compared to last year. Together, these two factors had an impact of –4.5 percentage points. Adjusted, the real change in EPS before items affecting comparability would have been 4 percent in 2019. The free cash flow to net debt ratio was 0.19 (0.13) and the net debt to EBITDA ratio was 2.2 (2.3), both impacted by IFRS 16. For further information, refer to note 41. Securitas Annual and Sustainability Report 2019 57 R E P O R T O F T H E B O A R D O F D I R EC T O R S OPERATING INCOME JANUARY – DECEMBER CONDENSED STATEMENT OF INCOME ACCORDING TO SECURITAS’ FINANCIAL MODEL MSEK 2019 2018 % MSEK 2019 2018 Operating income before amortization 5 738 5 304 8 Total sales 110 899 101 467 Currency change from 2018 -255 – Organic sales growth, % 4 6 Currency adjusted operating Production expenses -91 588 -83 570 income before amortization 5 483 5 304 3 Gross income 19 311 17 897 Selling and administrative expenses -13 637 -12 654 Operating income after amortization Other operating income 34 30 Amortization of acquisition related intangible assets amounted to Share in income of associated companies 30 31 MSEK –271 (–260). Operating income before amortization 5 738 5 304 Acquisition related costs were MSEK –62 (–120). For further Operating margin, % 5.2 5.2 information refer to note 11. Amortization of acquisition related intangible assets -271 -260 Items affecting comparability were MSEK –209 (–455), related Acquisition related costs -62 -120 to the IS/IT transformation programs. For further information refer Items affecting comparability -209 -455 to note 11. Operating income after amortization 5 196 4 469 Operating income after amortization was MSEK 5 196 Financial income and expenses -578 -441 (4 469). Income before taxes 4 618 4 028 Taxes -1 256 -1 007 Financial income and expenses Net income for the year 3 362 3 021 Financial income and expenses amounted to MSEK –578 (–441), Securitas’ financial model is described on pages 54-55. with the comparative including a one-off effect of MSEK –46 relaOperating items. Net debt-related items. ting to the re-financing of high interest-bearing debt items in Goodwill, taxes and non-operating items. Items related to shareholders’ equity. Argentina. The adoption of IFRS 16 Leases had a negative impact of MSEK –148. Furthermore, financial income and expenDevelopment in the Group’s business segments ses were negatively impacted by a weaker Swedish krona and Security Services North America increased net debt. Financial income and expenses were positiSALES AND INCOME vely impacted in an amount of MSEK 25 related to hyperinflation Change, % accounting in Argentina. Refer to note 40. MSEK 2019 2018 Total Real Income before taxes Total sales 48 499 42 366 14 6 Organic sales growth, % 4 6 Income before taxes amounted to MSEK 4 618 (4 028). The Share of Group sales, % 44 42 adoption of IFRS 16 Leases had a negative effect of MSEK –68 Operating income on income before taxes. For further information refer to note 41. before amortization 3 003 2 589 16 8 Operating margin, % 6.2 6.1 Taxes, net income and earnings per share Share of Group operating income, % 52 49 The Group’s tax rate was 27.2 percent (25.0). The tax rate before Further information regarding the statement of income, cash flow and capital employed is provided in tax on items affecting comparability was 27.2 percent (25.2). note 10. Net income was MSEK 3 362 (3 021). The adoption of IFRS 16 Leases had a negative effect of MSEK –49 on net income. Organic sales growth was 4 percent (6), on a strong comparative Earnings per share amounted to SEK 9.20 (8.26). Earnings and a client retention rate of 90 percent (91). The main contribuper share before items affecting comparability amounted to SEK tion to organic sales growth derived from the five geographical 9.61 (9.17). regions and Pinkerton Corporate Risk Management. Security solutions and electronic security sales represented MSEK 8 885 (7 365) or 18 percent (17) of total sales in the business segment for the full year. The operating margin was 6.2 percent (6.1), an improvement supported by several business units, including a good development in the five geographical regions. The operating margin was hampered by a temporary decline in the critical infrastructure services business unit in the fourth quarter. The adoption of IFRS 16 Leases had a positive impact on the operating result in the business segment. 58 Securitas Annual and Sustainability Report 2019 R E P O R T O F T H E B O A R D O F D I R EC T O R S The Swedish krona exchange rate weakened against the US Organic sales growth was 14 percent (12). The improvement dollar, which had a positive effect on operating income in Swederived mainly from Spain and from price increases in Argentina. dish kronor. The real change was 8 percent in the full year. The client retention rate was 92 percent (92). Security solutions and electronic security sales represented Security Services Europe MSEK 3 527 (3 270) or 27 percent (27) of total sales in the business segment. SALES AND INCOME The operating margin was 4.7 percent (4.5), driven mainly by Change, % a strong development in Spain, but burdened by the weak fourth MSEK 2019 2018 Total Real quarter in Peru. The adoption of IFRS 16 Leases had a positive Total sales 47 248 45 040 5 3 impact on the operating result in the business segment. Organic sales growth, % 2 4 As previously communicated, management changes have Share of Group sales, % 43 44 been made in Argentina. Following internal whistleblowing SecuOperating income ritas has conducted an investigation into potentially improper before amortization 2 582 2 511 3 1 Operating margin, % 5.5 5.6 conduct through specialized external parties. For further informaShare of Group operating income, % 45 47 tion, see below under Other significant events. Furthermore, the general environment in Argentina remains challenging. Further information regarding the statement of income, cash flow and capital employed is provided in note 10. The Swedish krona exchange rate strengthened against the Argentinian peso, while it weakened against the Euro. The net Organic sales growth was 2 percent (4), a decline mainly explaieffect was negative on operating income in Swedish kronor. The ned by the contract terminations in France and the UK earlier in real change in the segment was 14 percent in 2019. the year. The client retention rate was 90 percent (93). The main contribution to organic sales growth derived from Belgium, GerCash flow many, the Nordic countries and the guarding business in Turkey. The adoption of IFRS16 Leases had no net impact on cash flow Security solutions and electronic security sales represented from operating activities nor on the free cash flow according to MSEK 10 611 (9 638) or 22 percent (21) of total sales in the Securitas financial model. The cash flow is consequently prepabusiness segment. red on the same basis as in 2018. The operating margin was 5.5 percent (5.6), hampered primaCash flow from operating activities amounted to MSEK 4 902 rily by Sweden as well as a negative impact from Belgium and the (3 172), equivalent to 85 percent (60) of operating income Netherlands. The operating margin was supported by final gains before amortization. related to the settlement of existing defined benefit pension The impact from changes in accounts receivable was MSEK plans in Norway, and by the cost savings program initiated during –239 (–1 575) with improved cash collections in all business seg2018. The adoption of IFRS 16 Leases had a positive impact on ments. Changes in other operating capital employed were MSEK the operating result in the business segment. –277 (–62). The Swedish krona exchange rate weakened against foreign Cash flow from operating activities include net investments in currencies, primarily the Euro, which had a positive effect on openon-current tangible and intangible assets, amounting to MSEK rating income in Swedish kronor. The real change was 1 percent –320 (–495). The net investments include capital expenditures in in the full year. equipment for solution contracts and is the result of investments of MSEK –3 010 (–2 188) and reversal of depreciation of MSEK Security Services Ibero-America 2 690 (1 693). The adoption of IFRS 16 Leases impacted investments with MSEK –970 and reversal of depreciation with SALES AND INCOME MSEK 890. Change, % Free cash flow was MSEK 3 268 (1 884), equivalent to MSEK 2019 20181 Total Real 83 percent (48) of adjusted income. Total sales 13 099 12 315 6 14 Cash flow from investing activities, acquisitions, was MSEK Organic sales growth, % 14 12 –574 (–1 755), of which purchase price payments accounted for Share of Group sales, % 12 12 MSEK –533 (–1 700), assumed net debt for MSEK 39 (42) and Operating income acquisition related costs paid for MSEK –80 (–97). before amortization 614 550 12 14 Operating margin, % 4.7 4.5 Cash flow from items affecting comparability amounted to Share of Group operating income, % 11 10 MSEK –303 (–117). Refer to note 11 for further information. Cash flow from financing activities was MSEK –1 699 (–376) Further information regarding the statement of income, cash flow and capital employed is provided in note 10. due to dividend paid of MSEK –1 606 (–1 460) and a net 1 A s of July 1, 2018, Securitas has adopted IAS 29 Financial reporting in hyperinflationary economies decrease in borrowings of MSEK –93 (1 084). for our operations in Argentina. When calculating the key ratios for organic sales growth percentage Cash flow for the period was MSEK 692 (–364). The closing and real change percentage, the impact from the remeasurement is treated similarly to currency change. The calculated key ratio percentages are thus comparable as to how these were calculated balance for liquid funds after translation differences of MSEK 27 before the adoption of IAS 29. The impact from IAS 29 is a remeasurement of sales 2019 with MSEK was MSEK 3 948 (3 229). –12 (–63) and a remeasurement of operating income before amortization 2019 of MSEK –2 (–3). Securitas Annual and Sustainability Report 2019 59 R E P O R T O F T H E B O A R D O F D I R EC T O R S CONDENSED STATEMENT OF CASH FLOW The free cash flow to net debt ratio amounted to 0.19 (0.13). ACCORDING TO SECURITAS’ FINANCIAL MODEL The net debt to EBITDA ratio was 2.2 (2.3). The interest coverMSEK 2019 2018 age ratio amounted to 9.4 (10.7). Adjusted for the impact of Operating income before amortization 5 738 5 304 IFRS 16 Leases the free cash flow to net debt ratio would have Investments in non-current tangible been 0.23 (0.13) and the net debt to EBITDA ratio would have and intangible assets -3 010 -2 188 been 2.0 (2.3), while the interest coverage ratio would have been Reversal of depreciation 2 690 1 693 12.2 (10.7). Net investments in non-current tangible and intangible assets -320 -495 Securitas has a revolving credit facility with its 12 key relationChange in accounts receivable -239 -1 575 ship banks. This credit facility comprises two respective tranches Change in other operating capital employed -277 -62 of MUSD 550 and MEUR 440 and matures in 2022. On DecemCash flow from operating activities 4 902 3 172 ber 31, 2019, the facility was undrawn. Further information Cash flow from operating activities, % 85 60 regarding financial instruments and credit facilities is provided in Financial income and expenses paid -443 -432 note 7. Current taxes paid -1 191 -856 Standard and Poor’s rating for Securitas is BBB with positive Free cash flow 3 268 1 884 outlook. Free cash flow, % 83 48 Shareholders’ equity amounted to MSEK 19 599 (17 657). Cash flow from investing activities, The translation of foreign assets and liabilities into Swedish acquisitions and divestitures -574 -1 755 kronor increased shareholders’ equity by MSEK 73. Refer to the Cash flow from items affecting comparability -303 -117 statement of comprehensive income for further information. Cash flow from financing activities -1 699 -376 Cash flow for the year 692 -364 The total number of shares amounted to 365 058 897 (365 058 897) as of December 31, 2019. On June 24, 2019, Securitas’ financial model is described on pages 54-55. Operating items. Net debt-related items. 125 000 shares were repurchased. Refer to note 30 for further Goodwill, taxes and non-operating items. information. Capital employed and financing CONDENSED CAPITAL EMPLOYED AND FINANCING Capital employed ACCORDING TO SECURITAS’ FINANCIAL MODEL The Group’s operating capital employed was MSEK 13 100 MSEK 2019 2018 (9 199), corresponding to 12 percent of sales (9), adjusted for Operating capital employed 13 100 9 199 the full-year sales figures of acquired units. Adjusted for the Operating capital employed as % of sales 12 9 impact of IFRS 16 Leases the operating capital employed as perGoodwill 22 157 21 061 cent of sales would have been 9 percent (9). The adoption of Acquisition related intangible assets 1 563 1 458 IFRS 16 Leases increased the Group’s operating capital employed Shares in associated companies 320 452 by MSEK 3 433 as of January 1, 2019, while the translation of Total capital employed 37 140 32 170 foreign operating capital employed to Swedish kronor decreased Return on capital employed, % 15 15 the Group’s operating capital employed by MSEK 26. Net debt 17 541 14 513 The annual impairment test of all Cash Generating Units Shareholders’ equity 19 599 17 657 Total financing 37 140 32 170 (CGU), which is required under IFRS, took place during the third quarter 2019 in conjunction with the business plan process for Securitas’ financial model is described on pages 54-55. 2020. In 2019, IFRS 16 has been adopted on segment level. The Operating items. Net debt-related items. Goodwill and non-operating items. Items related to shareholders’ equity. Group has changed the level of impairment testing for goodwill from country level to segment level. None of the CGUs tested for NET DEBT DEVELOPMENT impairment had a carrying amount that exceeded the recoverable MSEK 2019 2018 amount. Consequently, no impairment losses have been recogniOpening balance January 1 -14 513 -12 333 zed in 2019. No impairment losses were recognized in 2018 either. Cash flow from operating activities 4 902 3 172 The Group’s total capital employed was MSEK 37 140 Financial income and expenses paid -443 -432 (32 170). The translation of foreign capital employed to Swedish Current taxes paid -1 191 -856 kronor increased the Group’s capital employed by MSEK 614. Free cash flow 3 268 1 884 The return on capital employed was 15 percent (15). Adjusted Cash flow from investing activities, for the impact of IFRS 16 Leases the return on capital employed acquisitions and divestitures -574 -1 755 would have been 16 percent (15). Cash flow from items affecting comparability -303 -117 Dividend paid -1 606 -1 460 Financing Change in lease liabilities -3 332 – The Group’s net debt amounted to MSEK 17 541 (14 513). The Change in net debt before revaluation and translation -2 547 -1 448 net debt was positively impacted mainly by the free cash flow of MSEK 3 268. It was negatively impacted mainly by a change in Revaluation of financial instruments 60 26 lease liabilities of MSEK –3 332, a dividend of MSEK –1 606, paid Translation differences -541 -758 to the shareholders in May 2019, payments for acquisitions of Change in net debt -3 028 -2 180 MSEK –574 and the translation of net debt in foreign currency to Closing balance December 31 -17 541 -14 513 Swedish kronor of MSEK –541. 60 Securitas Annual and Sustainability Report 2019 R E P O R T O F T H E B O A R D O F D I R EC T O R S Acquisitions and divestitures ACQUISITIONS AND DIVESTITURES JANUARY-DECEMBER 2019 (MSEK) Acq. related Included Acquired Annual Enterprise intangible Company Business segment1 from share2 sales 3 value 4 Goodwill assets Opening balance 21 061 1 458 Global Elite Group, the US 6 Security Services NorthAmerica Jan 10 100 290 163 123 70 Allcooper Group, the UK6 Security Services Europe Apr 1 100 88 59 31 26 Staysafe, Australia 6 Other Apr 4 100 72 83 126 57 MSM Security Services, the US 6 Security Services NorthAmerica Oct 5 – 140 6 42 61 Other acquisitions and divestitures5,6 – – 440 183 107 118 Total acquisitions and divestitures January–December 2019 1 030 494 429 332 Amortization of acquisition related intangible assets – -271 Translation differences and remeasurement for hyperinflation 667 44 Closing balance 22 157 1 563 1 Refers to business segment with main responsibility for the acquisition. Portugal and Beijing Saikudasi Consultancy Management, China. Related also to deferred consider2 Refers to voting rights for acquisitions in the form of share purchase agreements. For asset deals no ations paid in Sweden, Germany, France, Austria, Czech Republic, Australia, China and Hong Kong. voting rights are stated. 6D eferred considerations have been recognized mainly based on an assessment of the future profit3 Estimated annual sales. ability development in the acquired entities for an agreed period. The net of new deferred consid4 P urchase price paid plus acquired net debt but excluding any deferred considerations. erations, payments made from previously recognized deferred considerations and revaluation of 5 Related to other acquisitions for the period and updated previous year acquisition calculations for the deferred considerations in the Group was MSEK 147. Total deferred considerations, short-term and following entities: Iverify (step acquisition), the US, Nortrax Veg og Trafikk, Norway, WHD Wachdilong-term, in the Group’s balance sheet amount to MSEK 425. enst Heidelberg, Wachund Schließgesellschaft Hof Inh. I Müller, Germany, Securitas Interim (divestiture), Cezzam, France, 4CS Security (contract portfolio), Austria, Pronet, DAK, Turkey, Instalfogo, All acquisition calculations are finalized no later than one year neering, installation, commissioning and maintenance. The comafter the acquisition is made. Transactions with non-controlling pany has approximately 110 employees with a strong footprint interests are specified in the statement of changes in shareholacross Australia’s key geographical markets; Melbourne, Canders’ equity. Transaction costs and revaluation of deferred consiberra, Brisbane, Perth and Sydney, where it is headquartered. derations can be found in note 11. Through strong organic growth the company has established a For further information regarding acquisitions and divestitures robust market position in the technology, commercial and in 2019, refer to note 16. government client segments. Fredon Security’s annual sales was MAUD 37 (MSEK 240) in the financial year ending June 2019. Other significant events The purchase price is estimated to MAUD 32 (MSEK 210). The Investigation into improper behavior, Argentina acquisition was consolidated into Securitas as of January 9, As previously communicated, management changes have been 2020. made in Argentina. Following internal whistleblowing Securitas Securitas reinforces its leadership position within the electrohas conducted an investigation into potentially improper conduct nic security market in Spain through the acquisition of Techco through specialized external parties. Security, a leading electronic security company. Techco Security The findings revealed that certain individuals have engaged in offers a comprehensive range of integrated security services local business practices in violation of the Securitas Values and including installation, maintenance and remote guarding services Ethics Code. The investigation indicates compliance issues, incluas well as access control, electronic alarm surveillance and fire ding conflicts of interest and irregular supplier and other business protection, and supports clients through two operations centers relationships. Disciplinary measures against these individuals, in Madrid and Barcelona. The company has approximately 520 including terminations where appropriate, have been taken and employees with a strong footprint across Spain and Portugal. Securitas is considering whether to take further legal action. Techco Security’s annual sales was MEUR 50 (MSEK 520) in Securitas is now proactively collaborating with the appropriate 2018. The purchase price is estimated to MEUR 22 (MSEK 230). authorities to ensure that Securitas fulfills all obligations as a The acquisition was closed and consolidated into Securitas as of responsible company. This includes correcting the income and January 8, 2020. value added tax by paying the corresponding additional tax and In order to hedge the share portion of Securitas short-term interest charges of approximately MSEK 130 to the local tax share-based incentive scheme 2019, the Group entered into a administration. The tax contingency payment is covered by exisswap agreement with a third party in the beginning of March ting provisions. The Group assesses that the impact of the 2020. misconduct will not have a material effect on the result or finanThere have been no other significant events with effect on the cial position of the Group. financial reporting after the balance sheet date. Other significant events after the balance sheet date Changes in Group Management Securitas has acquired Fredon Security, founded in 2012 as a and creation of functional units division within Fredon Group, an Australian engineering and builThree new global functional units have been created and chanding services company. Fredon Security is specialized in highges to the Securitas Group Management team have been made end electronic security solutions including system design, engito support the strategy and related to upcoming retirements. Securitas Annual and Sustainability Report 2019 61 R E P O R T O F T H E B O A R D O F D I R EC T O R S From July 1, 2019 the three new global functional units are: Contract and acquisition risks • Global Clients & Vertical Markets, responsible for Securitas largest global clients and for developing specialization in new This category encompasses the risks related to entering into a client contract and also those risks related to the acquisition of vertical markets. new businesses. • Global Electronic Security Business Center, responsible for developing a global business approach with common tools, When entering into a contract with a client a balanced allocation of responsibilities and risks between Securitas and the client processes, products and services within Electronic Security. is essential. Standardized contracts are the norm. Reasonable • Global Guarding Center of Excellence, responsible for continuing to strengthen our core by developing global expertise, caps on potential liability and indemnification for third-party claims are important. Significant focus is devoted to contract risks and the management of contract risks. Each segment has develocommon tools and processes within Guarding. ped policies and procedures tailored to their specific needs. These policies are all based on the contract policies approved by The following changes in Group Management took effect from the Board of Directors in the Group Policies. July 1, 2019: • Brian Riis Nielsen appointed to SVP Global Clients, leader of the Global Clients & Vertical Markets function and a member In addition to organic growth resulting from new and / or increased client contracts the Group has grown by a significant number of acquisitions over the years and will, as part of the of Securitas Group Management • Group’s strategy, continue to acquire security companies. The Tony Byerly continues in his role as President, Securitas Elecintegration of new companies always carries certain risks. The tronic Security North America and was appointed to a profitability of the acquired company may be lower than expecmember of Securitas Group Management. Tony Byerly will ted and / or certain costs in connection with the acquisition may also lead the Global Electronic Security Business Center unit • be higher than expected. Luis Posadas retired from his role as Divisional President The acquisitions made during 2019 are described under the Ibero-America and stepped down from Securitas Group heading Acquisitions and divestitures above and in note 16. Management. • Jorge Couto appointed to Divisional President Ibero-America and a member of Securitas Group Management. Operational assignment risks Operational assignment risks are risks associated with daily opera• Andreas Lindback continues in his role as Divisional President AMEA and appointed a member of Securitas Group Managetions and the services we provide to our clients including risks related to necessary infrastructure to run the business. For example, ment. when services do not meet the required standards and result in loss of property, damage to property or bodily injury. Proper recruThe following changes took effect from January 1, 2020: itment, training and supervision of security officers are important to • Santiago Galaz was appointed Executive Chairman of Securitas North America and stepped down from Securitas Group mitigate these risks. Another type of operational assignment risk which may impact profitability is the risk that Securitas will not be Management. able to increase prices to be paid by clients in order to compensate • Greg Anderson was appointed to President, North American Guarding, and a member of Securitas Group Management. fully for increases in wages and related costs. • José Castejon was appointed to Chief Operating Officer, North American Guarding and a member of Securitas Group ManaFinancial risks The financial risks include risks related to financial reporting, as well as financial risks related to external financing needs including curgement. José will also lead the Global Guarding Center of rency exposure. Excellence unit. • Financial risks are mainly managed through continuous measuBill Barthelemy retired from his role as Chief Operating Officer, rement and follow-up of financial performance, with the help of North America and stepped down from Securitas Group Securitas’ financial model. This model identifies certain key figures Management. Bill will assist as an advisor and continue worthat are vital to the profitability of the operations, and facilitates the king with select clients through 2021. detection and handling of risks. The financial model is described in more detail on pages 54-55. In addition, financial risks (other than The following individuals continue in their present roles: Bart relating to financial reporting) arise because the Group has external Adam (CFO), Peter Karlströmer (Divisional President Security financing needs and operates in a number of foreign currencies. Services Europe), Henrik Zetterberg (COO Security Services The risks are mainly interest rate risk, foreign currency risk, finanEurope), Aimé Lyagre (COO and CTO Security Services Europe), cing and liquidity risk and credit / counterparty risk. Marc Pissens (President Aviation), Martin Althén (CIO), Jan LindThe client credit risk, that is the risk of Securitas’ clients not ström (SVP Finance), Frida Rosenholm (SVP General Counsel) being able to fulfill their obligation of paying invoices for services and Helena Andreas (SVP Brand & Communications). being provided, is reduced by the fact that the numerous clients are spread over many business sectors and geographies, and by Risk and uncertainties established routines for monitoring and collecting of accounts Managing risk is necessary for Securitas to be able to fulfill its receivable within the organization. Further information regarding strategies and achieve its corporate objectives. Securitas’ financial risk management is provided above under the section approach to enterprise risk management is described in more Capital employed and financing / Financing and in note 7. detail on pages 48-51. The preparation of financial reports requires the Board of Securitas’ risks fall into three main categories: contract and Directors and Group Management to make estimates and judgacquisition risks, operational assignment risks and financial risks. ments. Estimates and judgments will impact the statement of 62 Securitas Annual and Sustainability Report 2019 R E P O R T O F T H E B O A R D O F D I R EC T O R S income and the balance sheet, as well as disclosures such as and positive impacts are expected starting in 2021 and gradually contingent liabilities. Actual results may differ from these estimaincreasing during 2022, as previously communicated. tes and judgments under different circumstances and conditions. Securitas is a service company and has historically not carried Further information regarding critical estimates and judgments is out any material research and development activities as defined provided in note 4. in IAS 38 Intangible assets. Under the responsibility of the For the forthcoming twelve-month period, the financial impact Group’s Chief Information Officer the Group has gradually of certain items affecting comparability, provisions and contingent invested in capabilities to develop improved data-driven and liabilities, as described in note 11, note 33, note 36 and note 38 intelligence-based services for a future where scale and data respectively, may vary from the current financial estimates and availability are critical for the next big shift in the security services provisions made by management. This could affect the profitabiindustry to the benefit our clients and society as a whole. A lity and the financial position of the Group. number of development projects that supports this are ongoing and as of December 31, 2019 the Group had MSEK 49 (23) in Statutory Sustainability Report capitalized development expenditures. The statutory Sustainability Report is included in separate parts of the Securitas AB Annual Report 2019 and is not a part of the Information regarding the Securitas share statutory Annual Report. Information about the Securitas share regarding the number of Securitas AB’s Sustainability Report describes the Group’s work shares of Series A and Series B, differences between shares in with regards to economic, environmental and social aspects. The Series A and Series B as well as information on major shareholreport is prepared according to the Sustainability Reporting Standers can be found in note 30. Further information regarding the dards, issued by Global Reporting Initiative (GRI). The SustainabiSecuritas share can also be found on pages 162-163. lity reporting also includes the statutory Sustainability Report In order to be able to contribute to shareholder value, the under Chapter 6 Section 11 of the Annual Accounts Act. Board considers it beneficial for the company to be able to adjust Securitas is a service company with relatively low environ­ the company’s capital structure as appropriate at each point in mental impact compared with a manufacturing company. The time. The Board has therefore decided to propose to the Annual operations of the Group do not require a permit under the SweGeneral Meeting on May 7, 2020, that the Board be authorized dish Environmental Code. to be able to resolve on the acquisition of the company’s shares for a period until the next Annual General Meeting, up to a maxiINFORMATION ABOUT: See page mum of ten (10) percent of all shares in the company. There is Environment 147, 149, 153 currently an authorization by the Annual General Meeting held on Social conditions 146-148 May 6, 2019, to the Board of Directors to repurchase Securitas 10-13, 30, 144, 147, shares for the purpose of adjusting the company’s capital strucPersonnel 148, 150-152 ture, be able to exploit acquisition opportunities and/or to ensure Respect for human rights 13, 147 the company’s undertakings in respect of share-based incentive Anti-corruption 146, 149 programs (other than delivery of shares to participants of incenValue creation 10-11 tive programs). On June 24, 2019, 125 000 shares were Sustainability risks 148-149 repurchased in order to ensure the company’s undertaking In GRI index 155-157 respect of existing share-based Incentive programs. These shares are held as treasury shares and have not reduced the Research and development company’s share capital. The service offering of the Group is continuously being develoA shareholders’ agreement that among other items comprises ped, not least as an integrated item when carrying out the service preemption rights for the sale of Series A shares by any part exists delivery to the clients. Technical solutions are an important part among the Douglas family and Schörling family and companies of the security solutions that Securitas offers. In order to support closely related to them. Apart from this, the Board of Directors of this development, a Chief Technology Officer (CTO) position with Securitas AB is not aware of any shareholders’ agreements or supporting staff has been implemented in all major countries as other arrangements between shareholders of Securitas AB. well as on divisional level. As mentioned above the Group has also during 2019 created a Global Electronic Security Business Group development Center, responsible for developing a global business approach Securitas continues to drive the development in the security serwith common tools, processes, products and services within vices industry. With the strongest client offering and a strong Electronic Security. The capabilities within technical solutions is team around the world, organic sales growth was 4 percent and also supported by a number of acquisitions within Electronic we continued to grow faster than the market. The operating security such as the ones completed during 2019 or at the margin was stable compared with the previous year. beginning of 2020 with Allcooper Group, Staysafe, Fredon SecuThe strategy review that was initiated in 2018 was concluded rity and Techco Security. in 2019 and we started to implement the transformation proThe Group’s Chief Information Officer with team are leading the grams to build an even stronger company tomorrow. To reach the development of Securitas’ global digitization and IS/IT transformawanted position, to become the Intelligent Protective Services tion and are responsible for large scale global IT/business projects. Partner for the clients, three main strategic focus areas were The Group continue to execute on the two major transformation identified: Client engagement, Protective services offering with programs, that were announced last year, that will bring increased intelligent services, and Efficiency. digitalization, efficiency and a platform for innovation. The impleAs part of the strategy review, we also formulated our Purmentation of these two programs is progressing according to plan pose, We help make your world a safer place, and started the proSecuritas Annual and Sustainability Report 2019 63 R E P O R T O F T H E B O A R D O F D I R EC T O R S cess to become a purpose led organization. (1 196) and mainly relates to license fees and other income from Securitas started to execute on two major transformation prosubsidiaries. grams to modernize and digitize the operations. The first proFinancial income and expenses amounted to MSEK 2 209 gram will radically modernize our global IS/IT foundation (2 269). Income before taxes amounted to MSEK 2 553 (2 558). through­out the Group. This investment into our global IS/IT founIncome before taxes includes dividends from subsidiaries of dation and the creation of a global IS/IT organization will make us MSEK 1 980 (1 593), interest income of MSEK 612 (659), intemore efficient. With the second program we are driving a busirest expense of MSEK -443 (-418) and other financial income ness transformation of our North American operations with the and expenses, net, of MSEK 60 (435). For further information, objective to operate in a more effective way, with expected posirefer to note 48. tive impact on our client offering, competitiveness and bottom Net income was MSEK 2 364 (2 269). line. The programs have been initiated and are expected to be Cash flow for the year amounted to MSEK 270 (-617). completed over the next few years. The Parent Company’s non-current assets amounted to Related to these two programs, MSEK -209 (-187) was MSEK 46 157 (43 506) and mainly comprise shares in subsidiarecognized as items affecting comparability in the income stateries of MSEK 43 911 (41 332). Current assets amounted to ment in 2019. An additional amount of approximately MSEK MSEK 5 944 (7 329) of which liquid funds amounted to -450 will be recognized as items affecting comparability over the MSEK 1 596 (1 326). course of the next two years. Such costs relate primarily to the Shareholders’ equity amounted to MSEK 29 276 (28 499). A impairment of assets, organizational restructuring charges and dividend of MSEK 1 606 (1 460) was paid to the shareholders in other non-recurring items. Furthermore, an estimated amount of May 2019. in total MSEK 550 related to these two programs will be capitaliThe Parent Company’s liabilities and untaxed reserves amounzed and amortized over the life time of the assets. ted to MSEK 22 825 (22 336) and mainly consist of interestWhen fully implemented, we expect to have a more technobearing debt. logy-enabled platform across the Group, creating the capability to For further information, refer to the Parent Company’s financial develop and launch digital services at scale for our clients, as well statements and the accompanying notes and comments. as a more cost-efficient base. Upon expected completion in 2022, the investment into our global IS/IT foundation is expected Proposed guidelines for remuneration to reduce our current IT costs across the Group by MSEK 300. to senior management in Securitas for 2020 With higher efficiency and productivity, we will free up resources Scope to invest in speeding up the development and delivery of intelliThe Board of Directors proposes that the Annual General Meegent services and to improve margins. The business transformating on May 7, 2020 adopts the following guidelines for remunetion program in North America will, everything else equal, support ration to the individuals who are included in the Group Manageour North American operating margin up to 0.5 percentage ment of Securitas (the “senior management employees”). points, with a first positive impact starting in 2021 and gradually The guidelines shall apply to agreements entered into after increasing during 2022. the Annual General Meeting 2020, and to changes made in exisAccelerating the modernization of our IS/IT capability and ting agreements after the Annual General Meeting 2020. These digitization of our operations will enable us to offer greatly improguidelines do not apply to any remuneration decided or approved ved data-driven and intelligence-based services. In a future by the general meeting. where scale and data availability are critical, we will drive the next big shift in the security services industry to benefit our clients Promotion of Securitas’ business strategy, and society as a whole. This will also enable us to grow faster long-term interests and sustainability etc. than the market and deliver profitable growth. In short, Securitas business strategy is to offer protective services We are analyzing the optimal way to organize the European that integrate all areas of Securitas’ competence. Together with business supported by modern tools and systems to build more the customers, Securitas develop optimal and cost-efficient soluefficient operations and generate higher value. This analysis will tions that are suited for the customers’ needs. This brings added be completed in the near term. value to the customers and results in stronger, more long-term A number of leadership changes were implemented during customer relationships and improved profitability. In order to att2019 and as we enter 2020 we have a strong Group Manageract and keep competent senior management employees, Securiment team that will lead the company during the next phase of tas shall offer a competitive total remuneration that is in line with development of the company. Three new global functional units the market conditions on the relevant market for each senior have been created for guarding, electronic security and global management employee. Thereby, the ambition is to ensure that clients to enhance specialization in these areas. Securitas has the best team in the security services industry, 2019 was the year when we started the execution of a multiwhich is expected to contribute to Securitas’ business strategy year journey of strategic transformation. We are now accelerating and long-term interests, including its sustainability. More informathe transformation to build the strongest company and client tion on Securitas’ business strategy is available on Securitas’ offering for the future. website securitas.com, section Our offering – Strategy. Securitas has implemented share-related incentive plans. Parent Company operations Every year since 2010, the Annual General Meeting has resolved The Group’s Parent Company, Securitas AB, is not involved in any on share related incentive schemes including approximately operating activities. Securitas AB consists of Group Management 2 600 employees within the Group. The outcome of these incenand support functions for the Group. tive schemes relates to how the criteria for awarding variable The Parent Company’s income amounted to MSEK 1 449 cash remuneration are satisfied and thus they are distinctly linked 64 Securitas Annual and Sustainability Report 2019 R E P O R T O F T H E B O A R D O F D I R EC T O R S to Securitas’ business strategy, long-term interests and sustainaeach senior management employee’s area of responsibility bility. Furthermore, the Annual General Meeting 2019 resolved (group or division). Furthermore, the performance-based targets on a long-term incentive program including the CEO, other memare intended to contribute to Securitas’ business strategy and bers of the Group Management and certain other key employees long-term interests, including its sustainability, by, among other (“LTI 2019/2021”) which is intended to work as an alternative things, promoting the senior management employee’s long-term incentive solution to the aforementioned incentive scheme and development within Securitas and reconciling the shareholders’ includes approximately up to 80 employees within Securitas. The interests with the employee’s interests. outcome of LTI 2019/2021 is based on the annual development The Remuneration Committee shall, for the Board of Direcof Securitas’ earnings per share. LTI 2019/2021 is conditional tors, prepare, monitor and evaluate matters regarding variable upon the participant’s own investment and holding periods of cash remuneration to the senior management. Ahead of each several years. The share-related incentive plans have been resolmeasurement period for the criteria for awarding variable cash ved by the general meeting and are therefore excluded from remuneration, which can be one or several years, the Board of these guidelines. The share-related incentive plans proposed by Directors shall, based on the work of the Remuneration Committhe Board of Directors and submitted to the Annual General Meetee, establish which criteria that are deemed to be relevant for ting 2020 for approval are excluded for the same reason. the upcoming measurement period. After a measurement period More information on Securitas’ incentive plans is available on has ended, it shall be determined to which extent the criteria Securitas’ website securitas.com, section Corporate Governance have been satisfied. Evaluations regarding fulfilment of financial – Remuneration to Senior Management. targets shall be based on established financial information for the relevant period. Types of remuneration Variable cash remuneration can be paid after the measureThe total remuneration to senior management shall consist of a ment period has ended or be subject to deferred payment. If payfixed basic salary, variable cash remuneration, pension benefits ment of variable cash remuneration has been effected on and other benefits. Additionally, the general meeting may – irregrounds later proven to be obviously inaccurate, Securitas shall, spective of these guidelines – resolve on, among other things, to the extent legally possible, have the possibility to reclaim such share-related or share price-related remuneration. paid remuneration. The fixed basic salary shall be competitive and reflect each senior management employee’s responsibility and performance. Termination of employment The variable cash remuneration shall amount to a maximum of At dismissal, the notice period for senior management employ85 percent of the fixed basic salary for the President and CEO ees shall not exceed twelve months, with a right to redundancy and a maximum of 60-200 percent of the fixed basic salary for payment equivalent to a maximum of 100 percent of the fixed other senior management employees. basic salary for a period not exceeding twelve months after the The senior management employees shall be subject to defiend of the notice period. At resignation by a senior management ned contribution pension plans for which insurance premiums are employee, the notice period shall amount to a maximum of six transferred from the individual’s total cash remuneration and paid months without a right to redundancy payment. by the company during the term of employment. In exceptional Additionally, remuneration may be paid for non-compete and cases, the value of such insurance premiums can instead be paid non-solicitation undertakings in accordance with mandatory rules as part of the cash remuneration to a senior management or established local practice. The remuneration shall be based on employee. Variable cash remuneration shall qualify for pension the fixed cash salary at the time of termination of employment benefits to the extent required by mandatory collective agreeand be paid during the time the non-compete or the non-solicitament provisions. Insurance premiums may amount to not more tion undertaking applies, however not for more than 24 months than 35 percent of the fixed basic salary. following termination of employment. Other benefits, such as company car, life insurance, special health insurance or occupational health service shall be provided Salary and employment conditions for employees to the extent this is considered customary for senior manageIn the preparation of the Board of Directors’ proposal for these ment employees holding equivalent positions on the labor guidelines, salary and employment conditions for employees of market where the senior management employee is active. Premithe company have been taken into account by including informaums and other costs relating to such benefits may amount to not tion on the employees’ total income, the components of the more than 15 percent of the fixed basic salary. remuneration and increase and growth rate over time, in the For employments governed by rules other than Swedish, penRemuneration Committee’s and the Board of Directors’ basis of sion benefits and other benefits may be duly adjusted for complidecision when evaluating whether the guidelines and the limitaance with mandatory rules or established local practice, taking tions set out herein are reasonable. into account, to the extent possible, the overall purpose of these guidelines. The decision-making process to determine, review and implement the guidelines Criteria for awarding variable cash remuneration The Remuneration Committee’s tasks include preparing the Variable cash remuneration shall be awarded based on the outBoard of Directors’ decision to propose guidelines for remuneracome of clearly measurable performance-based targets that are tion to the senior management. The Board of Directors shall preset as close to the local business as possible and aim for longpare a proposal for new guidelines at least every fourth year and term profitability of Securitas. The performance-based targets submit it to the general meeting. The guidelines shall be in force may for example relate to EBITA, EPS and/or cash flow within until new guidelines are adopted by the general meeting. The Securitas Annual and Sustainability Report 2019 65 R E P O R T O F T H E B O A R D O F D I R EC T O R S Remuneration Committee shall also monitor and evaluate proRetained earnings in the Parent Company available for grams for variable remuneration for the senior management, the distribution: application of the guidelines for remuneration to senior manageSEK ment as well as the current remuneration structures and compenHedging reserve 62 929 344 sation levels in Securitas. The members of the Remuneration Retained earnings 19 112 119 658 Committee are independent of the company and its senior manaNet income for the year1 2 363 769 683 gement. The CEO and other members of the senior management Total 21 538 818 685 do not participate in the Board of Directors’ processing of and 1 Includes Group contributions to subsidiaries of SEK 212 383 807. resolutions regarding remuneration-related matters in so far as they are affected by such matters. The Board of Directors proposed that the earnings are allocated as follows: Deviation from the guidelines The Board may temporarily resolve to deviate from the guideliSEK nes, in whole or in part, if in a specific case there is special cause a dividend to the shareholders of SEK 4.80 per share 1 751 682 706 for the deviation and a deviation is necessary to serve Securitas retained earnings to be carried forward 19 787 135 979 long-term interests, including its sustainability, or to ensure SecuTotal 21 538 818 685 ritas financial viability. As set out above, the Remuneration Committee’s tasks include preparing the Board of Directors’ resolutions in remuneration-related matters. This includes any resoluThe dividend amount and retained earnings to be carried forward tions to deviate from the guidelines. are calculated on the number of shares outstanding as per February 6, 2020. No dividend is payable on Securitas AB’s holding of Transitional provisions applicable treasury shares, the exact number of which is determined on the for the Annual General Meeting 2020 record date for payment of dividend. Securitas AB held 125 000 The cost of the company for 2020 in terms of its obligations to treasury shares as per February 6, 2020. pay variable cash remuneration to the senior management is estimated to not exceed a total of MSEK 108 at maximum outcome Proposal on record date for dividend (not including potential costs for the LTI 2020/2022). InformaAs record date for dividend, the Board has proposed May 11, tion on previously decided remuneration which has not yet been 2020. If the Annual General Meeting so resolves, the dividend is paid can be found in note 9 of the Annual Report for 2019. expected to be distributed by Euroclear Sweden AB starting May 14, 2020. Proposed allocation of earnings The statements of income and the balance sheets of the Parent Proposed authorization to acquire Company and the Group are subject to adoption by the Annual the Company’s own shares General Meeting on May 7, 2020. The Board has further proposed that the 2020 Annual General Meeting should authorize the Board to, on one or several occasions during the time up to the Annual General Meeting in 2021, 66 Securitas Annual and Sustainability Report 2019 R E P O R T O F T H E B O A R D O F D I R EC T O R S decide on the acquisition of the Company’s own shares. The prozation to acquire the Company’s own shares. posal entails that the Board may decide on acquisitions so that In view of the proposed dividend and authorization to acquire the maximum number of shares held by the Company at each the Company’s own shares, the Board has considered the point in time does not exceed ten (10) percent of all shares in the Company’s and the Group’s consolidation requirements and liquiCompany. dity through a comprehensive assessment of the financial position of the Company and the Group, as well as the possibilities of The Board’s statements on the proposed the Company and the Group to discharge its obligations in the dividend and the proposed authorization long term. The proposed dividend, the Group contributions to to acquire the Company’s own shares subsidiaries and the proposed authorization to acquire the The Board has issued the following statements regarding propoCompany’s own shares does not jeopardize the Company’s ability sed allocation of earnings and proposed authorization to acquire to make the investments that have been deemed necessary. The the Company’s own shares pursuant to Chapter 18, Section 4 Company’s financial position does not give rise to any other and Chapter 19, Section 22 of the Swedish Companies Act. assessment than that the Company can continue its operations The Company’s unappropriated earnings as per December 31, and that the Company is expected to comply with its obligations 2019 amount to SEK 19 175 049 002. The net income for the in a short as well as long term perspective. In addition to the year amounts to SEK 2 363 769 683 of which SEK 212 383 807 assessment of the Company’s consolidation requirements and is related to Group contributions to subsidiaries and liquidity, the Board has also taken into consideration all other SEK -4 970 195 is the result of financial instruments being known circumstances that may impact the Company’s financial valued pursuant to Chapter 4, Section 14a of the Swedish Annual position. Accounts Act. With reference to the above, the Board makes the assessment The Company’s equity would have been SEK 58 063 526 that the proposed dividend, the Group contributions and the prolower as per December 31, 2019, if financial instruments, having posed authorization to acquire the Company’s own shares are been valued at fair value pursuant to Chapter 4, Section 14a of justifiable considering the requirements that the nature, scope the Swedish Annual Accounts Act, had instead been valued at and risks of the operations pose on the size of the Company’s the lower of cost or market. and the Group’s equity as well as the Company’s and the Group’s At the disposal of the Annual General Meeting is thereby a consolidation requirements, liquidity and position in general. total amount of SEK 21 538 818 685 in unappropriated earnings As regards the Company’s and the Group’s result and position before the decision on dividend for 2019. in general, refer to the statements of income, statements of comProvided that the 2020 Annual General Meeting resolves to prehensive income, balance sheets and statements of cash flow allocate the earnings in accordance with the Board’s proposal, as well as notes and comments. The Board will continue to SEK 19 787 135 979 will be carried forward. Hence, there will assess further the financial position and liquidity up to the decibe full coverage for the Company’s restricted equity after distribusion on the Annual General Meeting. tion of the proposed dividend, Group contributions and authoriSecuritas Annual and Sustainability Report 2019 67 CO N SO L I DATE D F I NA NC IA L STAT EMENTS Consolidated statement of income MSEK Note 2019 2018 Sales 109 560 99 707 Sales, acquired business 1 339 1 760 Total sales 6, 10 110 899 101 467 Production expenses 11, 12, 13 -91 588 -83 570 Gross income 19 311 17 897 Selling and administrative expenses 11, 12, 13 -13 637 -12 654 Other operating income 6 34 30 Share in income of associated companies 22 30 31 Amortization of acquisition related intangible assets 18 -271 -260 Acquisition related costs 11 -62 -120 Items affecting comparability 11 -209 -455 Operating income 11 5 196 4 469 Financial income 14 67 85 Financial expenses 14 -645 -526 Income before taxes 4 618 4 028 Taxes 15 -1 256 -1 007 Net income for the year 3 362 3 021 Whereof attributable to: Equity holders of the Parent Company 3 357 3 016 Non-controlling interests 5 5 Average number of shares before and after dilution 364 993 486 365 058 897 Earnings per share before and after dilution (SEK) 3 9.20 8.26 Earnings per share before and after dilution and before items affecting comparability (SEK) 3 9.61 9.17 Consolidated statement of comprehensive income MSEK Note 2019 2018 Net income for the year 3 362 3 021 Other comprehensive income Items that will not be reclassified to the statement of income Remeasurements of defined benefit pension plans net of tax 32 31 -72 Total items that will not be reclassified to the statement of income 31 -72 Items that subsequently may be reclassified to the statement of income Remeasurement for hyperinflation net of tax 40 79 314 Cash flow hedges net of tax 7 36 63 Cost of hedging net of tax 7 12 -44 Net investment hedges net of tax -346 -381 Other comprehensive income from associated companies, translation differences 14 19 Translation differences 405 668 Total items that subsequently may be reclassified to the statement of income 200 639 Other comprehensive income 15 231 567 Total comprehensive income for the year 3 593 3 588 Whereof attributable to: Equity holders of the Parent Company 3 587 3 583 Non-controlling interests 6 5 68 Securitas Annual and Sustainability Report 2019 CO N S O L I D AT E D F I N A N C I A L S TAT E M E N T S Securitas’ financial model – consolidated statement of income Supplementary information MSEK 2019 2018 Sales 109 560 99 707 Sales, acquired business 1 339 1 760 Total sales 110 899 101 467 Organic sales growth, % 4 6 Production expenses -91 588 -83 570 Gross income 19 311 17 897 Gross margin, % 17.4 17.6 Expenses for branch offices -5 621 -5 428 Other selling and administrative expenses -8 016 -7 226 Total expenses -13 637 -12 654 Other operating income 34 30 Share in income of associated companies 30 31 Operating income before amortization 5 738 5 304 Operating margin, % 5.2 5.2 Amortization of acquisition related intangible assets -271 -260 Acquisition related costs -62 -120 Items affecting comparability -209 -455 Operating income after amortization 5 196 4 469 Financial income and expenses -578 -441 Income before taxes 4 618 4 028 Net margin, % 4.2 4.0 Taxes -1 256 -1 007 Net income for the year 3 362 3 021 Operating items. Net debt-related items. Goodwill, taxes and non-operating items. Items related to shareholders’ equity. Securitas’ financial model is described on pages 54–55. Securitas Annual and Sustainability Report 2019 69 CO N SO L I DATE D F I NA NC IA L STAT EMENTS Consolidated statement of cash flow MSEK Note 2019 2018 Operations Operating income 5 196 4 469 Adjustment for effect on cash flow from items affecting comparability 11 -94 338 Adjustment for effect on cash flow from acquisition related costs 11 -18 23 Reversal of depreciation 18, 19, 20, 21 2 961 1 953 Financial items received 42 59 Financial items paid -633 -491 Current taxes paid -1 191 -856 Change in accounts receivable -239 -1 575 Change in other operating capital employed -277 -62 Cash flow from operations 5 747 3 858 Investing activities Investments in non-current tangible and intangible assets -2 040 -2 188 Acquisitions and divestitures of subsidiaries 16 -494 -1 658 Cash flow from investing activities -2 534 -3 846 Financing activities Dividend paid to shareholders of the Parent Company -1 606 -1 460 Proceeds from bond loans 31, 34 1 445 3 004 Redemption of bond loans 31, 34 -792 -3 480 Proceeds from commercial paper 5 098 2 500 Redemption of commercial paper -5 300 -1 550 Change in other interest-bearing net debt excluding liquid funds 20 -1 366 610 Cash flow from financing activities 7 -2 521 -376 Cash flow for the year 692 -364 Liquid funds at beginning of year 3 229 3 611 Translation differences on liquid funds 27 -18 Liquid funds at year-end 7, 29 3 948 3 229 70 Securitas Annual and Sustainability Report 2019 CO N S O L I D AT E D F I N A N C I A L S TAT E M E N T S Securitas’ financial model – consolidated statement of cash flow Supplementary information MSEK 2019 2018 Operating income before amortization 5 738 5 304 Investments in non-current tangible and intangible assets -3 010 -2 188 Reversal of depreciation 2 690 1 693 Net investments in non-current tangible and intangible assets -320 -495 Change in accounts receivable -239 -1 575 Change in other operating capital employed -277 -62 Cash flow from operating activities 4 902 3 172 Cash flow from operating activities as % of operating income before amortization 85 60 Financial income and expenses paid -443 -432 Current taxes paid -1 191 -856 Free cash flow 3 268 1 884 Free cash flow as % of adjusted income 83 48 Acquisitions and divestitures of subsidiaries -494 -1 658 Acquisition related costs paid -80 -97 Cash flow from items affecting comparability -303 -117 Cash flow from financing activities -1 699 -376 Cash flow for the year 692 -364 Operating items. Net debt-related items. Goodwill, taxes and non-operating items. Securitas’ financial model is described on pages 54–55. Securitas Annual and Sustainability Report 2019 71 CO N SO L I DATE D F I NA NC IA L STAT EMENTS Consolidated balance sheet MSEK Note 2019 2018 ASSETS Non-current assets Goodwill 17 22 157 21 061 Acquisition related intangible assets 18 1 563 1 458 Other intangible assets 6, 19 1 813 1 450 Right-of-use assets1 20 3 489 222 Buildings and land1 21 254 297 Machinery and equipment1 21 3 292 3 235 Shares in associated companies 22 320 452 Deferred tax assets 15 918 961 Interest-bearing financial non-current assets 23 437 499 Other long-term receivables 24 881 783 Total non-current assets 35 124 30 418 Current assets Inventories 25 508 460 Accounts receivable 26 16 120 15 604 Current tax assets 15 922 581 Other current receivables 27 5 434 5 056 Other interest-bearing current assets 28 134 121 Liquid funds 29 3 948 3 229 Total current assets 27 066 25 051 TOTAL ASSETS 62 190 55 469 SHAREHOLDERS’ EQUITY AND LIABILITIES Shareholders’ equity Share capital 365 365 Other capital contributed 7 363 7 363 Other reserves -206 -326 Retained earnings 12 047 10 230 Shareholders’ equity attributable to equity holders of the Parent Company 19 569 17 632 Non-controlling interests 30 25 Total shareholders’ equity 30 19 599 17 657 Long-term liabilities Long-term lease liabilities 31 2 610 116 Other long-term loan liabilities 31 17 216 15 858 Other long-term liabilities 31 361 336 Provisions for pensions and similar commitments 32 1 141 1 116 Deferred tax liabilities 15 624 571 Other long-term provisions 33 719 840 Total long-term liabilities 22 671 18 837 Current liabilities Current lease liabilities 34 944 106 Other short-term loan liabilities 34 1 290 2 282 Accounts payable 2 001 1 833 Current tax liabilities 15 1 621 1 362 Other current liabilities 35 12 936 12 028 Short-term provisions 36 1 128 1 364 Total current liabilities 19 920 18 975 TOTAL SHAREHOLDERS’ EQUITY AND LIABILITIES 62 190 55 469 1 Finance leases according to IAS 17 were in 2018 included in buildings and land as well as in machinery and equipment. In this Annual Report, they have been reclassified to right-of-use assets. For further information regarding right-of-use assets, refer to note 20 and 41. 72 Securitas Annual and Sustainability Report 2019 CO N S O L I D AT E D F I N A N C I A L S TAT E M E N T S Securitas’ financial model – consolidated capital employed and financing Supplementary information MSEK 2019 2018 Operating capital employed Other intangible assets 1 813 1 450 Right-of-use assets1 3 489 222 Buildings and land1 254 297 Machinery and equipment1 3 292 3 235 Deferred tax assets 918 961 Other long-term receivables 881 783 Inventories 508 460 Accounts receivable 16 120 15 604 Current tax assets 922 581 Other current receivables 5 434 5 056 Total assets 33 631 28 649 Other long-term liabilities 361 336 Provisions for pensions and similar commitments 1 141 1 116 Deferred tax liabilities 624 571 Other long-term provisions 719 840 Accounts payable 2 001 1 833 Current tax liabilities 1 621 1 362 Other current liabilities 12 936 12 028 Short-term provisions 1 128 1 364 Total liabilities 20 531 19 450 Total operating capital employed 13 100 9 199 Goodwill 22 157 21 061 Acquisition related intangible assets 1 563 1 458 Shares in associated companies 320 452 Total capital employed 37 140 32 170 Operating capital employed as % of sales 12 9 Return on capital employed, % 15 15 Net debt Interest-bearing financial non-current assets 437 499 Other interest-bearing current assets 134 121 Liquid funds 3 948 3 229 Total interest-bearing assets 4 519 3 849 Long-term lease liabilities 2 610 116 Other long-term loan liabilities 17 216 15 858 Current lease liabilities 944 106 Other short-term loan liabilities 1 290 2 282 Total interest-bearing liabilities 22 060 18 362 Total net debt 17 541 14 513 Net debt equity ratio, multiple 0.89 0.82 Shareholders’ equity Share capital 365 365 Other capital contributed 7 363 7 363 Other reserves -206 -326 Retained earnings 12 047 10 230 Non-controlling interests 30 25 Total shareholders’ equity 19 599 17 657 Total financing 37 140 32 170 Operating items. Net debt-related items. Goodwill and non-operating items. Items related to shareholders’ equity. Securitas’ financial model is described on pages 54–55. 1 Finance leases according to IAS 17 was in 2018 included in buildings and land as well as in machinery and equipment. For further information regarding right-of-use assets, refer to note 20 and 41. Securitas Annual and Sustainability Report 2019 73 CO N SO L I DATE D F I NA NC IA L STAT EMENTS Consolidated statement of changes in shareholders’ equity Shareholders’ equity attributable to equity holders of the Parent Company1 Total Other NonshareShare capital Hedging Translation Retained controlling holders’ MSEK capital contributed reserve reserve earnings Total interests1 equity Opening balance 2018 365 7 363 -4 -647 8 441 15 518 21 15 539 Net income for the year – – – – 3 016 3 016 5 3 021 Other comprehensive income Items that will not be reclassified to the statement of income Remeasurements of defined benefit pension plans net of tax – – – – -72 -72 – -72 Total items that will not be reclassified to the statement of income – – – – -72 -72 – -72 Items that subsequently may be reclassified to the statement of income Remeasurement for hyperinflation net of tax 2 – – – – 314 314 – 314 Cash flow hedges net of tax 3 – – 63 – – 63 – 63 Cost of hedging net of tax – – -44 – – -44 – -44 Net investment hedges net of tax4 – – – -381 – -381 – -381 Other comprehensive income from associated companies, translation differences – – – 19 – 19 – 19 Translation differences – – – 668 – 668 0 668 Total items that subsequently may be reclassified to the statement of income – – 19 306 314 639 0 639 Other comprehensive income – – 19 306 242 567 0 567 Total comprehensive income for the year – – 19 306 3 258 3 583 5 3 588 Transactions with non-controlling interests1 – – – – -2 -2 -1 -3 Share-based incentive schemes1 – – – – -7 -7 – -7 Dividend paid to shareholders of the Parent Company – – – – -1 460 -1 460 – -1 460 Closing balance 2018 365 7 363 15 -341 10 230 17 632 25 17 657 Opening balance 2019 365 7 363 15 -341 10 230 17 632 25 17 657 Net income for the year – – – – 3 357 3 357 5 3 362 Other comprehensive income Items that will not be reclassified to the statement of income Remeasurements of defined benefit pension plans net of tax – – – – 31 31 – 31 Total items that will not be reclassified to the statement of income – – – – 31 31 – 31 Items that subsequently may be reclassified to the statement of income Remeasurement for hyperinflation net of tax 2 – – – – 79 79 – 79 Cash flow hedges net of tax 3 – – 36 – – 36 – 36 Cost of hedging net of tax – – 12 – – 12 – 12 Net investment hedges net of tax4 – – – -346 – -346 – -346 Other comprehensive income from associated companies, translation differences – – – 14 – 14 – 14 Translation differences – – – 404 – 404 1 405 Total items that subsequently may be reclassified to the statement of income – – 48 72 79 199 1 200 Other comprehensive income – – 48 72 110 230 1 231 Total comprehensive income for the year – – 48 72 3 467 3 587 6 3 593 Transactions with non-controlling interests1 – – – – – – -1 -1 Share-based incentive schemes1 – – – – -44 -44 – -44 Dividend paid to shareholders of the Parent Company – – – – -1 606 -1 606 – -1 606 Closing balance 2019 365 7 363 63 -269 12 047 19 569 30 19 599 1 Further information is provided in note 30. 2 Further information is provided in note 40. 3 Specification can be found in note 7, in the table revaluation of financial instruments, as well as in note 15. 4 For tax amount see note 15. 74 Securitas Annual and Sustainability Report 2019 N O T E S A N D CO M M E N T S T O T H E CO N S O L I D AT E D F I N A N C I A L S TAT E M E N T S Notes Note 1 2 3 4 NOTE 1 General corporate information Adoption and impact of new and revised IFRS for 2019 5 IFRS 16 Leases came into force on January 1, 2019 and has been 6 Operations adopted by Securitas as of that date. Securitas has adopted IFRS 16 by 7 Securitas serves a wide range of clients of all sizes in a variety of industries recognizing the cumulative effect of the application on January 1, 2019 8 and client segments. Security solutions based on client-specific needs are without restatement of the comparative periods. For further information 9 built through different combinations of on-site, mobile and remote guardregarding Securitas adoption and impact of IFRS 16, refer to the section 10 ing, electronic security, fire and safety and corporate risk management. Leases below as well as to note 41. 11 Securitas operates in North America, Europe, Latin America, Africa, the Amendments to IAS 19 Employee Benefits came into force on January 12 Middle East, Asia and Australia and employs 370 000 employees in 56 1, 2019 and has been adopted by Securitas as of that date. The amend13 countries. ments clarify the accounting for defined benefit plan amendments, 14 curtailments and settlements. They are not assessed to have any material 15 Information regarding Securitas AB impact on the Group’s financial statements. 16 Securitas AB, corporate registration number 556302-7241, is a Swedish None of the other published standards and interpretations that are mandatory for the Group’s financial year 2019 have had any impact on the 17 public company and has its registered office in Stockholm, Sweden. Group’s financial statements. 18 The address of the head office is: 19 Securitas AB Introduction and effect of new and revised 20 Lindhagensplan 70 IFRS that are effective as from 2020 21 SE-102 28 Stockholm Securitas has chosen to early-adopt the amendments to IFRS 9 Financial 22 Sweden instruments related to hedge accounting, which came into effect as of 23 Securitas AB is listed on Nasdaq Stockholm on the Large Cap List. The January 1, 2020. The purpose of the amendments is to reduce the effects 24 Securitas share is included in for example the OMX Stockholm Price Index on hedge accounting following the IBOR-reform and they should be 25 and the OMX Stockholm 30 Index. Securitas has been listed on the stock applied to all hedge relationships that are directly affected by the IBOR26 exchange since 1991. reform. The amendments are assessed to have no impact on the Group’s 27 financial statements. 28 Information regarding the Annual Report None of the other published standards and interpretations that are 29 and the consolidated financial statements mandatory for the Group’s financial year 2020 are assessed to have any impact on the Group’s financial statements. 30 This Annual Report including the consolidated financial statements was 31 signed by the Board of Directors and the President and CEO of Securitas AB and also approved for publication on March 18, 2020. Introduction and effect of new and revised IFRS 32 The statements of income and balance sheets for the Parent Company that are effective as from 2021 and onwards 33 and the consolidated financial statements for the Group included in the The effect on the Group’s financial statements from standards and inter34 Annual Report are subject to adoption by the Annual General Meeting on pretations that are mandatory for the Group’s financial year 2021 or later 35 May 7, 2020. remain to be assessed. 36 37 The acquisition method (IFRS 3) NOTE 11, 16, 17 AND 18 38 NOTE 2 Accounting principles The acquisition method is used to account for the acquisitions of sub39 sidiaries and operations by the Group. All payments to acquire a busi40 Basis of preparation ness are recorded at fair value at the acquisition date, with contingent 41 Securitas’ consolidated financial statements are prepared in accordance considerations and acquisition related option liabilities classified as debt 42 with International Financial Reporting Standards (IFRS) as endorsed subsequently remeasured through the statement of income. The Group 43 by the European Union (EU), the Swedish Annual Accounts Act and the chooses on an acquisition-by-acquisition basis to measure the noncontrolling interest in the acquiree at fair value or at the non-controlling 44 Swedish Financial Reporting Board’s standard RFR 1 Supplementary interest’s proportionate share of the acquiree’s net assets. All acquisition 45 Accounting Rules for Groups. The consolidated financial statements have been prepared in accordance with the historical cost convention related transaction costs are expensed. These costs are in the Group 46 method except where a fair value measurement is required according to accounted for on a line in the statement of income named acquisition 47 IFRS. Examples of assets and liabilities measured at fair value are financial related costs. Costs accounted for on this line are transaction costs, 48 assets or financial liabilities (including derivatives) at fair value through revaluation (including discounting) of contingent considerations and 49 profit or loss and plan assets related to defined benefit pension plans. acquisition related option liabilities, revaluation to fair value of previously 50 acquired shares in step acquisitions and acquisition related restructuring 51 Estimates and judgments NOTE 4 and integration costs. 52 The preparation of financial reports requires the Board of Directors and The excess of the cost of acquisition over the fair value of the Group’s 53 Group Management to make estimates and judgments. Estimates and share of the identifiable net assets acquired is recorded as goodwill. If the 54 judgments will impact both the statement of income and the balance sheet cost of acquisition is less than the fair value of the net assets of the sub55 as well as disclosures such as contingent liabilities. Actual outcome may sidiary acquired, the difference is recognized directly in the consolidated statement of income. 56 differ from these judgments under different assumptions or conditions. 57 Scope of the consolidated financial 58 statements (IFRS 10 and IFRS 12) NOTE 16 AND 52 59 The consolidated financial statements relate to the Parent Company 60 Securitas AB and all subsidiaries. Subsidiaries are all companies where 61 Securitas Annual and Sustainability Report 2019 75 N OTE S AN D COM M ENTS TO T HE CONS OLIDAT ED FINANCI AL STATEMENTS the Group has control, which is the case where the Group is exposed, or by the primary economic environment in which the company operates. has rights, to variable returns from its involvement with the company and The functional currency of the Parent Company and the presentation has the ability to affect those returns through its power over the company. currency of the Group, that is the currency in which the financial statements The consolidated financial statements include companies acquired are presented, is Swedish kronor (SEK). with effect from the date that the Group obtains control. Companies When translating the financial statements of each foreign subsidiary, divested are excluded with effect from the date that the Group ceases each month’s statement of income is translated using the exchange rate to have control. prevailing on the last day of the month. This means that income for each Pricing of deliveries among Group companies is based on normal month is not affected by foreign exchange fluctuations during subsequent business principles. Intercompany transactions, balances and unrealized periods. Balance sheets are translated using exchange rates prevailing at gains and losses between Group companies are eliminated. each balance sheet date. Translation differences arising in the conversion of balance sheets are posted directly to other comprehensive income and Non-controlling interests (IFRS 3 and IFRS 10) NOTE 30 thus do not affect net income for the year. The translation difference arising The Group treats transactions with non-controlling interests as transacbecause statements of income are translated using average rates, while tions with equity owners of the Group. For acquisitions from non-controlling balance sheets are translated using exchange rates prevailing at each interests, the difference between any consideration paid and the relevant balance sheet date, is posted directly to other comprehensive income. share acquired of the carrying value of net assets of the subsidiary is Where loans have been raised to reduce the Group’s foreign exchange / recorded in equity on the line transactions with non-controlling interests translation exposure in foreign net assets, and qualify for the hedge in the consolidated statement of changes in shareholders’ equity. Gains or accounting criteria, exchange rate differences on such loans are recognized losses on disposals to non-controlling interests are also recorded in equity together with the exchange rate differences arising from the translation of on the same line. foreign net assets in other comprehensive income. The principle to treat transactions with non-controlling interests as The accumulated translation differences are accounted for in translatransactions with equity owners of the Group is also applied to the valution reserve in equity. When a foreign operation or part thereof is sold, such ation of options relating to non-controlling interests. This means that at exchange differences are recognized in the statement of income as part of both initial recognition and for any subsequent revaluation, according to the gain or loss on sale. the economic entity model, the transactions are recognized in equity as Goodwill and fair value adjustments arising on the acquisition of a transactions with non-controlling interests. foreign entity are treated as assets and liabilities of the foreign entity and translated using exchange rates prevailing at each balance sheet date. Investments in associates (IAS 28) NOTE 22 AND 53 Associates are entities in which Securitas can exert a significant influence, Remeasurement for hyperinflation (IAS 29) NOTE 40 generally accompanying a shareholding of between 20 percent and The Group´s subsidiaries in countries that according to IAS 29 are classi50 percent of the voting rights. The equity method is used to account for fied as hyperinflationary economies are accounted for in the Group´s these shareholdings. All payments to acquire a business are recorded financial statements after remeasurement for hyperinflation. IAS 29 has at fair value on the acquisition date, with contingent considerations and been adopted for Securitas’ operations in Argentina as from July 1, 2018. acquisition related option liabilities classified as debt subsequently This includes the subsidiaries with functional currency in ARS as well as remeasured through the statement of income. All acquisition related consolidated goodwill that is consolidated into SEK from ARS. transaction costs are expensed. The balance sheet items not already expressed in terms of the Share in income of associates is recognized in the consolidated statemeasuring unit current as of July 1, 2018 have been remeasured by ment of income. Depending on the purpose of the investment, share in applying a general price index. Due to the lack of one index covering the income of associates is included either in operating income, if it is related whole period for which remeasurement is needed, Securitas has used to associates that have been acquired to contribute to the operations, or the consumer price index, National congress price index or the Internal in income before taxes as a separate line within net financial items, if it is Price Index related with Commercial/Production of Products. Securitas related to associates that have been acquired as part of the financing of believes that this gives a reasonable level of accuracy. The base period the Group. In both cases the share in income of associates are net of for the index is January 2003. The financial statements subject to remeatax. All associates in the Group are currently classified as operational surement are based on the historical cost approach. associates. The initial remeasurement of all relevant balance sheet items has been In the consolidated balance sheet, investments in associates are stated recognized as part of other comprehensive income on the line Remeaat cost including the cost of the acquisition that is attributed to goodwill surement for hyperinflation net of tax. Where relevant, deferred tax has and other acquisition related intangible assets, adjusted for dividends and been considered. Subsequent measurement of the consolidated goodwill the share of income after the acquisition date. Investments in associates balance as of December 31, 2018 is also recognized as part of other comare also adjusted for translation differences of foreign investments to the prehensive income. This is based on the fact that goodwill would be offset exchange rate prevailing on the last day of the month. The translation in equity if pushed down to subsidiary level. Also, it does not contribute to ­differences are posted directly to other comprehensive income and thus any changes in the net monetary position of the subsidiary. Subsequent do not affect net income for the year. remeasurement of the balances on subsidiary level is part of the net The consolidated financial statements include associates with effect monetary gain or loss recognized in the statement of income as part of from the date of the acquisition. Associates divested are excluded with financial income and expenses. effect from the divestment date. After remeasurement of the financial statements, including both the Transactions, balances and unrealized gains and losses between statement of income and the balance sheet for the operations in Argenthe Group and its associates are eliminated to the extent of the Group’s tina, they have been translated at the closing rate as of the most recent interest in the associate. balance sheet date each quarter. For the income statement this applies to the period July 1 to December 31, 2018, and all subsequent periods. Translation of foreign subsidiaries (IAS 21) NOTE 30 The functional currency of each Group company, that is the currency in which the company primarily generates and expends cash, is determined 76 Securitas Annual and Sustainability Report 2019 N O T E S A N D CO M M E N T S T O T H E CO N S O L I D AT E D F I N A N C I A L S TAT E M E N T S Transactions, receivables and Operating segments (IFRS 8) NOTE 10 Note liabilities in foreign currency (IAS 21) NOTE 11 AND 14 A combination of factors has been used in order to identify the Group’s 1 Transactions in foreign currency are translated into the functional cursegments. Most important is the characteristic of the services pro2 rency in accordance with the exchange rates prevailing at the date of the vided and the geographical split. The operating segments are regularly 3 transaction. Exchange differences on monetary items are recognized in reviewed by the chief operating decision maker, which is the President 4 the statement of income when they arise, with the exception of net investand CEO. 5 ment hedges recognized via other comprehensive income (see above The Group’s operations are divided into three reportable segments 6 under the section Translation of foreign subsidiaries). Exchange differand Other. The reportable segments are also referred to as business 7 ences from operating items are recognized as either production expenses ­segments in the Group’s financial reports. Refer to note 10 for further or selling and administrative expenses, while exchange differences from ­information regarding the segments. 8 financial items are recognized as financial income or financial expenses. As of January 1, 2020, Security Services North America comprises 9 When preparing the financial statements of individual companies, four business units that constitute the operating segments guarding, 10 foreign currency denominated receivables and liabilities are translated electronic security, critical infrastructure and Pinkerton Corporate Risk 11 to the functional currency of the individual company using the exchange Management. Three of the operating segments do not meet the quantita12 rates prevailing at each balance sheet date. tive threshold to be reportable segments under IFRS 8 and since they 13 share the aggregation criteria, they are aggregated with the fourth operat14 Revenue recognition (IFRS 15) NOTE 6 AND 46 ing segment into one reportable segment. This means that the disclosure 15 The Group’s revenue is generated mainly from various types of security level for segments in 2020 will be unchanged compared to previous 16 services, as described below. periods. 17 Guarding services comprises on-site and mobile guarding, which is serAs described above under Revenue recognition, the segments have 18 vices with the same revenue recognition pattern. Revenue is recognized the principle of expensing costs to obtain contracts as they are incurred. 19 over time, as the services are rendered by Securitas and simultaneously Such costs are capitalized at Group level and amortized over the expected duration of the contract. This effect is accounted for under Other in the 20 consumed by the clients. Such services cannot be reperformed. Security solutions and electronic security comprise two broad categosegment overviews and constitutes a difference between the segment’s 21 ries. Security solutions are a combination of services such as on-site and/or accounting principles and the Group´s accounting principles, reflecting 22 mobile guarding and/or remote guarding. These services are combined with the operating result measure reported to the chief operating decision 23 a technology component in terms of equipment owned and managed by maker. This is the only difference in principles between the segments and 24 Securitas and used in the provision of services. The equipment is installed at the Group. 25 the clients’ site. The revenue recognition pattern is over time, as the services The assets and liabilities of each segment include only those items 26 are rendered by Securitas and simultaneously consumed by the clients. A that have been utilized or arisen in ongoing operations. Non-operational 27 security solution normally constitutes one performance obligation. balance sheet items, primarily current tax, deferred tax, and provisions 28 Electronic security consists of the sale of alarm installations comprising for taxes, are accounted for under the Other heading in the table Capital 29 design and installation (time, material and related expenses). Revenue employed and financing in note 10. In the table Assets and liabilities in 30 is recognized as per the contract, either upon completion of the condithe same note, these items are accounted for as unallocated non-interest bearing assets and unallocated non-interest bearing liabilities. Recon­ 31 tions in the contract, or over time based on the percentage of completion. ciliation between total segments and the Group is disclosed in note 10. 32 Remote guarding (in the form of alarm monitoring services), that is sold separately and not as part of a security solution, is also included in this Geographical information related to sales and non-current assets is 33 category. Revenue recognition is over time as this is also a service that is ­disclosed in note 10 for Sweden (which is Securitas’ country of domicile) 34 rendered by Securitas and simultaneously consumed by the clients. The and for all individual countries where the sales or non-current assets 35 category further includes maintenance services, that are either performed exceed 10 percent of the total amount for the Group. 36 upon request (time and material) with revenue recognition at a point in The geographical split of sales is based on the location of the sales. 37 time (when the work has been performed), or over time if part of a service The location of the sales corresponds in all material aspects to the location 38 level contract with a subscription fee. Finally, there is also a to a limited of the clients. There are no sales to any individual client that are deemed 39 extent product sales (alarms and components) without any design or to represent a significant portion of the Group’s total sales. 40 installation. The revenue recognition is at a point in time (upon delivery). 41 Other comprises mainly corporate risk management services that are Accounting for government grants and 42 either recognized over time or at a point in time as well as other ancillary disclosure of government assistance (IAS 20) 43 business. Securitas, like other employers, is eligible for a variety of grants relating Other operating income consists in its entirety of trade mark fees for to employees. These grants relate to training, incentives for hiring new 44 the use of the Securitas brand name. staff, reduction of working hours, etc. All grants are accounted for in the 45 The segments have the principle of expensing costs to obtain contracts statement of income as a cost reduction in the same period as the related 46 as they are incurred. Such costs are capitalized at Group level and amorunderlying cost. 47 tized over the expected duration of the contract. This effect is accounted 48 for under Other in the segment overviews and constitutes a difference Acquisition related restructuring 49 between the segment’s accounting principles and the Group´s accounting and integration costs (IAS 37) NOTE 11 50 principles, reflecting the operating result measure reported to the chief Acquisition related restructuring costs are costs relating to the restructur51 operating decision maker. ing and / or integration of acquired operations into the Group. Restruc52 Costs to fulfil a contract such as salaries and payroll overhead are turing costs can cover several activities that are necessary to prepare 53 expensed immediately as the services are rendered by Securitas and conacquired operations for integration into the Group, such as redundancy 54 sumed by the client. payments. Integration costs normally cover activities that do not qualify 55 to be recognized as provisions. Such activities could be re-branding 56 (changing logotypes on buildings, vehicles, uniforms, etc.), but could also cover personnel costs, for example training, recruitment, relocation and 57 travel, certain client related costs and other incremental costs to trans58 59 60 61 Securitas Annual and Sustainability Report 2019 77 N OTE S AN D COM M ENTS TO T HE CONS OLIDAT ED FINANCI AL STATEMENTS form the acquired operation into Securitas’ format. Classifying expenses Group’s countries of operations, where it has been acquired from a third as costs relating to integration of acquired operations must also fulfill the party. criteria below: For the purpose of impairment testing, assets are grouped as cash• The cost would not have been incurred if the acquisition not had taken place generating units (CGU), which corresponds to the smallest identifiable group of assets that generate cash inflows that are largely independent of • The cost relates to a project identified and controlled by management as part of an integration program set up at the time of acquisition or as the cash inflows from other assets. Following the implementation of IFRS 16 Leases as of January 1, 2019 a direct consequence of an immediate post-acquisition review that was done on segment level, assets and liabilities for the segments are only measured fully on segment level, instead of on country level as Items affecting comparability NOTE 11 in previous years. Thus, the segment level is now the lowest level where This item includes events and transactions with significant effects, which assets and liabilities are accounted for according to IFRS 16. This level are relevant for understanding the Group’s financial performance when corresponds to how Securitas evaluates its business in accordance with comparing income for the current period with previous periods. They IFRS 8 and IAS 36. The change of level for impairment testing has had no include capital gains and losses arising from the disposal of material cash effect on recognition or reversal of impairment losses. generating units, material impairment losses and bad debt losses, litigaAssets that are subject to depreciation or amortization are reviewed tions and insurance claims and other material income and expense items for impairment whenever events or changes in circumstances indicate of a non-recurring nature. The latter thus also includes costs for material that the carrying amount may not be recoverable. If this is the case, an restructuring and transformation programs such as the European cost impairment loss is recognized in the amount by which the asset’s carrying savings program and the transformation programs for further digitization amount exceeds its recoverable amount. The recoverable amount is the of the company initiated during 2018, that will continue over the duration higher of an asset’s fair value less costs to sell and value in use. of the programs. Tax on items affecting comparability and tax items that in Value in use is measured as expected future discounted cash flows. themselves constitute items affecting comparability are reported on the The calculation of value in use is based on assumptions and estimates. line taxes in the consolidated statement of income. The main assumptions concern the organic sales growth, the development Items that are classified as items affecting comparability in a period are of the operating margin and the necessary operating capital employed accounted for consistently in future periods by treating any reversal of requirement as well as the relevant WACC (Weighted Average Cost of those items as items affecting comparability. Capital) rate used to discount future cash flows. When determining the relevant WACC, Securitas considers that cash flows are generated on local Taxes (IAS 12) NOTE 15 AND 49 level, where the operations are conducted. Deferred income tax is provided in full, using the liability method, on temporary differences arising between the tax bases of assets and liabilities Goodwill and other acquisition related intangible and their carrying amounts in the consolidated financial statements. assets (IFRS 3, IAS 36 and IAS 38) NOTE 17 AND 18 However, if the deferred income tax arises from initial recognition of an Goodwill and other acquisition related intangible assets are grouped at asset or liability in a transaction other than a business combination that at the lowest levels for which there are separately identifiable cash flows the time of the transaction affects neither accounting nor taxable profit or (Cash Generating Unit), that is, per segment. This allocation is also the loss, it is not accounted for. Deferred income tax is determined using tax basis for the yearly impairment testing. The Group changed the level of rates (and laws) that have been enacted or substantially enacted by the impairment testing for goodwill from the country level to the segment balance sheet date and are expected to apply when the related deferred level as a consequence of adopting IFRS 16 that resulted in that complete income tax asset is realized or the deferred income tax liability is settled. financial information that is reviewed and used for control is available only A deferred tax asset is recognized when it is probable that sufficient on the segment level. taxable income will arise that the deferred tax asset can be offset against. Goodwill is carried at cost less accumulated impairment losses. Other Deferred tax assets are valued as of the balance sheet date, and any acquisition related intangible assets arising from the Group’s acquisitions potential previously unvalued deferred tax asset is recognized when it is can include various types of intangible assets such as marketing-related, expected to be usable, or correspondingly, reduced when it is expected client-related, contract-related, brand-related and technology-based to be wholly or partly unusable against future taxable income. intangible assets. Other acquisition related intangible assets normally Current tax liabilities include provisions for taxes. Current and deferred have a definite useful life. These assets are recognized at fair value on taxes are posted directly to other comprehensive income if the relevant the date of acquisition and subsequently carried at cost less accumulated underlying transaction or event is posted directly to other comprehensive amortization and any accumulated impairment losses. income in the period, or previous period if it pertains to an adjustment Securitas’ acquisition related intangible assets mainly relate to client of an opening balance of retained earnings as the result of a change in contract portfolios and the related client relationships. The valuation of the accounting principle. Changes in current and deferred taxes that relate client contract portfolios and the related client relationships is based on to exchange rate differences in the translation of the balance sheets of the Multiple Excess Earnings Method (MEEM), which is a valuation model foreign subsidiaries are posted to translation differences in other comprebased on discounted cash flows. The valuation is based on the churn rates hensive income. and profitability of the acquired portfolio at the time of the acquisition. In the Provisions are allocated for estimated taxes in the case dividends model a specific charge – a contributory asset charge – is applied as a cost are anticipated and paid from subsidiaries to a Parent Company in the or return requirement for the assets supporting the intangible asset. Cash following year. flows are discounted using the Weighted Average Cost of Capital (WACC) Deferred income tax is provided on temporary differences arising on adjusted for local interest rate levels in the countries of acquisition. The investments in subsidiaries and associates, except where the timing of the useful life of client contract portfolios and the related client relationships is reversal of the temporary difference is controlled by the Group and based on the churn rate of the acquired portfolio and is normally between it is probable that the temporary difference will not be reversed in the 3 and 10 years, corresponding to a yearly amortization of between 10.0 foreseeable future. percent and 33.3 percent. Brand-related intangible assets are calculated using the relief of royalty method. The useful life of these brands is norImpairment (IAS 36) NOTE 17 mally between 5 and 10 years, corresponding to a yearly amortization of The Group’s assets that have an indefinite useful life are not subject to between 10 and 20 percent. amortization and are tested annually for impairment. In addition to goodAmortization is calculated using the linear method and disclosed on will, these assets are limited to the brand name Securitas in one of the the line amortization and impairment of acquisition related intangible assets in the Group’s statement of income. 78 Securitas Annual and Sustainability Report 2019 N O T E S A N D CO M M E N T S T O T H E CO N S O L I D AT E D F I N A N C I A L S TAT E M E N T S A deferred tax liability is calculated, recognized and reversed over the the Group´s accounting principles for leases in 2018, refer to the Annual Note same period as the intangible asset is amortized, in order to neutralize the Report 2018. 1 impact on the Group’s full tax rate from the acquisition. 2 Accounts receivable (IFRS 9) NOTE 26 3 Other intangible assets (IAS 36 and IAS 38) NOTE 19 AND 50 Accounts receivable are accounted for at nominal value net after provisions 4 The Group’s other intangible assets include the trade mark Securitas, for expected bad debt losses. Expected and recognized bad debt losses are 5 which is estimated to have an indefinite useful life. The trademark has been included in the line production expenses in the statement of income. 6 capitalized only in those cases where it has been acquired from a third Recognized revenue that has not been invoiced as of the balance sheet party. This trademark is not amortized but tested annually for impairment. date is classified as accrued sales income (note 27). Contract balances for 7 All other items in other intangible assets have a definite useful life. performance obligations not yet satisfied are classified as deferred revenue 8 Amortization is linear and the amortization rates are normally: (note 35). 9 10 Software licenses and similar assets  10.0–33.3 percent Financial instruments (IFRS 7 / IFRS 9 / 11 Other intangible assets  10.0–33.3 percent IFRS 13 / IAS 32 / IAS 39) NOTE 7, 14, 23, 28, 31, 34 AND 45 12 Classification and measurement of financial instruments 13 Rental rights and similar rights are amortized over the same period as the The Group classifies financial assets and liabilities as those to be mea14 underlying contractual period. sured at amortized cost and those to be measured at fair value (either 15 through other comprehensive income (OCI) or through the statement 16 Tangible non-current assets of income). The classification of financial assets depends on Securitas’ 17 (IAS 16 and IAS 36) NOTE 21 AND 51 business model for managing these assets and the contractual terms of 18 Securitas applies linear depreciation for tangible non-current assets. the cash flows. The business model mainly applied by Securitas is hold to 19 The depreciation rates are normally: collect, meaning that financial assets are held to collect contractual cash flows. These cash flows solely represent payments of principal and inter20 Machinery and equipment  10–50 percent est (SPPI). The majority of Securitas financial assets are thus measured at 21 Buildings and land improvements  2–10 percent amortized cost. Financial liabilities, except for derivatives, are measured 22 Land  0 percent at amortized cost. Derivatives are measured at fair value through profit 23 and loss unless hedge accounting is applied. 24 Leases (IFRS 16) NOTE 13, 20 AND 41 Financial instruments with maturities within 12 months after the bal25 Securitas’ lease agreements are mainly attributable to buildings and ance sheet date are either included in current assets on the line other 26 vehicles. As from the transition to IFRS 16 on January 1, 2019, they are interest-bearing current assets, or in current liabilities on the line other 27 accounted for as right-of-use assets (included in non-current assets) and short-term loan liabilities. Financial instruments with maturities later than 28 long-term and current lease liabilities in the consolidated balance sheet. 12 months after the balance sheet date are either included in non-current 29 Right-of-use assets are depreciated over the shorter of the asset’s assets on the line interest-bearing financial non-current assets, or in long30 useful life and the lease term on a straight-line basis. In the consolidated term liabilities on the line other long-term loan liabilities. 31 statement of income, depreciation is accounted for on the lines producSecuritas applies the forward-looking expected credit loss model. The most important financial assets subject to this model are accounts receiv32 tion expenses and selling and administrative expenses. Interest expenses are accounted for on the line financial expenses. In the Group’s segment able, for which the Group applies the simplified approach permitted by 33 overviews, the effects of the adoption of IFRS 16 are accounted for under IFRS 9. This method requires expected lifetime losses to be recognized 34 each segment. from initial recognition of the receivables. For further information refer to 35 The lease liabilities are initially measured at the present value of note 26. 36 remaining lease payments, discounted by using the incremental borrow37 ing rate for each country. Lease payments are allocated between principal Financial assets at amortized cost 38 and interest expense. Assets in this category are measured at amortized cost using the effective 39 The right-of-use assets are initially measured at an amount equal to the interest rate method. Most of the Group’s current assets are measured at 40 lease liabilities. If advance payments have been made, the right-of-use amortized cost, for example assets such as accounts receivable and long41 assets are adjusted for these payments. Any reassessment of the lease term and short-term receivables, which are non-derivative financial assets 42 liabilities in subsequent periods leads to corresponding adjustments to with fixed or determinable payments. They arise when the Group provides money, goods or services directly to a debtor with no intention of trading 43 the right-of-use assets. the receivable. 44 Extension clauses are evaluated for each lease agreement and are applied based on the best estimate at each closing. They are included in 45 the lease period if it is reasonably certain that the lease will be extended. Financial assets at fair value through profit and loss (FVPL) 46 Payments for short-term leases, where the lease term ends within Assets in this category are measured at fair value. Changes in fair value 47 12 months of the date of initial application, as well as leases of low-value are recognized in the statement of income as they arise unless hedge 48 assets, are recognized on a straight-line basis as an expense in the stateaccounting is applied. 49 ment of income and thus excluded from the lease liabilities accounted for 50 under IFRS 16. Financial assets at fair value through 51 The extent of lease contracts where the Group is the lessor is limited. other comprehensive income (FVOCI) 52 Leases where the Group is a lessor are classified as either finance leases or Securitas currently has no financial assets in this category. 53 operating leases, depending if they transfer substantially all the risks and 54 rewards of the ownership from the lessor. In cases where the Group is the Financial liabilities at amortized cost Liabilities in this category are measured at amortized cost using the 55 lessor of lease contracts classified as operational, revenue is recognized on a linear basis over the lease term and included in total sales in the coneffective interest rate method. This category comprises such items as 56 solidated statement of income. Depreciation is recognized under operataccounts payable and other current liabilities, and any long-term and 57 ing income on a straight-line basis over the assets’ useful life. short-term loans not included in the category financial liabilities at fair 58 Information regarding the impact on the Group from the adoption and value through profit and loss. 59 application of IFRS 16 is disclosed in note 41. For information regarding 60 61 Securitas Annual and Sustainability Report 2019 79 N OTE S AN D COM M ENTS TO T HE CONS OLIDAT ED FINANCI AL STATEMENTS Financial liabilities at fair value through profit and loss (FVPL) Hedge ineffectiveness Liabilities in this category are measured at fair value. Changes in fair value The Group enters into interest rate swaps that have similar critical terms are recognized in the statement of income as they arise unless hedge as the hedged item, such as reference rate, reset dates, payment dates, accounting is applied. maturities and notional amount. Hedge ineffectiveness for interest rate swaps may occur if changes in Recognition and derecognition circumstances affect the terms of the hedged item such that the critical terms Regular purchases and sales of financial assets are recognized on tradeno longer match exactly with the critical terms of the hedging instrument. It date, the date on which the Group commits to purchase or sell the asset. may occur due to: Financial assets are derecognized when the rights to receive cash flows from the financial assets have expired or have been transferred and the • the credit value/debit value adjustment on the interest rate swaps which is not matched by the loan. This is mitigated by the use of credit Group has transferred substantially all the risks and rewards of ownership. support annexes, and Financial instruments are removed from the balance sheet when the obligation specified in the contract is discharged, cancelled or expired. • differences in critical terms between the interest rate swaps and loans. At initial recognition, the Group measures a financial asset at its fair value As all hedging relationships had matching terms there was no significant plus, in the case of a financial asset not at fair value through profit or loss hedge ineffectiveness during the year. (FVPL), transaction costs that are directly attributable to the acquisition of the financial asset. Transaction costs of financial assets carried at FVPL are Share-based payments (IFRS 2) NOTE 9, 12, 30 AND 56 expensed in profit or loss. Securitas has two share-based incentive schemes. The short-term sharebased incentive scheme has been in place for a number of years subject to Financial risk management and hedge accounting yearly approval by the Annual General Meeting. From 2019, a new longSecuritas’ business activities create exposure to financial risks, such as term share based incentive scheme was approved by the Annual General interest rate risk, foreign currency risk, financing and liquidity risk and Meeting and has been introduced for the CEO, Group Management and a credit / counterparty risk. limited number of other key employees. Derivatives are used for the following main purposes: hedging the interest For both schemes, the cost for Securitas, including social security rate element of external debt and changing its currency profile, gearing ratio expenses, is accounted for in the statement of income during the vesting hedging and hedging of internal borrowings and investments. period. The share-based portion of the bonus is classified as equity. At the Where all relevant criteria are met, Securitas applies hedge accounting to end of the program, a revaluation is made of the original estimates and the remove the accounting mismatch between the hedging instrument and the final outcome of social security expenses is determined. Any deviation due hedged item. At inception of the hedge relationship, the Group documents to the revaluation, for example due to any participant leaving the Group and the economic relationship between hedging instruments and hedged items. not receiving allocated shares, is accounted for in the statement of income. The economic relationship is determined based on the matching of critical Under the short-term share-based incentive scheme the participants in terms. For interest rate hedges these are interest rates, cash flow, currency, the scheme receive a bonus of which two thirds are payable in cash in the interest periods and maturity. For cash flow hedges these are currency, nomibeginning of the year after the bonus has been accrued. The remaining one nal amount and dates. The Group documents its risk management objective third of the bonus is used to acquire shares at market value. These shares and strategy for undertaking its hedge transactions. Hedge effectiveness is are delivered to the participants in March, two years following the perfordetermined at the inception of the hedge relationship, and through periodic mance year, conditioned by a continuous employment during the vesting prospective effectiveness assessments to ensure that an economic relationperiod, except where a participant has left his/her employment due to ship exists between the hedged item and hedging instrument. retirement, death or long-term disability, in which case the participant shall For derivatives designated in fair value hedges, the gains or losses from rehave a continued right to receive shares. measuring the hedging instruments at fair value are recognized in the stateIn order to hedge the share portion of Securitas share-based incentive ment of income. Also included in this category are derivatives where there is scheme 2018, the Group has entered into a swap agreement with a third a natural offset in the accounting and where the purpose is to achieve an offparty. The swap agreement represents an obligation for the Parent Comsetting impact without qualifying for hedge accounting. The Group does not pany to purchase its own shares at a predetermined price. The swap agreehedge 100 percent of its fixed rate loans; therefore, the hedged item is identiment is consequently classified as an equity instrument and accounted for fied as a proportion of the outstanding loans equal to the notional amount of in equity as a reduction of retained earnings. A swap agreement was also the swaps. Accordingly, the hedge ratio is 1:1. entered into to hedge the share portion of Securitas share-based incentive For derivatives designated in cash flow hedges, the gains or losses from scheme 2017. That swap agreement settled during 2019 in conjunction re-measuring the hedging instruments at fair value are recognized in the with the delivery of the shares to the participants upon vesting. hedging reserve in other comprehensive income, with a reversal from the Under the long-term share-based incentive scheme participants will hedging reserve to the statement of income in the period in which the cash have to invest Securitas series B shares at market price or nominate already flow of the hedged item impacts the statement of income. Any ineffectivevested or currently vesting shares under the short-term incentive schemes. ness is recognized in the statement of income. The Group does not hedge For every shares thus purchased or invested the company will grant so 100 percent of its floating rate loans; therefore, the hedged item is identified called performance awards free of charge. The performance condition is as a proportion of the outstanding loans equal to the notional amount of the linked to the development of real change in earnings per share (if applicable swaps. Accordingly, the hedge ratio is 1:1. excluding items affecting comparability) and the outcome is calculated For derivatives which are part of net investment hedges, the exchange rate yearly, whereby one third is measured against the outcome of the first year, gains and losses are recognized in other comprehensive income. Any inefone third against the second year and one third against the third year. The fectiveness is recognized in the statement of income. award of shares is in addition to the fulfilment of performance conditions All cash flows (accrued interest income / expenses) that arise from interestcontingent on the employment as per the vesting day and that the invested rate derivative contracts are recognized as interest income and / or interest shares are kept during the whole vesting period. The number of shares expense in the statement of income in the period to which they relate. awarded will also include compensation for dividend during the vesting Changes in fair value (after accruals) for both the hedged item and the hedgperiod by increasing the number of shares awarded. ing instrument (derivative) are recognized as revaluation of financial instruThe cost for the service rendered under the long-term incentive program ments. Revaluation of financial instruments is included in financial income is spread over the vesting period and is based on a fair value on the grant and / or financial expenses in the statement of income and specified in the date for Securitas series B share. table Revaluation of financial instruments in note 7 as well as on a separate Any share-swap agreement will be separate from those entered into for line in note 14. the short-term share-based incentive scheme described above. The Refer to note 7 for further information regarding the Group´s risk exposure. accounting principles described for the swap agreement above will also be applicable for any future swap agreements in relation to the long-term program. 80 Securitas Annual and Sustainability Report 2019 N O T E S A N D CO M M E N T S T O T H E CO N S O L I D AT E D F I N A N C I A L S TAT E M E N T S Employee benefits (IAS 19) NOTE 24, 32 AND 35 a contingent liability, a provision or a liability should be disclosed and / or Note Employee benefits are all forms of consideration given by the Group in recognized for these disputes. 1 exchange for services rendered by its employees. With the exception of the 2 share-based incentive schemes, described above, which falls under IFRS 2, 3 they are all covered under IAS 19. The considerations mainly relate to  Definitions, calculation of salaries and payroll overhead such as social charges and payroll taxes, but NOTE 3 key ratios and exchange rates 4 5 also include other short-term employee benefits that are expected to be DEFINITIONS 6 settled within 12 months of the balance sheet date. These include, but are 7 not limited to, vacation payments, cash-settled bonuses and also shortterm healthcare benefits. When applicable these benefits also include the Statement of income according to Securitas’ financial model 8 applicable social charges and payroll taxes. In addition to these benefits 9 the Group is also responsible to withhold social charges, payroll taxes and Production expenses1 10 income tax on behalf of its employees. These balances are included in other Wages and related costs, the cost of equipment used when performing 11 current liabilities and in other short-term provisions. professional duties, and all other costs directly related to the performance 12 The Group also operates or participates in a number of defined benefit of services invoiced. 13 and defined contribution pension and other post-employment benefit 14 plans as well as some other long-term employment plans. Other postSelling and administrative expenses1 15 employment plans primarily relate to healthcare benefits. A defined contriAll costs of selling, administration and management including branch office 16 bution plan is a plan under which the Group pays fixed contributions into a expenses. The primary function of the branch offices is to provide the pro17 separate entity. The Group has no legal or constructive obligations to pay duction with administrative support as well as to serve as a sales channel. 18 further contributions if the fund does not hold sufficient assets to pay all 19 members the benefits relating to employee service in the current and prior Gross margin periods. Contributions are recognized as expenses when they fall due for Gross income as a percentage of total sales. 20 payment. Other plans are defined benefit plans. 21 Calculations for the defined benefit plans that exist within Securitas are Operating income before amortization 22 carried out by independent actuaries. Costs related to defined benefit plans Operating income before amortization and impairment of acquisition 23 are recognized in operating income. The calculation of service cost is based related intangible assets and acquisition related costs, but including 24 on the projected unit credit method in a way that distributes the cost over amortization and depreciation of other intangible assets, buildings and 25 the employee’s working life. The net interest cost is estimated by applying land and machinery and equipment. 26 the discount rate to the net defined benefit obligation. Administration costs 27 are recognized in operating income in the period which they occur. Operating margin 28 The net defined benefit obligation recognized in the balance sheet is the Operating income before amortization as a percentage of total sales. 29 present value of the defined benefit obligation at the end of the reporting 30 period less the fair value of plan assets. The obligations are valued at the Operating income after amortization present value of the expected future cash flows using a discount rate cor31 Operating income after amortization and impairment of acquisition responding to the interest rate on high quality corporate bonds or governrelated intangible assets and acquisition related costs, and including 32 ment bonds with a remaining term that is approximately the same as the amortization and depreciation of other intangible assets, buildings and 33 obligations. land and machinery and equipment. 34 Remeasurements of post-employment benefit plans and reimburse35 ment rights are recognized in other comprehensive income in the period Adjusted income 36 which they occur. Remeasurements of other long-term employee benefit Operating income before amortization, adjusted for financial income and 37 plans as well as past service costs are recognized immediately in operating expenses (excluding revaluation of financial instruments according to 38 income. IAS 39) and current taxes. 39 If accounting for a defined benefit plan results in a net balance sheet 40 asset, this is reported in the consolidated balance sheet under other longNet margin 41 term receivables. Otherwise it is reported as a provision under provisions Income before taxes as a percentage of total sales. 42 for pensions and similar commitments. Provisions for pensions and similar commitments are not included in net debt. Real change 43 When it is virtually certain that another party will reimburse some or all of Change adjusted for changes in exchange rates. 44 the expenditure required to settle a defined benefit obligation, the right to 45 reimbursement is recognized. This reimbursement right is measured Statement of cash flow 46 at fair value and classified as a long-term receivable. according to Securitas’ financial model 47 48 Provisions (IAS 37) NOTE 15, 32, 33 AND 36 Cash flow from operating activities 49 The Group’s provisions are mainly related to deferred tax liabilities (note Operating income before amortization adjusted for depreciation / amor50 15), provisions for pensions and similar commitments (note 32) and tization less capital expenditures in non-current tangible and intangible 51 claims reserves (notes 33 and 36). assets (excluding acquisition of subsidiaries), change in accounts receiv52 Claims reserves are calculated on the basis of a combination of case able and changes in other operating capital employed. 53 reserves, which represent claims reported, and IBNR (incurred but not 54 reported) reserves. Actuarial calculations are performed quarterly to assess Free cash flow 55 the adequacy of the reserves based on open claims and historical IBNR. Cash flow from operating activities adjusted for financial income and The Group has 370 000 employees and as such from time to time expenses paid and current taxes paid. 56 faces labor-related disputes with current or former employees in relation 57 to various matters. Such matters can involve, but are not limited to, the Cash flow for the year 1 58 diverse interpretation of labor legislation, individual employee contracts Free cash flow adjusted for acquisition of subsidiaries, acquisition related 59 or collective bargaining agreements and can for example relate to working costs paid, dividends, new issues and change in interest-bearing net debt 60 hours, benefits payable, various reimbursements or the termination of excluding liquid funds. 61 employment. The Group follows IAS 37 and IAS 19 in determining when 1 T he definition is also valid for the formal primary statements – the statement of income and the ­statement of cash flow. Securitas Annual and Sustainability Report 2019 81 N OTE S AN D COM M ENTS TO T HE CONS OLIDAT ED FINANCI AL STATEMENTS Balance sheet according to Securitas’ financial model Change of currency adjusted operating income after amortization: 11% Operating capital employed Operating income after amortization adjusted for changes in exchange Capital employed less goodwill, acquisition related intangible assets and rates as a percentage of the previous year’s operating income after amorshares in associated companies. tization. Calculation: ((5 196 235) / 4 469)-1 = 11% Capital employed Non interest-bearing non-current and current assets less non interestChange of currency adjusted income before taxes: 9% bearing long-term and current liabilities. Income before taxes adjusted for changes in exchange rates as a percentage of the previous year’s income before taxes. Net debt Calculation: ((4 618 215) / 4 028)-1 = 9% Interest-bearing non-current and current assets less long-term and shortterm interest-bearing loan liabilities. Change of currency adjusted net income: 6% Net income adjusted for changes in exchange rates as a percentage of the CALCULATION OF KEY RATIOS 2019 previous year’s net income. Calculation: ((3 362 161) / 3 021)-1 = 6% Usage of key ratios not defined in IFRS Earnings per share before dilution1,2: SEK 9.20 (8.26) Securitas applies ESMA’s (European Securities and Markets Authority) Net income for the year attributable to equity holders of the Parent Comguidelines for Alternative Performance Measures (APM). An APM is a pany in relation to the average number of shares before dilution. financial measure of historical or future financial performance, financial Calculation 2019: ((3 362 5) / 364 993 486) × 1 000 000 = SEK 9.20 position or cash flow that has not been defined in IFRS. In order to faciliCalculation 2018: ((3 021 5) / 365 058 897) × 1 000 000 = SEK 8.26 tate the analysis of the Group’s development made by Group Management and other interested parties, Securitas accounts for certain APMs. Earnings per share before dilution1,2, and before The APMs are additional information and do not replace key ratios accorditems affecting comparability3: SEK 9.61 ing to IFRS. Securitas definitions of APMs may be different from the Net income for the year attributable to equity holders of the Parent definitions in other companies. Refer to the Annual Report 2018 for the Company before items affecting comparability in relation to the average previous year’s calculations. number of shares before dilution. Calculation: ((3 362 5 + 209 57) / 364 993 486) ×1 000 000 = SEK 9.61 Adoption and impact of IFRS 16 Leases As described in note 2 Accounting principles, Securitas has adopted IFRS Change of currency adjusted earnings per 16 Leases as of January 1, 2019. The cumulative effect of the adoption share before dilution1,2: 6% has been recognized without restatement of the comparative periods. Net income for the year attributable to equity holders of the Parent ComAs a consequence, certain lines in the consolidated financial statements pany adjusted for changes in exchange rates in relation to the average and segment overviews as well as key ratios are not comparable with the number of shares before dilution as a percentage of the previous year’s preceding year. The effects of the adoption, including the effect on the earnings per share before dilution. Group´s key ratios, are described in note 41. Calculation: ((((3 362 5 161) / 364 993 486) ×1 000 000) / 8.26)-1 = 6% Acquired sales growth: 1% Change of currency adjusted earnings per share before This year’s sales from acquired business as a percentage of the previous dilution1,2 and before items affecting comparability3: -1% year’s total sales. Net income for the year attributable to equity holders of the Parent ComCalculation: 1 339/101 467 = 1% pany before items affecting comparability and adjusted for changes in exchange rates, in relation to the average number of shares before dilution Organic sales growth: 4% as a percentage of the previous year’s earnings per share before dilution Total sales for the year adjusted for acquisitions and changes in exchange and before items affecting comparability. rates as a percentage of the previous year’s total sales adjusted for divesCalculation: ((((3 362 5 + 209 57 179) / 364 993 486) ×1 000 000) / titures. 9.17)-1 = -1% Calculation: ((110 899 1 339 3 693) / (101 467 34))-1 = 4% Cash flow from operating activities as % of Real sales growth: 6% operating income before amortization: 85% Total sales for the year including acquisitions and adjusted for changes in Cash flow from operating activities as a percentage of operating income exchange rates as a percentage of the previous year’s total sales. before amortization. Calculation: ((110 899 –3 693) / 101 467)-1 = 6% Calculation: 4 902 / 5 738 = 85% Change of currency adjusted operating Free cash flow as % of adjusted income: 83% income before amortization: 3% Free cash flow as a percentage of adjusted income (operating income Operating income before amortization adjusted for changes in exchange rates before amortization adjusted for financial income and expenses, excludas a percentage of the previous year’s operating income before amortization. ing revaluation of financial instruments, and current taxes). Calculation: ((5 738 255) / 5 304)-1 = 3% Calculation: 3 268 / (5 738 578 + 1 1 200) = 83% Operating margin: 5.2% Free cash flow in relation to net debt: 0.19 Operating income before amortization as a percentage of total sales. Free cash flow in relation to closing balance net debt. Calculation: 5 738 / 110 899 = 5.2% Calculation: 3 268 / 17 541 = 0.19 1 There are no convertible debenture loans. Consequently there is no difference between earnings per share before and after dilution. 2 Number of shares includes shares related to the Group’s share-based incentive scheme that have been hedged through a swap agreement. 3 Items affecting comparability in the full year is consisting of one-off effects of MSEK -209 from the IS/IT programs in the Group. 82 Securitas Annual and Sustainability Report 2019 N O T E S A N D CO M M E N T S T O T H E CO N S O L I D AT E D F I N A N C I A L S TAT E M E N T S Net debt to EBITDA ratio: 2.2 Net debt equity ratio: 0.89 Note Net debt in relation to operating income after amortization plus amortizaNet debt in relation to shareholders’ equity. 1 tion of acquisition related intangible assets and depreciation. Calculation: 17 541 / 19 599 = 0.89 2 Calculation: 17 541 / (5 196 + 271 + 2 690) = 2.2 3 Interest coverage ratio: 9.4 4 Operating capital employed as % of total sales: 12% Operating income before amortization plus interest income in relation to 5 Operating capital employed as a percentage of total sales adjusted for full interest expense. year sales of acquired entities. Calculation: (5 738 + 41) / 617 = 9.4 6 Calculation: 13 100 / (110 899 + 570) = 12% 7 Return on equity: 18% 8 Return on operating capital employed: 50% Net income for the year as a percentage of average shareholders’ equity. 9 Operating income before amortization plus items affecting comparability Calculation: 3 362 / ((19 599 + 17 657) / 2) = 18% 10 as a percentage of the average balance of operating capital employed. 11 Calculation: (5 738 209) / ((13 100 + 9 199) / 2) = 50% Equity ratio: 32% 12 Shareholders’ equity as a percentage of total assets. 13 Return on capital employed: 15% Calculation: 19 599 / 62 190 = 32% 14 Operating income before amortization plus items affecting comparability 15 as a percentage of the closing balance of capital employed. 16 Calculation: (5 738 209) / 37 140 = 15% 17 EXCHANGE RATES USED IN THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 2019 AND 2018 18 2019 2018 19 20 Weighted End-rate Weighted End-rate average December average December 21 Argentina ARS 1 0.20 0.16 0.31 0.23 22 Australia AUD 1 6.58 6.52 6.50 6.32 23 Bosnia and Herzegovina BAM 1 5.41 5.33 5.27 5.24 24 Bulgaria BGN 1 5.41 5.34 5.27 5.24 25 Canada CAD 1 7.15 7.13 6.71 6.57 26 Chile CLP 100 1.34 1.25 1.36 1.29 27 China CNY 1 1.37 1.33 1.32 1.30 28 Colombia COP 100 0.29 0.28 0.29 0.27 29 30 Costa Rica CRC 100 1.62 1.63 1.51 1.49 31 Croatia HRK 1 1.43 1.40 1.39 1.38 32 Czech Republic CZK 1 0.41 0.41 0.40 0.40 33 Denmark DKK 1 1.42 1.40 1.38 1.37 34 Egypt EGP 1 0.57 0.58 0.49 0.50 35 EMU countries EUR 1 10.59 10.43 10.30 10.25 36 Hong Kong HKD 1 1.21 1.20 1.11 1.14 37 Hungary HUF 100 3.24 3.15 3.22 3.19 38 India INR 1 0.13 0.13 0.13 0.13 39 Indonesia IDR 100 0.07 0.07 0.06 0.06 40 Jordan JOD 1 13.34 13.14 12.36 12.60 41 Mexico MXN 1 0.49 0.49 0.45 0.46 42 Morocco MAD 1 0.98 0.97 0.93 0.94 43 Norway NOK 1 1.08 1.06 1.07 1.03 44 Paraguay PYG 100 0.15 0.14 0.15 0.15 45 Peru PEN 1 2.83 2.81 2.66 2.65 46 Poland PLN 1 2.46 2.45 2.42 2.38 47 Romania RON 1 2.23 2.18 2.21 2.20 48 Saudi Arabia SAR 1 2.52 2.48 2.32 2.38 49 Serbia RSD 1 0.09 0.09 0.09 0.09 50 Singapore SGD 1 6.95 6.91 6.48 6.54 51 South Africa ZAR 1 0.66 0.66 0.66 0.62 52 South Korea KRW 100 0.81 0.81 0.79 0.80 53 Sri Lanka LKR 100 5.30 5.13 5.34 4.89 54 Switzerland CHF 1 9.53 9.59 8.94 9.11 55 Thailand THB 1 0.31 0.31 0.27 0.27 56 Turkey TRY 1 1.67 1.57 1.80 1.70 57 United Arab Emirates AED 1 2.58 2.54 2.38 2.43 58 UK GBP 1 12.10 12.23 11.61 11.35 59 Uruguay UYU 1 0.27 0.25 0.28 0.28 60 USD countries USD 1 9.47 9.32 8.75 8.94 61 Vietnam VND 100 0.04 0.04 0.04 0.04 Securitas Annual and Sustainability Report 2019 83 N OTE S AN D COM M ENTS TO T HE CONS OLIDAT ED FINANCI AL STATEMENTS NOTE 4 Critical estimates and judgments The preparation of financial reports requires the Board of Directors and Further information regarding acquisitions is provided in note 16 and Group Management to make estimates and judgments using certain regarding revaluation of deferred considerations in note 11. assumptions. Estimates and judgments will impact the statement of income and the balance sheet as well as disclosures such as contingent Impairment testing of goodwill, other acquisition related liabilities. Actual results may differ from these estimates and judgments intangible assets and shares in associated companies under different assumptions and conditions. In connection with the impairment testing of goodwill, other acquisition related intangible assets and shares in associated companies, the book Acquisition of subsidiaries / operations value is compared to the recoverable value. The recoverable value is and deferred considerations determined by the higher of an asset’s net realizable value and its value in The valuation of identifiable assets and liabilities in connection with use. Since under normal circumstances no quoted market prices are availthe acquisition of subsidiaries or operations involves that items in the able to assess an asset’s net realizable value, the book value is normally acquired company’s balance sheet as well as items that have not been compared to the value in use. The calculation of the value in use is based recognized in the acquired company’s balance sheet, such as client relaon assumptions and judgments. The most important assumptions are the tions, should be valued at fair value. In normal circumstances, as quoted organic sales growth, the development of the operating margin, the opermarket prices are not available for the assets and liabilities that are to be ating working capital requirements and the relevant WACC, which is used valued, different valuation methods have to be used. These valuation to discount future cash flows. All in all, this means that the valuation of the methods are based on a number of assumptions. For a personnel intenbalance sheet items goodwill, which amounts to MSEK 22 157 (21 061), sive company like Securitas, employee related items such as accrued salaacquisition related intangible assets, which amounts to MSEK 1 563 ries, accrued social benefits, holiday pay, long-term employee benefits (1 458) and shares in associated companies, which amounts to MSEK and post-employment benefits are significant items in the balance sheet 320 (452) are subject to critical estimates and judgments. A sensitivity that can be difficult to value. Accounts receivable is another example of a analysis regarding the organic sales growth, the operating margin and the significant balance sheet item where it can be difficult to value the amount WACC is provided in note 17. of bad debt and thus to what extent they will be collected. Other items that can be difficult both to identify as well as to value are contingent Leases liabilities that could have arisen in the acquired company in connection Securitas’ lease agreements are mainly attributable to buildings and with for example litigations. As part of the Group’s strategy to acquire vehicles. As from the transition to IFRS 16 on January 1, 2019, they are companies active within the electronic security business this also entails accounted for as right-of-use assets (included in non-current assets), some additional balance sheet items that can be of significant impact which amounts to MSEK 3 489 (222), long-term lease liabilities of MSEK such as net amounts due from or to clients for installation projects (work 2 610 (116) and current lease liabilities of MSEK 944 (106). The accountin progress on behalf of clients) and the related inventory of components ing for leases under IFRS 16 involves making critical estimates and judgthat will be used for installation projects or for service and maintenance ments. Areas where critical estimates and judgments are applied include work. The profitability in the installation projects need to be assessed and determination of the discount rate and the lease term. the existence and valuation of the inventory needs to be established. The lease liabilities are initially measured at the present value of The valuation of identifiable assets and liabilities is also dependent remaining lease payments. As the interest rate implicit in the lease genon the accounting environment that the acquired company / operations erally cannot be readily determined for leases in the Group, the present have been active in. This is true for example for the basis of preparation value is calculated by using the incremental borrowing rate for each counfor the financial reporting and consequently the extent of adjustments try. This is the rate that the individual lessee would have to pay to borrow that are necessary in order to follow the Group’s accounting principles, the the funds necessary to obtain an asset of similar value to the right-of-use frequency for which closings have been prepared and the availability of asset in a similar economic environment with similar terms, security and different types of data that can be necessary in order to value identifiable conditions. The rate is set in line with the Group’s internal borrowing rate, assets and liabilities. All balance sheet items are thus subject to estimates by using each country’s swap rate for the relevant duration plus an internal and judgments. This also means that the initial accounting may have to be borrowing margin. The right-of-use assets are initially measured at an provisionally determined and subsequently adjusted. All acquisition calamount equal to the lease liabilities. A change in the discount rate could culations are finalized no later than one year after the acquisition is made. increase or decrease the present value of the lease liabilities and conseConsidering the above description including the practicability to compile quently the right-of-use assets. Furthermore, it could impact the total and disclose all individual adjustments in a manner that will benefit the cost in the statement of income and the split between depreciation and reader of the financial statements, Securitas has chosen not to state the interest expense. reasons to why the initial accounting of the business combination is proLease terms are negotiated individually for each lease agreement. visional nor which assets and liabilities for which the initial accounting is Determining the correct lease term is important since it impacts the size provisional for each individual business combination unless it is a material of the right-of-use assets and lease liabilities. It also impacts whether a adjustment. lease can be classified as a short-term lease and thus excluded from the All payments to acquire a subsidiary / operation are recorded at fair lease liabilities accounted for under IFRS 16. In determining the lease value at the acquisition date, including debt related to deferred or conterm, management considers all facts and circumstances that create an tingent considerations and acquisition related option liabilities (referred economic incentive to exercise an extension option, or not exercise a terto collectively as deferred considerations). This debt is measured at fair mination option. Extension options (or periods after termination options) value in subsequent periods with remeasurement through the statement are only included in the lease term if the lease is reasonably certain to be of income. The final outcome of deferred considerations often depends extended (or not terminated). In general, extension options have not been on one or more events which only will be confirmed by a future developincluded in the lease liability since the Group could replace the assets ment, such as the future profitability development for an agreed period. without significant cost or business disruption. A change in the lease term The final outcome can therefore either be lower or higher than the initially could increase or decrease the present value of the lease liabilities and recognized amount. Short-term deferred considerations, which amount consequently the right-of-use assets. to MSEK 202 (78) and is included in other current liabilities (note 35) and long-term deferred considerations, which amount to MSEK 223 (195) and is included in other long-term liabilities (note 31), are thus subject to critical estimates and judgments. 84 Securitas Annual and Sustainability Report 2019 N O T E S A N D CO M M E N T S T O T H E CO N S O L I D AT E D F I N A N C I A L S TAT E M E N T S Valuation of accounts receivable related claims reserves, which amounts to MSEK 549 (624) and is Note and the provision for bad debt losses included in other long-term provisions (note 33), are subject to critical 1 Accounts receivable, which amounts to MSEK 16 120 (15 604), is one estimates and judgments. 2 of the most significant balance sheet items. Accounts receivable are 3 accounted for at the nominal value net after provisions for expected bad Calculation of taxes and timing of outflows 4 debt losses. The provision for bad debt losses, which amounts to MSEK Deferred tax is calculated on temporary differences between the car5 -579 (-508), is thus subject to critical estimates and judgments. Securitas rying amounts and the tax values of assets and liabilities. Assumptions 6 has a low level of bad debt losses, in the range of 0.1 percent of sales in and assessments affect recognized deferred tax, partly to determine the carrying amounts of the different assets and liabilities, and partly 7 the past five years. As stated above, accounts receivable is often an important item in related to forecasts regarding future taxable profits, where future utiliza8 relation to the acquisition of subsidiaries / operations. Further information tion of deferred tax assets depends on this. Significant assessments and 9 regarding the credit risk in accounts receivable is provided in note 7. Inforassumptions are also made regarding recognition of provisions and con10 mation regarding the ageing of accounts receivable and the development tingent liabilities relating to tax risks and the potential impact of ongoing 11 of the provision for bad debt losses during the year is provided in note 26. tax audits. Tax audits are often lengthy processes that go on for several 12 years. It is thus not possible to disclose any detailed information regarding 13 Employee benefits including labor-related disputes the timing of outflows from taxes. 14 With 370 000 employees and salaries and social benefits representing The balance sheet includes deferred tax assets of MSEK 918 (961), 15 more than 80 percent of the total operating expenses, the accounting current tax assets of MSEK 922 (581), deferred tax liabilities of MSEK 624 16 for employee benefits is crucial to determine a correct result. The Group (571), and current tax liabilities of MSEK 1 621 (1 362), which are subject 17 operates in many countries with different legislation and different regulato critical estimates and judgments. Further information regarding taxes is 18 tory frameworks surrounding the benefits payable to employees and the provided in note 15 and note 38. 19 related payroll overhead such as social charges and payroll taxes. Given the large number of employees, the Group from time to time also The impact on the Group’s financial position of ongoing 20 faces labor-related disputes with current or former employees in relation litigations and the valuation of contingent liabilities 21 to various matters. Such matters can involve, but are not limited to, the Over the years, the Group has made a number of acquisitions in different 22 diverse interpretation of labor legislation, individual employee contracts countries. As a result of such acquisitions, certain contingent liabilities 23 or collective bargaining agreements and can for example relate to working of the businesses acquired have been assumed. Companies within the 24 hours, benefits payable, various reimbursements or the termination of Group are also involved in a number of proceedings, including legal pro25 employment. All in all, this means that the employee-related items in the ceedings and tax audits arising out of the operations. The accounting for 26 balance sheet are subject to critical estimates and judgments. These ballitigations, legal proceedings and tax audits are subject to critical esti27 ances are mainly included under employee-related items (note 35), which mates and judgments. Further information is provided in note 38. 28 amounts to MSEK 8 134 (7 511), but also form part of short-term provi29 sions (note 36) as a part of other provisions MSEK 533 (786). Potential effect of Brexit 30 For defined benefit plans relating to benefits particularly for pensions Securitas operations in the UK are foremost with local clients and in local 31 and medical benefits and where the payment to the employee is several currency. The preliminary assessment is that the impact from the UK’s 32 years into the future, actuarial calculations are required. These calculadecision to leave the EU will have limited effect on Securitas local busitions are based on assumptions regarding economic variables such as ness in the UK. Any changes in the Swedish krona exchange rate versus 33 the discount rate, salary increases, inflation rate, pension increases and the British pound will affect the Group’s consolidated financial statements 34 the inflation rate for medical benefits, but also on demographic variables when translating the British financial statements to Swedish kronor. 35 such as the expected life span. All in all, the balance sheet item pension 36 balances for defined benefit plans which amounts to MSEK 95 (36) and COVID-19 37 which is stated under other long-term receivables (note 24), and the balSecuritas as well as other companies are currently facing the challenge of 38 ance sheet item provisions for pensions and similar commitments, which the spread of COVID-19 (Corona virus). Securitas operations in China are 39 amounts to MSEK 1 141 (1 116), is subject to critical estimates and judglimited and in Italy we operate a small business in electronic security 40 ments. The Group’s opinion is that the most important assumptions are only. However we do see the further spreading of the virus in many differ41 the discount rate, the inflation rate and the expected life span. A sensitivent countries, especially in Europe where Securitas has significant opera42 ity analysis regarding these three variables is provided in note 32. tions, and the implementation of important measures around the world to 43 prevent the further spreading impacting society and business. As per the Actuarial calculations regarding claims 44 date of signing of this Annual Report Securitas has seen certain effects, reserves and timing of outflows 45 so far mostly in relation to cancelled events and reduced traffic in airports. The Group is exposed to various types of risks in the day-to-day running Securitas is actively mitigating any impacts to the service levels, as well 46 of the business. The operational risks can result in the need to recognize as to the income, costs and cash flows, by working together with different 47 reserves for damages resulting from property claims, personal injuries as clients and the employees. It is currently impossible to estimate the ulti48 well as workers’ compensation claims relating to the Group’s employees. mate impact on the Group, but Securitas is putting mechanisms in place to 49 Claims reserves are calculated based on a combination of case reserves measure and forecast such and will further adopt its mitigation measures 50 and incurred but not reported reserves. Actuarial calculations are perwhere required. 51 formed on a quarterly basis to assess the adequacy of the reserves based 52 on open claims and historical data for incurred but not reported claims. 53 Actuarial calculations are based on several assumptions. Claims reserves NOTE 5 Events after the balance sheet date 54 comprise a large number of individual insurance cases, where some cases 55 are compensated with a lump-sum payment and others are paid over a lonApproval of the Annual Report and 56 ger period of time. It is thus not possible to disclose any detailed informaConsolidated Financial Statements for 2019 tion regarding the timing of outflows from claims reserves. 57 This Annual Report including the Consolidated Financial Statements All in all, this means that the balance sheet items short-term liability 58 was approved by the Board of Directors and the President and CEO of insurance-related claims reserves, which amounts to MSEK 595 (578) Securitas AB on March 18, 2020. 59 and is included in short-term provisions (note 36), and liability insurance60 61 Securitas Annual and Sustainability Report 2019 85 N OTE S AN D COM M ENTS TO T HE CONS OLIDAT ED FINANCI AL STATEMENTS Other significant events after the balance sheet date Securitas has acquired Fredon Security, founded in 2012 as a division 520 employees with a strong footprint across Spain and Portugal. Techco within Fredon Group, an Australian engineering and building services Security’s annual sales was MEUR 50 (MSEK 520) in 2018. The purchase company. The company has approximately 110 employees and had price is estimated to MEUR 22 (MSEK 230). The acquisition was closed annual sales of MAUD 37 (MSEK 240) in the financial year ending June and consolidated into Securitas as of January 8, 2020. 30, 2019. The purchase price is estimated to MAUD 32 (MSEK 210). The In order to hedge the share portion of Securitas short-term shareacquisition was consolidated into Securitas as of January 9, 2020. based incentive scheme 2019, Securitas AB entered into a swap agreeSecuritas reinforces its leadership position within the electronic ment with a third party in the beginning of March 2020. security market in Spain through the acquisition of Techco Security, a There have been no other significant events with effect on the financial leading electronic security company. The company has approximately reporting after the balance sheet date. NOTE 6 Revenue Disaggregation of revenue The Group has chosen to disaggregate revenue from sales to clients into three broad categories; Guarding services, Security solutions and electronic security and Other. These categories are described in Note 2 Accounting principles under the heading Revenue recognition. In addition, revenue also includes Other operating income which consists of trade mark fees. MSEK 2019 % 2018 % Guarding services 85 774 77 79 567 79 Security solutions and electronic security 23 290 21 20 440 20 Other 1 835 2 1 460 1 Total sales 110 899 100 101 467 100 Other operating income 34 0 30 0 Total revenue 110 933 100 101 497 100 Revenue per segment The Group’s business segments follow the same accounting principles for revenue recognition as the Group. The disaggregation of revenue by segment is shown in the table below. Total sales agree to total sales in the segment overviews. Security Services Security Services Security Services North America Europe Ibero-America Other Eliminations Group MSEK 2019 2018 2019 2018 2019 2018 2019 2018 2019 2018 2019 2018 Guarding services 37 779 33 541 36 637 35 402 9 572 9 045 1 809 1 588 -23 -9 85 774 79 567 Security solutions and electronic security 8 885 7 365 10 611 9 638 3 527 3 270 267 167 – – 23 290 20 440 Other 1 835 1 460 – – – – – – – – 1 835 1 460 Total sales 48 499 42 366 47 248 45 040 13 099 12 315 2 076 1 755 -23 -9 110 899 101 467 Other operating income – – – – – – 34 30 – – 34 30 Total revenue 48 499 42 366 47 248 45 040 13 099 12 315 2 110 1 785 -23 -9 110 933 101 497 CONTRACT BALANCES Most revenue is recognized in advance of the payment by clients. MSEK 2019 2018 Payment terms vary mainly between 0 and 60 days. Prepayments from clients are normally done quarterly in advance, but there is also to some Contract receivables extent prepayments covering up to one year in advance. Accounts receivable (note 26) 16 120 15 604 Accrued sales income (note 27) 3 424 3 224 COSTS TO OBTAIN A CONTRACT Total contract receivables 19 544 18 828 MSEK 2019 2018 Included in other intangible assets (note 19) 480 445 Contract liabilities Total costs to obtain a contract 480 445 Deferred revenue (note 35) 965 951 Total contract liabilities 965 951 This item mainly consists of sales commissions paid for individual contracts signed. All commissions are expensed on subsidiary level and thus on segment level. The Group capitalizes these costs and includes the capitalizaRevenue recognized in 2019 that was included in contract liabilities tion and amortization under Other in the Group’s segment overview. 2018 amount to MSEK 951 (648). Most of the contract liabilities 2019 is The amortization for 2019 amounted to MSEK -96 (-90). There has expected to be recognized as revenue in 2020. been no impairment of assets relating to costs to obtain a contract for Revenue recognized in 2019 from performance obligations satisfied 2019 nor for 2018. in 2018 (and in 2018 from 2017) is not material due to the nature of the services. 86 Securitas Annual and Sustainability Report 2019 N O T E S A N D CO M M E N T S T O T H E CO N S O L I D AT E D F I N A N C I A L S TAT E M E N T S Remaining performance obligations NOTE 7 Financial risk management Note The Group’s revenue can be of either a recurring or non-recurring nature. 1 Recurring revenue is normally included in what the Group designates Financial risk factors 2 as its client contract portfolio. To qualify for inclusion in the client conThe Group’s business activities create exposure to financial risks, such 3 tract portfolio, a contract should normally have a duration of at least 12 as interest rate risk, foreign currency risk, financing and liquidity risk and 4 months. However, contracts can be of various lengths ranging from a very credit / counterparty risk, as detailed in the sections below. The Group’s 5 short duration up to several years, particularly security solution contracts overall financial risk management program focuses on the unpredictability 6 where on-site and/or mobile guarding and/or remote guarding are comof the financial markets and aims to minimize potential adverse effects on the financial performance of the Group. 7 bined with a technology component in terms of equipment owned and managed by Securitas and used in the rendering of services. Contracts 8 can have a yearly renewal date, but contracts can also be signed without Treasury organization and activities 9 a fixed end-date. All contracts normally contain cancellation clauses for The aim of the treasury organization in Securitas is to support business 10 both Securitas and the client. operations by identifying, quantifying and minimizing financial risks and 11 Securitas uses the client retention rate* as a key measurement for how to the extent possible, to take advantage of economies of scale in the trea12 long a contract that is included in the client contract portfolio normally is sury operations. 13 operated. The client retention rate in the client contract portfolio per busi14 ness segment and for the Group is shown in the table below. Business segments 15 Treasury operations in the business segments concentrate on improving 16 cash flow by focusing on profitability in the business operations, reducing Client retention rate*, % 2019 2018 17 capital tied-up in accounts receivable and managing local cash in the most Security Services North America 90 91 efficient way. 18 Security Services Europe 90 93 19 Security Services Ibero-America 92 92 Countries 20 Other 86 90 In countries with extensive operations, liquidity surpluses and liquidity 21 Group 89 91 deficits in local subsidiaries are matched at country level with the help of 22 local cash-pooling solutions. In addition, Securitas operates an overall 23 *Client retention rate is defined as the opening balance client contract portfolio adjusted for annualized cash-pooling structure incorporating countries in the Eurozone, UK and terminations in percent of opening balance client contract portfolio. 24 US. All local long-term financial requirements are financed directly from 25 the Group’s internal bank, Group Treasury Centre (GTC), in Dublin. Contracts included in the client contract portfolio can be based on hours 26 of work performed or with fixed monthly, quarterly or yearly invoicing and 27 Group Treasury Centre also including service level agreements. 28 By concentrating financial risk management in a single location, the In addition to its client contract portfolio, the Group also has revenue of 29 Group can readily monitor and control these risks and benefit from the a non-recurring nature. For Guarding services this can be from either conexpertise of dedicated treasury personnel. Also, by concentrating internal 30 tract clients or event-based sales. Within Electronic security, alarm instaland external financing through GTC, economies of scale can be used to 31 lations are considered non-recurring revenue even if the same clients can obtain the best possible pricing of investments and loans. GTC also has 32 order new installations from Securitas. Maintenance services performed responsibility for matching local liquidity surpluses and deficits between 33 upon request (time and material) is also considered a non-recurring revecountries and cash-pools. GTC identifies, evaluates and hedges financial nue even if the same clients can revert and order further maintenance ser34 risks in co-operation with the operating units. The Board of Directors of vices for the same or for a different site/installation. Product sales (alarms Securitas AB establishes policies for overall risk management, as well as 35 and components) is also considered non-recurring revenue. policies covering specific areas such as foreign exchange risks, interest 36 Corporate risk management services include both recurring and nonrate risk, credit risk, use of derivative financial instruments and investing 37 recurring revenue services. excess liquidity. 38 Deferred revenue for performance obligations that is expected to be Derivatives are used for the following main purposes: hedging the 39 satisfied mainly during 2020 amount to MSEK 965 (951). interest rate element of external debt and changing its currency profile, 40 gearing ratio hedging and hedging of internal borrowings and investments. 41 42 Interest rate risk 43 Interest rate risk is the risk that the Group’s net income will be affected 44 by changes in interest payable and / or receivable arising from changes in market interest rates. The Group has raised fixed and floating rate debt 45 predominately in USD, EUR and SEK. Detailed information on long-term 46 borrowings is provided in note 31. The Group uses interest rate deriva47 tives in designated fair value and cash flow hedges to hedge changes in 48 the risk-free rate, converting the interest rate profile of this debt. As at 49 December 31, 2019 MEUR 671 (671) of issued debt is swapped from 50 fixed to floating. Securitas does not expect any ineffectiveness between 51 the hedged item and the hedging instrument in fair value hedges as a 52 result of the transition to a new benchmark rate. There are two USD53 bonds totaling MUSD 80 (80) swapped from floating to fixed. These cash 54 flow hedges mature in July 2020 and 2021 respectively and will not be 55 impacted by the transition to a new benchmark rate. The target for the free cash flow to net debt ratio is always to exceed 56 0.20. Free cash flow to net debt as of December 31, 2019 was 0.19 57 (0.13). The Group’s interest coverage ratio, a measure of its ability to pay 58 interest costs, was 9.4 (10.7) as of December 31, 2019. 59 Information on the Group’s debt profile is provided in the table below as 60 well as information on interest rate fixings. 61 Securitas Annual and Sustainability Report 2019 87 N OTE S AN D COM M ENTS TO T HE CONS OLIDAT ED FINANCI AL STATEMENTS THE GROUP ’S INTEREST BEARING LIABILITIES AND ASSETS PER CURRENCY AS PER DECEMBER 31, 2019 AND 2018 Net impact on Net impact on Current Interest income stateInterest income statebook cost (incl. rates, ment due to rates, ment due to Currency Amount, MSEK Duration (days) credit margin) +1% 1% increase1 -1% 1% decrease1 December 31, 2019 USD liabilities -8 841 753 3.8% 4.0% -15 3.3% 33 EUR liabilities -7 464 567 1.6% 2.2% -38 0.9% 37 GBP liabilities -319 23 2.4% 3.4% -3 1.4% 3 SEK liabilities -3 566 -10 0.4% 1.4% -28 0.3% 3 Other currencies liabilities -1 870 19 5.4% 6.4% -15 4.4% 15 Total liabilities -22 060 494 2.6% 3.2% -99 2.1% 91 USD assets 309 3 0.0% 1.0% 2 -1.0% -2 EUR assets 2 322 27 -0.3% 0.8% 18 -1.3% -18 GBP assets 27 1 0.0% 1.0% 0 -1.0% 0 SEK assets 928 0 0.0% 1.0% 7 -1.0% -7 Other currencies assets 933 7 3.8% 4.8% 7 2.8% -7 Total assets 4 519 16 0.7% 1.7% 34 -0.4% -34 Total -17 541 – 3.0% – -65 – 57 December 31, 2018 USD liabilities -7 661 985 3.6% 4.1% -37 3.1% 26 EUR liabilities -6 133 633 1.5% 2.1% -28 0.9% 28 GBP liabilities -345 30 2.2% 3.2% -3 1.2% 3 SEK liabilities -3 245 0 0.0% 1.0% -25 -1.0% 25 Other currencies liabilities -978 28 4.3% 5.3% -8 3.3% 8 Total liabilities -18 362 624 2.3% 2.9% -101 1,6% 90 USD assets 635 2 1.8% 2.8% 5 0.8% -5 EUR assets 1 570 6 -0.3% 0.7% 12 -0.3% -1 GBP assets 37 2 0.0% 1.0% 0 -1.0% 0 SEK assets 862 7 0.0% 1.0% 7 -1.0% -7 Other currencies assets 745 7 4.3% 5.3% 6 3.3% -6 Total assets 3 849 6 1.0% 2.0% 30 0.4% -19 Total -14 513 – 2.6% – -71 – 71 1 T he 1 percent increase / decrease in interest rates is calculated by adjusting the floating rate accordingly and applying this rate to the asset / liability to establish the impact on net financial items in the income statement. This is further adjusted by the effective corporation tax rate. Interest rate fixing It is the policy of Securitas to use interest rate derivatives if required to duration of the underlying debt. Group policy allows for the use of both manage its interest rate risk and as a consequence the Group’s financing options-based and fixed-rate products. There are no options-based prodcosts. The duration of these derivatives does not normally exceed the ucts in the financial reporting in 2019 or 2018. INTEREST FIXING PER CURRENCY1,2 December 31, 2019 December 31, 2020 December 31, 2021 Amount Amount Amount Amount Amount Amount Final Currency MSEK MLOC Rate3 % MSEK MLOC Rate3 % MSEK MLOC Rate3 % maturity October USD 6 757 725 3.7% 6 384 685 3.8% 3 066 329 4.4% 2024 EUR 3 713 356 1.5% 3 713 356 1.5% 3 713 356 1.5% March 2025 Total 10 470 – – 10 097 – – 6 779 – – 1 Refers to interest rate fixing with a maturity in excess of three months. 2 Cash flow hedges are applied to a nominal value of MUSD 80, converting floating rates to the rates 1.6% and 2.0%, maturing in the years 2020 and 2021, respectively. 3 Average rate including credit margin. 88 Securitas Annual and Sustainability Report 2019 N O T E S A N D CO M M E N T S T O T H E CO N S O L I D AT E D F I N A N C I A L S TAT E M E N T S Foreign currency risks Note 1 Transaction risk translated into SEK. With the object of minimizing the impact of changes 2 Transaction risk is the risk that the Group’s net income will be affected in exchange rates on the Group’s net debt to equity ratio, Securitas aims 3 by changes in the value of commercial flows in foreign currencies due to to maintain a long-term debt to equity ratio in USD and EUR that is close 4 fluctuating exchange rates. The nature of the business is domestic rather to the Group’s total debt to equity ratio. Foreign exchange swaps and 5 than cross-border and consequently foreign currency transaction risk is cross currency interest rate swaps are used to change the currency of the 6 not significant. underlying debt where required in order to achieve this. Net investment 7 hedge and cash flow hedge accounting is applied to these swaps. 8 Financing of foreign assets – translation risk The tables below show how the Group’s capital employed is distributed Translation risk is the risk that the SEK value of foreign currency equity will by currency, and its financing, including derivatives. They also show the 9 fluctuate due to changes in foreign exchange rates. sensitivity of the net debt and capital employed to changes in the SEK 10 Securitas’ foreign currency capital employed as of December 31, exchange rate. 11 2019 was MSEK 36 392 (31 664). Capital employed is financed by loans The consolidated statement of income is affected by the translation to 12 in local currency and shareholders’ equity. This means that Securitas, SEK of the statements of income of foreign subsidiaries. As these subsid13 from a Group perspective, has shareholders’ equity in foreign currency iaries essentially operate only in local currency, their competitive situation 14 that is exposed to changes in exchange rates. This exposure gives rise is not affected by changes in exchange rates and since the Group as a 15 to a translation risk and consequently unfavorable changes in exchange whole is geographically diversified, this exposure is not hedged. 16 rates could have a negative effect on the Group’s foreign net assets when 17 18 CAPITAL EMPLOYED AND FINANCING PER CURRENCY AS PER DECEMBER 31, 2019 AND 2018 19 Other Total foreign Total Group Total Group 20 MSEK EUR USD GBP currencies currencies SEK Total Group +10%1 -10%1 21 December 31, 2019 22 Capital employed 11 337 18 390 1 297 5 368 36 392 748 37 140 40 779 33 501 23 Net debt -5 086 -8 498 -278 -1 040 -14 902 -2 639 -17 541 -19 031 -16 051 24 Whereof foreign exchange 25 swaps included in net investment hedge 2 2 924 -5 889 – – -2 965 -2 832 -5 797 -6 094 -5 501 26 Whereof foreign exchange swaps 27 included in cash flow hedge3 4 484 – – – 4 484 -4 484 – 448 -448 28 Whereof other foreign exchange 29 swaps 441 113 -278 -1 040 -764 2 928 2 164 2 088 2 240 30 Whereof net debt excluding 31 foreign exchange swaps -12 935 -2 722 – – -15 657 1 749 -13 908 -15 474 -12 342 32 Non-controlling interests 2 – – 28 30 – 30 33 27 33 Net exposure 6 249 9 892 1 019 4 300 21 460 -1 891 19 569 21 715 17 423 34 Net debt to equity ratio 0.81 0.86 0.27 0.24 0.69 -1.40 0.89 0.88 0.92 35 36 December 31, 2018 37 Capital employed 10 320 15 620 1 219 4 505 31 664 506 32 170 35 336 29 004 38 Net debt -4 543 -7 054 -304 -310 -12 211 -2 302 -14 513 -15 734 -13 292 39 Whereof foreign exchange swaps included in net 40 investment hedge 2 3 176 -4 309 – – -1 133 -2 731 -3 864 -3 977 -3 751 41 Whereof foreign exchange swaps 42 included in cash flow hedge3 4 401 – – – 4 401 -4 401 – 440 -440 43 Whereof other foreign exchange swaps 73 -449 -304 -310 -990 2 836 1 846 1 747 1 945 44 Whereof net debt excluding 45 foreign exchange swaps -12 193 -2 296 – – -14 489 1 994 -12 495 -13 944 -11 046 46 Non-controlling interests 2 – – 23 25 – 25 28 23 47 Net exposure 5 775 8 566 915 4 172 19 428 -1 796 17 632 19 575 15 689 48 Net debt to equity ratio 0.79 0.82 0.33 0.07 0.63 -1.28 0.82 0.80 0.85 49 1 Changes in capital employed due to changes in foreign exchange rates are either accounted for in other comprehensive income or offset against changes in underlying debt. Consequently, they do not impact net 50 income. 51 2 Relates to a portion of the net investment hedge which is fixed to the amount of MUSD 492 and the USD/SEK rates are 8.48 and 8.21. The balance is a dynamic hedge and rates vary periodically. 3 Currency cash flow hedges are applied to a nominal value of MEUR 430, fixing the EUR/SEK rates at 9.37 and 10.09. 52 53 54 55 56 57 58 59 60 61 Securitas Annual and Sustainability Report 2019 89 N OTE S AN D COM M ENTS TO T HE CONS OLIDAT ED FINANCI AL STATEMENTS Net debt The table below details the changes to net debt during the year. CHANGE IN INTEREST-BEARING NET DEBT AS PER DECEMBER 31, 2019 AND 2018 2019 2018 Loans and Loans and MSEK Liquid funds other net debt Total Liquid funds other net debt Total Opening balance 3 229 -17 742 -14 513 3 611 -15 944 -12 333 Cash flow from operating activities 4 902 – 4 902 3 172 – 3 172 Financial income and expenses paid -443 – -443 -432 – -432 Current taxes paid -1 191 – -1 191 -856 – -856 Payments for acquisition related items -574 – -574 -1 755 – -1 755 Payments for items affecting comparability -303 – -303 -117 – -117 Dividend paid -1 606 – -1 606 -1 460 – -1 460 Lease liabilities – -3 332 -3 332 – – – Bond proceeds 1 445 -1 445 – 3 004 -3 004 – Bond redemption -792 792 – -3 480 3 480 – Commercial paper proceeds 5 098 -5 098 – 2 500 -2 500 – Commercial paper redemption -5 300 5 300 – -1 550 1 550 – Other changes -544 544 – 610 -610 – Real change 692 -3 239 -2 547 -364 -1 084 -1 448 Revaluation of financial instruments1 – 60 60 – 26 26 Translation2 27 -568 -541 -18 -740 -758 Closing balance 3 948 -21 489 -17 541 3 229 -17 742 -14 513 1 Relates to unrealized gains and losses on fair value hedges and cash flow hedges including hedge ineffectiveness. 2 Whereof MSEK -338 (-530) is related to USD and MSEK -103 (-143) is related to EUR. LIABILITIES FROM FINANCING ACTIVITIES 2019 AND 2018 Non-cash changes Opening Closing balance MSEK balance Jan 1 Cash flows1 Reclassifi­cation Other changes Translation Dec 31 2019 Long-term borrowings 15 858 1 491 -373 54 186 17 216 Short-term borrowings 2 282 -1 438 373 73 – 1 290 Lease liabilities 222 -1 285 – 4 527 2 90 3 554 Assets held to hedge borrowings -516 – – -122 – -638 Total 17 846 -1 232 – 4 532 276 21 422 2018 Long-term borrowings 12 926 3 004 -760 115 573 15 858 Short-term borrowings 3 491 -2 025 760 -44 100 2 282 Lease liabilities 191 -94 – 110 15 222 Assets held to hedge borrowings -299 – – -217 – -516 Total 16 309 885 – -36 688 17 846 1 Excluding other derivative positions and dividend paid to shareholders of the Parent Company, which are included in cash flow from financing activities in the consolidated statement of cash flow. 2 Whereof MSEK 3 433 is related to the adoption of IFRS 16 on January 1, 2019. 90 Securitas Annual and Sustainability Report 2019 N O T E S A N D CO M M E N T S T O T H E CO N S O L I D AT E D F I N A N C I A L S TAT E M E N T S Financing and liquidity risk Securitas has a Revolving Credit Facility with its 12 key relationship Note The Group’s short-term liquidity is ensured by maintaining a liquidity banks. This credit facility comprises two respective tranches of MUSD 1 reserve (cash and bank deposits, short-term investments and the unuti550 and MEUR 440 and matures in 2022. On December 31, 2019, the 2 lized portion of committed credit facilities), which should correspond to a facility was undrawn. 3 minimum of 5 percent of consolidated annual sales. As of December 31, Securitas also has a Euro Medium Term Note Program (EMTN) with a 4 2019, the short-term liquidity reserve corresponded to 10 percent (10) of limit of MEUR 3 000 under which public and private funding can be raised 5 the Group’s annual sales. on international capital markets. As of December 31,2019 there were ten outstanding bond loans with maturities ranging from 2020 to 2025. 6 The Group’s long-term financing risk is minimized by ensuring that the In addition, Securitas also has a short-term Swedish commercial paper 7 level of long-term financing (shareholders’ equity, long-term committed loan facilities and long-term bond loans) at least matches the Group’s capprogram in the amount of MSEK 5 000. On December 31, 2019, 8 ital employed. Per December 31, 2019 long-term financing corresponded MSEK 750 of the facility was drawn. The objective is to have access to 9 to 125 percent (135) of the Group’s capital employed. short-term financing at competitive prices. Pricing is based on the prevail10 Financing of the Group should be well balanced among different ing market rates at time of issuance. 11 sources and long-term. The aim is that committed loan facilities and bond 12 loans should have an average maturity of more than 3.5 years. As per The table below shows a summary of the credit facilities as of December 13 December 31, 2019 the average maturity was 2.7 years. The following 31, 2019. 14 tables summarize the Group’s liquidity risk at end 2019 and 2018 respec15 CREDIT FACILITIES AS PER DECEMBER 31, 2019 tively. 16 Facility Available LIQUIDITY REPORT AS PER DECEMBER 31, 2019 AND 2018 amount amount 17 Type Currency (million) (million) Maturity 18 Between Between EMTN FRN private 19 1 year 3 years placement USD 40 0 2020 and and 20 MSEK Total < 1 year < 3 years 5 years > 5 years EMTN FRN private placement USD 40 0 2021 21 December 31, 2019 EMTN FRN private 22 Borrowings, placement USD 60 0 2021 principal amount -18 184 -1 267 -8 605 -5 183 -3 129 23 EMTN FRN private 24 Borrowings, placement USD 40 0 2021 interest amount -974 -289 -425 -221 -39 25 EMTN Eurobond, Derivatives outflows 2.625% fixed EUR 350 0 2021 26 interest -412 -127 -188 -65 -32 EMTN Eurobond, 27 Other derivatives outflows -10 705 -6 119 -2 954 – -1 632 1.25% fixed EUR 350 0 2022 28 Lease liabilities -3 809 -1 024 -1 280 -655 -850 Multi Currency USD (or 29 Accounts payable -2 001 -2 001 – – – Revolving Credit Facility equivalent) 550 550 2022 30 Total outflows1 -36 085 -10 827 -13 452 -6 124 -5 682 Multi Currency EUR (or Revolving Credit Facility equivalent) 440 440 2022 31 Investments, EMTN Eurobond, 32 principal amount 2 208 2 208 – – – 1.125% fixed EUR 350 0 2024 33 Derivatives receipts EMTN FRN private 34 interest 284 97 118 51 18 placement USD 50 0 2024 Other derivatives receipts 10 646 6 126 3 017 15 1 488 35 EMTN FRN private Accounts receivable 16 120 16 120 – – – placement USD 105 0 2024 36 Total inflows1 29 258 24 551 3 135 66 1 506 EMTN Eurobond, 37 1.25% fixed EUR 300 0 2025 38 Net cash flows, total2, 3 -6 827 13 724 -10 317 -6 058 -4 176 Commercial Paper 39 (uncommitted) SEK 5 000 4 250 n/a December 31, 2018 40 Borrowings, In combination with Securitas’ strong cash flow, these sources of financing 41 principal amount -17 765 -2 323 -5 196 -3 586 -6 660 42 provide liquidity on a short and long-term basis as well as flexibility to Borrowings, finance the Group’s expansion. 43 interest amount -1 123 -292 -512 -202 -117 44 Derivatives outflows interest -267 -123 -80 -42 -22 The graph below shows the maturity profile a  s of December 31, 2019 45 for the Group’s interest-bearing debt. 46 Other derivatives outflows -10 201 -5 802 – -2 833 -1 566 47 Lease liabilities -222 -106 -116 – – 48 MSEK Accounts payable -1 833 -1 833 – – – 49 12 000 Total outflows1 -31 411 -10 479 -5 904 -6 663 -8 365 50 10 000 Investments, 8 000 51 principal amount 1 640 1 640 – – – 6 000 52 Derivatives receipts 4 000 53 interest 394 104 194 53 43 2 000 54 Other derivatives receipts 10 250 5 807 23 2 954 1 466 0 55 Accounts receivable 15 604 15 604 – – – 2020 2021 2022 2023 2024 2025 2026 56 Total inflows 1 27 888 23 155 217 3 007 1 509 57 Net cash flows, total2, 3 -3 523 12 676 -5 687 -3 656 -6 856 ■■ EUR bond/PP ■■ USD/PP ■■ 2022 RCF (drawn) ■■ 2022 RCF (undrawn) 58 1 Refers to gross cash flows. 2 All contractual cash flows per the balance sheet date are included, including future interest payments. 59 3 Variable rate cash flows have been estimated using the relevant yield curve as at the balance sheet date. 60 61 Securitas Annual and Sustainability Report 2019 91 N OTE S AN D COM M ENTS TO T HE CONS OLIDAT ED FINANCI AL STATEMENTS Credit / counterparty risks Fair value of financial instruments Counterparty risk – accounts receivable The methods and assumptions used by the Group in estimating the fair The Group has generally low risk in the accounts receivables for a number value of the financial instruments are: of reasons. A large proportion of sales are based on contracts with wellknown large and medium sized clients with an established and long-term • Cash and bank deposits and short-term investments: carrying amounts approximate fair values. relationship. This provides for transparent and safe collection of invoices. New clients are duly reviewed in terms of credit worthiness. • Derivative and other financial instruments: fair values are estimated based on quoted market prices, on prices provided by independent The contract portfolio sales are also diversified in several ways, of brokers, or are calculated on best market prices. The prices used are fair which the most important is that there are few / no clients that represent values stated excluding accrued interest. a significant portion of total sales. Default by a single client then has little overall effect. In addition, Securitas provides its services to geographically • Debt: fair values of fixed rate debt are based on either quoted prices or are estimated using discounted cash flow calculations based upon dispersed clients in a large number of sectors including governments, utilthe Group’s current incremental borrowing rates for similar types of ities, financial sector, travel, logistics and industrial. Hence, the exposure borrowings with maturities consistent with those remaining for the to financial distress in any particular sector or region is relatively limited. debt being valued. The fair value of floating rate debt is assumed to Securitas’ services are also, although vital in many aspects, mostly equal the carrying value of the debt. ancillary to the business of the clients. This means that the cost of security services represents a small fraction of total costs of running ­clients’ busiREVALUATION OF FINANCIAL INSTRUMENTS1 ness, making Securitas less exposed to payment defaults than suppliers MSEK 2019 2018 of services or goods more directly involved in the value chain. Recognized in the statement of income All of this provides for secure collection of the sales generated, which Other financial income and expenses2,3 -1 2 is evidenced by low bad debt losses in the range of 0.1 percent of sales in Deferred tax – – the past five years. Impact on net income for the year -1 2 Counterparty risk – liquid funds Recognized in other comprehensive income The credit quality of interest-bearing receivables is described below, Transfer to cash flow hedging reserve before tax 99 194 where 79 percent (76) of interest-bearing receivables have a rating of Transfer to cost of hedging reserve before tax 16 -56 A1 / P1. Deferred tax on transfer to hedging reserve -25 -30 CREDIT QUALITY INTEREST-BEARING RECEIVABLES Transfer to hedging reserve net of tax 90 108 MSEK 2019 2018 A1 / P1 3 573 2 926 Transfer to statement of income before tax -54 -114 Other 946 923 Deferred tax on transfer to statement of income 12 25 Total interest-bearing receivables 4 519 3 849 Transfer to statement of income net of tax -42 -89 The Group has policies in place that limit the amount of credit exposure Change of cash flow hedging reserve before tax 45 80 to any one financial institution. The use of Credit Support Annexes Change of cost of hedging reserve before tax 16 -56 reduces the Group’s counterparty exposures on its outstanding derivaTotal change of hedging reserve before tax4 61 24 tives. Investments of liquid funds may only be made in government paper Deferred tax on total change or with financial institutions with a high credit rating. As of December of hedging reserve 4 -13 -5 31,2019 the weighted average credit rating of these institutions was Total change of hedging reserve net of tax 48 19 short-term A1 / P1. The largest total exposure for all instrument types to any one institution was MSEK 1 123 (1 343). Total impact on shareholders’ equity as specified above Rating Total revaluation before tax5 60 26 In order to access international debt capital markets in an effective manner, Deferred tax on total revaluation5 -13 -5 Securitas has obtained long-term and short-term credit ratings from Total revaluation after tax 47 21 Standard & Poor’s. The long-term rating is BBB with positive outlook and 1 S ecuritas has early adopted the amendments to IFRS 9, specifically the temporary relief from certain the short-term rating is A-2. The Nordic short-term rating is K-2. accounting requirements to hedging relationships directly affected by the IBOR reform. 2 Related to financial assets and financial liabilities at fair value through profit or loss. 3 T here was no significant ineffectiveness in the fair value hedges or in the cash flow hedges. The adjustment to the carrying value of the hedged item in fair value hedges amounted to MSEK 3 (-1). 4 Total of transfer to hedging reserve and transfer from hedging reserve to statement of income. 5 Total revaluation and deferred tax recognized via statement of income and via other comprehensive income. HEDGING RESERVE AS PER DECEMBER 31, 2019 AND 2018 Cost of Interest rate Currency hedging cash flow cash flow Total Deferred Total net MSEK reserve hedges hedges before tax tax of tax Opening balance January 1, 2019 -56 10 65 19 -4 15 Change in fair value of hedging instrument recognized in other comprehensive income 16 -18 117 115 -25 90 Reclassified from other comprehensive income to profit or loss – 6 -60 -54 12 -42 Closing balance December 31, 2019 -40 -2 122 80 -17 63 Opening balance January 1, 2018 – 5 -10 -5 1 -4 Change in fair value of hedging instrument recognized in other comprehensive income -56 -1 195 138 -30 108 Reclassified from other comprehensive income to profit or loss – 6 -120 -114 25 -89 Closing balance December 31, 2018 -56 10 65 19 -4 15 92 Securitas Annual and Sustainability Report 2019 N O T E S A N D CO M M E N T S T O T H E CO N S O L I D AT E D F I N A N C I A L S TAT E M E N T S The table below discloses carrying values and fair values of financial instruments according to the categories in note 2. Note FINANCIAL INSTRUMENTS BY CATEGORY – CARRYING AND FAIR VALUES AS PER DECEMBER 31, 2019 AND 2018 1 2 2019 2018 3 MSEK Carrying value Fair value Carrying value Fair value 4 Assets 5 Financial assets at amortized cost 6 Interest-bearing financial non-current assets (note 23) 224 224 145 145 7 Other interest-bearing current assets (note 28) 121 121 104 104 8 Other long-term receivables (note 24)1 481 481 481 481 9 Accounts receivable (note 26) 16 120 16 120 15 604 15 604 10 Other current receivables (note 27)2 4 163 4 163 3 907 3 907 11 Liquid funds (note 29) 3 948 3 948 3 229 3 229 12 Total financial assets at amortized cost 25 057 25 057 23 470 23 470 13 14 Liabilities 15 Financial liabilities at amortized cost 16 Long-term loan liabilities (note 31) 5 448 5 448 1 919 1 919 17 Short-term loan liabilities (note 34) 2 211 2 211 2 367 2 367 18 Accounts payable 2 001 2 001 1 833 1 833 19 Other current liabilities (note 35)3 4 780 4 780 4 517 4 517 20 Financial liabilities designated as hedged item in a fair value hedge (note 31) 4,5 14 194 14 475 13 939 14 065 21 Total financial liabilities at amortized cost 28 634 28 915 24 575 24 701 22 23 Derivatives designated for hedging 24 Interest-bearing financial current assets (note 28) 13 13 17 17 25 Interest-bearing financial non-current assets (note 23) 213 213 354 354 26 Total derivatives assets designated for hedging 226 226 371 371 27 Interest-bearing financial current liabilities (note 34) 23 23 21 21 28 Interest-bearing financial long-term liabilities (note 31) 184 184 116 116 29 Total derivatives liabilities designated for hedging 207 207 137 137 30 Net total 19 19 234 234 31 32 1 Excluding all pension balances and reimbursement rights (note 24) 400 400 302 302 33 2 Excluding prepaid expenses (note 27) 1 271 1 271 1 149 1 149 34 3 Excluding employee-related accrued expenses and prepaid income (note 35) 8 156 8 156 7 511 7 511 35 4 The carrying value of the hedged Items in fair value hedges have been adjusted by MSEK 163 (166). 5 The difference between the carrying value and fair value of short-term and long-term loan liabilities is due to the 36 credit margin in the discount rate. 37 38 39 FAIR VALUE – HIERARCHY AS PER DECEMBER 31, 2019 AND 20181 40 Valuation techniques Valuation techniques 41 using observable using non-observable 42 Quoted market prices market data market data Total 43 MSEK 2019 2018 2019 2018 2019 2018 2019 2018 44 Financial assets at fair value through profit or loss – – 13 16 – – 13 16 45 2 2 Financial liabilities at fair value through profit or loss – – -14 -10 -425 -272 -439 -282 46 Derivatives designated for hedging with positive fair value – – 213 356 – – 213 356 47 Derivatives designated for hedging with negative fair value – – -194 -127 – – -194 -127 48 1 There have been no transfers between any of the valuation levels during the year. 49 2 Related to deferred considerations. These have been recognized mainly based on an assessment 50 of the future profitability development in the acquired entities for an agreed period. 51 52 53 54 55 56 57 58 59 60 61 Securitas Annual and Sustainability Report 2019 93 N OTE S AN D COM M ENTS TO T HE CONS OLIDAT ED FINANCI AL STATEMENTS Offsetting financial assets and financial liabilities For the financial assets and liabilities subject to enforceable master netsimilar agreement will have the option to settle all such amounts on a net ting arrangements or similar arrangements, each agreement between basis in the event of default of the other party. Per the terms of each agreethe Group and the counterparty allows for net settlement of the relevant ment, an event of default includes failure by a party to make payment when financial assets and liabilities when both elect to settle on a net basis. In the due, failure by a party to perform any obligation required by the agreement absence of such an election, financial assets and liabilities will be settled (other than payment) if such failure is not remedied within periods of 30 to on a gross basis. However, each party to the master netting agreement or 60 days after notice of such failure is given to the party, or bankruptcy. Financial assets The following financial assets are subject to offsetting, enforceable master netting arrangements or similar agreements. Gross amounts of Net amounts of Financial Gross amounts recognized financial financial assets instruments of recognized liabilities set off in presented in not set off in the MSEK financial assets the balance sheet the balance sheet balance sheet Net amount December 31, 2019 Derivative financial assets 226 – 226 19 207 Total 226 – 226 19 207 December 31, 2018 Derivative financial assets 372 – 372 43 329 Total 372 – 372 43 329 Financial liabilities The following financial liabilities are subject to offsetting, enforceable master netting arrangements or similar agreements. Gross amounts of Net amounts of Financial Gross amounts recognized financial financial liabilities instruments of recognized assets set off in presented in not set off in MSEK financial liabilities the balance sheet the balance sheet the balance sheet Net amount December 31, 2019 Derivative financial liabilities 208 – 208 80 128 Total 208 – 208 80 128 December 31, 2018 Derivative financial liabilities 137 – 137 56 81 Total 137 – 137 56 81 References to other notes For further information regarding financial instruments, refer to: • Note 2 Accounting principles • Note 14 Net financial items • Note 23 Interest-bearing financial non-current assets • Note 28 Other interest-bearing current assets • Note 31 Long-term liabilities excluding provisions • Note 34 Short-term loan liabilities • Note 45 Financial risk management (Parent Company) 94 Securitas Annual and Sustainability Report 2019 N O T E S A N D CO M M E N T S T O T H E CO N S O L I D AT E D F I N A N C I A L S TAT E M E N T S NOTE 8 Transactions with related parties These guidelines shall apply to individuals who are included in the Note Group Management during the term of application of these guidelines. The 1 Guarantees on behalf of related parties amount to MSEK 0 (0). guidelines shall apply to agreements entered into after the adoption by the 2 Information on the remuneration to the Board of Directors and Senior Annual General Meeting, and to changes made in existing agreements after 3 Management is provided in note 9. Information on total payroll expenses this date. The Board shall be entitled to deviate from the guidelines in indi4 for the Board of Directors and the Presidents of the Group is provided in vidual cases if there are specific reasons for such deviation. 5 note 12. The Board of Directors proposal to the Annual General Meeting in May 2020 on guidelines for remuneration to senior management regarding 2020 6 For information on the Parent Company’s transactions with related is presented in the Report of the Board of Directors, in this Annual Report. 7 parties, refer to note 44 and note 47. 8 Planning and decision-making process 9 Remuneration to the Board of The Board’s remuneration committee deals with the above matters 10 NOTE 9 Directors and senior management regarding the President and CEO and other members of the Group 11 Management, as well as other management levels if the committee so 12 General decides. The committee presents its proposals to the Board of Directors, 13 which takes all decisions. The members of the remuneration committee 14 Principles are Marie Ehrling (chairman) and Carl Douglas. The committee has held 15 The Chairman of the Board and the Directors receive fees in accordance two meetings in 2019. 16 with the decision of the Annual General Meeting, which includes separate 17 fees for committee work. The employee representatives do not receive Board of Directors Fees to the Board of directors, relating to the period up to the Annual Gen18 Directors’ fees. eral Meeting 2020 are provided according to the Annual General Meet19 The Annual General Meeting on May 6, 2019 adopted guidelines for ing’s decision on May 6, 2019. For the 2019 financial year, the Chairman 20 remuneration to senior management regarding 2019 in accordance with the following: Marie Ehrling receives a director’s fee, including committee work fee, of 21 The fundamental principle is that remuneration and other terms of MSEK 2.3. The other Directors receive an aggregate director’s fee, includ22 employment for senior management shall be competitive and in accoring committee work fee, of MSEK 5.6. The remuneration for each mem23 dance with market conditions, in order to ensure that the Securitas Group ber of the Board of Directors is disclosed in the tables below. The Board of 24 will be able to attract and keep competent senior management employees. Directors is otherwise not entitled to any other compensation except for 25 The total remuneration to senior management shall consist of a fixed travel and lodging expenses. 26 basic salary, variable remuneration, pensions and other benefits. 27 In addition to a fixed annual salary the Group Management may also President and Chief Executive Officer 28 receive variable remuneration, which shall be based on the outcome in The President and CEO Magnus Ahlqvist’s salary for the 2019 financial year, amounted to MSEK 16.3. The compensation includes salary in lieu 29 relation to financial goals within the individual’s area of responsibility of pension amounting to MSEK 2.8 during the time Magnus Ahlqvist 30 (Group or division) and which shall be aligned with the interest of the was resident in the United Kingdom. The President and CEO’s pension 31 shareholders. The variable remuneration shall amount to a maximum benefits amounts to 30 percent of the base salary. As from Magnus 32 of 60 percent of the fixed annual salary for the President and CEO and a maximum of 42–200 percent of the fixed annual salary for other individuAhlqvist’s move to Sweden during 2019, pension premiums are paid for a 33 als of the Group Management. If cash payment of variable remuneration defined contribution pension plan and a defined benefit plan which in total 34 has been effected on grounds later proven to be obviously inaccurate, the amounts to 30 percent of the base salary. The change has not impacted 35 company shall have the possibility to reclaim such paid remuneration. the total compensation, only the allocation between salary and pension 36 The Board of Directors shall each year consider whether to propose premiums. The pension costs for the financial year 2019 amounted to 37 that the Annual General Meeting shall resolve upon share or share price MSEK 1.3, which includes premiums to a Swedish defined benefit plan 38 related incentive programs. Ahead of the Annual General Meeting 2019, (ITP), limited to deductible amounts for tax purposes. The defined benefit 39 the Board of Directors proposes, in addition to the previously decided plan guarantees a lifetime pension from the age of 65 and the pension 40 incentive schemes, the implementation of LTI 2019/2021. compensation corresponds to a certain percentage of the final salary, the maximum pensionable income is currently MSEK 1.9. The pension 41 The cost of the company for 2019 in terms of its obligations to pay varicost for the defined benefit pension plan in 2019 amounted to MSEK 0.2 42 able remuneration to the Group Management is estimated to not exceed a (included in the total pension cost for the President and CEO, see also the 43 total of MSEK 99 at maximum outcome (not including potential costs for the LTI 2019/2021). Information on previously decided remuneration which has table below). No pension benefits are conditioned by future employment. 44 not yet been paid can be found in note 9 of the Annual Report for 2018. Other salary benefits amounted to MSEK 0.5. Magnus Ahlqvist has 45 Subject to applicable legislation, the entire Group Management shall also continued as Divisional President for Security Services Europe for the 46 be subject to defined contribution pension plans for which insurance preperiod up to March 4, 2019, without separate compensation. 47 miums are transferred from the individual’s total remuneration and paid Upon dismissal, the notice period for the President and CEO amounts 48 by the company during the term of employment. In exceptional cases, to twelve months with a right to a severance pay after the end of the 49 the value of such insurance premiums can instead be paid as part of the notice period, equivalent to twelve months fixed salary. 50 remuneration to the members of the Group Management. Variable comThe prior President and CEO until March 7, 2018, Alf Göransson, is 51 pensation shall not qualify for pension purposes unless local regulations according to an agreement up to March 2020, an advisor to Securitas’ Pres52 provide otherwise. ident and CEO Magnus Ahlqvist. In this role Alf Göransson will, among other things support in some client relations activities, acquisition related matters 53 Other benefits, such as company car, special health insurance or occuand industry specific topics. The compensation for the advisory engage54 pational health service shall be provided to the extent this is considered ment for the 2019 financial year amounted to MSEK 8.2. There are no other 55 customary for senior management employees holding equivalent positions on the labor market where the senior management employee is active. benefits, variable compensation or pension in this engagement. 56 At dismissal, the notice period for all senior management employees 57 shall amount to a maximum of twelve months with a right to redundancy Other members of Group Management 58 payment after the end of the notice period, equivalent to a maximum of The other Group Management consisted by the end of 2019 of the fol59 100 percent of the fixed salary for a period not exceeding twelve months. lowing fifteen members: Bart Adam (Chief Financial Officer), Martin 60 At resignation by a senior management employee, the notice period shall Althén (Chief Information Officer), Helena Andreas, as of February 1, 61 amount to a maximum of six months. 2019 (Senior Vice President, Group Brand and Communications), William Securitas Annual and Sustainability Report 2019 95 N O T E S A N D CO M M E N T S T O T H E CO N S O L I D AT E D F I N A N C I A L S TAT E M E N T S Barthelemy (Chief Operating Officer, Security Services North America), remuneration/ bonus will, according to the incentive scheme, be settled in Tony Byerly, as of July 1, 2019 (President, Securitas Electronic Security), cash the year after the performance year, while shares will be purchased Jorge Couto, as from July 1, 2019 (Divisional President, Security Services for the remaining one third. The bonus criteria is based on individual perIbero-America), Santiago Galaz (Divisional President, Security Services formance and / or the performance for the part of the Group that the indiNorth America), Peter Karlströmer, as of March 4, 2019 (Divisional Presividual is responsible for. For Securitas there are no other material costs dent, Security Services Europe), Andreas Lindback, as of July 1, 2019 than the allotted bonus and related social benefits. (Divisional President AMEA, Africa, Middle East and Asia), Jan Lindström The share purchase in Securitas will be handled by trading on the (Senior Vice President Finance), Aimé Lyagre (Chief Operating Officer Nasdaq Stockholm exchange through a swap agreement. Shares are purand Chief Technology Officer, Security Services Europe), Marc Pissens chased corresponding to one third of the total achieved bonus amount. (President Aviation), Brian Riis Nielsen, as of July 1, 2019 (SVP for Global The purchased shares will be allotted to the participants in March, two Clients and leader of Global Clients & Vertical Markets), Frida Rosenholm years following the performance year, given that they are still employed (Senior Vice President, General Counsel) and Henrik Zetterberg (Chief by the Group, except where an employee has left his/her employment due Operating Officer, Security Services Europe). to retirement, death or long-term disability, in which case the employee Luis Posadas (Divisional President, Security Services Ibero-America up shall have a continued right to receive bonus shares. Securitas will not to June 30) retired and left the Group Management as of June 30, 2019. issue any new shares or similar due to this incentive scheme. The purpose Santiago Galaz (Divisional President Security Services North America up is to replace cash bonus with shares in Securitas AB and thus increase the to December 31) was appointed Executive Chairman of Securitas North employees’ ownership in Securitas. America and left the Group Management as of January 1, 2020. William The short-term share-based incentive scheme includes two particiBarthelemy (Chief Operating Officer Security Services North America pants from other Group Management that are entitled to receive the up to December 31) retired from this role, left the Group Management share part according to the scheme. In March 2020, shares in Securitas as of January 1, 2020 and will assist as an advisor and continue working AB have been purchased corresponding to the value of the total sharewith select clients through 2021. Greg Anderson (appointed President, based remuneration. The shares have been purchased through a swap North American Guarding, Security Services North America as of January agreement, based on the current market price at the time. The shares will 1, 2020) and José Castejon (appointed Chief Operating Officer, North be allotted to the participants during the first quarter 2021, provided that American Guarding, Security Services North America as of January 1, they are still employed by the Group or have retired. 2020), joined the Group Management as of January 1, 2020. In the 2019 financial year the other members of Group Management Securitas long-term share-based incentive scheme have received the following remuneration during the time as members. Securitas’ Annual General Meeting May 6, 2019 resolved on a new shareAggregate fixed salaries amounted to MSEK 95.3, and other salary bene­ based bonus scheme, LTI 2019/2021, for the President and CEO, other fits to MSEK 4.8. members of Group management and certain key employees all in all to up The other members of Group Management have individual pension to 80 participants. For the qualifying participants the scheme is intended plans. The retirement age varies from country to country and pension to be an alternative to the short-term share-based incentive scheme plan. As described under Principles above, members can allocate part of described above. The new scheme will be based on different principles their remuneration to a defined contribution pension plan. All members than the existing and previous share-based incentive schemes and parof Group Management have defined contribution pension plans for which ticipants in the new long-term scheme will not be entitled to participate pension premiums are allocated from the member’s total remuneration in the short-term share-based incentive scheme. In order to participate and paid by the company during the term of employment. These prein the scheme, which runs over the period 2019 to 2021, participants miums may vary but are limited to amounts deductible for tax purposes have to invest Securitas series B shares at market price or nominate by the company. In 2019 the pension costs for other members of Group already vested or currently vesting shares under the short-term incentive Management amounted to MSEK 17.1. No pension benefits are condischemes. tioned by future employment. The LTI 2019/2021 incentive includes the President and CEO Magnus During 2019 six members had a Swedish defined benefit pension plan Ahlqvist and 12 members of other Group Management. (ITP), but can also allocate part of their remuneration to a defined contribuFor every share thus purchased or invested the company will grant so tion plan. The Swedish defined benefit plan guarantees a lifetime pension called performance awards free of charge in as per below: from the age of 65. The pension compensation corresponds to a certain Category 1 (the President and CEO): maximum five performance percentage of the final salary, and the maximum pensionable income is awards per each invested share. MSEK 1.9 per employee. This pension benefit is funded through annual Category 2 (Group Management): maximum four performance awards premiums paid by the company during the term of employment, and the per each invested share. pension cost for these six members in 2019 was MSEK 3.3 (included in the The performance conditions are linked to the development of real total pension cost for other Group Management, see also the table below). change in earnings per share (if applicable excluding items affecting Upon dismissal, the notice period and a right to a severance pay after comparability) and the outcome is calculated yearly, whereby one third is the end of the notice period, is equivalent to a maximum of 24 months measured against the outcome of the first year (2019), one third against the fixed salary, for members of Group Management. second year (2020) and one third against the third year (2021). The award of shares is in addition to the fulfilment of performance conditions continShortand long-term incentives gent on the employment as per the vesting day in February 2022 and that Short-term as well as long-term incentives for eligible employees in the invested shares are kept during the whole vesting period. The number Securitas include clearly measurable performance-based targets that are of shares awarded thus will also include compensation for dividend during set as close to the local business as possible and aim for long-term profitthe vesting period by increasing the number of shares awarded. ability of the Group. The performance targets that are required to achieve The cost for the service rendered under the long-term incentive promaximum bonus vary depending on the position of the employee but are gram is spread over the vesting period and is based on a fair value on the as a principle based on year-on-year improvement of the operating result grant date for Securitas series B share of SEK 161.40 per share for the (EBITA) in the area of responsibility and targets based on improvement of program 2019 to 2021. cash flow or development of real change earnings per share. See further information in note 2 and 12. Information regarding the final allocation of shares to the Group Management in March 2020 under Securitas short-term share-based incentive scheme the 2018 share-based incentive scheme, as well as the potential allocaSecuritas’ Annual General Meeting May 6, 2019 resolved on a share and tion of shares in 2021 under the 2019 share-based incentive scheme and cash bonus scheme, a similar incentive scheme that the Annual General potential allocation of shares in 2022 under the long-term share-based Meeting 2018 resolved on. The participants in the scheme have a variincentive LTI 2019/2021 and the fair value of these shares, are disclosed able remuneration based on performance. Two thirds of the variable in the tables below. 96 Securitas Annual and Sustainability Report 2019 N O T E S A N D CO M M E N T S T O T H E CO N S O L I D AT E D F I N A N C I A L S TAT E M E N T S Shortand long-term variable compensation 2019 amounted to MSEK 11.0. The accumulated provision for other long-term Note For the President and CEO Magnus Ahlqvist the variable short-term bonus programs amounted to MSEK 14.5 as of December 31, 2019, 1 compensation relating to the 2019 performance amounted to MSEK 3.6, whereof MSEK 11.8 is paid in 2020. At resignation by a management 2 which will be paid in cash in 2020. Long-term variable compensation employee, any unpaid long-term bonus will stay with the company. 3 referring to the LTI 2019/2021 amounted to MSEK 0.4, which will be 4 potentially allocated in shares in 2022. ALLOCATION OF SHARES TO GROUP MANAGEMENT RELATING TO 5 The aggregate short-term variable compensation relating to the 2019 SECURITAS SHORT-TERM AND LONG-TERM SHARE-BASED INCENTIVE performance to the other members of Group management amounted SCHEMES 2019 6 to MSEK 44.0, whereof MSEK 6.6 will be allocated in shares under the Number of shares 1 Fair value , MSEK 2 7 short-term share-based incentive in 2021 and MSEK 37.4 will be paid in 8 2019 2019 cash in 2020. Long-term variable compensation to the other members 9 Magnus Ahlqvist, President and CEO 3 2 197 0.4 of Group Management relating to the 2019 performance under the LTI 10 2019/2021, amounted to MSEK 0.9, which will potentially be allocated as Other members of Group Management 57 624 7.6 11 award shares in 2022. Total holdings 59 821 8.0 12 During 2019 four members of other Group Management have had 1 P  otential allocation of shares 2021, according to Securitas short-term share-based incentive 13 other long-term incentive plans, which are provided for during the perforscheme 2019, according to purchase prices for Securitas Series B shares in March 2020, and for Securitas long-term share-based incentive LTI 2019/2021, to be allocated in 2022. 14 mance year. Two plans are reconciled to the annual performance, paid in 2 Fair value of potential allocation of shares based for 15 the following year 2020. For two plans a reconciliation of performance will a. Securitas short-term share-based incentive 2019 on currency rates as of February 28, 2020 and Securitas Series B share purchase prices in March 2020. 16 be made including 2020, with a potential payment during 2021, condib. Securitas long-term share-based incentive LTI 2019/2021, SEK 161.40 per share. tioned by that the performance targets have been met. The provision for 17 other long-term variable compensation relating to the 2019 performance 18 19 Remuneration to the Board of Directors and Group Management 20 21 REMUNERATION RELATED TO 2019 22 Base Other Variable Total 23 KSEK salary / fee benefits compensation 4 Pension remuneration 24 Marie Ehrling, Chairman of the Board1 2 300 – – – 2 300 25 Carl Douglas, vice Chairman 1 895 – – – 895 26 Ingrid Bonde 1 835 – – – 835 27 John Brandon 635 – – – 635 28 Anders Böös1 835 – – – 835 29 Fredrik Cappelen 1 960 – – – 960 30 Sofia Schörling Högberg 1 835 – – – 835 31 Dick Seger 635 – – – 635 32 Subtotal Board of Directors 7 930 – – – 7 930 33 Magnus Ahlqvist, President and CEO 2 16 253 479 3 959 1 300 21 991 34 Other members of Group Management3 95 294 4 818 55 902 17 064 173 078 35 Subtotal President and CEO and Group Management 111 547 5 297 59 861 18 364 195 069 36 Total 119 477 5 297 59 861 18 364 202 999 37 Above information refers to full year remuneration for the current Group Management, unless stated 3O  ther members of Group Management consisted as of December 31, 2019 of 15 persons. The 38 otherwise. The Board of Directors has no pension benefits. compensation for member who left the Group Management during the year is included. 1 Including remuneration for committee work. 4R  efer to the cost for 2019 for Securitas incentive scheme for cash and share-based bonus and long39 2 B ase salary and 30% salary in lieu of pension contributions KSEK 2 773 and translation difference term incentive plans, see also separate table for the share-based part. 40 from GBP for part of salary paid in the United Kingdom according to agreement. 41 REMUNERATION RELATED TO 2018 42 Base Other Variable Total 43 KSEK salary / fee benefits compensation5 Pension remuneration 44 Marie Ehrling, Chairman of the Board1 2 100 – – – 2 100 45 Carl Douglas, vice Chairman1 895 – – – 895 46 Ingrid Bonde1 760 – – – 760 47 John Brandon 580 – – – 580 48 Anders Böös1 760 – – – 760 49 Fredrik Cappelen1 865 – – – 865 50 Sofia Schörling Högberg1 760 – – – 760 51 Dick Seger 580 – – – 580 52 Subtotal Board of Directors 7 300 – – – 7 300 53 Magnus Ahlqvist, President and CEO (1 March – 31 December)2 14 666 181 6 386 – 21 233 54 Alf Göransson, President and CEO (1 January – 28 February) 3 2 500 28 – 757 3 285 55 Other members of Group Management4 71 456 3 269 63 318 10 639 148 682 56 Subtotal President and CEO and Group Management 88 622 3 478 69 704 11 396 173 200 57 Total 95 922 3 478 69 704 11 396 180 500 58 Above information refers to full year remuneration for the current Group Management, unless stated 4 Other members of Group Management consisted as of December 31, 2018 of ten persons. The 59 otherwise. The Board of Directors has no pension benefits. compensation for Magnus Ahlqvist in the role as Divisional President Security Services Europe dur60 1 Including remuneration for committee work. ing the period January 1 to February 28, 2018 is included in this amount, as well as for one member 2 B ase salary and 30% salary in lieu of pension contributions KSEK 3 404 and translation difference who left the Group Management during 2018. 61 from GBP for part of salary paid in the United Kingdom according to agreement. 5 Refer to the cost for 2018 for Securitas incentive scheme for cash and share-based bonus and long3 In addition, salary for the period March 1 to March 7, 2018 amounted to KSEK 288. Compensation term incentive plans, see also separate table for the share-based part. for advisory engagement for the period March 8 to December 31, 2018 amounted KSEK 7 994. There are no other benefits, variable compensation or pension in this engagement. Securitas Annual and Sustainability Report 2019 97 N O T E S A N D CO M M E N T S T O T H E CO N S O L I D AT E D F I N A N C I A L S TAT E M E N T S Shareholdings The Board of Directors’ and Group Management’s shareholdings through acquisitions on the stock market as of December 31, 2019, as well as the ­allocation of shares to the Group Management according to Securitas share-based incentive scheme in March 2020 are detailed in the table below. BOARD OF DIRECTORS’ AND GROUP MANAGEMENT’S HOLDINGS OF SECURITAS SERIES A AND B SHARES1 A shares A shares B shares B shares B shares Allocation 2019 2018 2019 8 2018 8 March 2020 9 Marie Ehrling, Chairman of the Board – – 10 000 7 000 – Carl Douglas, vice Chairman2 12 642 600 12 642 600 27 190 000 27 190 000 – Ingrid Bonde – – 2 600 2 600 – John Brandon – – 10 000 10 000 – Anders Böös – – 25 000 25 000 – Fredrik Cappelen – – 4 000 4 000 – Sofia Schörling Högberg 3 4 500 000 4 500 000 10 419 039 12 076 798 – Dick Seger – – 26 26 – Magnus Ahlqvist, President and CEO 4 – – 111 430 108 989 18 274 Bart Adam – – 43 555 37 027 17 213 Martin Althén – – 3 478 1 544 4 332 Helena Andreas6 – – 2 045 – – William Barthelemy – – 70 859 62 109 10 630 Tony Byerly 6 – – 0 – 0 Jorge Couto 6 – – 0 – 4 498 Santiago Galaz – – 91 670 238 406 40 407 Peter Karlströmer 6 – – 6 196 – – Andreas Lindback 6 – – 0 – 2 450 Jan Lindström – – 13 230 11 395 4 002 Aimé Lyagre – – 19 952 26 510 9 794 Marc Pissens – – 37 700 62 022 9 400 Luis Posadas5 – – – 45 149 – Brian Riis Nielsen 6 – – 0 – 6 510 Frida Rosenholm – – 464 0 1 631 Henrik Zetterberg7 – – 4 091 2 544 4 853 Total holdings 17 142 600 17 142 600 38 065 335 39 911 119 133 994 1 Information refers to shareholdings as of December 31, 2019 and 2018. 7 H olds in addition to B-shares according to the table, 45 000 share options regarding acquisition of 2 Through family and Investment AB Latour. Securitas series B-shares, issued by Melker Schörling AB and Investment AB Latour. 3 T hrough family and Melker Schörling AB. 8 H oldings as of December 31 excluding potential allocation of shares according to Securitas sharebased 4 H olds in addition to B-shares according to the table, 200 000 share options regarding acquisition of incentive scheme (see footnote 9 below). Securitas series B-shares, issued by Melker Schörling AB and Investment AB Latour. 9 Actual allocation of shares in March 2020 according to Securitas share-based incentive scheme 2018, 5 Has left the Group Management during 2019, why actual holdings is not applicable. including shares corresponding to dividend decided related to potential allocation of shares during 2019. 6 Has joined the Group Management during 2019, why earlier holdings is not applicable. The gross number of allocated shares is stated, of which part of the shares may have been sold to cover tax on the benefit. Other holdings of Securitas Series B shares in March 2020 are not included. NOTE 10 Segment reporting Segment structure electronic security, fire and safety services and corporate risk management. In The Group’s operations are divided into three reportable segments: addition there is a specialized unit for global client contracts. In total, the orgaSecurity Services North America, Security Services Europe and Security nization has approximately 730 branch managers and 124 000 employees. Services Ibero-America. All segments apply the accounting principles explained in note 2. The Security Services Ibero-America segment reporting follows the format of Securitas’ financial model, which Security Services Ibero-America provides protective services in nine Latin provides a foundation for financial planning and reporting from branch office American countries as well as in Portugal and Spain in Europe. Airport level up to the Board of Directors. Acquisitions of subsidiaries are therefore security is offered in seven countries. The offered services include on-site, excluded from the operating cash flow. All material acquisitions are stated mobile and remote guarding, electronic security, fire and safety services and at business segment level in the report of the Board of Directors under the corporate risk management. Security Services Ibero-America has a comheading Acquisitions and divestitures. bined total of approximately 160 branch managers and 64 000 employees. Security Services North America Other Security Services North America provides protective services in the US, Other includes all other operating segments as well as general administrative Canada and Mexico. The operations in the US are organized in four specialexpenses, expenses for head offices and other central expenses. All other operized units; Guarding, Electronic Security, Pinkerton Corporate Risk Manageating segments comprise the operations in Africa, the Middle East and Asia. ment and Critical Infrastructure Services. Guarding includes on-site, mobile SALES PER SEGMENT EMPLOYEES PER SEGMENT and remote guarding and the unit for global and national accounts, as well as Canada and Mexico. There are also specialized client segment units, such as █ Security █ Security Services aviation, healthcare, manufacturing and oil and gas. In total, there are approxiServices North North America 33% mately 700 branch managers and 121 000 employees. America 44% █ Security Services █ Security Europe 34% Security Services Europe Services Europe █ Security Services Security Services Europe provides protective services across Europe with 43% Ibero-America 17% █ Security Services █ Other 16% operations in 27 countries, whereof 15 countries provide airport security. The full range of protective services includes on-site, mobile and remote guarding, Ibero-America 12% █ Other 1% 98 Securitas Annual and Sustainability Report 2019 N O T E S A N D CO M M E N T S T O T H E CO N S O L I D AT E D F I N A N C I A L S TAT E M E N T S JANUARY – DECEMBER 20191 Note Security Security Security 1 Services Services Services Total 2 MSEK North America Europe Ibero-America Other segments Eliminations Group 3 Income 4 Sales, external 48 480 47 247 13 098 2 074 110 899 – 110 899 5 Sales, intra-group 19 1 1 2 23 -23 – 6 Total sales 48 499 47 248 13 099 2 076 110 922 -23 110 899 7 Organic sales growth, % 4 2 14 – – – 4 8 Operating income before amortization 2 3 003 2 582 614 -461 5 738 – 5 738 9 of which share in income of associated companies -11 – – 41 30 – 30 10 Operating margin, % 6.2 5.5 4.7 – 5.2 – 5.2 11 Amortization of acquisition related intangible assets -68 -159 -23 -21 -271 – -271 12 Acquisition related costs -99 43 -1 -5 -62 – -62 13 Items affecting comparability -119 -54 -3 -33 -209 – -209 14 Operating income after amortization 2 717 2 412 587 -520 5 196 – 5 196 15 Financial income and expenses – – – – – – -578 16 Income before taxes – – – – – – 4 618 17 Taxes – – – – – – -1 256 18 Net income for the year – – – – – – 3 362 19 20 Operating cash flow 21 Operating income before amortization 3 003 2 582 614 -461 5 738 – 5 738 22 Investments in non-current 23 tangible and intangible assets -817 -1 487 -410 -296 -3 010 – -3 010 24 Reversal of depreciation2 627 1 418 472 173 2 690 – 2 690 25 Change in operating capital employed -467 263 -30 -282 -516 – -516 26 Cash flow from operating activities 2 346 2 776 646 -866 4 902 – 4 902 27 Cash flow from operating activities, % 78 108 105 – – – 85 28 29 Capital employed and financing 30 Operating non-current assets 2 803 5 002 923 1 001 9 729 – 9 729 31 Accounts receivable 6 690 6 530 2 713 300 16 233 -113 16 120 32 Other assets 3 609 1 667 534 2 134 7 944 -162 7 782 33 Other liabilities -6 169 -9 274 -2 044 -3 319 -20 806 275 -20 531 34 Total operating capital employed 6 933 3 925 2 126 116 13 100 – 13 100 35 Operating capital employed as % of sales 14 8 16 – – – 12 36 Goodwill 11 480 8 692 1 477 508 22 157 – 22 157 37 Acquisition related intangible assets 771 629 33 130 1 563 – 1 563 38 Shares in associated companies 18 38 – 264 320 – 320 39 Total capital employed 19 202 13 284 3 636 1 018 37 140 – 37 140 40 Return on capital employed, % 15 20 18 – – – 15 41 Net debt – – – – – – 17 541 42 Shareholders’ equity – – – – – – 19 599 43 Total financing – – – – – – 37 140 44 Net debt equity ratio, multiple – – – – – – 0.89 45 46 Assets and liabilities 47 Non-interest-bearing assets 25 371 22 558 5 680 2 498 56 107 -275 55 832 48 Unallocated non-interest-bearing assets 3 – – – – – – 1 839 49 Unallocated interest-bearing assets – – – – – – 4 519 50 Total assets – – – – – – 62 190 51 Shareholders’ equity – – – – – – 19 599 52 Non-interest-bearing liabilities 6 169 9 274 2 044 854 18 341 -275 18 066 53 Unallocated non-interest-bearing liabilities3 – – – – – – 2 465 54 Unallocated interest-bearing liabilities – – – – – – 22 060 55 Total liabilities – – – – – – 42 591 56 Total shareholders’ equity and liabilities – – – – – – 62 190 57 58 1 S ecuritas has adopted IFRS 16 Leases as of January 1, 2019. As a consequence, certain lines in the consolidated financial statements and segment overviews as well as key ratios are not comparable with the preceding year. For further information refer to note 41. 59 2 Depreciation and amortization of tangible and non-acquisition related intangible assets per segment are specified on the line Reversal of depreciation in the statement of cash flow above. Further information regarding depreciation and amortization is provided in note 13. 60 3 Included in Other in the table Capital employed and financing. 61 Securitas Annual and Sustainability Report 2019 99 N O T E S A N D CO M M E N T S T O T H E CO N S O L I D AT E D F I N A N C I A L S TAT E M E N T S JANUARY – DECEMBER 2018 Security Security Security Services Services Services Total MSEK North America Europe Ibero-America Other segments Eliminations Group Income Sales, external 42 360 45 040 12 313 1 754 101 467 – 101 467 Sales, intra-group 6 – 2 1 9 -9 – Total sales 42 366 45 040 12 315 1 755 101 476 -9 101 467 Organic sales growth, % 6 4 12 – – – 6 Operating income before amortization1 2 589 2 511 550 -346 5 304 – 5 304 of which share in income of associated companies -9 0 – 40 31 – 31 Operating margin, % 6.1 5.6 4.5 – 5.2 – 5.2 Amortization of acquisition related intangible assets -54 -158 -30 -18 -260 – -260 Acquisition related costs -84 -35 – -1 -120 – -120 Items affecting comparability -155 -268 – -32 -455 – -455 Operating income after amortization 2 296 2 050 520 -397 4 469 – 4 469 Financial income and expenses – – – – – – -441 Income before taxes – – – – – – 4 028 Taxes – – – – – – -1 007 Net income for the year – – – – – – 3 021 Operating cash flow Operating income before amortization 2 589 2 511 550 -346 5 304 – 5 304 Investments in non-current tangible and intangible assets -478 -1 169 -274 -267 -2 188 – -2 188 Reversal of depreciation1 368 917 286 122 1 693 – 1 693 Change in operating capital employed -660 -603 -235 -139 -1 637 – -1 637 Cash flow from operating activities 1 819 1 656 327 -630 3 172 – 3 172 Cash flow from operating activities, % 70 66 59 – – – 60 Capital employed and financing Operating non-current assets 1 429 3 094 660 804 5 987 – 5 987 Accounts receivable 6 081 6 722 2 630 264 15 697 -94 15 603 Other assets 3 286 1 538 552 1 684 7 060 -1 7 059 Other liabilities -5 865 -9 177 -1 937 -2 566 -19 545 95 -19 450 Total operating capital employed 4 931 2 177 1 905 186 9 199 – 9 199 Operating capital employed as % of sales 11 5 15 – – – 9 Goodwill 10 784 8 469 1 468 340 21 061 – 21 061 Acquisition related intangible assets 588 734 55 81 1 458 – 1 458 Shares in associated companies 192 37 – 223 452 – 452 Total capital employed 16 495 11 417 3 428 830 32 170 – 32 170 Return on capital employed, % 16 23 17 – – – 15 Net debt – – – – – – 14 513 Shareholders’ equity – – – – – – 17 657 Total financing – – – – – – 32 170 Net debt equity ratio, multiple – – – – – – 0.82 Assets and liabilities Non-interest-bearing assets 22 360 20 594 5 365 1 853 50 172 -95 50 077 Unallocated non-interest-bearing assets2 – – – – – – 1 543 Unallocated interest-bearing assets – – – – – – 3 849 Total assets – – – – – – 55 469 Shareholders’ equity – – – – – – 17 657 Non-interest-bearing liabilities 5 865 9 177 1 937 423 17 402 -95 17 307 Unallocated non-interest-bearing liabilities2 – – – – – – 2 143 Unallocated interest-bearing liabilities – – – – – – 18 362 Total liabilities – – – – – – 37 812 Total shareholders’ equity and liabilities – – – – – – 55 469 1 Depreciation and amortization of tangible and non-acquisition related intangible assets per segment are specified on the line Reversal of depreciation in the statement of cash flow above. Further information regarding depreciation and amortization is provided in note 13. 2 Included in Other in the table Capital employed and financing. 100 Securitas Annual and Sustainability Report 2019 N O T E S A N D CO M M E N T S T O T H E CO N S O L I D AT E D F I N A N C I A L S TAT E M E N T S GEOGRAPHICAL INFORMATION1 Items affecting comparability Note Total sales from Non-current Items affecting comparability consists of two major parts. The first is the 1 external clients2 assets3 cost savings program in Security Services Europe that was executed in 2 MSEK 2019 2018 2019 2018 the second half of 2018. The total cost during 2018 amounted to MSEK 3 -268 and mainly relate to organizational restructuring charges with the US 44 558 38 728 14 120 12 341 4 bulk relating to staff-related items. During 2019 no additional costs have Sweden1 5 061 4 973 2 269 1 525 5 been recognized in the statement of income. All other countries 4 61 280 57 766 17 286 15 056 6 The second part is in relation to two major transformation programs Total countries 110 899 101 467 33 675 28 922 7 for the further digitization of the company. The first program relates to Non-current assets the global IS/IT foundation throughout the Group. The second program 8 not listed by country3 – – 1 449 1 496 is driving business transformation of Security Services North America. 9 Total non-current assets – – 35 124 30 418 Related to these two programs, MSEK -209 (-187) has been recognized 10 1 Geographical information related to sales and non-current assets is disclosed for Sweden (which is as items affecting comparability in the income statement, of which MSEK 11 Securitas’ country of domicile) and for all individual countries where the sales or non-current assets exceed 10 percent of the total amount for the Group. -119 (-155) relate to Security Services North America and MSEK -90 12 2 B ased on the location of sales offices and corresponds in all material aspects to the geographical (-32) to the other segments. Costs relate primarily to the impairment 13 location of the clients. of assets, organizational restructuring charges and other non-recurring 14 3 Financial instruments, deferred tax assets and post-employment benefit assets are not specified by country. These are instead reported on the line Non-current assets not listed by country. items. 15 4 Including elimination of intra-group sales. ITEMS AFFECTING COMPARABILITY 16 17 MSEK 2019 2018 NOTE 11 Operating income IS/IT transformation programs -209 -187 18 19 Cost savings program, Security Services Europe – -268 Statement of income 20 Total items affecting comparability -209 -455 The table below illustrates the statement of income in summary classified 21 according to type of cost. 22 ITEMS AFFECTING COMPARABILITY ALLOCATED PER FUNCTION 23 MSEK 2019 2018 24 MSEK 2019 2018 Total sales 110 899 101 467 25 Production expenses – -39 26 Selling and administrative expenses -209 -416 Other operating income 34 30 27 Total items affecting comparability allocated per function -209 -455 28 Salaries (note 12) -70 879 -64 550 29 Social benefits (note 12) -15 148 -13 982 30 Depreciation and amortization (notes 13, 18, 19, ITEMS AFFECTING COMPARABILITY ALLOCATED PER SEGMENT 31 20, 21) -2 961 -1 953 MSEK 2019 2018 32 Bad debt losses (note 26) -159 -137 Security Services North America -119 -155 33 Other operating expenses -16 590 -16 406 Security Services Europe -54 -268 34 Total operating expenses -105 737 -97 028 Security Services Ibero-America -3 – 35 Other -33 -32 36 Operating income 5 196 4 469 Total items affecting comparability 37 allocated per segment -209 -455 38 Exchange rate differences 39 Exchange rate differences included in operating income amounted to 40 MSEK -9 (9). CASH FLOW IMPACT FROM ITEMS AFFECTING COMPARABILITY 41 Exchange rate differences included in net financial items are specified MSEK 2019 2018 42 in note 14. Items affecting comparability according to the 43 statement of income -209 -455 44 Cash flow -303 -117 45 Adjustment for effect on cash flow from items affecting comparability -94 338 46 47 48 49 50 51 52 53 54 55 56 57 58 59 60 61 Securitas Annual and Sustainability Report 2019 101 N O T E S A N D CO M M E N T S T O T H E CO N S O L I D AT E D F I N A N C I A L S TAT E M E N T S Acquisition related costs CASH FLOW IMPACT FROM ACQUISITION RELATED COSTS The tables below specify what acquisition related costs are related to MSEK 2019 2018 and how they would have been classified per function in the statement of Acquisition related costs according income if the items had not been disclosed separately on the face of the to the statement of income -62 -120 statement of income. The tables also specify how the acquisition related Cash flow -80 -97 costs are split by segment. There is also a specification of the cash flow Adjustment for effect on cash flow from impact from acquisition related costs. acquisition related costs -18 23 ACQUISITION RELATED COSTS MSEK 2019 2018 Audit fees and reimbursements Restructuring and integration costs -18 -90 The table below specifies what audit fees and reimbursements are Transaction costs -24 -25 related to. Revaluation of deferred considerations 65 -5 MSEK 2019 2018 Step acquisitions -85 – PwC Total acquisition related costs -62 -120 Audit assignments1 59 42 Additional audit assignments1 3 6 ACQUISITION RELATED COSTS ALLOCATED PER FUNCTION Tax assignments1 16 12 Other assignments1,2 13 25 MSEK 2019 2018 Total PwC 91 85 Production expenses -5 -3 Selling and administrative expenses 1 -57 -117 Other auditors Total acquisition related costs allocated per function -62 -120 Audit assignments 4 4 Total 95 89 1 A ll transaction costs and revaluation of deferred considerations would have been classified as selling and administrative expenses in the statement of income if they had not been disclosed 1 Audit assignments amounts to MSEK 59 whereof MSEK 11 to PwC Sweden. Additional audit assignseparately on the face of the statement of income. ments amounts to MSEK 3 whereof MSEK 2 to PwC Sweden. Tax assignments amounts to MSEK 16 whereof MSEK 1 to PwC Sweden. Other assignments amounts to MSEK 13 whereof MSEK 1 to PwC Sweden. ACQUISITION RELATED COSTS ALLOCATED PER SEGMENT 2 In 2018, MSEK 19 pertained to advisory services regarding the acquisition of Kratos Public Safety and Security in North America. MSEK 2019 2018 Security Services North America -99 -84 Additional audit assignments mainly comprise review of the interim Security Services Europe 43 -35 report for the second quarter as well as review of financial reporting and Security Services Ibero-America -1 – internal control in additional countries than those included in the agreed Other -5 -1 audit plan. Tax assignments mainly comprise tax return compliance, Total acquisition related transfer pricing and questions related to tax legislation compliance. Other costs allocated per segment -62 -120 services mainly comprise services related to acquisitions, special IT audits and review of pension plans. NOTE 12 Personnel AVERAGE NUMBER OF YEARLY EMPLOYEES: DISTRIBUTION BETWEEN WOMEN AND MEN1 Women Men Total 2019 2018 2019 2018 2019 2018 Security Services North America 33 763 33 777 76 064 76 850 109 827 110 627 Security Services Europe 21 192 20 285 89 324 89 399 110 516 109 684 Security Services Ibero-America 9 419 9 052 53 641 53 429 63 060 62 481 Other 3 176 2 778 15 476 14 743 18 652 17 521 Total 67 550 65 892 234 505 234 421 302 055 300 313 In 2019, the number of Board members and Presidents was 102 (96), of whom 10 (7) were women. STAFF COSTS FOR BOARD OF DIRECTORS AND PRESIDENTS 2019 2018 Of which bonuses Social (of which Social (of which MSEK Salaries benefits pensions) Salaries benefits pensions) 2019 2018 Security Services North America 165 38 (20) 148 32 (18) 69 69 Security Services Europe 103 35 (12) 101 27 (9) 28 33 Security Services Ibero-America 48 4 (0) 45 4 (0) 13 10 Other 100 28 (8) 102 25 (7) 23 33 Total 416 105 (40) 396 88 (34) 133 145 1 Average number of yearly employees exclude employees in associated companies. A complete specification of the average number of yearly employees by country can be obtained from the Parent Company. Further information regarding the Group’s pensions and other long-term employee benefits is provided in note 32. 102 Securitas Annual and Sustainability Report 2019 N O T E S A N D CO M M E N T S T O T H E CO N S O L I D AT E D F I N A N C I A L S TAT E M E N T S STAFF COSTS FOR OTHER EMPLOYEES Note 2019 2018 1 Social (of which Social (of which 2 MSEK Salaries benefits pensions) Salaries benefits pensions) 3 Security Services North America 32 838 5 515 (482) 28 651 4 859 (429) 4 Security Services Europe 27 724 7 374 (866) 26 267 7 075 (793) 5 Security Services Ibero-America 8 302 1 949 (44) 7 848 1 814 (33) 6 Other 1 599 205 (76) 1 388 146 (55) 7 Total 70 463 15 043 (1 468) 64 154 13 894 (1 310) 8 9 10 TOTAL STAFF COSTS: BOARD OF DIRECTORS, PRESIDENTS AND OTHER EMPLOYEES 11 2019 2018 12 Social (of which Social (of which 13 MSEK Salaries benefits pensions) Salaries benefits pensions) 14 Security Services North America 33 003 5 553 (502) 28 799 4 891 (447) 15 Security Services Europe 27 827 7 409 (878) 26 368 7 102 (802) 16 Security Services Ibero-America 8 350 1 953 (44) 7 893 1 818 (33) 17 Other 1 699 233 (84) 1 490 171 (62) 18 Total 70 879 15 148 (1 508) 64 550 13 982 (1 344) 19 20 21 22 Securitas short-term share-based incentive scheme which runs over the period 2019 to 2021 participants will have to invest in Securitas series B shares at market price or nominate already vested 23 Securitas’ Annual General Meeting May 6, 2019 resolved on a share and or currently vesting shares under the short-term incentive schemes. For 24 cash bonus scheme, a similar incentive scheme that the Annual General Meeting 2018 resolved on. The participants in the scheme have a variable every share purchased or invested the company will grant so called per25 remuneration based on performance. Two thirds of the variable remuformance awards free of charge as per below: 26 neration/bonus will, according to the incentive scheme, be settled in cash • Category 1 (CEO): maximum five performance awards per each invested share. 27 the year after the performance year, while shares will be purchased for • 28 the remaining one third. The bonus criteria is based on individual perforCategory 2 (Group Management): maximum four performance awards 29 mance and/or the performance for the part of the Group that the individual per each invested share. • 30 is responsible for. For Securitas there are no other material costs than the Category 3 (other participants): maximum three performance awards 31 allotted bonus and related social benefits. per each invested share. 32 The share purchase in Securitas will be handled by trading on the 33 Nasdaq Stockholm exchange through a swap agreement. Shares are purThe performance condition is linked to the development of real change 34 chased corresponding to one third of the total achieved bonus amount. in earnings per share (if applicable excluding items affecting comparability) and the outcome is calculated yearly, whereby one third is measured 35 The purchased shares will be allotted to the participants in March, two against the outcome of the first year (2019), one third against the second 36 years following the performance year, given that they are still employed by the Group, except where an employee has left his/her employment due year (2020) and one third against the third year (2021). The award of 37 to retirement, death or long-term disability, in which case the employee shares is in addition to the fulfilment of performance conditions contin38 shall have a continued right to receive bonus shares. Securitas will not gent on the employment as per the vesting day in February 2022 and that 39 issue any new shares or similar due to this incentive scheme. The purpose the invested shares are kept during the whole vesting period. The number 40 is to replace cash bonus with shares in Securitas AB and thus increase the of shares awarded will also include compensation for dividend during the 41 employees’ ownership in Securitas. vesting period by increasing the number of shares awarded. 42 The incentive scheme includes 1 175 participants (1 325) that are The cost for the service rendered under the long-term incentive pro43 entitled to receive the share part according to the scheme. The total gram is spread over the vesting period and is based on a fair value on the 44 share-based remuneration for these participants amount to MSEK 121 grant date for Securitas series B share of SEK 161.40 per share for the 45 (133) and is accounted for as a share-based remuneration in equity. In program 2019 to 2021. The outcome for 2019 gives a potential total of 15 653 shares that would be allotted to the participants on vesting in 46 March 2020, shares in Securitas AB have been purchased corresponding 2022 (before any adjustment for leavers) which corresponds to a cost 47 to the value of the total share-based remuneration. The shares have been for Securitas of MSEK 2. The cumulative cost of the program for 2019 48 purchased through a swap agreement, based on the current market price at the time. The number of shares that have been purchased amount to a to 2021 thus also amounts to MSEK 2. For Securitas there are no other 49 total of 847 035 (1 003 835) at a value of MSEK 110 (147). The shares material costs than the allotted bonus and related social benefits. 50 will be allotted to the participants during the first quarter 2021, provided The share purchase in Securitas may be handled by a swap agreement 51 that they are still employed by the Group. with a third party. Any share-swap agreement will be separate from those 52 entered into for the short-term share-based incentive scheme. 53 Securitas long-term share-based incentive scheme 54 Securitas’ Annual General Meeting May 6, 2019 resolved on a new share55 COSTS FOR SHARE-BASED INCENTIVE SCHEMES: based bonus scheme, LTI 2019/2021, for the CEO, other members of PRESIDENTS AND OTHER EMPLOYEES 56 Group management and certain key employees, approximately up to 80 57 MSEK 2019 2018 participants. For the qualifying participants the scheme is intended to be Bonus costs for incentive schemes 1 123 133 58 an alternative to the short-term share-based incentive scheme described Social benefits for incentive schemes1 18 24 59 above. The new scheme will be based on different principles than the Total 141 157 60 existing and previous share-based incentive schemes and participants in 61 the new long-term scheme will not be entitled to participate in the short1 Whereof the cumulative cost for the long-term incentive progam 2019-2021 amounts to MSEK 2 term share-based incentive scheme. In order to participate in the scheme plus estimated social security MSEK 0. Securitas Annual and Sustainability Report 2019 103 N O T E S A N D CO M M E N T S T O T H E CO N S O L I D AT E D F I N A N C I A L S TAT E M E N T S NOTE 13 Depreciation and amortization NOTE 15 Taxes MSEK 2019 2018 Statement of income Software licenses 214 196 Other intangible assets 157 127 TAX EXPENSE Right-of-use assets 1 025 128 MSEK 2019 % 2018 % Buildings 15 15 Tax on income before taxes Machinery and equipment 1 279 1 227 Current taxes -1 200 -26.0 -962 -23.9 Total depreciation and amortization 2 690 1 693 Deferred taxes -56 -1.2 -45 -1.1 Total tax expense -1 256 -27.2 -1 007 -25.0 DEPRECIATION AND AMORTIZATION FOR THE YEAR IS DISTRIBUTED IN THE STATEMENT OF INCOME AS BELOW The Swedish corporate tax rate was 21.4 percent (22.0). The Group’s tax MSEK 2019 2018 rate was 27.2 percent (25.0). The tax rate adjusted for tax on items affectAmortization of intangible assets ing comparability was 27.2 percent (25.2). Production expenses 108 86 Selling and administrative expenses 263 237 DIFFERENCE BETWEEN STATUTORY SWEDISH TAX RATE AND ACTUAL TAX EXPENSE FOR THE GROUP Total amortization of intangible assets 371 323 MSEK 2019 % 2018 % Depreciation of right-of-use assets Income before taxes according to the statement of income 4 618 4 028 Production expenses 575 128 Tax based on Swedish tax rate -988 -21.4 -886 -22.0 Selling and administrative expenses 450 Difference between tax rate in Total depreciation of right-of-use assets 1 025 128 Sweden and weighted tax rates for foreign subsidiaries -240 -5.2 -154 -3.8 Depreciation of tangible non-current assets Tax related to previous years 1 0.0 -6 -0.2 Production expenses 981 668 Recognition of previously unvalued tax losses 50 1.1 49 1.2 Selling and administrative expenses 313 574 Revaluation of deferred tax Total depreciation of tangible non-current following a change in tax rate -1 0.0 -12 -0.3 assets 1 294 1 242 Other non-deductible items -97 -2.1 -86 -2.1 Other tax exempt items 19 0.4 88 2.2 Total depreciation and amortization 2 690 1 693 Actual tax expense -1 256 -27.2 -1 007 -25.0 Tax expense that may arise from dividends out of the distributable earnNOTE 14 Net financial items ings have not been provided for. If distributed the tax expense arising MSEK 2019 2018 would amount to MSEK 16 (16). Changes in deferred taxes between 2018 and 2019 are mainly Interest income from financial assets at fair value through profit or loss 13 28 explained by tax losses, acquisition related intangible assets and tax alloInterest income from loans and receivables 28 29 cations reserve. There are no unrecognized temporary differences related Total interest income 41 57 to subsidiaries or associated companies. Net monetary gain on remeasurement for hyperinflation 25 23 Other comprehensive income Revaluation of financial instruments – 2 TAX ON OTHER COMPREHENSIVE INCOME Other financial income 1 3 Total financial income 67 85 MSEK 2019 2018 Interest expenses from financial Deferred tax on remeasurements of defined liabilities at fair value through profit or loss -84 -71 benefit pension plans -11 25 Interest expenses from financial liabilities Deferred tax on remeasurement for hyperinflation – -15 designated as hedged item in a fair value hedge -82 -182 Deferred tax on cash flow hedges -9 -17 Interest expenses from derivatives Deferred tax on cost of hedging -4 12 designated for hedging -9 6 Deferred tax on net investment hedges 94 107 Interest expenses from lease liabilities -158 -10 Deferred tax on other Interest expenses from other financial liabilities at comprehensive income 70 112 amortized cost -284 -247 Total interest expenses -617 -504 Revaluation of financial instruments -1 – Other financial expenses -26 -22 Exchange rate differences, net1 -1 0 Total financial expenses -645 -526 Net financial items -578 -441 1 Exchange rate differences included in operating income are reported in note 11. 104 Securitas Annual and Sustainability Report 2019 N O T E S A N D CO M M E N T S T O T H E CO N S O L I D AT E D F I N A N C I A L S TAT E M E N T S Balance sheet Note 1 CURRENT TAX ASSETS / LIABILITIES DEFERRED TAX ASSETS CHANGE ANALYSIS 2 MSEK 2019 2018 MSEK 2019 2018 3 Current tax assets 922 581 Opening balance deferred tax assets 1 267 1 161 4 Current tax liabilities 1 621 1 362 Change due to: 5 Current tax assets / liabilities, net -699 -781 Deferred tax recognized in the statement of 6 income 870 99 7 Changed tax rate -8 -18 DEFERRED TAX ASSETS WERE ATTRIBUTABLE TO 8 Acquisitions 1 -10 MSEK 2019 2018 9 Recognized in other comprehensive income – -5 10 Pension provisions and employee-related liabilities 602 595 Translation differences 6 40 11 Lease liabilities 896 – Closing balance deferred tax assets 2 136 1 267 12 Tax loss carryforwards 108 158 Change during the year 869 106 13 Acquisition related intangible assets 50 68 14 Machinery and equipment 129 104 DEFERRED TAX LIABILITIES CHANGE ANALYSIS 15 Other temporary differences 351 342 MSEK 2019 2018 16 Total deferred tax assets 2 136 1 267 Opening balance deferred tax liabilities 877 1 185 17 Whereof deferred tax assets expected to be used within 12 months 829 776 Change due to: 18 Net accounting1 -1 218 -306 Deferred tax recognized in the statement of 19 Total deferred tax assets income 898 162 20 according to the balance sheet 918 961 Changed tax rate -7 -4 21 Acquisitions 51 75 22 DEFERRED TAX LIABILITIES WERE ATTRIBUTABLE TO Recognized in other comprehensive income – -11 23 MSEK 2019 2018 Reclassification – -546 24 Translation differences 23 16 25 Pension provisions and employee-related liabilities 57 49 Closing balance deferred tax liabilities 1 842 877 26 Acquisition related intangible assets 464 450 Change during the year 965 -308 27 Right-of-use assets 877 – Machinery and equipment 48 46 28 Other temporary differences 396 332 29 Total deferred tax liabilities 1 842 877 30 Whereof deferred tax liabilities 31 expected to be used within 12 months 248 237 32 Net accounting1 -1 218 -306 33 Total deferred tax liabilities 34 according to the balance sheet 624 571 35 Deferred tax assets / liabilities, net 294 390 36 1 Deferred tax assets and liabilities are reported in the balance sheet partly on a net basis after 37 considering the set-off possibilities. 38 39 DEFERRED TAX ASSETS CHANGE ANALYSIS PER CATEGORY IN 2019 40 Deferred tax 41 recognized in the Recognized in 42 Opening statement of Changed other compre­ Translation Closing 43 MSEK balance income tax rate Acquisitions hensive income differences balance 44 Pension provisions and employee-related liabilities 595 7 -5 1 -5 9 602 45 Lease liabilities – 896 – – – – 896 46 Tax loss carryforwards 158 -43 -1 – – -6 108 47 Acquisition related intangible assets 68 -18 – – – – 50 48 Machinery and equipment 104 21 – – – 4 129 49 Other temporary differences 342 7 -2 – 5 -1 351 50 Total deferred tax assets 1 267 2 136 51 Change during the year 870 -8 1 – 6 869 52 53 54 55 56 57 58 59 60 61 Securitas Annual and Sustainability Report 2019 105 N O T E S A N D CO M M E N T S T O T H E CO N S O L I D AT E D F I N A N C I A L S TAT E M E N T S DEFERRED TAX LIABILITIES CHANGE ANALYSIS PER CATEGORY IN 2019 Deferred tax Recognized in Opening recognized in the Changed other compre­ Translation Closing MSEK balance statement of income tax rate Acquisitions hensive income differences balance Pension provisions and employee-related liabilities 49 6 -3 – – 5 57 Acquisition related intangible assets 450 -24 -4 49 – -7 464 Right-of-use assets – 877 – – – – 877 Machinery and equipment 46 -1 – – – 3 48 Other temporary differences 332 40 – 2 – 22 396 Total deferred tax liabilities 877 1 842 Change during the year 898 -7 51 – 23 965 Tax loss carryforwards Tax loss carryforwards relate primarily to subsidiaries in Germany, Turkey Deferred tax assets related to tax losses are accounted for when it is and Singapore. The Group´s total tax loss carryforwards on December 31, probable that they can be utilized by future profits. As of December 31, 2019 amounted to MSEK 1 183 (1 352). These tax loss carryforwards 2019, tax loss carryforwards for which deferred tax assets had been expire as follows: recognized amounted to MSEK 382 (572) and deferred tax assets related to the tax losses amounted to MSEK 108 (158). Tax losses can be used to TAX LOSS CARRYFORWARDS reduce future taxable income and tax payments. 2020 15 2021 13 2022 24 2023346 Unlimited duration 785 Total tax loss carryforwards 1 183 NOTE 16 Acquisitions and divestitures of subsidiaries Acquisition calculations are subject to final adjustment up to one year after the date of acquisition. For further information refer to note 4. Acquisition Purchase Acquired / related Shares in Operating Total Share­ price paid / divested Enterprise intangible associated capital capital holders’ MSEK received6 net debt value Goodwill assets companies employed employed equity Total Global Elite Group, the US3 -191 28 -163 123 70 – -30 163 – 163 Allcooper Group, the UK 3 -65 6 -59 31 26 – 2 59 – 59 Staysafe, Australia 3 -84 1 -83 126 57 – -100 83 – 83 MSM Security Services, the US3 -6 – -6 42 61 – -97 6 – 6 Other acquisitions and divestitures1,3 -142 4 -138 108 118 -176 -25 25 113 4 138 Adjustments 2,3 -45 – -45 -1 – – 112 111 -66 5 45 Total acquisitions and divestitures -533 39 -494 429 332 -176 -138 447 47 494 Liquid funds according to acquisition analyses 47 Total effect on Group’s liquid funds -486 1 Related to other acquisitions and divestitures for the period: Iverify (step acquisition), the US, Nortrax 3 Deferred considerations have been recognized mainly based on an assessment of the future profitVeg og Trafikk, Norway, Wachund Schließgesellschaft Hof Inh. I Müller, Germany, Securitas Interim ability development in the acquired entities for an agreed period. The net of new deferred consid(divestiture), Cezzam, France, 4CS Security (contract portfolio), Austria, Instalfogo, Portugal and erations, payments made from previously recognized deferred considerations and revaluation of Beijing Saikudasi Consultancy Management, China. deferred considerations was MSEK 147. Total deferred considerations, short-term and long-term, in 2 Related to updated previous year acquisition calculations and adjustments for the following entities: the Group’s balance sheet amount to MSEK 425. WHD Wachdienst Heidelberg, Germany, Automatic Alarm, France, Services in Safety, Belgium, 4 Income statement amounts to MSEK 113 and retained earnings to MSEK 0. Pronet, DAK, Sensormatic, Turkey, PSGA, Australia. Related also to deferred considerations paid in 5 Income statement amounts to MSEK -66 and retained earnings to MSEK 0. Sweden, Germany, France, Austria, Czech Republic, Australia, China and Hong Kong. 6 No equity instruments have been issued in connection with the acquisitions. 106 Securitas Annual and Sustainability Report 2019 N O T E S A N D CO M M E N T S T O T H E CO N S O L I D AT E D F I N A N C I A L S TAT E M E N T S The following definitions are used in the tables below Acquisition of the business in Allcooper Group, the UK Note Securitas has acquired all shares in the electronic security company All1 Full year sales: What the contribution to total sales would have been if cooper Group in the United Kingdom. Allcooper Group, founded in 1987, 2 the acquisition had been consolidated from January 1, 2019. specializes in the installation, maintenance and monitoring of a wide range 3 of security and fire systems. It operates from bases in Gloucestershire, Contribution to total sales: What the acquisition has contributed to total 4 the West Midlands and London with around 100 employees. Allcooper’s sales for the year. 5 expertise in electronic security and its portfolio of long-term customers will provide excellent support in Securitas’ pursuit of its strategic objectives. 6 Full year net income: What the contribution to net income would have The acquisition was consolidated in Securitas as of April 1, 2019. Goodwill, 7 been if the acquisition had been consolidated from January 1, 2019. which amounts to MSEK 31 is mainly related to operational expansion. The 8 acquisition is included in the segment Security Services Europe. 9 Contribution to net income: What the acquisition has contributed to net 10 income for the year. SUMMARY BALANCE SHEET AS OF ACQUISITION DATE APRIL 1, 2019 11 Fair value 12 Acquisition of the business in Global Elite Group, the US MSEK acquisition balance 13 Securitas Transport Aviation Services USA has acquired Global Elite Operating non-current assets 9 14 Group, a leading security services provider to the aviation industry in the Accounts receivable 8 15 US. Global Elite Group is based in Garden City, New York, and specializes in providing high level security services to various airlines, airports and Other assets 10 16 airport related customers. The customer base consists of more than 60 Other liabilities -18 17 commercial airlines and numerous general aviation clients. The growth Contingent considerations1 -7 18 pattern in the company has been solid over the years. The number of Total operating capital employed 2 19 employees is approximately 1 050. Goodwill from the acquisition 31 20 The company will strengthen and complement Securitas current aviaAcquisition related intangible assets 26 21 tion organization, and the combined network, footprint, licenses and Total capital employed 59 22 know-how will increase the value we bring to existing and new customers. Net debt 6 23 The acquisition was consolidated in Securitas as of January 10, 2019. Total acquired net assets 65 24 Goodwill, which amounts to MSEK 123 is mainly related to operational 25 expansion. The acquisition is included in the segment Security Services Purchase price paid -65 26 North America. Liquid funds in accordance with acquisition analysis 6 27 SUMMARY BALANCE SHEET AS OF ACQUISITION DATE JANUARY 10, 2019 Total impact on the Group’s liquid funds -59 28 Fair value 1 Contingent consideration has been recognized mainly based on assessment of the profitability 29 MSEK acquisition balance development of an agreed period. The recognized amount is the maximum amount of the final 30 outcome of the payment. Operating non-current assets 7 31 Accounts receivable 40 OTHER DISCLOSURES ALLCOOPER GROUP, THE UK 32 Other assets 28 Acquired share, % 100 33 Other liabilities -54 Full year sales, MSEK 88 34 Contingent considerations1 -51 Contribution to total sales, MSEK 56 35 Total operating capital employed -30 Full year net income, MSEK 4 36 Goodwill from the acquisition 123 Contribution to net income, MSEK 2 37 Acquisition related intangible assets 70 Provision for bad debt included in accounts receivable, MSEK 0 38 Total capital employed 163 Transaction costs, MSEK 1 39 Net debt 28 40 Total acquired net assets 191 41 42 Purchase price paid -191 43 Liquid funds in accordance with acquisition analysis 36 44 Total impact on the Group’s liquid funds -155 45 1 C  ontingent consideration has been recognized mainly based on assessment of the profitability 46 development of an agreed period. The recognized amount is the maximum amount of the final 47 outcome of the payment. 48 49 OTHER DISCLOSURES GLOBAL ELITE GROUP, THE US 50 Acquired share, % 100 51 Full year sales, MSEK1 290 52 Contribution to total sales, MSEK 350 53 Full year net income, MSEK 29 54 Contribution to net income, MSEK 28 55 Provision for bad debt included in accounts receivable, MSEK -1 56 Transaction costs, MSEK 9 57 1 As per pressrelease estimate. 58 59 60 61 Securitas Annual and Sustainability Report 2019 107 N O T E S A N D CO M M E N T S T O T H E CO N S O L I D AT E D F I N A N C I A L S TAT E M E N T S Acquisition of the business in Staysafe, Australia SUMMARY BALANCE SHEET AS OF ACQUISITION DATE OCTOBER 5, 2019 Securitas is strengthening its client value proposition in the Australian Fair value security market through the acquisition of Staysafe, a leading alarm MSEK acquisition balance monitoring company in Australia. Founded in 1987 and based in MelOperating non-current assets 0 bourne, Staysafe is today one of the largest monitoring companies in Accounts receivable – Australia with 73 employees and 28 000 monitoring connections manOther assets – aged through two grade A1 monitoring centers located in Melbourne, Other liabilities – Victoria and Adelaide in South Australia. Since entering the Australian Contingent considerations1 -97 market in 2017 Securitas has experienced strong growth and expanded its geographical footprint and capabilities across the country. The acquisiTotal operating capital employed -97 tion was consolidated in Securitas as of April 4, 2019. Goodwill, which Goodwill from the acquisition 42 amounts to MSEK 126 is mainly related to operational and geographical Acquisition related intangible assets 61 expansion. The acquisition is included in the segment Other. Total capital employed 6 Net debt – SUMMARY BALANCE SHEET AS OF ACQUISITION DATE APRIL 4, 2019 Total acquired net assets 6 Fair value MSEK acquisition balance Purchase price paid -6 Operating non-current assets 2 Liquid funds in accordance with acquisition analysis – Accounts receivable 6 Total impact on the Group’s liquid funds -6 Other assets 2 1 Contingent consideration is conditioned on the renewal of certain customer contracts. The recogOther liabilities -26 nized amount is the maximum amount of the final outcome of the payment. Contingent considerations 1 -84 Total operating capital employed -100 OTHER DISCLOSURES MSM SECURITY SERVICES, THE US Goodwill from the acquisition 126 Acquired share, % – Acquisition related intangible assets 57 Full year sales, MSEK 140 Total capital employed 83 Contribution to total sales, MSEK 19 Net debt 1 Full year net income, MSEK 22 Total acquired net assets 84 Contribution to net income, MSEK 4 Provision for bad debt included in accounts receivable, MSEK – Purchase price paid -84 Transaction costs, MSEK 3 Liquid funds in accordance with acquisition analysis 1 Total impact on the Group’s liquid funds -83 Other acquisitions and divestitures 1 C  ontingent consideration has been recognized mainly based on assessment of the profitability development of an agreed period. The recognized amount is the maximum amount of the final outcome of the payment. SUMMARY BALANCE SHEET Fair value OTHER DISCLOSURES STAYSAFE, AUSTRALIA MSEK acquisition balance Acquired share, % 100 Operating non-current assets 4 Full year sales, MSEK 72 Accounts receivable 30 Contribution to total sales, MSEK 58 Other assets 20 Full year net income, MSEK 4 Other liabilities -62 Contribution to net income, MSEK 4 Deferred considerations1 -17 Provision for bad debt included in accounts receivable, MSEK – Total operating capital employed -25 Transaction costs, MSEK 4 Goodwill from the acquisitions2 108 Acquisition related intangible assets3 118 Acquisition of the business in MSM Security Services, the US Shares in associated companies -176 Securitas subsidiary Securitas Critical Infrastructure Services, Inc (SCIS), Total capital employed 25 under the independent direction of its Board, has acquired certain inspecNet debt 4 tion and background investigations assets of MSM Security Services. Total acquired/divested net assets 4 29 Securitas Critical Infrastructure Services, Inc is an independent US subsidiary of Securitas AB, which specializes in providing a wide range of Purchase price paid/received4 -142 security services to federal agencies, aerospace and defense contractors, Liquid funds in accordance with acquisition analyses 4 and federally regulated energy and aviation facilities. The transaction Total impact on the Group’s liquid funds -138 will expand SCIS’ federal background investigations business and is anticipated to add MUSD 15 (MSEK 140) of annual sales. The acquisition 1 Deferred considerations for acquisitions made during 2019 have been recognized mainly based on assessment of the future profitability development for an agreed period. The recognized amount is closed following regulatory approval and was consolidated in Securitas Securitas´ best estimate of the final outcome. Thus, no estimate of the range of outcomes has been as of October 5, 2019. Goodwill, which amounts to MSEK 42 is mainly calculated. Deferred consideration is linked to the future development of profitability in the acquired companies and the final outcome of the payment may consequently exceed the estimated amount. related to operational expansion. The acquisition is included in the seg2 Mainly related to acquisition of Iverify, the US, Cezzam, France, Beijing Saikudasi Consultancy Manment Security Services North America. agement, China. 3 Mainly related to acquisition of Iverify, the US, Cezzam, France, Beijing Saikudasi Consultancy Management, China. 4 P urchase price paid/received differs to total acquired/divested net assets due to an income statement effect from a step acquisition of MSEK 113. Transaction costs amount to MSEK 6. 108 Securitas Annual and Sustainability Report 2019 N O T E S A N D CO M M E N T S T O T H E CO N S O L I D AT E D F I N A N C I A L S TAT E M E N T S Adjustments and payments of deferred considerations Impairment testing Note For the purpose of impairment testing, assets are grouped at the low1 SUMMARY BALANCE SHEET est levels for which there are separately identifiable cash flows (Cash 2 Fair value MSEK acquisition balance Generating Unit), that is, before 2019 on country level and thereafter per 3 segment. The Group changed the level of impairment testing for goodwill 4 Operating non-current assets – from the country level to the segment level as a consequence of adopt5 Accounts receivable – ing IFRS 16, that resulted in that complete financial information that is 6 Other assets 3 reviewed and used for control is available only on the segment level. 7 Other liabilities 1 8 Deferred considerations 1 108 Goodwill and intangible assets with indefinite useful life 9 Total operating capital employed 112 Goodwill is tested on an annual basis for possible impairment. Securitas 10 Goodwill from the acquisitions 2 -1 also carries out impairment testing for other intangible assets for which 11 Acquisition related intangible assets – there is an indefinite useful life. Currently these assets are limited to MSEK 12 Total capital employed 111 16 (16) and relates to the consideration paid for the brand Securitas in one of the Group’s countries of operations. The annual impairment test of 13 Net debt – all Cash Generating Units (CGUs), which is required under IFRS, took place 14 Total acquired/divested net assets 3 111 during the third quarter of 2019 in conjunction with the business plan 15 process for 2020. During this year’s assessment a total number of 4 CGUs 16 Purchase price paid/received3 -45 were tested for impairment of goodwill. 17 Liquid funds in accordance with acquisition analyses – 18 Total impact on the Group’s liquid funds -45 Valuation methodology and material assumptions 19 1 Mainly related to payments and revaluation of deferred considerations for Automatic Alarm, France, Value in use is measured as expected future discounted cash flows and is 20 Microtech, Czech Republic, PSGA, Australia, Johnson & Thomson, Hong Kong. based upon a five year discounted cash flow model. The cash flows have 2 Mainly related to update of the acquisition calculation for WHD Wachdienst Heidelberg, Germany 21 and Pronet, Turkey. been calculated based on financial plans developed in each segment. The 3 P urchase price paid/received differs to total acquired/divested net assets due to revaluation of 22 financial plans are built upon the regular business plan for the next finandeferred consideration of MSEK -66. 23 cial year which has been ascertained by Group Management and has been 24 Transaction costs amount to MSEK 1. presented to the Board of Directors. The calculation of the value in use is based on certain material assump25 tions and assessments. The most significant of these relate to the organic 26 NOTE 17 Goodwill and impairment testing sales growth, the development of the operating margin, the change in 27 MSEK 2019 2018 operating capital employed, long-term growth rate as well as the relevant 28 WACC (Weighted Average Cost of Capital) for the valuation, that is, WACC 29 Opening balance 21 470 19 112 after tax used to discount the future cash flows. These assumptions and 30 Acquisitions and divestitures 429 1 214 judgments are also based on financial plans developed in each business 31 Translation differences and segment and are built upon the regular business plan for the next financial remeasurement for hyperinflation 674 1 144 32 year which has been ascertained by Group Management and presented to Closing accumulated balance 22 573 21 470 33 the Board of Directors. In addition to this, the assumptions and judgments 34 are based on each business segment growth and profitability level. Opening impairment losses -409 -393 35 In terms of long-term growth rate a rate of 2 percent for guarding serTranslation differences -7 -16 36 vices in mature markets is at present regarded as being a reasonable estiClosing accumulated impairment losses -416 -409 mate in view of the business areas’ historical organic growth rate and also 37 taking into consideration external estimates of the future. Freedonia for 38 Closing residual value 22 157 21 061 example, estimates that the market for guarding services in Europe and 39 North America will grow at an average rate of some 3 percent per annum 40 during the period 2015 to 2025. The market for integrated security solu41 GOODWILL ALLOCATED PER SEGMENT tions is estimated to grow faster than traditional guarding. In developing 42 MSEK 2019 2018 markets such as Eastern Europe, Latin America, Africa, the Middle East 43 Security Services North America 11 480 10 784 and Asia the growth rate for guarding services is estimated at 5 percent. 44 Security Services Europe 8 692 8 469 Since the CGUs consist of countries from both mature and developing 45 Security Services Ibero-America 1 477 1 468 markets the long-term growth rate for the CGU has been calculated as the 46 Other 508 340 weighted average of the mature or developing markets share of the seg47 Total goodwill 22 157 21 061 ment operating result. Assumptions relating to WACC are calculated indi48 vidually for each country and weighted to an average for each CGU based on the countries share of the segment operating result. 49 50 51 52 53 54 55 56 57 58 59 60 61 Securitas Annual and Sustainability Report 2019 109 N O T E S A N D CO M M E N T S T O T H E CO N S O L I D AT E D F I N A N C I A L S TAT E M E N T S The table below shows the assumptions and estimates that have formed NOTE 18 Acquisition related intangible assets1 the base for the impairment testing in summary and by segment. MSEK 2019 2018 Opening balance 3 439 2 971 Acquisitions and divestitures 332 499 Estimated growth rate beyond WACC Derecognition of fully amortized assets2 -204 -112 forecasted period, % WACC, % before tax, % Translation differences and 2019 remeasurement for hyperinflation 103 81 Security Services North America 2.0 6.6 8.6 Closing accumulated balance 3 670 3 439 Security Services Europe 2.3 6.5 8.0 Security Services Ibero-America 2.8 10.3 13.2 Opening amortization -1 981 -1 798 Other2 4.0 10.1 12.3 Reversal of amortization on derecognized assets2 204 112 Amortization for the year -271 -260 2018 Translation differences and remeasurement for hyperinflation -59 -35 Security Services North America1 2.0 7.0–12.1 9.1–15.4 Closing accumulated amortization -2 107 -1 981 Security Services Europe 1 2.0 4.9–20.9 5.8–25.8 Security Services Ibero-America 2.0–5.0 6.2–31.0 7.7–38.0 Closing residual value 1 563 1 458 Other2 2.0–5.0 7.1–22.1 8.2–27.2 1 The balance consists mainly of contract portfolios and related client relations. 1 Mexico and Eastern Europe is considered to have a higher growth rate beyond forecasted period 2 T he Group derecognizes fully amortized acquisition related intangible assets if a reliable estimate of (2.0–5.0%). These regions represent a minority of the respective segments, hence the growth rate future cash flows cannot be established. The net impact of such derecognition on the closing residual of the segments are reported as 2.0 %. value is nil. 2 The operations in Africa, the Middle East, Asia and Australia are included in Other. Impairment testing of goodwill and intangible assets with indefinite useful life The 2019 impairment test showed that none of the CGUs tested for impairment had a carrying amount that exceeded the recoverable amount. Thus no impairment losses have been recognized in 2019. No impairment losses of goodwill or other acquisition related intangible assets were recognized in 2018 either. Sensitivity analysis The following sensitivity analyses have been made of the estimates of value in use in connection with impairment testing, assumption by assumption: general reduction of 1 percentage point in the organic sales growth rate during the forecasting period; general reduction of 0.5 percentage points in the operating margin; general increase of 0.5 percentage points in the WACC and general decrease of the estimated growth after the forecasted period by 0.5 percentage points. A sensitivity analysis for changes in the assumptions used in the impairment testing has been established for all CGUs. For conducted sensitivity analyses, the conclusion is that none of the adjustments of assumptions stand alone would result in an impairment loss in any CGU. 110 Securitas Annual and Sustainability Report 2019 N O T E S A N D CO M M E N T S T O T H E CO N S O L I D AT E D F I N A N C I A L S TAT E M E N T S NOTE 19 Other intangible assets Note 1 Software licenses and similar assets Other intangible assets 1 2 MSEK 2019 2018 2019 2018 3 Opening balance 2 394 1 515 931 736 4 Acquisitions and divestitures 1 4 – – 5 Capital expenditures 498 415 256 226 6 Disposals / write-offs -141 -136 -26 -38 7 Reclassification 30 547 -2 1 8 Translation differences and remeasurement for hyperinflation 55 49 8 6 9 Closing accumulated balance 2 837 2 394 1 167 931 10 11 Opening amortization -1 530 -927 -345 -245 12 Acquisitions and divestitures 0 -4 – – 13 Disposals / write-offs 108 63 19 32 14 Reclassification -33 -427 5 -1 15 Amortization for the year -214 -196 -157 -127 16 Translation differences and remeasurement for hyperinflation -39 -39 -5 -4 17 Closing accumulated amortization -1 708 -1 530 -483 -345 18 19 Closing residual value 1 129 864 684 586 20 1 Mainly related to individual client contracts within Security Services Europe. 21 Furthermore the brand name Securitas in one of the Group’s countries of operations is included with MSEK 16 (16). 22 23 NOTE 20 Right-of-use assets 24 25 Other right-ofTotal right-of26 Buildings Vehicles use assets use assets 27 MSEK 2019 2019 2019 2019 28 Lease liability under IFRS 16 at January 1, 2019 (note 41) 2 965 644 46 3 655 29 New / terminated / changed lease contracts 353 405 11 769 30 Depreciation -613 -394 -18 -1 025 31 Translation differences 74 15 1 90 32 Closing balance 2 779 670 40 3 489 33 34 Expenses for short-term lease contracts – – – 296 35 Expenses for lease contracts of low value – – – 15 36 Principal payments for lease liabilities – – – -1 285 37 Interest expense payments for lease liabilities – – – -158 38 39 40 References to other notes 41 For further information regarding right-of-use assets, refer to: 42 Note 2 Accounting principles 43 Note 4 Critical estimates and judgments 44 Note 7 Financial risk management (maturity profile in table Liquidity report) 45 Note 13 Depreciation and amortization 46 Note 14 Net financial items 47 Note 15 Taxes Note 41 Adoption and impact of IFRS 16 Leases 48 49 50 51 52 53 54 55 56 57 58 59 60 61 Securitas Annual and Sustainability Report 2019 111 N O T E S A N D CO M M E N T S T O T H E CO N S O L I D AT E D F I N A N C I A L S TAT E M E N T S NOTE 21 Tangible non-current assets Buildings and land1 Machinery and equipment 2 MSEK 2019 2018 2019 2018 Opening balance 680 662 12 242 11 732 Acquisitions and divestitures – – 37 105 Capital expenditures – 12 1 333 1 724 Disposals / write-offs -53 -9 -789 -684 Reclassification to right-of-use assets (note 20)3 – -9 – -593 Other reclassification -2 -7 5 -522 Translation differences and remeasurement for hyperinflation 9 31 192 480 Closing accumulated balance 634 680 13 020 12 242 Opening depreciation -362 -338 -9 007 -8 547 Acquisitions and divestitures – – -20 -68 Disposals / write-offs 19 4 702 561 Reclassification to right-of-use assets (note 20)3 – 0 – 380 Other reclassification 3 3 -1 406 Depreciation for the year -15 -15 -1 279 -1 227 Depreciation for the year, right-of-use assets – -1 – -127 Translation differences and remeasurement for hyperinflation -4 -15 -123 -385 Closing accumulated depreciation -359 -362 -9 728 -9 007 Opening impairment losses -21 -20 – – Translation differences 0 -1 – – Closing accumulated impairment losses -21 -21 – – Closing residual value 254 297 3 292 3 235 1 The closing residual value of land included in buildings and land above was MSEK 57 (60). 2 Machinery and equipment comprise vehicles, equipment, security equipment (including alarm systems) and IT and telecom equipment. 3 Finance leases amounting to MSEK 222 according to IAS 17 were in 2018 included in buildings and land as well as in machinery and equipment. In this Annual Report, they have been reclassified to right-of-use assets. Refer to notes 20 and 41 for further information.  Interest-bearing financial NOTE 22 Shares in associated companies1 NOTE 23 non-current assets1 MSEK 2019 2018 MSEK 2019 2018 Opening balance 452 420 Derivatives with positive fair value, long-term Share in income of associated companies 30 31 Derivatives in fair value hedges2 162 166 Dividend -14 -18 Derivatives in cash flow hedges2 356 283 New issue / contributions 14 – Derivatives in net investment hedges2 -278 -56 Step acquisitions -176 – Other derivatives 3 -27 -39 Translation differences 14 19 Total derivatives with Closing balance2 320 452 positive fair value, long-term 213 354 Other items 4 224 145 1 A complete specification of associated companies can be obtained from the Parent Company. 2 Of which goodwill MSEK 143 (367) and acquisition related intangible assets MSEK 0 (16). Total interest-bearing financial non-current assets 437 499 Financial information associated companies 1 Further information regarding financial instruments is provided in note 7. 2 Related to derivatives designated for hedging. The EUR/USD cross currency interest rate swaps Summarized financial information regarding the Group’s associated comare bifurcated for hedging purposes. The EUR/SEK element, amounting to MSEK 356 (283), is accounted for under cash flow hedge accounting. The SEK/USD element, amounting to MSEK -278 panies is specified in the table below. The information is on 100 percent (-56), is accounted for under net investment hedge accounting. basis. 3 Cross currency interest rate swaps are split into different components, of which some elements are The Group’s share of capital in associated companies amounts to negative when the overall fair value is positive. 4 Related to loans and receivables. 17–49 percent. MSEK 2019 2018 NOTE 24 Other long-term receivables Sales 2 207 2 185 MSEK 2019 2018 Net income 30 43 Pension balances, defined contribution plans1 124 128 Assets1 602 1 171 Pension balances, defined benefit plans2 95 36 Liabilities1 248 783 Reimbursement rights3 181 138 1 T he previous associated company Iverify is not included 2019 since it was acquired in a step acquistion and consolidated in 2019. Other long-term receivables 481 481 Total other long-term receivables 881 783 1 Refers to assets relating to insured pension plans excluding social benefits. 2 Refers to assets related to pensions and other long-term employee benefit plans. Further information is provided in note 32. 3 Refers to assets relating to defined benefit pension plans where compensation is received from another party. 112 Securitas Annual and Sustainability Report 2019 N O T E S A N D CO M M E N T S T O T H E CO N S O L I D AT E D F I N A N C I A L S TAT E M E N T S NOTE 25 Inventories NOTE 27 Other current receivables Note 1 MSEK 2019 2018 MSEK 2019 2018 2 Material and consumables 470 434 Accrued sales income 3 424 3 224 3 Advance payments to suppliers 38 26 Prepaid expenses 1 233 1 149 4 Total inventories 508 460 Other accrued income 38 38 Insurance-related receivables 16 16 5 Value added tax 267 238 6 NOTE 26 Accounts receivable Other items 456 391 7 Total other current receivables 5 434 5 056 8 MSEK 2019 % 2018 % 9 Accounts receivable before deduction of provisions for bad debt losses 16 699 100 16 112 100 10 Provisions for bad debt losses -579 -3 -508 -3 Other interest-bearing 11 NOTE 28 current assets1 12 Total accounts receivable 16 120 97 15 604 97 MSEK 2019 2018 13 Opening balance provision Derivatives with positive fair value, short-term 14 for bad debt losses -508 -490 15 Derivatives in net investment hedges2 – 1 Provision for expected losses -268 -274 16 Other derivatives 3 13 16 Reversed provisions 109 127 17 Total derivatives with Actual losses 131 164 positive fair value, short-term 13 17 18 Acquisitions and divestitures -15 -15 Other interest-bearing current assets 121 104 19 Translation differences -28 -20 Total other interest-bearing current assets 134 121 20 Closing balance provision for 1 Further information regarding financial instruments is provided in note 7. 21 bad debt losses1 -579 -508 2 Related to derivatives designated for hedging. 22 3 Related to financial assets at fair value through profit or loss. 1 Expenses for bad debt losses amounted to MSEK 159 (137). 23 24 AGEING OF ACCOUNTS RECEIVABLE BEFORE DEDUCTION OF PROVISION FOR BAD DEBT LOSSES NOTE 29 Liquid funds1 25 26 MSEK 2019 % 2018 % MSEK 2019 2018 27 Overdue 1–30 days 3 282 20 3 255 20 Short-term investments2 2 078 1 598 28 Overdue 31–60 days 1 013 6 764 5 Cash and bank deposits3 1 870 1 631 29 Overdue 61–90 days 436 3 415 3 Total liquid funds 3 948 3 229 30 Overdue 91–180 days 366 2 459 3 1 L iquid funds include short-term investments with a maximum duration of 90 days that are readily 31 Overdue 181–365 days 162 1 146 1 convertible to a known amount of cash and subject to an insignificant risk of change in value. Liquid funds also include cash and bank deposits. 32 Overdue >365 days 383 2 367 2 2 Short-term investments refer to fixed interest rate bank deposits. 33 3 T he net position in Group country cash-pool accounts is reported as cash and bank deposits where Total overdue 5 642 34 5 406 34 34 netting reflects the legal structure of the arrangement. 35 SPECIFICATION OF PROVISION FOR BAD DEBT AS OF DECEMBER 31, 2019 36 AND 2018 NOTE 30 Shareholders’ equity 37 Accounts recei38 vable before deduction Provision Number of shares December 31, 2019 39 Expected of provisions for for bad debt MSEK loss rate, % bad debt losses losses Number of 40 shares MSEK 41 December 31, 2019 Current 0.14% 11 057 16 42 Series A 17 142 600 17 Up to 30 days past due 0.14% 3 282 4 43 More than 30 days past due 2.5% 1 013 25 Series B 347 916 297 348 44 More than 60 days past due 4.0% 436 18 Total number of shares/share capital 365 058 897 365 45 More than 90 days past due 8.5% 366 31 Less: Treasury shares -125 000 – 46 More than 180 days past due 63.0% 162 102 Total number of shares outstanding1 364 933 897 – 47 More than 365 days past due 100.0% 383 383 48 1 The quota value is SEK 1.00 per share. Total 16 699 579 49 The number of Series A shares is unchanged in relation to December 31, 50 December 31, 2018 2018. During the year, 125 000 Series B shares have been repurchased 51 Current 0.14% 10 706 15 as a hedge for the long-term incentive scheme. As of December 31, 2019 52 Up to 30 days past due 0.14% 3 255 5 there were no outstanding convertible debenture loans that could result 53 More than 30 days past due 2.5% 764 19 in any dilution of the share capital. 54 More than 60 days past due 4.0% 415 17 Each Series A share carries ten votes and each Series B share one vote. 55 More than 90 days past due 6.5% 459 30 This is the only difference between the two series of shares. 56 More than 180 days past due 38.0% 146 55 57 More than 365 days past due 100.0% 367 367 58 Total 16 112 508 59 60 61 Securitas Annual and Sustainability Report 2019 113 N O T E S A N D CO M M E N T S T O T H E CO N S O L I D AT E D F I N A N C I A L S TAT E M E N T S Shareholders with more than 10 percent of the votes Non-controlling interests The principal shareholders are Investment AB Latour with 10.9 percent The table below specifies the Group’s non-controlling interests: of the capital and 29.6 percent of the votes, and Melker Schörling AB with 4.1 percent of the capital and 10.7 percent of the votes. MSEK 2019 2018 Opening balance 25 21 Dividend Disposals / liquidations – 1 The Board of Directors propose a dividend to the shareholders of the Dividend -1 -2 Parent Company of SEK 4.80 per share, or a total of MSEK 1 752. The dividend to the shareholders for the financial year 2018, which was paid in Total transactions with non-controlling interests -1 -1 2019, was SEK 4.40 per share, or a total of MSEK 1 606. Share in net income 5 5 Share in other comprehensive income, Presentation of shareholders’ equity translation differences 1 0 According to IAS 1 a company should as a minimum present issued Total comprehensive income for the year 6 5 capital and other reserves in the balance sheet. Securitas has chosen to Closing balance 30 25 specify shareholders’ equity into further components as per below: • Share capital • Other capital contributed  Long-term liabilities • Other reserves NOTE 31 excluding provisions 1 • Retained earnings Share capital shows the registered share capital of the Parent Company. MSEK 2019 2018 There were no changes in the share capital in 2019. Repurchase of treaLong-term lease liabilities 2 610 116 sury shares that have not been cancelled has reduced retained earnings. Total long-term lease liabilities 2 610 116 In other capital contributed, the total amount of all transactions EMTN Nom MEUR 300, 2018 / 2025, Annual 1.25%2 3 143 3 066 Securitas AB has had with its shareholders is included. Transactions that EMTN Nom MEUR 350, 2017 / 2024, Annual 1.125%2 3 683 3 589 have taken place with shareholders are issued capital to premium. The EMTN Nom MEUR 350, 2016 / 2022, Annual 1.25%2 3 647 3 577 amount presented in this sub-component corresponds to capital received EMTN Nom MEUR 350, 2013 / 2021, Annual 2.625%2 3 721 3 707 (reduced by commission costs) in excess of par value of issued capital. EMTN Nom MUSD 105, 2019 / 2024, FRN Quarterly2 977 – There were no changes in other capital contributed in 2019. EMTN Nom MUSD 50, 2019 / 2024, FRN Quarterly2 465 – Other reserves show income and expense items that according to EMTN Nom MUSD 40, 2015 / 2021, FRN Quarterly2 373 357 certain standards should be recognized in other comprehensive income. EMTN Nom MUSD 40, 2015 / 2021, FRN Quarterly2 373 357 In the case of Securitas, other reserves consist of translation differences EMTN Nom MUSD 60, 2014 / 2021, FRN Quarterly2 559 536 attributable to the translation of foreign subsidiaries and associated comEMTN Nom MUSD 40, 2014 / 2020, FRN Quarterly2 – 358 panies according to IAS 21, the cost of hedging reserve and the cash flow Other long-term loans 91 195 hedge reserve. The amount in the hedging reserve will be transferred to Derivatives with negative fair value, long-term 3 184 116 the statement of income over the following six years. Total other long-term loan liabilities 17 216 15 858 Retained earnings corresponds to the accumulated profits earned Pensions balances, defined contribution plans 4 124 128 and losses incurred in total for the Group. Retained earnings also include Deferred considerations5 223 195 effects of the Group’s share-based incentive schemes, repurchase of Other long-term liabilities 14 13 treasury shares, remeasurements for hyperinflation and remeasurements Total other long-term liabilities 361 336 of post-employment benefits posted in other comprehensive income. Retained earnings are further reduced by dividend paid to shareholders of Total long-term liabilities 20 187 16 310 the Parent Company. Transactions with non-controlling interests are also 1 For further information regarding financial instruments, refer to note 7. 2 Issued by the Parent Company. recorded in retained earnings. 3 Related to derivatives designated for hedging with negative fair value. The EUR / USD cross currency interest rate swaps are bifurcated for hedging purposes. The EUR / SEK element, amounting Share-based incentive schemes to MSEK -119 (-67), is accounted for under cash flow hedge accounting. The SEK / USD element, amounting to MSEK 288 (165), is accounted for under net investment hedge accounting. Securitas’ share-based incentive schemes have had the following impact 4 Refers to liability for insured pension plan excluding social costs. on retained earnings: 5 Recognized at fair value. LONG-TERM LIABILITIES FALL DUE FOR PAYMENT AS FOLLOWS MSEK 2019 2018 MSEK 2019 2018 Swap agreement 2018 (2017)1 -147 -140 Maturity < 5 years 16 015 13 106 Share-based remuneration to employees 2019 (2018) 121 133 Maturity > 5 years 4 172 3 204 Non-vested shares 2017 (2016) 1 0 Total long-term liabilities 20 187 16 310 Total short-term incentive schemes -25 -7 Share-based remuneration to employees 20192 2 – Total long-term incentive scheme 2 – Repurchase of shares3 -21 – Total impact on retained earnings -44 -7 1 T he number of shares that have been hedged in this swap agreement amount to a total of 1 003 835 (999 831) and have been allotted to the participants during the first quarter 2020, provided that they were still employed by the Group at that time. Swap agreements are used for delivery of shares for the short-term incentive schemes. 2 Number of shares granted amounts to 15 653. The grant date value per share was SEK 161.40. The cumulative cost for the long-term incentive scheme 2019-2021 amounts to MSEK 2 plus estimated social security MSEK 0. 3 Number of shares repurchased amounts to 125 000. Repurchased shares services as a hedge for the long-term incentive scheme. 114 Securitas Annual and Sustainability Report 2019 N O T E S A N D CO M M E N T S T O T H E CO N S O L I D AT E D F I N A N C I A L S TAT E M E N T S NOTE 32 Provisions for pensions and similar commitments Note 1 Overview 2 The Group operates or participates in a number of defined benefit and defined contribution pension and other long-term employee benefit plans Diagram_BV_sid 109 / 1 Diagram_BV_sid 109 / 2 Diagram_BV_sid 109 / 3 Diagram_BV_sid 109 / 4 3 throughout the world. These plans are structured in accordance with local rules and practices. 4 5 The graphs below provide an overview of the Group’s defined benefit plans. 6 Defined benefit obligations Plan assets Pension costs Employer contributions 7 8 9 10 11 12 13 14 15 ■ Switzerland MSEK 1 542, 36% ■ Switzerland MSEK 1 413, 43% ■ Switzerland MSEK 64, 65% ■ Switzerland MSEK 63, 41% 16 ■ US MSEK 1 513, 35% ■ US MSEK 1 280, 39% ■ US MSEK 22, 22% ■ US MSEK 26, 17% 17 ■ Canada MSEK 525, 12% ■ Canada MSEK 407, 12% ■ Canada MSEK 13, 13% ■ Canada MSEK 8, 5% Other countries1 MSEK 759, 17% 18 ■ ■ Other countries MSEK 193, 6% 1 ■ Other countries MSEK 57, 37% 1 ■ Total MSEK 4 339 ■ Total MSEK 3 293 ■ Total MSEK 99 ■ Total MSEK 154 19 20 1 In total 18 countries. Most of these countries have unfunded plans. Further information is provided in the section Other countries below. 21 22 The table below shows a specification of the members in the Group’s The Group’s significant defined benefit plans are described below. 23 significant defined benefit plans, the plans’ duration and life expectancy 24 for the members. Switzerland 25 The Group’s Swiss operations participate in a plan that is a defined benDECEMBER 31, 2019 26 efit plan according to IAS 19 as a result of the residual risk described below. The Swiss operations have chosen to set up an own-foundation, 27 Switzerland US Canada which means that the foundation only covers employees of Securitas’ 28 Active members 2 186 134 189 Swiss operations. The plan is open to new employees of Securitas’ Swiss 29 Deferred members – 1 119 31 operations and benefits are being accrued under the plan. There are no 30 Pensioner members 193 4 011 218 terminated vested members in the plan since pension obligations are 31 Total number of members 2 379 5 264 438 transferred to the new employer upon termination. 32 The benefits provided constitute pension benefits, disability benefits 33 Duration of plans (years) 14 9 18 and death-in-service pension to previous employees and their spouses. 34 The pension benefits are normally paid as an annuity based on capital 35 Number of years current pensioners conversion rates that differ between men and women. The disability are expected to live beyond age 65: 36 benefits are calculated as a maximum of the pensionable salary and the Men 23 20 21 37 death-in-service benefit is in its turn calculated as a percentage of the disWomen 25 22 24 38 ability pension. Plan contributions are subject to legal minimum requirements. Rates increase with age and at least half must be paid by the 39 Number of years future pensioners employer while the employee pays the remainder. In the case of Securitas’ 40 currently aged 45 are expected to live Swiss subsidiary, the contributions in the plan are split equally with half 41 beyond age 65: paid by the company and the other half by the employee. Contributions 42 Men 24 21 22 payable to the plan are calculated each month as a fixed percentage based 43 Women 27 23 25 on the annual salary and age. 44 Although the contribution levels are defined, there is still a risk of a 45 shortfall in the pension fund as the minimum requirements for interest on 46 capital and conversion to pension need to be met. If there is a shortfall the 47 fund will take steps before asking the company for additional contribu48 tions. These steps could include changing plan benefits, lowering returns 49 credited to employees or changing the conversion rate, where possible. The fund has several years to balance a shortfall and payments will never 50 be required from the company for past periods. This means that the 51 actions can be planned and budgeted for. If additional contributions are 52 required from the company, this is also required from the employees. 53 The pension plan is covered under federal Swiss law that regulates 54 the so called second pillar of the pension system, the pension benefits 55 arising from employment. The pension plan is governed by the board 56 of the pension fund, which is made up of an equal number of employer 57 and employee representatives. The administration is run in-house by a 58 pension fund expert. The pension fund chooses how and where to invest 59 the assets. Swiss law limits both the total share of assets that should be 60 held in certain categories, and for individual asset holdings. The fund has 61 given mandates to manage the investments to three banks and retains Securitas Annual and Sustainability Report 2019 115 N O T E S A N D CO M M E N T S T O T H E CO N S O L I D AT E D F I N A N C I A L S TAT E M E N T S an investment committee, a sub-committee of the main fund board. The sector operates, hourly allowances must be paid to employees that can investment committee compares and reviews the performance of these be used for various elected benefits, such as health and disability, with mandates on a regular basis. In addition, the pension fund engages an unused portions of the allowances contributed to the 401(k) plan, without external independent advisor as support for the investment committee additional employer contributions. regarding investments. The latest funding valuation was carried out on December 31, 2018 Canada and resulted in a funding ratio of 107 percent based on a defined benefit The Group’s Canadian operations participate in one defined benefit penobligation for funding purposes of MCHF 117 and plan assets for funding sion plan as the named plan sponsor. This plan is a funded plan and is purposes of MCHF 125. closed to new entrants. Current active participants receive future benefit accruals. The US The benefits provided constitute pension payments to previous The Group’s US operations participate in two defined benefit pension employees and their spouses in the form of annuities or lump sums. In plans as the named plan sponsor. One of these plans is funded and the general, the benefits are monthly pensions based on the greater of (i) a other is unfunded. Both plans are closed to new entrants and any future formula based on earnings and years of service, and (ii) a minimum benefit benefit accrual. expressed as a dollar amount per month for each year of service. These The benefits provided constitute pension payments to previous benefits are defined with the only uncertainties being how long they will employees and their spouses in the form of annuities or lump sums. The be paid, whether benefits will be paid as a lump sum or as an annuity and particulars of the benefits and the benefit calculations depend on the if paid as lump sums, the prescribed discount rate used for the present original plan to which the plan participant belonged as the current funded value calculation. Plan contributions are determined annually or trienniplan is an amalgamation of several previous pension plans. The unfunded ally, if the plan is funded in excess of certain regulatory thresholds. plan is constituted by a formally adopted and documented plan plus The pension plan is subject to regulations under the Pension Benefits some individual arrangements that, for the purpose of this disclosure, are Act (Ontario) and the Income Tax Act (the “Acts”). Various parts of the treated as one plan. In general the benefits are monthly pensions based Acts are governed by the Financial Services Regulatory Authority of on earnings and years of service. These benefits are defined with the only Ontario and the Canada Revenue Agency. The plan also pays required uncertainties being how long they will be paid, whether benefits will be premiums to the Pension Benefits Guarantee Fund, which insures cerpaid as a lump sum or as an annuity and, in the case of the funded plan, tain pension plans up to certain limits in the case the sponsor defaults in also regarding investment return on plan assets. Plan contributions are respect of members reporting to work in Ontario, Canada, which is where determined annually. all active members currently are employed. The pension plans are covered under the US Employee Retirement The pension plan is governed by the Pension Committee, which is Income Security Act of 1974 (ERISA). Various parts of the ERISA legislamade up of Securitas US management representatives and local Canation are governed by the Department of Labor, the Internal Revenue Serdian representatives. Administration is outsourced to an external service vice and the Department of Treasury. The funded plan also pays required provider. Independent investment managers are utilized and evaluated by premiums to the Pension Benefit Guaranty Corporation, which insures independent investment advisors. private pension plans in the case the sponsor defaults. Under IAS 19 the funded ratio was 132 percent based on a defined Both pension plans are governed by the Executive Compensation and benefit obligation of MCAD 47 and plan assets of MCAD 62. The effect Benefits Review Committee (ECBRC), which is made up of local Securitas of the asset ceiling amounted to MCAD 5. A funding going-concern valuUS management representatives. Administration is outsourced to an ation would typically result in a higher funding percentage, since funding external service provider. Independent investment managers are utilized going-concern valuations are permitted to take into consideration future and evaluated by independent investment advisors. expected returns on the plan’s asset portfolio when setting the disSince the US pension plans are closed to new entrants and any future count rate. On a plan termination basis, the plan’s funded ratio would be benefit accrual and are in a run-off mode, a liability matching approach expected to be lower than both the funding going-concern and accountis applied by the ECBRC in order to de-risk the funded plan. The strating funded ratios as it would incorporate the use of lower interest rates egy is that as the funding percentage increases, the asset allocation will as well as other factors which would be assumed to come into play in the gradually shift from growth assets, such as equities, into fixed income event of a complete plan termination and settlement. investments. As a result, the plan has been substantially de-risked. The The Canadian operations also participate in a group savings plan, known plan is now over 95 percent invested in liability matching fixed income as the Group Retirement Savings Plan and Deferred Profit Sharing Plan investments. for the Employees of Securitas Canada. The plan is voluntary in nature. Under IAS 19 the funded ratio was 101 percent based on a defined Employees are eligible to join after six months of employment. Employee benefit obligation of MUSD 135 and plan assets of MUSD 137. A funding contributions can be made via payroll deduction or lump-sum and are valuation would result in a higher funding percentage since funding valuadirected to the Group Retirement Savings Plan. Employees can contribute tions are required by US law to be based on higher discount rates. On a plan up to the prescribed limit as per the Canada Revenue Agency. Securitas termination basis, the plan’s funded ratio would be expected to be lower contributes between one and five percent depending on the position of than both the minimum funding and accounting funded ratios as it would the employee. Employer contributions are directed to the Deferred Profit incorporate the use of lower interest rates as well as other factors which Sharing Plan and are fully vested upon two years of plan membership. would be assumed to come into play in the event of a complete plan termiThe Canadian operations offer a non-pension post-employment benefit nation and settlement. The book value under IAS 19 for the defined benefit plan that provides retiree medical, dental, and life insurance benefits to a obligation for the unfunded plan was MUSD 27 as of December 31, 2019. small group of employees at a client site where Securitas provide security The US operations also participate in a defined contribution plan, genservices. The plan is open to new entrants. The plan reimburses benefit erally known as a 401(k) plan. There are also a few multi-employer plans, expenses incurred by retirees and their dependents, including prescription which are governed by collective bargaining agreements. These plans, in drugs, semi-private hospital, nursing home, vision care, other medical care, most cases, require the employees to contribute to the plan, typically with and dental care. It also pays the premiums for life insurance in retirement. the employee contributions being partially matched by the employer. In The non-pension post-employment benefits are funded on a pay-as-yourelation to the overall workforce the take up rates are generally low, with go basis and no assets are set aside for the purposes of paying benefits voluntary participation rates of approximately five percent. In the federal under the plan. The costs for this plan are carried by Securitas who, in turn, government sector, Securitas’ subsidiary participates on a modified basis, are reimbursed by the client. This reimbursement right, amounting to subject to special rules, in the same 401(k). Securitas’ subsidiary in the MCAD 25 as per December 31, 2019, is accounted for under other longfederal government sector also participates in a few union-sponsored term receivables in note 24. Under IAS 19 the defined benefit obligation of defined contribution plans of a similar type. Due to the federal Service the non-pension post-employment benefit plan is MCAD 26. Contract Act, under which Securitas’ subsidiary in the federal government 116 Securitas Annual and Sustainability Report 2019 N O T E S A N D CO M M E N T S T O T H E CO N S O L I D AT E D F I N A N C I A L S TAT E M E N T S Norway Consolidated statement of income Note The Group’s Norwegian operations have in 2019 settled the majority The table below shows expense (+) and income (-) from the Group’s 1 of the defined benefit plans. The remaining defined benefit plans are an defined benefit and defined contribution plans. 2 unfunded plan that is insignificant for the Group as well as the AFP-plan. 3 New employees are covered by defined contribution plans. MSEK 2019 2018 4 The AFP-plan (collective pension agreement) is a multi-employer Current service cost 121 115 5 defined benefit plan covering all employees. Since the administrator is Administration cost 19 18 6 unable to separately identify the company’s share of the total plan assets Interest income or expense1 23 17 7 and total defined benefit obligations, it is accounted for on a defined contribution basis. Premiums paid to the plan in 2019 amounted to MNOK 27 Remeasurements of other long-term 8 employee benefits 0 -1 (25). The contribution for the next annual reporting period is expected to 9 Past service cost and gains be broadly in line with the current year’s premium. Securitas’ share of total 10 and losses arising from settlements2 -64 -26 premiums to the plan is approximately 0.4 percent. The latest available 11 Total pension costs for defined benefit plans 99 123 funding ratio in this plan, calculated under the plan rules, was 67 percent 12 Pension costs for defined contribution plans 1 409 1 221 (70) as of December 31, 2018. 13 Total pension costs 1 508 1 344 14 Other countries 1 Whereof MSEK 2 (1) is related to interest on the effect of the asset ceiling. 2 Related to settlement gains in Norway 2019 and 2018. 15 There are also less significant defined benefit arrangements in countries 16 other than those accounted for above. These plans are located in France (unfunded plans providing retirement indemnities under French law), The table below shows costs for defined benefit plans allocated per 17 Germany (unfunded arrangements for pensions and jubilee plans), the function. 18 Netherlands (funded and unfunded plans providing pension and jubilee 19 benefits for our consultancy operations only) and the UK (funded plan MSEK 2019 2018 20 providing pension and death-in-service benefits). The Group also curProduction expenses 107 106 21 rently has plans that are not significant in 13 other countries. Selling and administrative expenses -8 17 22 The defined benefit arrangement for clerical staff in the guarding operTotal pension costs for defined benefit plans 99 123 23 ations in the Netherlands is accounted for as a defined contribution plan, 24 which is closed to new entrants. New employees are enrolled in another 25 defined contribution plan. The security officers in the guarding operations Consolidated balance sheet 26 in the Netherlands participate in a multi-employer defined benefit plan The table below shows how the net defined benefit obligations have been 27 that is mandatory for all guards from the age of 21 and up. The supervidetermined. It also shows the Group’s reimbursement rights. 28 sion and administration of the plan is carried out by a collective pension foundation for the security industry. This foundation determines the 29 MSEK 2019 2018 annual premium. Premiums paid to the plan in 2019 amounted to MEUR 30 Present value of the defined benefit obligations 4 339 4 166 8 (8). The contribution for the next annual reporting period is expected to 31 Fair value of plan assets1 -3 293 -3 086 be in line with the pension premiums in 2019. Securitas’ share of total pre32 miums to the plan is approximately 19 percent. This plan covers around Defined benefit obligations, net2 1 046 1 080 33 3 700 active employees. Since the administrator is unable to separately Reimbursement rights (note 24) 181 138 34 identify the company’s share of the total plan assets and total defined 1 Includes effect of the asset ceiling amounting to MSEK 41 (41). The effect is related to Canada and 35 benefit obligations for this arrangement, the plan is accounted for on a the UK. 36 2 Related to the net of plans reported under provisions for pensions and similar commitments, MSEK defined contribution basis. The funding ratio in this plan, calculated under 1 141 (1 116), and plans reported under other long-term receivables (note 24), MSEK -95 (-36). 37 the plan rules, was 106 percent (107) as of December 31, 2019. 38 The reimbursement rights are related to a contractual agreement where 39 Sweden Securitas provide security services at a client site in Canada. The agree40 Security officers in Sweden are covered by the SAF-LO collective pension ment requires Securitas to make provisions for post-retirement medical 41 plan, an industry-wide multi-employer defined contribution arrangement. benefits. The costs of this benefit are carried by Securitas who, in turn, are 42 Clerical workers are covered by the ITP plan, which is also based on a reimbursed by the client. This reimbursement right is accounted for as an collective agreement and operated industry-wide on a multi-employer 43 other long-term receivable in note 24. basis. According to a statement (UFR 10) issued by the Swedish Financial 44 Reporting Board this is a multi-employer defined benefit plan. Alecta, the 45 The table below shows how remeasurements net of taxes recognized in insurance company that operates this plan, has been unable to provide 46 other comprehensive income have been determined. Securitas, or other Swedish companies, with sufficient information to 47 determine its share of the total assets and liabilities for this arrangement. 48 Consequently this arrangement is accounted for on a defined contribuMSEK 2019 2018 49 tion basis. The cost for 2019 amounts to MSEK 29 (28). The contribution Remeasurements of provisions for pensions and similar commitments before taxes -16 79 50 for the next annual reporting period is expected to be broadly in line with Remeasurements of reimbursement rights 51 the current year’s premium. Securitas’ share of Alecta’s total premiums before taxes -26 18 52 amounts to less than 0.1 percent. The surplus in Alecta can be allocated to the insured employer and/or the insured employees. Alecta’s fundTaxes 11 -25 53 ing ratio, calculated under the plan rules, was 148 percent (142) as of Total remeasurements recognized in other 54 comprehensive income -31 72 55 December 31, 2019. 56 57 58 59 60 61 Securitas Annual and Sustainability Report 2019 117 N O T E S A N D CO M M E N T S T O T H E CO N S O L I D AT E D F I N A N C I A L S TAT E M E N T S Movement in provisions for pensions and similar commitments 2019 2018 MSEK Obligations Plan assets Net Obligations Plan assets Net Opening balance 4 166 -3 086 1 080 4 050 -3 076 974 Current service cost 121 – 121 115 – 115 Administration cost 19 – 19 18 – 18 Interest income (-) or expense (+)1 99 -76 23 86 -69 17 Remeasurements of other long-term employee benefits 0 – 0 -1 – -1 Past service cost and gains and losses arising from settlements2 -379 315 -64 -68 42 -26 Total pension costs included in the consolidated statement of income -140 239 99 150 -27 123 Remeasurements of post-employment benefits: Return on plan assets, excluding amount included in interest income or expense – -348 -348 – 163 163 Changes in the effect of the asset ceiling, excluding amount included in interest income or expense 3 – -2 -2 – 22 22 Actuarial gains (-) and losses (+) from changes in demographic assumptions -4 – -4 23 – 23 Actuarial gains (-) and losses (+) from changes in financial assumptions 374 – 374 -134 – -134 Actuarial gains (-) and losses (+) due to experience -36 – -36 5 – 5 Total remeasurements of post-employment benefits 4 334 -350 -16 -106 185 79 Contributions by employers5 – -154 -154 – -151 -151 Contributions by plan participants 61 -61 – 55 -55 – Benefits paid to plan participants -253 253 – -221 221 – Administration costs paid -19 19 – -18 18 – Acquisitions / divestitures / reclassifications 0 – 0 13 0 13 Translation difference 190 -153 37 243 -201 42 Closing balance 4 339 -3 293 1 046 6 4 166 -3 086 1 080 6 1 Whereof MSEK 2 (1) is related to interest on the effect of the asset ceiling. 2 Related to settlement gains in Norway 2019 and 2018. 3 Related to Canada and the UK. 4 Included net of taxes in other comprehensive income. 5 Contributions by employers are estimated to be on approximately the same level in 2020 as in 2019. 6 Related to the net of plans reported under provisions for pensions and similar commitments, MSEK 1 141 (1 116), and plans reported under other long-term receivables (note 24), MSEK -95 (-36). 118 Securitas Annual and Sustainability Report 2019 N O T E S A N D CO M M E N T S T O T H E CO N S O L I D AT E D F I N A N C I A L S TAT E M E N T S Plan assets Note The table below presents a breakdown of the various types of investments in which the assets of the Group’s funded benefit arrangements are invested. 1 2 MSEK 2019 % 2018 % 3 Equity instruments 4 Switzerland 279 195 5 US 247 212 6 Canada 56 46 7 Other countries 190 330 8 Total equity instruments 772 23 783 25 9 10 Debt instruments 11 Government bonds 732 515 12 Corporate bonds, investment grade (AAA to BBB-) 1 203 989 13 Corporate bonds, non-investment grade (below BBB-) 8 8 14 Total debt instruments 1 943 59 1 512 49 15 Property 302 10 269 9 16 Qualifying insurance policies 143 4 447 14 17 Cash and cash equivalents 174 5 116 4 18 Effect of the asset ceiling -41 -1 -41 -1 19 Total plan assets 3 293 100 3 086 100 20 21 The plan assets are well diversified on countries and industries, so the The plan assets do not include any property owned by Securitas or finan22 failure of any single investment is not estimated to have a material impact cial instruments issued by Securitas. The share of unquoted plan assets 23 on the overall level of assets. is non-material. 24 25 26 Actuarial assumptions and sensitivity analysis 27 The table below shows the significant financial actuarial assumptions used for determining the defined benefit obligations at the end of the year as well 28 as in determining the pension costs for the coming year. 29 30 %, per annum Discount rate Salary increases Inflation Pension increases Mortality 31 2019 32 Switzerland 0.20 1.00 1.00 0.00 LPP 2015 33 RP 2006 white 34 collar/blue collar with MP-2019 35 US 2.60-2.80 n/a n/a n/a improvements 36 CPM-RPP 2014 Private 37 Sector Table, CPM-B scale 110% males, 38 Canada 3.10-3.20 1.00 2.00 n/a 100% females 39 Norway 1.70 2.25 n/a 0.50-2.00 K 2013 40 Eurozone 0.50-1.10 2.00–2.75 1.75–2.00 1.25-1.75 – 41 SAPS (S3NA), CMI 42 2018 with a smoothing 43 factor of 7.0, an initial adjustment of 0.50% 44 p.a. and a long term 45 improvement rate of UK 2.00 3.00 2.30-3.30 2.30-3.30 1.25% p.a. 46 47 2018 48 RP 2006 white 49 collar/blue collar 50 with MP-2018 51 US 3.80-3.90 n/a n/a n/a improvements 52 Switzerland 0.70 1.00 1.00 0.00 LPP 2015 53 Norway 2.00 2.75 n/a 0.80-2.50 K 2013 54 Eurozone 1.10-1.90 2.00–2.75 1.75–2.00 1.25-1.75 – 55 Other countries 2.90–4.00 1.00–3.00 2.00–3.50 2.50–3.50 – 56 57 58 59 60 61 Securitas Annual and Sustainability Report 2019 119 N O T E S A N D CO M M E N T S T O T H E CO N S O L I D AT E D F I N A N C I A L S TAT E M E N T S The table below shows the methods used to set significant actuarial assumptions for the Group’s main defined benefit plans. Discount rate Salary increases Inflation Pension increases Mortality Company’s Long-term expectations When financially bearable Latest tables Switzerland Chamber of Pensions Actuaries best estimate in Switzerland by pension plan available Cash flow matching approach Latest tables US applied to the Citigroup yield curve n/a n/a n/a available Company’s Long-term expectations Latest tables Canada Canadian Institute of Actuaries best estimate in Canada n/a available Latest tables Norway NRS guidance NRS guidance n/a NRS guidance available Assumptions are set by the company based on actuarial advice and the company’s experience in each territory. The table below indicates the sensitivity to changes in significant assumptions for provisions for pensions and similar commitments. MSEK Increase (+) / decrease (-) in provision Discount rate – pension plans increase of 0.1 percentage points -48 decrease of 0.1 percentage points 48 Inflation – pension plans increase of 0.1 percentage points 8 decrease of 0.1 percentage points -8 Life expectancy – pension plans one year increase 119 Health-care cost rate – medical plans increase of 1 percentage point 311 decrease of 1 percentage point -242 1 The corresponding effect on the statement of income is an increase of costs of MSEK 1. 2 The corresponding effect on the statement of income is a decrease of costs of MSEK -1. The sensitivity analysis has been determined based on reasonably posThe same method used to calculate the provisions for pensions and sible changes of the respective assumptions occurring at the end of the similar commitments, that is the projected unit credit method, is used for reporting period and may not be representative of the actual change. The calculating the sensitivities. sensitivity analysis is further based on a change in one assumption while There have been no changes in the methods and assumption changes holding all other assumptions constant, although in reality changes in used in preparing the sensitivity analysis compared to the previous year. some assumptions may be correlated. Risks The table below shows significant risks that the Group is exposed to through its defined benefit plans. Asset volatility The plan liabilities are calculated using a discount rate set with reference to corporate bond yields. If plan assets underperform this yield, a deficit will be created. In a long-term perspective, equities are expected to outperform corporate bonds, but in the short-term perspective the yield on the Group’s investments in equity instruments may cause volatility. Changes in bond yields A decrease in corporate bond yields will increase plan liabilities, although this will be partially offset by an increase in the value of the plans’ bond holdings. In the US, an asset-liability matching approach is practiced to mitigate the risks associated with changes in bond yields as far as possible. Inflation risk Some of the Group’s pension obligations are linked to inflation, and higher inflation will lead to higher liabilities. However, the Group’s plans in the US are not linked to inflation, which makes the inflation risk less significant for the Group. Life expectancy The majority of the plans’ obligations are to provide benefits for the life of the member, so increases in life expectancy will result in an increase in the plans’ liabilities. In some countries, the benefit provided at retirement is a lump sum payment and therefore increases in life expectancy do not impact liabilities in these countries. 120 Securitas Annual and Sustainability Report 2019 N O T E S A N D CO M M E N T S T O T H E CO N S O L I D AT E D F I N A N C I A L S TAT E M E N T S NOTE 33 Other long-term provisions Note 1 The movement in the balance sheet for provisions for pensions and similar commitments is provided in note 32. The movement in the balance sheet 2 for deferred tax liabilities is provided in note 15. 3 4 DECEMBER 31, 2019 5 MSEK Claims reserves Other provisions Total 6 Opening balance 624 216 840 7 Reclassification -2 0 -2 8 New / increased provisions 7 16 23 9 Utilized provisions – -64 -64 10 Reversal of unutilized provisions -107 -4 -111 11 Translation differences 27 6 33 12 Closing balance 549 170 719 13 14 15 Claims reserves Other provisions 16 Liability insurance-related claims reserves primarily consist of provisions Other provisions include various long-term items, among them provi17 for the portion of claims payable by the Group, that is its self-retention. sions related to litigations. Other provisions are difficult to assess from a 18 Claims reserves comprise a large number of individual insurance cases timing perspective. It is thus not possible to disclose any detailed infor19 where some cases are compensated with a lump sum payment and others mation regarding the timing of outflows from other provisions. 20 are paid over a longer period of time. It is thus not possible to disclose any 21 detailed information regarding the timing of outflows from claims reserves. 22 23 24 NOTE 34 Short-term loan liabilities1 NOTE 35 Other current liabilities 25 26 MSEK 2019 2018 MSEK 2019 2018 27 Current lease liabilities 944 106 Employee-related items1 8 134 7 511 28 Total current lease liabilities 944 106 Accrued interest and financial expenses 220 210 29 EMTN Nom MUSD 40, 2014 / 2020, FRN Quarterly 2 373 – Deferred revenue 965 951 30 EMTN Nom MUSD 85, 2013 / 2019, FRN Quarterly2 – 759 Other accrued expenses and prepaid income 1 267 1 122 31 Commercial paper issued3 750 950 Value added tax 1 466 1 484 32 Other short-term loans 144 552 Deferred considerations 202 78 33 Derivatives in net investment hedges 4 9 11 Other items 682 672 Other derivatives 5 14 10 Total other current liabilities 12 936 12 028 34 Total other short-term loan liabilities 1 290 2 282 35 1 Related to accrued salaries, vacation pay, payroll overhead, bonus and similar items. Accounted for Total short-term loan liabilities 2 234 2 388 net of government grants when applicable. 36 37 1 For further information regarding financial instruments refer to note 7. 2 Issued by the Parent Company. 38 3 Commercial paper is issued by the Parent Company within the framework of a MSEK 5 000 Swedish 39 commercial paper program. Commercial paper is accounted for at the issued amount. 4 Related to derivatives designated for hedging with negative fair value. 40 5 Related to financial liabilities at fair value through profit or loss with negative fair value. 41 42 43 44 45 46 47 48 49 50 51 52 53 54 55 56 57 58 59 60 61 Securitas Annual and Sustainability Report 2019 121 N O T E S A N D CO M M E N T S T O T H E CO N S O L I D AT E D F I N A N C I A L S TAT E M E N T S NOTE 36 Short-term provisions The EA Group in bankruptcy also asserted a claim of MBRL 314, which as of December 31, 2019 was equivalent to MSEK 724 in the civil court DECEMBER 31, 2019 against Securitas, alleging that Securitas is responsible for the company’s Other financial failure. Securitas denies all allegations. The defense of this case MSEK Claims reserves provisions Total has been entrusted to one of the leading law firms in Brazil. In a decision Opening balance 578 786 1 364 by the first instance court in Brazil the case was fully rejected. The judgReclassification -1 3 2 ment was appealed by the bankruptcy estate to the Brazilian Court of Appeals and the Court of Appeals decided on formal grounds to nullify the New / increased provisions 311 542 1 853 judgment and to remand the case to the first instance court for retrial (and Utilized provisions -309 -736 -1 045 production of evidence). The case is slowly moving through the Brazilian Reversal of unutilized legal system and Securitas maintains its previous position to the claims. provisions -9 -79 -88 In addition, several former employees of the EA Group have sued SecuTranslation differences 25 17 42 ritas and other parties in labor courts and claimed inter alia wages and Closing balance 595 533 1 128 other compensations. The number of labor law cases involving Securitas 1 T  he change in new and increased provisions classified under the heading Other provisions are continued to decrease and the claimed amounts are in average relatively impacted mainly by the recognition of provisions related to the two transformation programs for the digitization of the company. low. Securitas denies all responsibility for such labor claims. Claims reserves Spain – tax audit Liability insurance-related claims reserves primarily consist of provisions The Spanish tax authority has, in connection with audits of Securitas for the portion of claims payable by the Group, that is its self-retention. Spain, challenged certain interest payments in 2009, 2012 and 2014, and decided to reject interest deductions made for the financial years 2003–2005, 2006–2007 and 2008–2009 respectively. The years NOTE 37 Pledged assets 2003–2005 are finally resolved by the Supreme Court and paid in 2016. For years 2006–2007 Securitas has in 2018 requested a leave for MSEK 2019 2018 appeal to the Supreme Court, but has not yet received any decision. The Pension balances, defined contribution plans 124 128 years 2008–2009 have been resolved by the court, which Securitas has Finance leases according to IAS 17 n/a 222 accepted, see further below. Total pledged assets 124 350 The Spanish Supreme Court issued their judgment during 2016 regarding the years 2003–2005, implying that the years 2003–2004 were resolved as time barred and the majority of the interest deducNOTE 38 Contingent liabilities tions for 2005 were disallowed. Securitas closed the years 2003–2005 in 2016 by payment of tax and interest of MEUR 4.3 (equivalent to MSEK 2019 2018 MSEK 41). Guarantees1 – 1 In June 2017 the superior court Audiencia Nacional issued a negative Guarantees related to discontinued operations 16 15 judgment concerning the years 2006–2007, implying that all interest was Total contingent liabilities 16 16 disallowed, in contradiction to the 2016 judgment by the Supreme Court on the same matter for the years 2003–2005. This is also contradictory to 1 Guarantees on behalf of related parties are disclosed in note 8. the lower court Tribunal Económico Administrativo Central’s earlier judgIn addition to the contingent liabilities accounted for in the table, the folment for the years 2008–2009, a judgment that Securitas has accepted lowing contingent liabilities, for which no amount can be determined, also as final. exist: If finally upheld by Spanish courts, the resolution by the Spanish tax authorities regarding rejected interest deductions for the years 2006– Brazil – Estrela Azul 2007, and the accepted judgment regarding years 2008–2009, would result in a tax of MEUR 29, equivalent to MSEK 300, including interest In connection with the efforts of Securitas to expand its activities in Latin up to December 31, 2019 (as of December 31, 2018 this exposure was America, Securitas entered into an agreement in 2005 with respect to the estimated to MEUR 28, equivalent at the time to MSEK 287). No further possible acquisition of a guarding company in Brazil, Estrela Azul (the EA exposure exists for similar rejected interest deductions after the financial Group). The governmental approvals took much longer than anticipated year 2009, as the Group adjusted the capitalization of Securitas Spain in to obtain and during such period the financial condition of the target group 2009 to avoid future challenges of interest deductions. substantially deteriorated. Given the decline in the financial condition of Further, the Spanish tax authority decided, in connection with an audit the group, Securitas exercised its right to withdraw from the acquisition of Securitas Spain in 2013, to reject a tax exemption for a demerger of the process in December 2006. Spanish Systems company, in connection with Securitas AB’s distribution The companies within the EA Group filed for protection from its crediof the shares in Securitas Systems AB to its shareholders and the listtors under Brazilian legislation in 2007 providing for a judicial restructuring on the Stockholm Stock Exchange in 2006. In June 2017, Securitas ing process. The companies within the group were declared bankrupt received a negative judgment from the superior court Audiencia Nacional in 2009 and the restructuring process was replaced by bankruptcy and has been granted a leave for appeal with the Supreme Court in May proceedings. The bankruptcy process continues led by the trustee in the 2018. bankruptcy court. Various attempts by the trustee to increase the liability If finally upheld by Spanish courts, the resolution by the Spanish of Securitas in the bankruptcy has been vigorously rejected. tax authorities, concerning the demerger case, would result in a tax of The EA Group in bankruptcy has asserted claims against Securitas in MEUR 22, equivalent to MSEK 226, including interest up to Decemthe bankruptcy court trying to extend liability to Securitas for the bankber 31, 2019 (as of December 31, 2018 this exposure was estimated to ruptcy and the claims in the bankruptcy. The estate has not quantified its MEUR 21, equivalent at the time to MSEK 217). claims. The cases are slowly moving through the Brazilian legal system. 122 Securitas Annual and Sustainability Report 2019 N O T E S A N D CO M M E N T S T O T H E CO N S O L I D AT E D F I N A N C I A L S TAT E M E N T S Further, in 2014 the tax authority decided to reject a deduction for a Spain – Mutua Note currency related liquidation loss in the financial year 2010, relating to a Securitas in Spain has received a claim of MEUR 6.3 from the social secu1 company that was acquired in 2004. In 2017 the lower court TEAC issued rity authorities relating to services allegedly received from Mutua Univer2 a negative judgment, which was in contradiction to the 2016 Supreme sal in the period 1998 to 2007. The authorities are questioning whether 3 Court judgment regarding the basis for disallowing the deduction. such services, in such case, were allowed to be provided under applicable 4 Securitas has appealed the case to the superior National court Audiencia regulations. This is a consequence of a lawsuit against some of Mutua 5 Nacional. Universal’s former employees. Securitas is affected, as over 2 000 other If finally upheld by Spanish courts, the resolution by the Spanish tax 6 companies, as an indirect beneficiary of the services rendered. Securitas authorities regarding the liquidation loss would result in a tax of MEUR 18, 7 is convinced that it has acted in accordance with applicable law. equivalent to MSEK 191, including interest up to December 31, 2019 (as 8 of December 31, 2018 this exposure was estimated to MEUR 18, equivaOther proceedings 9 lent at the time to MSEK 183). Over the years, Securitas has made a number of acquisitions in different 10 Provided that the courts decide in Securitas cases in accordance with countries. As a result of such acquisitions, certain contingent liabilities of 11 the 2016 Supreme Court judgment, the exposure for the currency related the businesses acquired have been assumed. The risks relating to such 12 liquidation loss for the financial year 2010 is expected to cease. contingent liabilities are covered by contractual indemnification, insur13 Securitas believes it has acted in accordance with applicable law and ance or adequate reserves. 14 will defend its position in the courts. However, the tax resolutions cause Companies within the Securitas Group are also involved in a number of 15 some uncertainty and it may take several years until all final judgments proceedings, including legal proceedings and tax audits arising out of the 16 have been received. business. Any liabilities arising out of such proceedings are not expected 17 to be material to the business operations or the financial position of the 18 Group. 19 20 21 22 23 24 25 26 27 28 29 30 31 32 33 34 35 36 37 38 39 40 41 42 43 44 45 46 47 48 49 50 51 52 53 54 55 56 57 58 59 60 61 Securitas Annual and Sustainability Report 2019 123 N O T E S A N D CO M M E N T S T O T H E CO N S O L I D AT E D F I N A N C I A L S TAT E M E N T S NOTE 39 Financial five year overview1 MSEK 2015 2016 2017 2018 20192 INCOME Total sales 80 860 88 162 92 197 101 467 110 899 of which acquired business 270 3 136 718 1 760 1 339 Acquired sales growth, % 0 4 1 2 1 Organic sales growth, % 5 7 5 6 4 Real sales growth, % 6 11 5 8 6 Operating income before amortization 4 089 4 554 4 697 5 304 5 738 Operating margin, % 5.1 5.2 5.1 5.2 5.2 Amortization and impairment of acquisition related intangible assets -275 -288 -255 -260 -271 Acquisition related costs -30 -113 -48 -120 -62 Items affecting comparability – – – -455 -209 Financial income and expenses -308 -389 -376 -441 -578 Income before taxes 3 476 3 764 4 018 4 028 4 618 Taxes -1 032 -1 118 -1 267 -1 007 -1 256 Net income for the year 2 444 2 646 2 751 3 021 3 362 – whereof attributable to non-controlling interests 7 4 2 5 5 Average number of shares after dilution (‘000) 365 059 365 059 365 059 365 059 364 993 Earnings per share after dilution (SEK) 6.67 7.24 7.53 8.26 9.20 CASH FLOW Operating income before amortization 4 089 4 554 4 697 5 304 5 738 Investments in non-current tangible and intangible assets -1 329 -1 659 -1 808 -2 188 -3 010 Reversal of depreciation 1 072 1 229 1 445 1 693 2 690 Change in accounts receivable -707 -1 039 -449 -1 575 -239 Changes in other operating capital employed 274 -46 -48 -62 -277 Cash flow from operating activities 3 399 3 039 3 837 3 172 4 902 as % of operating income before amortization 83 67 82 60 85 Financial income and expenses paid -322 -301 -425 -432 -443 Current taxes paid -914 -1 017 -1 122 -856 -1 191 Free cash flow 2 163 1 721 2 290 1 884 3 268 as % of adjusted income 78 52 68 48 83 Free cash flow per share 5.9 4.7 6.3 5.2 9.0 Cash flow from investing activities, acquisitions and divestitures -147 -3 566 -304 -1 755 -574 Cash flow from items affecting comparability -27 -17 – -117 -303 Cash flow from financing activities -3 303 2 146 -743 -376 -1 699 Cash flow for the year -1 314 284 1 243 -364 692 Interest-bearing net debt at beginning of year -10 421 -9 863 -13 431 -12 333 -14 513 Change in lease liabilities -28 -92 28 -31 -3 332 Change in loans 2 235 -3 332 -654 -1 053 93 Revaluation of financial instruments 1 23 -29 26 60 Translation differences on interest-bearing net debt -336 -451 510 -758 -541 Interest-bearing net debt at year-end -9 863 -13 431 -12 333 -14 513 -17 541 124 Securitas Annual and Sustainability Report 2019 N O T E S A N D CO M M E N T S T O T H E CO N S O L I D AT E D F I N A N C I A L S TAT E M E N T S Note 1 MSEK 2015 2016 2017 2018 2019 2 2 CAPITAL EMPLOYED AND FINANCING 3 Non-current assets excluding acquisition related items 3 872 4 634 5 384 5 987 9 729 4 Accounts receivable 11 353 13 353 13 349 15 604 16 120 5 Other operating capital employed -10 617 -11 203 -11 173 -12 392 -12 749 6 Operating capital employed 4 608 6 784 7 560 9 199 13 100 7 as % of total sales 6 8 8 9 12 8 Goodwill 16 429 19 380 18 719 21 061 22 157 9 Acquisition related intangible assets 987 1 356 1 173 1 458 1 563 10 Shares in associated companies 369 419 420 452 320 11 Capital employed 22 393 27 939 27 872 32 170 37 140 12 Return on capital employed, % 18 16 17 15 15 13 14 Net debt -9 863 -13 431 -12 333 -14 513 -17 541 Net debt equity ratio, multiple 0.79 0.93 0.79 0.82 0.89 15 Net debt to EBITDA ratio 1.9 2.4 2.0 2.3 2.2 16 Interest coverage ratio, multiple 13.1 11.1 11.8 10.7 9.4 17 Free cash flow in relation to net debt 0.22 0.13 0.19 0.13 0.19 18 19 Shareholders’ equity attributable to equity holders of the Parent Company 12 510 14 487 15 518 17 632 19 569 20 Non-controlling interests 20 21 21 25 30 21 Equity per share 34 40 43 48 54 22 Return on equity, % 21 20 18 18 18 23 Equity ratio, % 31 30 31 32 32 24 Financing of capital employed 22 393 27 939 27 872 32 170 37 140 25 1 For definitions and calculation of key ratios refer to note 3. 26 2 S ecuritas has adopted IFRS 16 Leases as of January 1, 2019. As a consequence, certain lines in the consolidated financial statements 27 as well as key ratios are not comparable with the preceding years. For further information refer to note 41. Group key ratios according to Securitas’ financial model. Refer to pages 54-55. 28 Diagram_BV_sid 117 / 1 Diagram_BV_sid 117 / 2 Diagram_BV_sid 117 / 3 Diagram_BV_sid 117 / 4 29 30 Operating income 31 Total sales and before amortization 32 organic sales growth and operating margin Earnings per share Free cash flow in relation to net debt 33 MSEK % SEK MSEK % 34 % 120 000 10 10.00 6 000 5.5 35 100 000 25 8 5 000 5.3 8.00 20 36 80 000 6 4 000 6.00 5.1 15 37 60 000 3 000 4 4.9 4.00 10 38 40 000 2 000 2.00 5 39 20 000 2 1 000 4.7 0 40 0 0 0 4.5 0 15 16 17 18 19 15 16 17 18 19 41 15 16 17 18 19 15 16 17 18 19 Organic sales growth, % 42 Operating margin, % 43 44 45 46 47 48 49 50 51 52 53 54 55 56 57 58 59 60 61 Securitas Annual and Sustainability Report 2019 125 N O T E S A N D CO M M E N T S T O T H E CO N S O L I D AT E D F I N A N C I A L S TAT E M E N T S NOTE 40 Remeasurement for hyperinflation The impact on the Group´s financial position from the adoption and appliREMEASUREMENT IMPACT IN THE CONSOLIDATED BALANCE SHEET ON THE INITIAL ADOPTION DATE JULY 1, 2018 cation of IAS 29 Financial reporting in Hyperinflationary economies, as described in note 2, is illustrated below. The index used by Securitas for MSEK July 1, 2018 the remeasurement of the financial statements in 2019 is the consumer ASSETS price index with base period January 2003. Non-current assets EXCHANGE RATES AND INDEX Goodwill 236 Acquisition related intangible assets 5 Dec 31, Dec 31, Jul 1, 2019 2018 20181 Other intangible assets 4 Exchange rate SEK/ARS 0.16 0.23 0.33 Tangible non-current assets 40 Index 17.15 11.15 9.17 Total non-current assets 285 Current assets NET MONETARY GAIN RECOGNIZED IN THE CONSOLIDATED STATEMENT Non-interest-bearing current assets 5 OF INCOME Total current assets 5 Jan-Dec Jul-Dec TOTAL ASSETS 290 MSEK 2019 20181 Financial income and expenses 25 23 SHAREHOLDERS' EQUITY AND LIABILITIES Total net monetary gain 25 23 Shareholders' equity Attributable to equity holders of the Parent Company 275 REMEASUREMENT IMPACT RECOGNIZED IN OTHER COMPREHENSIVE INCOME Total shareholders' equity 275 Current liabilities Jan-Dec Jul-Dec Jul 1, Non-interest-bearing current liabilities and provisions 15 MSEK 2019 20181 20181 Total current liabilities 15 Remeasurement on first time adoption July 1, 2018 – 275 275 TOTAL SHAREHOLDERS' EQUITY AND LIABILITIES 290 Remeasurement during the year 79 39 – Total remeasurement for hyperinflation, net of taxes 79 314 275 REMEASUREMENT IMPACT IN THE CONSOLIDATED CAPITAL EMPLOYED AND FINANCING ON THE INITIAL ADOPTION DATE JULY 1, 2018 1 First time adoption date for IAS 29 was July 1, 2018. MSEK July 1, 2018 Operating capital employed 34 Goodwill 236 Acquisition related intangible assets 5 Capital employed 275 Shareholders' equity 275 126 Securitas Annual and Sustainability Report 2019 N O T E S A N D CO M M E N T S T O T H E CO N S O L I D AT E D F I N A N C I A L S TAT E M E N T S NOTE 41 Adoption and impact of IFRS 16 Leases Note 1 2 As described in note 2 Accounting principles, Securitas has adopted IMPACT ON CONSOLIDATED STATEMENT OF INCOME 3 IFRS 16 Leases as of January 1, 2019. The effects of the adoption are Jan-Dec 4 described below. MSEK 2019 The cumulative effect of the adoption has been recognized without 5 Operating income before amortization 1 80 restatement of the comparative periods. As a consequence, certain lines 6 Financial expenses -148 in the consolidated financial statements and segment overviews as well Income before taxes -68 7 as key ratios are not comparable with the preceding year. 8 Deferred taxes 19 Securitas’ lease agreements are mainly attributable to buildings and 9 Net income for the year -49 vehicles. As from the transition to IFRS 16, they are accounted for as 10 right-of-use assets and long-term and current lease liabilities in the con11 Earnings per share before and after dilution (SEK) -0.13 solidated balance sheet. This includes leased fixed assets that according Earnings per share before and after dilution and before items 12 to IAS 17 were classified as financial leases in 2018. affecting comparability (SEK) -0.13 13 In the consolidated statement of income, depreciation of the right-of1 Depreciation of right-of-use assets included in operating income in 2019 was MSEK -890. 14 use assets is accounted for on the lines production expenses and selling 15 and administrative expenses. Interest expenses are accounted for on the BRIDGE BETWEEN OPERATING LEASES UNDER IAS 17 AND LEASE LIABILITY ACCORDING TO IFRS 16 16 line financial expenses. In the Group’s segment overviews, the effects of the adoption of IFRS 16 are accounted for under each segment. MSEK Jan 1, 2019 17 The lease liabilities on January 1, 2019 have been measured at the 18 Operating leases under IAS 17 at December 31, 2018 4 259 present value of remaining lease payments, discounted by using the Effect of discounting -504 19 incremental borrowing rate for each country. The Group’s average increFinance leases recognized at December 31, 2018 (note 31 and 34) 222 20 mental borrowing rate on lease liabilities recognized in the balance sheet 21 Short-term leases recognized on a straight-line basis as expense -269 on January 1, 2019 was approximately 3.9%. The right-of-use assets on 22 Low-value leases recognized on a straight-line basis as expense -53 January 1, 2019 have been measured at an amount equal to the lease Lease liability under IFRS 16 at January 1, 2019 3 655 23 liabilities. 24 Extension clauses are evaluated for each lease agreement and are IMPACT ON CONSOLIDATED CAPITAL EMPLOYED AND FINANCING 25 applied based on the best estimate at each closing. Payments for short26 term leases, where the lease term ends within 12 months of the date of MSEK Jan 1, 2019 initial application, as well as leases of low-value assets, have been recog27 Capital employed nized on a straight-line basis as an expense in the statement of income 28 Previously recognized financial lease assets (note 21) 222 and thus excluded from the lease liabilities accounted for under IFRS 16. 29 Additional right-of-use assets under IFRS 16 3 433 In the consolidated statement of cash flow, interest expenses are 30 Operating capital employed at January 1, 2019 3 655 accounted for on the line financial items paid under cash flow from opera31 tions while principal payments are included on the line change in lease 32 Financing liabilities under cash flow from financing activities. 33 Previously recognized financial lease liabilities 222 The impact on the consolidated statement of income and consolidated 34 balance sheet from the adoption and application of IFRS 16 is specified in Additional lease liabilities under IFRS 16 3 433 35 the tables below. The effect on deferred tax from IFRS 16 is accounted for Net debt at January 1, 2019 3 655 36 in note 15. IMPACT ON CONSOLIDATED BALANCE SHEET 37 38 MSEK Jan 1, 2019 39 Assets 40 Previously recognized financial lease assets (note 21) 222 41 Additional right-of-use assets under IFRS 16 3 433 42 Total right-of-use assets at January 1, 2019 3 655 43 44 Liabilities 45 Previously recognized financial lease liabilities 222 46 Additional lease liabilities under IFRS 16 3 433 47 Total lease liabilities at January 1, 2019 3 655 48 49 50 KEY RATIOS 51 Less: Impact from Dec 31, 2019 52 Dec 31, 2019 IFRS 16 adjusted for IFRS 16 Dec 31, 2018 53 Net debt to EBITDA 2.2 -0.2 2.0 2.3 54 Free cash flow to Net debt 0.19 0.04 0.23 0.13 55 Interest coverage ratio 9.4 2.8 12.2 10.7 56 Operating capital employed as % of sales 12 -3 9 9 57 Return on operating capital employed, % 50 7 57 58 58 Return on capital employed, % 15 1 16 15 59 Net debt to equity ratio 0.89 -0.17 0.72 0.82 60 Equity ratio, % 32 1 33 32 61 Securitas Annual and Sustainability Report 2019 127 PA R E N T COM PA N Y FINA NC IA L STAT EMENTS Parent Company statement of income MSEK Note 2019 2018 License fees and other income 44 1 449 1 196 Gross income 1 449 1 196 Administrative expenses 46, 47 -1 034 -808 Other operating income 46 34 30 Operating income 449 418 Result of financial investments Dividend 44 1 980 1 593 Interest income 44 612 659 Interest expenses 44 -443 -418 Other financial income and expenses, net 48 60 435 Total financial income and expenses 2 209 2 269 Income after financial items 2 658 2 687 Appropriations Group contributions from subsidiaries 44 340 338 Group contributions to subsidiaries 44 -212 -136 Depreciation and amortization in excess of plan 57 1 2 Transfer to tax allocation reserve 57 -234 -333 Total appropriations -105 -129 Income before taxes 2 553 2 558 Current taxes 49 -151 -221 Deferred taxes 49 -38 -68 Net income for the year 2 364 2 269 Parent Company statement of comprehensive income MSEK Note 2019 2018 Net income for the year 2 364 2 269 Other comprehensive income Items that subsequently may be reclassified to the statement of income Cash flow hedges net of tax 45 36 63 Cost of hedging net of tax 45 12 -44 Total items that subsequently may be reclassified to the statement of income 48 19 Other comprehensive income 49 48 19 Total comprehensive income for the year 2 412 2 288 Parent Company statement of cash flow MSEK Note 2019 2018 Operations Operating income 449 418 Reversal of depreciation 50, 51 2 26 Financial items received 2 602 2 251 Financial items paid -451 -403 Current taxes paid -210 -125 Change in other operating capital employed 169 428 Cash flow from operations 2 561 2 595 Investing activities Investments in and disposals of non-current tangible and intangible assets 50, 51 98 -11 Shares in subsidiaries 52 -2 633 -36 Cash flow from investing activities -2 535 -47 Financing activities Dividend paid -1 606 -1 460 Proceeds from bond loans 1 445 3 004 Redemption of bond loans -792 -3 480 Proceeds from commercial paper 5 098 2 500 Redemption of commercial paper -5 300 -1 550 Change in other interest-bearing net debt excluding liquid funds 1 399 -2 179 Cash flow from financing activities 244 -3 165 Cash flow for the year 270 -617 Liquid funds at beginning of year 1 326 1 943 Liquid funds at year-end 55 1 596 1 326 128 Securitas Annual and Sustainability Report 2019 PARENT COMPANY FI NANCI AL STATEM E NTS Parent Company balance sheet MSEK Note 2019 2018 ASSETS Non-current assets Intangible assets 50 29 128 Machinery and equipment 51 5 6 Shares in subsidiaries 52 43 911 41 332 Shares in associated companies 53 112 112 Interest-bearing financial non-current assets 45 1 375 1 542 Deferred tax assets 49 27 28 Other long-term receivables 698 358 Total non-current assets 46 157 43 506 Current assets Current receivables from subsidiaries 385 395 Interest-bearing current receivables from subsidiaries 45 3 692 5 574 Other current receivables 50 18 Current tax assets 109 – Prepaid expenses and accrued income 54 152 9 Other interest-bearing current assets 45 2 7 Cash and bank deposits 55 1 596 1 326 Total current assets 5 944 7 329 TOTAL ASSETS 52 101 50 835 SHAREHOLDERS’ EQUITY AND LIABILITIES Shareholders’ equity Restricted equity Share capital 365 365 Legal reserve 7 363 7 363 Development expenditure reserve 9 69 Total restricted equity 7 737 7 797 Non-restricted equity Hedging reserve 63 15 Retained earnings 19 112 18 418 Net income for the year 2 364 2 269 Total non-restricted equity 21 539 20 702 Total shareholders’ equity 56 29 276 28 499 Untaxed reserves 57 687 455 Long-term liabilities Long-term loan liabilities 45 17 189 15 818 Other long-term liabilities 146 151 Deferred tax liabilities 150 100 Total long-term liabilities 58 17 485 16 069 Current liabilities Current liabilities to subsidiaries 638 378 Interest-bearing current liabilities to subsidiaries 45 2 149 2 124 Group account bank overdraft 206 772 Other short-term loan liabilities 45 1 137 2 172 Accounts payable 15 12 Accrued expenses and prepaid income 59 283 284 Current tax liabilities 218 66 Other current liabilities 7 4 Total current liabilities 4 653 5 812 TOTAL SHAREHOLDERS’ EQUITY AND LIABILITIES 52 101 50 835 Securitas Annual and Sustainability Report 2019 129 PA R E N T COM PA N Y FINA NC IA L STAT EMENTS Parent Company statement of changes in shareholders’ equity Retained Development earnings and Total shareShare Legal expenditure Hedging net income holders’ MSEK capital1 reserve reserve reserve for the year equity Opening balance 2018 365 7 363 57 -4 19 883 27 664 Net income for the year – – – – 2 269 2 269 Other comprehensive income Items that subsequently may be reclassified to the statement of income Cash flow hedges net of tax 2 – – – 63 – 63 Cost of hedging net of tax 2 – – – -44 – -44 Total items that subsequently may be reclassified to the statement of income – – – 19 – 19 Other comprehensive income – – – 19 – 19 Total comprehensive income for the year – – – 19 2 269 2 288 Share-based incentive schemes1 – – – – 7 7 Dividend paid to shareholders of the Parent Company – – – – -1 460 -1 460 Transfer to development expenditure reserve – – 28 – -28 – Transfer from development expenditure reserve – – -16 – 16 – Closing balance 2018 365 7 363 69 15 20 687 28 499 Opening balance 2019 365 7 363 69 15 20 687 28 499 Net income for the year – – – – 2 364 2 364 Other comprehensive income Items that subsequently may be reclassified to the statement of income Cash flow hedges net of tax 2 – – – 36 – 36 Cost of hedging net of tax 2 – – – 12 – 12 Total items that subsequently may be reclassified to the statement of income – – – 48 – 48 Other comprehensive income – – – 48 – 48 Total comprehensive income for the year – – – 48 2 364 2 412 Share-based incentive schemes1 – – – – -29 -29 Dividend paid to shareholders of the Parent Company – – – – -1 606 -1 606 Transfer to development expenditure reserve – – 1 – -1 – Transfer from development expenditure reserve – – -61 – 61 – Closing balance 2019 365 7 363 9 63 21 476 29 276 1 Further information is provided in note 56. 2 A specification can be found in note 45, in the table revaluation of financial instruments, as well as in note 49. 130 Securitas Annual and Sustainability Report 2019 N O T E S A N D CO M M E N T S T O T H E PA R E N T CO M PA N Y F I N A N C I A L S TAT E M E N T S Notes Note 1 2 3 4 5 NOTE 42 Accounting principles 6 7 The Parent Company’s financial statements are prepared in accordance RFR 2: IAS 27 Consolidated and 8 with the Swedish Annual Accounts Act and the Swedish Financial Reportseparate financial statements ing Board’s standard RFR 2 Accounting for Legal Entities. The Parent 9 The Parent Company applies the alternative rule in RFR 2: IAS 27 related Company thus follows the same accounting principles as the Group, to Group contributions, which means that Group contributions from sub10 which are described in note 2, when relevant and except in the cases sidiaries as well as Group contributions to subsidiaries are accounted for 11 stated below. The differences that exist between the Parent Company’s as appropriations in the statement of income. 12 and the Group’s accounting principles are a result of the restrictions that 13 the Swedish Annual Accounts Act, the Swedish Act on Safeguarding of Shares in subsidiaries 14 Pension Commitments and the options that RFR 2 allow for IFRS in the Shares in subsidiaries are initially accounted for at cost with subsequent 15 Parent Company. adjustments for capital contributions, impairment and revaluation of 16 deferred considerations. Shares in subsidiaries are reviewed for impair17 RFR 2: IFRS 3 Business combinations ment whenever events or changes in circumstances indicate that the 18 The Parent Company measures the acquisition cost as the sum of the carrying amount may not be recoverable. 19 acquisition-date fair values of assets transferred, liabilities incurred or 20 transferred and all costs that are directly attributable to the acquisition. Securitas’ share-based incentive scheme 21 Contingent considerations are recognized as part of the acquisition cost if In addition to the Group’s accounting principles for share-based payments it is probable that they will be realized. The acquisition cost is adjusted in 22 (IFRS 2) as described in note 2 Accounting principles, the following has subsequent periods if the initial assessment needs to be revised. 23 been applied in the Parent Company’s financial statements. The Parent 24 Company has secured the delivery of shares according to Securitas shortRFR 2: IFRS 9 Financial instruments term, sharebased incentive scheme by entering into a swap agreement 25 The Parent Company follows IFRS 9 except for financial guarantees in with a third party regarding purchase of shares. 26 relation to subsidiaries. For further information refer to the accounting To the extent that shares according to the swap agreement is subject 27 principles adopted by the Group for financial instruments in note 2. to delivery to employees in other Group companies than the Parent Com28 pany, a liability to Group companies has been recorded in the Parent Com29 RFR 2: IFRS 15 Revenue pany’s accounts. This liability is recorded at the value of the commitment 30 Anticipated dividend from a subsidiary is recognized as income in the that Securitas AB has to the subsidiaries to deliver shares, that is the num31 Parent Company in accordance with RFR 2 if the Parent Company has the ber of shares to be delivered according to the swap agreement at the lat32 exclusive right to decide the amount of the dividend from the subsidiary. est share price for Securitas AB’s series B share. Social security expenses 33 The Parent Company must furthermore ensure that the dividend is in line are calculated based on the market value of the shares that potentially will 34 with the subsidiary’s dividend capacity. Dividend from a subsidiary that be allocated. Fluctuations in the share price for these shares thus lead to 35 has not been anticipated is accounted for on a cash basis. changes in social security expenses that impact the Parent Company’s and Group’s income. 36 RFR 2: IFRS 16 Leases This is the only impact on the Parent Company’s and Group’s income 37 The Parent Company does not apply IFRS 16. Consequently, leases due to fluctuations in the share price for the shares that potentially will 38 where the Parent Company is the lessee are recognized as an operating be allocated. This means that any possible increase or decrease of the 39 expense in the statement of income on a linear basis over the lease term. liability to Group companies has not been accounted for in the Parent 40 There are no lease contracts where the Parent Company is the lessor. Company’s income statement. 41 42 RFR 2: IAS 19 Employee benefits 43 Accounting for defined benefit plans according to the Swedish Act on NOTE 43 Events after the balance sheet date 44 Safeguarding of Pension Commitments leads to differences between the 45 accounting in the Parent Company and the Group. These differences have Approval of the Annual Report and 46 no material impact on the employee benefits relating to the employees of Consolidated Financial Statements for 2019 47 the Parent Company. Pension solutions either fall within the framework of This Annual Report including the Consolidated Financial Statements 48 the ITP–plan that is insured via Alecta, which is described in note 32, or in was approved by the Board of Directors and the President and CEO of Securitas AB on March 18, 2020. 49 all material aspects consist of other defined contribution plans. 50 RFR 2: IAS 21 Effects of changes in foreign exchange rates Other significant events after the balance sheet date 51 Exchange rate differences arising on a monetary item that forms part In order to hedge the share portion of Securitas short-term, share-based 52 of the Parent Company’s net investment in a foreign subsidiary are incentive scheme 2019, Securitas AB entered into a swap agreement 53 accounted for in the Parent Company’s statement of income, in accorwith a third party in the beginning of March 2020. 54 dance with RFR 2. There have been no other significant events with effect on the financial 55 reporting after the balance sheet date. 56 57 58 59 60 61 Securitas Annual and Sustainability Report 2019 131 N O T E S A N D CO M M E N T S T O T H E PA R E N T CO M PA N Y F I N A N C I A L S TAT E M E N T S NOTE 44 Transactions with related parties Transactions between the Parent Company and subsidiaries are priced in accordance with business principles. THE PARENT COMPANY’S TRANSACTIONS WITH RELATED PARTIES COMPRISE MSEK 2019 2018 License fees from subsidiaries 1 434 1 177 Other income from subsidiaries 15 19 Dividends from subsidiaries 1 980 1 593 Interest income from subsidiaries 602 630 Interest expenses to subsidiaries -53 -47 Group contributions from subsidiaries 340 338 Group contributions to subsidiaries -212 -136 Guarantees issued on behalf of subsidiaries 2 424 2 281 NOTE 45 Financial risk management The Parent Company follows, as stated in note 42, IFRS 9 Financial instruments. Refer to note 2 and note 7 for further information about financial risks that are applicable also for the Parent Company. LIQUIDITY REPORT AS PER DECEMBER 31, 2019 AND 2018 Between 1 year Between 3 years MSEK Total < 1 year and < 3 years and 5 years > 5 years December 31, 2019 Borrowings -19 441 -1 928 -9 030 -5 315 -3 168 Derivatives outflows -13 941 -9 070 -3 141 -65 -1 665 Accounts payable -15 -15 – – – Total outflows -33 397 -11 013 -12 171 -5 380 -4 833 Investments 5 216 5 187 3 8 18 Derivatives receipts 13 754 9 046 3 136 66 1 506 Total inflows 18 970 14 233 3 139 74 1 524 Net cash flows, total1 -14 427 3 220 -9 032 -5 306 -3 309 December 31, 2018 Borrowings -19 329 -3 056 -5 707 -3 789 -6 777 Derivatives outflows -24 232 -19 689 -80 -2 875 -1 588 Accounts payable -12 -12 – – – Total outflows -43 573 -22 757 -5 787 -6 664 -8 365 Investments 6 820 6 708 16 96 – Derivatives receipts 24 385 19 652 217 3 007 1 509 Total inflows 31 205 26 360 233 3 103 1 509 Net cash flows, total1 -12 368 3 603 -5 554 -3 561 -6 856 1 Variable rate cash flows have been estimated using the relevant yield curve as at the balance sheet date. HEDGING RESERVE AS PER DECEMBER 31, 2019 AND 2018 Cost of Interest rate Currency hedging cash flow cash flow Total Deferred Total net MSEK reserve hedges hedges before tax tax of tax Opening balance January 1, 2019 -56 10 65 19 -4 15 Change in fair value of hedging instrument recognized in other comprehensive income 16 -18 117 115 -25 90 Reclassified from other comprehensive income to profit or loss – 6 -60 -54 12 -42 Closing balance December 31, 2019 -40 -2 122 80 -17 63 Opening balance January 1, 2018 – 5 -10 -5 1 -4 Change in fair value of hedging instrument recognized in other comprehensive income -56 -1 195 138 -30 108 Reclassified from other comprehensive income to profit or loss – 6 -120 -114 25 -89 Closing balance December 31, 2018 -56 10 65 19 -4 15 132 Securitas Annual and Sustainability Report 2019 N O T E S A N D CO M M E N T S T O T H E PA R E N T CO M PA N Y F I N A N C I A L S TAT E M E N T S REVALUATION OF FINANCIAL INSTRUMENTS1 Note MSEK 2019 2018 1 Recognized in the statement of income 2 Fair value adjustment to hedged item in fair value hedge 350 358 3 Fair value adjustment to hedging instrument in fair value hedge -350 -358 4 Other financial income and expenses2,3 -6 7 5 Deferred tax – – 6 Impact on net income for the year -6 7 7 8 Recognized via hedging reserve in other comprehensive income 9 Transfer to cash flow hedging reserve before tax 99 194 10 Transfer to cost of hedging reserve before tax 16 -56 11 Deferred tax on transfer to hedging reserve -25 -30 12 Transfer to hedging reserve net of tax 90 108 13 14 Transfer to statement of income before tax -54 -114 15 Deferred tax on transfer to statement of income 12 25 16 Transfer to statement of income net of tax -42 -89 17 Change of cash flow hedging reserve before tax 45 80 18 Change of cost of hedging reserve before tax 16 -56 19 Total change of hedging reserve before tax4 61 24 20 Deferred tax on total change of hedging reserve 4 -13 -5 21 Total change of hedging reserve net of tax 48 19 22 23 Total impact on shareholders' equity as specified above 24 Total revaluation before tax5 55 31 25 Deferred tax on total revaluation5 -13 -5 26 Total revaluation after tax 42 26 27 1 S ecuritas has early adopted the amendments to IFRS 9, specifically the temporary relief from certain accounting requirements to hedging relationships directly affected by the IBOR reform. 28 2 Related to financial assets and financial liabilities at fair value through profit or loss. 3 There was no significant ineffectiveness in the fair value hedges or in the cash flow hedges. 29 4 Total of transfer to hedging reserve and transfer from hedging reserve to statement of income. 30 5 Total revaluation and deferred tax recognized via statement of income and via other comprehensive income. 31 DERIVATIVES IN THE BALANCE SHEET 32 MSEK 2019 2018 33 34 Interest-bearing financial non-current assets 35 Fair value hedges -116 110 36 Cash flow hedges 356 283 37 Other derivative positions1 -27 -39 38 Total derivatives included in interest-bearing financial non-current assets 213 354 39 Interest-bearing current receivables from subsidiaries 40 Other derivative positions 1 0 41 Total derivatives included in interest-bearing current receivables from subsidiaries 1 0 42 43 Other interest-bearing current assets 44 Other derivative positions 2 7 45 Total derivatives included in other interest-bearing current assets 2 7 46 Long-term loan liabilities 47 Fair value hedges 288 165 48 Cash flow hedges -117 -67 49 Other derivative positions 2 13 18 50 Total derivatives included in long-term loan liabilities 184 116 51 52 Interest-bearing current liabilities to subsidiaries 53 Other derivative positions – 22 54 Total derivatives included in interest-bearing current liabilities to subsidiaries – 22 55 Other short-term loan liabilities 56 Other derivative positions 15 15 57 Total derivatives included in other short-term loan liabilities 15 15 58 59 1 Cross currency interest rate swaps are split into different components, of which some elements are negative when the overall fair value is positive. 2 Cross currency interest rate swaps are split into different components, of which some elements are positive when the overall fair value is negative. 60 61 Securitas Annual and Sustainability Report 2019 133 N O T E S A N D CO M M E N T S T O T H E PA R E N T CO M PA N Y F I N A N C I A L S TAT E M E N T S FAIR VALUE – HIERARCHY AS PER DECEMBER 31, 2019 AND 2018 Valuation techniques Valuation techniques Quoted using observable using non-observable market prices market data market data Total MSEK 2019 2018 2019 2018 2019 2018 2019 2018 Financial assets at fair value through profit or loss – – 3 8 – – 3 8 Financial liabilities at fair value through profit or loss – – -15 -36 – – -15 -36 Derivatives designated for hedging with positive fair value – – 213 354 – – 213 354 Derivatives designated for hedging with negative fair value – – -184 -116 – – -184 -116 LIABILITIES FROM FINANCING ACTIVITIES 2019 AND 2018 Non-cash changes Opening balance Translation Closing balance MSEK Jan 1 Cash flows1 Reclassification Other changes differences Dec 31 2019 Long-term borrowings 15 818 1 490 -373 68 186 17 189 Short-term borrowings 5 068 -2 086 373 -22 159 3 492 Derivative assets held to hedge external borrowings -516 – – -122 – -638 Total 20 370 -596 – -76 345 20 043 2018 Long-term borrowings 12 887 3 004 -760 115 572 15 818 Short-term borrowings 8 298 -4 173 760 -61 244 5 068 Derivative assets held to hedge external borrowings -299 – – -217 – -516 Total 20 886 -1 169 – -163 816 20 370 1 Excluding other derivative positions and dividend paid to shareholders of the Parent Company, which are included in cash flow from financing activities in the consolidated statement of cash flow. NOTE 46 Administrative expenses and other operating income Administrative expenses AUDIT FEES AND REIMBURSEMENTS Additional audit assignments mainly comprise review of the interim MSEK 2019 2018 report for the second quarter as well as review of financial reporting and PwC internal control in additional countries than those included in the agreed Audit assignments 9 7 audit plan. Tax assignments mainly comprise tax return compliance, Additional audit assignments 2 2 transfer pricing and questions related to tax legislation compliance. Other Tax assignments 1 2 assignments mainly comprise review of pension plans. Other assignments1 2 2 Total1 14 13 Other operating income 1 Total audit fees and reimbursements to PwC amounts to MSEK 14 whereof MSEK 1 does not relate Other operating income consists in its entirety of trade mark fees for the to PwC Sweden, included in Other assignments. use of the Securitas brand name. NOTE 47 Personnel AVERAGE NUMBER OF YEARLY EMPLOYEES: DISTRIBUTION BETWEEN WOMEN AND MEN Women Men Total 2019 2018 2019 2018 2019 2018 Board of Directors 3 3 5 5 8 8 President – – 1 1 1 1 Other employees, Sweden 31 28 21 22 52 50 134 Securitas Annual and Sustainability Report 2019 N O T E S A N D CO M M E N T S T O T H E PA R E N T CO M PA N Y F I N A N C I A L S TAT E M E N T S STAFF COSTS Note 2019 2018 Of which bonuses 1 Social (of which Social (of which 2 MSEK Salaries benefits pensions) Salaries benefits pensions) 2019 2018 3 Board of Directors and President1 29 8 (1) 31 7 (1) 1 6 4 Other employees 84 54 (19) 73 42 (13) 12 17 5 Total 113 62 (20) 104 49 (14) 13 23 6 1 Refer to note 9 for further information regarding remuneration to the Board of Directors and President. 7 8 9  Other financial income Balance sheet 10 NOTE 48 and expenses, net Deferred tax assets are attributable to employee related debt. 11 MSEK 2019 2018 12 Tax loss carryforwards 13 Impairment losses, shares in subsidiaries 1 -54 – The tax loss carryforwards for the Parent Company amounted to MSEK 0 14 Exchange rate differences, net 138 447 (0) as of December 31, 2019. 15 Bank costs and similar income / expense items -18 -19 16 Revaluation of financial instruments -6 7 Total other financial income and expenses, net 60 435 NOTE 50 Intangible assets 1 17 18 1 Impairment losses 2019 for Securitas Argentina S.A. have been recognized as a combination of MSEK 2019 2018 19 adverse movements in foreign currency rates and negative underlying performance. Opening balance 307 288 20 Disposals2 -213 -9 21 NOTE 49 Taxes Capital expenditures 2 28 22 Closing accumulated balance 96 307 23 Statement of income 24 Opening amortization -179 -159 25 TAX EXPENSE Disposals2 113 5 26 MSEK 2019 2018 Amortization for the year -1 -25 27 Tax on income before taxes Closing accumulated amortization -67 -179 28 Current taxes -151 -221 29 Deferred taxes -38 -68 Closing residual value 29 128 30 Total tax expense -189 -289 1 I n 2019, mainly related to the brand name Securitas in one of the Group’s countries of operations, 31 included with MSEK 16 (16). The trademark is tested annually for impairment. Refer to note 17 sec32 The Swedish corporate tax rate was 21.4 percent (22.0). tion impairment testing for further information. In 2018, mainly related to Securitas Guard Management System, which is a system used for commu33 nicating, coordinating, performing and reporting services. DIFFERENCE BETWEEN STATUTORY SWEDISH TAX RATE 34 2 In 2019, mainly related to Securitas Guard Management System, which has been disposed to a Group AND ACTUAL TAX EXPENSE FOR THE PARENT COMPANY company. 35 MSEK 2019 2018 36 Income before taxes according 37 to the statement of income 2 553 2 558 NOTE 51 Machinery and equipment 38 Tax based on Swedish tax rate -546 -563 MSEK 2019 2018 39 Tax related to untaxed reserves -50 -73 40 Opening balance 24 61 Tax related to previous years / foreign 41 Disposals 0 -35 withholding tax -1 -1 Capital expenditures 0 0 42 Tax related to non-taxable income 424 351 Write-offs – -2 43 Tax related to non-deductible expenses -16 -3 Closing accumulated balance 24 24 44 Actual tax expense -189 -289 45 Opening depreciation -18 -41 46 Tax related to non-taxable income in 2019 and 2018 mainly relates to Disposals 0 22 47 dividends from subsidiaries. Tax related to non-deductible expenses in 2019 relates mainly to write-down of shares in subsidiaries and in 2018 Write-offs – 2 48 non-deductible expenses was mainly related to miscellaneous nonDepreciation for the year -1 -1 49 deductible expenses. Closing accumulated depreciation -19 -18 50 51 Other comprehensive income Closing residual value 5 6 52 53 TAX ON OTHER COMPREHENSIVE INCOME 54 MSEK 2019 2018 55 Deferred tax on cash flow hedges -9 -17 56 Deferred tax on cost of hedging -4 12 57 Deferred tax on other comprehensive income -13 -5 58 59 60 61 Securitas Annual and Sustainability Report 2019 135 N O T E S A N D CO M M E N T S T O T H E PA R E N T CO M PA N Y F I N A N C I A L S TAT E M E N T S NOTE 52 Shares in subsidiaries 1 Number of % of share capital / Book value Book value Subsidiary name Corporate identity no. Domicile shares 2019 voting rights 2019 2019, MSEK 2018, MSEK Grupo Securitas Mexico S.A de C.V 2 GSM930817U48 Monterrey 14 999 99.98 44 14 Protectas S.A. CH-550-0084385-3 Lausanne 50 000 100 33 33 Securitas Argentina S.A.3 1587929 Buenos Aires 6 882 400 20 2 13 Securitas Asia Holding AB 556691-8800 Stockholm 100 000 100 286 286 Securitas Aviation d.o.o. MBS 080689871 Zagreb 1 100 1 1 Securitas BH d.o.o. 65-01-0503-11 Sarajevo – 100 87 87 Securitas Biztonsági Szolgáltatások Magyarország Kft Cg.01-09-721946 Budapest – 100 22 22 Securitas Bulgaria Ltd 204820136 Sofia 200 100 0 0 Securitas Canada Ltd 454437-4 Toronto 4 004 100 86 86 Securitas ČR sro 43872026 Prague – 100 186 186 Securitas Eesti AS 10188743 Tallinn 1 371 100 32 32 Securitas Fire & Safety Services SRL4 J40 / 13561 / 2007 Bucharest 1 5 0 0 Securitas Group Reinsurance DAC 317030 Dublin 2 000 000 100 576 576 Securitas Holding GmbH HRB 33348 Düsseldorf 1 100 2 572 2 572 Securitas Holdings Inc. 95-4754543 Parsippany 100 100 2 208 2 208 Securitas Hrvatska d.o.o MBS 080132523 Zagreb 1 100 177 177 Securitas Intelligent Services AB 556655-4670 Stockholm 1 000 100 50 50 Securitas Invest AB 556630-3995 Stockholm 1 000 100 7 7 Securitas Middle East and Africa Holding AB 556771-4406 Stockholm 100 000 100 192 180 Securitas Montenegro d.o.o. 02387620 Niksic – 100 1 1 Securitas Nordic Holding AB 556248-3627 Stockholm 1 000 000 100 9 269 9 269 Securitas NV5 0427.388.334 Brussels 8 238 99.90 942 942 Securitas Podjetje za varovanje d.o.o. 8075280000 Ljubljana – 100 0 0 Securitas Polska Sp. z o. o. 0000036743 Warsaw 18 000 100 27 27 Securitas Rental AB 556376-3829 Stockholm 1 000 100 4 4 Securitas Security Consulting Holding AB 556087-1468 Stockholm 1 000 100 137 128 Securitas Security Services Ireland Ltd 275069 Dublin 2 410 002 100 29 29 Securitas Seguridad Holding SL B83446831 Madrid 7 267 100 8 398 8 043 Securitas Services d.o.o. 17487809 Belgrade – 100 148 148 Securitas Services Holding U.K. Ltd 5759961 London 34 000 400 100 976 976 Securitas Services International BV 33287487 Amsterdam 25 000 100 2 345 2 345 Securitas Services Romania SRL J40 / 2222 / 2001 Bucharest 21 980 100 49 49 Securitas Sicherheitsdienstleistungen GmbH FN148202w Vienna – 100 92 92 Securitas SK sro 36768073 Prievidza – 100 33 1 Securitas Toolbox Ltd 316907 Dublin 100 100 0 0 Securitas Transport Aviation Security AB 556691-8917 Stockholm 5 100 000 100 425 273 Securitas Treasury Ireland Ltd 152440 Dublin 21 075 470 100 14 475 12 475 Total shares in subsidiaries 43 911 41 332 1 T he main business in the subsidiaries is specialized guarding and mobile services, monitoring, 4 T he remaining 95 percent of Securitas Fire & Safety Services SRL are held by Securitas Services technical solutions and consulting and investigations. The subsidiaries also comprise of the Group’s Romania SRL. internal bank, Securitas Treasury Ireland Ltd, as well as the Group’s internal insurance company, 5 The remaining 0.1 percent of Securitas NV are held by Securitas Rental AB. Securitas Group Reinsurance DAC. A complete specification of the subsidiaries can be obtained from the Parent Company. 2 T he remaining 0.02 percent of Grupo Securitas Mexico S.A de C.V are held by Securitas Rental AB. 3 The remaining 80 percent of Securitas Argentina S.A. are held by Securitas Seguridad Holding SL. CHANGE ANALYSIS OF SHARES IN SUBSIDIARIES NOTE 53 Shares in associated companies MSEK 2019 2018 HOLDINGS 2019 AND 2018 Opening balance 41 332 41 296 Acquisitions 1 32 – Share in Voting Book value, Company Domicile equity, % rights, % MSEK Capital contributions 2 601 37 Walsons Services Pvt Ltd Delhi 49 49 112 Impairment losses2 -54 – Holdings 2019 112 Revaluation of deferred considerations – -1 Closing balance 43 911 41 332 Walsons Services Pvt Ltd Delhi 49 49 112 1 Intra group acquisition relates to Securitas SK sro. Holdings 2018 112 2 Impairment losses 2019 for Securitas Argentina S.A. have been recognized as a combination of adverse movements in foreign currency rates and negative underlying performance. 136 Securitas Annual and Sustainability Report 2019 N O T E S A N D CO M M E N T S T O T H E PA R E N T CO M PA N Y F I N A N C I A L S TAT E M E N T S NOTE 54  Prepaid expenses and accrued income Share-based incentive scheme Note Securitas’ share-based incentive scheme has had the following impact on 1 MSEK 2019 2018 retained earnings: 2 Prepaid software licenses and support costs 2 4 MSEK 2019 2018 3 Prepaid insurance premiums 1 1 Swap agreement1, 2 -147 -140 4 Other prepaid expenses 5 4 Redemption of previous year's swap agreement1 140 149 5 Total prepaid expenses and accrued income 8 9 Share-based remuneration to employees 3 6 7 6 Settlement of previous year's 7 NOTE 55 Liquid funds share-based remuneration to employees 3 -7 -9 8 Repurchase of shares 4 -21 – 9 Liquid funds include short-term investments with a maximum duration Total impact on retained earnings -29 7 10 of 90 days that are readily convertible to a known amount of cash and 1 Related to the whole Group’s short-term share-based incentive scheme. 11 subject to an insignificant risk of change in value. Liquid funds also include 2 T he number of shares that have been hedged in this swap agreement amount to a total of 1 003 835 12 cash and bank deposits. Short-term investments refer to fixed interest (999 831) and have been allotted to the participants during the first quarter 2020, provided that they were still employed by the Group at that time. 13 rate bank deposits. 3 Related to share-based remuneration for Securitas AB’s employees only. 14 In the Parent Company’s balance sheet, utilized internal credits in the Swed4 Number of shares repurchased amounts to 125 000. Repurchased shares services as a hedge for the long-term incentive program. 15 ish cash-pool account are reported under the Group account bank overdraft. 16 17 NOTE 56 Shareholders’ equity NOTE 57 Untaxed reserves 18 MSEK 2019 2018 19 Number of shares December 31, 2019 Accumulated depreciation and amortization 20 Number of in excess of plan 20 21 21 shares MSEK Tax allocation reserve 667 434 22 Series A 17 142 600 17 Total untaxed reserves 687 455 23 Series B 347 916 297 348 24 Total number of shares/share capital 365 058 897 365 25 Less: Treasury shares -125 000 – NOTE 58 Long-term liabilities 26 Total number of shares outstanding 1 364 933 897 – LONG-TERM LIABILITIES FALL DUE FOR PAYMENT AS FOLLOWS 27 1 The quota value is SEK 1.00 per share. 28 MSEK 2019 2018 29 The number of Series A shares is unchanged in relation to December 31, Maturity < 5 years 14 106 12 879 30 2018. During the year, 125 000 Series B shares have been repurchased Maturity > 5 years 3 379 3 190 31 as a hedge for the long-term incentive scheme. As of December 31, 2019 Total long-term liabilities 17 485 16 069 32 there were no outstanding convertible debenture loans that could result 33 in any dilution of the share capital. Each Series A share carries ten votes and each Series B share one vote. NOTE 59 Accrued expenses and prepaid income 34 This is the only difference between the two series of shares. 35 MSEK 2019 2018 36 Shareholders with more than 10 percent of the votes Employee-related items 28 43 37 The principal shareholders are Investment AB Latour with 10.9 percent Accrued interest expenses 220 210 38 of the capital and 29.6 percent of the votes, and Melker Schörling AB with Other accrued expenses 35 31 39 4.1 percent of the capital and 10.7 percent of the votes. Total accrued expenses and prepaid income 283 284 40 41 Proposed allocation of earnings 42 The statements of income and the balance sheets of the Parent Company NOTE 60 Pledged assets 43 and the Group are subject to adoption by the Annual General Meeting on MSEK 2019 2018 44 May 7, 2020. Pension balances, defined contribution plans 124 128 45 RETAINED EARNINGS IN THE PARENT COMPANY AVAILABLE Total pledged assets 124 128 46 FOR DISTRIBUTION 47 MSEK1 48 NOTE 61 Contingent liabilities Hedging reserve 63 49 Retained earnings 19 112 MSEK 2019 2018 50 Net income for the year2 2 364 Guarantees – 1 51 Total 21 539 Guarantees related to discontinued operations 16 15 52 Total contingent liabilities1 16 16 53 THE BOARD OF DIRECTORS PROPOSED THAT THE EARNINGS ARE ALLOCATED AS ­FOLLOWS 54 1 Guarantees on behalf of subsidiaries are disclosed in note 44. There are no guarantees on behalf of associated companies. 55 MSEK1 56 a dividend to the shareholders of SEK 4.80 per share 3 1 752 57 retained earnings to be carried forward3 19 787 58 Total 21 539 59 1 Refer to the Report of the Board of Directors for the proposed allocation of earnings in SEK and for 60 the Board’s statement on the proposed dividend. 2 Includes Group contributions to subsidiaries of MSEK 212. 61 3 C alculated on the number of shares outstanding as per February 6, 2020. Excluding 125 000 treasury shares. Securitas Annual and Sustainability Report 2019 137 S I G N ATU R E S O F THE BOA RD OF D IREC TORS The Board of Directors and the President declare that the consolidated describes material risks and uncertainties facing the Parent Company and financial statements have been prepared in accordance with IFRS as the companies included in the Group. adopted by the EU and give a true and fair view of the Group’s financial The Board of Directors and the President also submit Securitas AB’s position and results of operations. The financial statements of the Parent Sustainability Report for 2019. The sustainability report describes Company have been prepared in accordance with generally accepted the Group’s work with regards to economic, environmental and social accounting principles in Sweden and give a true and fair view of the Parent aspects. The report is prepared according to the Sustainability Reporting Company’s financial position and results of operations. Standards, issued by Global Reporting Initiative (GRI). The statutory administration report of the Group and the Parent ComThe statements of income and balance sheets of the Parent Company pany provides a fair review of the development of the Group’s and the Parand the Group are subject to adoption by the Annual General Meeting on ent Company’s operations, financial position and results of operations and May 7, 2020. Stockholm, March 18, 2020 Marie Ehrling Chairman Carl Douglas Ingrid Bonde Vice Chairman Director John Brandon Anders Böös Fredrik Cappelen Director Director Director Sofia Schörling Högberg Dick Seger Director Director Susanne Bergman Israelsson Åse Hjelm Jan Prang Director Director Director Employee Representative Employee Representative Employee Representative Magnus Ahlqvist President and Chief Executive Officer Our report has been submitted on March 18, 2020 PricewaterhouseCoopers AB Patrik Adolfson Madeleine Endre Authorized Public Accountant Authorized Public Accountant Auditor in charge 138 Securitas Annual and Sustainability Report 2019 AUDI TO R’S R E P O RT Auditor’s report (This is a translation of the Swedish original. For any interpretation the Swedish version prevail) To the general meeting of the shareholders of Securitas AB (publ), corporate identity number 556302-7241 REPORT ON THE ANNUAL ACCOUNTS AND businesses. The Group has arisen through acquisitions and contracts with CONSOLIDATED ACCOUNTS customers. Operations are conducted in some 56 countries. The business is labor intensive, and the number of employees amounts to 370 000 Opinions people. We have audited the annual accounts and consolidated accounts of In summary, our audit can be described as follows • Securitas AB (publ) for the year 2019. The annual accounts and consolidated accounts of the company are included on pages 57-143 in this In the Group audit, we focused on the operations of the Parent Company document. and the 12 most significant reporting units. These units account for In our opinion, the annual accounts have been prepared in accordance approximately 79 percent of net income, 92 percent of operating profit with the Annual Accounts Act and present fairly, in all material respects, and 67 percent of the Group’s operating assets. For the ten largest entithe financial position of parent company as of 31 December 2019 and ties and the Parent Company, our audit activities encompassed a limited its financial performance and cash flow for the year then ended in accorreview of the half-yearly report as of June 30, an assessment of key dance with the Annual Accounts Act. The consolidated accounts have controls related to financial reporting according to Securitas’ framework, been prepared in accordance with the Annual Accounts Act and present early warning of the closing on September 30 prior to the year-end closfairly, in all material respects, the financial position of the group as of 31 ing, and an audit of the year-end closing for the Group’s consolidated December 2019 and their financial performance and cash flow for the financial closing. For the other entities, our audit focused on internal control over financial reporting and the year-end closing. • year then ended in accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards (IFRS), as adopted by the EU, and the Annual Accounts Act. During the year, the auditor in charge, the co-signer and members of the The statutory administration report is consistent with the other parts of audit team visited some 15 operations in 14 countries in order to gain a the annual accounts and consolidated accounts. further understanding of the operations in these countries, perform an We therefore recommend that the general meeting of shareholders overall review of the financial reporting based on the Group’s accounting adopt the income statement and balance sheet for the parent company principles and evaluate compliance with Securitas’ framework for interand the group. nal control. Some of these countries are included in the audit procedures Our opinions in this report on the annual accounts and consolidated described above and are also subject to a statutory audit. The countries accounts are consistent with the content of the additional report that has visited account for approximately 21 percent of the Group’s net income. been submitted to the parent company’s audit committee in accordance with the Audit Regulation (537/2014) Article 11. For other reporting units, analytical audit procedures are performed as a part of the audit of the consolidation. In addition to this, statutory audit Basis for Opinions procedures are performed in some 30 countries or entities, corresponding to 18 percent of net income, 21 percent of operating profit and 19 perWe conducted our audit in accordance with International Standards on cent of the Group’s assets. The statutory audit has in most cases not been Auditing (ISA) and generally accepted auditing standards in Sweden. Our completed prior to signing the audit opinion for the group. The outcome responsibilities under those standards are further described in the Auditor’s of the statutory audits is reported separately to Securitas in connection Responsibilities section. We are independent of the parent company and the with the review of half-yearly report. As this is not deemed to be material, group in accordance with professional ethics for accountants in Sweden and is not used as support in the audit of the financial closing for the group. have otherwise fulfilled our ethical responsibilities in accordance with these The outcome is used in the planning of the audit in order to follow up on requirements. This includes that, based on the best of our knowledge and any significant matters noted for any reporting unit regarding financial belief, no prohibited services referred to in the Audit Regulation (537/2014) reporting or internal control. Article 5.1 have been provided to the audited company or, where applicable, its parent company or its controlled companies within the EU. Materiality We believe that the audit evidence we have obtained is sufficient and The scope of our audit was influenced by our application of materiality. appropriate to provide a basis for our opinions. An audit is designed to obtain reasonable assurance whether the financial statements are free from material misstatement. Misstatements may arise Our audit approach due to fraud or error. They are considered material if individually or in aggregate, they could reasonably be expected to influence the economic deciAudit scope sions of users taken on the basis of the consolidated financial statements. We designed our audit by determining materiality and assessing the risks Based on our professional judgement, we determined certain quantitaof material misstatement in the consolidated financial statements. In partive thresholds for materiality, including the overall group materiality for the ticular, we considered where management made subjective judgements; consolidated financial statements as a whole. These, together with qualitafor example, in respect of significant accounting estimates that involved tive considerations, helped us to determine the scope of our audit and the making assumptions and considering future events that are inherently nature, timing and extent of our audit procedures and to evaluate the effect uncertain. As in all of our audits, we also addressed the risk of manageof misstatements, both individually and in aggregate on the financial statement override of internal controls, including among other matters considments as a whole. eration of whether there was evidence of bias that represented a risk of material misstatement due to fraud. Key audit matters We tailored the scope of our audit in order to perform sufficient work to Key audit matters of the audit are those matters that, in our professional enable us to provide an opinion on the consolidated financial statements judgment, were of most significance in our audit of the annual accounts as a whole, taking into account the structure of the Group, the accounting and consolidated accounts of the current period. These matters were processes and controls, and the industry in which the group operates. addressed in the context of our audit of, and in forming our opinion Securitas’ business consists of performing various protective serthereon, the annual accounts and consolidated accounts as a whole, but vices. Its customers differ in size and operate in diverse segments and we do not provide a separate opinion on these matters. Securitas Annual and Sustainability Report 2019 139 AUD I TO R’ S R E P O RT Key audit matter How our audit addressed the Key audit matter Audit of impairment testing of goodwill and other When testing for impairment of goodwill and other acquisition-related acquisition related intangible assets intangible assets, in order to ensure primarily the valuation and accuracy, we have performed audit procedures including: We refer to Note 4 Critical estimates and judgments, Note 16 Acquisitions and divestitures of subsidiaries and Note 17 Goodwill and impairment • Evaluation of the assumptions as disclosed in note 17 as well as that the model used are in accordance with IFRS, we used PwC valuation testing. In Note 17, information regarding the sensitivity analysis perexperts to test and evaluate the models and methodology used includformed with regards to which adjustment of assumptions made would ing the new level on which impairment testing is performed, as well as trigger an impairment of goodwill. the significant assumptions. Goodwill and other acquisition related intangible assets, including cus• On a sample basis we have tried, verified, evaluated and challenged the data used in the calculation versus the Company’s long-term plans and, tomer relations, amount to MSEK 22 157, and are as such a significant where possible, external information. We have focused on assessed portion of Securitas’ consolidated balance sheet per December 31, 2019 growth rates, margin developments and discount rate applied per cash corresponding to some 36% of the total assets. The balance sheet item generating unit. We also followed-up the accuracy and inherent quality is subject to management’s assessments and assumptions, and with of the Company’s process to prepare business plans and financial plans regards to the significance and complexity in the assessment of the value based on the historic outcome. of the balance sheet item, also considered as a key audit matter in the audit. • Control of the sensitivity in the valuation for negative changes to key assumptions, that either individually or collectively could imply an Securitas annually performs a test to assess the value of goodwill and impairment of goodwill. if there is any need for impairment if the book value of the assets exceeds the calculated fair value according to the test. • Assessment of that the disclosures provided in the financial statements are correct based on the impairment test performed, particularly for Securitas has an established process to test the valuation, based on information on the sensitivity in the valuations. the identified cash generating units (CGU), as described in note 17. For 2019, there was 4 identified cash generating units. In 2019, Securitas has • Comparison of the disclosures in the annual report to the requirement of IAS 36 and found them to be consistent in all material aspects. tested goodwill on a segment level instead of country level. The change in method is due to that Securitas applies IFRS 16 from a segment level. Based on our audit, it is our conclusion that Securitas’ assumptions are Securitas process implies that they prepare the impairment test based such that they are within an acceptable interval. Furthermore, the inforon business plans, financial plans and prognosis for the five immediate mation included in note 17 comply with the requirement for disclosures years. The cash flows from the years beyond the five immediate years are regarding assumptions and risks, for which a fair change in assumptions extrapolated based on the business plan. The process therefore contains imply, or can imply, a need for impairment. assumptions that have a significant impact on the impairment test. This includes assumptions on sales growth, margin development and discount rate (WACC). These parameters are as such affected by unexpected future market or economic conditions, particularly those relating to the cash flow forecast and the applied discount rate. The value according to the test correspond to the value of discounted cash flow for identified cash generating units. Even if a unit passes the impairment test, a future negative development compared to the assumptions and assessments that constituted the basis for the test, can imply that there is a need for an impairment write-down. The risk for an impairment is larger for entities that currently perform worse in comparison with the approved business plan. Other acquisition related intangible assets are subject to depreciations according to plan. For these assets, an impairment test is performed if it can be assumed that the value of the assets has reduced so that an impairment may be necessary. Securitas conclusion, based on the best assessment and the information available at the time of preparing the annual impairment test, is that there is no need for impairment related to the assets mentioned above per 31 December 2019. 140 Securitas Annual and Sustainability Report 2019 AUDI TO R’S R E P O RT Key audit matter How our audit addressed the Key audit matter Routines and processes including accounting of employeeIn order to be able to pay salaries to close to 370 000 employees on a related expenses and pension and medical plans monthly basis, or in some cases more frequently, there must be well-functioning routines and processes in place in order to calculate and control We refer to note 4 Critical estimates and judgments, note 9 Remuneration the salaries and remuneration to be paid. to the Board of Directors and senior management, note 12 Personnel, Our audit is therefore based both on an evaluation of the internal control note 32 Provisions for pensions and similar commitments as well as note environment and on other analytical procedures, including system-based 33 Other long-term provisions, note 35 Other current liabilities and note analysis of certain balance sheet and income statement items for selected 36 Short-term provisions. subsidiaries, and detailed testing. These subsidiaries correspond to some 62 percent of the employee-related costs, on a full year basis, and have Securitas has 370 000 employees in its subsidiaries. The Group’s approximately 157 000 employees. employee-related expenses mainly regard salaries and payroll overhead, The basis for the evaluation of internal control has been Securitas’ internal including social charges and employers’ contributions as well as other control framework for financial reporting. The testing of controls and short-term remuneration, including holiday pay and variable compensaamounts has been performed on a sample basis. Our audit procedures tion. Employee-related expenses amount to approximately BSEK 86, corhave, inter alia, included: responding to 81 percent of operating costs. This is thus the most significant cost item in Securitas’ consolidated income statement. The related • Reconciling significant accruals and/or provisions regarding, for example, holiday pay, accrued salaries, taxes and social charges with costs consist of both salaries and other remuneration, including variable system-generated support and calculations and estimates made by compensation and directly related taxes and social contributions. management. In addition to this, Securitas is responsible for, or its employees participate in, a number of pension plans and plans implying medical benefits to • Auditing of employee-related costs, including plans, using analytical procedures with regard to changes in costs in the income statement, employees. For these plans, Securitas has an obligation, which is recogaccruals and provisions compared with our knowledge and understandnised as liability. ing and use of systems-based data analysis. The risk refers to the completeness of these items, meaning that they are correctly calculated, properly cut off and valued. There is also an • With regards to pension and medical plans, we have audited significant supporting assumptions, assessed historical outcome and assessed the inherent complexity in the management of payroll when various groups reasonability of management’s estimates. Wherever possible, we also of empolyees are under different employment contracts and collective verified this information with external support, including reports from agreements, which in itself gives rise to differences in how salaries, other independent and external actuaries. Overall the provisions are within remuneration and benefits should be calculated, and which actuarial the acceptable interval. assumptions are to be used regarding the plans. Securitas’ internal control framework includes specific controls on the management of payroll and Based on our audit, no significant observations have been noted which personnel costs to ensure that proper salaries and remuneration and have resulted in reporting to the audit committee. Our overall conclusion attributable taxes and charges are paid. is that there are, in all material respects, proper processes in place to manage and account for payroll and employee-related expenses. Key audit matter How our audit addressed the Key audit matter Valuation of provisions related to disputes, and In our audit, we examined the accuracy and valuation of the aforemendisclosures on contingent liabilities tioned matters. Securitas has a documented assessment of the outcome of the ongoing cases and exposures, and monitors these on a continuous We refer to note 4 Critical estimates and judgments and note 38 basis, assisted by both in-house legal counsel and external lawyers. A folContingent liabilities. low-up is conducted at both the local and Group level. We have discussed these assumptions with the company’s in-house legal counsel, and with Subsidiaries within the Group are involved in a number of legal proceedGroup legal for some of the more significant cases. ings and related matters. These legal disputes include litigations in variWe have evaluated the assessments and estimates made by manous countries, for example, Estrela Azul (Brazil), Mutua (Spain) and the agement with regard to the existing disputes and exposures. This was investigation described on page 61 related to improper supplierand performed based on documentation of the individual matters, conducted other business relations in Argentina. The key assumption is manageinvestigations, the historical outcome of similar cases and statements ment’s assessment of the future outcome of the ongoing proceedings from external legal advisors regarding disputes, contingent liabilities and and exposures, which directly affects the valuation of these matters and other exposures of which they are aware, or for which they are supporting the disclosures provided in the financial reports. or representing Securitas. The company consults external legal advisors regarding significant As outlined in the financial statements, the outcome of such matters queries and issues relating to these matters. The future outcome of the are dependent on the future outcome of continuing legal and regulatory matters, and the accounting effects thereof, are based on assessments procedures. As such, calculations of provisions are subject to inherent and complex legal matters which may take time to finally solve. The risk uncertainty. We have not noted any inconsistencies in the documentation primarily regards the valuation of the outcome of these cases. As a part of that we have received and examined, or that the disclosures provided our audit, we have considered the ongoing matters and disputes given the did not correspond to the requirements in IAS 37 Provisions, Contingent inherent subjectivity and uncertainty regarding the final outcome. SecuLiabilities and Contingent Assets. ritas has established routines whereby the Group’s Chief Legal Officer reports each quarter on the development of and significant events related to these matters to the CEO and audit committee. This report is also sent to the Board of Directors. Securitas Annual and Sustainability Report 2019 141 AUDI TOR ’S REP ORT Key audit matter How our audit addressed the Key audit matter Valuation of provisions for tax-related matters In our audit, we checked the accuracy and valuation of these matters. Securitas has a documented assessment of the outcome of the ongoing We refer to note 4 Critical estimates and judgments, and note 15 Taxes. matters and exposures and monitors these on an ongoing basis. The audit procedures performed include, for example: Companies within the Group are involved in tax-related matters and tax audits. This includes, inter alia, the ongoing tax audit in Spain. The key • Discussion of these matters with the company’s in-house tax counsel for some of the more significant matters. assumption is management’s assessment of the future outcome of the ongoing proceedings and exposures, which directly affects the valuation • Examination of Securitas’ tax calculations and application of tax regulations. of these matters, and the disclosures provided in the financial reports. The risk primarily regards the valuation of the outcome of these cases. As a • Evaluation of the assessments and estimates made by management with regard to the existing tax disputes and ongoing tax audits. This part of our audit, we considered the tax cases, given the inherent subjecwas based on the historical outcome of similar cases and statements tivity and uncertainty related to the final outcome. from external legal advisors regarding disputes, contingent liabilities In addition to this, an investigation following information from a and other exposures of which they are aware or for which they are supwhistleblower has revealed that employees in Argentina have engaged porting or representing Securitas. in business activities in violation of the Securitas Values and Ethics Code. The investigation, that indicates various compliance issues, including • Review of the written communication between the company and the tax authorities with regards to ongoing tax audits. For these cases, we conflicts of interest and irregular supplier and other business relationships also consulted PwC tax experts, who participated in our audit. have resulted in corrections of taxes in Argentina by MSEK 130. This is described on page 61 in this annual report. • With the assistance of inter alia PwC’s Argentinian tax experts, we have audited the support and estimates that support the correction of tax in The company consults external legal advisors and tax advisors for Argentina that is described on page 61. significant queries. The future outcome of the matters, and the accounting effects thereof, are based on assessments and complex legal matters As disclosed in the financial statements, the outcome of these matters which may take time to finally solve. The risk primarily regards the valuaare dependent on the future outcome of legal procedures, and associated tion of the outcome of these cases. As a part of our audit, we have considwith an inherent uncertainty. Thus, the calculations of the provisions are ered the ongoing matters and disputes given the inherent subjectivity and subject to inherent uncertainty. We have not noted any inconsistencies uncertainty regarding the fin al outcome. in the documentation that we have received and examined, or that the disclosures provided did not correspond to the requirements in IAS 37 Provisions, Contingent Liabilities and Contingent Assets. Other Information than the annual accounts to enable the preparation of annual accounts and consolidated accounts and consolidated accounts that are free from material misstatement, whether due to fraud or error. This document also contains other information than the annual accounts In preparing the annual accounts and consolidated accounts, The and consolidated accounts and is found on pages 1-31 and 144-164. Board of Directors and the Managing Director are responsible for the The Board of Directors and the Managing Director are responsible for this assessment of the company's and the group's ability to continue as a other information. going concern. They disclose, as applicable, matters related to going conOur opinion on the annual accounts and consolidated accounts does cern and using the going concern basis of accounting. The going concern not cover this other information and we do not express any form of assurbasis of accounting is however not applied if the Board of Directors and ance conclusion regarding this other information. the Managing Director intend to liquidate the company, to cease operaIn connection with our audit of the annual accounts and consolidated tions, or has no realistic alternative but to do so. accounts, our responsibility is to read the information identified above The Audit Committee shall, without prejudice to the Board of Direcand consider whether the information is materially inconsistent with the tor’s responsibilities and tasks in general, among other things oversee the annual accounts and consolidated accounts. In this procedure we also company’s financial reporting process. take into account our knowledge otherwise obtained in the audit and assess whether the information otherwise appears to be materially misAuditor’s responsibility stated. Our objectives are to obtain reasonable assurance about whether the If we, based on the work performed concerning this information, conannual accounts and consolidated accounts as a whole are free from clude that there is a material misstatement of this other information, we material misstatement, whether due to fraud or error, and to issue an audiare required to report that fact. We have nothing to report in this regard. tor’s report that includes our opinions. Reasonable assurance is a high level of assurance, but is not a guarantee that an audit conducted in accorResponsibilities of the Board of Director's dance with ISAs and generally accepted auditing standards in Sweden and the Managing Director will always detect a material misstatement when it exists. Misstatements The Board of Directors and the Managing Director are responsible for the can arise from fraud or error and are considered material if, individually preparation of the annual accounts and consolidated accounts and that or in the aggregate, they could reasonably be expected to influence the they give a fair presentation in accordance with the Annual Accounts Act economic decisions of users taken on the basis of these annual accounts and, concerning the consolidated accounts, in accordance with IFRS as and consolidated accounts. adopted by the EU. The Board of Directors and the Managing Director are A further description of our responsibility for the audit of the annual also responsible for such internal control as they determine is necessary accounts and consolidated accounts is available on Revisorsinspektionen’s website: www.revisorsinspektionen.se/revisornsansvar. This description is part of the auditor´s report. 142 Securitas Annual and Sustainability Report 2019 AUDI TO R’S R E P O RT REPORT ON OTHER LEGAL AND REGULATORY REQUIREMENTS Opinions designed so that the accounting, management of assets and the compaIn addition to our audit of the annual accounts and consolidated accounts, ny’s financial affairs otherwise are controlled in a reassuring manner. The we have also audited the administration of the Board of Director’s and the Managing Director shall manage the ongoing administration according to Managing Director of Securitas AB (publ) for the year 2019 and the prothe Board of Directors’ guidelines and instructions and among other matposed appropriations of the company’s profit or loss. ters take measures that are necessary to fulfill the company’s accounting We recommend to the general meeting of shareholders that the profit in accordance with law and handle the management of assets in a reassurbe appropriated in accordance with the proposal in the statutory admining manner. istration report and that the members of the Board of Director’s and the Managing Director be discharged from liability for the financial year. Auditor’s responsibility Our objective concerning the audit of the administration, and thereby our Basis for Opinions opinion about discharge from liability, is to obtain audit evidence to assess We conducted the audit in accordance with generally accepted auditing with a reasonable degree of assurance whether any member of the Board standards in Sweden. Our responsibilities under those standards are of Directors or the Managing Director in any material respect: further described in the Auditor’s Responsibilities section. We are inde• has undertaken any action or been guilty of any omission which can give rise to liability to the company, or pendent of the parent company and the group in accordance with professional ethics for accountants in Sweden and have otherwise fulfilled our • in any other way has acted in contravention of the Companies Act, the Annual Accounts Act or the Articles of Association. ethical responsibilities in accordance with these requirements. We believe that the audit evidence we have obtained is sufficient and Our objective concerning the audit of the proposed appropriations appropriate to provide a basis for our opinions. of the company’s profit or loss, and thereby our opinion about this, is to assess with reasonable degree of assurance whether the proposal is in Responsibilities of the Board of Director’s accordance with the Companies Act. and the Managing Director Reasonable assurance is a high level of assurance, but is not a guaranThe Board of Directors is responsible for the proposal for appropriations tee that an audit conducted in accordance with generally accepted auditof the company’s profit or loss. At the proposal of a dividend, this includes ing standards in Sweden will always detect actions or omissions that can an assessment of whether the dividend is justifiable considering the give rise to liability to the company, or that the proposed appropriations requirements which the company’s and the group’s type of operations, of the company’s profit or loss are not in accordance with the Companies size and risks place on the size of the parent company’s and the group’ Act. equity, consolidation requirements, liquidity and position in general. A further description of our responsibility for the audit of the administraThe Board of Directors is responsible for the company’s organization tion is available on Revisorsinspektionen’s website: www.revisorsinspeand the administration of the company’s affairs. This includes among ktionen.se/revisornsansvar. This description is part of the auditor’s report. other things continuous assessment of the company’s and the group’s PricewaterhouseCoopers AB was appointed the auditor of Securitas financial situation and ensuring that the company´s organization is ABs (publ) by the annual general meeting on May 6, 2019 and has been the auditor of the company since 1987. Stockholm, March 18, 2020 PricewaterhouseCoopers AB Patrik Adolfson Madeleine Endre Authorised public accountant Authorised public accountant Auditor in charge Securitas Annual and Sustainability Report 2019 143 S USTA I N AB I L I T Y NOT E S Sustainability notes About this report Stakeholder dialogs This report has been prepared according to the Global Reporting Initiative Securitas encourages a continuous and proactive dialog with our stake(GRI) sustainability reporting standards, with the Core application level. holders in order to better understand their expectations and to identify The report also highlights how our priorities reflect the Ten Principles of areas that we need to develop further. We meet many of our stakeholders the UN Global Compact (UNGC) with respect to labor and human rights, regularly during the course of our daily work, and our aim is to be a responthe environment and anti-corruption, and therefore acts as our UNGC sible, honest and transparent company. Listed below are Securitas’ key Communication on Progress. The 2018 sustainability report was pubstakeholders and a description of how we engage with them. Our main lished on April 12, 2019. We aim to publish a report on an annual basis. stakeholders are identified based on the impact they might have on our Unless otherwise noted, the report pertains to the 2019 calendar year and business as well as on their interests and potential influence on Securitas. encompasses all companies within the Securitas Group. Wherever possible, the baseline for the report data is 2018. Information in compliance with the Swedish legal requirements on sustainability reporting is found on pages 10, 11 ,13 and 144-157. For more information, contact: Cecilia Alenius Group Sustainability Officer cecilia.alenius@securitas.com STAKEHOLDER GROUP METHOD OF DIALOG IMPORTANT TOPICS HOW WE RESPOND Clients Securitas consistently tries to find new ways to strengthen our We meet our clients on a daily basis and constantly engage • Securitas’ in-depth knowledge of the client’s industry and security Securitas communicates the benefits of its protective services, client partnerships by gaining in dialog with them. We have needs including electronic security, in a an in-depth understanding of our clients’ needs and industryalso implemented a number of initiatives to establish best • The benefits of security solutions consisting of different combinaclear, transparent and sustainable way. With our deep understanding specific requirements, and practices and develop more easytions of cost-efficient protective of each client’s business, values establishing a shared view on to-use digital interfaces with our services and goals, we can develop security sustainable business conduct. clients. • Global consistency in service delivery and the capability to solutions and services tailored to their individual needs and meet the scale from local to global solurequirements they impose on us as tions a sustainable supplier. Employees and employee representatives Securitas’ most valuable assets The most important forum is the • Values and ethics In order to attract, retain and are our 370 000 skilled and engaged employees, distributed ongoing daily dialog between our employees and Securitas • Fair ment wages and terms of employdevelop our employees, Securitas strives to be a reliable employer. over 56 countries around the managers at different levels, • Health and safety Solid human resources processes world. Our employees represent facilitated by collaboration tools, • Recruitment and onboarding are a vital part of this. We have also the company on a daily basis such as Office 365 and Workplace • Training and skills development formulated a purpose – We help and our company’s reputation by Facebook. Securitas also • Talent management make your world a safer place – to is determined largely by their actions. conducts employee surveys. Securitas engages in a proactive • Data privacy articulate what we do and to further guide our employees in their daily and open dialogue with local work. Securitas values proactive unions, UNI and the EWC. relationships and a constructive dialog with local unions as well as global union associations. Shareholders An active dialog with our shareholders and investors We publish interim reports and other continuous financial • How Securitas is leading the transformation of the security Securitas provides data and figures that support our strategy as well ensures that our business is information, organize Investor industry as information about how the developed from a long-term perspective. Days and conduct other investor and analyst meetings, roadshows • How to manage the challenges related to the transformation to transformation of the services we offer affects our financial results. and conferences. At the Annual intelligent data-driven security We illustrate the benefits of our General Meeting, all shareholders solutions position as an industry leader with are able to exercise their influence. • Maintaining long-term, stable, profitable and sustainable operaa strong competitive advantage. tions 144 Securitas Annual and Sustainability Report 2019 S U S TA I N A B I L I T Y N O T E S STAKEHOLDER GROUP METHOD OF DIALOG IMPORTANT TOPICS HOW WE RESPOND Society Securitas plays an important role in society by providing security As a large employer and a trusted partner to our clients, we engage • Contribution to increased security and safety in local communiSecuritas provides security in a responsible way, protecting and safety. This is a prerequisite in a constant dialog with different ties, through cooperation workplaces, public areas and for a functioning community, parts of the communities where • Creating work opportunities properties. We also aim to be and we actively participate in the local communities where we we operate. • Equal conditions for men and women, ethnic and religious engaged in the local communities, for example, by actively operate. minorities, individuals with disparticipating in various local abilities, etc. projects. Suppliers Securitas has many suppliers in its operations. Ensuring The main forum is the ongoing dialog between our suppliers and • Quality services of procured goods and We provide our suppliers with information regarding Securitas’ that our suppliers follow our requirements concerning values Securitas representatives on all levels. • Requirement to comply with Securitas’ Values and Ethics Values and Ethics Code and include compliance with the Code in our and ethics, among other things, Code supplier contracts. We also have is essential to Securitas. • Compliance policy with anti-corruption specific guidelines and standards for suppliers and conduct supplier • Contract commitment and fulfillment of deliveries risk assessments when required. Industry organizations As one of the largest companies in the security industry, Securitas Securitas is a member of various local and global • Status of security officers and the profession We assume an active role in industry organizations, especially is a driving force in raising industry organizations, such • Remuneration issues in markets where we have a leading the standards and levels of as the International Security • Employee skills development position. We work to increase professionalism in the industry. Ligue, the American Society of • Regulatory issues industry regulation in order to Industrial Security (ASIS) and the National Association of Security • Terms for values and ethics in the international security industry improve the status of the security officer profession, raise industry Companies in the US. Meetings wage levels and intensify skills are conducted regularly. development efforts. Policy makers and authorities Securitas cooperates closely with authorities in all countries Securitas maintains a continuous dialog with authorities and • Laws and regulations concerning the security industry Securitas works to improve the business conditions in the where we operate – both to improve our business conditions policymakers at the local, national and international level. • Possibilities to expand assignments to ensure a safer society security industry. We also explore opportunities to take over non-core and to explore new business police tasks. opportunities. Materiality analysis Material issues are topics that have a substantial influence on the stakeThe survey included questions about what sustainability areas Securiholders’ perception of our performance and impact our ability to create tas should focus on, how well the stakeholders think we perform in these and sustain value. They indicate Securitas’ most significant economic, areas and finally, their view on how sustainable we are as a company. environmental and social impacts. Materiality determines when an issue The results indicated areas that have also previously been considered prioritized: • becomes important enough to be included in the business strategy and Decent working conditions • the way we manage and report on non-financial issues. Health and safety • Our process for identifying materiality provides a future focus for our Compliant business practices • sustainability work and helps us analyze our impact across the value Capacity building • chain. It provides us with deeper insights into stakeholders’ expectations of Securitas, how we should develop our sustainability agenda and how Diversity and equal opportunity our stakeholders perceive the outcome of our progress and strategy. In addition to the information we obtain through regular communicaThe areas where the stakeholders think that Securitas performs best tion with our stakeholders, we conducted a stakeholder dialog in 2019 to included complaint business practices/anti-corruption, human rights, collect input regarding our sustainability work and performance. This diadecent working conditions, and privacy and confidentiality. A clear majorlog was carried out in the form of a web-based survey sent to stakeholder ity (76 percent) of the stakeholders also confirmed that Securitas underrepresentatives. stands their priorities and expectations. Securitas Annual and Sustainability Report 2019 145 S USTA I N AB I L I T Y NOT E S Based on the materiality analysis, we have decided to focus on the Suppliers of uniforms and electronic security equipment are among areas listed below in our sustainability work. those defined as critical suppliers, meaning suppliers whose failure to perform in accordance with our specific requirements could severely impact Securitas’ performance or brand, locally or globally. OUR FOCUS AREAS Suppliers’ adherence to our anti-corruption policy is also a key area Material aspect for Securitas GRI Topic for monitoring performance. While selecting, assessing and monitoring Anti-corruption 205 Anti-corruption critical suppliers, we also evaluate whether the supplier has established Occupational health and safety 403 Occupational health and safety a selection procedure, and conducted risk assessments of its own critical suppliers. Talent training and retention 401 Employment Labor practices, non-discrimination 404 Training and education and human rights 405 Diversity and equal opportunity Memberships and engagements in organizations Securitas is a member in the following industry organizations: • Client relations 418 Client privacy International Security Ligue • Aviation Security Services Association International (ASSA-I) • ASIS International Sustainability governance • National organizations for security companies in most countries where we operate, such as the National Association of Security Companies The Board of Directors decides on Securitas’ sustainability strategy and (US), Bundesverband der Sicherheitswirtschaft (Germany), Cámara policies together with the President and CEO of Securitas AB, who has Argentina de Empresas de Seguridad e Investigación (Argentina) and ultimate responsibility for the realization of the Group’s sustainability the Hong Kong Security Association (Hong Kong) work. The Group has an Ethics and Sustainability Board, which establishes the principles for the Group’s sustainability work and follows up International commitments • UN cases of alleged non-compliance with Securitas’ Values and Ethics Code. Global Compact • The board meets regularly and comprises the Group’s President and CEO, International Security Ligue’s Code of Conduct and Ethics SVP General Counsel, SVP Group Brand and Communications and Group Sustainability officer. Our system for managing our work related to enviSustainability indexes • FTSE4Good ronmental, social and governance areas comprises six key components: Index Series 1. S ecuritas’ Values and Ethics Code: One of the company’s most • STOXX Global ESG Leaders important policies, Securitas’ Values and Ethics Code stipulates the Supplier rating systems and reporting • EcoVadis basic principles that Securitas expects its employees and business (silver level and industry leader) • CDP partners to follow at all times. Sedex • 2. Employee training: All Securitas employees undergo training in Securitas’ Values and Ethics Code. An in-depth e-learning program for managers and office personnel is available in more than 40 languages. Local-language e-learning and classroom training sessions are held for Management approach Anti-corruption the company’s security officers. Relevant employees also receive trainSecuritas has operations in 56 countries all over the world, and acting ing in other core policies, such as the anti-corruption policy. with integrity and ensuring we take an active stand against corruption are 3. System for reporting non-compliance: The Securitas Integrity prioritized issues. Certain markets are more challenging than others in this Line (known as Securitas Hotline in the US and Canada, and Linea de regard for example, countries with a low score in Transparency InternaAlerta in Mexico) is a Group system used for reporting cases of nontional’s Corruption Perceptions Index, but this does not mean that we do compliance with Securitas’ Values and Ethics Code. All employees and not actively monitor lower-risk countries. business partners are encouraged and expected to report any cases of Securitas’ Values and Ethics Code and the Securitas anti-corruption non-compliance, with the assurance that the reporter will not be subpolicy set out minimum requirements that ensure compliance with applijected to any negative consequences. cable local and extraterritorial laws. The anti-corruption policy also sets 4. R isk management: Non-compliance with Securitas’ Values and Ethics out the principle of zero tolerance for any corrupt practices, with clear Code is considered a risk, and as such, it has been classified as one of definitions, requirements for risk assessment, guidance regarding third seven priority risks in the Group’s enterprise risk management process. party relationships, training and follow-up. Local entities are subsequently These risks are followed up on a regular basis. asked to create their own detailed policies for gifts and entertainment. 5. M onitoring: To meet the demands of clients and other stakeholders Non-compliance with Securitas’ Values and Ethics Code and other key with respect to increased transparency and communication, Securitas policies is considered an operational risk, and as such, is part of the Group’s AB publishes a sustainability report that follows the Global Reporting enterprise risk management process (ERM). ERM is an integral component Initiative (GRI) standards. of Securitas’ operations, and risk awareness is part of the company culture. 6. Group Sustainability Officer: The Group Sustainability Officer leads Risk assessments are conducted within the framework of the Securitas the Group’s ongoing sustainability work and, in addition to following ERM process. Controls are performed on several levels within the organizathe regular reporting line, also reports to the Board of Directors’ Audit tion and are established based on the process concerned. Committee. Responsibilities include coordination of sustainability Relevant managers and administrative staff must complete a detailed activities across the Group, which involves working closely together e-learning course on the anti-corruption policy. Approximately 90 percent with other core functions. Other responsibilities include stakeholder of these employees have completed the course. engagement on sustainability issues, and supporting the Group’s Securitas encourages all employees to report incidents of non-complicountries of operation with respect to sustainability matters. ance with Securitas’ Values and Ethics Code or any irregularities that they encounter in their work. This can be done through various channels, for Supply chain example, the Group’s Securitas Integrity Line reporting system, which is We must ensure that our suppliers live up to our requirements, as set forth publicly available at www.securitasintegrity.com (Securitas Hotline in the in Securitas’ supplier and sub-contractor policies, and that they adhere to US and Canada, securitashotline.com/securitashotline.ca; Linea de Alerta Securitas’ Values and Ethics Code. A separate code of conduct for suppliin Mexico; lineadealerta.com.mx) ers will be implemented during 2020. 146 Securitas Annual and Sustainability Report 2019 S U S TA I N A B I L I T Y N O T E S Occupational health and safety Securitas has entered into framework agreements with UNI Global Health and safety work is vital to our operations. Our security officers are Union, the Swedish Transport Workers’ Association, and the European trained not only to protect themselves, but also to help others while on Workers’ Council in our European division. These agreements underline assignment, for example, by performing first-aid and CPR, and fire safety. our joint commitment to universal principles concerning business conA thorough risk assessment helps us identify and scope safety hazards. duct, as outlined by the UN Global Compact and ILO’s core conventions. The lessons we have learned from this approach have even become part They have also been influential when it comes to determining our level of the services we offer our clients. of ambition. In countries where Securitas does not have collective barSecuritas makes extensive efforts to ensure the health and safety of gaining agreements or union representation, we encourage other ways both our security officers and the individuals they must, from time to of maintaining an open dialog with our employees, including workplace time, act against. If threatening situations occur, the security officers are meetings, employee ombudsmen, call centers and channels for reporting instructed to avoid confrontation and await the arrival of the police. The concerns, such as the Securitas Integrity Line. vast majority of our security officers do not carry weapons. Those who As a leading player in the security market, it is important that we pay do have undergone specialist training and licensing requirements and are wages that meet or exceed industry levels. Securitas has sound prousually deployed on special assignments, for example, in a critical infracesses in place to ensure we live up to all legal standards and follow local structure facility such as an airport. and regional legislation and regulations regarding, for example, wages, Security officers receive appropriate training, instruction and equipworking hours, overtime, social security charges and taxation. ment for the assignment in question. We work actively with occupational health and safety issues in all countries. Our operations in 22 are OHSAS Client relations 18001/ISO45001 certified and most countries have health and safety Developing our intelligent security services offering will create significant committees. We closely monitor the number of work-related injuries and opportunities, but will also pose challenges and set high expectations to work-related ill health. deliver these solutions responsibly. It is vital that we protect the data that Breaches can be reported through various channels, for example, the we process on behalf of our clients. It is also essential that data is only Group’s Securitas Integrity Line reporting system. shared and retained based on client approvals, in accordance with applicable laws and in a way that protects the privacy rights of individuals. Talent training and retention Many large corporations have strict requirements for the use of big Securitas’ clients are increasingly demanding a higher degree of security data. It is important to be watchful and establish processes and practices and more advanced security solutions. We build on the experience and to safeguard data privacy. At Securitas, we have policies, processes and expertise of our employees, and employ people with various competentraining programs in place for managing these concerns, developed in cies, leveraging our competence to meet new challenges. As a result of accordance with the General Data Protection Regulations (GDPR) as well expanding business areas within data-driven intelligent services, Secuas local laws and regulations. ritas must employ people with new competencies that we have not had At a minimum, we address the negative implications of these technobefore and develop and empower our existing employees in new capacilogical advances by complying with all relevant legislative requirements. ties. With our focus on innovation, we provide our employees with the In addition, our policies – including Securitas’ Values and Ethics Code tools they need to help our clients stay safe. Using technology efficiently and purchasing guidelines – provide us with support in addressing these requires both a wide set of skills and specialized capabilities. issues. Our emphasis on risk assessment processes enables us to analyze Securitas has its own training centers in most countries of operation risks efficiently, including the more recent implications of increased digitiin order to ensure that the employees have the necessary competence zation in the industry and society as a whole. to provide clients with high-quality security services. By improving the knowledge and skills of employees, we contribute to their professional Environment growth and to a better understanding of the security profession. EmpowThe environment was not identified as a material topic in our materiality ering employees means a greater focus on training, skills and opportunianalysis, but as we are signatory of UN Global Compact, it is important for ties for professional development. We also encourage people to take on us to be transparent and work to combat climate change. We have thereresponsibility early in their careers. fore chosen to report our CO2 emissions anyway. The Securitas Group’s In 2019, the average number of training hours per employee was 26.7. emissions policy states that we should strive to continually reduce our We also conduct recurring employee surveys, the latest of which was climate impact, focusing primarily on the energy and transport areas. carried out in 2018. In Security Services Europe, the survey covered all The policy sets limits for CO2 emissions for new purchased or leased employees, while only managers and office personnel participated in company vehicles, and Securitas AB participates in CDP, formerly known Security Services North America. Our long-term ambition is to extend as the Carbon Disclosure Project. We strive to follow the Rio Declaration’s the survey to all employees in all major markets. The results of the survey precautionary principle regarding threats of serious or irreversible envishow that a sense of empowerment is a critical factor for employees’ job ronmental damage. The Group’s operations do not require a permit under satisfaction. the Swedish Environmental Code. Labor practices, non-discrimination and human rights Child labor and forced labor Securitas has a large workforce of 370 000 skilled and engaged employSecuritas does not employ or accept any form of child labor or forced ees, and working conditions are therefore important. Decent labor praclabor. In the countries where the Group operates, there are regulations tices, the right to organize, human rights and non-discrimination are all vital regarding who can work as a security guard, including age limits. Licenses to Securitas, our employees and our clients, and to our ability to attract and for security officers are not given to people under the age of 18. An retain people with the right skill sets and values to meet future demands. employee’s age is also verified in as part of the recruitment processes. We work in many diverse markets around the world and in all of them Securitas’ UK operations comply with the disclosure obligations under the we prioritize fair wages and working conditions. Securitas’ Values and Modern Slavery Act 2015. Ethics Code ensures that the company maintains and promotes the highSecuritas requires its suppliers to comply with Securitas’ Values and est ethical business standards, and we also use our influence as one of Ethics Code, which includes non-acceptance of child labor and forced the largest players in the industry in discussions with clients, unions and labor. industry associations. Securitas Annual and Sustainability Report 2019 147 S USTA I N AB I L I T Y NOT E S Sustainability risks assessment is a dynamic process that aims to identify and analyze risks At the highest level, the Board considers where future strategic opportuin relation to Securitas’ objectives. It serves as the basis for implementing nities and risks lie, and helps shape the corporate strategy. Balanced and mitigating actions after considering the controls in place (reduce, transfer/ focused risk management is necessary for the fulfillment of Securitas’ share or accept the risk in question). Sustainability risks are handled in the strategies and the achievement of its corporate objectives. same way. Our major sustainability risks are described below. Enterprise risk management is an integral component of Securitas’ For more information on the Group’s risk management process, see operations, and risk awareness is part of the company culture. Risk pages 45–51. RISK AREA DESCRIPTION CONSEQUENCE PREVENTIONS Working conditions Risk that labor practices, the right Licenses to conduct security Securitas has policies and sound to organize, human rights and operations could be lost, which processes in place to ensure we live non-discrimination may not be would lead to a loss of business, up to all legal standards and comply respected. a negative financial impact and with local and regional legislation brand damage. It might also lead and regulations. We have a global to difficulties in recruiting and framework agreement with UNI retaining employees. Global Union and the Swedish Transport Workers’ Association. Occupational health Risk that employees may be Poor health and safety procedures Employees are trained and safety injured or even die due to that put our employees at risk continuously to ensure that they inadequate health and safety can lead to reputational and can perform their tasks safely. processes and procedures. brand damage, a loss of business Adequate equipment must also be and difficulties in recruiting and provided. retaining employees. Access to talent Risk that we will not be able Not being able to fulfill our clients’ We must continuously improve to attract and retain the right requirements could lead to a loss of our recruitment and onboarding talent to remain a leader in the business and market position. processes, talent management development of the security and training, and use modern tools industry. for sharing knowledge and best practices. Training Risk that our employees may Not meeting client demands on Securitas has training centers not have the right competence us as a provider of high-quality in most countries and provides for their assignments or for professional security services both basic and highly specialized developing new services and the could lead to lost client contracts training for employees at all levels, business. and difficulties in recruiting and including skills that support the retaining employees. strategy of data-driven innovation and digitization. Securitas’ Values and Risk that employees or business Licenses could be lost, which Securitas has policies and sound Ethics Code partners might not comply with would lead to a loss of business, processes in place to ensure we live Securitas’ Values and Ethics Code a negative financial impact and up to all legal standards and comply and the company’s core values. brand damage. It might also lead with local and regional legislation to difficulties in recruiting and and regulations. We have a global retaining employees. framework agreement with UNI Global Union and the Swedish Transport Workers’ Association. 148 Securitas Annual and Sustainability Report 2019 S U S TA I N A B I L I T Y N O T E S RISK AREA DESCRIPTION CONSEQUENCE PREVENTIONS Ethical business standards Risk that employees or business In a worst-case scenario, this type Securitas has a zero-tolerance partners may be involved in of non-ethical business behavior policy against all forms of bribery corruption, unfair competition, could lead to a major negative and corruption. Without exception, conflicts of interest and other nonfinancial impact, a loss of business all employees and business ethical business behavior. and reputational damage. partners must comply with local laws and regulations as well as Securitas’ Values and Ethics Code and other key policies. Protecting data Risk that our data may not be Inadequate protection of data could Data protection and privacy are properly protected. lead to reputational and brand important and thus protected damage, a loss of business and through strong security, fines. organizational and technical measures. Securitas complies with all relevant legal requirements related to the protection of data and has policies, processes and training programs in place. Client relations Risk that we may not meet An inability to comply with our We must have an in-depth our clients’ sustainability clients’ sustainability requirements understanding of our clients’ requirements. could lead to a loss of business, a needs and industry-specific negative financial impact and brand requirements, and a business damage. that is sustainable in all areas. Our emphasis on employee safety and fair labor practices ensures that we deliver high-quality services. Security practices Risk that employees could act Acting in a way that contravenes Securitas has policies and sound in a way that is contrary to local the law, policies and conventions, processes in place to ensure that laws, authority regulations and and in a worst-case scenario we live up to all legal standards. Securitas’ policies and human contributing to human rights We conduct risk assessments of rights conventions. violations, could lead to the countries we operate in and of reputational and brand damage, a our clients, when necessary. As a loss of business and difficulties in signatory of UN Global Compact, recruiting and retaining employees. Securitas commits to its Ten Principles. Environment Risk that our operations could Not working to reduce our climate Securitas complies with or exceeds cause environmental damage. impact could lead to brand damage, the environmental requirements a loss of clients and difficulties in in the countries where we operate, recruiting and retaining employees. and we continuously work to reduce the consumption of resources, emissions and waste. Securitas Annual and Sustainability Report 2019 149 S USTA I N AB I L I T Y NOT E S Key figures NUMBER OF EMPLOYEES PER BUSINESS SEGMENT 2019 % of total 2018 % of total Security Services North America 121 000 33 122 000 33 Security Services Europe 124 000 34 128 000 35 Security Services Ibero-America 64 000 17 63 000 17 Other 61 000 16 57 000 15 Total 370 000 370 000 SALARIES AND BENEFITS PER BUSINESS SEGMENT MSEK 2019 % of total 2018 % of total Security Services North America 38 556 45 33 689 43 Security Services Europe 35 236 41 33 469 43 Security Services Ibero-America 10 303 12 9 712 12 Other 1 932 2 1 662 2 Total 86 027 78 532 GENDER DISTRIBUTION, AVERAGE NUMBER OF YEARLY EMPLOYEES 2019 2018 Men Women Total Men Women Total Number of employees 234 505 67 550 302 055 234 421 65 892 300 313 Percentage of employees 78 22 100 78 22 100 GENDER DISTRIBUTION, BOARD OF DIRECTORS 2019 2018 Men Women Total Men Women Total Number of Board members1 5 3 8 5 3 8 Percentage of Board members 62 38 100 62 38 100 1 Excluding employee representatives SHARE OF EMPLOYEES COVERED BY COLLECTIVE BARGAINING AGREEMENTS, % NEW EMPLOYEES (NUMBER) 2019 2018 2019 2018 Share of employees covered by collective Actual number1 149 283 154 116 2 bargaining agreements 59 56 % of average number of yearly employees 49 51 1 Does not include India and Vietnam 2 The total has been restated due to changed calculation method. EMPLOYEE TURNOVER, % 2019 2018 Employee turnover1 40 40 1 Does not include India and Vietnam NEW EMPLOYEES – AGE GROUP AND GENDER IN RELATION TO TOTAL NEW EMPLOYEES, % 2019 2018 Men Women Total Men Women Total Under 30 years 36 14 50 39 12 51 30–50 years 27 9 36 29 8 37 Over 50 years 11 3 14 9 3 12 150 Securitas Annual and Sustainability Report 2019 S U S TA I N A B I L I T Y N O T E S SHARE OF EMPLOYEES WITH FULL-TIME AND PART-TIME EMPLOYMENT, RESPECTIVELY, % SPLIT PER GENDER, % 2019 2018 2019 2018 Full-time 87 86 Full-time, men 70 70 Part-time 13 14 Full-time, women 17 16 Part-time, men 9 10 Part-time, women 4 4 SHARE OF EMPLOYEES WITH PERMANENT AND TEMPORARY WORK CONTRACTS, RESPECTIVELY, % SPLIT PER GENDER, % 2019 2018 2019 2018 Permanent 91 91 Permanent employees, men 72 72 Temporary 9 9 Permanent employees, women 19 19 Temporary employees, men 7 7 Temporary employees, women 2 2 WORKFORCE SPLIT ON EMPLOYMENT CATEGORY 2019 2018 Men Women Total Men Women Total Managers/office personnel 11 728 6 151 17 879 11 247 5 555 16 802 Security officers 275 730 69 464 345 194 274 996 68 306 343 302 Total1 363 073 360 104 1 The difference compared with total number of employees is explained by missing or inadequate information from certain reporting entities. AREA MANAGERS AND BRANCH MANAGERS, SPLIT ON GENDER Men Men, % Women Women, % Total Area managers 248 86 42 14 290 Branch managers 1 453 86 229 14 1 682 Total 1 701 271 1 972 SPECIFICATION OF YEARS OF SERVICE PER EMPLOYMENT CATEGORY 2019 % of total 2018 % of total Managers and office personnel Less than 1 year 3 122 17 2 962 18 1–2 years 3 349 19 2 450 15 2–5 years 3 162 18 3 280 19 5–10 years 3 121 17 2 963 18 Over 10 years 5 089 29 5 106 30 17 843 16 761 Security officers Less than 1 year 106 484 32 115 943 34 1–2 years 58 678 17 59 315 17 2–5 years 72 041 21 66 588 20 5–10 years 46 415 14 45 439 13 Over 10 years 53 390 16 56 014 16 337 008 343 299 Total1 Less than 1 year 109 606 31 118 905 33 1–2 years 62 027 18 61 765 17 2–5 years 75 203 21 69 868 19 5–10 years 49 536 14 48 402 14 Over 10 years 58 479 16 61 120 17 354 851 360 060 1 The difference compared with total number of employees is explained by missing or inadequate information from certain reporting entities. Securitas Annual and Sustainability Report 2019 151 S USTA I N AB I L I T Y NOT E S WORK-RELATED INJURIES TRAINING HOURS 2019 2018 2019 2018 Total hours worked 721 010 888 741 330 169 Total number of hours of training 9 677 595 9 084 536 Actual number of work-related injuries 6 456 6 131 Average number of hours of training per employee 26.7 25.2 Injury rate 1.8 1.7 Actual number of work-related fatalities 2 2 TRAINING HOURS, PER EMPLOYMENT CATEGORY 2019 2018 Notes: The injury rate is calculated based on 200 000 hours worked. Managers/office staff 428 026 370 739 Security officers 9 249 569 8 713 797 CAUSES, WORK RELATED FATALITIES 2019 2018 Traffic accident 2 1 TRAINING HOURS, PER GENDER Shooting, other fatal attack 0 1 2019 2018 Men 8 320 246 7 422 687 Women 1 357 349 1 661 849 WORK RELATED FATALITIES 2019 PER COUNTRY Traffic accident Assault USA 1 0 Costa Rica 1 0 PROPORTION OF SENIOR MANAGEMENT HIRED FROM THE LOCAL 2 0 COMMUNITY, % 2019 2018 Hired from local community 98 98 WORK RELATED FATALITIES 2018 PER COUNTRY Hired from outside local community 2 2 Traffic accident Assault Colombia 0 1 Portugal 1 0 1 1 152 Securitas Annual and Sustainability Report 2019 S U S TA I N A B I L I T Y N O T E S GROSS DIRECT EMISSIONS AND INDIRECT MARKET-BASED EMISSIONS OF CO 2 EQUIVALENT 2019 Direct Indirect Indirect (Scope 1) % (Scope 2) % (Scope 3) % Total % Security Services North America 34 159 25 2 437 9 7 284 14 43 880 20 Security Services Europe 72 821 54 21 557 76 29 095 54 123 473 57 Security Services Ibero-America 25 322 19 2 802 10 12 821 24 40 945 19 AMEA 3 312 2 1 332 5 3 692 7 8 336 4 Other 98 0 101 0 464 1 663 0 Total 135 712 28 229 53 356 217 297 Change compared to 2018, % 23 -6 3 13 tCO 2 emission per employee (full-time equivalent, FTE) 0.63 GROSS DIRECT EMISSIONS AND INDIRECT MARKET-BASED EMISSIONS OF CO 2 EQUIVALENT 2018 Direct Indirect Indirect (Scope 1) % (Scope 2) % (Scope 3) % Total % Security Services North America 22 625 21 2 336 8 8 747 17 33 708 18 Security Services Europe 60 601 55 23 322 77 27 998 54 111 921 58 Security Services Ibero-America 23 646 21 3 024 10 10 047 19 36 717 19 AMEA 3 169 3 1 406 5 4 006 8 8 581 4 Other 43 0 39 0 1 046 2 1 128 1 Total 110 084 30 127 51 844 192 055 Change compared to 2017, % 19 -1 -4 8 tCO 2 emission per employee (full-time equivalent, FTE) 0.57 2016 is the base year for the market based emissions, and it is chosen as continue to appear in the coming years. At the same time the growth in it was the first year that Securitas assessed its climate impact using the sales and FTEs shows that the emissions intensity has stayed more or market based calculation method. The boundary of the climate assessless constant during the past three reporting years, despite the increase ment includes 53 reporting units, the same units as currently reporting in total emissions. Emissions in both Scope 2 has continued to decrease in accordance with the location based method. whereas Scope 3 has increased slightly. The higher emissions in Scope 3 A GHG assessment quantifies all seven Kyoto greenhouse gases where refers to larger purchases of uniforms and also upstream emissions from applicable and it is measured in units of carbon dioxide equivalence, or vehicles. CO2e. For Securitas the following greenhouse gases are applicable and Emissions from business travel continues to decrease as many sites have been included in the assessment: referring to increased use of for example video conference meetings. Carbon dioxide (CO 2), Methane (CH4), Nitrous oxide (N2O). AVERAGE CO 2 EMISSIONS, ALL COMPANY OWNED AND LEASED Biogenic CO 2 emissions: 69.6 tonnes (2018: 22.2 tonnes) VEHICLES 2019 2018 The Greenhouse Gas Protocol Corporate Standard is a standard for Gram/km 141 139 reporting climate data. The system Our Impacts has been used as the calMax CO 2 gram per km for new minivans culation tool. Operational control is the chosen consolidation approach. (6–7 seater) 1701 /200 2 170 1 The increase in emissions is explained by improved quality of reported Max CO 2 gram per km for new company cars Scope 1 (vehicles) data. Securitas makes ongoing efforts to refine the (max 5 seater) 160 2 125 1 reporting in all its sites, why increases due to improved data quality might Number of vehicles 15 304 14 609 1 According to the calculation method NEDC 2 According to the calculation method WLTP Securitas Annual and Sustainability Report 2019 153 S USTA I N AB I L I T Y NOT E S SUBSCRIPTION TO/ENDSORSEMENT Client satisfaction surveys OF EXTERNAL DECLARATIONS, PRINCIPLES, ETC Clients are an important stakeholder group and client satisfaction surveys is OHSAS another way of maintaining a constructive dialog with this group. 18001 / COUNTRY ISO 9001 ISO 14001 ISO 27001 ISO45001 59 percent of all countries of operation conduct regular client satisAustria faction surveys. The share of satisfied clients lies between 75 and 95 Belgium percent. Bosnia and Herzegovina The three key conclusions from surveys conducted in 2019 are: Croatia • Service quality – most customers are satisfied with the service quality Czech Republic • Training training of the security officers can be further improved Denmark Estonia • Communication – more communication to make things easier for our clients Finland France Germany Hungary Ireland Latvia Montenegro Norway Poland Romania Serbia Slovakia Slovenia Sweden Switzerland the Netherlands Turkey UK Argentina Chile Colombia Costa Rica Ecuador Peru Portugal Spain Uruguay Australia Hong Kong India Morocco Singapore UAE Vietnam 154 Securitas Annual and Sustainability Report 2019 S U S TA I N A B I L I T Y N O T E S GRI-index Securitas AB’s sustainability report is prepared according to the Global Reporting Initiative (GRI) sustainability reporting standards, with the Core application level. Where relevant, this report also highlights how our priorities reflect the UN Global Compact’s Ten Principles for labor and human rights, the environment and anti-corruption and therefore acts as our UNGC Communication on Progress. UN Global GRI STANDARD Disclosure Page reference Note Compact General disclosures GRI 102: General Organizational profile disclosures 102-1 Name of the organization 57 102-2 Activities, brands, products, and services 25-29, 57 102-3 Location of headquarters 75 102-4 Location of operations 25 102-5 Ownership and legal form 162-163 102-6 Markets served 25-29 102-7 Scale of the organization 98 (note 10), 124 (note 39) 102-8 Information on employees and other workers 150-152 Includes data from the associated 6 companies in India and Vietnam 102-9 Supply chain 146 102-10 Significant changes to the organization and its supply chain 4, 61 102-11 Precautionary principle or approach 147 102-12 External initiatives 13, 146,154 102-13 Membership of associations 145, 146 Strategy 102-14 Statement from senior decision-maker 4-5 102-15 Key impacts, risks, and opportunities 8-9, 148-149 Ethics and integrity 102-16 Values, principles, standards, and norms of behavior 30-31, 146-147 10 102-17 Mechanisms for advice and concerns about ethics 146 Securitas Annual and Sustainability Report 2019 155 S USTA I N AB I L I T Y NOT E S UN Global GRI STANDARD Disclosure Page reference Note Compact General disclosures GRI 102: General Governance disclosures 102-18 Governance structure 34-39 102-20 Executive-level responsibility for 146 economic, environmental, and social topics 102-21 Consulting stakeholders on economic, 144-145 environmental, and social topics 102-22 Composition of the highest governance 35-41 body and its committees 102-23 Chair of the highest governance body 37, 39 Stakeholder engagement 102-40 List of stakeholder groups 144-145 102-41 Collective bargaining agreements 150 Includes data from the associated 3 companies in India and Vietnam 102-42 Identifying and selecting stakeholders 144-145 102-43 Approach to stakeholder engagement 144-145 102-44 Key topics and concerns raised 145 Reporting practice 102-45 Entities included in the consolidated 136 (note 52) financial statements 102-46 Defining report content and topic 145 boundaries 102-47 List of material topics 145 102-48 Restatements of information – 102-49 Changes in reporting – No changes in our focus areas have been made, compared with previous year. 102-50 Reporting period 144 102-51 Date of most recent report 144 102-52 Reporting cycle 144 102-53 Contact point for questions regarding the 144 report 102-54 Claims of reporting in accordance with the 144 GRI Standards 102-55 GRI content index 155-157 102-56 External assurance 158 Material Topics Anti-corruption Management 103-1 Explanation of the material topic 146 approach and its boundary 103-2 The management approach and its 146 components 103-3 Evaluation of the management approach 146 GRI 205: 205-2 Communication and training about anti146 Anti-corruption corruption policies and procedures Environment Emissions Management 103-1 Explanation of the material topic 147 Environment was not considered a material approach and its boundary topic in our materiality analysis, but as we are a signatory of UN Global Compact, it is important for us to be transparent and work for reduced climate impact, and we have therefore chosen to report CO 2 emissions anyway. 103-2 The management approach and its 147 components 103-3 Evaluation of the management 147 approach GRI 305: Emissions 305-1 Direct (Scope 1) GHG emissions 153 Includes data from the associated 7, 8, 9 companies in India and Vietnam 305-2 Energy indirect (Scope 2) GHG 153 Includes data from the associated 7, 8, 9 emissions companies in India and Vietnam 305-3 Other indirect (Scope 3) GHG 153 Includes data from the associated 7, 8, 9 emissions companies in India and Vietnam 156 Securitas Annual and Sustainability Report 2019 S U S TA I N A B I L I T Y N O T E S UN Global GRI STANDARD Disclosure Page reference Note Compact Social Employment Management 103-1 Explanation of the material topic 147 approach and its boundary 103-2 The management approach and its 147 components 103-3 Evaluation of the management 147 approach GRI 401: 401-1 New employee hires and 150 Does not include data from the associated 6 Employment employee turnover companies in India and Vietnam. Omission: Total number of leavers. Occupational health and safety Management 103-1 Explanation of the material topic 147 approach and its boundary 103-2 The management approach and its 147 components 103-3 Evaluation of the management 147 Includes data from the associated approach companies in India and Vietnam GRI 403: 403-1 Occupational health and safety 147, 154 Includes data from the associated 6 Occupational management systems companies in India and Vietnam health and safety 403-4 Worker participation, consultation and 147 Includes data from the associated communication on occupational health and safety companies in India and Vietnam 403-5 Worker training on occupational health and 147 Includes data from the associated safety companies in India and Vietnam 403-9 Number of work-related injuries 152 Includes data from the associated companies in India and Vietnam Training and education Management 103-1 Explanation of the material topic 147 approach and its boundary 103-2 The management approach and its 147 components 103-3 Evaluation of the management 147 approach GRI 404: Training 404-1 Average hours of training per year 152 Includes data from the associated 6 and education per employee companies in India and Vietnam. Omission: Average number of training hours per gender. Diversity and equal opportunity Management 103-1 Explanation of the material topic 147 approach and its boundary 103-2 The management approach and its 147 components 103-3 Evaluation of the management 147 approach GRI 405: Diversity 405-1 Diversity of governance bodies 150 Includes data from the associated and equal and employees companies in India and Vietnam. Omission: opportunity Split per age group. Client privacy Management 103-1 Explanation of the material topic 147 approach and its boundary 103-2 The management approach and its 147 components 103-3 Evaluation of the management 147 Includes data from the associated approach companies in India and Vietnam GRI 418: Client 418-1 Substantiated complaints 18, 147, 149 Includes data from the associated privacy concerning breaches of client privacy companies in India and Vietnam and losses of client data Risk for child labor 13, 147 1, 2, 5 Risk for forced labor 13, 147 1, 2, 4 Securitas Annual and Sustainability Report 2019 157 S USTA I N AB I L I T Y NOT E S This is a translation of the Swedish original report Auditor’s report on the statutory sustainability report To the general meeting of the shareholders in Securitas AB (publ) corporate identity number 556302-7241 Engagement and responsibility It is the Board of Directors who is responsible for the statutory sustain­ ability report for the year 2019 as outlined in the table below and that it has been prepared in accordance with the Annual Accounts Act. The scope of the audit Our examination has been conducted in accordance with FAR’s auditing standard RevR 12 The auditor’s opinion regarding the statutory sustainability report. This means that our examination of the statutory sustainability report is substantially different and less in scope than an audit conducted in accordance with International Standards on Auditing and generally accepted auditing standards in Sweden. We believe that the examination has provided us with sufficient basis for our opinion. Opinion A statutory sustainability report has been prepared. Stockholm, March 18, 2020 PricewaterhouseCoopers AB Patrik Adolfson Madeleine Endre Authorised Public Accountant Authorised Public Accountant Auditor in charge INFORMATION ABOUT: See page Environment 147, 149, 153 Social conditions 146-148 10-13, 30, 144, 147, Personnel 148, 150-152 Respect for human rights 13, 147 Anti-corruption 146, 149 Business model 10-11 Significant risks for sustainability 148-149 GRI index 155-157 158 Securitas Annual and Sustainability Report 2019 S U S TA I N A B I L I T Y N O T E S Securitas Annual and Sustainability Report 2019 159 QUARTE R LY DATA Statement of income 20191 MSEK Q1 2019 Q2 2019 Q3 2019 Q4 2019 Sales 26 195 27 134 28 106 28 125 Sales, acquired business 549 550 108 132 Total sales 26 744 27 684 28 214 28 257 Organic sales growth, % 7 5 4 2 Production expenses -22 113 -22 882 -23 238 -23 355 Gross income 4 631 4 802 4 976 4 902 Selling and administrative expenses -3 350 -3 443 -3 416 -3 428 Other operating income 8 9 9 8 Share in income of associated companies 1 9 5 15 Operating income before amortization 1 290 1 377 1 574 1 497 Operating margin, % 4.8 5.0 5.6 5.3 Amortization of acquisition related intangible assets -66 -70 -67 -68 Acquisition related costs -12 -17 -5 -28 Items affecting comparability -20 -46 -60 -83 Operating income after amortization 1 192 1 244 1 442 1 318 Financial income and expenses -139 -150 -149 -140 Income before taxes 1 053 1 094 1 293 1 178 Net margin, % 3.9 4.0 4.6 4.2 Current taxes -305 -318 -375 -202 Deferred taxes 12 18 18 -104 Net income for the period 760 794 936 872 Whereof attributable to: Equity holders of the Parent Company 758 795 935 869 Non-controlling interests 2 -1 1 3 Earnings per share before and after dilution (SEK) 2.08 2.18 2.56 2.38 Earnings per share before and after dilution and before items affecting comparability (SEK) 2.12 2.27 2.68 2.54 Statement of cash flow 20191 MSEK Q1 2019 Q2 2019 Q3 2019 Q4 2019 Operating income before amortization 1 290 1 377 1 574 1 497 Investments in non-current tangible and intangible assets -707 -780 -800 -723 Reversal of depreciation 640 660 701 689 Change in accounts receivable -133 -266 305 -145 Change in other operating capital employed -1 157 -45 390 535 Cash flow from operating activities -67 946 2 170 1 853 Cash flow from operating activities, % -5 69 138 124 Financial income and expenses paid -289 -55 -41 -58 Current taxes paid -250 -275 -299 -367 Free cash flow -606 616 1 830 1 428 Free cash flow, % -72 68 174 124 Cash flow from investing activities, acquisitions and divestitures -149 -233 -7 -185 Cash flow from items affecting comparability -66 -77 -54 -106 Cash flow from financing activities 1 022 -1 083 -953 -685 Cash flow for the period 201 -777 816 452 Capital employed and financing 20191 MSEK March 31, 2019 June 30, 2019 September 30, 2019 December 31, 2019 Operating capital employed 14 239 14 293 13 968 13 100 Operating capital employed as % of sales 13 13 13 12 Return on operating capital employed, % 43 43 47 50 Goodwill 21 903 22 070 22 801 22 157 Acquisition related intangible assets 1 508 1 523 1 507 1 563 Shares in associated companies 487 484 504 320 Capital employed 38 137 38 370 38 780 37 140 Return on capital employed, % 13 13 14 15 Net debt -19 290 -20 460 -19 415 -17 541 Shareholders’ equity 18 847 17 910 19 365 19 599 Net debt equity ratio, multiple 1.02 1.14 1.00 0.89 1 For definitions and calculation of key ratios refer to note 3. 160 Securitas Annual and Sustainability Report 2019 Q UARTERLY DATA Statement of income 20181 MSEK Q1 2018 Q2 2018 Q3 2018 Q4 2018 Sales 23 111 25 208 25 255 26 133 Sales, acquired business 245 258 566 691 Total sales 23 356 25 466 25 821 26 824 Organic sales growth, % 6 7 6 5 Production expenses -19 305 -21 039 -21 140 -22 086 Gross income 4 051 4 427 4 681 4 738 Selling and administrative expenses -2 977 -3 153 -3 241 -3 283 Other operating income 7 8 7 8 Share in income of associated companies 10 4 5 12 Operating income before amortization 1 091 1 286 1 452 1 475 Operating margin, % 4.7 5.0 5.6 5.5 Amortization of acquisition related intangible assets -63 -65 -67 -65 Acquisition related costs -9 -16 -16 -79 Items affecting comparability – – -268 -187 Operating income after amortization 1 019 1 205 1 101 1 144 Financial income and expenses -93 -103 -91 -154 Income before taxes 926 1 102 1 010 990 Net margin, % 4.0 4.3 3.9 3.7 Current taxes -213 -264 -237 -248 Deferred taxes -23 -7 -16 1 Net income for the period 690 831 757 743 Whereof attributable to: Equity holders of the Parent Company 689 833 756 738 Non-controlling interests 1 -2 1 5 Earnings per share before and after dilution (SEK) 1.89 2.28 2.07 2.02 Earnings per share before and after dilution and before items affecting comparability (SEK) 1.89 2.28 2.61 2.39 Statement of cash flow 20181 MSEK Q1 2018 Q2 2018 Q3 2018 Q4 2018 Operating income before amortization 1 091 1 286 1 452 1 475 Investments in non-current tangible and intangible assets -519 -556 -543 -570 Reversal of depreciation 380 415 449 449 Change in accounts receivable -274 -463 -451 -387 Change in other operating capital employed -1 603 119 507 915 Cash flow from operating activities -925 801 1 414 1 882 Cash flow from operating activities, % -85 62 97 128 Financial income and expenses paid -243 -39 -50 -100 Current taxes paid -260 -234 -146 -216 Free cash flow -1 428 528 1 218 1 566 Free cash flow, % -182 57 109 146 Cash flow from investing activities, acquisitions and divestitures -514 -721 -387 -133 Cash flow from items affecting comparability – – -24 -93 Cash flow from financing activities 804 312 -1 001 -491 Cash flow for the period -1 138 119 -194 849 Capital employed and financing 20181 MSEK March 31, 2018 June 30, 2018 September 30, 2018 December 31, 2018 Operating capital employed 9 598 10 514 9 847 9 199 Operating capital employed as % of sales 10 10 10 9 Return on operating capital employed, % 55 54 55 58 Goodwill 19 553 20 845 20 786 21 061 Acquisition related intangible assets 1 367 1 358 1 482 1 458 Shares in associated companies 424 452 442 452 Capital employed 30 942 33 169 32 557 32 170 Return on capital employed, % 15 15 15 15 Net debt -14 467 -16 732 -15 749 -14 513 Shareholders’ equity 16 475 16 437 16 808 17 657 Net debt equity ratio, multiple 0.88 1.02 0.94 0.82 1 For definitions and calculation of key ratios refer to note 3. Securitas Annual and Sustainability Report 2019 161 T HE S E C U R I TA S SHA RE The Securitas Share At year-end, the closing price of the Securitas share on Nasdaq Stockholm Shareholders based in Sweden hold 53 percent (49) of the capital and was SEK 161.45, corresponding to a market capitalization of 67 percent (64) of the votes. Compared with 2018, the proportion of forMSEK 56 171 (49 491). Earnings per share was SEK 9.20 (8.26), which eign shareholders in the shareholder base has decreased. At December represented a total change of 11 percent compared with 2018, and 6 31, 2019, shareholders outside Sweden owned 47 percent (51) of the percent when adjusted for changes in exchange rates. EPS before items capital and 33 percent (36) of the votes. The largest shareholdings held affecting comparability was SEK 9.61 (9.17), which represented a total by foreign shareholders are in the US and the UK, with 17 percent of the change of 5 percent compared with 2018, and -1 percent when adjusted capital and 12 percent of the votes in the US and 11 percent of the capital for changes in exchange rates. Adjusted for the negative impacts from and 7 percent of the votes in the UK. Foreign shareholders are not always the adoption of IFRS 16, as well as a higher tax rate compared to 2018, recorded in the share register. Foreign banks and other custodians may be EPS before items affecting comparability and adjusted for exchange rates recorded for multiple customers’ shares and the actual owners are then would have been 4 percent in 2019. not displayed in the register. At December 31, 2019, the principal shareholders in Securitas were Performance of the share in 2019 Investment AB Latour, holding 10.9 percent (10.9) of the capital and 29.6 At year-end, the closing price of the Securitas share was SEK 161.45 percent (29.6) of the votes, and Melker Schörling AB, holding 4.1 percent (142.25). The share price increased by 13 percent in 2019 to compare (4.5) of the capital and 10.7 percent (11.0) of the votes. These shareholdwith the OMX Stockholm Price index, which increased by 30 percent. The ers are represented on the Board of Directors by Carl Douglas and Sofia highest price paid for a Securitas share in 2019 was SEK 170.05, which Schörling Högberg. was noted on May 6, and the lowest price paid was SEK 136.75, which was noted on January 3. Dividend policy and cash dividend With a balanced growth strategy comprising both organic and acquisiTrading tion-driven growth and continued investments in security solutions and A total of 275 million (325) Securitas shares were traded on Nasdaq electronic security, Securitas should be able to sustain a dividend level in Stockholm, representing a value of MSEK 42 001 (47 720). The turnover the range of 50–60 percent of the annual net income. The Board of Direcvelocity in 2019 was 79 percent (92), compared with a turnover rate of tors proposes a dividend of SEK 4.80 (4.40) per share, corresponding 45 percent (48) for the entire Nasdaq Stockholm. The average number of to 52 percent of net income and 50 percent of net income before items Securitas shares traded each day was 1 099 300. affecting comparability. Based on the share price at the end of 2019, the The trading on Nasdaq Stockholm represented 40 percent of all traded dividend yield for 2019 amounted to 3 percent. Securitas shares in all categories of venues in 2019 (includes, for example BATS Chi-X Europe, Turquoise as well as dark pools and off-book). Authorization to repurchase shares in Securitas AB The 2019 Annual General Meeting resolved to authorize the Board of DirecShare capital and shareholder structure tors to resolve upon the acquisition of the company’s own shares up to a maxAt December 31, 2019, the share capital amounted to SEK 365 058 897, imum of 10 percent of all shares and for a period up to the Annual General distributed between an equal number of shares, each with a quota value Meeting in 2020. On June 24, 2019, 125 000 shares were repurchased. of SEK 1.00. Of these shares, 17 142 600 are Series A shares and 347 916 297 are Series B shares. Each Series A share carries ten votes Securitas share in brief and each Series B share carries one vote. The free float of the Securitas Series B Securitas shares are traded on Nasdaq Stockholm, part of Nasshare is 89 percent. daq Nordic, and on other trading venues such as BATS Chi-X Europe. At December 31, 2019, Securitas had 41 892 shareholders (32 197). Securitas is listed on Nasdaq Stockholm on the Large Cap List for comIn terms of the number of shareholders, private individuals make up the panies, which includes large companies with a market capitalization of largest shareholder category with 37 252 shareholders, corresponding more than MEUR 1000, and is included in the Industrial Goods & Services to 89 percent of the total number of shareholders. In terms of capital and sector. The ISIN code for the Securitas share on Nasdaq Stockholm is votes, institutional and other corporate entities dominate with 95 and 96 SE0000163594. percent, respectively. The ticker code for the Securitas share is SECU B on Nasdaq Stockholm, SECUB:SS on Bloomberg and SECUb.ST on Reuters. Securitas has been listed on the stock exchange since 1991. DATA PER SHARE SEK / share 2019 2018 2017 2016 2015 Earnings per share3, 4 9.20 8.26 7.53 7.24 6.67 Earnings per share before items affecting comparability 9.61 9.17 7.87 7.24 6.67 Dividend 4.80 1 4.40 4.00 3.75 3.50 Dividend as % of earnings per share 50 2 53 51 52 52 Yield, % 3.0 2 3.1 2.8 2.6 2.7 Free cash flow per share 8.95 5.16 6.27 4.71 5.93 Share price at end of period 161.45 142.25 143.20 143.40 130.00 Highest share price 170.05 164.05 151.80 152.90 135.00 Lowest share price 136.75 134.70 125.30 110.00 90.10 Average share price 153.43 146.96 139.07 132.01 115.80 P / E ratio 17 17 18 20 19 Number of shares outstanding (000s)3, 5 364 934 365 059 365 059 365 059 365 059 Average number of shares outstanding, after dilution (000s)3, 5 364 993 365 059 365 059 365 059 365 059 1 Proposed dividend. 4 Number of shares used for calculation of earnings per share includes shares related to the Group’s 2 Calculated on proposed dividend. share-based incentive schemes that have been hedged through swap agreements. 3 There are no outstanding convertible debenture loans. Consequently, there is no potential dilution. 5 On June 24, 2019, 125 000 shares were repurchased. 162 Securitas Annual and Sustainability Report 2019 THE SECUR I TAS S H AR E LARGEST SHAREHOLDERS AT DECEMBER 31, 2019 Shareholder Series A shares Series B shares % of capital % of votes Investment AB Latour 12 642 600 27 190 000 10.9 29.6 Melker Schörling AB1 4 500 000 10 419 039 4.1 10.7 State Street and Trust Co2 0 31 388 097 8.6 6.0 Lannebo Funds 0 14 930 992 4.1 2.9 HSBC Bank Plc2 0 11 970 684 3.3 2.3 Didner & Gerge Funds 0 10 403 258 2.8 2.0 BNY Mellon NA2 0 9 179 368 2.5 1.8 Swedbank Robur Funds 0 8 647 709 2.4 1.7 BNY Mellon SA/NA2 0 8 454 362 2.3 1.6 Carnegie Funds 0 7 325 000 2.0 1.4 Total, ten largest shareholders 17 142 600 139 908 509 43.0 59.9 Total, rest of owners 0 208 007 788 57.0 40.1 Total as of December 31, 2019 17 142 600 347 916 2973 100.00 100.00 1 In addition to the holding through Melker Schörling AB, holdings in the Schörling family of in total 7 200 shares are included. 2 Custodian banks. Source: Euroclear Sweden 3 Includes 125 000 shares that were repurchased on June 24, 2019. SHAREHOLDER SPREAD AT DECEMBER 31, 2019 Number of Number of Number of % of % of Number of shares shareholders Series A shares Series B shares capital votes 1–500 31 865 0 3 984 265 1.09 0.77 501–1 000 4 311 0 3 487 323 0.96 0.67 1 001–5 000 4 289 0 9 580 797 2.62 1.84 5 001–10 000 556 0 4 075 996 1.12 0.78 10 001–15 000 181 0 2 274 326 0.62 0.44 15 001–20 000 115 0 2 111 425 0.58 0.41 20 001– 575 17 142 600 322 402 165 93.01 95.09 Total 41 892 17 142 600 347 916 2971 100.00 100.00 1 Includes 125 000 shares that were repurchased on June 24, 2019.  Source: Euroclear Sweden Share prices for Securitas, January 1 – December 31, 2015–2019 Definitions Aktiekursen för Securitas, 1 januari 2015–31 december 2019 Free cash flow per share: Free cash flow in relation to the number of shares Share price Number of shares, 1 000’s outstanding. 170 Market capitalization: The number 160 of shares outstanding times the market 150 price of the share price at year-end. 140 P / E ratio (Price / Earnings): The share 130 price at the end of each year relative to 120 earnings per share after taxes. 110 40 000 Turnover velocity: Turnover during 100 35 000 the year relative to the average market 90 30 000 capitalization during the same period. 80 25 000 Yield: Dividend relative to share price 70 20 000 at the end of each year. For 2018, the 60 15 000 proposed dividend is used. 50 10 000 40 5 000 30 0 2015 2016 2017 2018 2019 Securitas AB Traded number of shares in 1 000’s per month OMX Stockholm Price Index OMX Stockholm 30 Index Source: Securitas Annual and Sustainability Report 2019 163 FIN AN C I AL I N FO R MAT ION A ND INV ITAT ION TO T HE ANNUAL GENER AL MEE TI NG Financial Information and Invitation to the Annual General Meeting Reporting dates Jefferies James Winckler Securitas will release financial information for 2020 as follows: J.P. Morgan Cazenove Sylvia Barker Morgan Stanley Edward Stanley Interim Reports 2020 Nordea Henrik Mawby January – March May 7, 2020 Pareto Securities Stefan Wård January – June July 29, 2020 RBC Capital Markets Andrew Brooke January – September November 3, 2020 SEB Dan Johansson January – December February 6, 2021 UBS Bilal Aziz Analysts that follow Securitas might change during the year. The list Financial information above is updated regularly and can be found at https://www.securitas. Our financial reports are available both in English and in Swedish and can com/investors/analyst-coverage-and-ratings/ be read and downloaded at our webpage at the following address: www.securitas.com/investors/financial-reports/ Annual General Meeting of shareholders We also offer an order and subscribe service of financial information at the in Securitas AB (publ.) following address: The shareholders in Securitas AB are hereby invited to attend the Annual www.securitas.com/investors/order-and-subscribe/ General Meeting (AGM) to be held at 4.00 p.m. CET on Thursday May 7, 2020 at Courtyard Marriott Hotel, Rålambshovsleden 50, Stockholm, Other questions concerning our financial information can be addressed to Sweden. Registration for the AGM begins at 3.00 p.m. CET. us through mail, telephone or e-mail: Securitas AB Notice of attendance Investor Relations Shareholders who wish to attend the AGM must: P.O. Box 12307 (i) be recorded in the share register maintained by Euroclear Sweden AB SE-102 28 Stockholm (Euroclear), made as of Thursday, April 30, 2020, Sweden and (ii) notify Securitas AB of their intent to participate in the AGM at the address: Telephone: +46 10 470 30 00 E-mail: ir@securitas.com Securitas AB, “AGM” www.securitas.com c/o Euroclear Sweden AB P.O. Box 191, SE-101 23 Stockholm, Sweden or Investor Relations activities conducted in 2019 by telephone +46 10 470 31 30 Securitas arranged an investor day in December. All the presentations or from the day can be found at: www.securitas.com/investors/presentavia the company website www.securitas.com /agm2020, tions/presentations-investor-days/. by Thursday, April 30, 2020, at the latest. During the year Securitas participated in investor meetings, investor conferences and roadshows in Chicago, London, New York and Stockholm. On giving notice of attendance, the shareholder shall state name, personal identity number or equivalent (corporate identity number), address and telephone number. A proxy form is available on the company website Financial analysts who cover Securitas www.securitas.com /agm2020 and will be sent by mail to shareholders COMPANY NAME NAME informing the company of their address and their wish to receive a copy AlphaValue Hélène Coumes of the proxy form. Proxy and representative of a legal person shall submit Barclays Paul Checketts papers of authorization prior to the AGM. As confirmation of the notificaCarnegie Mikael Löfdahl tion, Securitas AB will send an entry card, which should be presented at Citi Marc van’t Sant registration for the AGM. Credit Suisse Andrew Grobler DNB Karl-Johan Bonnevier In order to participate in the proceedings of the AGM, owners with Deutsche Bank Steven Goulden nominee-registered shares must request their bank or broker to have their Exane BNP Paribas Allen Wells shares temporarily owner-registered with Euroclear. Such registration Goldman Sachs Matija Gergolet must be made as of Thursday, April 30, 2020 and the banker or broker Handelsbanken Carina Elmgren should therefore be notified in due time before said date. HSBC Chirag Vadhia 164 Securitas Annual and Sustainability Report 2019 N SWA ECO C NOR LA DI BEL Printed matter 3041 0242 Production: Securitas AB in cooperation with Narva Print: Elanders, Sweden, 2020 Photo: Matt Fukishim: Cover, pages: 0,1 Unsplash: 8-9 Ingemar Lindewall: 5, 6-7, 10-11, 14, 16, 17, 18, 19, 20 (left and right), 21, 23, 24, 26, 27, 28 (right), 29, 33, 39, 41, 43, 44, 53, 159 Raf Ketelslagers: 20 (middle), 22 Nicolás Anguita: 28 (left) Mats Lundqvist: 30-31 Photo editing: Lena Hoxter Securitas Annual and Sustainability Report 2019 Securitas AB PO Box 12307 SE-102 28 Stockholm Sweden Visiting address: Lindhagensplan 70 www.securitas.com
