REPORT ON THE PROGRESS OF SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY 2019 Leader’s speech 3 About the Report 4 Company Overview 5 Human Rights 10 Labor Relations 12 Environment 19 Interlux Group of Companies in Society 20 Corruption Prevention 23 REPORT ON THE PROGRESS OF SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY 2019 LEADER’S SPEECH Having joined the United Nations Global Compact network eight years ago, UAB lnterlux and Interlux Group of companies have been adhering to the 10 principles of the Global Compact in the areas of human and labor rights, environmental protection and anti-corruption for almost a decade. In this sustainability report, we will tell you more about our development in terms of socially responsible activities and sustainable development in 2019. We will also review the regulations in force within the group of companies that ensure the highest protection of human and employee rights, declare the main gures describing equality between men and women, and other indicators describing the situation of the staﬀ. We will discuss the impact of companies on the environment and society, as well as our work to turn this impact into a positive one – oriented to the environmental sustainability for future generations, open communication with groups in society, developing a healthy lifestyle, raising public awareness in the eld of disease prevention and control. The year 2019 is historic for the Interlux Group of companies, both for the 25th anniversary of its successful activities on 31 March and for the extraordinary work done and its importance for the quality of diagnostics and treatment of diseases in Lithuania. Twentyve years of Interlux's operation have matured a sustainable and modern business model, which UAB Interlux has transferred to its subsidiaries in Lithuania – UAB Laborama, UAB Medita, UAB Multilabo, UAB Sormedica and representative oﬃces in Latvia and Estonia. Sustainability is an integral part of the DNA of the Interlux Group of companies, the basis of our values. Daily activities of the Interlux Group are based on optimally aligned processes based on ISO quality management system standards and a responsible approach to the employee and the user of our services. We are especially proud of the projects important for Lithuanian medicine completed in 2019, which set new standards – the installation of the rst robotic laboratory in Lithuania and the installation of a unique life-saving innovative oncological treatment system Gamma Knife, as well as the development of robotic surgery. In 2019, UAB Multilabo, the subsidiary of Interlux, was the rst in Lithuania to implement an open robotic laboratory system without analogues, which controls the entire sample testing process – from ordering the test to submitting the results and archiving the sample. The robotic laboratory diagnostics system installed in the Laboratory Medicine Clinic of the Lithuanian University of Health Sciences Kauno klinikos reduces the risk of possible human errors and increases the eﬃciency of the laboratory. Almost 3 million laboratory tests are performed in this laboratory per year, and more than 1,200 tubes enter the laboratory per day, so the automation of processes has made it possible to ensure much more eﬃcient laboratory diagnostic services in the region. Last year, we also contributed to the possibility of providing much more eﬀective treatment to oncology patients with brain tumors. For children, this is often the only eﬀective treatment. In 2019, our subsidiary Sormedica installed the Gamma Knife in the Lithuanian University of Health Sciences Kauno klinikos – a complex stereotaxic radiosurgery treatment device for extremely accurate and eﬀective treatment of central nervous system tumors with gamma rays. Usually, the patient goes home the day after surgery and returns to normal life. Gamma Knife treatment signi cantly reduces the risk of possible complications during the open surgery, so the treatment can be applied to a particularly wide range of patients. By concentrating on such complex projects, which are being implemented for the rst time in the country, we would not be able to implement them if we did not have a particularly strong, professional, motivated staﬀ, which is most connected by common values. Already when selecting employees, we take into account not only professional competence and abilities, but also the human value compliance with the microclimate of our group of companies. The trust of customers and partners, the enthusiasm and belief of employees, the importance of the tasks performed and the bene ts to society – all this encourages us not to stop and to pay even more attention to socially responsible projects every year, involving the team in sustainable activities and developing new sustainable project plans, so that as we move into the fourth decade of activity, we can share new and responsible work between you and us that creates a healthier, more innovative, safer present. And this year, we responsibly declare that we will continue to adhere to our provisions and commitments in the 10 principles of the Global Compact in the areas of human and labor rights, the environment and the ght against corruption, and support the United Nations Global Compact initiatives. Sincerely, Dr. A. Matuzevičius Director of Interlux ABOUT THE REPORT WE KINDLY INVITE YOU TO GET ACQUAINTED WITH THE 8TH Interlux Social Responsibility Progress 4 Report reviewing the achievements of the Interlux Group of companies in 2019 in the areas of human rights, labor relations, environmental protection and anti-corruption, as well as the contribution to the development of social initiatives in Lithuania. We have been evaluating our activities in the context of sustainability and preparing social responsibility reports since 2012, when Interlux joined to the network of 10 principles of the United Nations Global Compact. Reports are prepared in Lithuanian and English. Electronic reporting documents are published on the website www.interlux.lt and on the Global Compact website www.globalcompact.org . This Social Responsibility Progress Report is intended not only for the audiences interested in the company's activities – partners, employees, shareholders, the community, institutions, but also for everyone who wants to get to know the activities of the Interlux Group of companies in more detail. THE MAIN DIRECTIONS OF CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY OF THE INTERLUX GROUP: Ÿ TRANSPARENT and responsible activities Ÿ SOCIALLY RESPONSIBLE employment Ÿ Reduction of NEGATIVE IMPACT ON THE ENVIRONMENT Ÿ DEVELOPMENT OR SUPPORT OF SOCIAL INITIATIVES in areas such as healthy lifestyle, sport, art, safe, evidence-based medicine, scienti c progress, education of young researchers, ecology, protection of human rights, prevention of corruption, development of ethical and responsible business. REPORT ON THE PROGRESS OF SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY 2019 5 ABOUT INTERLUX GROUP OF COMPANIES The basis of the Interlux group of companies consists of the companies UAB Interlux, UAB Laborama, UAB Medita, UAB Multilabo, UAB Sormedica and representative oﬃces in the Baltic region – Interlux SIA and Interlux OU. Earned the trust of more than 300 world-class innovative medical, science and biotechnology manufacturers to represent them in Lithuania: BD, Tosoh, Agilent Technologies, Sebia, Bio-Rad, DiaSorin, Zimmer Biomet, Elekta, Nikkiso, Arkray, Qiagen, Randox, Boditech, Riester, EcoLab, Immucor, CAE, Vyaire, Beckman Coulter, NanoString, Lonza, Magritek, SureScreen Diagnostics, Physiomed, Mettler Toledo, Marsden, NewPort, Orphee, Miltenyi Biotec, Drucker Diagnostics, Ergoline, Somno Medics, Bowa, BK Ultrasound, Virion Serion, Merit Medical, Integra, Molecular Devices, Syft, Care Fusion, Corning, Danaher Corporation and many other manufacturers who have received the best Over 1000 reviews in the global science and customers trust the medicine community. companies of the Interlux Group – treatment, laboratory diagnostics and research institutions as well as private companies in the Baltic region. We provide a complete solution partnership model – we oﬀer the most innovative, scienti cally All based, safe, environmentally friendly and eﬃcient companies of the solutions selected by experienced Interlux Group are certi ed professionals, and we guarantee according to the ISO 9001:2015 quality professional user training and management standard – our business quality 24/7 maintenance and processes are properly improved in accordance service. with the procedure established in the standards. Interlux is a member of the Lithuanian Responsible Business Association (LAVA), the Lithuanian Business Confederation (LVK), the Lithuanian Medical Equipment Manufacturers Association (MIGA), the United Nations Global Compact and the National Network of Responsible Business Companies of this alliance. REPORT ON THE PROGRESS OF SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY 2019 6 STRUCTURE OF THE GROUP OF COMPANIES INTERLUX GROUP OF COMPANIES IN FIGURES: STAFF: >100 employees CUSTOMERS: >1000 healthcare, veterinary, scienti c and industrial companies and institutions in Lithuania, Latvia and Estonia PARTNERS: > 300 business partners worldwide REVENUE in 2019: > EUR 25 million REPORT ON THE PROGRESS OF SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY 2019 ABOUT THE COMPANIES BELONGING TO INTERLUX GROUP The parent company UAB Interlux (www.interlux.lt) organizes and ensures the activities of the entire group 7 of companies – smooth operation of individual chains, from ordering goods and logistics, maintenance and warranty service, to accounting, marketing, search and employment of quali ed specialists – staﬀ issues of the companies of Interlux Group. MEDITA (www.medita.lt) supplies reliable, safe products from worldrenowned manufacturers, which are most suitable for a modern family doctor's oﬃce or rehabilitation center, and solutions for primary health care, physiotherapy and medical rehabilitation. The company SORMEDICA (www.sormedica.lt) oﬀers innovative, eﬃcient technologies that expand the limits of medical possibilities, simulators for modern professional development of doctors, as well as a wide range of therapeutic, diagnostic, radiotherapy and surgical LABORAMA (www.laborama.lt) specializes in the segment of scienti c and laboratory research technologies, implementing innovative solutions in ow cytometry, clinical and industrial microbiology, molecular biology, cell biology. The company also supplies a variety of supplies for researchers and users of advanced laboratory technology. The company MULTILABO (www.multilab.lt) the youngest company in the Interlux Group of companies, founded in 2018, provides innovative analytical and in vitro diagnostic solutions for eﬃcient, reliable and highly accurate work of clinical and research laboratories, as well as donation and transfusion therapy. REPORT ON THE PROGRESS OF SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY 2019 ABOUT THE COMPANIES BELONGING TO INTERLUX GROUP 8 Interlux SIA (www.interlux.lv) is already in its second active decade in the Latvian market of medical devices, veterinary and laboratory diagnostics. It is a team of enthusiastic professionals whose vision is to improve ever yone's life by oﬀering modern and innovative products for healthcare and science. Reliable professionals in their eld constantly monitor market news and strive to oﬀer customers the latest and most eﬀective solutions. Interlux OÜ (www.interlux.ee) opened its doors in Tallinn in 2017, as the Interlux Group of companies implemented a strategic development plan in the Baltic States and strengthened sales abroad in individual business areas. The Estonian Interlux team is constantly growing and improving, emphasizing quality rather than quantity. Interlux OÜ, like other Interlux representative oﬃces, guarantees not only a smooth supply, but also customer training, consultations and professional 24/7 technical support and maintenance. REPORT ON THE PROGRESS OF SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY 2019 THE COMPANIES OF THE INTERLUX GROUP OPERATE ACCORDING TO THE SUSTAINABLE BUSINESS MODEL 9 Ÿ Responsible, sustainable staﬀ policy and socially responsible employment; Ÿ Standardized activities – the Interlux Group of companies is certi ed according to the quality management system standard LST EN ISO 9001:2015, proving that the group companies operate by constantly improving the quality of services. The audit report of the independent auditor performed in 2019 identi es the following strengths of the management system of the companies of the INTERLUX Group: ü Management attitude, commitment to quality ü Clarifying the understanding of the importance of customer needs for all employees (information) ü Staﬀ competence ü Continuous improvement of the system ü Identi cation of applicable regulatory requirements and their enforcement ü The name of a trusted company in the market ü Sustainable supply chain – socially responsible, top-quality global suppliers developing safe and environmentally friendly solutions; ü Ethical activities, active prevention of corruption and other misconduct and training. MISSION To improve people's health, VISION create value for patients and To be the ﬁrst choice of medical sta , meet their needs customers and pa ners in the by implementing a new implementation of medical and generation of advanced, safe research technologies in the and e ective next generation Baltic States. technologies. REPORT ON THE PROGRESS OF SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY 2019 HUMAN RIGHTS 10 THE COMPANIES OF THE INTERLUX GROUP and their employees oppose any human rights violations, discrimination, violence, harassment, forced and child labor, intolerance of attitudes and lifestyle, health status and condition. Human rights are respected in the teams of all companies of the Interlux Group and in communication with customers. Normative acts of the group of companies, which contain provisions ensuring human rights and providing for the prevention of possible violations are the following: Ÿ Code of Conduct of the Interlux Group of companies Ÿ Equal opportunities policy and its implementation procedure Ÿ The aim is to ensure equal rights, opportunities and responsibilities for jobseekers or existing employees, regardless of their gender, race, nationality, language, origin, social status, belief or opinion, age, sexual orientation, disability, ethnicity or religion. Ÿ Regulations on the use of information and communication technologies and on the monitoring and control of employees in the workplace Ÿ The aim is to establish the procedure for video surveillance, use of information and communication technologies and surveillance of employees' electronic communication in the companies of the Interlux Group. Ÿ Employee personal data retention policy and its implementation procedure Ÿ The aim is to establish rules ensuring the security of employees' personal data, to regulate the processing of personal data, ensuring compliance with and implementation of the Labor Code of the Republic of Lithuania, the Law on Legal Protection of Personal Data and other laws and legal acts establishing personal data protection, to regulate the procedures of personal data processing, the implementation of the rights of data subjects, technical and organizational data security measures. In order to eﬀectively ensure the protection of personal data, a new position of Data Protection Oﬃcer has also been created in the Interlux Group of companies, which primarily helps all responsible employees of the Interlux Group of companies to properly and maximally ensure the right of all people to personal data protection. Ÿ Rules of procedure of UAB Interlux and its subsidiaries, which provide for the following employee rights: Ÿ 14.2.1. To require the employer to create safe, health-friendly and non-discriminatory working conditions; Ÿ 14.2.2. To demand that the employer provide work equipment, personal protective equipment and personal hygiene equipment in accordance with the established procedure; Ÿ 14.2.3. To receive information from the employer about substances harmful to the employee's health and dangerous factors in the work environment; Ÿ 14.2.4. To refuse to work if there is a risk to health, life and work in which the employee is not trained to perform safely; Ÿ 14.2.5. To claim compensation for damage caused to the employee's health due to unsafe or harmful working conditions in accordance with the established procedure; Ÿ 14.2.6. To submit proposals to the employer regarding the improvement (amendment) of the Company's rules of procedure. REPORT ON THE PROGRESS OF SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY 2019 HUMAN RIGHTS 11 Human rights monitoring In 2019, no manifestations of discrimination were observed, no staﬀ complaints or appeals against human rights violations were received in the companies of the Interlux Group. In 2019, there were also no discrepancies related to the principles of the Global Compact. Preventive measures The companies of the Interlux Group have e-mail, by which any employee can report to the management about any form of discrimination or human rights violations. There is an approved and publicly announced Complaints Management Procedure, which sets out the timeframe within which complaints of possible human rights violations must be investigated, who is responsible for dealing with these complaints. Human rights are respected in the internal and external communication of the companies of the Interlux Group: Information, advertising, other communication material distributed by Interlux is strictly controlled and cannot be: Ÿ related to any form of visual or audio discrimination, Ÿ related to violence, Ÿ cannot promote discrimination or intolerance to attitudes, lifestyles, health conditions or state. REPORT ON THE PROGRESS OF SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY 2019 LABOR RELATIONS 12 STAFF OVERVIEW In 2019, the Interlux Group of companies had 97 employees, eight less than in 2018 – the group of companies performed an analysis of work functions and the eﬃciency of work performed by speci c employees and made decisions to ensure more eﬃcient work, introduced new work ow models, making some posts redundant and providing an opportunity to focus even more on employee motivation. According to the functional areas of activity, in 2019 the Interlux Group of companies employed: 16 administrative staﬀ, 55 sales staﬀ, 11 service staﬀ, 7 nancial staﬀ, 8 supply staﬀ. According to education, in 2019, the Interlux Group of companies had 92 % of the employees with higher university education, 2 % with higher non-university education, 6 % with higher education and 0 % with secondary or special secondary education. SA LE S 55 STA FF IN ST IST A R 16 FF ATI VE AD M SE RV IC E FI 11 ST NA AF F ST NC A IA 7 FF L SUPPLY STAFF 8 REPORT ON THE PROGRESS OF SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY 2019 STAFF POLICY PRIORITIES 13 The priorities of our staﬀ policy are continuous, and we consistently strive to set goals for the achievement of each of the priorities on an annual basis: Ÿ Selection based on values and knowledge; Ÿ Absolute enforcement of employee's rights; Ÿ Eﬀective motivation; Ÿ Increasing employee loyalty and job satisfaction in the company; Ÿ Responsible employment. MONITORING EQUAL OPPORTUNITIES Gender distribution in the company: In 2019, the company had 93 employees, of which: 48 45 No employee worked under xed-term employment contracts. Both women and men in the companies of the Interlux Group have unrestricted access to their additional days oﬀ, such as statutory parental days oﬀ. In 2019, a total of 131 statutory parental days oﬀ were used. nterlux Group of companies also ensures the free and unrestricted right to maternity and paternity leave related to responsible parenting, for example, in 2019, there were granted: Ÿ 1 681 days of parental leave and Ÿ 71 days of paternity leave Sick leave and parental leave are equally tolerated for women and men. A total of 163 days were missed in 2019 due to illness and 90 days due to nursing. As every year, women spend more days caring for a patient, usually due to the responsibilities of the responsible mother to the child: Ÿ Due to illness, men missed 73 days in 2019, women – 90 days, Ÿ Due to nurding, men missed 8 days, and women – 72 days. REPORT ON THE PROGRESS OF SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY 2019 RESPONSIBLE FROM THE VERY BEGINING 14 Every employee who has signed an employment contract with a company belonging to the Interlux Group of companies is acquainted with the following documents, which allow the new employee to have a good understanding of the entire scope of the company's regulation, its rules, and etiquette in the company: Ÿ Rules of procedure Ÿ Code of conduct Ÿ Instructions for implementation of compliance with competition law norms Ÿ Employee personal data retention policy and procedures for its implementation Ÿ Rules on the processing of personal data Ÿ Regulations on the use of information and communication technologies and on the monitoring and control of employees in the workplace Ÿ Procedure for declaring con icts of interest in the company Ÿ Privacy policy Ÿ Remuneration system Ÿ Equal opportunities policy and its implementation procedure Ÿ Clothing regulation Ÿ Job instructions All new employees also read the Newcomer Book , which introduces not only the company's structure, staﬀ policy, but also the organizational culture, values and traditions. REPORT ON THE PROGRESS OF SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY 2019 MOTIVATION FINANCIAL, EDUCATIONAL, CULTURAL, VALUE 15 When interviewing employees, what motivates them the most to work in Interlux Group of companies, the most frequently repeated answers were the following: Ÿ Great, intelligent, friendly team with a very good sense of humor. Ÿ Good microclimate and high value system. Ÿ Dynamic and interesting nature of work. Ÿ Involvement in the decision-making process. Ÿ Result orientation. Ÿ Encouraging motivational measures and engaging, interesting after work activities with the team. We pay special attention to creating a positive, learning and development-friendly, respectful microclimate in the team. We encourage all employees to constantly improve and grow. We create conditions to get to know each other as well as possible. We encourage cooperation and synergy between individual business units, divisions and companies. We believe that the promotion of appropriate, positive behavior acts as one of the best motivational measures and at the same time protects against inappropriate behavior that violates human rights. We also create safe, digni ed, ergonomic working conditions, take care of the highest level of work safety, invest in training, the highest quality work equipment, clothing, creating a unique company label and style. Interlux Service and Logistics departments have their own clothing, which we have scrupulously selected taking into account the wishes of employees and striving to make this clothing not only a part of the internal identity, but also would allow employees to feel as comfortable as possible at work. We strive to make every employee of the Interlux Group of companies feel valued, heard, and able to contribute to the development of tasks, the setting of organizational plans and its growth. Motivation for actively pursuing common goals Every year, employees who have performed their duties very well are nominated and encouraged – the sales managers who have achieved the best results, the most enterprising employees, employees who have successfully implemented the most complex projects, and so on. Interlux Group of companies also awards bonuses for good work and LUX's motivation system is in place – LUX is a monetary bonus given by the immediate manager to his/her subordinates for the assessed and recognized contribution to the results of the joint work of the Interlux Group companies. REPORT ON THE PROGRESS OF SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY 2019 MOTIVATION FINANCIAL, EDUCATIONAL, CULTURAL, VALUE Global motivation measures – to foster the health of employees 16 When choosing motivational measures, the companies of the Interlux Group pay attention to the fact that these have a positive eﬀect on the health and well-being of employees. The following health-related motivation measures are provided to all employees of the Interlux Group companies: Additional health insurance As for many years in a row, in 2019, all employees who worked for the Interlux Group for 3 months were provided with additional health insurance, which allows employees to pay more attention to sports, a full vitamin-enriched diet or wellness procedures. Preventive health check-up In 2019, all employees who wished were able to come to an organized annual preventive health check-up, which signi cantly contributes to the prevention of various diseases, employees receive signals about areas they should be examined or signs of potentially ongoing health disorders. In uenza vaccinations In 2019, as every year, before the start of the active u season, all employees who wished were vaccinated against the u. Determination of resistance to measles In 2019, a measles epidemic broke out in Lithuania, spreading uncontrollably among people of diﬀerent ages, so employees of Interlux Group of companies also threatened to get sick if they were not vaccinated against measles in childhood, or if suﬃcient immunity did not develop after vaccination. To help dispel doubts and take preventative action, Interlux has made it possible for all employees to have an IgG antibody test for measles to see if the body has immunity to the measles virus. Those employees who did not have strong immunity were encouraged to get vaccinated against measles. Promoting an active lifestyle An active lifestyle undoubtedly contributes to the prevention of various diseases and improves the condition of the human body, which is why the companies of the Interlux Group strive to encourage colleagues to pay as much attention as possible to active leisure. For example, support for the Interlux Group corporate runner team, which has become a tradition, has been extended. Anyone could register for the mass races and run with colleagues from the Interlux Group of companies, wearing T-shirts with the logo. The company reimburses registration fees for sporting events. The needs of the employee are in the rst place The companies of Interlux Group enable their employees to reconcile work and family responsibilities. They can choose to work on a exible schedule, thus combining work and personal, family responsibilities. Students have the opportunity to combine studies and work. The company also shows solidarity with the employee in a moment of trouble or joy – for example, when an employee's child is born, a family member dies, or the employee marries for the rst time, the company provides the employee with an additional nancial bene t. Also, employees with preschool children were granted additional health insurance in 2019 REPORT ON THE PROGRESS OF SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY 2019 PERFORMANCE EVALUATION ENCOURAGING GROWTH WORK COUNCIL 17 As every year, in 2019, all employees were evaluated at the end of the calendar year, when the Interlux Group of companies organized an employee performance evaluation which takes place between the employee and his/her immediate manager during their interview. During this private interview, the achievement of the goals of the previous period and the competencies and personal qualities of the evaluated employee that aﬀect the performance of the work are assessed according to clear and pre-agreed criteria. Also the future operational challenges and areas for improvement are set during that interview. The purpose of the annual interview is to nd out how the employee feels in the company, whether his/her needs are met, whether the employee does not feel discriminated against, or whether his/her rights are not otherwise restricted in the organization. Employee performance evaluation is performed in the following companies of UAB Interlux and Interlux Group: UAB Labdata, UAB Laborama, UAB Medita, UAB Multilabo and UAB Sormedica. WORKS COUNCIL As every year, the Interlux Group of companies has a Labor Council, an independent body whose purpose is to strengthen the dialogue between employees and management. The Works Council meets at least once a month or when issues arise. The Work Council encourages team members to communicate with management, to report any violations of the Code of Conduct, possible human rights violations, or other issues. The Works Council also communicates regularly with the staﬀ, asks for their views on possible changes and proposes them to the management. REPORT ON THE PROGRESS OF SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY 2019 INTERACTIVE AND GRATIFYING INTERNAL COMMUNICATION 18 The day-to-day internal communication of the company group takes place in the electronic space, here the company tells about the following through e-mails, company accounts on the Linkedin.com platform and other means: Ÿ Structural, management-related, nancial, other internal changes and decrees of the company; Ÿ Newly issued procedures and policies; Ÿ Personnel news – messages about new employees and those with whom the company says goodbye are distributed; Ÿ Internal communication, event impressions, etc. Employees are especially fond of joint events, during which they not only listen to information, share experiences, but also go kayaking, go to museums, drive non-standard vehicles, listen to classical music or play team-building games. At the end of 2019, before Christmas, we organized the second blood donation campaign of the team. The staﬀ of the National Blood Center provided a bus, by which the staﬀ supporting the idea of blood donation were transported to the National Blood Center in several shifts and donated blood there. REPORT ON THE PROGRESS OF SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY 2019 ENVIRONMENT 19 INTERACTION WITH CUSTOMERS, PARTNERS AND UNITED INTEREST ORGANIZATIONS By being active in the market, we communicate and build certain relationships and impact on various groups in the social environment. The main groups we interact with are our customers, shareholders, partners, employees, branch and valueoriented organizations of which we are members, local communities. Business partners In the business environment, we are based on the principle of sustainable development, rst of all paying great attention to the choice of business partners. We represent only sustainable, world-renowned manufacturers who create eﬃcient, reliable, safe, certi ed, environmentally friendly solutions. When deciding on a partnership, we evaluate potential partners' publicly available sustainability, responsible activity reports, supply chain, environmental friendliness of raw materials used, environmental impact, product certi cates to meet the highest ecological, safety and eﬃciency standards. In this way, we ensure that medical, scienti c and other institutions in Lithuania reach only high-quality, safe and ergonomic, eﬃcient technologies and tools for employees and patients, and we promote the development of innovative personalized medicine in Lithuania. Customers In the business and social environment, the companies of the Interlux Group follow the highest principles of ethics and sustainability. When communicating with customers, we adhere to a clearly stated, comprehensive Code of Ethics of the Interlux Group of companies, and we perform anti-corruption monitoring and preventive analysis. In order to achieve a sustainable relationship with the social environment, as every year we prepare promotional visual, audio, electronic and other forms of material, we have ensured that externally broadcast information about our products and services or other communicated information is only correct, scienti cally based, non-misleading, complete and professional. Membership in sustainable organizations We want to actively contribute to the creation of a social environment, existing standards alone are not enough for us – we seek to promote business in Lithuania to pay more attention to sustainability, to choose a socially responsible business model, as well as to seek legal regulation favorable to sustainable and responsible business, which encourages investment in projects that ensure a sustainable environment and promote sustainable development. We believe that public and open declaration of values, declaration of sustainable examples and escalation of topical issues that slow down the development of socially responsible business in the country can help create more favorable conditions and encourage more companies to choose the path of sustainable business. We participate in the activities of public organizations based on the principles of transparency, reduction of harmful impact on the environment, conservation of resources, ensuring equal opportunities, prevention of corruption: Ÿ Lithuanian Responsible Business Association – membership since 2013; Ÿ Lithuanian Medical Equipment Manufacturers Association – membership since 2013; Ÿ Lithuanian Business Confederation – membership since 2016; Ÿ Association of Food Supplement Manufacturers – membership since 2016 REPORT ON THE PROGRESS OF SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY 2019 SOCIAL PROJECTS 20 Every year, we support or organize public actions and projects that encourage the public to pay more attention to disease prevention, to ensure the availability of the most eﬀective treatment measures for all patients in Lithuania, and to promote a healthy lifestyle. Instead of entertainment – support for the little oncology patients The values of sustainable business cherished for a quarter of a century have led to the decision to choose to contribute to better medical care for the little patients suﬀering from oncological diseases, instead of sophisticated entertainment, on the occasion of the company's 25th anniversary. To make Interlux's extraordinary birthday, instead of statuettes, memorials, or other quick-to-forget items, we decided to donate an amount equal to 25 per cent of the number of bills issued last year to a charity and support organization helping people with serious illnesses. All the employees of the Interlux Group company team decided together which organization to support, interactively voting for one of the four proposed charity projects during the quiet birthday celebration. Three areas of support received the most attention, during the interactive voting and competing for the largest number of votes – palliative care for single elderly people, support for children with rare serious diseases and support for the little oncology patients. Finally, the charity and support foundation Rugutė , founded by Edita and Dainoras Abrukauskas, who knew up close the way to ght oncological disease, took the lead. We are happy to contribute to the very important mission that Rugutė is implementing. After being involved in the decision-making process for the charity, the members of the Interlux team learned about the activities of the diﬀerent support organizations, loaded with good emotions, contributing to a socially responsible step, and per haps were inspired to do good wor k themselves, says Dr. Audrius Matuzevičius, the Head of UAB Interlux. REPORT ON THE PROGRESS OF SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY 2019 SOCIAL PROJECTS 21 We s u p p o r t a n d e n c o u r a g e y o u n g researchers and doctors As every year, we have contributed to the support and encouragement of young scientists, doctors and inventors to develop the most innovative technologies and to strive for global recognition in Lithuania. We are very proud of our long-term young partners – Vilnius-Lithuania iGEM team, which won a gold medal in 2009 for the optogenetics project Colight . We are proud of you, continue to create the future of life sciences and show the world how intellectual, wise and innovative young people from Lithuania are! We are very happy to be near you. Paralympians are a real pride of the sport On the eve of Christmas, the Interlux Group company Medita, which is developing the eld of family medicine, contributed to the project MOVE MEANINGLY and presented Paralympic Aušra Garunkšnyte with a blood lactate meter, which is especially important for the proper preparation of Aušra for the Tokyo Paralympic Games. In 2019, we also contributed to the publication of information material related to the promotion of screening for patients with oncological diseases – cervical cancer, prostate cancer, as well as the spread of tuberculosis, HIV, diabetes, cardiological and other diﬃcult-to-treat diseases. We educate the public about the importance of timely diagnosis of diseases, we contribute to the e d u c a t i o n a l a n d p re ve n t i ve a c t i v i t i e s o f associations and medical societies created by patients with various complex diseases. REPORT ON THE PROGRESS OF SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY 2019 ECOLOGY AND PRESERVATION OF THE ENVIRONMENT 22 Following our supply chain, we ensure that we import into Lithuania only environmentally friendly products manufactured in compliance with the highest environmental requirements, so the direct impact of our group of companies on the environment is minimal. We recycle packaging Only by utilizing obsolete packaging or supplying products to Lithuanian medical institutions with work cars, perhaps we take a more negative eﬀect on the environment. Therefore, we strive to ensure that the packaging is disposed of safely without harming the environment, and we renew the company's car eet only taking into account the environmental impact characteristics of the new car. Interlux Group of companies ensures that all packaging of goods sold is recycled. In 2019, Interlux Group companies transferred packaging to the PMO (Packaging Management Organization): Ÿ Plastic – 4.5 t Ÿ Paper – 33.3 t Ÿ Glass – 3.5 t Ÿ Wood – 5.5 t Ÿ PET – 0.5 t Ÿ Combined packaging (mainly paper) – 5.1 t Ÿ Combined packaging (paperless) – 2.5 t We collect batteries safely Batteries, accumulators, waste electrical and electronic equipment used for the needs of the employees of the Interlux Group of companies are safely collected and disposed of to the Electronics Manufacturers, Importers and Distributors Association (EPA). We protect wood resources We encourage all employees to use paper to a limited extent, where possible, to abandon the printing of documents and to switch to electronic accounting. We order pens from recycled paper for the needs of the company and for organized events. REPORT ON THE PROGRESS OF SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY 2019 PREVENTION OF CORRUPTION In 2019, as in previous years, no violations of the Code of Conduct by the employees were recorded in the Interlux 23 Group of companies, as well as no complaints or warnings were received regarding illegal activities that violated the law and ethical norms. We constantly encourage all employees to behave with dignity, and emphasize that Interlux Group of companies does not tolerate corruption under any circumstances and at any level. Last year, the Code of Conduct of the Interlux Group of companies was updated. The new version of the Code of Conduct emphasizes, inter alia, the following elements that are particularly relevant to the prevention of corruption: Ÿ ”Loyalty to the company is manifested through the need to inform the immediate manager and the company's director about all observed cases of signs of corruption or other criminal activities. Employees who are disloyal to the company may not work in a managerial capacity or work involving con dential information.” Ÿ ”The employees of the company, based on their competence, must do everything possible to prevent any manifestations of corruption.” Ÿ ”No employee may receive personal gain in an unfair manner. Situations in which the employee's liability to the company and the con ict of his/her personal interests may arise must be avoided” Ÿ ”The employee must avoid any circumstances that could damage the company's reputation or other tangible and intangible interests of the company.” Ÿ ”We base our relations with competitors on the principles of honesty and mutual respect. In the event of any disagreement or contradiction in the conduct of a competitive action, priority shall always be given to negotiation and compromise. Fair competition is a fundamental principle of the company's operations.” Ÿ ”No employee may make any payments, give bribes, oﬀer unfair nancial bene ts to customers or other persons performing public functions, thereby seeking to maintain a commercial relationship” Ÿ ”Employees of the company are strictly prohibited from accepting any gifts in the performance of their work functions, as well as from giving or receiving any money or concluding contracts for personal remuneration from customers, business partners, their representatives. Employees of the company shall not grant any hidden privileges to customers, business partners, representatives of the state or municipality, or public institutions.” Ÿ ”Employees are strictly prohibited from rewarding customers, business partners, representatives of the state or municipality, or public institutions, and other third parties with whom the company has business aﬀairs for gifts or all other forms of illegal payments, services, or other remuneration for favourable decisions.” Ÿ ”The company never seeks to gain a business advantage in an illegal way.” Ÿ ”An employee of the company who suspects that any third party (client, colleague, etc.) is trying to involve or use him in concluding an illegal transaction must notify the company's manager in writing. In case of doubt, the employees should seek advice and guidance from their immediate manager or legal-personnel manager. Any employee who notices possible manifestations of corruption or other misconduct can also anonymously write to the e-mail box prevencija@interlux.lt.” As every year, we updated our knowledge in the anti-corruption trainings mandatory for all employees of the group of companies, where professional lecturers provided new knowledge on the concept of corruption, ways of its manifestation, criminal liability for corruption, and corruption prevention. Interlux Group of companies also lls in declarations of employment and private interests – each new employee must ll in a declaration of public and private interests and withdraw from processes that could reduce the transparency of public procurement. In 2019, as in previous years, no cases of corruption were recorded in the lnterlux group of companies. In 2019, the Interlux Group of companies operated ethically, transparently, without violating the 10 principles of the United Nations Global Compact, and will strive to maintain the highest levels of responsibility, reliability, sustainability and anti-corruption in the coming years and beyond. REPORT ON THE PROGRESS OF SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY 2019 THANK YOU! 23 th Thank you for your time and attention in reading the 8 Social Responsibility Progress Report of the Interlux Group of companies! REPORT ON THE PROGRESS OF SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY 2019
