UN Global Compact Veritas Communication on Progress 2020 2020 ww.veritas.com Financial Year 2019 Corporate Responsibility Highlights Veritas enables organizations to harness the power of their information by committing to ethical and responsible global corporate citizenship, promoting a talented, diverse, and inclusive workforce, and engaging in sound environmental practices. Whether it’s volunteering, reducing greenhouse gas emissions, or taking time to celebrate a diverse workforce, #LifeAtVeritas means investing in positive environmental and social impact around the globe. Veritas’ seven Employee Resource Groups (ERGs), made up of 40 chapters globally, are a cornerstone of this positive impact. “Veritas’ corporate responsibility approach is truly exemplified by the dedicated work of our ERGs. Making a positive impact in the communities that surround us, celebrating our unique differences, and lightening our environmental footprint are examples of our culture and life at Veritas.” Chief Human Resources Officer Sophie Ames UN GLOBAL COMPACT VERITAS COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS 2020 | www.veritas.com Corporate Citizenship Veritas works to create a positive social impact on communities around the globe. ERG Spotlight: $817,300+ donated to charities worldwide, including employee donations and the Veritas dollarfor-dollar match program. An 8% increase compared to FY18 numbers. $1.9 million in-kind software licensing donations to nonprofits around the world through Veritas’ partnership with TechSoup. 11,060+ hours volunteered by Veritas employees. A 150% increase compared to FY18 numbers. In support of #GivingTuesday in November 2019, the Bay Area Giving at Veritas Empowered (GIVE) ERG organized an event in support of the Second Harvest Food Bank of Silicon Valley. Over 65 Veritas employees, including CHRO Sophie Ames and CIO John Abel, sorted and packaged more than 19,400 pounds of food for lowincome individuals, seniors, and families and children in need. Launch of the first Veritas Pro Bono program Veritas ran the first Veritas Pro Bono Workshop in the Roseville, MN office in 2019. The Pro Bono Workshop positions Veritas to capitalize on the unique talent and strong presence it has in the communities where employees live and work to make real, positive change. The Veritas Pro Bono Workshop supports local nonprofit organizations in addressing critical organizational challenges in areas that can be difficult for nonprofits to access and afford on their own. It also provides an opportunity for employees to apply their unique professional skills to support societal challenges they care about while furthering their own personal and professional growth and development. “I LOVED how every member of our team played an important role – from the seasoned employees to those who are earlier in their career. I valued everyone's contribution, and it was wonderful to see how everyone had an open mind to all those involved in the process. It says a lot about the work environment at Veritas.” Jennifer Hadley, Database Coordinator, Friends of the Mississippi River. UN GLOBAL COMPACT VERITAS COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS 2020 | www.veritas.com Diversity and Inclusion Veritas strives to attract, develop, promote, retain, and fully engage diverse and talented individuals to enhance innovation and employees’ sense of belonging. As a repeat signatory to both the United Nations Global Compact (UNGC) and the Women’s Empowerment Principles, Veritas supports the elimination of discrimination with respect to employment and occupation. Veritas has also joined a growing coalition pledging to advance diversity and inclusion in the workplace. As one of more than 550 CEOs who have come together for CEO Action for Diversity & Inclusion, CEO Greg Hughes committed himself and Veritas to advancing diversity and inclusion in the workplace. This work sets the foundation in building effective policies and procedures to support the increased representation of women across all functional areas and at all levels of the organization. To further embed an inclusive mindset within the company, attention is focused specifically on: • Rolling out a Diversity and Inclusion training globally in January 2020. • Continuing to examine and improve recruitment practices. • Supporting Women at Veritas Empowered (WAVE) ERG that empowers women and encourages them to improve their professional opportunities. • Supporting all employees in balancing their work and life commitments through the continued promotion of flexible working practices. ERG spotlight: As part of its support for empowering women in the computing and technology industries, Veritas is aiming to increase representation of women and minorities in the workforce through close collaboration with the leadership and Human Resources teams. Data as of 12/31/2019 Female Male Engineering roles 23% 77% Non-engineering roles 30% 70% Total 28% 72% The company proudly participated in the TechWomen mentorship program, an initiative of the U.S. Department of In 2019, around the world, Veritas employees State’s Bureau of Educational and Cultural Affairs, for a came together on International Women’s Day fourth consecutive year.. (IWD) to support the annual theme #BalanceforBetter by discussing and finding ways to build a more gender-balanced world. The participation from Veritas employees was mind-blowing with over 2,300 photos collected from around the world to take part in the photo challenge. UN GLOBAL COMPACT VERITAS COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS 2020 | www.veritas.com Environmental Sustainability Veritas believes that doing the right thing for the environment drives company growth. As a company, Veritas is committed to reducing its overall greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions, energy, waste, water, and materials usage across the organization—with the goal of implementing concrete actions to improve Veritas’ environmental performance. Veritas promotes environmental sustainability not only within its operations, but also with its partners and supply chain. ERG spotlight: The Veritas Corporate Responsibility team continued to expand the company’s “5Rs campaign” (Refuse, Reduce, Reuse, Repurpose and Recycle), which has been rolled out globally by Sustainability at Veritas Empowered (SAVE) ERGs. This initiative encourages employees to take small actions to create big change, such as “refusing” singleuse items. In support of this campaign, many sites are switching to using reusable dishware. 14% reduction in greenhouse gas emissions in FY19 from FY18 levels, by reductions in data center electricity use, office average emissions factor and business travel. 1,543 trees planted on behalf of the same number of Veritas employees as part of the “Plant trees, Fight Climate change” campaign, organized by SAVE for Earth Day 2019 UN GLOBAL COMPACT VERITAS COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS 2020 | www.veritas.com Supply chain An integral part of Veritas’ third Corporate Responsibility pillar, Environmental Sustainability, is the Supply Chain Sustainability Program. Veritas’ global supply chain spans activities related to the manufacture, assembly, fulfillment and transport of Veritas’ physical products. Veritas works with six “Tier 1” suppliers (or those with whom the company has a direct contract in place to provide services or material inputs for finished goods) worldwide. Veritas’ commitment to improving the social, environmental and ethical responsibility of its supply chain is becoming increasingly important. Veritas is focused on exemplifying best practices related to responsible materials sourcing and careful supplier management, and upholds high standards for quality and operational efficiency. This work is opening new business opportunities as Veritas strives to meet its own expectations, as well as those of customers, prospects and other stakeholders. Supply chain governance In 2016, Veritas became an Affiliate Member of the Responsible Business Alliance (RBA), an industry coalition dedicated to corporate social responsibility in global supply chains. Veritas also became an ENERGY STAR® partner, demonstrating support for energy efficient products and practices. As RBA members, Veritas supports the rights and well-being of all workers and communities affected by its supply chain, as outlined in the RBA Code of Conduct. In addition, Tier 1 suppliers are required to adhere to Veritas’ Global Supplier Code of Conduct, which describes standards and expectations for labor, health and safety, the environment and business ethics. In 2018, Veritas became Regular RBA Members, a designation reflecting improvements in the program according to the RBA’s strict set of social, environmental and ethical performance standards. This expanded membership level is helping the company further build compliance programs using RBA tools and ensuring that Veritas addresses issues and emerging risks in its supply chain. UN GLOBAL COMPACT VERITAS COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS 2020 | www.veritas.com Supply Chain Sustainability Program Veritas Supply Chain Sustainability Program promotes transparency and identifies emerging risks and opportunities. Veritas further embeds sustainability principles into its standard operating supply chain procedures for sourcing, contracting and compliance. This approach helps give preference to suppliers that demonstrate better management of environmental, social and economic impacts within their production and supply processes. It also helps avoid suppliers whose practices are not in line with the company’s sustainability expectations. Specifically, as of FY19: • 66% of Tier 1 suppliers completed RBA Corporate and Facility Self-assessment questionnaires (SAQ). • Veritas ranked all active strategic suppliers for their compliance to the RBA: all Tier 1 suppliers were assessed Low or Medium Risk. Achieving an ethical and sustainable supply chain—Veritas’ Supply Chain Sustainability Program is made up of four key focus areas, allowing Veritas to unlock business value in the form of better supplier partnerships, enhanced resiliency, and improved products and services. UN GLOBAL COMPACT VERITAS COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS 2020 | www.veritas.com Product responsibility Veritas prioritizes opportunities to reuse spare parts and relocate old inventory to avoid the purchase of new equipment. Equipment that has reached the end of its useful life is sent to responsible vendors for proper recycling. These vendors offer services such as hardware retrieval, asset tag and identifier removal, sorting, and environmentally responsible data wiping, cleaning, and destruction procedures. Under the Waste Electrical and Electronic Equipment Directive (WEEE) Act, Veritas is required to provide arrangements for the collection, treatment, recycling and recovery of any new electrical and electronic equipment purchased from Veritas. For information on collection and recycling in your area, please visit the Veritas WEEE Compliance and Battery Recycling webpage. As an ENERGY STAR partner, one of Veritas´ product energy efficiency objectives is to qualify storage products to the ENERGY STAR program criteria. The company has set up a process to ensure that all new products scheduled to launch will meet Energy Star requirements. In 2019, Veritas joined ENERGY STAR Canada and received the ENERGY STAR Canada Special Recognition Award for “excellence in energy efficiency and sustainability.” In addition to the ENERGY STAR Canada Special Recognition Award, Veritas’ accomplishments for 2019 included: • Certified 100% of its hardware products to ENERGY STAR specifications. • Established sustainable product requirements for the design and architecture of all future products to meet ENERGY STAR specifications. • Launched a new concept delivering enterprise data protection services based on container technology—using up to 68% less energy and 79% less space over standard models. • Introduced new product packaging with an environmentally friendly look, including the ENERGY STAR logo. • Promoted the ENERGY STAR Day pledge via social media, featuring energy-saving and ecofriendly practices employees could initiate at work and in their homes. • Developed a new Supply Chain Sustainability webpage that details the ENERGY STAR program as well as the organization’s commitment to developing energy efficient products. Human rights Veritas works to preserve and uphold human rights throughout the company and the supply chain. Veritas has a zero-tolerance policy for forced labor, slavery, child labor, and human trafficking, as outlined in the Human Rights Policy, the RBA Code of Conduct, and the United Nations Global Compact. Veritas complies with the United Kingdom Modern Slavery Act of 2015, as well as the California Transparency in Supply Chains Act of 2010, which requires the company to disclose efforts to prevent human trafficking and slavery in its supply chain. Veritas updated its UK Modern Slavery Act Statement for FY19. Conflict Minerals In 2016, Veritas set a goal of validating all products manufactured for the company as “conflict-free” across all four conflict minerals categories by 2020. Veritas’ membership in the Responsible Minerals Initiative (RMI) is supporting this goal and as such, Veritas requires its suppliers to complete the RMI’s UN GLOBAL COMPACT VERITAS COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS 2020 | www.veritas.com Conflict Minerals Reporting Template (CMRT), which identifies mineral country of origin and the smelters and refiners being utilized. The CMRT also facilitates the identification of new smelters and refiners that should undergo an independent third-party audit to verify that they are “conflict-free.” As of 2019, 100 percent of Veritas’ suppliers have completed the CMRT, and 25 percent of in-scope suppliers provide products that do not contain conflict minerals. Additional company disclosures on conflict minerals can be found in the company’s Environmental Declarations of Compliance. Looking ahead As Veritas continues to make progress toward the implementation of corporate responsibility strategy and supply chain management priorities, the company is positioned for long-term sustainable growth. In 2020, Veritas is planning to: • Expand the skills-based volunteering program to other Veritas sites. The program will provide nonprofit organizations with world-class advisory support in areas that Veritas has unique expertise. The program will also offer employees a unique opportunity to give back to the communities in which they live and work. • Launch companywide diversity and inclusion training, including unconscious bias and microinequities. • Ensure that all new products launched are ENERGY STAR certified. • Set greenhouse gas emissions reduction goals and submit to the Science Based Targets initiative (SBTi) aligned to the 1.5 degree Celsius SBT scenario, including Scope 3 SBTi GHG reduction goal. • Quantify the company’s greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions for the most recent FY, including various indirect, or Scope 3, emissions linked to Veritas’ products and supply chain operations. • Rank all active strategic suppliers for their RBA compliance and ensure that suppliers in the top 80 percent of Veritas spending complete a Self-Assessment Questionnaire and conduct a Validated Audit Process with high-risk suppliers. • Assess Veritas’ worldwide packaging, WEEE, and battery obligations and join compliance schemes in those countries where Veritas is a producer. ABOUT THIS REPORT This report reflects Veritas’ corporate responsibility performance and progress—with a special emphasis on the supply chain program—during the 2019 fiscal year, specifically April 1, 2018 through March 31, 2019. For more information about Veritas’ Corporate Responsibility program, please visit: https://www.veritas.com/company/corporate-responsibility Please send any feedback you may have about this report to: corporate.responsibility@veritas.com. UN GLOBAL COMPACT VERITAS COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS 2020 | www.veritas.com
