UN Global Compact – Communication on Progress May 2020 Welcome to the 2020 edition of our Communication on Progress (COP) I am pleased to confirm that Cheval Blanc Kantiner A/S continues the support of the Ten Principles of The United Nations Global Compact in the areas of Human Rights, Labour, Environment and Anti-Corruption. As we have entered a new decade, the need to deal with issues related to the four areas has only increased. As a corporation, we must act and stand by our responsibilities towards people and planet. We see no discrepancy between pursuing our business goals and at the same time commit to values of humanity, health and climate action. In fact, we believe, it goes hand in hand. All over the world we now see the COVID 19 pandemic’s impact on societies, human lives and businesses in general. Unfortunately, many communities have been and are still suffering from loss of human life, unemployment and loss of business capital. It is no secret that our business is particularly influenced by such events, but it has only reassured us that our strategy to conduct business responsibly and work towards implementing the SDG’s and the principles of the UN Global Compact is the right choice. At Cheval Blanc Kantiner we take action to stem the COVID 19 outbreak and we protect our employees and clients for whom we serve meals every day. Our employees are our most valued asset and we have done huge efforts to avoid staff cuts. No one can predict the exact extent of the consequences, but it is our hope that we all soon will be facing brighter times. The year 2020 will go into history. Nonetheless we will continue our work concerning our responsibilities and how we conduct our business in a more sustainable manner. Claus Tingstrøm Landedirektør 2 Breaks that makes a difference About Cheval Blanc Kantiner Cheval Blanc Kantiner was founded in 1994 by professionals with great experience in the restaurant industry. We are specialists in canteen operation, and we operate 90 canteens throughout Denmark within the private, public and public-private sectors. 400 employees are daily serving lunch for approximately 23,000 people in Denmark. In 2018, Cheval Blanc Servicerestauranter and Claus Tingstrøm were merged and are now owned by Italian caterer Camst International s.r.l. (80%) and Claus Tingstrøm Holding (20%). Member of Danish Service Industry Employers’ Association Cheval Blanc Kantiner A/S is a member of the Danish Service Industry Employers’ Association. This means that we meet all the requirements of the Service Standard, which is a guarantee marking that is only awarded to members of the Danish Service Industry Employers’ Association. We meet the industry’s most stringent requirements regarding financial certificates, quality level, environmental considerations, working environment, human resources, education and subcontractors. Danish Standard continuously monitors compliance with all requirements. 3 THE SUSTAINABLE DEVELOPMENT GOALS Cheval Blanc Kantiner A/S takes a clear stand on social responsibility and sustainability. Our employees, our guests, our suppliers, our partners and our customers can be assured, that we always strive to make the most sustainable choices and decisions possible. We continually work to strengthen our position in regard of taking care of the climate, the amount of food waste we produce and of our work environment. We joined the UN Global Compact in 2011 with a promise to deliver on and commit to The Ten Principles of The United Nations Global Compact. In 2019 our main focus was working on new strategic partnerships, responsible consumption and reducing food waste by incorporating The Sustainable Development Goals (SDG’s) into our core strategy. Our overall CSR strategy includes the Sustainable Development Goals – especially the goals of; • Good health and Well-being • Quality Education • Responsible Consumption and Production • Climate Action • Life below water • Partnerships for the goals. 5 SDG Commitments Good Health and Well-Being We work with a health concept developed in collaboration with registered dietitians ensuring a healthy diet and a nutritious meal every day. Quality Education Our employees are trained through our unique training program. Annually, we review and renew the program to follow the latest research and knowledge about sustainable cooking. Life on Land As a part of our plan to enhance strategic partnerships we have been cooperating close with Aarstiderne. They possess great insights on how we can secure the best way of growing the vegetables and fruits we use in our canteens in accordance to the SDGs. Responsible Consumption We work with initiatives that reduce food waste, better manage available and Production resources and increase the amount of organic raw materials used. We practice responsible consumption through our concept “Gastronomic Compass”, that stresses the use of raw materials, that we use in the daily production. Climate Action We run two of the five canteens in Denmark labelled with the Nordic Swan Ecolabel. These canteens have made great efforts to reduce the environmental impact of cooking. They comply with high requirements for energy conservation, waste sorting and the use of a certain proportion of organic raw materials. Further they act as inspiration to other parts of the industry and our canteens in general. Life below water We always use responsibly sourced fish in the dishes we serve to our guests and customers. We are updated on The Danish Red List that provides an overall overview of endangered species. Partnerships for the Goals Our partners must comply with current legislation and conventions for a sustainable future. We are in dialogue with our suppliers on quality, transport, seasonality and sustainability. As mentioned earlier we also focus on strategic partnerships that can enhance our performance in regard to the SDGs Decent work and We are working with a thesis that sustainable inclusive economic growth economic growth is a very important factor to our business and to the society in general. We believe that decent work and economic growth increases employment opportunities (for the youth especially) and reduces informal employment. Further inclusive economic growth promotes safe and secure working environments which is one of the reasons why we have chosen to work closely with SDG number eight. The work environment of our employees and workers are in many ways a high-risk area and we have always invested in making our staffs conditions as safe as possible. This include correct equipment and a system to report any injuries so that we can work on minimizing these in all aspects of our business. Further many of our suppliers are located in the countries where they are exposed to undue risks in their workplaces and we feel that it is important that we buy ethical and as ecological as possible to undermine the risk of ex working with pesticides. These goals are of tremendous value to Cheval Blanc Kantiner and therefore in the following some of the most important elements will be elaborated. HUMAN RIGHTS AND LABOUR RIGHTS At our own locations we work with identification, assessment and reduction of risks and prevention of potential accidents, injuries and occupational illness at the workplace which is in line with the group identity. We cannot stress enough the importance of the health and well-being of our employees. Therefore, to protect our employees and people in general and to help slowing the spread of coronavirus in 2020 we have decided to send home our employees from work while receiving full pay. This decision was made from the first day that the government announced that they would issue a lock down of large parts of the country. We have made efforts to find solutions that are in line with our strategy and our business behavior in general. We reached out to all employees to find a solution that GOOD HEALTH AND WELL-BEING encompasses everyone, and we are extremely proud of the We acknowledge our huge responsibility towards our emgoodwill and cooperation we have been shown as 99.5% of ployees and the people our business is related to. As a group our employees has agreed to reduce their wages until 2021 so we produce and serve more than 116 million meals a day and that all possible for all employees to keep their jobs. when we as a group ensure that our guests and customers have access to healthy meals during the day our actions make QUALITY EDUCATION a great difference to people’s health and well-being.. We We continuously train our employees through our unique believe that our responsibilities do not only concern the meals training program. Annually, we renew the program so we that we provide during working hours in the canteens but also can offer our employees the best courses within cooking to the information on benefits from eating healthy. We have a skills, the latest food-trends and health. In 2020 we focus great impact on the food culture in general, especially when on plant-based foods and the cultivation of umami in green we introduce our guests to healthy meals and show new ways meals. We want our employees to take part and responsibility to prepare green and sustainable products. We try to inspire of their position at Cheval Blanc and strengthen the profesour guests to bring home the healthy eating habits. To do so, sional pride and passion for cooking with more greens in the we offer the recipes as part of a health concept developed in canteens. collaboration with registered dietitians ensuring a healthy diet and a nutritious meal every day. We believe that our meals contribute to better nutrition choices and better health and that the outcome is more than just well-being. It increases the ability to perform and think clearer, hence producing better results in the work hours. Some of the raw materials we use in the preparation of meals are from countries with other standards than we know from Denmark. Therefor all our suppliers must sign our Code of Conduct to ensure that they understand and adhere to the principles of UN Global Compact and our strict business ethics. 7 ENVIRONMENT RESPONSIBLE CONSUMPTION AND PRODUCTION In 2019 we entered a collaboration with the organic food At Cheval Blanc Kantiner we work with initiatives that reduce producer called Aarstiderne A/S. Every quarter, Aarstiderne food waste, better manage available resources and increase A/S measure the carbon footprint of their raw materials and the amount of organic raw materials used. We practice reimplement new eco-friendly initiatives in every part of their sponsible consumption through our Gastronomic Compass. business. Aarstiderne supplies a large portion of fruit and This concept is put forward to stress the importance of of raw vegetables available in our canteens. materials that we use in the daily production. It is important to us that our employees have a basic knowledge of the raw CLIMATE ACTION materials and their selection principles. We will continue the We run two of the five canteens in Denmark labelled with increase the use of seasonally available products in our meals the Nordic Swan Ecolabel. These canteens have made great – and we prefer to use products locally produced. When we efforts to reduce the environmental impact of cooking. They use raw materials produced in countries outside Denmark, comply with high requirements for energy conservation, waste they must be in season. sorting and the use of a certain proportion of organic raw materials. REDUCE FOOD WASTE When we contract a new canteen, we offer the customer a We have spent a great deal of time analyzing where we have green innovation check and help them integrate more susthe biggest impact on the different SDGs and we are aware tainable energy solutions and energy conservation. Furtherthat by initiating projects to minimize food waste we leave a more, we only use Eco-friendly labelled cleaning products in much lower carbon footprint. Therefore, we have been workour canteens. ing for many years to ensure improvements in this area. ANTI-CORRUPTION To minimize the amount of food waste in our canteens we: It is Cheval Blanc Kantiner’s policy and core value to follow • track and analyze our food waste in all canteen twice a national and international laws at all levels of our organization. year and follow up with further initiatives We do of cause also comply with all internationally recognized • have mandatory education of employees in the areas standards. of food waste reduction • have a food waste ambassador in all canteens that Cheval Blanc Kantiner A/S does not trade with suppliers of ensure compliance with policies on food waste prevention goods or services if they significantly breach the guidelines and reduction of Anti-Bribery in accordance to the UN Global Compact and • inform our guests in the canteens by running Code of Conduct. Bribery or corruption in any form is unacinformation campaigns on how to reduce food waste ceptable. • collaborate with Daka ReFood, that collect and recycle food waste and used cooking oil. The collected food waste We have not experienced or been made aware of any violais used in the production of biogas, a green and tions or misconduct to date. We will continue to focus on this CO2-friendly alternative to incineration. matter, and management will continue to inform employees about our Code of Conduct and our zero tolerance in respect ORGANIC FOOD to corruption. We strive for all our canteens to acquire The Organic Cuisine Label during 2020. That means that our canteens as a minimum can achieve an organic bronze certification (30-60%), which indicates the percentage of organic products in the eatery. 9 KEY TARGETS FOR 2020 • 75% of our canteens must at least be certified with the organic bronze certification, that indicate 30-60% organic products in the eatery. • 80% of all our canteens to get organic vegetables and fruit. • All our take-away must be packed in sustainable packaging • Eliminate all kind of single-use plastic containers • All our canteens must initiate even more efforts to reduce food waste and gain at least a 5% reduction in the overall food waste compared to 2019. The areas include: • Waste from production • Buffet waste • Serving more plant-based food. Plant forward meals bring the vegetables to the center of the plate without eliminating animal products. • Reduce our carbon footprint with 20 % from meat in 10 % of our canteens. Our procedure is as follows: • Baseline measuring – tracking our carbon footprint of meat. • User Surveys – we conduct a survey among our guests in the canteen, to find out how they prefere the reduction (one vegetarian day a week, less meat in each portion, no beef and lamb at all). 10
