Boccard garantit l’égalité des chances et prépare la relève Rapport Responsabilité Sociale d’Entreprise 2019 ro nnemen i ta E nv l Social Éthique Sol ire ida 1 Sommaire 03 Editorial Editorial In 2018, we very proudly celebrated “Our First 100 Years”, a 04 Our commitments symbol of the audacious and resolute route followed by our 06 Boccard at a glance elders and former Boccard staff. 2019 opens a new road to “Our Next 100 Years” which will question every generation Who are we? on our role in a global, open environment. Convinced that Our vision & our mission our company’s future will be guided by challenges that we can take up collectively, we have decided to bring our Our values customers, suppliers, and staff together, all as partners committed to guaranteeing equal opportunities for all and preparing the ground for the future. This 11 Social is the major ambition that catalyzes our Corporate Social Safety first Responsibility (CSR) commitment. Human capital Our commitment is Social as we have made the safety of Sharing our values together Boccard’s staff our priority. We favor initiatives to enable every one of us to make the performances of a flexible company his or her own, and we share common values 15 Solidarity together by our everyday behavior in respect of each other. Equal opportunities We have a Solidarity commitment as we guarantee equal Solidarity actions opportunities for all. We prepare for the future by helping the young in their first job and we support initiatives related to our values throughout the whole world. 18 Environment Transport We have a commitment to the Environment as the challenge on natural resources is our aim and adapting our Waste reduction offer to energy efficiency also helps our clients to take up this Energy consumption challenge. Green IT Our commitment is also Ethical as the fight against fraud and all forms of corruption is a prior requirement for business 21 Ethics which we want to be responsible. Loyalty & ethics Understanding our aim, identifying the issues at stake, Counterfeiting & corruption promoting and celebrating initiatives and systematically putting ourselves into question by means of new improvement Sustainable procurement strategies all help us to go forward together every single day. Bruno Boccard Patrick Boccard 3 Boccard adheres to the United Nations Global Compact Nos engagements through ten principles covered by corporate social responsibility in terms of human rights, environmental protection and good governance. Human rights Environment v ironnent 1. Promote and 2. Ensure that 7. Apply the 8. Undertake 9. Encourage En precautionary initiatives tending the development respect protection you do not approach of international knowingly aid and diffusion of to problems to promote greater environmentally law on human or abet human affecting the environmental rights rights violations friendly environment responsibility technologies Social Ethics So li THE 10 darity 3. Uphold the freedom of association and 4. Contribute to the elimination of all PRINCIPLES 10. Work recognition of the right discrimination in terms against all forms to collective bargaining of employment of corruption 5. Contribute to the 6. Contribute to the including extortion effective abolition of elimination of all forms and bribery child labor of forced or compulsory Our aims labor International labor standards The fight against corruption To offer everyone To guarantee equal To reduce any of our To fight against a successful and opportunities for all, significant fraud and all forms Declaration of our ongoing support to Global rewarding career in a and give support to environmental of corruption and positive and productive initiatives and solidarity impacts and encourage responsible collaborative actions in line with our act in favor of and ethical business. environment, with safety values. sustainable and quality development. is at the heart of everyone’s preoccupations. Our global assessment ECOVADIS is a CSR (Corporate Social Responsibility) assessment platform designed to assist companies in managing their performance and communicating on it. In 2020, received a silver medal for our CSR (Corporate Social Responsibility) performance EcoVadis. Boccard at a glance Who are we? S ince 1918 Boccard has been a major player both in France and throughout the world in the design and construction of increasingly productive and innovative industrial plants. Boccard, industrial turnkey constructor is a global plant and process solutions leader offering fully integrated digital expertise in Engineering, Manufacturing, Construction and Maintenance with over 3500 employees in 35 countries. Thanks to its excellence in project management based on its “Safety First, On Time, On Spec, On Budget, Customer Satisfaction” commitment, Boccard is a worldwide leader in providing Total Cost of Ownership (TCO) optimization solutions in industrial markets such as Nuclear, Oil & Gas, Power, Steel & Mining, or in process industries such as Brewery, Cosmetics & Hygiene, Food & Ingredients, Pharma & Biotech. En figures Boccard at a glance 1918 Boccard was 4th generation of a family dedicated 8 2013 Adhesion to the 3500 founded in France to industrial Markets United Nations’ Experts development World Compact throughout the world 35 countries 4 expertises: 1 commitment 2018 Engineering Excellence in project Celebrated its Manufacturing management, “Safety first 100 years! Construction First, On Time, On Spec, Maintenance On Budget, Customer Satisfaction” 6 7 Boccard at a glance Boccard at a glance Our vision & Nos marchés Brewery Nuclear our mission Cosmetics Oil & Gas & Hygiene Our vision ‘‘ Food & Ingredients Power A fully integrated digital industrial solution leader Pharma & Biotech Steel & Mining Our mission ’’ To create recurring value for all the stakeholders by offering reliable, Our business model intelligent, and sustainable worldwide industrial solutions, services and products throughout the industrial life cycle investment. «A la carte» «Menu» EXPERTISE FUNCTIONS To offer individual rewarding and fulfilling career within a positive and EN MAINTENANCE ENGINEERING N AN CE GI productive team environment with a safe and quality driven focus. MAIN R IN EE TE N G PROJECT PROJECT MANAGEMENT MANAGEMENT N MA TIO NUF UC AC MANUFACTURING CONSTRUCTION CO G NS RIN TR TU Our commitment Our history Safety First A family company for 4 generations since 1918. On Time Customer On Spec Satisfaction On Budget 8 9 Boccard at a glance Our values Undertake with AUDACITY AND TENACITY Commit with Evolve with PASSION AGILITY Strive for EXCELLENCE Build with RELIABILITY Social Evolve with Encourage RESPECT COMMUNICATION 10 11 Social Social Safety first Human capital Our aim Our aim To develop, to carry and to promote a culture To develop autonomy (competence & conducive to the achievement of our health commitment), favor initiative and accompany and safety objectives. career development Initiatives Initiatives Health / Safety Travels Equality between men and women Handicap Agreement Our safety booklet has been For the fourth consecutive time, the Administration updated to ensure the Safety Travel Risk Policy We undertake actions for guaranteeing equality demonstrated its support and confidence in Rules of Boccard. The Travel Risk Policy is a support for preventing between men and women in terms of salary, levels the company by approving its new agreement To face the Covid 19 medical and safety risks during international of responsibility and the gender mix in recruitment. on the development and maintenance of pandemic, we have put trips. We keep our staff informed and give them employment for people with disabilities, signed in place strong health documents and advice on trips to risk countries. Partnerships with schools and corporations on June 25, 2020 with our social partners. prevention measures in all our Through this agreement, the company continues its Business Units and projects. International SOS We have been establishing partnerships with commitment to equal opportunity and the success of These measures, both Worldwide support has been set up for informing different schools for several years and we now technical and organizational, each individual in a collaborative work environment. and protecting men and women on missions It is committed to uniting its teams around this social have enabled everyone to propose a large number of placements and respect the barrier gestures, throughout the world: International SOS, a medical issue, which contributes not only to the quality of life at wherever they are. help and safety organization for emergencies sandwich courses for preparing young people’s work but also to the company’s performance. anywhere in the world. All our staff benefits from professional projects. this system. An inter-school rugby tournament Social and cultural diversity Because of our international business activities in 35 called the Boccard’s Cup is organized countries, we give multinational project teams training Frequency Rate Gravity Rate every year in partnership with the in cultural diversity for making “working together” 93% INSA (French National School of easier. Indicators de nos projets, Engineering) n’ont pas eu Gender Equality Index d’accident avec In 2019 (reference period between Indicators arrêt de travail Training December 1, 2018 and November 30, The Boccard Academy offers our staff a large 2019) Boccard obtained a score of number of specific professional courses for perfecting and mastering their profession and 84. Ways of improvement enabling them to develop their skills. Percentage of women at Boccard • Promoting employee consultation and participation in our actions to improve our health & 24% safety management system. Ways of improvement • Raising employee awareness of Boccard Safety First rules • Encouraging pro-active behaviour and reporting of risk situations. • Promoting empowerment by giving teams authority for taking action 12 13 Social Sharing our values together Our aim Bringing everyone together and uniting them around our 7 corporate values to sustain corporate culture and attract new talents. Initiatives Challenges to live our values as a team We have brought together over a hundred staff members coming from all over the world, and representing the company’s different expertises, so that they could all express their experiences of Boccard’s culture and their Sol y expectations. We have communicated our 7 values in 9 languages to all of the company’s 3,500 members of staff. idari t Sports Collaborative Éco-citizen Solidarity activities Our employees get together The teams took part in the In association with France Nature every year around sporting WorldCleanUpDay, a global Environnement, our employees challenges that are as unifying Some of our sites in France have waste collection day. worked together to build a pond to as ever. installed logs in their buildings in protect and develop local biodiversity. order to preserve biodiversity and to share the benefits of the forest. Ways of improvement • Pursuing our aims over the coming years in sharing our values throughout the world. 14 15 Solidarity Solidarity Equal opportunities Solidarity actions Our aim Our aim To accompany youngsters and give each one To support initiatives and solidarity actions in line of them the “same opportunities” in social with our values and based on education and development. health. Initiatives Initiatives The Boccard Endowment Fund Le «Foyer Notre Dame des Sans-Abris» In United States For several years we have been supporting the Foyer A fundraiser of toys, books and gifts was organized for The main vocation of the Boccard Endowment Fund is the sick children of the Houston Hospital. Notre Dame des Sans-Abris in the implementation of to contribute to financing higher education to deserving Indicators initiatives promoting professional reintegration. In Romania undergraduates and give them equal opportunities for The children of our employees donated clothes, toys and 2017 success. Courir pour Elles / Run for life food to the community in the village of Valea Plopului. year of creation Each undergraduate is coached by a voluntary member 19 female employees took part in Run for Women on of Boccard’s staff to help them finish their studies May 19, 2019 to support the fight against women’s In Poland Our Polish teams have set up an IRONBOCMAN sports successfully and to participate in their integration into the professional world (interships, working relationships, career guidance advice, preparation for recruitment 3Partner schools cancers. L’Entreprise des Possibles competition, every kilometer covered is converted into zlotys (Polish currency). All funds collected are donated to people in need. interviews, etc.). Professional integration 48 Students have been beneficiaries Boccard is one of the 22 founding members of the association. In Russia Our team in Russia raised funds and shared a day with 53 By skill-based sponsorship, we help disadvantaged Student/mentor duos Le petit Monde sick children. persons in finding employment through helping since the beginning We come to the help of children in hospital by taking part In France associations such as the “Foyer Notre-Dame” for in financing and building parent/children studios at the A toy collection was initiated for Christmas in partnership homeless people, an association that comes to help hospital of Villefranche. with the Red Cross. isolated persons – men or women and to families in very serious difficulty faced by multiple realities and human suffering. Or “L’entreprise des possibles” a group of companies in the city of Lyon whose objective is to promote reinsertion of disadvantaged persons into society. Ways of improvement Ways of improvement • Encouraging the largest possible number of staff to commit themselves in these actions • Increasing the number of solidarity actions • Embarking volunteers in an annual “I give/I receive” program • Encouraging all the Boccard sites to support solidarity actions 16 17 Environment Transport, waste, energy consumption Our aim To reduce our significant iro nmen environmental impacts and act for v t sustainable development. En Initiatives Transport Our environmental policy is articulated around 3 significant 4,1% By electrical and hybrid vehicles Indicators Environmental Policy Transport / Waste / Energy Consumption : axes: Significantly reduce our Environmental Impacts As part of our Boccard Management System (PM2 BMS) and in line with the action already undertaken within the framework of our Corporate Social Responsibility (PM3), we want to act responsibly. Our commitments to sustainable development: 50% Transport reduction in fuel consumption for car • Ensure compliance with environmental regulations, contractual requirements and internal policies. • Encourage environmental engagements, and engage our teams and stakeholders with its implementation. We are reducing our CO2 • Develop awareness and communication to implement our policies and promote our environmentally friendly culture. • Adopt at all levels company guidelines to reduce environmental impact. • Promote environmentally friendly technologies and solutions in our projects. travel in 4 years emissions by making drivers more • Focus on the reduction of energy consumption and optimization of the use of resources, in an optimum approach. • Measure and track our results against our objectives and establish a continuous improvement process to measure and maximize our environmental performance. responsible, using ecological reduction (compared to 2017) of 41% We should have a long term commitment for the following : o Reduce our C02 emissions related to our travels. CO2 emissions from car travel in 2 o Decrease our waste and maximize recycling. vehicles, implementing tools to o Optimize our resources consumption with a focus on reducing the energy required for our activities and the solutions we provide to our customers. facilitate digital exchanges, and years We therefore request that all Managers adopt the following corporate initiatives : • Assess the environmental aspects of our activities. • Define the control elements and reduction targets of our significant environmental impacts in terms of Transport, Waste and Consumption. encouraging train travel. We rely on each and every one of you to ensure that Boccard is exemplary in its approach for environmental protection ! 70% reduction in CO2 emissions from rail Villeurbanne, January 27, 2020 Patrick BOCCARD Bruno BOCCARD Waste travel in 2 years For several years now, we have implemented a sorting and recycling system that limits Waste the quantity of our waste and ensures a percentage of recycled waste. Every year we raise awareness among our employees 36% of recycled waste 29,3 during World Environment Day. Energy savings thanks to recycled waste, or the equivalent of 3 inhabitants’ annual consumption Energy consumption We have improved our buildings’ energy performance MWh (Villeurbanne sites) 40kg by installing heat pumps and low-consumption lighting. Total amount of waste per We design solutions to optimize the energy performance person/year < 40 kg of our clients’ installations: TrackAdvance, Optibox, etc. Energy consumption Ways of improvement 23% Reduction in our electricity consumption over 4 years (French sites) • Monitoring our environmental impact at a global level • Pursuing our environmental protection actions • Setting up awareness-raising events 18 19 Environment Green IT Our aim To reduce our major environmental impacts and act for a sustainable development. Initiatives Convinced that the digital revolution and the Ethics ecological transition are the two great transforming digital forces of the 21st century, Boccard is committed to Charte Indicators a GREEN IT approach. GREEN IT Our commitments This continuous improvement approach aims Convinced that the digital revolution and the ecological transition are the two great transforming forces of the 21st century, Boccard Digital is to reduce the ecological, economic and social committed to a GREEN IT approach to: footprint of information and communication technologies. Reduce the direct negative environmental impacts of digital, digital Develop a common culture between the digital and environmental players in order to facilitate the articulation between the «Green IT» and «IT for Green» approaches to guide towards a significant development of eco-design and make the responsible design of a digital good or service unavoidable, Our commitments Develop joint action strategies, both in terms of impact reduction and solutions that contribute to or even accelerate the ecological transition, Boccard Digital is committed to Propose methods, tools and good practices shared by digital and environmental Boccard Digital is committed to reduce its digital stakeholders to assess the direct and indirect, positive and negative environmental impacts of digital technology. reduce its digital footprint by... footprint by: GreenIT@boccard.com Selecting eco-responsible service providers for IT purchases • Selecting eco-responsible service providers for IT purchases Raising users’ awareness of Green IT best practices SI.202001.005 Charte GREEN IT Boccard Digital • Raising users’ awareness of Green IT best Eco-designing new digital services practices Accompanying the obsolescence of computer equipment to extend its life span • Eco-designing new digital services Implementing a Paperless approach • Accompanying the obsolescence of computer Encouraging the use of collaborative tools equipment to extend its life span • Implementing a Paperless approach ECOSIA • Encouraging the use of collaborative tools Implementation of the responsible browser by default on the computer of all our collaborators. Ways of improvement • Pursuing the actions implemented and the defined commitments • Setting up awareness-raising events 20 21 Ethics Ethical approach Our aim To fight against fraud and all forms of corruption to encourage responsible and ethical business. Initiatives The “BocEthic” Charter Practical Integrity Guide In a context of responsible and ethical business, we We have also drawn up a Practical Integrity Guide have formalized our commitments by creating the to supplement our “BocEthic” charter. Boccard Good Conduct Charter: Gifts & Invitations 1. Boccard carries out its activities in compliance with the legislations and the culture that exist in the We make our staff aware of the behavior they must countries where we work. adopt when offering or receiving gifts and invitations. 2. Boccard makes health, safety, security and Sustainable Procurement environmental & personal protection the priority in its We ensure the respectability of our partners by means business activities. of a checking process and require them to comply with integrity regulations as specified in the Compliance 3. Boccard requires all its entities, its personnel and Declaration approved by up-line partners. its partners to comply with international standards on Human Rights resulting from the norms drawn up by Whistleblowing the United Nations. To reinforce our ethical approach, we have set up an whistleblowing procedure system giving staff the 4. Boccard neither tolerates nor endorses any act of corruption, possibility of issuing warnings on conduct that is nonfraud, or anticompetitive practice compliant with the regulations system in the context of exercising drawn up in the “BocEthic” charter. our activities, in compliance with Votre Guide pratique the standards applicable in these Trainings de l’intégrité Our employees have attended Ethic fields. This position includes the choice of its partners awareness training on responsible purchasing and digital fraud. Ways of improvement • Setting up awareness-raising campaigns on the subject 22 www.boccard.com www.boccard.com 25
