tesa Sustainability Report 2019 ﻿ –﻿ 1 OUR RESPONSIBILITY – OUR COMMITMENT Sustainability Report 2019 of the tesa Group 2 tesa Sustainability Report 2019 CONTENTS p. 3 Foreword p. 4 About This Report p. 5 The tesa Business Model p. 7 Our Responsibility p. 13 COMPLIANCE p. 14 tesa Code of Conduct p. 14 Compliance ­Management System p. 16 Prevention of A­ nti­competitive Practices p. 17 Corruption Prevention p. 17 Data Protection p. 18 EMPLOYEES p. 19 Internal Succession p. 22 Occupational Safety p. 26 Good Leadership p. 27 Training, Development and Support p. 29 Feedback and Dialogue p. 31 Occupational Health M ­ anagement p. 32 ENVIRONMENT p. 34 Climate Protection and CO2 Emissions p. 38 Efficient Use of Resources p. 41 Responsible Use of Water p. 42 PRODUCT RESPONSIBILITY p. 43 Responsibility in the Supply Chain p. 44 Product Safety p. 46 Enabling Sustainability for Customers SOCIAL COMMITMENT AND p. 50  Title: The complex design of INVOLVEMENT modern smartphones makes it difficult to disassemble them. p. 51 tesa helps: Being There for Others as a Good Neighbor tesa® Bond & Detach products p. 52 tesa donates: ­Uncomplicated Help for ­Social Projects contribute to extending the useful life of the devices on the p. 54  tesa supports: Recruiting the Next Generation one hand and to ­improving of ­Employees their recyclability on the other hand (see p. 47). p. 55 tesa protects: Working to Protect the Environment tesa Sustainability Report 2019 3 Dear readers, For a long time now, tesa has seen success as more than just improving business results and growing in our focus markets – we have also measured the success of our company based on our ecological and social performance for many years. We seek to improve both metrics of success similarly and on a continuous basis. In order to achieve this, we have made sustainability into a supporting pillar of our new business strategy. In the process, we keep an eye not only on ourselves tainability ratings for the first time and won a silver medal but always also on our customers: By offering them for our sustainability efforts, which exceeded the averinnovative, holistic solutions that make their processes age for the industry. It is our ambition in the coming years more efficient, their products better and their projects not only to maintain but also to improve on this result more successful, we are also able to actively support with targeted measures and transparent ­reporting. the sustainability goals of our customers in many ways. For example, with our applications we contribute to Many decisions that we make as corporate managethe development of sustainable technologies such as ment have a global impact. Therefore, it is important e-­mobility, lightweight construction or wind power. We to us to align our actions with overarching guidelines. are proud of that. We feel particularly committed to the principles of the Global Compact, of which we have been a member At the same time, we are boosting our activities to prosince 2006, as well as to the 2030 Agenda for Sustaintect the climate and environment. We can only actively able Development of the United Nations. Beyond the contribute to fighting such global challenges as climate legal requirements, we publish an annual sustainability change, growing waste generation and resource scarcity report in order to transparently illustrate where we stand by continuously reducing our own ecological footprint. and how we intend to make progress. In 2019 we made renewed progress on our path to susThis year as well, we owe our progress to the trementainable business operations: We were able to reduce dous commitment and skill sets of our employees. On our CO2 emissions per ton of end product again by al­­ behalf of the entire Executive Board, I would like to take most two percentage points according to the location-­ this opportunity to sincerely thank you for your efforts. based method. We also continued to improve the safety of our employees: The frequency of accidents with more You can read what this progress looks like in our current than three lost days was 1.6 per million working hours sustainability report. I hope you enjoy reading it. worldwide in 2019 – again below the previous year’s figure. Both statistics are evidence that our management systems are effective. Part of our understanding of sustainability involves looking beyond our company boundaries. Therefore, I am very pleased that so many employees in the previous year committed themselves to work on social projects worldwide and were able to make a positive contribution in the areas surrounding their sites. In 2019 our good sustainability performance received Dr. Norman Goldberg official recognition: We participated in the EcoVadis susCEO of tesa SE 4 tesa Sustainability Report 2019 About this report ABOUT THIS REPORT With this sustainability report we provide our stakeholdUN Global Compact and ers and the public with insight into our worldwide commitment as well as the economic, ecological and social CSR Directive impact of our corporate operations in 2019. The focus Implementation Act here is on the responsibility that tesa assumes globally as an international company. On the following pages we With this report we meet our annual obligation to inform summarize our management approaches, our signifithe Global Compact of the United Nations about our cant measures, results and key figures, divided into the progress. As a participant in the Global Compact, tesa five fields of: commits itself to observe ten universal principles in the areas of human rights, labor standards, environmental • Compliance protection and corruption prevention. In accordance • Employees with the German CSR Directive Implementation Act, • Environment our parent company, Beiersdorf, is obligated to supple• Product responsibility ment the existing financial reporting with information • Social commitment and involvement on key non-financial aspects of business activities. We have integrated the non-financial information on tesa, This report is limited to an exemplary, but representative which is part of the non-financial group declaration of selection of current initiatives that we are implement­Beiersdorf, into this sustainability report. This data is ing at our affiliates worldwide. It focuses both on those shown in brackets indicating the page or paragraph. topics and areas that are of material importance to our business and those that have a major impact on our business activities. In 2017 we determined the essential topics relevant for this in a “materiality analysis.” These Editorial Notes and topics remain valid in the 2019 reporting year and are: Further Information “prevention of anticompetitive practices,” “internal succession,” “occupational safety,” “climate protection and This report is available in German and English. The CO2 emissions,” “human rights in the supply chain” as ­German version is authoritative. Like all of the ­versions well as “product safety.” A new materiality analysis is published in previous years, it is available online at planned for the 2020 reporting year.  www.tesa.de/verantwortung or  www.tesa.com/ responsibility. tesa Nachhaltigkeitsbericht 2019 DAS tesa GESCHÄFTSMODELL 5 63 affiliates in over 100 countries > 2,500employees in Germany ˜ 4,900employees R&D centers worldwide in Germany, the U. S., and Asia THE tesa BUSINESS MODEL tesa is one of the world’s leading manufacturers of ­technical adhesive tapes and adhesive system solutions for industrial and commercial customers as well as consum­ ers. Our more than 7,000 products find applications in ­various industrial areas, such as the automotive industry, the ­electronics industry, the construction supply industry and the print and paper industry. In the consumer and craftsmen market, our products make life easier – both at home and at work. In addition, tesa works with the pharmaceutical industry to develop and produce medical patches and films. 6 tesa Sustainability Report 2019 THE tesa BUSINESS MODEL The Group and Its Affiliates ment, we have developed internal standards, such as Worldwide the tesa Code of Conduct (see p. 14) and our environmental guidelines, and we emphasize compliance with these rules across the entire Group. With the Code of tesa SE has been a wholly owned subsidiary of Conduct for Suppliers (see p. 43), we also obligate our ­Beiersdorf AG since 2001. tesa has 4,926 ­employees key business partners to comply with our sustainability worldwide (December 31, 2019) and operates in more standards. than 100 countries with 63 affiliates. Applications for various industry sectors account for about three-­quarters of the tesa Group’s sales (2019: 1,378.7 million euros). Solutions and Products tesa operates worldwide with a focus on Europe, folfor Industry, Trade and lowed by the regions of Africa, Asia, Australia and ­Consumers America. In addition to tesa SE, the affiliates in China, the United States, Italy and Singapore are among the Our business is divided into two segments: In the Direct largest single companies in the tesa Group. We have Industries division, tesa supplies specialized system production facilities in Europe (Germany and Italy), ­ solutions directly to industrial customers. In the process, the United States and Asia (China). The company head­ we offer our customers effective solutions, high-quality quarters, which include an integrated research and products and excellent service for the automotive, electechnology center, have been located in Norderstedt, tronics, construction, health, transportation and print near Hamburg, Germany, since 2015. and paper industries. Our products are also applied in the area of renewable energies and in the household appliances sector. We generate more than half of sales Strategic Alignment in this division. Reliable quality, excellent service, a high degree of The Trade Markets division deals with the markets in innovative capacity and the use of superior technolwhich customers obtain their products not directly from ogies are core elements of tesa’s brand philosophy tesa, but via retail partners or similar channels. In addiand success. Our actions are focused on the goal of tion to product ranges for private consumers and craftsincreasing the value of the tesa Group in the interests men, they also include adhesive tapes that are intended of our employees, customers and shareholders through for industrial and commercial customers. They are marthe profitable sale of useful products. Our highly qualketed primarily via technical retailers. ified employees and continuously optimized business processes allow us to respond quickly and flexibly to changes in the markets and develop a broad range of high-quality, demand-driven products. In addition, our knowledge of production processes and the ongoing analysis of current trends and developments in the industry give our company a competitive edge and en­­ sure its lasting success. Assuming corporate responsibility is an important element of our business processes: Accordingly, taking social and ecological aspects along the entire value chain into account is an integral part of our corporate culture and our core business principles. With an eye to ensuring good, responsible corporate managetesa Nachhaltigkeitsbericht 2019 OUR RESPONSIBILITY 7 The tesa head­quarters, which include an integrated research and technology center, have been located in Norderstedt, near Hamburg, Germany, since 2015. OUR RESPONSIBILITY Growth and economic success at tesa are inseparably linked with corporate responsibility. In aligning our business activities with sustainability, we see a tremendous opportunity. Nevertheless, global challenges such as climate change, resource scarcity and profound social transformations such as demographic change demonstrate that it is necessary to harmonize social, ecological and economic concerns. 8 tesa Sustainability Report 2019 OUR RESPONSIBILITY We have firmly anchored this understanding in our corporate values and business processes with tesa Corpotesa Corporate Values rate Values and the tesa Code of Conduct (see p. 14). Furthermore, in 2018 we made a clear commitment to • Our actions are guided by our customers’ the 17 Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs) of the ­satisfaction with the performance and quality United Nations. of our products and with our service. •W  e take a proactive stance toward shaping Our Corporate Values our future and see change as an opportunity. Innovations in technology, processes and Particularly as a company that operates internationally, products are the basis for future growth. we are required to assume responsibility and to align our business processes with a sustainable economy. •O  ur employees’ motivation, expertise and Accordingly, we assume responsibility at all stages of ­efficiency ensure our long-term success. our value chain, from the procurement of raw materials to recycling, and we also require that our suppliers •T  hrough a sustainable increase in the value manage their businesses responsibly. In order to make of our company, we secure the satisfaction this attitude clear and understandable for all employof shareholders so that they continue to invest ees across the Group, we have established the tesa in our company, thereby safeguarding jobs. Corporate Values. They are regularly checked for their relevance and were most recently revised in 2017. The •W  e are committed to the implementation of corporate values are accessible to all employees on the the principles of the Global Compact, which intranet and create a common vision of how we underencompasses the observance of human rights stand sustainability. In addition, they may be accessed and labor rights, the protection of the environon our corporate website at  www.tesa.com. ment and the battle against corruption. •W  e assume social responsibility. Our main Guidelines for our Actions: focus is on supporting young people in ­natural Global Compact Principles sciences and engineering, protecting the ­environment and running social projects near and SDGs our sites. We have been a member of the Global Compact of the United Nations since 2006. Our membership underscores our commitment to upholding internationally recognized social and environmental standards in our business activities. The ten Global Compact principles in politics and civil society, we as companies are urged to the areas of human rights, labor standards, environmendo our part to achieve the SDGs. In order to define as tal protection and anti-corruption form the overarching precisely as possible to which SDGs we can contribute guidelines for our actions. with our activities and products, we have carried out a comparison with the 169 SDG targets. In 2018 we also reaffirmed our goal to make our contribution to the 17 Sustainable Development Goals of the United Nations. The SDGs constitute the core of the 2030 Agenda, a global action plan for sustainable development. They represent an important orientation framework for our work on sustainability. For along with tesa Sustainability Report 2019 OUR RESPONSIBILITY 9 The result can be found in the following index. We also include symbols at the start of every chapter to indicate to which SDGs we are contributing with the activities described in the respective chapter. We contribute to the following SDGs and their ­corresponding targets: Information in tesa SDG No. SDG targets Our contribution sustainability report 5.5: Ensure the full and effective tesa has been a member of the UN Global Compact Guidelines for our participation of women and their since 2006. The ten principles in the areas of Actions: Global Comequal opportunity to assume leaderhuman rights, labor standards, environmental propact Principles and ship roles at all levels of the decitection and anti-corruption also represent the overSDGs, p. 8 sion-making process in political, arching guidelines for all actions at tesa. With our economic and public life membership, we have committed ourselves to Training, developPrinciple 6, “The elimination of discrimination in ment and support, respect of employment and occupation”, and reject pp. 27 – 29 any form of discrimination in the workplace or in the filling of positions. 7.3: To double the worldwide growth tesa’s headquarters as well as seven of our pro­ Climate protection rate of energy efficiency by 2030 duction facilities have an ISO 14001-certified enviand CO2 emissions, ronmental management system. In addition, two pp. 34 – 37 production facilities and tesa’s headquarters have an ISO 50001-certified energy management system. The introduction of the energy management systems paved the way for further increasing the en­­er­gy efficiency of our facilities. Another strategic approach for tesa is the use of energy and re­source-­ saving technologies. This includes the efficient generation of our own energy through cogeneration. Obtaining electricity from renewable sources also represents an important lever for the reduction of CO2 emissions. 8.4: To improve worldwide resource Our products should be as harmless as possible to Efficient use of efficiency in consumption and prothe environment over their entire life cycle. During resources, duction step-by-step by 2030 and development and manufacturing we take care to pp. 38 – 40 to pursue the decoupling of ecoensure resource efficiency and to avoid production nomic growth and environmental waste as much as possible. Measures to this end destruction in accordance with the are an integral part of our environmental protection ten-year framework of programs for activities as a company. Wherever possible and sustainable consumption and prosensible we use renewable and recycled raw mateduction patterns, whereby the rials. The reduction and avoidance of packaging developed countries assume materials also helps to minimize waste and thereby leadership the negative impact on the environment. 8.8: To protect labor rights and to As a responsible employer, we see it as our duty to Occupational safety, promote safe working environments protect our employees from risks and hazards in pp. 22 – 25, occupafor all employees, including migrant the exercise of their activities. With a wide range of tional health manageworkers, particularly female migrant measures, we contribute to preventing or minimizment, p. 31 workers, and people in precarious ing accidents and occupational illnesses. employment situations 10 tesa Sustainability Report 2019 OUR RESPONSIBILITY Information in tesa SDG No. SDG targets Our contribution sustainability report 12.2: To achieve the sustainable tesa develops ecofriendly, solvent-free production Efficient use of management and efficient use of methods, and uses renewable and recycled raw resources, pp. 38 – 40 natural resources by 2030 materials wherever possible and sensible. We take care to ensure resource efficiency and avoid production waste from the early stages of developing our products and the methods used to produce them. Measures to this end are an integral part of our environmental protection activities as a company. 12.4: To achieve the environmentally There is no way to eliminate all waste when producsound use of chemicals and all ing goods. Our waste and raw materials managewaste during their entire life cycle by ment activities are geared toward using materials 2020 in accordance with the interefficiently and recycling wherever possible. Therenationally agreed upon framework fore, we constantly work on minimizing production-­ rules and to reduce their release related losses in the raw materials we use. tesa into air, water and soil substantially recycles almost all non-hazardous waste and hazin order to limit as much as possible ardous waste containing solvents. their deleterious impact on human health and the environment 12.5: To reduce waste volume We have set ourselves the goal of reducing specific ­sig­nifi­cantly by 2030 through prewaste volume per metric ton of end product by the vention, mitigation, recycling and year 2020 by another two percentage points from reuse the 2015 reference year. 16.5: To reduce corruption and We reject any form of corruption, bribery or other Compliance, bribery significantly in all their forms forms of unlawful conduct. Corruption prevention pp. 13 – 17 is one of tesa’s Core Compliance Fields and plays a central role in the Compliance Management ­System. The main goal is to avoid possible cases of ­corruption before they arise. Our Group-wide anti-corruption guidelines instruct our employees on proper conduct and explain how employees should conduct themselves in corresponding situations. tesa Sustainability Report 2019 OUR RESPONSIBILITY 11 Strategic Action Fields 4 strategic action In order to live up to our corporate responsibility regardfields ing the management of our company, we are working help us focus on four strategic action fields: employees, products, the environment and society. In each of them we establish our sustainability priorities and check their relevance regularly. The topactivities. ics that we have identified as material are currently the following: “prevention of anticompetitive practices,” “internal succession,” “occupational safety,” “climate pro­­tection and CO2 emissions,” “human rights in the supply chain” as well as “product safety.” These topics were identified and evaluated in 2017 as part of a materiality analysis with representatives of relevant units at tesa (see right), the Group parent company, Beiersdorf, as well as other relevant stakeholders. The analysis is • Legal & Compliance carried out every two to three years alongside the mate• Purchasing Network riality process of the parent company, Beiersdorf, and is • Human Resources expected to be carried out again in 2020. • Safety & Health, Environmental, Quality Management • Corporate Communications In addition, during the reporting year we began to work on a sustainability agenda as part of the new business Representatives of these units meet on selected dates, strategy that will apply starting in 2020. It should map coordinate the dialogue between the units and reportour activities along the entire value chain even more ing on non-financial topics. In addition, we engage in systematically: from raw materials and the supply chain regular dialogue with our parent company, Beiersdorf, through production and our employees all the way to and coordinate our activities with each other. the reduction of our environmental footprint as well as to worldwide support for social initiatives and projects. In addition, this will also be accompanied by new priorRisk Management ities and initiatives as well as updated objectives. In the next fiscal year, we will report on the new developments Success-oriented and responsible activities include more extensively. the Group-wide, integrated management of risks and opportunities. Risks are identified and managed in a structured process. In the course of these activities, we Organizational Structure assess operational, functional, and strategic risks with an eye to their possible financial impact and effects on The tesa Executive Board has articulated an express our reputation as well as their probability of occurrence. commitment to tesa’s corporate responsibility. At its Our compliance management team uses the same criteinstigation, responsibility was established as a task that ria in a separate process (compliance risk assessment) cuts across all areas within the Group. All of the releto identify and assess the relevant risks we may face as vant units are involved, which ensures there is a direct a result of non-compliance with external regulations and link between these efforts and our business activities internal standards. In addition, there is a standardized and key business processes. The following units are process for risks that can arise in connection with our involved in steering these activities and are responsible material non-financial topics. We considered all non-­ for operational implementation: financial topics that are material for tesa and interviewed all relevant units about their risk assessment. The result was reviewed following the risk management process. 12 tesa Sustainability Report 2019 OUR RESPONSIBILITY In the process, no risks were identified that need to be reported in accordance with the guidelines of the German CSR Directive Implementation Act. With a CDP rating of B, Ratings and Awards tesa is above Since 2014 tesa has participated in CDP, which gathers the industry average. and evaluates qualitative and quantitative information on the topics of climate change, water and forests. The continuous reduction of CO2 emissions as well as the implementation of measures to protect the climate and environment at the ISO-14001 certified sites are having an impact: In 2019 tesa was awarded a B rating in the area of climate. In 2019 tesa participated in the EcoVadis s­ ustainability ratings for the first time. EcoVadis is a sustainability measurement platform for global procurement chains and evaluates corporate principles, measures and results in the topic areas of the environment, labor practices and human rights, ethics as well as responsible procurement. tesa was awarded a silver medal. tesa Nachhaltigkeitsbericht 2019 Compliance 13 Five avatars guide ­participants through the compliance e-learning program. COMPLIANCE Our contribution to the SDGs We will continue to be a trustworthy partner to our ­customers, shareholders, business partners and employees and to government agencies, institutions and the public. Compliance with all laws and regulations that apply to tesa is therefore particularly important. 14 tesa Sustainability Report 2019 Compliance – tesa Code of Conduct | Compliance Management System Compliance violations can be not only expensive, but Compliance also damaging, particularly to the company’s reputation. As a result, all employees, managers and corporate Management System bodies are required to abide by clear specifications that have been set down in writing. Compliance with these With our Compliance Management System (CMS) we specifications is monitored and verified regularly through want to ensure that all tesa employees, managers and audits and supported by activities such as advising, trainbodies comply with applicable legal provisions and intering sessions, supplementary measures and targeted nal rules in their day-to-day work. In order to achieve programs. In this context, the goal is to raise awareness this goal, we follow an orderly management process. It among relevant employees about related issues and to encompasses the four steps of prevent, detect, react teach them how to act appropriately and make reliable and improve. decisions. Also in 2019, we revised and updated the tesa CMS. In the process, we reviewed our mandatory governance tesa Code of Conduct and compliance guidelines with respect to their practicality and acceptance and adjusted them where necesThe tesa Code of Conduct (CoC) is derived from the ten sary. We are taking dynamic changes in the legal and principles of the UN Global Compact and serves as an economic environment into account in this update. overarching, binding code of conduct for all employees. We use this to support our employees, managers and In addition, during the reporting period we undertook corporate bodies in observing the key principles and a comprehensive description of our CMS, which docvalues of our company in their day-to-day work, gearing uments its conceptual framework consistent with the their conduct toward them and sharing them with others. Institute of Public Auditors in Germany (IDW) audit standard 980, its minimum provisions and scope. We New employees receive the CoC on their first day at also set new compliance goals (see infobox, p. 15) for work by email. In addition, it is available to employees ourselves. Furthermore, the tesa Executive Board and managers on the intranet at any time. Compliance passed a new Compliance Statement. with the tesa Code of Conduct as well as all governance and compliance guidelines is an essential prerequisite As in previous years, the focus and key tenets of our for being a member of the tesa Group. compliance program entail the compliance fields of antitrust, anti-corruption and data protection. The CoC is regularly checked for its relevance and appropriateness and is adjusted if necessary. In 2019 The tesa Corporate Compliance Officer is responsible we began to revise the CoC. This process, including for ensuring legal conformity in the core compliance new training, is expected to be completed in 2020. fields in the best possible way and enhancing the entire system, taking into account the corporate strategy as well as the constantly evolving legal environment in the international context. In the local tesa affiliates, the general managers re­­ spon­­sible for the respective departments are simulta­ neously compliance officers. They are supported in their activities by formally designated local compliance officers. The local and corporate compliance managers are responsible for the operational implementation and refinement of the tesa compliance standards throughout the Group. tesa Sustainability Report 2019 Compliance – Compliance Management System 15 The tesa compliance goals are: 3 e-Learning courses for the core 1. The alignment, integration and continuous compliance areas adjustment of a Compliance Management System that is tailored to tesa’s business were rolled models. out worldwide 2. Compliance with legal and regulatory in 2019. requirements relevant to tesa as well as the optimal fulfillment of mandatory requirements imposed by the parent company ­Beiersdorf AG. 3. Protection of tesa’s assets, maintenance Measures and Results of the trust of stakeholders, customers and suppliers as well as the reduction of liability Communication and Training Activities risks. We anchor the compliance principles within the company through routine communication and training activ4. Promotion of sustainable business activiities. For example, our employees find tips, guidelines, ties within the context of legal and documenprocesses and competent points of contact for their tary requirements, at maximum efficiency. day-to-day business dealings on our own intranet-based compliance platform. We also use this platform to pro5. Creation of added value for business vide information on relevant legal developments in rela­development by promoting reliable conduct tion to tesa’s day-to-day activities. Our own glossary and decision-making, taking into account enables us to achieve a high degree of understandabilconstantly changing conditions. ity in this general context. In addition, we have developed a governance calendar, which is sent to all tesa affiliates along with the quarterly governance newsletter. It supports planning by the local organizations and provides information about material new developments in CMS and the compliance fields. In 2019 we were also able to roll out the newly developed compliance e-learning program, which is comprised of individual e-learning courses for the three core compliance fields of antitrust, anti-corruption and data protection, to all colleagues with a PC workstation. These e-learning courses are available in tesa’s main Our reporting system is another important component languages of English, German, Spanish and Chinese. of the tesa CMS. tesa has implemented both internal and external reporting options through ombudsmen to Audits make it easier to report compliance violations. We use The Internal Audit department (Beiersdorf AG) conducts this system to pursue all hints, clarify the relevant issues routine audits during which compliance-related topics and take appropriate measures after carefully weighing are also reviewed. The audit questions in the area of and considering the principle of proportionality. compliance are checked annually for their relevance. 16 tesa Sustainability Report 2019 Compliance – Prevention of ­Anti­competitive Practices Prevention of The target group of the antitrust compliance program ­Anti­competitive Practices includes employees with access to information sensitive to competition or contact with competitors and ­managers. Also in 2019 we analyzed and evaluated the existing and future compliance risks of our business models. The In case of questions regarding this compliance field, the resulting materiality analysis has confirmed our classifiantitrust compliance expert, the local compliance mancation of the topic of antitrust law as the most important agers and the antitrust compliance network counsel core compliance field. are available. The antitrust compliance network is comprised of external network attorneys specialized in antitrust law who act as regular points of contact for local Management Approach affiliates lacking their own legal function. Many years ago, we successfully introduced the tesa Antitrust Compliance Program throughout the Group. Measures and Results It is an important element of our overall program and has been refined continuously since then. It provides Internal Guidelines information and training on relevant content in antitrust In 2019 we implemented our new overarching antitrust law and advises on potential risks. It also encompasses compliance guideline, which we initially introduced at the regular review of the program’s implementation and the German sites in 2018, at the international affiliates evaluation of risks. as well. The international antitrust compliance guideline is an Training Courses important component of the program. It establishes gen­ At the beginning of 2019, the new e-learning module on eral conditions and minimum standards in the antitrust the topic of antitrust was rolled out worldwide to all relecore compliance field and makes initial rec­om­men­da­ vant employees and managers. tions for action. During the 2019 reporting year, we invited 3,166 employees in 42 countries and 54 affiliates to participate in this e-learning course. The rate of successful participation was 99 percent (global 1 ). In addition, we hold on-site training sessions in regions where there is particular risk 99 and in selected business units. Furthermore, we offer individualized advice on issues of antitrust law during ongoing operations, and many take advantage of this option. Antitrust Compliance Network Counsel percent During the reporting period, we redesigned our international antitrust compliance network counsel. The of the target group antitrust compliance network was augmented by addisuccessfully participated tional countries. In addition, a framework cooperation agreement was arranged with an international corpoin the e-learning. rate law firm. 1 The participation rate refers to the target and risk group that was defined in advance for this core compliance field. This group includes all employees and managers who may come into contact with antitrust-related topics and requirements. tesa Sustainability Report 2019 Compliance – Corruption Prevention | Data Protection 17 Corruption Prevention Data Protection Anti-corruption is one of tesa’s core compliance fields The confidential, honest, safe and appropriate handling and plays a key role, after antitrust, in the Compliance of the personal information entrusted to us is a high pri­ Management System. The main goal is to avoid possible ority for tesa. Given the heightened requirements set cases of corruption before they arise. down in the EU General Data Protection R ­ egulation (GDPR) and the risk analysis newly performed as a result, the topic of data protection represents a core Management Approach compliance field again in the reporting period. Our focus is on ongoing efforts to inform and raise the awareness of employees for corruption-related risks as Management Approach well as activities and situations involving particular risks in day-to-day business dealings. Prevention by raising awareness and through education, increasingly regarding the IT processing of data, The Group-wide anti-corruption guideline makes an is a key focus for us in the area of data protection. We important contribution to these efforts. It offers guidtherefore inform employees about the measures we ance to our employees on what to do in case of conflicts are taking to comply with the GDPR, who the points of of interest, invitations and personal gifts from and to repcontact are and what employees should keep in mind in resentatives, agents and employees of other companies their day-to-day work. Our Data Protection Compliance or office holders and explain how employees should Guideline summarizes all valid organizational rules on conduct themselves in corresponding situations. the topic of data protection and gives employees assistance and instructions for handling data. During the reporting period, we revised the existing anti-corruption guideline and transferred it to a new personal gifts guideline, which should be newly impleMeasures and Results mented next year. Information and Training Courses Along with events on the topic of data protection, we Measures and Results also use the intranet to keep our employees informed. We offered instruction on the most important contents The e-learning course, which was redesigned in 2018, of the GDPR, for example, by means of a data protec­ covers the topic of anti-corruption as a core compliance tion series. In order to explain the requirements of the field. It is mandatory for all relevant employees, manregulation and its implementation as understandably agers and corporate bodies to complete the course and true to real-world practice as possible, we address every two years. The first training cycle began in 2019 issues that arise from the day-to-day activities of (see p. 15). On-site training on the topic of corruption preemployees and provide information about proper and vention is held as needed and is conducted by speakers legally compliant conduct. or experts on the issue in question. Since 2019, there is a new e-learning course on the topic of data protection, which all employees, managers and corporate bodies must complete every two years. 18 tesa Nachhaltigkeitsbericht 2019 EMPLOYEES Creating a corporate culture that strengthens performance, teamwork, cross-­ functional c­ ollaboration and internationalization is an express goal of tesa’s human resources strategy. EMPLOYEES Our contribution to the SDGs tesa is an expert in adhesive technology and offers its ­customers innovative solutions as well as excellent service. The company’s success depends to a very large extent on the skills of our employees and their willingness to continue to develop them. tesa Sustainability Report 2019 EMPLOYEES – Internal Succession 19 Qualified employees, who actively contribute to enhancInternal Succession ing our position as one of the world’s leading adhesive technology companies, are the key to the successful tesa’s products are represented in several different implementation of our corporate strategy. markets and industries that each have different requirements, issues and needs. Managing this complexity is This is because customer needs are changing in ever no easy task. The skills, knowledge and experience of shorter cycles, and the demands on our solutions are our employees give us a distinct competitive advantage. increasing due to new technologies and trends or glob­­al challenges such as climate change or resource Accordingly, we attach importance to filling key posiscarcity. We can only meet the expectations of our tions from within wherever possible in order to retain ­customers – and exceed them again and again – with their valuable experience and market knowledge, furcommitted employees who promote innovations in the ther enhance their expertise and skills, and leverage area of products and processes. these capabilities for our long-term success as a company. This approach is also very beneficial to our em­­ At the same time, the demands that employees place ployees. Without changing companies, they can gain on us as a company are constantly evolving. Attract­ broad knowledge from different areas and obtain attraciveness as an employer has much more significance tive promotion and development opportunities. today than before. Additional services that the company offers beyond salary are increasing in significance. This Consistent with this, we have begun to position our includes, for example, such aspects as development headquarters in Norderstedt more internationally. We opportunities in the company, the topics of occupational are increasingly filling vacant positions there with colsafety and health promotion, a thriving culture of feedleagues who have previously worked for us at sites back and dialogue, and models for reconciling profesabroad. Currently the majority of these “impats” come sional and private life. from our growth markets in Asia. In Germany, collective bargaining agreements, which However, in order to remain successful over the are supplemented by site and topic-specific plant agreelong term in the constantly evolving markets, we also ments, serve as the basis for working time arrangements, need fresh stimuli from outside. Therefore, we also fill but also compensation and bonuses. In other countries selected positions externally, thereby bringing new skill in which we operate, site-specific regulations that take sets – for the topic of digitalization, for example – and into account the local circumstances and features of the expertise to the company. respective country apply in addition to local laws. Our human resources strategy is designed to attract Management Approach well-qualified and committed employees to our company, retain them and continuously increase our attracThe topic of internal succession is firmly established tiveness as an employer. In addition, our express goal at the highest level at tesa. Several times a year, the is to promote a corporate culture that strengthens perExecutive Board holds meetings where the members formance, teamwork, cross-functional collaboration and discuss succession planning and talent management. internationalization. Therefore, the focus during the reporting period was on the topics of executive developThe topic is centrally managed by the Human Resources ment and career planning. (HR) department. The Succession Planning and Talent Management team, which was established specifically to handle internal succession, bases its work on the tesa Key Competencies. Among the various measures used by the team are development interviews and advisory sessions with employees as well as talent management 20 tesa Sustainability Report 2019 EMPLOYEES – Internal Succession intended to ensure the long-term success of the company. Intensive discussions with experienced managers and HR employees give these up-and-coming employees further impetus for their future careers at tesa. The competencies reviews enable us to develop talented workers’ skills in a targeted manner, making them candidates for internal succession. In 2019, a total of five competencies reviews were conToday, attractiveness as an employer is an important competitive ducted – two in Germany and one in China, the United factor. Aspects such as development opportunities or a thriving States and Thailand, respectively. culture of feedback and dialogue play an important role here. workshops. Furthermore, HR ensures that employees receive regular feedback on their performance from their supervisors. The employees are also invited to provide feedback to their supervisors in this context. As a result, a conversation occurs between the employee and his or her direct supervisor at least once a year. HR’s tasks also include ensuring that information is shared between the regions and the company headtesa Key Competencies quarters. For example, the international HR conference, which is usually held twice a year, promotes this goal. • “Set the pace” (initiative) HR also makes suggestions for filling open positions • “Focus on your customer” across different units and regions. By doing so, the (customer and market orientation) department plays a key role when it comes to making • “Team up” (readiness and ability it easier for future executives to rise within the organito work in a team) zation, in the process winning their lasting loyalty to the • “Achieve & improve” (goal orientation) company. In the period under review, we filled 80 per• “Challenge yourself” cent of top management positions with internal candi(personal development) dates in this way. • “Lead to success” (leadership skills) • “Grow talent” (employee development) • “See the bigger picture” Measures and Results (conceptual thinking) and • “Get buy-in” (influence). Competencies Review As part of a competencies review, talented workers The tesa Key Competencies create the basis are given the opportunity to participate in professionfor human resources work and are used in all ally relevant role playing and exercises – comparable to HR tools worldwide. They are firmly established, those of an assessment center. They then receive feedfor example, in performance management, in back on their strengths and areas for development with various feedback tools, development and regard to the tesa Key Competencies. training programs as well as in the recruitment process. The tesa Key Competencies describe nine core competencies that determine the actions of employees and are tesa Sustainability Report 2019 EMPLOYEES – Internal Succession 21 GERMANY tesa “X-perience” Career Path Model In 2019 we introduced our new career path model (­X-perience) at all sites worldwide. The aim of the model is to create a uniform understanding of sensible development and career progression throughout the company. Furthermore, we would like to motivate employees to seek job rotation opportunities not only internationally or functionally, but to actively make cross-functional moves. The introduction of the new model was flanked by an employee campaign. Management Development Program In 2019 we began to devise a new Management Development Program (MDP). The program is comprised of two components – “Essential” and “Advanced” – and Gaining new should help executives and managers expand their skill sets and expertise. The “Essential” MDP conveys funda­experience – across mental knowledge regarding responsibilities, processes all boundaries and tasks in all business units of the company. “Essential” MDP is implemented in the form of an e-learning course. In the future, employees who think During the reporting period, “Advanced” MDP was still in outside the box and take on new the conceptual phase and should be offered for the first tasks in responsible positions will time in the first half of 2020. “Advanced” MDP involves become increasingly important for traditional classroom training. The previous MDP was a company like tesa. held in 2019 for the last time. For this reason, the HR department developed the X-perience career path model. It is aimed at all employees and should systematically and specifically promote cross-functional transfers within the company. For example, em­­ployees with a high level of product expertise should gain insight into in­­­­teractions with customers. In order to call attention to the new model, we launched the “X-perience the tesa world” campaign and rolled it out world­ wide in 2019. Positions that qualify for cross-­functional transfers are ad­­ver­ tised as such. X-change Days offer an­­other op­­portunity for sharing infor­ma­ tion. The various divisions can intro­­duce themselves and their respective job offerings to interested employees. For more information please see:  insights.tesa.com 22 tesa Sustainability Report 2019 EMPLOYEES – Occupational Safety Occupational Safety As a responsible employer, we regard it as our duty to Our occupational safety management activities focus protect our employees from risks and hazards in the on ISO 14001-certified production facilities – for that is exercise of their activities. A safe working environment where the risks of accidents and adverse health effects is the prerequisite for motivated and engaged employare greater than at our office headquarters. Thereees and makes a crucial contribution to productivity fore, we employ our own safety specialists at all ISO and ­quality – and thereby to customer satisfaction. As a 14001-certified sites. They are familiar both with tesa’s result, we also view occupational safety as an important global occupational safety and health guidelines as well competitive factor. as with local legal requirements and conditions. At the same time, we also take deliberate steps to promote We would like to prevent workplace accidents and eliminternational dialogue among these experts. The safety inate work-related health risks and the occupational ill­ specialists meet annually to discuss key occupational nesses they cause before they can arise. Therefore, we safety and health risks. They also initiate joint projects, prioritize prevention and raising awareness among staff define standards and share information on successes about potential hazards – for their own protection and and their experiences as part of these events. This for the protection of their colleagues. In this con­nec­tion, approach contributes toward the continuous improvesystematic occupational safety and effective oc­­cu­pa­ ment of accident prevention measures at tesa. tion­al health and safety management systems (OHSMS) play an important role. We have therefore im­­ple­mented a wide range of structured measures that serve to prevent and minimize accidents and illness. Our strategic aim is to ISO 14001-certified sites reduce the number of accidents to zero. tesa headquarters (Germany) tesa plant Hamburg (Germany) Management Approach tesa plant Offenburg (Germany) tesa Converting Center (Germany) Occupational safety is firmly anchored in tesa’s organ­ tesa scribos (Germany) ization – it is the focus of formal committees, such as the tesa plant Concagno (Italy) occupational safety committees that are legally required tesa plant Suzhou (China) in Germany. tesa plant Sparta (USA) Besides the legal requirements, our Occupational Safety Guidelines, which apply throughout the group of companies, form the basis for our internal management system in the area of occupational safety. The guidelines are further specified through company-internal At tesa, risk assessments establish the basis for selectrequirements and specific operating instructions. The ing and managing work resources, work procedures, guidelines also apply to sub-contractors, who take on workplaces and work processes in such a way that techtasks in our production sites. nical and organizational flaws are avoided and employees can observe safe practices. But changes in machinAs part of an annual management review, the company ery, systems, or working premises, new purchases and management works with the occupational safety unit to process adjustments can all have an impact on our evaluate the accidents that occurred that year. Based employees’ safety and health. Therefore, for example, on this information, it then takes new steps to further safety-related testing and acceptance as well as sysimprove employees’ safety and reduce work-related tematic hazard identification and risk assessment – with health risks. the involvement of expert employees – are carried out tesa Sustainability Report 2019 EMPLOYEES – Occupational Safety 23 It is particularly important for employees in production, but also in the laboratories, to wear the proper protective equipment or suitable work clothing consistently. at the time of the procurement and commissioning of However, the responsible and proactive actions of our equipment. If we recognize a safety risk in this connecemployees play a major role in minimizing risk. Theretion, we take suitable avoidance and corrective measfore, the occupational safety guidelines require that ures. Furthermore, occupational safety committees, employees are informed about, and made aware of, employee representatives as well as management dissafety risks and potential hazards through instructions cuss the material results of the evaluation and define and training programs at routine intervals. This should satisfactory measures. enable them to prevent accidents through proper, independent conduct. In addition, routine inspections and evaluations take place. We take into account the new findings, determine In addition, the campaign “It’s in your hands! Always additional measures if necessary and update the relewear your safety gear” helps to raise the awareness of vant occupational safety and health documents. employees both in production and in the laboratories regarding the importance of consistently wearing the The handling of hazardous substances is also regulated proper protective equipment or suitable work clothing in detail. The occupational safety unit, together with (see p. 24). the product safety unit and responsible figures from research and development and production, creates a However, should a work accident occur despite all the corresponding structure for tesa-specific processes on preventive measures, we will conduct an investigation. the handling, labeling, storage and transport of hazardIn the process, we determine the technical, organizaous substances. Employee groups who work with certional and personal causes for the accident. Ultimately, tain hazardous substances undergo routine, mandatory appropriate accident preventive measures will help us health examinations. In addition, equipment and jobs to avoid a similar incident from occurring in the future. are routinely monitored for their safety and emission sources. The procedure in case of an accident is governed by emergency management. 24 tesa Sustainability Report 2019 EMPLOYEES – Occupational Safety Measures and Results 1.6 per 1 million Double Prevention Program hours worked – In the Chinese plant, we implemented the “Double Prethe accident vention Program” in 2019. Step one involves the analysis of safety and health hazards in the workplace. In step frequency rate > 3 days two we determine hidden risks and take correspondat tesa in 2019 was ing corrective measures. The program should primarily raise the awareness of our employees that hazards are therefore well below not always obvious. The plant has a risk map that indithe industry average cates the risk for each department. We also indicate the risks and the precautionary measures to be taken in the in Germany (BG RCI). work areas. Campaigns In 2019 the “It’s in your hands! Always wear your safety gear” campaign for wearing personal protective equipscheme. The focus here was also on prevention. For ment was rolled out worldwide. As part of this campaign, example, in the Offenburg tesa plant a fire protection events and meetings were held in the plants on various day was held with practical extinguisher training. topics such as hearing protection and protective eye gear, in part with the participation of the personal proSafety Tour App tective equipment manufacturer. In addition, a “safety Since 2019, a documentation app has made it easier month” was observed in China with various activities for us to conduct our SOC (safety, order, cleanliness) designed to increase awareness for the topic of occuwalk­about inspections. With the involvement of safety pational safety. experts, tesa developed the “safety tour app,” with which the user can enter relevant issues directly into a Fire Safety tablet. As a result, written notes no longer need to be During the reporting year we implemented measures transferred to Excel – this is less error-prone and saves again within the framework of the 2020 fire protection time. Besides the simple entry of data and images, Occupational safety key figures unit 2017 2018 2019 Work accidents ≥ 1 day number 14 21 22 Accident frequency rate ≥ 1 day number/million hours worked 2.9 4.1 4.3 Lost days ≥ 1 day number 261 4451 173 Lost day rate ≥ 1 day number/million hours worked 54.6 86.3 1 33.6 Work accidents > 3 days number 6 10 8 Accident frequency rate > 3 days number/million hours worked 1.3 1.9 1.6 1 Adjustment compared to previous year tesa Sustainability Report 2019 EMPLOYEES – Occupational Safety 25 ITALY t­ opics can be prioritized, selected, and better archived using a traffic light system. An integrated checklist ensures that no issue is overlooked during the tour. Initially, we introduced the new digital solution in a test phase in the N ­ orderstedt headquarters. The worldwide rollout will begin in the first quarter of 2020 at the production facilities in Offenburg, Hamburg, Italy, China and the USA. Performance Indicator ISO 45001 Our aim is to continuously reduce the number of acci­Certification dents with one or more days of absence. This particularly involves accidents resulting in longer incapacity to work, The Concagno plant in Italy, when the employee is absent for more than three days. one of the largest tesa producThe frequency of accidents > 3 days at tesa in 2019 was tion facilities, was certified 1.6 per million hours worked globally. This was below successfully in 2018 for the the previous year’s figure (1.9 in 2018), and therefore first time in accordance with well below the German industry average (BG RCI) of 11.7. ISO 45001:2018. We view this as proof of the quality of our management system in the area of occupational safety. The standard is one of the best-­known and most important In addition, tesa monitors the lost day rate, measured standards for management in calendar days per million hours worked, at each site. systems in the area of occupaThe lost day rate in 2019 was at a very low level, demontional safety. The certification strating that we were able to significantly reduce the was confirmed through a number of serious work accidents with the help of our successful follow-up audit in man­agement systems. 2019. In 2019, we committed ourselves to having our occupational safety management system certified at one of our German production sites as well as in the research and technology center at the head­­quarters in Norderstedt. The first step is the evaluation of the tesa research and technology center for the “Sicher mit System” seal of approval of the professional association of raw materials and chemical industry (BG RCI) in 2020. The second step will be the evaluation of the production site in 2021. 26 tesa Sustainability Report 2019 EMPLOYEES – Good Leadership Good Leadership Management Approach For a technology company like tesa, it is important that Executive development at tesa is anchored in the area the company and employees can constantly expand of training and learning in the Human Resources (HR) their capabilities and adapt to new circumstances. An unit and is managed from there. The understanding of essential prerequisite for this is that the corporate culmanagement at tesa is based on the Flow Leadership ture and the working environment are structured in Model. It makes use of positive psychology and calls for such a way that they motivate employees to be creaa work atmosphere in which employees enjoy what they tive and innovative and to support the implementation are doing and reach a “flow” state, a sense of energized of new ideas. focus, of complete involvement and success. According to the model, this type of work atmosphere leads to feelGood leadership is decisive in this context: It helps to ings of happiness and heightens the motivation, commitcreate a positive workplace environment and working ment and performance of the employees. Accordingly, conditions that encourage performance, an environthe model helps to increase employees’ satisfaction and ment in which employees can realize their potential, makes them feel more connected to the company. gain recognition and be promoted. In addition, we are convinced that leadership makes a significant contribuA three-stage Leadership Development Program lies tion to winning the loyalty of engaged and well-trained at the heart of executive development at tesa. The proemployees to the company and reducing turnover. gram is gradually being introduced in all tesa regions. In contrast to the Management Development ­Program, A common vision, clear-cut values and uniform managewhich specifically provides training in management ment guidelines are essential to achieving this. They skills, the focus here is on building and refining leader­ help executives manage and encourage their employship qualities. The leadership training consists of the ees so that the company as a whole advances and Matrix, Essential and Advanced Leadership modules. the corporate goals are achieved. This ambition is re­­ The Matrix Leadership module takes into account flected in the tesa Key Competencies (see p. 20). Four of tesa’s matrix organizational structure and is open to the nine key ­competencies relate to the topics of leaderall employees who do not have the authority to issue ship and management. orders but have, for example, responsibility in the context of projects. The Essential Leadership module can be taken by executives who have assumed responsibility over personnel at tesa for the first time. Above all this module should sharpen the understanding of one’s role as a manager in this situation. Topics such as communication and feedback and approaches for situational leadership and team development play an important role in this. Employees in the plants have the opportunity to complete the Leadership Basics for Opera4 out of 9 tions module. As part of this, plant-specific challenges are considered. The Advanced Leadership Program is designed for employees who have already held leadership responsibility for a while. It includes topics such as tesa key competencies dealing with difficult management situations, employee development and coaching as a leadership tool. relate to the topics of leadership and management. tesa Sustainability Report 2019 EMPLOYEES – Good Leadership | Training, Development and Support 27 Training, Development and Support The competition for employees from the natural sciences and engineering is constantly increasing within our industry. In addition, advancing digitalization and internationalization are leading to changes in working requirements and methods. At the same time we want to continue responding to changing customer needs and offer our customers outstanding products, innovative solutions and the best service. The qualification programs are tailored to the requirements We are adjusting to these challenges with our compreof ­individual business units. The Sales & Marketing qualificahensive initial and advanced training programs that are tion program, for example, combines technical training and sales skills. specially tailored to our requirements. After all, highly qualified, engaged and performance-oriented employees are a decisive competitive advantage for us. In addition, having a wide range of initial and advanced training opportunities increases our attractiveness as Measures and Results an employer and contributes to the willingness of high-­ potential employees to work for us for a long time. Matrix Leadership After a pilot phase in 2018, the various training units of the module were offered a total of six times in 2019 at Management Approach the company headquarters. In addition, each training program was held once in English in order to enable In order to respond suitably to the challenges of the employees from other regions to participate. A total of labor market and the competitive environment, we have 57 employees took part in one of the training units in developed tesa-specific training. It helps young peo2019. ple gain entry into the working world and gives us the opportunity to offer targeted training for employees in Essential Leadership the areas relevant to our business. Along with techniIn 2019 a total of eleven training cycles with 110 particcal training content, there is an increasing focus on soft ipants were held for the Essential Leadership module. skills that have a positive impact on our interactions with At company headquarters we also held short events on each other and promote cooperation. For example, from traditional executive duties, for example on conducting the beginning we convey to trainees our understanding performance appraisals, the topic of salary developof quality and service as well as key competencies that ment or labor law issues. are meaningful to tesa. Advanced Leadership In order to be successful over the long term, we must With the Advanced Leadership module we would like also offer our employees attractive development opporto give experienced executives the opportunity to tunities – both professionally and personally, at all levels deal with challenging leadership situations under proand in all areas. In order to identify and fully realize the fessional guidance. In 2019, 46 executives from the potential of our employees, we have established target regions of Germany, Europe, Greater China, Asia/Pacific group and expertise-oriented training programs. and North America participated in five training cycles of the module. 28 tesa Sustainability Report 2019 EMPLOYEES – Training, Development and Support 989 participants tic and elastomer technology) were introduced here. The in total took part in retention rate demonstrates that we intend to em­­ploy the apprentices over the long term. In Hamburg, eleven our training p ­ rograms of thirteen apprentices were retained in 2019, correin 2019. sponding to a rate of 84.6 percent. In Offenburg, the retention rate in 2019 was 72.7 percent. Qualification Programs The qualification programs contain basic qualifications for new employees and special formats tailored to the requirements of individual business units. The Sales and Marketing Qualification Program, for example, encomIn addition, we enable our employees to gain new passes a combination of technical training and sales ­experience in other units or regions. The tesa training skills for sales employees. port­folio includes function-specific training programs that are tailored, for example, to the areas of Sales & Here we use a “blended learning” approach, which comMarketing, Research & Development, or the tesa Supply bines in-person classroom presentations and e-learnNetwork. ing. In 2019, a total of 376 participants have taken part in 125 training days for the Sales & Marketing qualification A series of “open” course programs is also available. program. This includes, for example, methodological training courses, such as time and project management, or comThe training and qualification program for tesa R&D munication training courses, such as conflict manageemployees includes topics such as patents and quality ment, language courses, moderation or presentation management. A total of 175 people participated in this skills. In addition, leadership and management programs program in 38 training days during the reporting period. are available to managers and executives (see p. 26). The need for the development of tesa-specific training During the year under review, 551 employees particicourses and programs is regularly determined in conpated in a total of 163 days of training as part of these versations with management and adjusted accordingly. two qualification programs. This applies both to Germany and the regions. E-learnings Along with classroom training courses and programs, Measures and Results tesa offers its employees a broad range of e-learning courses, for example, from areas such as compliance, Training occupational safety, research and development or the In the technical area trainees can select from five differtesa Supply Network. ent apprenticeships: chemical technicians, electronics technicians for operating technology, industrial mechanIn 2019 we further expanded our e-learning course of­­ ics, machine and system operators and mechatronics ferings. For example, we rolled out three e-learning technicians. courses worldwide on the topic of compliance (see p. 15). In a ­ ddition, the units are now getting more support durAs of the end of 2019, the Hamburg-Hausbruch tesa ing the creation of their own e-learning courses. In 2019 plant had 44 apprentices. Machine operators represome 9,494 participants were registered in e-learning sent the largest group (16). The Offenburg tesa plant courses at tesa. also had 44 apprentices, six of whom are completing a cooperative university education and vocational t­ raining In 2020 it is planned to test the use of a “Learning Expe­program. Two additional courses of study (security, plasrience Platform.” This involves a digital learning plat­form tesa Sustainability Report 2019 EMPLOYEES – Training, Development and Support | Feedback and Dialogue 29 with content that is individually customizable to the speto deal with the new system and developed a com­mu­ cific user and can be retrieved on demand. nication concept for employees and executives. The introduction should be completed in all tesa regions in Open Course Program 2020. These classes are open to all employees by arrangement with their managers and include subjects such as HR Marketplace language classes and IT training sessions. The sessions In February 2019, the third HR Marketplace was held at comprised 35 days of training in 2019, with 225 employour headquarters in Norderstedt. We introduced current ees participating in Hamburg. At the tesa affiliates, offerings in the areas of career planning and qualificaemployees are offered specific training courses locally tion there. A particular focus this year was on our new as part of open course programs. X-perience career path model and the opportunities for cross-function transfer within the company (see p. 21). Learning Management System (LMS) During the event employees and managers had the The LMS (“learning hub”) provides employees with opportunity to speak to HR representatives, ask quesinformation on all the continuing education options on tions and provide feedback. offer at tesa and lets them register for courses. The platform helps the HR department document the complete range of training courses. In 2018 we began to expand Feedback and Dialogue the system. The goal was to automate and standardize training administration and organization in the area of Regular feedback and open dialogue between superviclassroom training courses, e-learning programs and sors and employees are aspects of a modern corporate blended learning across countries, while enabling each and management culture. Being able to discuss quesregion to manage itself. tions, ideas, expectations, goals and also problems creates a relationship based on trust between employees In 2019 LMS was successfully introduced in four regions. and managers and strengthens team spirit. In addition, For this we have trained selected HR points of contact it promotes mutual development. Given the challenging labor market situation, a strong feedback culture is a decisive factor in gaining the loyalty of employees to the company and increasing employer attractiveness. Along with technical content, soft skills, which promote cooperation, are increasingly becoming an essential part of ­tesa-specific training programs. Management Approach We would like to further improve the feedback culture at tesa and encourage employees and executives to use our feedback tools and actively seek a dialogue with those who provide feedback. Among the key instruments in this area are competency-based employee performance appraisals, 180° and 360° feedback (see p. 30) and competencies reviews (see p. 20). All formats are based on tesa Key Competencies – nine key competencies that determine how employees work at tesa. There are guidelines for conducting performance appraisals that apply worldwide. In addition, managers are trained in conducting these reviews. These reviews are usually conducted once a year, twice in some regions. The participation rate is at least 90 percent. 30 tesa Sustainability Report 2019 EMPLOYEES – Feedback and Dialogue Employee surveys are an important element of our Competency-based Employee Performance feedback culture. We conduct them at regular inter­Appraisals vals both at tesa’s headquarters and in the regions. The We also conducted competency-based employee peremployee surveys serve to measure the engagement of formance appraisals in the tesa regions in 2019. With our employees, their motivation and their loyalty to the this internationally uniform format we ensure dialogue company as well as to identify any elements that signifibetween employees and managers. Besides facilitating cantly affect these aspects. feedback to employees, it also enables employees to provide voluntary feedback to supervisors. Measures and Results Employee Survey Due to the development of a new corporate strategy, Leadership Feedback (180° Feedback) no surveys were conducted in the reporting year. The How do employees view their supervisors, and what next survey will be carried out following the global are their perceptions of the supervisors’ leadership? ­rollout of the new corporate strategy. Details are curTo answer these questions, we use a worldwide digirently being worked out. tal feedback tool, with which we survey employees on various aspects of leadership. And afterward, supervisors receive an anonymized analysis they can use as a basis to discuss the next steps with their employees. In addition, the managers have the opportunity to conduct a team workshop with their employees based on the results. The workshop should offer them a suitable space for discussing potential areas of development in the team. Since its introduction in 2018, 29 executives worldwide have used the feedback tool. 360° Feedback In the first half of 2019, we revamped our 360° feedback tool and adapted its design and structure to the successfully introduced leadership feedback. This also involves a digital tool with an anonymized online questionnaire. It takes into account not only the perspective of employees and supervisors, but also that of colleagues and internal customers. In Germany the 360° or 180° feed90 back tool (depending on the target group) is a mandatory component of executive training. Each participant in � executive training is automatically invited to participate in a feedback process. In consultation with HR and the respective supervisor, in principle every employee can participate in a 360° feedback process. In 2019 a total of 56 employees, including 33 executives, took advantage percent of the offer worldwide. is the participation rate in annual performance ­appraisals worldwide. tesa Sustainability Report 2019 EMPLOYEES – Occupational Health M ­ anagement 31 Occupational Health clude equipping all office workstations with height-­ ­Management adjustable desks to minimize back strain, in-house advising on ergonomics, which provides support on the proper height adjustment of desks and office chairs, Maintaining and promoting the health and productivand information on exercises people can do at their ity of employees are important concerns at tesa. We desks. This also includes the promotion of healthy eatwish to meet our responsibility as an employer beyond ing by offering healthy choices at the company’s res­providing a good workplace environment and opportaurant. The range of occupational health management tunities for promotion and continuing education. Moreoptions is constantly reviewed for its acceptance and over, health promotion to us is an expression of our effectiveness. respect for our employees. They regard offerings in this area as the defining feature of a modern employer and attach increasing importance to occupational health Measures and Results management. Psychological Risk Assessments In 2019, we performed psychological risk assessments Management Approach in three other areas (Direct, Trade, and IT) based on the German Occupational Safety and Health Act. The cycle To promote and preserve employees’ health, tesa also of psychological risk assessments is now up to 95 perhas a broad-based occupational health management cent complete, with surveys to be conducted every program. Under the “It’s for you” slogan, an interdiscithree to five years in all areas. plinary team in Hamburg is working to develop a wide range of measures. The team includes representatives Diverse Health Offerings from HR as the coordinating body, the works council, the With regular lectures, training courses, and action days, health promotion team, the tesa sport club, the social we encourage our employees to pursue a healthy life advising service, the body representing em­­ ployees and work experience. As in previous years, workshops with disabilities, the occupational health service and on relaxation techniques, preventive health checks and the area of occupational safety. The goal is to minimize action days on occupational safety topics were also strain, while simultaneously strengthening the personal conducted in 2019. In addition, employees can take resources. advantage of the social advising service and psychological consultation hours, if needed. The tesa sport club offers tesa employees in Norderstedt a wide range of fitness and relaxation options, New Offerings at the tesa Plant Hamburg including endurance and strength training equipment With the expansion of occupational health management and a variety of courses like spinning, yoga and back at the Hamburg tesa plant, new health offerings are strength building, along with individual fitness checks. available to employees there. For example, there is a Employees at the sites in Hamburg can use the options course on the topic of healthy leadership, a smoke-free offered by our in-house occupational health manageprogram and resilience training. In addition, we offer ment service and those offered by our parent company, active breaks at the plant and have expanded the sports Beiersdorf, which include autogenic training, progresand massage offerings. sive muscle relaxation, and workshops on back health and relaxation techniques. Another key aspect of the company’s efforts to promote health is its extensive array of preventive health checks. These include vein screenings, skin cancer prevention and colorectal cancer screening. Further measures in­­ 32 tesa Nachhaltigkeitsbericht 2019 ENVIRONMENT Energy and resource-­ saving technologies, such as the CHP systems, contribute to improving energy efficiency at tesa. ENVIRONMENT Our contribution to the SDGs As a chemical company with production facilities in different countries, tesa bears tremendous responsibility for environmental issues. Treating the environment, natural resources and raw materials with great care is one of our corporate goals. This strengthens people’s trust in our brand and safeguards the foundation of our success as a company. Therefore, we have been working for many years on reducing our environmental footprint – thereby also helping our customers achieve their sustainable development goals. tesa Sustainability Report 2019 ENVIRONMENT 33 USA CHINA Environmental protection has been a key element of tesa’s business strategy for years, and it is firmly es­­tab­ lished throughout the Group by environmental guidelines. The guidelines provide all employees with a standard for our actions: Our products and system so­lutions should be structured in such a way that they are Four awards in as harmless as possible to the environment over their half a year entire life cycle. The environmental guidelines are available to all employees on the intranet. They are also an In 2019 two tesa sites received awards integral component of environmental training for relerecognizing their commitment to environvant employee groups at ISO 14001-certified sites. mental protection, among other things. tesa’s primary environmental impact is the energy In January 2019 our plant in Suzhou, China, consumption at its production facilities. We therefore received the “Excellent Personnel for Environput particular emphasis on protecting the climate and mental Management” award. With the award, reducing CO2 emissions. Resource efficiency and the the management of Suzhou Industrial Park (SIP), economical use of water are also top priorities for us. which with approximately 25,000 resident Applicable legislative provisions, which we implement enterprises is the second largest industrial at all our sites, form the basis of our work in the area of park in China, recognizes local companies fea­ climate protection. turing advanced environmental management or in­­di­viduals who stand out through special However, our commitment goes further: At all sites with a performance in this area. significant environmental impact, we use environmental management systems to control environmental perforIn summer 2019, the plant received two more mance effectively. Seven production facilities and tesa’s awards from SIP for its outstanding performance headquarters (see p. 22) have an ISO 14001-­certified in energy conservation and emission reducenvironmental management system. tion in 2018 as well as for its system to monitor what are known as volatile organic compounds Environmental experts work at all ISO 14001-certified (VOC). The regular maintenance work, which sites. They are familiar with tesa’s global environ­mental significantly exceeds the legal requirements, guidelines as well as local legislation and the status of received special praise. They make it possible on-site technology. In order to achieve continuous im­­ to operate the equipment in a manner that is provement and to further reduce our environmental particularly protective of the environment and footprint, experts compile comparative figures and iniefficient. tiate corresponding projects. These projects are summarized in our environmental program, which applies Also in summer 2019, tesa tape North America across the company: The program enables us to specify (Sparta) received the “Green Supplier Award” our environmental commitment and set regular, ambifrom Japanese automotive supplier Yazaki as tious Group-wide targets. the Supplier of the Year in terms of the environment, health promotion and safety. The annual Another important element of our environmental manaward presentation is preceded by a multi-­ agement is dealing with risks proactively: As part of our month audit, in which Yazaki evaluates its environmental management activities, we identify and suppliers in detail regarding their commitment evaluate opportunities and risks in relation to environin the areas of energy reduction, promotion mental aspects both at the level of individual ­production of environmental awareness, reduction of air, facilities and across the board. This approach enables us soil and water pollution, community service to respond to changes early on, to avert costs and damand healthy and safe working conditions. 34 tesa Sustainability Report 2019 ENVIRONMENT – Climate Protection and CO2 Emissions age to our reputation as well as to take advantage of 8 sites the opportunities that present themselves. At the same time, routine risk identification and evaluation make it have an easier for us to select suitable measures to p ­ rotect the ISO 14001-certified environment. environmental management system. Climate Protection and CO2 Emissions Climate change is one of the key social challenges of our time. At tesa we contribute to climate protection by panies acquired in 2017 and 2018). They have relatively increasing our energy efficiency and reducing our CO2 high energy consumption, due, for example, to drying or emissions. In this context, it is especially important for waste air purification processes, causing them to have tesa as an industrial supplier to prepare for future develhigher CO2 emission levels. According to our calculaopments in overall regulatory conditions: Policy meastions, 94 percent of our Scope 1 and Scope 2 emissions ures enacted to protect the climate, efficiency targets accrue to sites with certified environmental manageand the further expansion of renewable energies may ment systems. affect tesa’s business activities. Threshold limits, technical standards, and approval processes for energy genIn addition to the environmental management system, eration and production facilities are also in flux, which tesa’s headquarters and the production facilities with the calls for a forward-looking approach highest CO2 emissions (Hamburg and Offenburg) have an energy management system certified in accordance In order to live up to our own ambition to provide effecwith ISO 50001. They account for almost 70 percent of tive climate protection, we take advantage of our innothe CO2 emissions of all ISO 14001-certified sites. This vative capacity: It helps us to continuously improve our can be explained by the fact that tesa’s headquarters products and production processes also with respect to has the most employees and the largest research and environmental impact. For example, we are manufacdevelopment unit, and Hamburg and Offenburg are the turing more and more products using energy-efficient, largest production facilities. The energy management solvent-free production processes. By doing so, we also systems set the stage for further increasing energy efficontribute to more sustainability for customers. That ciency at the sites. can, in turn, increase interest in our products and give us a competitive advantage. The targets that we set for ourselves in a given period are regularly reviewed and revised. Through our internal planning and reporting activities, we identify, as­­ Management Approach sess and monitor risks and measures associated with reducing CO2 emissions at the level of the sites certified We use ISO 14001 certified environmental management according to ISO 14001. We review the effectiveness systems at eight sites for the continuous management of our activities by keeping track of monthly site-speof our internal environmental protection. The ISO 14001 cific energy consumption. We determine Scope 1 and standard is an internationally recognized approach Scope 2 CO2 emissions based on the guidelines of the to management of the direct and long-term environ­ Greenhouse Gas Protocols. mental impacts of products, services and processes of a company. Certified sites include all production facilThe current target period runs from 2016 to 2020. ities with related coating and/or adhesive production We have set ourselves the goal of reducing specific (this does not include the production sites of the comCO2 emissions per ton of end product (location based) tesa Sustainability Report 2019 ENVIRONMENT – Climate Protection and CO2 Emissions 35 In addition to electricity, the CHP systems also produce heat, which is used during the production process or as heating. tesa will have at least four of these systems in operation by the end of 2020. by 2020 by another ten percent compared to the 2015 emissions and the related costs. tesa corporate manreference year. As of the reporting date, we were at agement conducts a management review every year as -9.8 percent. part of this process. The environmental experts at the respective locations bear operational responsibility. Energy consumption is the most important control parameter for reducing our environmental impacts. Another strategic approach for increasing energy effiWithin the framework of a continuous improvement prociency is the use of energy and resource-saving techcess and based on the environmental program as well nologies. This includes the efficient generation of our as the environmental audit, the objective is to identify own energy through cogeneration: We began operatenergy conservation opportunities, optimize energy-­ ing a combined cooling, heat and power (CCHP) system intensive processes and thereby to reduce our CO2 for in-house power generation at the Offenburg plant in 2014, and the Hamburg plant followed suit with a combined heat and power (CHP) plant in 2016. In these ­systems, we use not only the electricity generated, but 3 also the heat that is produced, for production processes or for heating. In order to reduce our CO2 emissions, however, we rely not only on improving our energy efficiency – obtaining electricity from renewable sources also represents an sites important lever for this. In 2019 we purchased electricity have an from renewable sources at five German sites, covering about 34 percent of our demand for the ISO 14001 cerISO 50001-certified tified sites. energy management All emissions along the entire value chain that do not system. fall under Scope 1 and Scope 2 are assigned to Scope 3 36 tesa Sustainability Report 2019 ENVIRONMENT – Climate Protection and CO2 Emissions together supplied about 37 percent of our worldwide electricity demand at ISO 14001 certified sites. The specific CO2 ­emissions per metric ton of end During the reporting period, the fluorescent lamps in the production and storage areas at the ­Hamburg ­product were reduced production facility were replaced by light-emitting by 9.8 percent (­location diodes (LED) and two additional buildings were connected to CHP heating. At the headquarters ­based) in 2019 compared location, it was possible to conserve electricity conwith 2015. sumption during the reporting period by optimizing the room air conditioning in the technology center and the centralized generation of compressed air. In 2020, additional conservation of electricity and gas consumption is planned by reducing the operation emissions. In 2018, we collected data for material emisof ventilation systems at the technology center dursions throughout the value chain for the first time. In ing non-operating times. the process, we identified the areas of packaging, raw materials, finished good suppliers and product transport Performance Indicator as material Scope 3 categories. A more detailed CO2 We were able to reduce the specific CO2 emissions monitoring system for outbound logistics will be estabper metric ton of end product according to the marlished in 2020. ket-based method, taking into account electricity from renewable sources, by 1.8 percentage points compared to the previous year during the reporting Measures and Results period. Compared to the 2015 reference year, overall we are at -9.8 percent according to the location-­ Environmental and Energy Audits based method in 2019, and are within the target External environmental audits are conducted annually range of the 10 percent reduction we are pursuing as part of matrix certification of the ISO 14001 sites. for 2020. Internal system audits are also conducted at selected ISO 14001 sites. In the first quarter of 2019, the tesa plants in Hamburg and Offenburg underwent the annual external exam­ ination audit of the energy management system in accordance with ISO 50001:2011. At the headquarters, the first recertification audit was carried out according to the new ISO 50001:2018 standard in the fourth quarter of 2019. Energy Efficiency Measures During the reporting year, the implementation phase began for the CHP systems at the tesa plant in ­Concagno, Italy, and tesa SE in Norderstedt. The CHP system in Concagno was put into operation in the third quarter of 2019. The commissioning of the CHP ­system at headquarters is planned for the third quarter of 2020. In 2019, the two plants in Hamburg and Offenburg tesa Sustainability Report 2019 ENVIRONMENT – Climate Protection and CO2 Emissions 37 Key Figures for Climate Protection and CO2 Emissions Energy use unit 2015 1 2018 2019 Natural gas GWh 204 275 248 Crude oil GWh 0 0 0 District heat GWh 0 0 0 Electricity from renewable sources GWh 0 26 28 Conventionally generated electricity GWh 60 26 25 Total energy use GWh 265 327 301 Greenhouse gas emissions, location-based 2 unit 2015 1 2018 2019 2020 target CO2 direct (Scope 1) 1,000 t 41 56 50 CO2 indirect (Scope 2) 1,000 t 28 24 23 CO2 total 1,000 t 69 79 73 Change 2019 vs. 2015 4 % – – -9.8 -10.0 Greenhouse gas emissions, market-based 3 unit 2015 1 2018 2019 CO2 direct (Scope 1) 1,000 t 41 56 50 CO2 indirect (Scope 2) 1,000 t 41 14 13 CO2 total 1,000 t 83 70 63 Change 2019 vs. 2015 4 % – – -34.5 1 Reference year; 2 Definitions according to the GHG Protocol Scope 2 Standard; source, CO2e factors: GHG Protocol / IEA; 3 Definitions according to the GHG Protocol Scope 2 Standard; source, CO2e factors: electricity providers and/or residual mix: RE-DISS (07/2017); emission factor for electricity from renewable sources is set as equal to zero; 4 with reference to production volume 38 tesa Sustainability Report 2019 ENVIRONMENT – Efficient Use of Resources Efficient Use of Resources Management Approach In accordance with our environmental guidelines, we In order to offer our customers products that are as harm­ strive to produce, to use and to dispose of products less as possible to the environment over their entire life in such a way as to minimize our harmful impact on the cycle, we take care to employ environmentally friendly, environ­ment. The efficient use of resources is key. To be solvent-free manufacturing processes from the early sure, waste cannot be fully avoided during the producstages of developing our products. Wherever possible tion of goods. However, we are committed to reducing and sensible we use renewable and recycled raw mateit efficiently in order to preserve nat­­u­­­ral resources. We rials. Measures to this end are an integral part of our therefore constantly work on rais­ing awareness among environmental protection activities as a company. We all stakeholders about avoiding un­­nec­es­sary waste and also regularly raise awareness among our employees engaging in professional recycling. regarding the subjects of reducing and sorting waste. In addition to our consistent compliance with legal We base our waste and raw material management on requirements, we also take further measures: We refine the waste pyramid (see diagram): Avoiding and reducour environmental management systems on an ongoing ing waste has the highest priority, followed by various basis, and to this end, engage in dialogue with exteroptions for recycling. Waste is disposed only when it is nal experts as well. We also provide our stakeholders unavoidable. with candid, transparent information on our goals and successes in this area. With these measures we have In order to use materials efficiently and recycle wheralready significantly reduced our environmental impact ever possible, we constantly work on minimizing proin the area of resource efficiency. duction-related losses of the raw materials we use Employees from production, process development and technology are participating in the project “Big Ideas Instead of Waste” at the tesa plant Offenburg. The long-term oriented campaign is expected to contribute to the continuous reduction of energy and resource use. tesa Sustainability Report 2019 ENVIRONMENT – Efficient Use of Resources 39 Waste Pyramid – Priorization of Waste Categories Most preferred Waste avoidance & reduction option Reuse Recycle Recovery/Treatment Least preferred Disposal option when producing adhesives, coating tapes and cutting quality, p ­ erformance or protection of our products in rolls. The waste generated during the production prothe process. When using packaging, we attach imporcess is collected separately on a site-specific basis tance to the highest possible degree of recyclability of according to various waste categories and recycled to the packaging materials. For example, we give p ­ riority the greatest extent possible. For reporting purposes, to cardboard packaging and reusable pallets and use it is summa­rized in categories based on whether it is single-source plastic as much as possible. In addition, non-hazard­ous or hazardous and whether it is for diswe try to avoid the use of metal or aluminum or ensure posal or recycling (see p. 40). tesa recycles almost all that labels, adhesives and inks do not impair recycla­ non-­hazardous waste and hazardous waste containing bility. Information on the packaging, for example regardsolvents. Ongoing improvements in machinery and proing the class of materials used, makes it easier for the duction processes – including some at our employees’ end customer to choose the proper form of disposal. instigation – have allowed us to reduce our waste volIn the consumer & craftsmen area, for example, we umes on a continuous basis. have lowered the weight of our packaging in order to reduce packaging waste. In addition, we take care to For the current target period of 2016 to 2020, we have use primarily FSC-certified materials for our paper, cardset ourselves the goal of reducing specific waste volboard and carton packaging. Our long-term goal is to ume per metric ton of end product by another two peravoid plastic packaging completely and instead to use centage points from the 2015 reference year. Material bio-based films or films made from recyclables. In this losses during the production process are an important regard, new forms of packaging are being considered, control parameter in order to achieve this goal. for example replacing shrink wrap with a paper sleeve or a folding carton. We have continued to optimize logisThe reduction and avoidance of packaging materitics and to standardize the shipping cartons we use as als also help to minimize waste and thereby the negamuch as possible in order to reduce the large number tive impact on the environment. In the industrial area, of different sizes. We also aim for an optimal palette utiour goal is to reduce the amount of packaging matelization in order to avoid unnecessary transport, thereby rials as much as possible and to avoid all packaging reducing CO2 emissions. that is not absolutely necessary – without harming the 40 tesa Sustainability Report 2019 ENVIRONMENT – Efficient Use of Resources Measures and Results Categorized by waste disposal method, our waste volumes in 2019 were as follows: Employee Involvement We would like to harness our employees’ expertise in Waste volumes by type and disposal method 2019 order to develop waste-reducing measures. Therefore, in 1,000 t in 2019 we continued the successful campaign “Big Ideas Instead of Waste” in the tesa plant in Offenburg. 1.6 Behind this campaign is a long-term project through 0.6 Disposal which we intend to continuously reduce energy and Disposal (hazardous (non-hazardous waste) 5.7 resource use. Employees from production, process waste) Recycling (non-­hazardous development and technology are participating in the waste) project. The project involves regular intra-departmental and inter-departmental discussions, which assist in coordinating the implementation of potential improvements and in fostering an exchange regarding best 2019 practice solutions. The project includes communication 9.8 measures that are designed to create awareness of Recycling (hazardous the issue among employees. In 2019 some 27 projects waste) involving waste reduction were implemented. A few of them also contribute indirectly to energy savings since the saved materials no longer need to undergo the manufacturing process. In sum, compared to the base year, the volume of waste per metric ton of end product was adjusted for mix effects that resulted from the weighting of the various Performance Indicators sites and could be reduced by 4.4 percent (by deducting mix effects, we can represent the performance of our Our reduction goal focuses on avoiding waste. If waste sites and our progress more transparently). We are thus cannot be avoided, it should at least be recycled as on target Group-wide. much as possible. Therefore, we aim to keep waste volumes sent for disposal as low as possible. tesa Sustainability Report 2019 ENVIRONMENT – Responsible Use of Water 41 Responsible Use of Water Managing Water Risks As a result of climate change and the growing global We would like to reduce risks for water sources that population, clean water is becoming scarcer worldwide. result from our production as much as possible. ThereEven though we at our sites are not currently affected fore, we take preventive measures against any conceivby water shortages or other high water-related risks, we able accidents. For example, liquids that pose a threat nevertheless view water as a valuable resource for peoto water are emptied and refilled or stored only in areas ple and ecosystems that must be protected. that are equipped with appropriate retention tanks. Equipment to measures turbidity and solvent concenIn our production processes, we strive for the careful tration ensure that no contaminated surface water is and economical use of water. Furthermore, as a chemchanneled into the sewage system. If a relevant quanical company that operates worldwide, we consider it tity of water-endan­ger­ing substances leaks, emergency to be our responsibility to protect water sources from plans that govern the precise procedure are enacted. contamination caused by our production activities. This All of these measures are regularly reviewed in our awareness is reflected in our Group-wide environmental external ISO 14001 audits and are the prerequisite for a guidelines. successful audit result. Water Usage at tesa Among other things, we use water for the production of adhesives – for example for the dilution and granulation of rubber or to manufacture intermediate products. In recent years, the share of water-based products has increased significantly – and the trend is upward. Water is added as a solvent to water-based adhesives. But water is also used in cutting and cooling processes or for the moistening of release papers. However, at least half of our total water consumption involves sanitary purposes. In 2019, our water withdrawal amounted to approx­i­ mately 656,000 m3. Of this, 396,000 m3 is well wa­­ ter, 260,000 m3 is derived from municipal sources. Our water consumption in 2019 was approximately 40 410,000 m3. � Two German production facilities and the headquarters account for approximately 77 percent of our total water withdrawal. At these three sites, we draw on technological solutions in order to ensure the most efficient use of water. Approximately 40 percent of the water is used in cooling systems and is done so repeatedly. percent of the water we use is repeatedly utilized in cooling systems. 42 tesa Nachhaltigkeitsbericht 2019 PRODUCT RESPONSIBILITY tesa also offers n ­ umerous solutions for the solar ­industry, for example for frame ­mounting. PRODUCT RESPONSIBILITY Our contribution to the SDGs We view it as part of our corporate responsibility to offer our customers safe, durable and harmless products. ­Product responsibility begins for us right from the procurement of raw materials. We purchase them regionally to the extent possible, and are working on further increasing transparency about the origin of the materials used. In addition, we take care to comply with environmental, social and labor standards in our supply chain. tesa Sustainability Report 2019 PRODUCT RESPONSIBILITY – Responsibility in the Supply Chain 43 Our product responsibility includes ensuring the safety Management Approach of our products over their entire life cycle. In addition, we are continuously working on improving the product In order to accommodate general developments in prodesign in order to minimize the environmental impacts curement, such as rising raw material prices, changes in of our products. Applicable laws and regulations estabsales and distribution channels, and shifts in the comlish the foundation for our product responsibility. Howpetition situation, tesa has created a central function ever, our commitment goes even deeper. Our environcalled the tesa Purchasing Network (tPN), which brings mental and product safety policies include strict internal together cross-sector activities and resources, and manguidelines that are designed to ensure the safety and ages all processes across the Group. environmental compatibility of our products. With these guidelines, we provide all employees with a clear frameThe Head of the tesa Supply Network, which is part work for action for the development, production and of tesa management, bears responsibility for supply market observation of our products. chain activities and is supported by the regional supply chain organizations. Our purchasing organization, Our aim is to offer our customers products that harm which is also part of the tesa Supply Network organithe environment as little as possible over their entire life zation, has offices in Germany, China, Korea, ­Malaysia cycle and are safe to use. and the USA. Our global purchasing processes are defined and described in the Purchasing Compliance Guideline (PCG), which is part of the Group-wide ComResponsibility pliance Handbook. This guideline includes binding rules of conduct for tesa as the purchaser. In March 2019, the in the Supply Chain revised Purchasing Compliance Guideline was introduced. The focus was on the adjustment of the release Efficient supplier management is highly significant for regulations for the purpose of organizing the approval the quality of our products – and thereby our business processes more efficiently. success. For our production we need raw materials and chemicals that we purchase from numerous suppliers The Purchasing Compliance Guideline also stipulates worldwide and transport to our sites. The largest prothat tesa employees who engage in purchasing activity curement markets are Europe and Asia with China as must require the main suppliers that supply tesa directly the main country of origin. to sign the Code of Conduct for Suppliers (CoCfS). The CoCfS establishes the foundation for the responsible The tesa value chain is aligned globally and must be management of our global procurement processes and designed in such a way that it can anticipate future develdescribes fundamental rules and obligations in the area opments and respond to them. To meet this requirement, of human rights, labor standards, environmental protecwe qualify our suppliers on a systematic basis and work tion and corruption prevention. The ten principles of the to streamline our supply chains through local purchasing UN Global Compact also serve as a basis here. New supteams. They know and observe the local market in detail pliers must accept the contents of the CoCfS before the and are able to make a realistic assessment of the posfirst order. Otherwise, no business relationship is estabsible risks arising from issues such as political instability lished. If the supplier does not comply with this demand, and changes in local legislation. We also minimize potenwe seek to terminate the business relationship. tial risks by building a network of alternative suppliers. Within the tesa Group, the Group internal audit departIn addition, due to the international nature of our value ment monitors the purchasing standards that apply chain, we are exposed to a certain level of risk with worldwide and the associated processes at the affiliregard to human rights violations. We aim to know the ates by conducting regular “Purchase to Pay” audits, origin of the raw and intermediate products we purwhich review all processes from procurement through chase and provide traceability. to invoicing. In the process, Group internal audit depart44 tesa Sustainability Report 2019 PRODUCT RESPONSIBILITY – Responsibility in the Supply Chain | Product Safety ment also checks whether the main suppliers are subject Training Courses to any corresponding obligations under CoCfS. If necesSince 2017 we have regularly trained all process ownsary, the department calls for corrective measures. ers in the application of the Purchasing Compliance Guideline. The online training developed specifically for this purpose also explains the role played by the Measures and Results CoCfS as an element of our procurement processes at tesa. Approximately 75 percent of the target group of Fair, Environmentally Responsible and Reliable the training have successfully completed the e-learning Supply Chains by the end of 2019. Along with the commitment of our main suppliers to the tesa CoCfS, our clear goal is to gradually increase An improved training concept was introduced along transparency and sustainability in the supply chain. By with the revised purchasing compliance guideline: doing so, we intend to detect risks to sustainability in Besides online training, the relevant employees can the supply chain and to avoid them through dialogue now reserve a trainer for on-site training. The focus here with the suppliers. In order to monitor the observance is on improving understanding for the contents of the of human rights, working conditions and environmental PCG and to eliminate any ambiguities, thereby fosteraspects in the supply chain, we developed a Sustaining better understanding and creating acceptance in the ability Assessment and Audit Program, which focuses global organization. on tesa’s top suppliers, during the reporting year. ­EcoVadis assessments and SMETA audits, which we evaluated in a pilot phase in 2019, are key components Product Safety of the p ­ rogram. The safety of our products is decisive for the satisfaction of our customers and thereby for our economic success. It makes a major contribution to creating and maintaining people’s trust in our products. If products display safety defects, this can have a negative impact – on the people who deal with them as well as on the natural environment. At the same time, our company can also suffer serious harm from product incidents. Actions such as recalling products can result in financial losses or damage our reputation. On the other hand, companies that ensure a high degree of product safety and quality benefit from competitive advantages – for example, by sharpening their brand profile or penetrating new markets more quickly. We aim to make products that satisfy the highest quality and safety requirements. The tesa Code of Conduct for Suppliers Management Approach is binding for all main We would like to design products and processes in such suppliers that a way that they fulfill the diverse expectations of our stakeholders and no one is harmed during their producsupply tesa directly. tion or use. tesa Sustainability Report 2019 PRODUCT RESPONSIBILITY – Product Safety 45 duction or even directions, such as inaccurate instruction manuals, during the development process. As a rule, a safety data sheet, which includes safety-related information for example on materials and substances, proper storage or handling, as well as recommendations for disposal, is available for every product. The safety data sheets are available in almost 40 languages. Once products are already on the market, our business units continue to monitor them. If the units recognize that a renewed risk analysis and evaluation as well as corresponding measures are required, they initiate the necessary steps to ensure the health and safety of our customers and employees. There were no recall actions by end customers during the reporting year. The product safety officers (PSO) are important for our work in this area. Every major plant worldwide has a Extensive tests, measurements and analyses throughout the local PSO who reports to the “Corporate PSO,” the cenproduct development process are designed to ensure that our trally responsible PSO. All PSOs have completed a recsolutions are reliable and safe to use. ognized, external training course. They are usually also the quality officers at the plants. In order to offer our customers safe and high-quality Measures and Results products, we comply with applicable laws and guidelines. Our internal product safety guidelines, which Training Courses expand upon the strict legal provisions, play a key role For our worldwide training measures, we use e-learnhere. They describe mandatory measures enabling us to ing courses developed in 2018 in addition to classfurther increase the safety of our products. In addition, room training. During the reporting year, we have again they specify the roles and responsibilities of the prodtrained employees in the topics of chemicals legislauct safety officers. The tesa Product Safety Guideline tion, product liability and product issues management. applies worldwide and can be accessed on our intranet. They include employees from the areas of research & development, process development and marketing as Product safety management at tesa is an essential well as the PSOs. In the event of legislative changes, the component of quality management, for which control Corporate PSO revises the training courses. In 2019 we is shared by the organizational structure and manageexpanded the e-learning courses with content from the ment. The Product Safety and Product Development area of product safety management and assigned them departments are responsible for assessing materials and to the relevant employees. substances. For their assessments, they rely on various chemical databases, evaluate research findings and conAudits sider information on safety-related substance properties In order to check the safety of our products and proand the safe handling of substances and mixtures. In cesses, we have also conducted internal audits during order to avoid product errors, the Product Development the reporting year. The Quality Management departand Production departments conduct failure mode and ment and the product safety officers are responsieffects analyses (FMEA), among other measures. This ble for these audits. Both event-driven and annually helps them to identify potential defects in design, proplanned audits are carried out. In addition to the areas 46 tesa Sustainability Report 2019 PRODUCT RESPONSIBILITY – Product Safety | Enabling Sustainability for Customers of research and development and production, marketEnabling Sustainability for ing is also reviewed if necessary. Customers Safety First We take the quality and safety of our products very seritesa products represent the highest level of quality, ously. Therefore, in 2019 we developed a concept for safety and the responsible use of resources. With our further improving our approach to identifying safety-­ applications and solutions, we support our industrial relevant products. We also expanded our reporting partners in improving their processes or products. Our system for the area of product safety during the reportproducts help private users and professional craftsing year. men to perform their daily tasks and projects simply – whether at home or at work. We want our products to be as harmless as possible to people and the environment over their entire life cycle. Therefore, in our corporate strategy we have set ourselves the goal of increasing energy efficiency, reducing the use of solvents in the production of adhesives and, wherever possible, using renewable or recyclable raw materials. Management Approach We analyze the ecological balance of selected products using life cycle assessments: With this holistic approach, we determine what environmental impacts The building-integrated photovoltaics attached with tesa® these products have over their entire life cycle and how ACX plus make it possible to supply the building with ­renewable these impacts can be mitigated. energy and are not recognizable as solar units. However, we do not make only our own products more and more environmentally friendly but also support our customers’ efforts to contribute to climate protection or resource conservation with our solutions: Our applications help them to manufacture their products in a more durable, efficient and energy-saving manner. This results in lower CO2 emissions and less waste. Measures and Results Solutions for Industrial Customers In the electronics industry, adhesive tapes are one of the most important components in electronic equipment. They help make the devices more durable, avoid resource-intensive new purchases and make it easier to dispose of them later. tesa Sustainability Report 2019 PRODUCT RESPONSIBILITY – Enabling Sustainability for Customers 47 SWITZERLAND A good example is the use of our tesa® Bond & Detach products in smartphones: The complex design of modern smartphones makes it difficult to disassemble them. This is a particular challenge for repairs or for safe and efficient recycling. Our tesa® Bond & Detach products make it possible to fasten components such as batteries in such a way that they hold permanently. At the same time, they protect the device from shocks. If necessary, components can be easily removed without leaving any residue. In this way the electronic components can be replaced, disposed of properly or recycled. As a result, our products contribute to extending the useful life and improv­Environmentally ing the recyclability of the devices. Similarly, tesa® Bond & Detach can conserve resources during the pro­friendly and perma­ duction of consumer electronics: If in the past a battery nently ­bonded was incorrectly glued to the case, it would no longer be possible to loosen it again and the manufacturer would During the production of double-­ have to dispose of the entire component. Thanks to tesa® sided acrylic adhesive tapes for Bond & Detach, manufacturers can now simply remove highly durable adhesive bonds, our the components and put them in the right place. unique, patented ACX technology has been used for years now. tesa also continuously seeks environmentally friendly alternatives for the use of resources: For example, the The ACX method removes the electronics department plans to develop a new product solvents used from the adhesive, series in 2020 that is based largely on acrylate monoeliminating the need for energy-­ mers. This substance is produced from bioalcohols. In intensive drying. Compared to con­ addition, resins from natural resources are added to the ventional production processes, adhesive. 50 percent less solvents and energy are used. This is made possible by We enable manufacturers from the automotive industry a technology that was developed to produce lighter vehicles. For example, we offer soluinternally by tesa and is supported tions for fastening and insulating the lithium-ion battery by the German Federal Ministry elements of climate-friendly hybrid and electric vehifor the Environment, Nature Consercles. Since the batteries take up a great deal of space, vation and Nuclear Safety. space-saving adhesive tapes for fastening are a better alternative to conventional screws and rivets. FurtherThe tesa® ACX plus products for more, adhesive tapes are lighter by comparison – and a per­ma­nent adhesives are used in the low overall weight is an important requirement when it automotive, electronics, wind and comes to extending the range of e-autos or reducing the solar, construction and other indusfuel consumption of gasoline engines. tesa’s adhesive tries. For example, as with a building die cuts, which increasingly are replacing conventional project in Switzerland, building plugs, also help cover holes with water, air and dustintegrated photovoltaics (BIPV) can tight seals. The adhesive points are many times lighter be attached particularly simply and than the plugs.  insights.tesa.com safely to the facade with the help of tesa® ACX plus. This makes it possi­ble With our Primerless product line, we also help our custo efficiently provide the building tomers reduce the use of chemicals in production: For with renewable energy. 48 tesa Sustainability Report 2019 the products of this line adhere to low-energy ­surfaces without pretreatment. As a result, bonding agents be­­ come superfluous and the ingredients they contain that are hazardous to health are avoided. In this way, not only is the environment protected, but the safety of employees in the production line is improved. Our adhesive tapes can also help improve air quality in vehicles. Certain plasticizers and adhesives already The plate mounting can be attached directly to the coated tesa® release what are known as volatile organic compounds Twinlock-Sleeve and removed again without difficulty. By doing so, plate mounting tapes are avoided – along with waste and (VOC) at room temperature. They contribute, for examtransport emissions. ple, to the “new car smell.” Since some VOCs have been linked in the past to health problems, the emission limits in vehicle interiors are strictly regulated worldwide. Accordingly, demand is increasing for solutions featuring the low emission of VOCs. Therefore, along with Our solutions for the area of renewable energy support adhesive tapes with low VOC values we offer the Ultra our customers’ efforts to extend the useful life of their Low VOC option, which emits only negligible amounts of equipment in particular. For example, the production VOC. Our adhesive tapes comply with the limits in every of solar panels employs various applications for frame country and in every automotive market. and box mounting as well as for cell and cable fastening. Our solutions are guaranteed to be weather-resistant; Our products also contribute to more sustainability in this has been verified by TÜV Rheinland in accordance the print and paper industry. So that scrap paper can with the IEC 61215 international standard.  insights. be recycled successfully, ink and other foreign objects, tesa.com such as metal clips and adhesive tapes, must first be removed from the paper. The paper fibers that are Our adhesive tape and film solutions for the rotor blades recovered after this process – called “deinking” – can of wind turbines are also particularly weather-resistant. be used as raw material for paper production. tesa® For example, they protect the edges from wear caused EasySplice adhesive tapes for the print and paper by rain or particle erosion. Our UV and salt water-resistindustry have been certified for the deinking process ant anti-slip coating on or in the nacelle increases safety by the International Association of the Deinking Indusfor the maintenance personnel. With acrylate foams of try (INGEDE) since they can be detached easily from the the tesa® ACX plus brand, tesa offers products for the perpaper fibers. In the process, they support paper recymanent bonding of flow elements on the blade, increascling and minimize waste. ing efficiency and reducing noise. With tesa® Twinlock we also offer a resource-conservGeneral Applications and Products: ing product for “flexographic printing.” This is a special Also with products that are used across industries, we printing process, which is used, for example, for printing take care that our applications are environmentally on packaging. tesa® Twinlock is a reusable alternative friendly and have a positive impact on the recyclability for the assembly of plate mountings: The plate mounting or useful lives of products. Our packing adhesive tape is attached directly to the coated tesa® Twinlock sleeve, with fingerlift, for example, can be completely removed which makes the use of adhesive tapes obsolete. After from cardboard packaging so that packaging can be the printing process, the plate mounting can be removed recycled more easily. For some time now, we have again without difficulty and the sleeve can be used for the been developing solvent-free adhesive tapes based on next order. By eliminating plate mounting tapes for plate natural rubber. By doing so, we reduce possible enviassembly, tesa® Twinlock improves the CO2 footprint ronmental and health risks that stem from traditional since waste and transport emissions can be avoided. solvents. tesa Sustainability Report 2019 PRODUCT RESPONSIBILITY – Enabling Sustainability for Customers 49 GERMANY Solutions for Consumers In the paper, office and stationery area, we are continuously expanding our product range for environmentally conscious consumers. Under the tesa® ecoLogo subbrand, we offer adhesive rollers, adhesive films, packing tape, glue sticks and correction rollers, which are manufactured from primarily recycled or natural materials. The tesa® ecoLogo complies with the demanding ISO 14021 standard for ecological products since solSupporting vents are completely dispensed with in their produc­Conscious Lifetion and primarily bio-based materials and recycled packages are used. tesamoll® products for sealing winstyles dow and door gaps as well as the tesa® ISO SYSTEM for uncomplicated interior roof insulation help users to Make it yourself instead of buyconserve energy and reduce the emission of CO2. They ing new. Repair and “upcycle” inalso prevent the penetration of moisture and improve stead of throwing away. With tesa® the indoor climate. products, everyday items can be upgraded and (seemingly) useless In May 2018, tesa acquired London-based FormFormthings can be given a new purpose. Form Ltd., and with it, the product Sugru®. With this malleable adhesive, everyday objects can be repaired Whether furniture, bicycles or dec­o­ra­ and embellished quickly and easily. This extends the tive knickknacks – mending used useful life of the objects and contributes to resource items instead of throwing them away conservation. is what the “Right to Repair M ­ ovement” stands for. The upcycling movement’s goal, on the other hand, is to take materials and products that can no longer be used in their orig­inal form or are out of style and trans­form them into functional, decorative and, above all, unique objects to save them from landing in the trash. tesa offers a wide variety of high-­ quality adhesive products for clever repairs, renovations, fastenings and decorations, and thus supports the rapidly growing trend among young people to embrace a sustainable lifestyle. And to make sure there’s never a lack of inspiration, tesa regularly collects creative ideas and reference guides. For more information please see:  insights.tesa.com 50 tesa Nachhaltigkeitsbericht 2019 SOCIAL COMMITMENT AND INVOLVEMENT Through the “mint:pink” project days, female students become familiar with the work of tesa scientists, for example in the physics laboratory. SOCIAL COMMITMENT AND INVOLVEMENT Our contribution to the SDGs Voluntarily assuming social responsibility is part of tesa’s corporate philosophy and firmly anchored in our corporate values. With our commitment as a company, we would like to make a positive contribution to society beyond our core business. Therefore, we are active globally, giving donations and sponsoring memberships. Our employees are also actively committed to volunteering. tesa Sustainability Report 2019 SOCIAL COMMITMENT AND INVOLVEMENT – tesa helps: Being There for Others 51 as a Good Neighbor It is important to us to build a bridge to the tesa core competencies and the strengths of the company with our social commitment and involvement: imagination In > 40 projects and an inventive spirit, solution orientation, practical support and team spirit. By doing so, we can ensure a worldwide tesa win-win situation for all sides – the supported organizaemployees were involved tions and projects as well as tesa itself. voluntarily. Management Approach Much as with our products, we would also like to create support projects based on its strategy and the corposustainable connections with our social engagement. rate giving policy. Our affiliates manage their volunteer Therefore, we have launched the “tesa connects” initiwork individually and differently based on the number ative as part of our corporate citizenship strategy. This of employees. For example, affiliates that have already strategy is complemented by a corporate giving polbeen associated with an initiative for many years organicy as well as guidelines for brand and product sponize regular annual action days, such as summer festi­ sorships. In order to implement the strategy, we have vals, renovation days or crafts afternoons during the defined three core areas, to which all projects that we Christmas season. They are most familiar with local support can be assigned: social commitment, supporting conditions and so can ensure that the respective measeducation and environmental protection. At the project ures effectively address the social challenges. Once a level, these are divided into the four pillars “tesa helps,” year, the regional companies report to the Corporate “tesa donates” (social), “tesa supports” (education) and Citizenship department on the projects in which they “tesa protects” (environment). have ­participated. The Corporate Citizenship department, which is a unit of Corporate Communications, bears overall responsibility for the topic of social commitment and involvement. tesa helps: Being There for It decides on all support activities of headquarters and Others as a Good Neighbor coordinates them. Once a year, employees can take a day off from work to work together with colleagues for The core idea of “tesa helps” is to offer neighborly assisa social cause. The Corporate Citizenship department tance that is needed in the immediate vicinity of our and cooperation partners such as tatkräftig e. V., a nonsites. Many of our employees live near our sites and profit initiative for volunteer activities, help employees would like to become involved in social causes in their to select the projects. area. On all continents, on-site tesa teams take on projects and get involved in the local community. The Executive Board explicitly supports and welcomes civic involvement – not only at the headquarters, but Commitment and Involvement in Germany also in the individual regions. For example, the ExecuEmployees of tesa SE, the Converting Center in Hamtive Board encourages affiliates to donate a portion of burg and the tesa plant Hamburg can voluntarily parlocal sales to social projects and to demonstrate social ticipate in various projects in the region. The projects commitment through volunteer work and team building are offered by the Corporate Citizenship department activities. In keeping with the “Global Strategy, Local in cooperation with the association “tatkräftig – Hände Implementation” approach, the regional companies für Hamburg.” With “1 day, 1 team, 1 goal” as its motto, independently select the projects to which they would the organization connects volunteer helpers with over like to commit themselves. The Corporate Citizenship 150 institutions in the Hamburg area. As an alternative, department provides advice as needed on suitable employees can choose their own initiatives to sup52 tesa Sustainability Report 2019 SOCIAL COMMITMENT AND INVOLVEMENT – tesa helps: Being There for Others as a Good Neighbor | tesa donates: U ­ ncomplicated Help for S ­ ocial Projects JAPAN port in the neighborhood following consultation. For ­trainees from the tesa plant Hamburg, participation in a “tesa helps” project with “tatkräftig” has now become an integral part of the first apprenticeship year. In the year under review, 38 employees supported four projects in all, including play and craft activities or gardening, handicraft, and renovation work at social and charitable institutions, such as children’s and youth facilities, day care centers, and refugee centers. Worldwide Commitment and Involvement The affiliates worldwide also provided active assistance in the areas around their sites in 2019. This includes Long-term the charitable participation of employees in games and crafts afternoons or excursions with at times seriously Commitment ill children, but also renovation work in schools and ­kindergartens. For example, the colleagues from BelIn collaboration with gium support the organization “D’Broej,” which operates the “Osaka Child Welfare youth facilities in Brussels. There, disadvantaged chil­Association,” tesa tape dren and youth are offered help with homework, time Japan is supporting dis­­ad­ and space for personal development, but also sports vantaged young adults. and other leisure activities. The colleagues accompanied the team from D’Broej to the carnival in Etterbeek In Japan approximately 45,000 (Brussels), in which the organization participates every children live in foster homes. year, and helped with decorating and dressing up the When they turn 18, they have to children in costumes and painting their faces. In addileave these homes. They often tion, they donated 5,000 euros. find everyday life very challenging due to not having been raised by their parents. Here is tesa donates: where the Osaka Child Welfare Association comes into play. ­Uncomplicated Help for It helps young adults achieve ­Social Projects independence through various programs and workshops. For As part of “tesa donates,” we make targeted monetary example, they address table and product donations to support people and the daymanners, personal appearance, to-day work of selected institutions. We provide tesa or the topics of finance and law. products for various purposes and groups, from schools and childcare centers to campaigns to provide aid to vicFor seven years now, the col­ tims of natural disasters and other emergencies, when leagues from tesa tape Japan items like fly screens and packing tape can be useful. have brought additional joy to The financial support primarily benefits organizations the young adults at Christmas that care for disadvantaged or ill children. by distributing gifts at the work­ shops. In February 2019, the Donation for “Die Kleinen Riesen Norderstedt e. V.” team was honored by the mayor In 2019 the annual leftover change donation benefited of Osaka for its commitment. “Die Kleinen Riesen Norderstedt e. V.,” which offers tesa Sustainability Report 2019 SOCIAL COMMITMENT AND INVOLVEMENT – tesa donates: ­Uncomplicated Help 53 for ­Social Projects support for children living in families with addiction issues. Its goal is to provide the affected with appropriate conflict and problem solution strategies and to help them in everyday crisis situations. The leftover change donation is based on a simple principle: On a monthly basis, employees at the Norderstedt, Hamburg and Langenfeld sites donate the cent amount from their net salary (0.01 to 0.99 euros), therefore a maximum of 11.88 euros per employee per year, to nonprofit organizations in their communities. In 2019 donations totaled­ 4,275.15 euros. The amount was matched by the executive management, for a total of 8,550.30 euros. Christmas Gift Campaign tesa organized a Christmas gift campaign again in the reporting year. tesa staff placed a total of 204 new gifts under the Christmas tree at the company headquarters for children who would otherwise not receive anything. Employees of ToysCompany, a nonprofit partner organization, then distributed them to socially disadvantaged families in time for the holiday. At various sites worldwide we also support organizations caring for disadvantaged children with financial and in-kind donations. “Kultur im Betrieb tut Gut(es)” Since September 2019, the series of events “Kultur im Betrieb,” which has existed at tesa in cooperation with the parent company Beiersdorf since 2015, has a new At the film technical center at headquarters, the students learn name: Kultur im Betrieb tut Gut(es). The name says it all: what is important for film production and can try out production themselves. All the entrance fees are now donated to fixed, charitable social partners, which assist people in need in the Hanseatic city. In addition, the respective partner organization has the opportunity to introduce itself during the event and to collect donations during the break. 8,550.30 euros was the total amount of the leftover change donation in 2019. 54 tesa Sustainability Report 2019 SOCIAL COMMITMENT AND INVOLVEMENT – tesa supports: Recruiting the Next Generation of E ­ mployees For the last eleven years, the Suzhou tesa plant has been involved in improving the elementary school education of the children of migrant workers. tesa supports: Recruiting NAT initiatives: “mint:pink,” a support program to prothe Next Generation of mote girls’ participation in STEM, and “90 Minutes of STEM.” Both are trial courses, in which the students can ­Employees become familiar with the work of scientists. In 2019, two STEM days were held at tesa: tesa employees from From digitalization to climate change and energy issues, engineering as well as research & development gave STEM skills (science, technology, engineering, maththe schoolchildren insights into their career and scope ematics) help to solve present-day challenges and are of responsibilities at tesa, let the students perform small important for preserving livelihoods and for social proexperiments and answered their questions. In addition, gress. As a technology company, tesa would like to tesa has supported both programs again in the form of a support young people in these subjects and in the promajor annual donation. cess recruit qualified up-and-coming talent. Therefore, together with various initiatives we support educational Educational Projects Worldwide projects that open up future prospects for young people Support for education also plays an important role in these areas. Specific projects and cooperative agreeat international sites. For example, the tesa plant in ments in Germany and in numerous international affiliSuzhou, China, has been involved in the “tesa Sunshine ates are associated with this. Education Assistance” program since 2008, which aims to improve the elementary school education of the chilInitiative Naturwissenschaft & Technik dren of migrant workers. More than 100 employees tesa SE in Germany has been partnering with Initiahave volunteered for this initiative in recent years. A tive Naturwissenschaft & Technik (Science & Technoltotal of 710 children have already received an annual ogy Initiative – abbreviated NAT) already since 2014. scholarship (“tesa Sunshine Scholarship”). In 2019 the In Hamburg and the surrounding metropolitan area, plant expanded its commitment to a second school. In NAT connects schools with universities, colleges and India, tesa supports the “Nanhi Kali” organization, which technology-driven companies. The objective is to give enables disadvantaged young girls to obtain an elemenyoung people a variety of insights into various occutary school education. pational fields. We provide particular support for two tesa Sustainability Report 2019 SOCIAL COMMITMENT AND INVOLVEMENT – tesa protects: Working to Protect 55 the Environment CHINA tesa protects: Working to Protect the Environment Environmental protection is part of tesa’s corporate philosophy. We augment our activities at the production and product level with specific projects that help preserve nature and improve the quality of life in our regions. Cooperation with the Environmental Center In 2019, we began to cooperate with the Hamburg environmental center Gut Karlshöhe. The center has been operated by the Hamburg Climate Foundation since 2008 and is a place for learning about and experiencing nature. People from the Hamburg metropolitan area Education can learn here in conferences, workshops, exhibitions equals future or markets how life can succeed in terms of natural resources. The grounds are located near tesa’s comSince 2008 the production pany headquarters in Norderstedt and offer various facility supports the nearby uncultivated areas that must be cared for and mainSuzhou Sunshine School, tained. This opens the opportunity for charitable activiparticularly with the granting ties that can be combined with environmental education of scholarships. and food for thought for a more sustainable lifestyle. In 2019, an initial pilot project was conducted in order to In 2019, the tesa plant in Suzhou determine whether the cooperation would capture the decided to provide long-term interest of tesa employees. Since the response was support to several students at positive, we have decided to continue the cooperation: a local school and to provide In fall 2019, another voluntary activity occurred at Gut financial assistance at least up Karlshöhe. A total of nearly 20 employees have particito middle school. The children pated in both projects. come from particularly challenging circumstances and could The Million Tree Project not continue their education tesa staff in China have been working to protect the without the scholarships since environment since 2015 by supporting the “Million Tree their families cannot afford the Project” – a tree-planting campaign in Inner Mongoschool fees. In addition, tesa lia. In 2019, six tesa employees participated in the proemployees would like to supject. They trimmed older trees and planted new ones. port the children on a personal  insights.tesa.com level by planning excursions, for example to the robotics museum, that enable the chil­ dren to experience and explore things they would otherwise be denied. For more information please see:  insights.tesa.com Publisher tesa SE Hugo-Kirchberg-Strasse 1 22848 Norderstedt Germany Contact tesa SE Corporate Communications Tel.: +49 (0) 40 888 99 0 responsibility@tesa.com www.tesa.com/responsibility www.tesa.com Collaboration Text tesa SE Text and layout Stakeholder Reporting GmbH, Hamburg Translation EnglishBusiness AG, Hamburg
