Sustainability Repor t 2020 Contents Ⅰ Sustainability Management at the Norinchukin Bank Ⅱ New Initiatives from Fiscal 2020 Ⅲ Past Initiatives and Results 01 Norinchukin Bank Sustainability Report 2020 Contents Ⅰ Sustainability Management at the Norinchukin Bank Sustainability Report 2020 Editorial Policy We publish a sustainability report annually to provide 02 Message from the CEO information related to sustainability at Norinchukin Bank. 04 Norinchukin Bank Overview We reference the GRI standard in the production of our sustainability reports. 05 Medium-Term Management Plan and Three Priority Business Strategies 06 Overall View of Sustainability Management Reporting Period 08 Identifying Sustainability Issues Fiscal 2019 (April 2019 to March 2020) Certain information includes details as of June 2020. 09 Sustainability Promotion Structure 10 Participation in Initiatives Prior Publication 11 Dialogue with Experts June 2019 Ⅱ New Initiatives from Fiscal 2020 Report Scope The Norinchukin Bank and group companies 15 Key Initiatives for Achieving Sustainability Management 16 Sustainability Issues Surrounding the Agriculture, Fishery, and Forestry Industries 17 Solving Environmental and Social Issues Through Sustainable Finance Related Information 18 Initiatives to Turn Solutions for Environmental and Social Issues Into Business Opportunities We also publish information related to sustainability on our corporate website. The links provided lead to 21 Initiatives to Manage Environmental and Social Risks webpages with supplemental information. 22 Contribution to Climate Change Mitigation and Adaption 24 Restoring a Healthy Circulation of Forest and Forest Industry and Providing Full Support for Wood Utilization Initiative The Norinchukin Bank corporate Web site; http://www.nochubank.or.jp/en/ 26 [Reference] Declaring the Initiatives of the JA Group 27 Column Initiatives Against COVID-19 The Norinchukin Bank sustainability Web site; https://www.nochubank.or.jp/en/about/sustainability/ Ⅲ Past Initiatives and Results 28 Focus Area 1: Creating positive impact on the agriculture, fishery and forestry industries, food and local communities 34 Focus Area 2: Promoting Responsible Finance food and local communities 38 Focus Area 3: Promoting sustainability management Contact regarding this Sustainability Report: 41 Focus Area 4: Securing Highly Capable Human Resources The Norinchukin Bank Sustainability Management 50 Focus Area 5: Maintain Customer Trust as a Financial Institution Department Corporate Planning Division 55 GRI Guideline Comparison Table 13-2, Yurakucho 1-chome, Chiyoda-ku, Tokyo 58 From the Experts/ Responding to the Experts 100-8420, Japan Norinchukin Bank Sustainability Report 2020 Contents Ⅰ Sustainability Management at the Norinchukin Bank Ⅱ New Initiatives from Fiscal 2020 Ⅲ Past Initiatives and Results 02 Message from the CEO Practicing Sustainability Management Unique to Norinchukin Supporting the Development of Agriculture, Fishery 2020. We have learned once again how important it is that and Forestry Industries in Times of Change companies and society be resilient to pandemics. This is a development prompting us to review not only our businesses, The Norinchukin Bank is a member of cooperative organizations but also our lifestyles in working toward a sustainable society. that support agriculture, fishery and forestry industries. We These and other rapidly advancing global-scale issues threaten provide financial services to members that include Japan to rattle the very foundations of our business: food shortages Agricultural Cooperatives (JA), Japan Fisheries Cooperatives due to global population growth, labor shortages due to (JF), and Japan Forest Owners’ Cooperatives (JForest). In so declining birthrates, aging populations in advanced nations, doing, we contribute to the development of agriculture, forestry and the loss of biodiversity. The Paris Agreement, the UN and fisheries, while also contributing to national economic Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs), and other initiatives for prosperity. social sustainability give rise each passing year to expectations This social duty, which is defined under Article 1 of the for companies to resolve social issues. We recognize the need Norinchukin Bank Act, is a unique mission that no officer or for us to conduct our businesses in ways that reflect society’s employee at Norinchukin can forget, no matter what role we expectations and demands. serve. To fulfill this duty, we engage in various activities and At the same time, Japan's agriculture, fishery and forestry underlying corporate functions within our Food and Agriculture industries, which form the foundation of our business, are Business, our Retail Business, and our Investment Business. irreplaceable industries that produce life-nurturing food. These industries also offer the potential for regional revitalization, Looking at fiscal 2019, we saw a year of increasing natural land conservation, and more. From an alternative perspective, disasters, said to be caused by climate change. these industries may be the most susceptible to climate change While other nations experienced large-scale forest fires and and other issues related to the natural environment. Also, other major disasters, Japan's agriculture, fishery and forestry agriculture, fishery and forestry industries themselves burden industries also suffered severe damage from large typhoons. the environment through greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions and At COP25 (the 25th Conference of the Parties to the United other factors. Nations Framework Convention on Climate Change) held in In Japan, these industries contribute significantly to the December 2019, as well as at the Davos conference (Annual environment through eco-friendly agricultural initiatives, Assembly of the World Economic Forum) held in January 2020, resource-managed fisheries, and multi-function forests, I was impressed that the world had come to an agreement on accomplished through thinning and reforestation. Recognizing the urgency of addressing climate change and environmental the present situation and issues clearly, we believe it is issues. I was also moved by the young people around the world necessary for us to be proactive in leveraging our businesses to who are taking powerful action for the future of the Earth. take on GHG emissions reductions and other global-level issues. We are acutely aware of the severe impact of COVID-19 on We feel strongly that we must probe more deeply into how President and Chief Executive Officer, the Norinchukin Bank economic and social systems. These circumstances have had Norinchukin can show purpose in helping create a sustainable Kazuto Oku grave repercussions around the world since the beginning of society through our business activities. Norinchukin Bank Sustainability Report 2020 Contents Ⅰ Sustainability Management at the Norinchukin Bank Ⅱ New Initiatives from Fiscal 2020 Ⅲ Past Initiatives and Results 03 Message from the CEO A Constant Search for the Meaning of the Norinchukin In 2019, the Norinchukin Bank identified five focus areas Bank and an Evolution in Our Businesses and 14 topics related to sustainability. We then established sustainable Medium-Term goals for each of these issues. To As the world places more emphasis on sustainability, the clearly communicate the basis of our business activities and intersection between corporate value and outside perception is the actions of our officers and employees, we formulated undergoing dramatic change. environmental and human rights policies. We also declared Traditional values treated environmental sustainability, the our support for the Task Force on Climate-Related Financial purpose of a company, corporate profits as independent Disclosures. factors. However, the SDGs and the Paris Agreement have We have set these goals as group-wide goals to pursue during become a catalyst for the spread of a new value system. Under fiscal 2020. We are committed to work as a unified group to this value system, sustainability and purpose are prerequisites strengthen our framework for sustainability management. for profits. We believe that achieving these values will lead to As this is the first year of sustainability management at the sustainability management. Norinchukin Bank Group, we will strive to ensure our unique To exercise sustainability management, we continue to ask perspective on sustainability takes root in the daily tasks of our The Philosophy Behind Our Corporate Logo ourselves the value that the Norinchukin Bank offers to society, officers and employees, embracing sustainability as a part of the demands of our stakeholders and society, and the unique our practices. businesses only we can provide. In this way, we clarify our purpose, using this clarity to discuss and evolve sustainability management at the Norinchukin Bank. The logo of the Norinchukin Bank represents a Japanese The Traditional Value System SDGs New Value System (Ideal Future) landscape with vibrant agriculture, fishery and forestry industries interconnected with many forms of life. The Sustainability, corporate purpose, and Sustainability and purpose are colors of the sea, land, and forest swirl together, showing corporate proﬁts treated separately prerequisites for proﬁts. our dedication to journey onward alongside the breath of the life. Our businesses exist in harmony with the life that comes Sustainability Proﬁts Purpose Rapid, from the activities of agriculture, fishery and forestry (Environmental/ (Financing) (Signiﬁcance) irreversible changes industries and the cycles of nature. Social) As we carry out our businesses that are rooted deeply in Purpose our local communities, we work to resolve environmental (Signiﬁcance) and social issues and contribute to sustainable agriculture, Proﬁts fishery and forestry industries. (Financing) Sustainability This is the traditional role of the Norinchukin Bank, and (Environmental/ we will strive to make an even greater contribution in the COP21 Social) future. Paris Agreement Norinchukin Bank Sustainability Report 2020 Contents Ⅰ Sustainability Management at the Norinchukin Bank Ⅱ New Initiatives from Fiscal 2020 Ⅲ Past Initiatives and Results 04 Medium-Term Management Plan and Sustainability Management Norinchukin Bank Overview The Basic Mission of the Norinchukin Bank Structure of the Norinchukin Bank Our mission at the Norinchukin Bank is to support the Cooperative Municipal Prefectural National agriculture, fishery and forestry industries as a national-level Businesses Members Level Level Level organization for JA Bank, JF Marine Bank, and the JForest Group. Our mission is also to contribute to food development and JA Group JA Zen-Noh (National Federation community lifestyles for all people living in Japan. of Agricultural Financing Cooperative Further, as a leading Japanese institutional investor, securing JA Keizairen Associations) stable income through global investment activities is an (Prefectural Economic Federation of important activity in the fulfillment of our mission. Agricultural Cooperatives) In our commitment to sustaining all life, we are firm in pursuing our mission, being unafraid of change and taking on any Agriculture challenges to come. The Cooperative JA Farmers (Japan Agricultural Norinchukin JA Bank Banking Cooperatives) Bank JA Shinnoren Name (Prefectural Banking Federation of The Norinchukin Bank Agricultural Cooperatives) Legal Basis Norinchukin Bank Act (Act No. 93 of 2001) Date of Establishment Mutual JA Zenkyoren (National Mutual Insurance Federation of December 20, 1923 Insurance Agricultural Cooperatives) President and Chief Executive Officer Kazuto Oku Representation, JA Chuokai JA Zenchu Paid-in Capital Coordination, (Prefectural Central (Central Union of Union of Agricultural Agricultural ¥4,040.1 billion (as of March 31, 2020) Consultation Cooperatives) Cooperatives) *Investment is accepted from members and preferred investors. Total Assets (Consolidated Basis) JF Gyoren JF Zengyoren ¥105,482.0 billion (as of March 31, 2020) Guidance, (Prefectural Federation (National Federation JF Group Members Financing of Fisheries of Fisheries Co-operative Associations) Co-operative Associations) 3,477 organizations (as of March 31, 2020) Member organizations include, of Japan Agricultural JF Shingyoren The Fisheries Cooperatives (JA), Japan Fishery Cooperatives (JF), Japan Cooperative JF (Prefectural Bankin Fishers (Japan Fishery Norinchukin JF Marine Bank Forest Owners' Cooperatives (JForest), related federations, and Banking Cooperatives) Federation of Fisheries Bank Co-operative Associations) other agriculture, fishery and forestry cooperative organizations which have invested in the Norinchukin Bank. Number of Employees Mutual JF Kyosuiren 3,645 (as of March 31, 2020) (National Mutual Insurance Federation of Insurance Fishery Co-operative Associations) Business Locations 26 Forestry Head office, 19 branches in Japan, 1 branch annex, Forest JForest JForest Moriren JForest Zenmoriren Guidance, 3 overseas branches, 2 overseas representative offices (Japan Forest Ownersʼ (Prefectural Federation of (National Federation of Financing Landholders Cooperatives) Forestry Cooperatives) Forestry Cooperatives) (as of March 31, 2020) Norinchukin Bank Sustainability Report 2020 Contents Ⅰ Sustainability Management at the Norinchukin Bank Ⅱ New Initiatives from Fiscal 2020 Ⅲ Past Initiatives and Results 05 Medium-Term Management Plan and Sustainability Management Medium-Term Management Plan and Three Priority Business Strategies Under our Medium-Term management plan (FY2019-2023) the Norinchukin Bank pursues business and organizational management to become a Leading Bank that Supports the Agriculture, Fishery and Forestry Industries, Food Production and Consumption, and the Daily Lives of Local Communities. Our Medium-Term management plan assumes disruptive change over the next 10 years, and targets self-reform of our organization to meet customer expectations and create value. We aim to contribute to sustainability-oriented management through our Food and Agriculture Business, Retail Business, and Investment Business, as well through the corporate functions that support these businesses. In so doing, we facilitate environmental and social sustainability upon which our business is founded. Medium-Term Management Plan (FY2019-2023) Three Priority Business Strategies Our Vision Medium-Term Management Plan (FY2019-2023) A leading bank supporting Enhance the Food and the agriculture, fishery Agriculture value chain Basic Policy and forestry industries, Food and food production and Agriculture Demonstrate true, customer-oriented business value consumption, Business Lead the agriculture, fishery and forestry industries and the daily lives of local Become the leading agriculture Engage in forward-looking business transformation Engage in proactive digital innovation communities and food bank in Asia Engage in forward-looking business transformation Establish a sustainable financial base Establish a sustainable financial base Reinforce the lending business/ Digital innovation Develop life-plan support business Basic Policy Retail Business Rebuild the point of contact with members and customers Medium-Term Management Plan Catching the winds of change to create new value Increase portfolio resiliency to economic cycles Beginning in 1923 Investment Business We have supported agriculture, fishery and forestry industries industries Enhance fundamental profitability as a national-level financial institution Era of Disruptive Changes based on cooperatives related to those industries Norinchukin Bank Sustainability Report 2020 Contents Ⅰ Sustainability Management at the Norinchukin Bank Ⅱ New Initiatives from Fiscal 2020 Ⅲ Past Initiatives and Results 06 Medium-Term Management Plan and Sustainability Management Overall View of Sustainability Management Climate change, which increases in severity every year, and other environmental and social issues are universal and Brand Statement unavoidable. Disruptive change both in Japan and overseas has brought us to a major turning point in history. We must create Our work at The Norinchukin Bank won't change the world overnight value with a view to future changes, rather than as an extension of the past. Our focus is on the agriculture, fishery and forestry industries. In addition, nations and corporate entities are making efforts This means that nature is our partner, and nothing in nature bears fruit overnight toward the sustainable development of society, including the —they produce and nurture life as a legacy for future generations. United Nations Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs) and the Paris Agreement, which is a new framework for climate change. This is precisely why we are dedicated to serving those who sustain these industries Given these changes, we recognize that the roles expected of and their local communities, no matter how small the scale of their operations. companies are changing rapidly. As the financial institution wholly devoted to this sector For a company to carry out sustainable business activities —the very cornerstone of our nation, we strive consistently today, businesses must contribute to a sustainable environment to generate solid outcomes in the global financial markets. and society, which represent the foundation of an entity’s operations. This is called sustainability-oriented management. Our history spans more than 90 years. The Norinchukin Bank brand statement is dedicated to sustaining all life. But that alone is no longer enough. Group Companies Subject to Looking to our origins as a financial institution based on We must take on a greater role than ever before Medium-Term Sustainability Goals agriculture, fishery and forestry cooperatives, Norinchukin Bank if this sector is to continue developing in response to the changing times. ● Norinchukin Trust & Banking Co., Ltd. strives to address sustainability issues important to us and our We must harness our financial knowledge to make ● Norinchukin Australia Pty Limited major stakeholders. Here, we aim to improve environmental new contributions that extend beyond our past functions and scope. ● Norinchukin Bank Europe N.V. and social sustainability, as well as the sustainability of our We must do our utmost to address on-the-ground issues. ● Norinchukin Research Institute Co., Ltd. businesses. We must respond to the needs not only of producers, ● Norinchukin Facilities Co., Ltd. In fiscal 2020, we will define the Norinchukin Bank Medium-Term but also to those of processors, distributors and consumers. ● Nochu Business Support Co., Ltd. sustainability goals as Medium-Term sustainability goals for the ● Norinchukin Business Assist Co., Ltd. all group companies (listed at right). Each group company will The life generated by the agriculture, fishery and forestry industries ● Norinchukin Academy Co., Ltd. consider measures and take action to achieve these goals. sprouts the workings of all life well into the future. ● Norinchukin Value Investments Co., Ltd. ● Kyodo Housing Loan Co., Ltd. Now is the time for each and every one of us to give our all. ● Nochu Information System Co., Ltd. We aim to make the chain of life that connects us to the future ● JA Card Co., Ltd. more bounteous and more certain. ●N orinchukin Zenkyoren Asset Management Co., Ltd. Dedicated to sustaining all life. ● Cooperative Servicing Co., Ltd. ●A gribusiness Investment & Consultation The Norinchukin Bank Co., Ltd. Norinchukin Bank Sustainability Report 2020 Contents Ⅰ Sustainability Management at the Norinchukin Bank Ⅱ New Initiatives from Fiscal 2020 Ⅲ Past Initiatives and Results 07 Medium-Term Management Plan and Sustainability Management Philosophies and Policies Supporting Sustainability Environmental Policy and Human Rights Policy: Management Two Unique Traits In our Code of Ethics, we stipulate that, We, as members of 1) Defines the Norinchukin Bank basic mission society, work closely with local communities, to support them Our mission is to contribute to economic development through the development of the agriculture, fishery, and forestry industries, with respect to the human rights of each person and with industries that are linked closely to the environment. We also strive to help the people engaged in these industries enjoy greater social issues such as an environmental issue, and we seek to happiness. In accordance with the principle and spirit of mutual aid embraced by cooperatives, the Norinchukin Bank respects human contribute to the realization of sustainable society. rights and dignity rooted in equality and aims to create a fair society. Code of Ethics (Excerpt) 2) Emphasizes fostering a sound corporate culture We believe that fostering and establishing a sound corporate culture is an integral part of implementing both policies. While 1. Fundamental Mission and Social Responsibility responding appropriately to human rights issues, we work to maintain an awareness of the risks and returns related to our business 2. Offering High-Quality Services activities, encourage individual employees to act with awareness of their own responsibilities while ensuring transparency, and create 3. Strict Compliance with Laws and Regulations attractive workplaces that offer unrestricted and open-minded discussion and respect for diverse opinions. 4. S  evering Anti-Social Forces and Combating the Threat of Terrorism 5. Building Highly Transparent Organizational Culture Environmental Policy: Key Points Human Rights Policy: Key Points 6. Contribution to Sustainable Society 1) R  eflecting on our basic mission, we declare that we will contribute 1) R  eflecting on our basic mission, we declare that we will contribute to the creation of a sustainable society through partnership and to the creation of a sustainable society through partnership and To realize sustainability management, we have established the collaboration with fellow members collaboration with fellow members Environmental Policy and Human Rights Policy as of November 2019. These policies serve to advance concrete initiatives in our 2) W e declare our support and participation in international businesses and in the behavior of our directors and employees as standards and initiatives*1 to address environmental issues 2) W e declare our support and respect for international standards we clarify our fundamental position on resolving environmental and initiatives*3 to address human rights issues issues and respecting human rights, and as we foster and unify 3) W  e implement concrete initiatives based on the Environmental awareness among the same. Policy through our core financing and lending business 3) W  e declare our respect for human rights across the entire value chain (directors, employees, customers, and suppliers) in Code of Ethics 4) W  e declare that, as a financial institution founded on the accordance with the concepts of the UN Guiding Principles on Code of Conduct for Directors and Employees agriculture, fishery and forestry industries, climate change*2 and Business and Human Rights (Ruggie Principles) biodiversity are particularly important environmental issues, and that we will respond to these issues through our business activities 4) W e declare that we shall strive to respond to human rights Environmental Policy Human Rights Policy 5) W  e declare that we shall strive to respond to environmental issues as an element tied closely to our ability to foster a sound issues as an element tied closely to our ability to foster a sound corporate culture, the backbone of our operations corporate culture, the backbone of our operations *3 Universal Declaration of Human Rights, International Covenant on Economic, *1 United Nations Global Compact, Equator Principles, CDP, Principles for Financial Social and Cultural Rights, International Covenant on Civil and Political Rights, ILO Basic Policy for Investment and Loans Action for the 21st Century, & TCFD Declaration on Fundamental Principles and Rights at Work, UN Guiding Principles on *2 Refers to supporting TCFD recommendations and advancing initiatives going forward Business and Human Rights, UN Global Compact, OECD Guidelines for Multinational based on the purpose of said recommendations Enterprises Norinchukin Bank Sustainability Report 2020 Contents Ⅰ Sustainability Management at the Norinchukin Bank Ⅱ New Initiatives from Fiscal 2020 Ⅲ Past Initiatives and Results 08 Medium-Term Management Plan and Sustainability Management Identifying Sustainability Issues Developing a Future Outlook, Define business models Norinchukin Bank Sustainability Topics (Five Focus Areas and 14 Topics) Formulating a Five-Year Plan Conduct interviews within each division Focus Area 1: C  reate a positive impact on the agriculture, fishery and forestry industries, food, and Based on perspectives required by stakeholders and local communities Identify stakeholders perspectives on important issues for the Norinchukin Bank, we Topic 1-1: Contribute to sustainable agriculture, fishery and forestry have established five focus areas and 14 topics. Identify important stakeholders industries P28 We considered the four points below in choosing these topics, (members, local communities, employees, customers, others) Topic 1-2: Contribute to a safe and secure food supply formulating the process as seen in the diagram to the right. Topic 1-3: Contribute to sustainable local communities Create a list of issues Topic 1-4: Conserve the natural environment as a foundation of the agriculture, fishery and forestry industries Points for Consideration Formulate a Sustainability Issue Universe Topic 1-5: Create business innovation (based on ISO26000/GRI/SDGs) 1) B  e mindful of measures to address sustainabilityrelated issues Select material issues 2) Incorporate input from our stakeholders from all issues listed Focus Area 2: Promote responsible finance 3) C  onsider the various perspectives related to sustainability (e.g. the SDGs) Interview stakeholders Topic 2-1: Promote sustainable finance P34 Organizations subject to interview: Affiliated Conduct in-house Topic 2-2: Contribute to sustainable energy utilization 4) B  ase our approach on our Medium-Term national-level federations (in agriculture, interviews fishery, forestry industries), business partners Topic 2-3: Realize financing for everybody management plan (FY2019-2023) (agricultural-related companies), We will continue to review issues as appropriate in light of social trends. Identify material issues Identify material issues Focus Area 3: Promote sustainability management for stakeholders for the Norinchukin Bank Topic 3-1: Ensure a transparent organizational governing structure P38 Topic 3-2: Reinforce the management of environmental and social risks Create an issue map Topic 3-3: Reinforce stakeholder engagement Materiality from the perspective of our stakeholders Focus Area 4: Secure highly capable human resources P41 Materiality from the perspective of the Norinchukin Bank Topic 4-1: Improve diversity and equal opportunities Topic 4-2: Enhance human resources development Identify material issues for both the Norinchukin Bank and our stakeholders (shaded portion of the diagram above) Focus Area 5: M  aintain customer trust as a financial institution P50 Establish five focus areas and 14 topics Topic 5-1: Further reinforce our compliance framework Norinchukin Bank Sustainability Report 2020 Contents Ⅰ Sustainability Management at the Norinchukin Bank Ⅱ New Initiatives from Fiscal 2020 Ⅲ Past Initiatives and Results 09 Medium-Term Management Plan and Sustainability Management Sustainability Promotion Structure The Sustainability Committee and CFT We have established the Sustainability Committee under the board of directors to achieve sustainability-oriented management. The Sustainability Committee discusses and deliberates a variety of topics, such as the direction of sustainability-oriented management and overall planning. In 2019, we launched the Cross-Functional Team (CFT) to explore sustainability-oriented management across our entire organization and to create synergistic effects within each division. The CFT is headed by directors in charge of business administration and risk management. CFT members come from a variety of divisions gathered together for cross-division discussions to formulate specific plans, and to develop stances related to sustainability. In fiscal 2019, we held seven meetings of the Sustainability Committee and eleven meetings of the CFT. Diagram: Sustainability Promotion Structure Diagram: CFT Structure Responsible Manager: Director in charge of business administration / Members director in charge of risk management Leader: General Manager, Corporate Planning Division Council of Delegates Audit & Supervisory Secretariat: Sustainability Management Department Board Members / Audit & Supervisory Board Food & Agri HQ/Retail HQ/Global Investments HQ/Corporate Supervisory Committee Board of Directors Status of Sustainability Management CFT Meetings Key Details Various Committees Sustainability Committee Various Committees CFT kickoff, reviewed status of various policies (e.g. for formulation of Environmental Mar 2019 Policy, Human Rights Policy) Review of various policies (e.g. status of initiatives for TCFD disclosure, reviewed status for Apr 2019 ESG investment/loans) Status of Sustainability Committee Meetings Review of various policies (e.g. review status for formulation of Environmental Policy, May 2019 Human Rights Policy, sector policy) Key Details Toward policy formulation for fiscal 2020 (brainstorming sustainable policy ideas, exchange May 2019 Apr 2019 External call for sustainability management of opinions) Jul 2019 Same as above (position/direction for formulating management plan) Jun 2019 Sustainability Report 2019 content Jul 2019 Same as above (reconfirming direction after sharing committee discussions, Q1 initiatives) Jul 2019 Position on planning for a sustainable fiscal 2020 Toward policy formulation for fiscal 2020 (first draft reports from business headquarters) Sep 2019 Establishment of Environmental Policy, Human Rights Policy (for November external release) Sep 2019 Established Environmental Policy, Human Rights Policy Expanded sustainability management to Group companies Fiscal 2020 plan review status Oct 2019 Toward policy formulation for fiscal 2020 (discussion based on first drafts) Oct 2019 Expanded sustainability management to Group companies Oct 2019 Same as above (discussion for policy determination, policy budget) Mar 2020 Awareness of the state of sustainability management, future action policies Dec 2019 Status of preparation for fiscal 2020 policies (e.g. direction for implementation of various policies) Awareness of state of sustainability management, future action policies Mar 2020 Policy for issuance of Sustainability Report 2020 Mar 2020 Policy for issuance of Sustainability Report 2020 Norinchukin Bank Sustainability Report 2020 Contents Ⅰ Sustainability Management at the Norinchukin Bank Ⅱ New Initiatives from Fiscal 2020 Ⅲ Past Initiatives and Results 10 Medium-Term Management Plan and Sustainability Management Participation in Initiatives United Nations Global Compact Equator Principles Developing a Future Outlook, Formulating a Five-Year Plan The United Nations Global Compact is a voluntary initiative The Equator Principles is an international risk management whereby signatory companies and organizations act as framework adopted voluntarily by financial institutions for The TCFD was established in December 2015 by the Financial upstanding members of society by demonstrating responsible assessing and managing environmental and social risks in Stability Board (FSB). We adopted the TCFD's recommendations and creative leadership, participating in the creation of a global project finance and other areas. We adopted the Equator in April 2019. Going forward, we will address the impact and framework for achieving sustainable growth. We signed the Principles in May 2017. risks of climate change on our business and work to expand our Global Compact in November 2016. initiatives and disclosures. CDP Principles for Financial Action for the 21st Century Japan Climate Initiative The CDP is an NGO that conducts international activities. The Principles for Financial Action for the 21st Century were The Japan Climate Initiative is a network to strengthen In response to requests from institutional investors, the CDP adopted in October 2011 as action guidelines for financial information dissemination and exchange of opinions among sends major international corporations a questionnaire related institutions that aim to establish a sustainable society. companies, local governments, NGOs, and other actors that to climate change, water resources, forests, and commodities. We became a signatory to the Principles in March 2012. are actively engaged in taking climate action in Japan. We The CDP then analyzes, evaluates, and discloses the At the General Assembly in fiscal 2015, our Nochu Potential announced our membership to the Initiatives in April 2019. responses, thereby exerting significant influence on global ESG Forest Productivity Fund was selected as a preferred project of investments. We signed on to the CDP in the year. March 2017. Norinchukin Zenkyoren Asset Management Co., Ltd. Signs PRI In March 2020, Norinchukin Zenkyoren Asset Management Co., Ltd. became a signatory to the United Nations Principles for Responsible Investment, in agreement with their fundamental concepts. Going forward, we will continue to study and implement initiatives tackling ESG issues in keeping with our fiduciary duty. In so doing, we will fulfill our social responsibilities and strive to further enhance our activities. Norinchukin Bank Sustainability Report 2020 Contents Ⅰ Sustainability Management at the Norinchukin Bank Ⅱ New Initiatives from Fiscal 2020 Ⅲ Past Initiatives and Results 11 Medium-Term Management Plan and Sustainability Management Dialogue with Experts Expert Lecture #1 Mr. Takejiro Sueyoshi After graduating from the University of Tokyo, Mr. Sueyoshi joined Mitsubishi Bank. Having served as vice president at Nikko Asset Management, Sueyoshi was appointed as a special advisor to UNEP FI. Today, he serves as vice chair of the Executive Board of the Japan Renewable Energy Foundation, Chairman of CDP Japan, Chairman of WWF Japan, and Representative of the Japan Climate Initiative. To reach higher levels of sustainability-oriented management, the Norinchukin Bank The State of Global Sustainability engages in dialogue with experts. In March 2020, three experts joined with our president and CEO and other directors for Today, I want to emphasize that the world stage has changed. In particular, the issue of climate change has come to be regarded as a crisis, and the resulting sense of urgency a dialogue. They engaged in multifaceted discussions, including perspectives such as has raised the level of global action. The world has come together to seek carbondomestic and overseas sustainability trends and expectations of the Norinchukin Bank. free, net-zero societies through a low-carbon mindset, reducing greenhouse gases. We will utilize the knowledge gained from this dialogue in steadily advancing our Failing to recognize this shift in gears will result in being left behind by the world. As an sustainability management. example, business leaders around the world who have emphasized profits in the past are now under pressure from their stakeholders to devise policies in consideration of sustainability. In the financial world, leading actors on Wall Street are also pivoting to ESG Participants investments. That world is entering a new era where the structure and flow of financing Sustainability Experts Norinchukin Bank Participants is changing fundamentally. Another emerging trend is the rise of young people who have begun to act under a new set of values. It will be important to build political, social, and Mr. Takejiro Sueyoshi Kazuto Oku Shigeo Miyachi Akiko Ito Special Advisor to UNEP FI (United President and Chief Executive Officer Audit & Supervisory Board Executive Officer and General Manager economic environments that meet their demands. We can see these new values on the Nations Environment Programme Tetsuya Kanamaru Yasuyuki Matsumoto Internal Audit Division Finance Initiative) Senior managing director Managing Executive Officer world's dinner tables, where meat substitutes derived from green peas are being served. (Representative Director) Satoshi Iwaso Yoshio Kimura Shozo Goto Managing Executive Officer Executive Officer and General In this way, the world is undergoing change, ready and determined to achieve a Ms. Maiko Kubo Senior managing director Seiki Todaka Manager Director, Environment Policy (Representative Director) JF Marine Bank Management Division sustainable society. This will be a major crossroads for those who can or cannot evolve Managing Executive Officer Keito Shimbu Koki Ogino Office, Ministry of Agriculture, Senior managing director Ryo Akiyoshi Executive Officer and General with these trends. I hope to see the Norinchukin Bank set goals for the long term, drawing Forestry and Fisheries Managing Executive Officer Manager (Representative Director) Shin Kawamoto Digital Innovation Division up a roadmap and pursuing targets for five and ten years in the future. Kazuhiko Otake Mr. Kenji Fuma Senior managing director Managing Executive Officer Yoshihiro Ito Executive Officer and General CEO, Neural Inc. (Representative Director) Hiroshi Yuda Manager Managing Executive Officer Hikaru Yoshida Financial Planning and Control Managing Director Masakazu Kita Division Managing Executive Officer Kei Fujisaki Managing Director Masanobu Yagi Kenji Kawashima Managing Executive Officer Kiyotsugu Akimoto General Manager Audit & Supervisory Board Satoshi Matsunaga Corporate Planning Division Managing Executive Officer (Moderator) Norinchukin Bank Sustainability Report 2020 Contents Ⅰ Sustainability Management at the Norinchukin Bank Ⅱ New Initiatives from Fiscal 2020 Ⅲ Past Initiatives and Results 12 Dialogue with Experts Expert Lecture #2 Expert Lecture #3 Ms. Maiko Kubo Mr. Kenji Fuma After graduating from the University of Tokyo, Ms. Kubo joined the Ministry of Agriculture, Forestry and Fisheries (MAFF). She was named to Master of Liberal Arts, Sustainability (Harvard her current position in April 2019 after serving as University); MBA (Thunderbird School of Global Deputy Director of the Environment and Biomass Management); BLA, International Relations Policy Division, Director of JETRO Paris, Deputy (University of Tokyo). Mr. Fuma founded Neural, an Director of the Export Promotion Division of the advisory company in sustainability management Food Industry Affairs Bureau, Deputy Director of and ESG investment, in 2013, where he currently the Japan Pavilion at Milan Expo, and Planning serves as CEO. Editor-in-chief of the Sustainable Officer of the Minister's Secretariat Policy Division. Japan news website. Sustainability in the Agriculture, Fishery and Forestry Industries Sustainability Initiatives Within Companies and Financial and Initiatives of the Ministry of Agriculture, Forestry and Fisheries Institutions Our primary mission is to leave behind an environment with safe food and a secure Though the Davos conference features a presentation on global risks every January, environment for future generations. The agriculture, fishery, forestry, and food industries climate change has already been the topic of the world's focus since 2011. For Japan, are wholly dependent on natural capital and are interdependent on each other. Therefore, 2011 is synonymous with the Great East Japan Earthquake. In Europe, it was the time of industry sustainability cannot be guaranteed without sustainability of natural capital. a major debt crisis. However, the year 2011 was also when we came to recognize climate One-quarter of the world's greenhouse gas emissions stem from agriculture, forestry, change as a risk. Despite uncertainty in the current economic outlook, I believe that and similar land use. The full-scale implementation of the Paris Agreement requires efforts to tackle climate change will continue in Europe. In Japan, labor shortages are a innovation in the fields of agriculture, fishery, and forestry. The Ministry of Agriculture, major issue. We cannot sustain agriculture without relying on foreign workers. The S of Forestry and Fisheries (MAFF) announced in January 2019 that the ministry aims to ESG includes human resources, and dealing with a labor shortages is a major issue. decarbonize Japan by 2050 through four key pillars: fully utilizing renewable energy, Around 2008, the world's leading companies began to establish sustainability divisions, reducing greenhouse gas emissions, sequestering and storing carbon, and making and though Japan has been behind in this trend, it is catching up. There are various trends international contributions. CO2 absorption through forestation and environmentally among Japanese companies, including a commitment to go carbon-neutral by 2050; such friendly agriculture is drawing greater attention worldwide. Therefore, we will continue to initiatives will likely continue into the future. promote initiatives in preparation. In response to these corporate trends, financial institutions are accelerating action Achieving the SDGs requires sustainable production and consumption of both food and to support efforts through sustainable finance. With the launch of the Principles for agricultural products. MAFF established the Study Group on Sustainable Production and Responsible Banking (PRB) in 2019, financial institutions are likely to make greater Consumption Forms in November 2019. In the future, we will pursue awareness-raising commitments in this area. In the future, there will be a greater demand for collaboration activities for sustainable consumption. between companies and financial institutions toward the achievement of a sustainable The Norinchukin Bank is influential in the agriculture, fishery and forestry industries, as world, including addressing climate change risks. Looking at agriculture today, we well as in the greater industrial world. I would like to see the bank use this influence to see that sustainability requires not only capital investment, but also technological support initiatives out in the field. I expect that the Norinchukin Bank will offer a wide development. My expectation is that Norinchukin Bank investment and lending for variety of support, including incorporating ESG perspectives into financing terms and sustainability in the agriculture, fishery and forestry industries will have a significant acceptance standards. I expect the bank to also use its nationwide network to connect meaning for the economy and society. the needs of investors with those working on the front lines. Norinchukin Bank Sustainability Report 2020 Contents Ⅰ Sustainability Management at the Norinchukin Bank Ⅱ New Initiatives from Fiscal 2020 Ⅲ Past Initiatives and Results 13 Dialogue with Experts Q&A the economy. I understand that changes in shareholder views influence changes in the awareness of business However, our understanding of the environment has changed significantly through the SDGs. Q leaders around the world. What are your thoughts on the perspective of shareholders in sustainability management? Generations are being born who will learn environmental issues at school, and I believe the foundation for understanding the need for sustainability in the growth of industry has been put in place. Mr. Sueyoshi: We have seen changes in the shareholder first corporate culture that has been the historical attitude among managers. Since the 2000s, financial institutions and companies have Mr. Fuma: Thirty years ago, investing in society and the environment was considered to be a moral, started holding dialogues with NGOs, reflecting this feedback in corporate activities. In August 2019, yet unprofitable, investment. PRI was founded 15 years later, and societal trends changed as ESG the Business Roundtable, consisting of major US companies, declared a shift from shareholder investment perspectives were incorporated. Sustainable finance has changed in the sense that it primacy to stakeholder capitalism. is now a profitable activity. Stakeholders have a deeper understanding, these obstacles have been I think these are changes in the axis of valuation that shows contributing to society is the more curtailed, and the bar has been lowered. rewarding path for shareholders. Should we not move forward believing that the voice of the shareholder represents the voice of society? I believe that timelines are important when considering goals from a long-term perspective. The Norinchukin Bank is a financial institution with a mission to support the agriculture, fishery, Q What do we need in order to incorporate the voices of the youth, our future stakeholders, and bridge the gap between producers and consumers? and forestry industries, and seeks to contribute through the agriculture, fishery, and forestry Q industries. As I listen to opinions from those in the field, I worry about what we should be doing. Is there any advice you can give us? Ms. Kubo: In Japan, we are aiming for zero emissions in the agriculture, fishery, and forestry industries by 2050. We will be formulating a roadmap to achieve this goal. I believe one must first envision a desired future state, and then to constantly review this state as one presses forward. Mr. Fuma: Around the world, there is a movement to envision an ideal future for the year 2050 based on the opinions of stakeholders. As a result, we are seeing more distinct gaps between the Mr. Fuma: As an example, although it is difficult to make concrete plans for 2050, setting goals actual and the ideal. We see clearer roles for each player and clearer financing needs. As a result, is significant in and of itself. Communicating your vision of an ideal future engages stakeholders, companies, governments, and financial institutions are able to work in unison. Considering the drives you closer to your goals, and attracts allies. In this sense, it is very significant to start by various challenges facing Japan's agriculture, fishery, and forestry industries, I think having a vision announcing long-term goals. for the ideal future in 2050 will help us think about what we should do now. Mr. Sueyoshi: Today, the world is aiming for a common goal of zero emissions. If we do not share Mr. Sueyoshi: After the war, Japan enjoyed great economic growth and an age of plenty, with less this goal, we cannot win the world's trust, nor can we stand on the same stage together. On the societal attention paid to the agriculture, fishery, and forestry industries. But the agriculture, fishery, other hand, I think no one feels assured that 2050 goals will be achieved completely. For example, and forestry industries are the ones most harmed by global warming. I think it is necessary to share even among the world's leading corporations, it is said that 70% of goals are likely to be realized, a sense of urgency in spreading information so the public can understand the situation. This may while the other 30% are simply que sera, sera (what will be, will be). be the time to discuss how we make sustainable industries that adapt to the world's structural It would probably be best to start by sharing goals. changes, different consumer preferences, and new value systems. We are 30 years away from 2050. Looking back on the past 30 years, I think we can see Q obstacles in the path to sustainability. What can you tell us that will inform our considerations going forward? Ms. Kubo: Thirty years ago, the three Rio Conventions (the United Nations Framework Convention on Climate Change, the Convention on Biological Diversity, and the United Nations Convention to Combat Desertification) were established. This was the era when sustainability began. In agriculture, the focus was on raising yields, and the core belief was that the environment was in conflict with Norinchukin Bank Sustainability Report 2020 Contents Ⅰ Sustainability Management at the Norinchukin Bank Ⅱ New Initiatives from Fiscal 2020 Ⅲ Past Initiatives and Results 14 Dialogue with Experts General Manager Comments Summary of Dialogue: Kazuto Oku President and Chief Executive Officer Tetsuya Kanamaru Shozo Goto Representative Director Representative Director (Head of Food & Agri Banking Business) (Head of Retail Banking Business) Thank you all for today's very thoughtful discussions. From the perspective of sustainability, we are I have always believed the question of what the thinking about what we should do, as well as Norinchukin Bank should do as a cooperative As a financial institution, we at the Norinchukin Bank believe that we can pursue sustainability what we can do. You've advised us to share our organization has been an issue. This has reaffirmed from an investor standpoint. Further, as a cooperative organization, I have recognized that it is organization's goals and act with certain aims. to me the importance of setting goals for the future. necessary to continue studying how to reflect the spirit of mutual assistance represented by We will continue our efforts going forward in I hope we proceed with a shared sense of urgency, financial inclusion in sustainability. consideration of the mission of the Norinchukin engaging in ongoing dialogues with the community Based on today's dialogue, I want to list five resolutions for the future. Bank. and creating a vision for the ideal futures for both urban and rural areas. 1) I want to set targets and challenge ourselves in terms of finance, in terms as a cooperative, and in terms of an organization built on a base of the agriculture, fishery, and forestry industries. 2) I want to proceed with efforts from the dual perspectives of global efficiency and local resiliency and sustainability. 3) A lthough agriculture is said to be an environmentally burdensome industry, I want to aim for an approach that achieves carbon offsets and negatives through initiatives in the forestry and fishery industries. I also want to consider the possibility that Japanese agricultural technology can contribute to reducing the environmental load of overseas agriculture, fishery, and forestry industries. 4) I want to consider uniquely Norinchukin methods of communicating information to stimulate people to think seriously about the environment and the Earth through food. Keito Shimbu Kazuhiko Otake 5) I want our directors and employees to think about the ideal future of both agriculture and Representative Director Representative Director ourselves through backcasting. Dedicated to Sustaining All Life. I hope we can work to link (Head of Global Investments) (Head of Corporate & Shared Services) this corporate brand statement to broadly include the life of the Earth as well. As you mentioned, society will change, business Considering future generations has once again made will change, and finance will change as well. me aware of our very heavy responsibility and the I have also reconfirmed that the Norinchukin Bank must create businesses that contribute to We would like to consider how we can contribute important management issue of sustainability. Carbon Zero by providing financing in the agricultural technology field. to sustainability through socially significant Keeping today's discussions and advice in mind, I investments, working toward this in a manner want to engage firmly in moving forward, allowing We will reflect today's discussions in our future initiatives. fitting for the Norinchukin Bank. that we will encounter frustrations. Norinchukin Bank Sustainability Report 2020 Contents Ⅰ Sustainability Management at the Norinchukin Bank Ⅱ New Initiatives from Fiscal 2020 Ⅲ Past Initiatives and Results 15 Key Initiatives for Achieving Sustainability Management The Norinchukin Bank has established five key initiatives for fiscal 2020, reflecting the world situation related to Medium-Term sustainable goals, environmental issues, and social considerations. We incorporated these key initiatives into our fiscal 2020 management plan, developing specific activities. Policies Contribute to solving environmental and social issues, including climate change and human rights, through our businesses, striving to ensure sustainability for the agriculture, fishery, and forestry industries, which represent the foundation of our business. Relevant SDGs Fiscal 2020 Key Initiatives The Bank’s Position in Society 1) Ensure agriculture, fishery, and forestry industry sustainability (Global) Environmental and Social Issues Areas to address as an organization Incorporate into business plans Medium-Term Sustainability Goals based on agriculture, fishery, and Interviews With Stakeholders forestry industries Environment, Gap Analysis Selection of Priority 2) Contribute to the realization of a circular society Initiatives for Fiscal 2020 (Five focus areas and 14 topics) Areas to address as a community3) Contribute to local community development based organization 4) C  onduct investments and financing activities with consideration Areas to address as a financial to the environment and society (sustainable financing) institution 5) Establish an organizational base toward implementing Areas to address as a corporation sustainable management Norinchukin Bank Sustainability Report 2020 Contents Ⅰ Sustainability Management at the Norinchukin Bank Ⅱ New Initiatives from Fiscal 2020 Ⅲ Past Initiatives and Results 16 Sustainability Issues Surrounding the Agriculture, Fishery, and Forestry Industries Sustainability issues in the agriculture, fishery, and forestry industries become more grave with each passing year. The Norinchukin Bank recognizes that these issues go to the foundation of our businesses. Sustainability Issues Surrounding the Agriculture, Fishery, and Forestry Industries Climate Change Sustainable ● Agriculture, forestry, and other land Lack of Agriculture, Fishery, Food Waste and use account for nearly one quarter Workers and Forestry industries of the world’s greenhouse gas Food Loss ● Relatively few farmers and companies emissions in Japan are obtaining GAP, FSC®, MEL*, ● Estimates say that the ● Natural disasters such as typhoons, and other certifications compared to citizens of Japan throw away floods, and large-scale forest fires their counterparts overseas the equivalent of one cup of overseas are increasing in number ● At the same time, food manufacturers cooked rice every day Urbanization year by year, causing significant and distributors are beginning to show ● Food waste also involves and Rural damage to agricultural products preferences for certified products greenhouse gas emissions Decline ● High temperatures in Japan are required for transport and causing issues with growth and incineration quality degradation Low Birth Rates and Declining Population Management and Foreign Worker Marine Plastics Utilization of Human Rights Forest Resources ● Some estimates say that the ● As the shortage of farm ● While many planted forests in Loss of volume of marine plastic will Japan are reaching depletion, workers becomes a challenge, dependence on foreign workers Biodiversity exceed the volume of fish in the reforestation efforts are not increases every year ocean by the year 2050 if no action is taken keeping up ● Illegal activities by employers ● Some estimates say that seafood ● Factors include stagnant are also a problem in agriculture eaters ingest the plastic equivalent stumpage prices, increased of one credit card pre week in costs of reforestation, and marine plastic difficulty in finding workers *GAP: Good Agricultural Practice FSC®: Forest Stewardship Council® MEL: Marine Eco-Label Japan Sustainability issues in agriculture, fishery, and forestry industries are nothing less than the very foundation of the Norinchukin Bank business We will contribute to solutions through our businesses Norinchukin Bank Sustainability Report 2020 Contents Ⅰ Sustainability Management at the Norinchukin Bank Ⅱ New Initiatives from Fiscal 2020 Ⅲ Past Initiatives and Results 17 Solving Environmental and Social Issues Through Sustainable Finance Norinchukin Bank Sustainable Finance Goals As a member of a cooperative organization supporting pursuing sustainability in society (including the agriculture, management. agriculture, fishery, and forestry industries, the Norinchukin fishery, and forestry industries) and our business activities. In addition to credit decisions based on traditional finance risks, Bank understands that our businesses are part of the life Our main contribution to this goal is through sustainable the Norinchukin Bank has also adopted the ESG Integration and natural environment sustained through these industries. finance. framework. We use this framework not only for internal We pursue sustainability-oriented management, including We approach sustainable finance through the dual aspects controls, but also as a tool to engage in dialogue with our support for the SDGs, to solve environmental and social issues, of securing business opportunities and engaging in risk business partners. Secure Business Opportunities Risk Management ESG-Oriented Investment and Finance → P18 Environmental and Social Risk Management (ESRM) → P21 We conduct investment and financing activities to generate profit and to contribute to the We have built an ESRM framework to assess and manage environmental risks and social risks development of sustainable societies and to the growth of the agriculture, fishery, and forestry prior to making investment and financing decisions for individual customers and projects. industries. ■ The ESRM Framework New Investment and Loan Target for Fiscal 2020: ¥250 billion Risk Assessment and Management Process Managed Outstanding Assets Under Management (as of March 2020): ¥1.8 trillion Sources of Risk Risk Due Diligence Process Life of Investment/Loan Sustainability Linked Loans → P19 EnvironBy Sector Sector Policies We began handling sustainability linked loans in May 2020. Here, our objective is to advance mental Issues Credit Risk/ initiatives for solving the environmental and social issues faced by customers from a strategic (E) Stranded approach. At the same time, we support the improvement of our own mediumand long-term By Monitoring Asset Risk ESG Integration Counterparty ESG Incident corporate value. Social Issues Reputation → P20 (S) By Project Equator Principles JA Bank Efforts Toward Renewable Energy Demand Risk ESG Integration → P18・21 We are striving to build a decision-making process for investment and loan decisions that integrates a recognition of environmental and social risk into credit decisions based on the traditional financial risks evaluation process. This framework is a tool not only for internal controls, but also for engaging in dialogue with customers based on non-financial information. Norinchukin Bank Sustainability Report 2020 Contents Ⅰ Sustainability Management at the Norinchukin Bank Ⅱ New Initiatives from Fiscal 2020 Ⅲ Past Initiatives and Results 18 Initiatives to Turn Solutions for Environmental and Social Issues Into Business Opportunities ESG-Oriented Investment and Finance Topics From the We have set a new investment and loan target of ¥250 billion Front Lines for fiscal 2020. Investing in Sustainable Development Bonds Of our roughly ¥64 trillion in market assets, we have allocated A total of US$1.4 billion has been invested in sustainable ¥1.8 trillion to ESG-oriented investment and financing. development bonds issued by the World Bank (more Fixed Income (as of March 2020) Investment precisely the International Bank for Reconstruction and Division Development). Manager FY2020 These bonds have been issued through a partnership Junichi between the Norinchukin Bank and the World Bank, and New ESG-Oriented Investment and Finance Target Fujimori investment in these bonds represents an important part of ¥250 billion how we support the achievement of four of the 17 SDGs Experts say that public funds will not be sufficient to that we pursue in particular. As the first initiative of its achieve the SDGs and that considerable private funds type for Japan, these bonds represent our efforts with the will be needed. We believe investing in the World Bank World Bank to show the world the importance of initiatives ESG Integration Sustainable Development Bonds is a unique contribution related to the SDGs that are highly regarded by investors. that the Norinchukin Bank can make as one of the world’s We incorporate ESG integration into our investment and loan leading institutional investors. This investment features Investments in these bonds financially support World projects as a measure toward environmental and social risk a balance between solving social issues and securing Bank initiatives in cooperation with the SDGs, including management (→P.21). Our investment decisions are based on investment returns. To solve issues sustainably, rather improved grain storage technology and projects for a comprehensive evaluation integrating financial analysis than treating sustainability as a temporary fad, we must sustainable fisheries and the protection of marine and ESG assessment related to the customer. By engaging avoid a stoppage in the flow of funds along the way. At the resources. We follow up consistently on the progress of in dialogue with our customer throughout this process, we same time, we cannot give short shrift to profits if we are these projects, contributing to agriculture, fishery and learn of their concerns and issues. In so doing, we support our to engage seriously with sustainability. forestry industry sustainability. customer's sustainability initiatives and create new business One of the major topics addressed by the Sustainable Further, these investments contribute to measures against opportunities. Development Bonds is food loss. The issue of food loss is climate change by reducing greenhouse gas emissions. related closely to the issue of greenhouse gas emissions. In addition, these investments contribute to stable profits Climate change caused by greenhouse gases ripples through internationally diversified investments, while outward, manifesting in impact across national borders. also aligning with the Norinchukin Bank philosophy of We believe that solving the global food loss problem will sustainability-oriented management. mitigate climate change and contribute significantly to Japan's agriculture, fishery and forestry industries, which are sensitive to changes in the environment. We will continue striving for sustainability through the work of the Norinchukin Bank and the organizations in our cooperative system. Norinchukin Bank Sustainability Report 2020 Contents Ⅰ Sustainability Management at the Norinchukin Bank Ⅱ New Initiatives from Fiscal 2020 Ⅲ Past Initiatives and Results 19 Sustainability Linked Loans Topics From the We began handling sustainability linked loans in May 2020. Front Lines Here, our objective is to advance initiatives for solving the Sustainability Linked Loan No.1 environmental and social issues faced by customers from In May 2020, the Norinchukin Bank executed a a strategic approach. At the same time, we support the sustainability linked loan with Mitsubishi Estate Co., Ltd. Sales Section improvement of our own mediumand long-term corporate No.2 This was the first sustainability linked loan funding a Assistant value. project in Japan’s real estate industry, as well as the first Senior Manger This product involves Sustainability Performance Targets (SPTs) reflecting sustainability goals based on customer sustainability linked loan by the Norinchukin Bank. Ryosuke business strategy. Linking loan conditions with progress toward Ito The loan was executed under SPTs to reduce CO2 achieving SPTs motivates customers to achieve their goals. emissions (35% reduction by 2030 compared to 2017) and Here, our aim is to support the sustainable business activities We collaborated with Dai Maru Yu SDGs ACT5, an increase the ratio of renewable electricity (25% by 2030), and growth of our customers in terms of the environment and organization promoting activities that cross corporate based on the goals identified in the Mitsubishi Estate society. borders in the Otemachi, Marunouchi, and Yurakucho Group SDGs 2030. The Mitsubishi Estate Group plans to districts of Tokyo. Our efforts here provided an use a portion of the funds to increase the use of renewable opportunity to understand the Mitsubishi Estate’s electricity and reduce CO2, which we expect will contribute Incentives sustainability initiatives. The Norinchukin Bank began (+ Positive Impact) to solving climate change issues. our own sustainability-oriented management in 2019, In concluding the loan agreement, we sought a third-party and our affinity with the long-term view of Mitsubishi opinion from Japan Credit Rating Agency, Ltd. regarding Estate’s philosophies and goals led to the execution of compliance with the principles of sustainability linked loans the sustainability-linked loan. The long-term loan period and the rationale behind the SPTs involved. of 11 years and 3 months was a product of our mutual Dialogue understanding. I also think this project raised awareness Through this loan, we will support the Mitsubishi Estate The of new work and corporate sales styles, as we conducted Customers Norinchukin Group’s efforts toward creating a sustainable society. Bank communications mainly online in this time of the COVID-19 pandemic. Sustainability linked loans are very interesting in that they allow both business profits and social sustainability, while creating the potential for open innovation in partnership with other companies. I hope to continue gathering like-minded people both within and ESG Goal Achievement outside the bank, finding rewarding projects and creating new outcomes. Norinchukin Bank Sustainability Report 2020 Contents Ⅰ Sustainability Management at the Norinchukin Bank Ⅱ New Initiatives from Fiscal 2020 Ⅲ Past Initiatives and Results 20 JA Bank Efforts Toward Renewable Energy Demand Topics From the The ratio of renewable energy in Japan’s power supply Front Lines compositions is roughly 16% currently, lower than other Partnering With Four Renewable Energy developed economies. Construction and Sales Companies JA Bank At the same time, Japan's Fifth Basic Energy Plan calls for The Norinchukin Bank has set our sights on strengthening System Retail a renewable energy mix of between 22% and 24% by 2030. Innovation financial support for renewable energy generation, Consulting & Therefore, we can expect future government policies and particularly in the field of solar power generation. Here, Practive Div. public-private initiatives to support the spread of renewable energy. we launched a partnership with four companies having Yudai JA Bank handles products compatible with solar power a national track record in low-voltage solar power Yamaguchi generation: West Energy Solution Inc., Eco Style Co., generation facilities to encourage members of JA and JF to Ltd., Kyocera Corporation, and Sanix Incorporated. Under adopt renewable energy. Our department is responsible for credit business planning this partnership, we aim to improve the incomes of the Further, we launched a partnership with four renewable energy and practice, leveraging the nationwide economic members of JA and JF in every prefecture. power construction and sales companies in May 2019. Our goal foundation and resources of the JA Group. The JA Group here is to adopt agricultural solar sharing and encourage the members of JA and JF have an important role to play in effective use of idle land, contributing to higher incomes among local economies. At the same time, agriculture, which is members of JA and JF and greater regional revitalization. the foundation of our business, is affected significantly by climate change. For this reason, we believe that encouraging the spread of renewable energy is one of our responsibilities. Here, one of our major characteristics is how we promote solar sharing. For example, if an installed panel is expected to generate sellable electricity for 20 years, careful research must be conducted as to whether farming activities can be performed under these panels throughout that same time period. I believe the JA Group has particular strengths in this aspect of the business. One major feature of the solar sharing that we encourage at Norinchukin Bank is that we provide construction companies access to untapped areas of farmland, which improves the income of members of JA and JF and allows JA the potential to grow its loan base. For us, this is a sanpo yoshi (three-way good) for all involved. Solar sharing is a new initiative, which makes it a bit difficult to popularize across Japan. Our first order of business is to help others learn about the benefits of this system. Norinchukin Bank Sustainability Report 2020 Contents Ⅰ Sustainability Management at the Norinchukin Bank Ⅱ New Initiatives from Fiscal 2020 Ⅲ Past Initiatives and Results 21 Initiatives to Manage Environmental and Social Risks Aiming to Improve Risk Governance Specific ESRM Initiatives of the Norinchukin Bank ● Equator Principles We confirm compliance with the Equator Principles and The extent and importance of environmental and social The Norinchukin Bank established our Environmental Policy monitor compliance with the covenants. challenges to be addressed is increasing in practicing and Human Rights Policy in November 2019 as basic policies sustainable finance. We must assess and manage to solve environmental and social challenges. We engage 1) F  inance Application 2) Project Information environmental and social risks when assess transactions with in appropriate risk management according to priority and Project Information investment and finance customers and related projects. based on these policies for topics and sectors recognized as Credit Risk In addition to the evaluation and judgment of environmental having a strong potential for significant negative impact on the Management and social risks on investment and financing front, we are environment and society. Investment Front-Line Division Equator Finance Clients Divisions building an environmental and social risk management (ESRM) Principal Review Team framework to escalate decisions when necessary in response ● Investment and financing sector policy to checks by the risk management department or judgments We prohibit and restrict transactions in sectors that have 3) C  onfirm by management. We will work on sophisticating of our ESRM Compliance the strong potential for significant negative impact on the framework in stages, aiming to incorporate the framework into environment and society. We confirm the response to and integrated risk management. consideration for environmental and social issues when Investment Decision Authority (Credit Risk Management Division, etc.) we consider an investment and financing project in these restricted sectors. We then determine whether to provide From the Front Lines financing to the client after discussions at management level. ● Responding to environmental and social incidents At present, we have set a policy for investment and financing By monitoring environmental and social incident information*1 Risk Management Division in the following sectors, and we will work on extending the list Senior Manager of our clients, we can take action to avoid the reputation risk of restricted sectors. or credit risk caused by environmental and social risks. We Hirokazu Masuoka Restricted sectors under control of the investment and perform regular monitoring of investment and finance clients We launched the new ESRM financing policy covered by the investment and financing sector policy. system in collaboration *1 Information on corporate and business activities and related events that with many other related departments. I think this system ・Cluster munitions ・P  alm oil plantation/oil may have serious impact on the environment or society will play an important role when we respond to changes ・Coal-fired thermal extraction surrounding environmental and social challenges. At the power plant ・Deforestation TV, newspaper, Information from same time, in response to the TCFD recommendations, and other external information media reports vendors we began conducting scenario analyses related to transition risk associated with climate change. Through ● ESG integration in risk management the expansion and advancement of these initiatives, we Norinchukin internal information The risk management department evaluates environmental collection and sharing want to provide information that serves as a compass for and social risks for investment and finance clients and serves management to lead the bank. Addressing sustainability is as a second line of support for ESG integration conducted by about solving issues necessary to meet our needs without the front-line departments. Discussion between Credit Risk Interviews with investment Management Division and front-line placing a burden on future generations. Through my work, and finance clients departments I hope to contribute to the sustainable development of the world, the communities of Japan, and the agriculture, fishery and forestry industries. Norinchukin Bank Sustainability Report 2020 Contents Ⅰ Sustainability Management at the Norinchukin Bank Ⅱ New Initiatives from Fiscal 2020 Ⅲ Past Initiatives and Results 22 Contribution to Climate Change Mitigation and Adaption The agriculture and fisheries industries are prone to the impacts of climate change and, at the same time, have the potential of amplifying climate change. We think the response to climate change is important for the development of the agriculture, fishery and forestry industries, which is the mission of the Norinchukin Bank. We promote efforts to mitigate and adapt to climate change through our business activities, focusing on capturing business opportunities related to climate change and risk management. As part of our efforts, we expressed support in April 2019 for the TCFD recommendations established by the Financial Stability Board (FSB). We are properly addressing the impact and risks of climate change on our business, engaging in initiatives and expanding our disclosures based on the TCFD recommendations. Governance for Addressing Climate Change ● Transition risk ● Initiatives for ensuring the sustainability of forests Stranded asset risk and impact on the credit risk of investment The Norinchukin Bank holds regular meetings of our and the forestry industry and finance clients due to changes government policies, Sustainability Committee (under the board of directors) to We are engaged in various initiatives legal regulations, technologies, markets, etc., associated with discuss policies addressing environmental and social issues, to sustain and revitalize the forest initiatives to mitigate and adapt to climate change. including climate change, and the status of our initiatives. function to absorb carbon dioxide. The details of the conference/meeting are reported to the board → P24 ● Physical risk of directors and the Supervisory Committee as needed. Risk of an increase in financial damage through physical In fiscal 2019, we discussed establishing an Environmental ● Solar sharing initiative damage to our assets and the assets of investment and finance Policy (basic policies for solving environmental issues) and We contribute to local community clients caused by climate change-related natural disasters and creating an environmental and social risk management system, revitalization through solar sharing extreme weather events. including improvements to managing our Investment and (agricultural photovoltaic power Financing Sector Policy. These discussions were reported to the generation) and the use of idle board of directors subsequently. land by partnering with renewable energy power generation equipment → P20 Opportunities Related to Climate Change manufacturers and distributers. We support the transition to a decarbonized society through ●A  griculture, Fishery and Forestry Environmental Rating our business activities through financing services. We have adopted a system that incorporates our own unique assessment checklist to evaluate our investments and Topics ● Initiatives through sustainable financing financing. The TCFD Consortium was established in May 2019 as We support the initiatives of our investment and finance clients a platform in which the government and private sectors for climate change issues through sustainable financing. Climate Change-Related Risks discuss initiatives for corporations to disclose information 「 TCFD Consortium 」ロゴマーク effectively and for financial institutions, etc., to utilize this We recognize transition and physical risks that are related to information for investment decisions. We support offshore wind the transition to a decarbonized society and climate change. We have declared our support electricity production overseas We are engaged in conducting risk evaluation through scenario for and participation in the through project → P35 analysis, etc., and manage these climate change-related risks consortium. financing. appropriately under an integrated risk management framework. Norinchukin Bank Sustainability Report 2020 Contents Ⅰ Sustainability Management at the Norinchukin Bank Ⅱ New Initiatives from Fiscal 2020 Ⅲ Past Initiatives and Results 23 Impact Analysis of Climate Change-Related Risk analysis. to the transition to a decarbonized society. Such projects In addition to the initiatives above, we participate in the include carbon capture and storage technology (CCS) that helps We began conducting scenario analyses to understand the research project on the Evaluation of the Impacts of Climatereduce greenhouse gas emissions. impact of climate-related risks on our credit portfolio. related Risks on the Financial Institutions in Japan sponsored We conduct due diligence on large-scale development projects We evaluate the financial impacts of transition risks on by the Financial Services Agency. Through participation in the based on the Equator Principles. investments and financing in the energy utility sector based project, we aim to refine our analysis methodology by utilizing on the Sustainable Development Scenario published by the the Paris Agreement Capital Transition Assessment, which is a Reducing Greenhouse Gas Emissions Through International Energy Agency (IEA). climate-related risk analysis model for portfolios developed by Business Activities Our scenario analysis is based on the method published by the French think tank 2 Degrees Investing Initiative (2DII). pilot project led by the United Nations Environment Program We are engaged in understanding greenhouse gas emissions, Finance Initiative (UNEP FI) with the objective of discussing and Managing Climate Change-Related Risks striving to reduce the environmental burden through our developing methods for climate-related financial information business activities. disclosure in the banking industry. We adopted an environmental and social risk management Unit: tCO2 Through scenario analysis, we evaluate mediumand longframework centered on investment and financing sector policy. term changes in credit costs caused by the progress of This framework helps us manage environmental and social Measurement item FY2018 decarbonization. risks, including climate change, in investment and financing. Scope1 Direct emissions 2,063 We will also utilize the results of the scenario analysis for In November 2019, we established the Environmental Policy as engagement with our investment and finance clients. a basic policy to solve environmental issues. Scope2 Indirect emissions 25,247 We will also strive to understand the impact on sectors that are In April 2020, we established a new policy for deforestation prone to the impact of climate change, including the beverage and palm oil farm development, which are regarded as Other indirect emissions and food industries that form the food and agriculture value environmental and social problems that also impact climate chain. We plan to conduct studies regarding physical risk impact change. Scope3 3 Energy-related activities 858 When considering an investment and finance client who 6 Business travel 455 conducts business in plantation and oil expression for palm 1 Carbon-related assets (as of end of March 2020) * oil production, we confirm that the client has a Roundtable on Total 28,623 Sustainable Palm Oil (RSPO) certificate. Ratio of the carbon-related assets to the total Sector When considering a client who conducts deforestation business financed amount in an emerging country, we confirm that the client has Forest Energy 2.0％ Stewardship Council ® (FSC®) or Program for the Endorsement of Forest Certification Schemes (PEFC®) certifications, both Utilities 1.9％ recognized internationally. Total 3.9％ In July 2020, we tightened our policy for the coal-fired thermal power generation sector based on the demands of Financed amount: 19.8 trillion yen (as of end of March 2020) the international community for the progress of initiatives to *1 Financed assets excluding the financed assets for renewable power achieve a decarbonized society. As a result, we decided not to generation, etc. from the financed assets that belong to the energy and finance a new coal-fired thermal plant project. However, we will utilities sectors based on the TCFD recommendations are defined as carbon-related assets. continue supporting technologies and initiatives that contribute Norinchukin Bank Sustainability Report 2020 Contents Ⅰ Sustainability Management at the Norinchukin Bank Ⅱ New Initiatives from Fiscal 2020 Ⅲ Past Initiatives and Results 24 Restoring a Healthy Circulation of Forest and Forest Industry Providing Full Support for Wood Utilization Initiative Forest Industry Issues in Japan The Norinchukin Bank/JForest Association Initiatives Japan is a forest superpower. Japan’s forests account This fund was established in 2005 (the former fund until 2013) and subsidized 99 projects nationwide over a total of 17,700 hectares valued at ¥1.95 billion as of the end of fiscal 2019. for about two-thirds of its national land area and cover Nochu Potential Forest This fund contributes to the regeneration of devastated private-owned forests by about 25 million hectares. The total timber volume Productivity Fund subsidizing projects that aim to maintain the public benefits and multiple functions of (volume of timber in forests) of Japan is about 5.2 forests in a sustainable manner. billion cubic meters. The majority of Japan’s forests are artificial forests planted after World War II. About The annual death/injury rate per 1,000 workers in the forest industry is about 10 times the half of the trees are nearly 50 years old, so cutting and average of all industries. It is urgent to improve the labor safety in the forest industry. replanting are necessary. Upstream Issues This project subsidizes the purchase of safety equipment, etc., for forestry work, which is Forestry Labor Safety The biggest problem facing the forest industry in granted to forest owners’ cooperatives, forest owners who cut trees in their forests, and Improvement Measures Japan is that forest owners cannot replant their forests, Management volunteer or part-time students (2,149 cases/400 million yen from FY2015 to FY2019). intensification, A new initiative, Forestry Safety Education 360 Degree VR, was added to the even if they wish to do so. This is because of low integration and project in fiscal 2020. → P25 timber prices, high costs for replanting, and the lack of expansion of raw business succession planning. wood production Forest replanting activities to cut, replant, and grow trees are inactive mainly due to low Forest Industry Contributions to Mitigate and timber prices. To overcome the current situation, we started a new initiative called the Low-cost Forest Replanting Project (a proof-of-concept test in a model management area) Adapt to Climate Change Low-Cost Forest in fiscal 2020. We carry out the project in cooperation with JForest Moriren (Prefectural Replanting Measures Federations of Forestry Cooperatives) nationwide, aiming to reduce costs (by using a large In the meantime, the carbon absorption capacity of A new initiative container nursery tree, low-density planting), shorten the cutting cycle (from 50 years to 30 launched in fiscal 2020 years by using fast-growing trees), and find new distribution channels. forests is attracting attention from the perspective We will carry out the initiative to achieve circular forest and forestry management. of global warming prevention. Based on the Paris Agreement, and as one of the initiatives to reduce greenhouse gas emissions under the United Nations Framework Convention on Climate Change, Japan aims Wood exports from Japan are on the rise (34.6 billion yen in fiscal 2019), mainly due to a to promote initiatives to prevent global warming. These growing demand for wood overseas. Midstream Issues Export Support We support exports through timber intensification in cooperation with a network of forest initiatives include forest absorption source measures Productivity improvement of owners’ cooperatives, and we are exploring new demands for Japanese timber overseas. through proper maintenance and conservation of processing and marketing forests, for example, by thinning the trees at an annual average of 0.52-million hectares from FY2013 to FY2020. Wood Solution → P25 Network (WSN) Downstream Issues Wood demand expansion/ Spreading wood use wood utilization expansion As part of the efforts to expand the utilization of Japanese wood, we cooperate with a education and network of forest owners’ cooperatives nationwide to promote education by using wood expanding the products in events sponsored by government, schools, etc., nationwide. We also participate utilization of wood in activities to donate wood products. products nationwide Norinchukin Bank Sustainability Report 2020 Contents Ⅰ Sustainability Management at the Norinchukin Bank Ⅱ New Initiatives from Fiscal 2020 Ⅲ Past Initiatives and Results 25 Topics From the Wood Solution Network to Forestry Safety Education 360 Degree VR that Front Lines Expand the Utilization of Japanese Wood improves the labor safety of forestry Food & To solve the issues facing the forestry industry in Japan, we must In fiscal 2020, we expanded the Agriculture create a platform by which various companies and organizations Forest Labor Safety Measures and Business (from upstream forest owners’ cooperatives to midstream added an educational tool called Planning Division lumber, processing, and distribution companies, and finally to the Forestry Safety Education 360 Forest Group downstream nearest end users) come together to solve issues. Degree VR. Labor safety can be Kaho In 2016, we established the Wood Solution Network (WSN) to improved by experiencing various Oyobe expand the utilization of wood, focusing on Japanese wood. dangers at forestry sites in a A total of 31 companies and organizations involved in wood virtual world. participate in the WSN (as of June 2020). These entities include The main feature of our Forest Group is to be engaged in forestry producer’s groups, lumber companies involved in solving issues for expanding the utilization of wood and wood processing and distribution, trading companies, general What is VR? creating new added value downstream in cooperation contractors, and housing manufacturers. We have established a VR is an abbreviation for virtual reality. with industrial and academic communities, focused on wood value chain to create added value in wood, from logging and A landscape totally different from maintaining the forest and forestry cycle of cutting → transport, through lumber processing and distribution, and finally that seen up until now appears before to consumption. Our aim here is to expand demand for wood and planting → growing trees in mountains. the user due to the user wearing VR revitalize the forestry and related industries, as well as promote goggles, enabling the user to experience the landscape as though I expect the WSN to be a platform that solves issues. I am regional development. really there. convinced that, through active discussion and activities of more than 30 wood-related companies and organizations We put together the results of the activities with high aspirations and deep knowledge that participate and published them in an VR Screen Images in the network, a chemical reaction will happen. This approach book. reaction cannot be achieved by a single company, but only achieved through a network. Improving the labor safety of forestry in sustainable forest management is another important issue. There are many dangerous tasks at forestry sites. My hope is that we can contribute to safety through subsidies and educational tools. We actively promote new initiatives, such as the Forestry Safety Education 360 Degree VR tool, utilizing the latest technologies. We are committed to preserving the rich natural environment of mountains and forests, beautiful water sources, and clean air. We are also committed Satoshi Iwaso, Norinchukin’s managing executive officer People cannot normally experience a life-threatening dangerous experience in to passing these natural gifts to future generations by (left) and Asako Nagano, which they are hit by a tree felled by another person. VR allows users to receive combining our expertise and knowledge with external division director, Forestry training safely by repeating the experience until they understand why the tree fell Agency (right) toward them and where things went wrong in the procedure. resources. Norinchukin Bank Sustainability Report 2020 Contents Ⅰ Sustainability Management at the Norinchukin Bank Ⅱ New Initiatives from Fiscal 2020 Ⅲ Past Initiatives and Results 26 [Reference] Declaring the Initiatives of the JA Group JA Group SDG Initiatives In addition to the world’s governments, private-sector organizations and businesses are also expected to play a role in achieving the SDGs. Cooperative organizations also have a role to play. Based on these circumstances and high expectations for cooperative associations, the JA Group summarized and published the JA Group SDGs Declaration, reflecting the group’s basic philosophy, in May 2020. As a member of the JA Group, the Norinchukin Bank will continue to promote initiatives to achieve the SDGs. Norinchukin Bank Sustainability Report 2020 Contents Ⅰ Sustainability Management at the Norinchukin Bank Ⅱ New Initiatives from Fiscal 2020 Ⅲ Past Initiatives and Results 27 Column Initiatives Against COVID-19 Demand for agriculture, fishery and forestry products has sharply declined due to COVID-19, greatly affecting the management foundations of the agriculture, fishery, and forestry industries. As a member of JA Bank and JF Marine Bank, the Bank is working to provide smooth financing through a variety of support options to ensure sustainability of the agriculture, fishery, and forestry industries and to secure their stable management foundations. Establishment of the COVID-19 Emergency Fund Financial Support for Customer Fiscal Stability Support for Japan's Flower Producers We have created and launched operations for the following We use investments to provide fiscal help to our customers During the Corona Crisis fund to help our customers who have been affected by the who have been affected by the outbreak of COVID-19. In collaboration with HIBIYA-KADAN FLORAL CO., LTD., the outbreak of COVID-19. Norinchukin Bank has distributed individually-wrapped, fresh Corporations operating in the agriculture, fishery Eligible Recipients and forestry industries that have been directly or flowers at Tokyo Midtown Hibiya every Friday and Saturday Fund Name COVID-19 Emergency Fund indirectly harmed by the spread of COVID-19 of the months of June and July in 2020. This was done to Corporations operating in the agriculture, fishery Maximum Investment support producers of flowers across Japan and stimulate Eligible Recipients and forestry industries that have been directly or ¥30 million (up to ¥100 million if conditions met) Amount demand for flowers during the corona crisis. indirectly harmed by the spread of COVID-19 Investment Period Maximum 15 years With ongoing suspension and postponements of events Funds Usage Working capital, stopgap funds, etc. New Investment such as weddings and graduation ceremonies, demand for January 2023 Amount of Lending Maximum ¥50 million Deadline flowers throughout the country has sharply declined. In order Consultation Lending Period Maximum 1 year JA, Shinnoren, the Norinchukin Bank Locations to support these flower producers, we made purchases for Lending Interest Rate Fixed rate flowers such as the rose, gerbera daisy, and carnation from * In this scheme, Agribusiness Investment & Consultation Co., Ltd., established * Damage status and other circumstances may be checked separately. In addition, through joint investment from the Japan Finance Corporation and JA Group, producers all over Japan. For distribution, we hired helpers loans require a prescribed screening, loan requests may not be able to be invests in agricultural corporations that meet certain conditions. * Damage status and other circumstances may be checked separately. Please such as university students said to be suffering from poverty fulfilled depending on the results of this screening. Please contact your nearest Norinchukin branch for details. contact your nearest JA Bank for details. due to business closures at their part-time jobs. Actions at JA Bank Actions at JF Marine Bank Photo: Helpers distributing flowers Within the JA Bank (JA/Shinnoren/the Bank), JA Bank Within the JF Marine Bank (JF/Shingyoren/the Norinchukin branches offer consultations about lending and other Bank), JF Marine Bank branches offer consultations about services for branch users who have been affected by the lending and other services for branch users who have been spread of COVID-19. affected by the spread of COVID-19. If users cannot get If users cannot get support at their usual JA Bank branch, support at their usual JF Marine Bank branch, they are asked they are asked to use the contact information provided in JA to use the contact information provided in JF Marine Bank Bank Disaster Consultation Line, below. Disaster Consultation Line, below. A Bank Disaster Consultation Line JF Marine Bank Disaster Consultation Line https://www.nochubank.or.jp/consult/urgency/jabank.html https://www.nochubank.or.jp/consult/urgency/jfmarinebank.html (Japanese only) (Japanese only)） Norinchukin Bank Sustainability Report 2020 Contents Ⅰ Sustainability Management at the Norinchukin Bank Ⅱ New Initiatives from Fiscal 2020 Ⅲ Past Initiatives and Results 28 Focus Area 1 Creating positive impact on the agriculture, fishery and forestry industries food and local communities In this focus area, the Norinchukin Bank aims to utilize accumulated knowledge in food and agriculture, conduct investment and lending, build business partnerships, collaborate with stakeholders, and generate new innovation to promote initiatives to contribute to the preservation and development of local communities and the natural environment. Here, we will turn the agriculture, fishery and forestry industries into sustainable growth industries. Topics Medium-Term Goals Contribute to sustainable agriculture, fishery and Through initiatives in the Food and Agriculture Business and collaboration with stakeholders, we contribute to the realization Topic 1-1 forestry industries of sustainable agriculture, fishery and forestry industries. Topic 1-2 Contribute to safe and secure food supply We leverage our organizational knowledge in food and agriculture to contribute to people's rich dietary lifestyles. We contribute to providing solutions for and supporting sustainable development of local communities across all of Japan, the Topic 1-3 Contribute to sustainable local communities foundations of the agriculture, fishery and forestry industries. Conserve the natural environment as a foundation of We contribute to conserving the natural environment, such as soil, forests, rivers, and oceans, which are fundamental for the Topic 1-4 the agriculture, fishery and forestry industries sustainable development of the agriculture, fishery and forestry industries. We contribute to the sustainable development of the agriculture, fishery and forestry industries through investments and Topic 1-5 Create business innovation business alliances that create new technologies and business models. Major Initiatives Related SDGs ⃝P  rovide financial support and solutions to management issues for agricultural, fishery, and forestry organizations ⃝C  ollaborate with the Japan Institute of Agricultural Management, which trains next-generation farm operators ⃝S  upport the Support the agriculture, fishery and forestry industries and help revitalize industries and help revitalize local communities via the Agriculture, Fishery and Forestry Future Fund, a general incorporated association ⃝C  onduct food and farming education activities ⃝S  upport forest rejuvenation through the Wood Solution Network, the Norinchukin Forest Rejuvenation Fund (Nochu Potential Forest Productivity Fund), Potential Forest Productivity Fund, and more ⃝C  reate business innovation by supporting startup companies Norinchukin Bank Sustainability Report 2020 Contents Ⅰ Sustainability Management at the Norinchukin Bank Ⅱ New Initiatives from Fiscal 2020 Ⅲ Past Initiatives and Results 29 Contributing to sustainable agriculture, fishery and the basis of our initiative to increase income for producers and Example Initiatives in Forestry forestry industries improve customer satisfaction (CS). See pages 24 and 25 for details. Provide financial support and solutions to Example Initiative in Fisheries management issues for the agriculture, fishery and As a member of the JF Group, the Norinchukin Bank is forestry industries coordinating with fishery operators and people in coastal areas to protect the seas and the lives of community residents. Example Initiative in Agriculture For example, in the Kesennuma area of Miyagi Prefecture, As a member of the JA Group, and as a financial institution coastal tuna longline fishing has supported the foundation of playing a role at JA Bank, the Norinchukin Bank supports the fishery industry for many years. However, the 2011 Great the development of management and cultivation of people East Japan Earthquake disrupted processing and distribution, underpinning Japanese agriculture. We do this through striving leading to a prolonged severe business environment. Six local to provide unimpeded financing and multifaceted solutions in fishery companies then decided to work together to resolve fields related to food and agriculture. this issue. The Norinchukin Bank, along with the Japan Finance One specific initiative is our demonstration of a consulting Corporation, helped these fishermen with management function to increase agricultural income. support and financing, aiding them in becoming a joint stock We extract, clarify, and share the management issues that company and building replacement ships. In October 2018, the need to be resolved based on an understanding of the actual Kesennuma Kanae Fisheries Company Co., Ltd. was established. business situation by conducting multiple in-depth dialogues Vessels were transferred successfully to each company, and in with the operators of agricultural corporations. These form September 2019 the company brought its first catch to market. That same year, the 149-ton Kanae-maru ship was completed. These achievements served as contributions to rejuvenating Issues in Agricultural Management the local fishery industry. Evolution of business ？ administration IoT / AgTech Talent cultivation Producer Business succession Tackling new business Exporting ？ Operator Expanding sales Sixth Improving yield channels industrialization ... and more. Sharing issues and needs Support for in agricultural Management Growth management management analysis support improvement and solutions JA Bank (JA, Shinnoren, Banks) Proposal Staff Collaboration (Leverage networks) JA (Sales Mgmt Div.) / Zen-Noh / Experts / Gov't / Affiliates / Firms Final goals Increased producer income Improved customer satisfaction The Kesennuma fishing port enjoys naturally favorable conditions for ships. Its fishermen bring large catches of bonito, tuna, marlin, saury, and shark. Norinchukin Bank Sustainability Report 2020 Contents Ⅰ Sustainability Management at the Norinchukin Bank Ⅱ New Initiatives from Fiscal 2020 Ⅲ Past Initiatives and Results 30 Contributing to a Safe and Secure Food Supply Contributing to Sustainable Local Communities Supporting the Redistribution of Excess Food The Agricultural, Forestry, and Fisheries Future Fund, Number of projects targeted and amount of subsidy from Inventory to Reduce Food Loss Supporting Local Agriculture, Fishery and Forestry the Agricultural, Forestry, and Fisheries Future Fund Organizations ■ Number of applications In Japan, the amount of food loss, food that could otherwise ■ Number of projects approved for subsidy (left axis) be eaten but is thrown away, instead, is 6.12 million tons per The Agricultural, Forestry, and Fisheries Future Fund was ● Approved subsidy amount (right axis) year (2017 estimate by the Ministry of Agriculture, Forestry and established in 2014 by the Norinchukin Bank, a member of the (Projects) (Billions of yen) Fisheries). JA Group, JF Group, and JForest Group, with a ¥20.0 billion 150 9.0 10 8.5 Of this loss, the food manufacturing, food wholesaling, and food contribution. This fund seeks to support initiatives to nurture 7.4 120 6.7 6.8 6.4 8 retailing industries count for approximately one-third. leaders who drive the sustainable development of the agriculture, 6.4 To resolve this issue, the bank began working with SynaBiz fishery and forestry industries, strengthen the revenue base of 90 90 79 79 95 6 74 Co., Ltd. in December 2019. Through the bank, SynaBiz is these industries, and revitalize local communities based on the introduced to companies facing concerns over dealing with agriculture, fishery and forestry industries. 60 47 4 food inventory, when ordinary distribution is made difficult due 30 2 to seasonal products, packaging changes, and other factors, 6 8 9 9 5 8 forcing inventories to be disposed of over time. Through the Projects targeted by the Agricultural, Forestry, and 0 0 2014 2015 2016 2017 2018 2019 SynaBiz-operated Otameshi social contribution-style distribution Fisheries Future Fund (FY) platform, we work to redistribute these inventories. Going forward, we will leverage the Otameshi distribution Food and Farming Education Activities Agriculture platform and the bank's network in strengthening our Forestry Each year, we distribute booklets to children in the fifth year of cooperative structure to contribute to reducing food loss, Fisheries elementary school across Japan covering a variety of topics, including agricultural products and other perishable items. from food and farming education to environmental education to Initiative with SynaBiz and Partner Companies financial and economic education. We also distribute a universal edition for special education schools. Norinchukin Bank In fiscal 2019, approximately 1.31 million copies were distributed partner companies Introduction SynaBiz free of charge to 20,000 elementary schools nationwide. Inventory for disposal Purchase Purchases excess inventory Sold at low price on Otameshi Purchase Partial donation of purchase price Social service Web members Senior Elementary School organizations Donation Edition: Our Lives with Agriculture (Left), Universal General consumers Design Edition (Right) Norinchukin Bank Sustainability Report 2020 Contents Ⅰ Sustainability Management at the Norinchukin Bank Ⅱ New Initiatives from Fiscal 2020 Ⅲ Past Initiatives and Results 31 Alliance with the Japan Institute of Agricultural First Generation of Graduates: Management, Which Trains Next-Generation Farm Employed in Nakano City, Nagano Operators Mr. Hiroki Abe The Japan Institute of Agricultural Management (JAIAM) was Post-graduation agricultural employment status After graduating, I began working in plum management in Nakano City, Nagano, which established in 2013 with the Norinchukin Bank as its main sponsor As of April 1, 2020 is where my family lives. When I took my and in cooperation with member companies. The institute seeks No. farming job, new plum varieties cultivated Total No. to train next-generation farm operators and agricultural leaders Choosing by the Nagano Prefectural Agricultural graduates Choosing NonExperiment Station was a big topic of discussion. We secured a in local communities. Under its organizational philosophy of (86) Farming Farming farming field in the hope that this would lead to development in plum training farm operators, which is indispensable to Japan’s future management. On the sales side, we have been striving to diversify our At family agriculture, the JAIAM provides holistic education under the four 48 45 3 sales routes, with core sales from shipping to JA Nakano City, plus farms* themes of management capability, farming capability, social direct sales to customers, gifts for hometown tax payments, and so on. We also worked on creating shipping boxes, pamphlets, and office capability and humanity. At farming 26 12 14 documents, such as invoices. Looking ahead, we will keep coming up companies with initiatives that help us appeal to consumers about our self-produced Nakano City sourced products. There are many young farmers in Nakano Independent City who enjoy a life of fulfillment each day, exchanging information 9 0 9 farmers about cultivation, having personal relationships, and so on. In the future, I plan to integrate grape cultivation, a business run by my parents, and create a cultivation plan that looks at both plum and grape work. I still Other 3 1 2 have much to learn, but I will deal with each issue as it comes. *Family farms include those owned by grandparents, relatives Local Revitalization Support Utilizing Farmstays Regional Revitalization Through Farmstays, Promotion of Farming Areas and Agriculture We are promoting a farmstay venture meant to generate profit Farmstay Partnership Members in the sense that it creates hiring and income in rural areas. In March 2020, we signed a four-way partnership agreement JA Group Farmstay Organizations (Affiliated Business Associations) with JA Zen-Noh, Nokyo Tourist Corporation, and the Japan Countryside Stay Association. Through this agreement, we are working to realize regional revitalization through the establishment and promotion of the farmstay business. In addition to providing the JA Bank's financial functions (such as farmstay loans), the bank also offers partnership coordination Nokyo Tourist Japan Countryside Stay JA Zen-Noh via a broad trading infrastructure. Corporation Association Develops farmstay platform, Supports farmstay promotion Supports farmstay promotion Supports farmstay promotion supports farmstay promotion using rural networks, farmstay leveraging relations with leveraging farmstay organization for JAs leveraging economic consulting function domestic and foreign companies, networks, private accommodation business infrastructure JA Bank infrastructure expertise, etc. Norinchukin Bank Sustainability Report 2020 Contents Ⅰ Sustainability Management at the Norinchukin Bank Ⅱ New Initiatives from Fiscal 2020 Ⅲ Past Initiatives and Results 32 Conserving the Natural Environment as a Foundation Initiative to Reduce Waste in Lounge Rooms Donation of Credits (Excess CO2 Reductions) to Tokyo of the Agriculture, Fishery and Forestry Industries In October 2019, we introduced biodegradable plastic straws The Tokyo Metropolitan Government is aiming to become Zero Energy-saving and resource-saving initiatives in lounge rooms that provide drinks to visitors and staff. Since Emission Tokyo, a sustainable city without CO2 emissions. the head office used around 130,000 plastic straws annually, In support of this initiative, we donated 3,150 tons of credits* to When the Act on the Rational Use of Energy (Energy switching to biodegradable plastic straws contributes to the Tokyo, our portion of excess reduction in CO2 emissions under Conservation Act) was revised, the Norinchukin Bank newly serious global issue of reducing plastic waste. the Tokyo Cap-and-Trade Program. established an energy management structure and implemented In addition, employees are encouraged to bring their own drink * The Tokyo Cap-and-Trade Program is a system established under the Tokyo the visualization of organization-wide energy usage. By tumblers when using lounges. This contributes to a reduction in Metropolitan Government's Environmental Security Ordinance that imposes CO2 emissions reduction requirements on large-scale facilities (facilities that consume promoting initiatives such as adopting energy efficient features at paper and plastic waste, including lids and straws. more than the equivalent of 1,500kL in crude oil per year averaged over three the time of facility updates and disseminating a Cool Biz campaign, consecutive fiscal years). Facilities succeeding in reducing more CO2 than their requirements may convert these into credits. we continue efforts to prevent global warming. We also continue efforts to save resources such as shifting to ♬ Let's pitch in paperless methods. for the SDGs with Initiative to Reduce Food Loss at Cafeteria Facilities The bank will continue to address the Energy Conservation biodegradable straws! ♬ Plant-derived resins are The Act on Promotion of Food Loss and Waste Reduction came Act and each prefecture’s ordinances and other regulations used in into effect in October 2019, and JAs across the country are appropriately, and engage in ongoing energy and resourcebiodegradable plastic straws. working to reduce food loss. We are also engaged in similar saving efforts. initiatives. Since April 2020, we have been reducing food loss These materials Energy （kl） consumption (crude oil equivalent) over time have the same by improving the accuracy of our user count forecasts and functionality as rethinking less popular menu options at the cafeteria in our （kl） 20,000 conventional 20,000 16,150 plastic straws, Akishima Center (Akishima City, Tokyo). A portion of generated 15,205 14,449 plus 100% 15,000 13,673 15,205 16,150 14,449 12,291 biodegradability (the ability food waste is recycled as compost through an external 15,000 13,673 to be decomposed into 12,291 water and carbon dioxide by contractor rather than being disposed of as regular garbage. 10,000 microorganisms). 10,000 5,000 © Yorizo (JA Bank Mascot) 5,000 0 0 2015 2016 2017 2018 2019 （FY） 2015 2016 2017 2018 2019 （FY） Volume of paper waste over time (head office) （t） （t） 250 250 211 200 211 169 200 169 154 153 150 144 154 153 144 150 100 100 50 50 0 0 2015 2016 2017 2018 2019 （FY） 2015 2016 2017 2018 2019 （FY） Norinchukin Bank Sustainability Report 2020 Contents Ⅰ Sustainability Management at the Norinchukin Bank Ⅱ New Initiatives from Fiscal 2020 Ⅲ Past Initiatives and Results 33 Creating Business Innovation AgVenture Lab: A hub for Open Innovation AgVenture Lab Initiative Areas In May 2019, the JA Group established AgVenture Lab, an innovation laboratory, in Otemachi, Tokyo. AgVenture Lab is based on the concept of cultivating the next generation of agriculture, closely supporting daily lives of local Evolution and Enhanced efficiency in lifestyle communities, and connecting places and people. banking support services At this lab, the various businesses of the JA Group connect with startups, partner companies, universities, government actors, and others who possess technology, ideas, and other assets. Evolution and efficiency in These players utilize a variety of knowledge and technologies agriculture, fishery and Regional to create new businesses, develop services, and resolve social forestry revitalization issues. On the hard side, we have set up coworking spaces for Ensuring food Local safety and innorejuvenation startups. On the soft side, we also work to accelerate innovation vating in the value chain based on the JA Accelerator Program which seeks to generate new business models, soliciting business plans from startups and other companies and leveraging the JA Group's strengths. In May 2019, we held a business plan contest to select FY2019 JA Accelerator Participating Companies companies that would participate in the JA Accelerator <Business Plan Contest Award for Excellence> Program. In this contest, seven companies passed the selection Develops, manufactures, and sells Skeepon, a material harnessing the power of acetic acid to protect plants from Ac-Planta Inc. process. environmental stresses The program adopts the key phrase of innovation of food, AgroDesign Studio Inc. Researches and develops new pesticides (new pesticide pipeline type) agriculture and life, and covers the wide range of businesses inaho Co., Ltd. Deploys a Robot-as-a-Service subscription model for automated crop harvesting robots operated by the JA Group. It solicits business plans not only ACMS Consortium Develops/sells an innovative fish counting system for tuna farming in FinTech but also AgTech, FoodTech, LifeTech, and others, leveraging the JA Group's strengths (e.g. physical storefronts OsidOri.Inc Develops/provides a household management application for dual-income couples and other infrastructure, its customer networks) in an attempt Generates local fans (affiliates) through labor matching between students in metropolitan areas and farmers suffering from Otetsutabi Co., Ltd. to generate new business models. labor shortages MiRaY School inc. Provides agricultural experience programs for parents and children through Gifte!, an experience-based learning business <Business Plan Contest Special Award> Companies granted the right to use the AgVenture Lab Sunshine Delight Sells sunscreen products and educational materials to kindergartens and preschools for protecting children from UV Norinchukin Bank Sustainability Report 2020 Contents Ⅰ Sustainability Management at the Norinchukin Bank Ⅱ New Initiatives from Fiscal 2020 Ⅲ Past Initiatives and Results 34 Focus Area 2 Promoting Responsible Finance food and local communities In this focus area, the bank provides sustainability-conscious, responsible investments and loans and strives to develop and maintain financial services nationwide that are fundamental to the agriculture, fishery, and forestry industries. In addition, we conduct business activities aiming for sustainable energy utilization. Topics Medium-Term Goals We contribute to realizing a sustainable society through responsible investments and loans that provide consideration for Topic 2-1 Promote sustainable finance environmental, social, and governance aspects. Topic 2-2 Contribute to sustainable energy utilization We contribute to promoting sustainable energy utilization. We contribute to realizing a society where everyone, including residents in Japan’s underpopulated areas and the economically Topic 2-3 Realize financing for everybody vulnerable, have wide access to financial services. Major Initiatives Related SDGs ⃝ Practice responsible investment and lending for the resolution of environmental and social issues ⃝ Provide financial services assuming the expansion of demand for renewable energy ⃝ Improve financial access in each and every location throughout Japan using a variety of channels, including mobile branch vehicles and internet banking Norinchukin Bank Sustainability Report 2020 Contents Ⅰ Sustainability Management at the Norinchukin Bank Ⅱ New Initiatives from Fiscal 2020 Ⅲ Past Initiatives and Results 35 Investment and Financing Sector Policy Project Category Definition Promoting Sustainable Finance See page 21 for details. Category Definition Basic Policy on Finance Projects with potential significant adverse Initiatives for the Equator Principles A environmental and social risks and/or impacts In addition to the fundamental mission stated in Article 1 that are diverse, irreversible, or unprecedented of the Norinchukin Bank Act, the bank has another mission: The Equator Principles is an assessment framework used Projects with potential limited adverse to contribute to the prosperity of the agriculture, fishery, by private financial institutions when financing large-scale environmental and social risks and/or impacts B that are few in number, generally site-specific, forestry, and related industries, as well as to the revitalization development projects. This framework is used to assess largely reversible, and readily addressed through of local communities as a dedicated financial institution for the whether the development project pays the appropriate mitigation measures agriculture, fishery and forestry industries. attention to the natural environment and local communities. Projects with minimal or no adverse As the basic principles for fulfilling these missions, we It is widely used in the project finance field as a method to C environmental and social risks and/or impacts have formulated the Basic policy on FinanceBasic Policy for identify, evaluate, and manage environmental and social Investment and Loans. risks. With strong recognition of our public nature and social Based on the increasing public awareness of environmental responsibility as an important part of Japan’s financial and social issues and society’s expectations of financial system, we have formulated this fundamental policy from the institutions, we adopted the Equator Principles in May 2017 perspective of compliance, and based on our Code of Ethics, from the viewpoint of realizing a higher level of consideration Basic Policies for Risk Management, and the Environmental toward the upkeep of a sustainable environment. Policy and Human Rights Policy, which serve as guidelines for Specifically, based on the Basic policy on Finance, we have realizing sustainability management. formulated both the Basic Policy Regarding the Equator he Norinchukin Bank recognizes that it has an important social Principles and the Administration Guidelines for the Equator responsibility to conduct business operations adhering to the Principles. A dedicated staff member has been assigned to Basic policy on Finance. determine conformity with these principles, and we continue to request that customers address environmental and social Development of Sound Investments and Loans considerations at the required level according to their project category. The Norinchukin Bank conducts sincere and fair investments and loans in compliance with social codes, fully understanding its fundamental mission and role. To this end, the bank is dedicated to conducting sound business operation with a focus on accountability, not only at the time of investments and loans, but also thereafter. In addition, the Compliance Manual clarifies, as the code of conduct for directors and employees, that they must always keep in mind the soundness of operations even amidst their enthusiastic execution of business and should not set excessive plans and performance goals for investments, loans, and other businesses. Norinchukin Bank Sustainability Report 2020 Contents Ⅰ Sustainability Management at the Norinchukin Bank Ⅱ New Initiatives from Fiscal 2020 Ⅲ Past Initiatives and Results 36 Investment in the World Bank's Sustainable Contributing to Sustainable Energy Utilization Development Bonds The Norinchukin Bank is in agreement with the World Bank's Providing Financial Services Assuming the Expansion Project Finance Examples (official name: International Bank for Reconstruction and of Demand for Renewable Energy Development, or IBRD) efforts to promote measures against the Domestic Renewable Energy Projects global issue of food loss, and we have invested US$1.15 billion in For details on our efforts related to renewable energy, please Financing solar projects Total lending: ¥128.1 billion Sustainable Development Bonds issued by the World Bank. This refer to project finance examples and JA Bank initiatives (page We are continuing to provide financing for solar power investment not only solves a variety of issues, such as food loss 20). station projects in Japan. in developing countries, but also contributes to taking action against climate change by reducing greenhouse gas emissions. Worldwide Action in Project Finance In addition, we believe that it will contribute to securing stable profits through internationally diversified investment, and that it In our investment business, we are fully engaged in project will be in line with our philosophy of Sustainability Management. finance. Unlike corporate finance, which provides loans according to the creditworthiness of the corporation receiving Water-Related Projects Development of and Investment in ESG-themed the loan, project finance targets a specific business/project J-REIT Investment Vehicles and then evaluates its profitability before making a loan. Financing desalination and sewage treatment projects Total lending: ¥110.7 billion The Norinchukin Bank and Norinchukin Zenkyoren Asset We provide financing for water treatment projects (e.g. power Management Co., Ltd. (hereafter NZAM) have jointly developed generation, seawater desalination, sewage treatment) in investment vehicles specialized in J-REITs*1 and leveraging the Australia and the Middle East. GRESB*2 real estate benchmark in its stock selection process. We invested ¥10 billion into these vehicles. These vehicles not only carry strong evaluations of J-REITs that proactively work in consideration of the environment, health, comfort, and other items, but also contribute to the spread of green buildings and, in turn, contribute to action against climate change through Overseas Renewable Energy Projects reducing greenhouse gas emissions. In the future, we are Financing offshore wind and other projects considering increasing this investment depending on market Total lending: ¥408.0 billion conditions. Also, through NZAM, we will strive to increase We provide financing for offshore wind and undersea power penetration of institutional and individual investors. transmission lines in the United Kingdom and Continental *1 GRESB: Formerly the Global Real Estate Sustainability Benchmark, Europe, as well as renewable energy projects in the United this global-standard annual benchmark evaluation measures environmental, social, States and the Middle East. and governance (ESG) consideration in the real estate sector. Founded in 2009 in Europe with a focus on major European pension funds, it currently has participants from primarily European and American, but also global, institutional investors. NZAM was the third Japanese investor member company to join. *2 J-REIT: Short for Japan Real Estate Investment Trust, a J-REIT is a financial instrument taking funds collected from investors and purchasing office buildings, commercial facilities, condominiums, logistics facilities, and other real estate, and distributing leasing income and sale profit to investors. A real estate investment trust may be bought and sold like ordinary equity and other financial instruments. Lending amounts are as of March 31, 2020 Norinchukin Bank Sustainability Report 2020 Contents Ⅰ Sustainability Management at the Norinchukin Bank Ⅱ New Initiatives from Fiscal 2020 Ⅲ Past Initiatives and Results 37 The JA Bank App Topics Realizing Financing for Everybody JA Bank offers the JA Bank App application service to individual customers. The JA Bank App allows users to check their JA Improving Financial Access in Each and Every Location Mobile branches offer consultation functions in Bank account balances and deposit/withdrawal history on Throughout Japan Using a Variety of Channels areas hit by typhoons in 2019 their smartphones. Customers with JA Bank cash cards can JA Miyagi Sennan took flood damage during Typhoon No. 19 of immediately use this service without visiting a branch thanks to The Norinchukin Bank aims to realize financing for everybody in 2019; mobile branches owned by JAs in neighboring prefectures an easy first-time registration process. order to promote responsible finance. were dispatched to assist. In the Marumori area, which was This app gives users convenient access to JA Bank services even severely damaged by flooding, even terminal equipment was when they are too busy or otherwise cannot visit a branch. Promoting the implementation of mobile branches unusable from water damage. Further, in order to support Maintaining financial services has become an issue in members who had lost the ability to travel long distances due mountainous regions facing ongoing depopulation. JA to losing cars to flood waters and other issues, JA Miyagi Sennan was able to set up a daily rotating schedule of temporary Bank is promoting the implementation of mobile branches financial consultation windows at nine locations within former equipped with financial and ATM services for all JAs JA facilities. This was thanks to support from JA Yamagata and nationwide (as of the end of fiscal 2019, 92 units have been JA Shin-Iwate, which dispatched mobile branches to the site. deployed). The local JA was able to provide the necessary daily financial Mobile branches allow users to deposit and withdraw services to its members, like quick deposits and withdrawals, ordinary savings and update passbook entries. In addition to payment of taxes, and more. bank transfers and payment of taxes and utility bills, users In the cooperative organizational spirit of mutual assistance, JA Group colleagues worked together to aid in reconstruction of can also use consulting services about public pension benefit disaster areas and support of users in those locations. receipt, mutual insurance, and more. These mobile branches are gaining greater recognition as the nearest financial institution in regions without a nearby consultation branch or ATM. These nationally-deployed mobile branches normally serve as a lifeline for rural and depopulated areas, and can also be utilized in times of disaster, offering financial services to affected areas. Mobile branch sent from JA Yamagata to JA Miyagi Sennan Norinchukin Bank Sustainability Report 2020 Contents Ⅰ Sustainability Management at the Norinchukin Bank Ⅱ New Initiatives from Fiscal 2020 Ⅲ Past Initiatives and Results 38 Focus Area 3 Promoting sustainability management In this focus area, the Norinchukin Bank strives to ensure environmental and social sustainability through business activities under highly objective and transparent business administration systems. In addition to implementing high-level information disclosure, the Bank is constantly reviewing and improving its sustainability management by regularly exchanging opinions with stakeholders and experts. Topics Medium-Term Goals Topic 3-1 Ensure a transparent organizational governing structure We engage in ceaseless efforts toward realizing highly objective and transparent business administration systems. Reinforce the management of environmental and social We continually identify material sustainability topics based on social conditions and the voice of our stakeholders as well as Topic 3-2 risks review risks and business opportunities. We also conduct high-level information disclosure. We continually engage in dialogues with stakeholders, reflecting their opinions in business creation and social contribution Topic 3-3 Reinforce stakeholder engagement activities that are unique to the Bank. Major Initiatives Related SDGs ⃝ Engage in dialogue with sustainability experts ⃝ Exchange opinions on sustainability with stakeholders ⃝ Enhance alliances with cooperative organizations, such as national-level cooperatives Norinchukin Bank Sustainability Report 2020 Contents Ⅰ Sustainability Management at the Norinchukin Bank Ⅱ New Initiatives from Fiscal 2020 Ⅲ Past Initiatives and Results 39 Ensuring a Transparent Organizational Governing risks and carry out integrated risk management that manages Dialogue With Experts Structure risks and compares risks to our financial strength. In February 2019, we held a dialogue session attended by three Management System sustainability experts and bank directors and employees. Each of the three experts delivered a lecture on a different Our decision-making is split and coordinated between the topic. Mr. Takejiro Sueyoshi, Special Advisor to the United Norinchukin Bank Act-stipulated Supervisory Committee and Nations Environment Programme Finance Initiative, spoke on the board of directors, while remaining in compliance with Reinforcing Stakeholder Engagement trends in ESG investment. Ms. Kaori Kuroda, Co-Chair of the decisions by the Council of Delegates. Japan Civil Society Network on SDGs, spoke on how to deal The Supervisory Committee decides important matters Norinchukin Bank Stakeholders with human rights issues. Dr. Norichika Kanie, Professor of the concerning cooperative organizations, as well as items to Graduate School of Media and Governance at Keio University, submit/report to the Council of Delegates. This committee ⃝M  embers: Japan Agricultural Cooperatives (JA), Japan spoke on how to deal with the SDGs. The exchange of opinions also holds supervisory authority related to director business Fishery Cooperatives (JF), Japan Forestry Cooperatives was centered on initiatives expected of the bank. execution, and is allowed to request explanations from (JForest), etc. Their valued opinions have been utilized in studying a variety of directors, request to the Council of Delegates that directors ⃝M  embers of JA, JF, and others (those engaged in the policies, and can be seen in the November 2019 formulation of be dismissed, and take other such actions. The board of agriculture, fishery and forestry industries), partner the Bank's Environmental Policy and Human Rights Policy. directors makes decisions on business execution, excluding companies in deposits, savings, and loans (e.g. Please see page 11 for details on the 2020 expert dialogue those matters determined by the Supervisory Committee, and companies affiliated with the agriculture, fishery, and session. conducts mutual oversight of director business execution. forestry industries) ⃝ Members of local communities Strengthening Internal Control ⃝B  usiness partners covering all operations: financial institutions, market participants, subcontractors, and In order to fulfill its fundamental mission and social more responsibility, the Norinchukin Bank considers the establishment ⃝G  overnment entities of a business management system as a top priority issue. As ⃝S  taff such, in order to ensure compliance with corporate ethics, laws, and regulations, as well as ensure appropriate risk management and appropriateness in business execution, we have established The trust relationships with these stakeholders (those who have basic policies for internal control. interest in the bank) who are closely related to our management and day-to-day business activities were not built overnight, but Risk Management steadily over our long history since we were established. These trust relationships are important assets for the Using the Basic Policies for Risk Management, which define risk Norinchukin Bank, and it is important to maintain and build even types as well as management systems/methods, we assess stronger trust relationships going forward so that we can fulfill risks faced in business operation for materiality, identifies risks our fundamental mission and social responsibility. under scope of management, and manages each risk according To that end, we will continue to make efforts to build a highly Pictured: 2019 expert dialogue session to their particular characteristics. Further, the Bank uses transparent organizational culture by emphasizing disclosure quantification methods to comprehensively understand these and accountability to our stakeholders. Norinchukin Bank Sustainability Report 2020 Contents Ⅰ Sustainability Management at the Norinchukin Bank Ⅱ New Initiatives from Fiscal 2020 Ⅲ Past Initiatives and Results 40 Initiatives in Sustainable Finance Alliances with Cooperative Organizations 数字で見る日本の協同組合 Through dialogue with investees and borrowers, we will A cooperative organization is one established under the slogan support their sustainability efforts and create business of one for all, and all for one, rooting themselves in local   組合員数  opportunities. communities and promoting mutual assistance between people 延べ For details on ESG Integration, please see pages 18 and 21. For to stabilize their lifestyles, and playing the role of a revitalizing 億 万人超 （複数の協同組合に加入している場合は重複して計上しています） more on Sustainability Linked Loans, please see page 19. force in that local community. 医療・福祉生協 （％） その他の生協 （％） The Bank is a member of the International Co-operative Alliance 農協 森林組合  (ICA), a global coalition of 312cooperative organizations from 共済生協 （％） （％）  109 countries. These cooperatives are based in a variety of （％）  漁協 （％） 労働金庫  （％） （％） fields, from agriculture, to fishery, to forestry, to co-ops. 購買生協 信用金庫  中小企業組合 Also, in 2013, the National Council to Commemorate IYC (the （％） （％） （％） International Year of Cooperatives) was formed in Japan; in 単位：万人 注：括弧内は組合員数 信用組合 （％） 全体に占める構成比。 労働者協同組合 （％） July 2019, the Japan Co-operative Alliance took on the mantle of that council. The Norinchukin Bank is a participant in the JCA,  常勤役職員数   promoting cooperation with other cooperative organizations. Cooperative Organizations and the SDGs  万人   Cooperative organizations tackle issues such as poverty and 事業全体  施設  hunger, and are positioned as one important set of stakeholders 協同組合が生み出す 組合員が利用できる for achieving the SDGs. The ICA also encourages cooperatives 付加価値額 協同組合の施設数 around the world to combine forces and work to achieve the 兆千億円  万  千か所 注：付加価値額＝売上高－費用総額＋給与総額＋租税公課  SDGs. In Japan, the government explicitly mentions cooperative 購買事業  購買事業  organizations in its SDGs Implementation Guiding Principles. 協同組合の 協同組合の農林水産業 In this way, there are great expectations at home and abroad 食料品・生活用品供給高 生産資材供給高 for the role that cooperative organizations play in achieving the ４兆円  兆円 SDGs. 販売事業  共済事業  国内農林漁業産出額の 国内保障市場における 半分超が 協同組合のシェア 協同組合を通じて出荷・販売 ％ 信用事業  信用事業  国内の預貯金額の 協同組合の ％が 貸出金額 協同組合へ預けられています  ４ 兆円 一般社団法人 日本協同組合連携機構（ＪＣＡ） KWWSVZZZMDSDQFRRS  Excerpt from JCA Website Norinchukin Bank Sustainability Report 2020 Contents Ⅰ Sustainability Management at the Norinchukin Bank Ⅱ New Initiatives from Fiscal 2020 Ⅲ Past Initiatives and Results 41 Focus Area 4 Securing Highly Capable Human Resources In this focus area, to ensure the growth and sustainability of the agriculture, fishery and forestry industries, the Norinchukin Bank trains high-quality human resources with both local and global perspectives. Moreover, at worksites, we ensure diversity and creates a corporate culture where diverse human resources can perform to their fullest potential, striving to improve its organization-wide creativity and innovative capabilities. Topics Medium-Term Goals We engage in initiatives to create an inclusive and diverse work environment where women, people with disabilities, and Topic 4-1 Improve diversity and equal opportunities middle-aged to older workers can perform to their fullest potential. Also, we utilize and/or employ highly capable external human resources. We develop human resources capable of demonstrating their strengths in a self-starting fashion and taking on challenges Topic 4-2 Enhance human resources development boldly from the viewpoint of cooperatives and from a global perspective. Major Initiatives Related SDGs ⃝ C reate a work environment where diverse human resources including women, people with disabilities and older workers can perform to their fullest potential ⃝ Efforts to cultivate human resources targeted at employees ⃝ Efforts to nurture a sense of sustainability among employees Norinchukin Bank Sustainability Report 2020 Contents Ⅰ Sustainability Management at the Norinchukin Bank Ⅱ New Initiatives from Fiscal 2020 Ⅲ Past Initiatives and Results 42 Communication Between Management and Staff Anti-Harassment Measures Improving Diversity and Equal Opportunities For the purpose of fostering employee engagement, the We are engaged in a variety of activities to prevent harassment Basic Principles Norinchukin Bank conducts director seminars as an opportunity at the workplace, including sexual harassment, power Basic Policy on Human Resource Management for employees to talk with directors. Specifically in these harassment, and harassment on the basis of pregnancy, seminars, we set up forums for open discussion with directors, childbirth, and childcare and nursing care leave. These activities whom they would otherwise have limited opportunities to include providing e-learning and position-by-position education, Basic Policy interact with, to exchange opinions, share thoughts from dayguidance and consultation by managers and staff charged ⃝F  orm a group of capable, motivated human resources to-day work with management, and get a more intimate sense with human rights responsibilities at each branch, and external capable of catching the winds of change in the business of where management stands. In this way, we are working to contacts for consultation. environment and executing new business strategies deepen bidirectional communication. We have established and operate a harassment hotline that ⃝N  urture high employee satisfaction by helping each employee to understand the strategies and goals of the offers private consultations with employees. We are working to bank and its cooperative group, as well as helping them Employee Satisfaction Survey ensure broad awareness that employees can quickly access the to grow through tenacious engagement in their business harassment hotline whenever they need to. Further, we strive duties with self-motivated passion for contributing and The Bank conducts a staff awareness survey for all employees to protect the privacy of the persons concerned and to take tackling challenges once a year. The employee awareness visualized using this prompt action. survey is used as a basis for impactful measures as we seek to improve employee satisfaction and organizational vitality. Future Vision ⃝D  evelop essential human resources and cultivate employee engagement to realize our mission of becoming a leading bank that supports the agriculture, fishery and forestry industries, food production and consumption, and the daily lives of local communities In line with this basic policy, our efforts are focused on the planning and management of personnel systems, including performance and competency assessment systems, as well as on personnel development. In interviews between superiors and subordinates, goals are set and achievements are verified. Further, employee competencies demonstrated in a variety of work-related situations are reviewed. The repetition of this process allows us to promote employee awareness and effort toward contributing to performance and developing their own talents. We also offer support for these efforts with extensive training options. Based on this system, we are building a structure to provide fair wages to each employee. Norinchukin Bank Sustainability Report 2020 Contents Ⅰ Sustainability Management at the Norinchukin Bank Ⅱ New Initiatives from Fiscal 2020 Ⅲ Past Initiatives and Results 43 Initiatives for Hiring People with Disabilities Supporting the Success of Senior Talent Results of Workstyle Reforms FY2017 FY2018 FY2019 The Norinchukin Bank strives to make a workplace where To support the success of senior talent, the bank offers career people with disabilities can carry out their duties in a vibrant design training for understanding of self, understanding of Actual Work Hours 1,931 1,882 1,854 manner, with a sense of fulfillment and security. environmental changes, and consideration of their personal and professional lives with a view on a post-retirement second Average Overtime Hours As an effort to this end, we established Norinchukin Business career. All Employees 15.1 11.6 11.0 Assist Co., Ltd., an organization mainly engaging in financeIn addition, we have introduced a senior staff system, a meister related administrative work outsourced by the bank and group system (a system for training skilled laborers), and more as Career Track 22.2 15.2 14.6 companies companies to expand the employment of people options for them to continue to play an active role in our with disabilities. organization in the form of re-employment after retirement. Regional 8.6 7.0 6.7 Norinchukin Business Assist Co., Ltd.'s management philosophy is to assist each director and employee in working with Initiatives for Workstyle Reform Rate of Paid Leave Taken 61.9% 71.9% 72.7% earnestness and integrity so that they can develop their abilities and strive for self-realization through their work, and to create The Norinchukin Bank has for some time operated a flexible a workplace where directors and employees can always feel work hour system designed to contribute to the diversification a sense of security and fulfillment in their work, valuing the of employee workstyles and the improvement of productivity. consideration and communication of all individuals and enabling Major Workstyle Reform Systems them to carry out their duties in a vibrant manner. Since fiscal 2019, as part of efforts toward workstyle reform, ⃝ Half-day paid leave acquisition system To offer a pleasant working environment, offices are designed we have newly introduced a telecommuting system, as well as →System allowing annual paid leave to be taken in halfto provide bright and spacious room for working comfortably, full-scale work interval systems and staggered shift systems. day units while providing single-occupancy relaxation spaces and a break A work interval system is a health issue prevention measure ⃝ Work interval system room where people can lie down. stipulating that certain intervals be ensured between the end of →System requiring a certain time interval between the work on the previous day and the start of work on the following end of a day's work and the beginning of the next shift day. A staggered shift system allows employees to select their ⃝ Telecommuting system own start and end work times. This focused work improves →System allowing employees to work from home, in productivity, streamlines working hours, and raises employee shared offices, or other locations for the purpose of awareness. improving work productivity Further, a telecommuting system allows employees to work ⃝ Flexible work hour system from home, shared offices, or other locations, in line with →System allowing employees agreeing to fall under the diversification of workplaces. system to work in a manner that is not constrained by prescribed start/end work times Norinchukin Bank Sustainability Report 2020 Contents Ⅰ Sustainability Management at the Norinchukin Bank Ⅱ New Initiatives from Fiscal 2020 Ⅲ Past Initiatives and Results 44 Initiatives Supporting the Raising of Next-Generation Action Plan for the Act on the Promotion of Female We also provide a number of support Children and Promoting the Active Participation of Participation and Career Advancement in the Workplace options for childcare, such as offering preand the Act on Advancement of Measures to Support return interviews to employees who have Women Raising Next-Generation Children (FY2016-FY2018) taken pregnancy and/or childcare leave so The Norinchukin Bank is working to support work-life balances Target 1 that they can smoothly return to work. Kurumin Certified and the ability to both raise a child and have a career. We are Share of women in career-track new graduate hires: 20% also encouraging male employees to take parental leave. In →Target met addition to these measures and our efforts to increase the Target 2 rate of women among new graduate hires, we are helping to Rate of parental leave taken by men: 20% Marriage Pregnancy Childbirth Childcare Nursing build a network among female employees by holding Women →Target met Employee Career Forums. Prenatal/Postnatal Leave Childcare Leave (Pre: 6 weeks, (Can be extended to In order to promote the active participation of female Action Plan for the Act on the Promotion of Female post: 8 weeks) age 2 if no daycare employees based on the Act on the Promotion of Female Participation and Career Advancement in the Workplace available) Nursing Leave Participation and Career Advancement in the Workplace and and the Act on Advancement of Measures to Support Programs for Employees on Pregnancy/ (Max. 1 year) Raising Next-Generation Children (FY2019-FY2021) Childcare Leave the Act on Advancement of Measures to Support Raising Next(Web courses, workplace information, etc.) Nursing Leave Distribution of Handbooks for Female Staff/Managers Generation Children, we have established a General Employers Target 1 (5 business days) Action Plan and are making efforts in this area. Our first action Share of women in career-track/specified role new graduate Short-term (Paid) Parental Leave plan from 2016 has completed and been succeeded by a new hires: 20% (10 business days) Honeymoon plan launched in April 2019. Target 2 Leave Special Leave (Meals for hospital visits/treatments: During pregnancy and up to age 1) (Max. 5 days) The Bank will continue to make multifaceted efforts to enhance Implement, entrench various measures to promote workstyle Relaxed Shortened Work Hours During Childcare Reduced the vitality of the organization and to create a work environment reforms Commuting (Until end of first year of elementary school) Work Hours Measures in which diverse employees can fully demonstrate their abilities Limited Late Limited Overtime/Late Night Work Limited and individuality, as well as remain active over a long period. Overtime/Late Night Work (Until end of first year of elementary school) Night Work Childcare Support Nursing Leave Results of Promotion of Active Participation of Women (Until end of first year of elementary school: 5 business days) In order to enhance our work-family balance support system, Childcare Time FY2017 FY2018 FY2019 (Until age 1) we have implemented a variety of systems to support Ratio of Women Hired employee childcare. Childcare Assistance System (Discounts for babysitters/childcare facilities) Specifically, we have up systems for employees to take special Career Track 22% 25% 26% leave for pregnancy and childbirth, as well as childcare leave Specified Roles 56% 60% 100% systems. We have also set up a short-term parental leave system so that male employees can support to childcare Regional 83% 82% 75% further. In addition, we have developed services that let Share of Women Employees 33.2% 33.9% 34.2% employees access online courses (e.g. return-to-work courses) and company intranet message boards. These services are part Share of Women Managers 5.1% 5.9% 6.2% of a program to provide information to employees who are on Share of Women Directors 0.0% 4.0% 4.7% pregnancy or childcare leave. Norinchukin Bank Sustainability Report 2020 Contents Ⅰ Sustainability Management at the Norinchukin Bank Ⅱ New Initiatives from Fiscal 2020 Ⅲ Past Initiatives and Results 45 Occupational Health and Safety Labor Relations The Norinchukin Bank engaged in developing working The Norinchukin Bank has an employee union as a counterpart environments where employees can perform their duties in organization to its management. In addition, this employee good health and with a sense of security. union employs a union shop system. As a general rule, all Our health management policy is formulated each year by employees become union members on joining the bank. its Occupational Hygiene Committee. This policy prescribes Our employee union has the authority to negotiate with measures to be taken to reinforce the management of the management on important matters such as the maintenance physical and mental health of employees and help promote and improvement of labor conditions for its members. Further, their health. surveys are conducted with members to aid in negotiation While ensuring that all employees take regular health checkups, with management, and forums have been established for we urge their families to take health checkups as well. offering various recommendations to management. For any According to the results of these checkups, health guidance changes in personnel and labor-related systems that would is provided by industrial doctors and medical staff. Efforts exert significant impact on the lives and workstyles of union are also being made to reduce working hours, considering the members, management is required to come to an agreement possible adverse impact of long hours of labor on employee with the employee union, whether through management health. committee, labor committee, or other negotiations. As part of its efforts to ensure mental health at the workplace, we advise self-care methods for employees, offer counseling and other consultation opportunities, and conduct positionby-position mental health education. In addition, we carry out stress checks, offer readily available self-checking functions and have the Mental Health Consultation Room in place to provide consultations as required at the medical office in the head office of the bank. To increase the health consciousness of employees and establish the practice of doing moderate exercise on a regular basis, we offer a wide range of educational programs and welfare services. Specifically, we subsidize sports club memberships and have health leaders lead health promotion activities. Norinchukin Bank Sustainability Report 2020 Contents Ⅰ Sustainability Management at the Norinchukin Bank Ⅱ New Initiatives from Fiscal 2020 Ⅲ Past Initiatives and Results 46 JA Shinnoren. Principal Human Resource Programs Enhancing Human Resources Development We are also deepening employee understanding of our Group Training fundamental mission by holding workshops led by specialists •C  areer development training: Foster an awareness of career Providing Opportunities to Develop Various Skills in the cooperative system and the agriculture, fishery and development by taking an inventory of employee abilities and through forestry industries. These are designed to develop human self-analysis For the development of employee careers, we deploy and resources who can play a role as employees of a cooperative •M  anagement training: Acquire and improve knowledge and business assigns the right personnel in the right job based on the organization. skills needed for management, including leadership, junior staff development, vision making, and work efficiency competency, aptitude, and career perspective of each person, •M  anagerial development training: Acquire and improve knowledge as well as supports self-fulfillment through work, by adopting Management-Level Employees required for organizational management, division and branch the Career Challenge Program (a job transfer application To raise the management capabilities of management-level management, etc. •T  he Norinchukin Bank Business School: Improve and deepen system) and the Career Change Program. In addition, the bank employees, we offer programs for study at European and understanding of basic business management theory and consulting is aggressively recruiting and employing highly competitive U.S. business schools, as well as personal coaching to help abilities, and build cross-departmental networks external human resources. managers to implement our management plan. Personal Development Support When recruiting and assigning employees, care is taken not to exercise any type of discrimination. Career Development Support System •F  inancial support for correspondence courses, gaining external certifications, and foreign language training: Support for employee selfWith the goal of training core personnel in each headquarters, To help employees proactively work on their own career directed career development by partially subsidizing various studies the bank is actively providing opportunities for them to develop development, the Bank has implemented the Career Outside Studies their skills in order to support the self-motivated efforts of Development Support System. Employees are able to take each and every employee. For example, in addition to subsidy inventory of their own abilities and clarify their goals thanks •G  raduate School of Business (managers program): Acquire advanced management skills at domestic and overseas universities programs for correspondence courses, certification exams, to our career development training and career development •O  verseas study: Acquire specialized knowledge and global viewpoints foreign language study, and sending employees to overseas interviews conducted with their superiors. After defining through attendance at an MBA or LL.M program study and cross-industry seminars, we hold after-work training their career goals, they are encouraged to carry out career •O  verseas branch trainee system: Foster global perspectives in lessfor each headquarters. We also hold after-work training, group development based on the job capability requirements of experienced staff by posting them at overseas branches •E  xchange personnel and acquire specialized knowledge by sending study, and other programs for employees based on their years employees in each headquarters. staff to cross-industry training, management companies, JA, and JA of service and/or rank. Shinnoren New Employee Training New Employees •W  orkplace training system for new employees, instructor training, In addition to the three-week entry training, new employees mentorship system are sent to JA and agricultural corporations so that they can •E  ntry training, on-site training at JA, on-site training at agricultural have diverse experience in Japan and overseas. The Bank corporations also provides on-the-job training and offers a mentoring Other system for each new employee. •A  fter-work training Young, Mid-Career and Manager-Level Employees •L  ectures by specialists from cooperatives, fostering of awareness as employees of the cooperative system through staff workshops For young, mid-career, and manager-level employees, we •B  usiness English language lessons help them develop their careers for further growth through •e  -Learning such measures as placing them in temporary posts at JA and Norinchukin Bank Sustainability Report 2020 Contents Ⅰ Sustainability Management at the Norinchukin Bank Ⅱ New Initiatives from Fiscal 2020 Ⅲ Past Initiatives and Results 47 Development and Skills Enhancement of Cooperative Human Resource Training Initiatives at JF Marine Bank Personnel Exchanges between the Bank, For JF Marine Bank, we are focused on developing the human JA, and JA Shinnoren Member Human Resources resources necessary to enhance the fishery financial function The Norinchukin Bank has enhanced personnel exchanges with In alliance with Norinchukin Academy Co., Ltd., a training by continuing its group trainings, such as the JF Marine Bank JA and JA Shinnoren, and has been working to achieve mutual specialist for cooperative members, the Norinchukin Bank is Training: Store Operation Course targeted at store managers of understanding and sharing of know-how within the JA Bank working to develop human resources that meet the trust and JF Shingyoren and the Fishery Industry Financial Consultants Group. expectations of individual members and customers, targeted Step-Up Seminar targeted at fishery industry financial Specifically, we accepts trainees from JA, educating them at the directors and employees of JA Bank, JF Marine Bank consultants, as well as offering Training for Improving Financial so that they can play a key role in the banking business and and JForest Group, by pursuing initiatives to (1) nurture and Statement Analysis Capability, Life Planning Training, and Sales gain wide-ranging business know-how. We also accept staff strengthen the power of Reform Leaders who promote the Skills Development Training with dispatched trainers. and trainees seconded from JA Shinnoren, who work in practice of prefectural and JA strategies and (2) promote various areas such as retail planning, administration, systems, the acquisition and enhancement of specialized skills and Supporting Human Resources Training agricultural and corporate loans, and securities investment. knowledge. at the JForest Group Moreover, we second staff to cooperative organizations (e.g., We support the JForest Group's organizational reform JA and JA Shinnoren) in order to deepen their understanding Strengthened Human Resource Training Initiatives to initiatives by helping to nurture human resources leading their of the actual work of cooperatives from the point of view of Achieve JA Bank Medium-Term Strategies organization. We do this through holding the Seminars for employees of the central organization for cooperatives and of a We continue to hold the JA Bank Central Academy – Managers JForest targeting top executives at JForest and JForest Moriren financial institution for farmers, fishermen, and foresters. Course targeted at directors in charge of JA's banking business, (Prefectural Federations of Forestry Cooperatives), as well as the Senior Executives Course targeted at senior managers JForest Cooperatives Counsellor Training aimed at personnel in charge of JA's banking business, the Seminar for JA holding the title of counsellor, who support the backbone of Presidents/Board Chairpersons targeted at JA presidents/board JForest’s practical management. chairpersons and the Block Symposium targeted at JA's branch managers and mid-career employees. Through these training courses designed to develop human resources who can lead the reform of JA and JA Shinnoren, we have supported the business reform of JA Bank. We are also engaged in the development of the human resources required to promote the measures of the JA Bank MediumTerm Strategies by offering training options allowing them to acquire specialized skills and financial knowledge, including group trainings, correspondence courses, and qualifying tests. Norinchukin Bank Sustainability Report 2020 Contents Ⅰ Sustainability Management at the Norinchukin Bank Ⅱ New Initiatives from Fiscal 2020 Ⅲ Past Initiatives and Results 48 Sustainability Workshop e-Learning Course e-Learning Example Questions When practicing sustainability management, it is important to In order to improve knowledge and foster awareness about Q: Of the following, which is incorrect regarding ESG foster employee awareness and mindfulness of sustainability. sustainability among directors and employees, we held an investment? In July 2019, Mr. Kenji Fuma, representative of Neural Inc., joined e-Learning course in November 2019 for all directors and us as a lecturer for a workshop held for all bank directors and employees themed on sustainability management. (1) The term ESG combines the first letters of the words employees and broadcast live to all bank locations, including The course consisted of ten questions ranging from basic environment, social, and governance. those overseas. This workshop's theme was The Agriculture, knowledge to recent trends and bank efforts, and was designed (2) ESG investment is investment placing importance on Fishery and Forestry Industries and Sustainability Management. for participants to deepen understanding through repeating the social contribution and environmental consideration, and Participants offered a variety of opinions, such as I came to course until reaching the criteria to pass. for that reason profitability may have to be compromised. recognize the reality that the agriculture, fishery, and forestry We plan to hold e-Learning courses annually in fiscal 2020 and (3) Though corporate value has traditionally been measured industries put a burden on the environment, and I would like to beyond. primarily using financial information such as cash flow think about initiatives that would be unique to the Norinchukin and profit margins, non-financial ESG factors are also Bank. important in evaluating a company's long-term value; Going forward, we plan to hold more workshops on therefore, we are seeing broader corporate valuation and sustainability with the aim of raising awareness among investment with a focus on ESG. directors and employees. (4) In Japan, interest has grown among institutional investors in non-financial information with the publishing of the Japanese edition of the Stewardship Code in February 2014. Further, in September 2015, GPIF, the world's largest institutional investor (asset owner) became a signatory to the PRI, making it clear that it treats ESG as important and jumpstarting this trend. Correct answer: (2) Explanation: E  SG investment is investment that increases long-term profits through social contribution and environmental consideration. Mr. Fuma delivers a lecture at the Sustainability Workshop Norinchukin Bank Sustainability Report 2020 Contents Ⅰ Sustainability Management at the Norinchukin Bank Ⅱ New Initiatives from Fiscal 2020 Ⅲ Past Initiatives and Results 49 Data on Human Resources Basic Human Resources Data Childcare/Nursing-Related Data FY2017 FY2018 FY2019 FY2017 FY2018 FY2019 No. of Employees 3,646 3,659 3,645 No. of Employees Taking Childcare Leave Men 2,436 2,417 2,398 Men 78 57 78 Women 1,210 1,242 1,247 Women 35 43 35 No. of Non-core Share of Employees Taking Childcare Leave 462 500 540 Employees Men*3 57% 51% 61% No. of New Graduate Hires 153 188 125 *4 Women 100% 100% 113% Men 78 97 64 Share of Employees Women 75 91 61 Returning After Childcare 100% 98% 97% Leave*5 No. of Mid-career Hires 54 27 34 Days of Nursing Leave 305.0 366.5 459.5 Men 42 22 29 Taken Women 12 5 5 Share of Employees Retained for 10 Consecutive Years of Service (%)*1 Men 84.7 85.9 82.5 *1 P  ercentage of employees hired 9 to 11 fiscal years ago who continue to work as of this report Women 58.4 57.8 57.2 *2 A  ggregate hiring ratio from the Norinchukin Bank, Group subsidiaries, and special subsidiaries *3 T  he number of employees taking childcare leave divided by the number of Employee Turnover Ratio 1% 2% 2% employees with spouses who gave birth (if leave and childbirth do not fall in the same fiscal year, these figures are counted toward the fiscal year where leave began) FY2017 FY2018 FY2019 *4 T  he number of employees taking childcare leave divided by the number of employees giving birth (if leave and childbirth do not fall in the same fiscal year, Share of Disabled Persons these figures are counted toward the fiscal year where leave began) 2.23 2.56 2.71 *5 P  ercentage of female employees who gave birth who continued to work (including Hired (%)*2 periods of childcare leave) until their child's first birthday Norinchukin Bank Sustainability Report 2020 Contents Ⅰ Sustainability Management at the Norinchukin Bank Ⅱ New Initiatives from Fiscal 2020 Ⅲ Past Initiatives and Results 50 Focus Area 5 Maintain Customer Trust as a Financial Institution As a financial institution whose business is founded first and foremost on trust and confidence, the Norinchukin Bank places a priority on ensuring that individual directors and employees conduct their business with a heightened sense of ethical responsibility. Amidst increased social interest in diverse workstyles, we strive to ensure compliance with laws and regulations. Topics Medium-Term Goals Striving to ensure compliance includes appropriate responses to laws and regulations, measures against money laundering, Topic 5-1 Further reinforce our compliance framework severing anti-social forces, and the enhancement of information security Major Initiatives Related SDGs ⃝ Ensure compliance ⃝ Protecte human rights Norinchukin Bank Sustainability Report 2020 Contents Ⅰ Sustainability Management at the Norinchukin Bank Ⅱ New Initiatives from Fiscal 2020 Ⅲ Past Initiatives and Results 51 Prohibiting Relations With Anti-Social Forces Definition of Sound Corporate Culture Further Reinforce our Compliance Framework 1. Respecting risk management while continuing to pursue The Norinchukin Bank has a zero-tolerance policy regarding approaches to new tasks and ensuring appropriate returns Further Reinforce our Compliance Framework anti-social forces, which threaten the safety and order of Individual directors and employees are expected to fulfill their civil society, and thoroughly prohibits relations therewith. basic roles for the bank and aggressively attempt new business to As a financial institution whose business is founded first We reinforce our organizational framework to systematically establish a stable profit structure that ensures organization-wide sustainability. Individual directors and employees are expected to and foremost on trust and confidence, the bank recognizes avoid transactions related to anti-social forces under unified fully recognize the risks they take on or that may arise, and always the importance of not only creating an effective compliance cooperation among front office (branches in charge of business be aware of the need to maintain a balance of returns, corporate framework, but also of continuing to improve effectiveness. transactions), middle offices (Management and Compliance strength, and risk. To fulfill our fundamental mission and social responsibility as Divisions), and back offices (Internal Audit division). well as prove ourselves worthy of customer and member trust 2. S  ecuring business transparency and acting with a and expectations in light of changes in the social and business Prevention of Unfair Use of Financial Institutions heightened awareness of responsibility environment, we continue our its unceasing efforts in the area Individual directors and employees are expected to act with of compliance by managing its business in accordance with We have a unified structure to prevent the unfair use of financial strict discipline and responsibility to achieve a higher degree of societal norms by fully complying with laws and regulations institutions, including business transactions with anti-social transparency and accountability through appropriate internal and based on the principle of total self-reliance. We also constantly forces, money laundering, and the financing of terrorism. external communication in order to serve the needs of society. endeavor to achieve a higher degree of transparency by We also take appropriate measures against the use of financial emphasizing proper disclosure and accountability. institutions for crimes such as the use of bank accounts to 3. R  especting diverse ideas through communication to In addition, we disseminate the Compliance Manual to all receive money generated by fraud or other crimes, contributing promote cooperation directors and employees to ensure that compliance awareness to the establishment of a safe and secure society. Individual directors and employees are expected to develop a work is high and practiced in all aspects of business. environment that encourages active, free communication as well as Fostering a Sound Corporate Culture respect for diverse ideas while promoting a sense of cooperation Provision of Compliance Seminars that enables all employees to fulfill their potential. To prevent large-scale scandals that may damage trust among We provide compliance seminars to all employees to raise customers and in financial markets, we strive to foster and 4. U  nderstanding the Norinchukin Bank sense of value and compliance awareness and promote ethical practices in ensconce a sound corporate culture as a part of our business management policy to execute business with a spirit of unity business activities. strategy. We have clearly defined desirable and sound corporate Individual directors and employees are expected to share our sense of value while directors and managers are expected to practice In fiscal 2019, we invited a specialist from the law firm in charge culture, and we have established the Code of Ethics and Code strong leadership in providing clear and easy-to-understand of our Compliance Hotline to reinforce employee understanding of Conduct to ensure the full awareness of all directors and communication to ensure that all employees fully understand of whistle-blower protection regarding our Compliance Hotline. employees and to ensure that all employees engage in legal and management policy. We continue to place the highest priority on whistle-blower ethical practices in every aspect of business. protection to ensure that all employees feel safe and secure in 5. D  eveloping a sound corporate culture as a part of corporate using the hotline whenever they recognize any issues relating governance to compliance. D irectors and managers are expected to take account of the business environment and employee awareness to develop a sound corporate culture based on an appropriate system for business performance evaluations and remuneration. Norinchukin Bank Sustainability Report 2020 Contents Ⅰ Sustainability Management at the Norinchukin Bank Ⅱ New Initiatives from Fiscal 2020 Ⅲ Past Initiatives and Results 52 Strict Information Management Respect for Human Rights Educational Activities to Heighten Awareness of Human Rights Directors and employees of the bank have access to records In the Code of Conduct, the Norinchukin Bank emphasizes respect Our business operations are supported by our stakeholders. It concerning customer assets, credit, privacy, and other for human rights and the building of a workplace that enables is important that all directors and employees of the bank have a sensitive information. Strict measures are in place to ensure employees to work with a sense of security. Discriminatory heightened sense of human rights with respect for the position that such customer information is not leaked by the relevant words and acts based on race, creed, gender, age, nationality, and personality of others. To fulfill our fundamental mission, persons while employed or after leaving. Extra care is taken to ethnic group, religion, social status, and physical features are each director and employee are expected to respect the ensure compliance with the rules and regulations to prevent unacceptable in or outside the workplace. All directors and position of individual stakeholders and treat all with sincerity, insider trading when significant but not yet announced facts employees of the bank are strictly prohibited from engaging in acquire deep insights and highly professional knowledge, and concerning listed or other important customers is obtained. such acts or using such language under any circumstances. behave as valued members of society. In addressing global human rights, we adhere to and respect Toward the establishment of a highly transparent organizational Protection of Personal Information international standards, including the Universal Declaration culture based on the concept of respect for human rights, we As a Business Operator Handling Personal Information and of Human Rights, the International Covenant on Economic, continue conducting educational activities on human rights Person in Charge of Processes Related to Individual Social Social and Cultural Rights, the International Covenant on in line with the policy decided by the board of directors after Security and Tax Numbers, the Norinchukin Bank has created Civil and Political Rights, the ILO Declaration on Fundamental discussion at the Human Rights Promotion Council. a framework to facilitate the proper handling of such material Principles and Rights at Work, and the UN Global Compact. We To prevent sexual or power harassment as well as harassment and provides education and training for employees to ensure also comply with the domestic laws of the nations in which on the basis of pregnancy, childbirth, and childor nursing compliance. we operate, and we prepare or update rules and regulations care leaves, we engage in a wide range of activities such on operations concerning human rights in the course of our as providing e-learning and position-by-position education, Environmental Policy, Human Rights Policy business activities. Recently, awareness of human rights is guidance and consultation by the persons in charge of human increasing not only within bank operations, but also throughout rights issues throughout the organization, and external contacts We established and released our Environmental Policy and the entire supply chain. While referring to the UN Guiding for consultation. Human Rights Policy on November 1, 2019. In accordance with Principles on Business and Human Rights, the bank will continue these policies, the bank continues to improve awareness and to address issues from various angles, including Compliance, action regarding environmental and human rights issues. with the UK Modern Slavery Act 2015. Response to UK Modern Slavery Act 2015 The UK Modern Slavery Act 2015 requires any commercial organization with a certain annual turnover to produce a statement detailing their approaches to the prevention of slavery, forced or compulsory labor, and human trafficking in their business and their supply chain. This important statement has been posted on our English website since September 2016. The statement stresses that acts of slavery, forced or compulsory labor, and human trafficking are contrary to the Bank’s mission and sets out our efforts to prevent such acts. Norinchukin Bank Sustainability Report 2020 Contents Ⅰ Sustainability Management at the Norinchukin Bank Ⅱ New Initiatives from Fiscal 2020 Ⅲ Past Initiatives and Results 53 Human Rights Seminars Human Rights Impact Assessment (HRIA) The Norinchukin Bank provides human rights seminars annually, The UN Guiding Principles on Business and Human Rights and all directors and employees at the bank are required to (UNGPs) endorsed by the UN Human Rights Council in 2011 participate in at least one. clarifies the corporate responsibility for human rights protection We invite specialists from a wide range of fields to present stating that business enterprises should carry out human rights seminars to enlighten and disseminate the concept of respect due diligence, avoid infringing on the human rights of others for human rights under broad themes. and address adverse human rights impacts with which they are In fiscal 2019, we provided 15 seminars, 14 of which were involved. delivered to all business sites via remote conference system. Based on this concept, we clearly state Human Rights Policy that we strengthen efforts to carry out human rights due diligence to prevent or reduce adverse human rights impacts that its financial services may have, and conducts human rights impact assessment by the entire organization and in business activities. We choose priority human rights issues and implement specific actions in order. Human Rights Impact Assessment Processes Creation of the List of Human Rights Issues List of Human Rights Issues (Examples) Discrimination Associated with Financial Products and Services Investment and Loans to Sectors with High Human Rights Risks In-house Personnel Interview Fraud, Bribery, and Corruption Privacy and Information Security Risk Level Business Feasibility Working Hours and Overtime Work Assessment Assessment Wages and Benefits Workplace Discrimination Identifying Priority Issues Workplace Harassment Freedom of Association and the Right of Collective Bargaining Forced or Compulsory Labor and Child Labor by Suppliers Specific Actions Access to Relief, etc. Norinchukin Bank Sustainability Report 2020 Contents Ⅰ Sustainability Management at the Norinchukin Bank Ⅱ New Initiatives from Fiscal 2020 Ⅲ Past Initiatives and Results 54 Respect for Customers JA Bank Consultation Service Center The Norinchukin Bank considers it important to provide JA Bank has internal rules and systems in place for the handling smooth access to necessary funds to customers engaging in of customer consultations and complaints in a swift, fair and the agriculture, fishery and forestry industries, and small and appropriate manner in consideration of financial ADR measures. medium-sized enterprises. To meet the needs of customers Customer consultations and complaints are accepted through through the provision of customer-oriented services, we the JA Bank Consultation Service Center, a fair and neutral thirdengage in ongoing efforts to enhance our functions and party organization, as well as the Consultation Service Centers services with careful attention to customer requests. at the Japan Agricultural Cooperatives (JA) and JA Shinnoren. As a provider of financial products and services, the bank With the consent of the customer, we urge the relevant JA or JA regards it as important to seriously consider customer Shinnoren to promptly resolve all issues. In addition, we address protection from the customer’s perspective and to provide areas of operation that might require improvement relative to information that helps customers make appropriate decisions. consultations and complaints we receive and take measures to In particular, when we help customers carry out transactions prevent recurrence by uniting the entire JA Bank organization. for financial products that require highly specialized knowledge, it is essential that we carefully explain contracts in easy-toJF Marine Bank Consultation Service Center understand language. For this purpose, we have established a wide range of committees and set rules and regulations for JF Marine Bank has internal rules and systems in place for the customer protection. handling of customer consultations and complaints in a swift, fair and appropriate manner in consideration of financial ADR Customer Consultations and Complaints measures. Customer consultations and complaints are accepted through Customer consultations and complaints are systematically the JF Marine Bank Consultation Service Center, a fair and handled by the relevant departments, and the relevant neutral third-party organization, as well as the Consultation departments communicate with and report to concerned Service Centers at the Japan Fishery Cooperatives (JF) and departments in accordance with the rules and regulations for JF Shingyoren. With the consent of the customer, we urge the customer support and related services that specify the use relevant JF or JF Shingyoren to promptly resolve all issues. of financial alternative dispute resolution (ADR) measures to In addition, we address areas of operation that may require resolve financial disputes out of court. improvement relative to consultations and complaints we The Consultation Service Center of the Bank publicizes the received and take measures to prevent recurrence by uniting the content of the consultations and complaints from customers via JF Marine Bank. our official website, etc. Norinchukin Bank Sustainability Report 2020 Contents Ⅰ Sustainability Management at the Norinchukin Bank Ⅱ New Initiatives from Fiscal 2020 Ⅲ Past Initiatives and Results 55 GRI Guideline Comparison Table GRI 102: General Disclosures 102-13 Membership of associations Sustainability Report 2020: P10 1. Organizational profile 2. Strategy Sustainability Report 2020: P4 Sustainability Report 2020: P2-3 102-14 Statement from senior decision-maker Annual Report 2020: P201 Annual Report 2020: P2-7 102-1 Name of the organization Value Report 2019: P51 Sustainability Report 2020: P16, P23 Web: Corporate Outline 102-15 Key impacts, risks, and opportunities Annual Report 2020: P29 Sustainability Report 2020: P5 3. Ethics and integrity Annual Report 2020: P9, P48-51 102-2 Activities, brands, products, and services Value Report 2019: P22-23 Values, principles, standards, and norms Sustainability Report 2020: P6-7, P51 102-16 Web: Our Businesses of behavior Annual Report 2020: P29 102-3 Location of headquarters Annual Report 2020: P201 Sustainability Report 2020: P54 Mechanisms for advice and concerns 102-17 Annual Report 2020: P29-32 102-4 Location of operations Annual Report 2020: P193 about ethics Web: Business Management Sustainability Report 2020: P4 4. Governance 102-5 Ownership and legal form Annual Report 2020: P201 Web: Corporate Outline Sustainability Report 2020: P9, P39 102-18 Governance structure Annual Report 2020: P20-21,P188-189 Sustainability Report 2020: P4 Web: Business Management 102-6 Markets served Annual Report 2020: P4-5 Web: Our Businesses Sustainability Report 2020: P9 Annual Report 2020: P20 Sustainability Report 2020: P4 102-19 Delegating authority 102-7 Scale of the organization Web: Business Management, Disclosure Annual Report 2020: P201 based on the Corporate Governance Code Information on employees and other Sustainability Report 2020: P49 102-8 Executive-level responsibility for workers Annual Report 2020: P191 102-20 economic, environmental, and social Sustainability Report 2020: P9 102-9 Supply chain Value Report 2019: P22-23 topics Significant changes to the organization Sustainability Report 2020: P8, P9, P11-14, 102-10 Annual Report 2020: P61 Consulting stakeholders on economic, and its supply chain 102-21 P39 environmental, and social topics Annual Report 2020: P6 Sustainability Report 2020: P17, P21-23, P35, P39, P51, P53 Composition of the highest governance Annual Report 2020: P20-21, P188-189 102-22 102-11 Precautionary Principle or approach Annual Report 2020: P17-18, P22, P27-28, body and its committees Web: Business Management P39-46 Annual Report 2020: P20-21, P188-189 Web: Business Management 102-23 Chair of the highest governance body Web: Business Management Sustainability Report 2020: P10 Annual Report 2020: P20-21 102-12 External initiatives Annual Report 2020: P7 Nominating and selecting the highest 102-24 Web: Business Management, Disclosure Web: Business Management governance body based on the Corporate Governance Code Norinchukin Bank Sustainability Report 2020 Contents Ⅰ Sustainability Management at the Norinchukin Bank Ⅱ New Initiatives from Fiscal 2020 Ⅲ Past Initiatives and Results 56 Annual Report 2020: P20-21, P188-189 102-38 Annual total compensation ratio − 102-25 Conflicts of interest Web: Business Management Percentage increase in annual total 102-39 − Role of highest governance body in Annual Report 2020: P20 compensation ratio 102-26 setting purpose, values, and strategy Web: Business Management 5. Stakeholder engagement Collective knowledge of highest 102-27 Annual Report 2020: P20 102-40 List of stakeholder groups Sustainability Report 2020: P39 governance body 102-41 Collective bargaining agreements Sustainability Report 2020: P45 Evaluating the highest governance body’s Web: Business Management, Disclosure 102-28 performance based on the Corporate Governance Code 102-42 Identifying and selecting stakeholders Sustainability Report 2020: P39 Sustainability Report 2020: P8, P9, P15-16, 102-43 Approach to stakeholder engagement Sustainability Report 2020: P11-14, P39-40 Identifying and managing economic, 102-29 P17, P21-23, P35, P39, P53 Sustainability Report 2020: P11-14 environmental, and social impacts 102-44 Key topics and concerns raised Annual Report 2020: P6-7 Value Report 2019: P49 Effectiveness of risk management Sustainability Report 2020: P9, P21 6. Reporting practice 102-30 processes Annual Report 2020: P39-46 Entities included in the consolidated Review of economic, environmental, and Sustainability Report 2020: P9 102-45 Annual Report 2020: P52-54, P192 102-31 financial statements social topics Annual Report 2020: P7 Defining report content and topic Sustainability Report 2020: P9 102-46 Sustainability Report 2020: P6, P8, P15 Boundaries Highest governance body’s role in Annual Report 2020: P20 102-32 Sustainability Report 2020: P8, P15, P28, P34, sustainability reporting Web: Business Management, Disclosure 102-47 List of material topics based on the Corporate Governance Code P38, P41, P50 Sustainability Report 2020: P9 102-48 Restatements of information Not applicable 102-33 Communicating critical concerns Annual Report 2020: P20 102-49 Changes in reporting Not applicable Web: Business Management 102-50 Reporting period Sustainability Report 2020: P1 Nature and total number of critical 102-34 − 102-51 Date of most recent report Sustainability Report 2020: P1 concerns 102-52 Reporting cycle Sustainability Report 2020: P1 Annual Report 2020: P178-181 102-35 Remuneration policies Web: Business Management, Disclosure Contact point for questions regarding the 102-53 Sustainability Report 2020: P1 based on the Corporate Governance Code report Annual Report 2020: P178-181 Claims of reporting in accordance with 102-54 Sustainability Report 2020: P1, P55-57 102-36 Process for determining remuneration Web: Business Management, Disclosure the GRI Standards based on the Corporate Governance Code 102-55 GRI content index Sustainability Report 2020: P55-57 Annual Report 2020: P178-181 Stakeholders’ involvement in 102-56 External assurance − 102-37 Web: Business Management, Disclosure remuneration based on the Corporate Governance Code Norinchukin Bank Sustainability Report 2020 Contents Ⅰ Sustainability Management at the Norinchukin Bank Ⅱ New Initiatives from Fiscal 2020 Ⅲ Past Initiatives and Results 57 GRI 201: Economic Performance GRI 401: Employment Management approach disclosures Annual Report 2020: P56-77 Management approach disclosures Sustainability Report 2020: P42 Direct economic value generated and Annual Report 2020: P56-77 New employee hires and employee 201-1 401-1 Sustainability Report 2020: P49 distributed Web: Financial Information turnover Financial implications and other risks and Sustainability Report 2020: P22-23 401-3 Parental leave Sustainability Report 2020: P44, P49 201-2 opportunities due to climate change Annual Report 2020: P7 GRI 402: Labor/Management Relations Defined benefit plan obligations and other 201-3 Annual Report 2020: P64-65 Management approach disclosures Sustainability Report 2020: P45 retirement plans GRI 403: Occupational Health and Safety GRI 203: Indirect Economic Impacts Management approach disclosures Sustainability Report 2020: P45 Management approach disclosures Annual Report 2020: P33-35 403-3 Occupational health services Sustainability Report 2020: P45 Sustainability Report 2020: P24, P30 Annual Report 2020: P33-35 Worker participation, consultation, and 203-2 Significant indirect economic impacts Value Report 2019: P30-37 403-4 communication on occupational health Sustainability Report 2020: P45 Web: Initiatives and safety GRI 205: Anti-corruption 403-6 Promotion of worker health Sustainability Report 2020: P45 Management approach disclosures Sustainability Report 2020: P35 GRI 404: Training and Education Management approach disclosures Sustainability Report 2020: P46 GRI 302: Energy Programs for upgrading employee skills Sustainability Report 2020: P46-47 404-2 and transition assistance programs Annual Report 2020: P36-37 Management approach disclosures Sustainability Report 2020: P32 GRI 405: Diversity and Equal Opportunity Energy consumption within the 302-1 Sustainability Report 2020: P32 organization Management approach disclosures Sustainability Report 2020: P42 Diversity of governance bodies and 405-1 Sustainability Report 2020: P43-44, P49 employees GRI 412: Human Rights Assessment Management approach disclosures Sustainability Report 2020: P7, P52-53 Employee training on human rights 412-2 Sustainability Report 2020: P53 policies or procedures Significant investment agreements and 412-3 contracts that include human rights clauses Sustainability Report 2020: P21 or that underwent human rights screening Norinchukin Bank Sustainability Report 2020 Contents Ⅰ Sustainability Management at the Norinchukin Bank Ⅱ New Initiatives from Fiscal 2020 Ⅲ Past Initiatives and Results 58 From the Experts Norichika Kanie initiatives in companies, particularly entities in the field of as impact on the environment. The agriculture, fishery and Professor, finance. In this sense, I appreciate the bank’s focus on this area forestry industries are connected closely to ecosystems and Graduate School of Media and in their disclosures. can be addressed from both macro and micro perspectives. I Governance, Keio University However, I would like to see more information about future encourage the Norinchukin Bank to contribute to the creation initiatives related to climate change and the related issues in of a sustainable society, pursuing initiatives that link the future forestry and fisheries. of the agriculture, fishery and forestry industries to everyday The number of weather-related disasters has been on the rise issues. in recent years. These disasters are likely to cause significant damage to the agriculture, fishery and forestry industries over the medium and long term. I think the bank could explain these and other challenges of climate change from a broad and overarching perspective, delving into content that Formerly of the Tokyo Institute of Technology Director, Keio Research Institute at SFC xSDGLab would enlighten and stimulate readers. The lack of forestryNorichika Kanie serves as senior research fellow at United Nations related business structures in Japan have increased costs University Institute for the Advanced Study of Sustainability, visiting and prevented Japan from competing with overseas timber. professor at the University of Tokyo Institute for Future Initiatives, Nurturing and revitalizing the forestry industry is extremely member of the Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs) Promotion Roundtable Meeting (SDGs Promotion Headquarters of the Japanese important for regional revitalization. This work also ties to the government), member of the Expert Committee for the Promotion utilization of biomass and other renewable energy sources. I Responding to of SDGs in Regional Governments (Secretariat for Regional look forward to seeing even more financial initiatives in this the Experts Development, Cabinet Office), and other positions. area. I would like to see the bank continue efforts toward greater information disclosure, owing to the importance of protecting marine ecosystems (including measures against General Manager, Having read through this report, I was impressed by the sense marine plastic waste) in maintaining a healthy fishery industry. Corporate Planning that the Norinchukin Bank is very familiar with the agriculture, I believe the business of the Norinchukin Bank business has a Division fishery and forestry industries. As a financial institution based strong impact on Goals 13, 14 and 15 of the SDGs. The bank Kenji Kawashima in the agriculture, fishery and forestry industries, the bank has also possesses an extensive network. I look forward to the significant strengths in helping achieve the SDGs. I was also bank becoming a driving force for sustainable production and I want to thank Prof. Kanie for his valuable opinions. very gratified to see the bank discuss its active response to consumption described in Goal 12 by leading change through I have been reminded of the need to strengthen our efforts and responsible finance and how the bank creates positive impact finance. In the with-COVID-19 and after-COVID-19 eras, it will expand our disclosures not only for the agriculture industry, but and sustainable finance. be important to restructure production and consumption in also for the forest and fishery industries to secure sustainability The Norinchukin Bank also discloses information related to Japan, rather than relying solely on global supply chains. The in these industries that form the foundation of the Norinchukin securing human resources and encouraging the success of Norinchukin Bank has strengths in its reach throughout the Bank business. Many more issues remain for us to address, women in the workplace. Looking at the figures provided, entire agriculture, fishery and forestry industry supply chains, including our response to climate change. We will consider carefully Prof. Kanie’s input as we continue to work toward I believe there is still room for improvement. However, the from upstream to down. I encourage the bank to leverage this more advanced sustainability-oriented management. We will disclosure itself is another step toward improvement. strength toward integrated sustainability. also strive to provide enhanced information disclosures as the I also believe this report offers a wealth of information on The Norinchukin Bank is involved directly in this aspect of the professor has suggested. human rights initiatives. Society has emphasized human rights SDGs, which address economics and social issues, as well Norinchukin Bank Sustainability Report 2020
