2020 INTEGRATED REPORT —ANNUAL REPORT— Ye ar ended M a rc h 3 1 , 2 0 2 0 Reason for Existence (“Purpose”) Creating new value with the power of trusts and let prosperous future for our clients and society bloom Management Principles (“Mission”) (I) Swiftly  provide comprehensive solutions to our clients by fully utilizing the significant expertise and comprehensive capabilities. (II) Adhere to the principles of sound management based on a high degree of self-discipline with the background of fiduciary spirit and establish strong credibility from society. (III) Strive to fulfill all shareholder expectations by creating distinct values through fusing the various functions featuring the trust bank group. (IV) Offer a workplace where the diversity and creativity of its employees are more fully utilized to add value to the organization and where employees can have pride and be highly motivated in fulfilling their missions. Ideal Model (“Vision”) —Towards “The Trust Bank”— Based on the fiduciary spirit and with significant expertise and comprehensive capabilities, the Sumitomo Mitsui Trust Group will create distinct values by leveraging a new business model, combining its banking, asset management and administration, and real estate businesses, and will move onto the global stage as a leading trust bank group which boasts the largest and highest status in Japan. Codes of Conduct (“Value”) In order to pursue the Management Principles of the Sumitomo Mitsui Trust Group, the executives and employees commit themselves to comply with the six Codes of Conduct described below. Completely Client-oriented­—Truthfulness and Loyalty We will adhere to the highest degree of “Truthfulness and Loyalty” as well as credibility and sureness, and will carry out all our responsibilities for client satisfaction and comfort as our top priority. Contribution to Society—Dedication and Development We will remain dedicated in all our efforts, with “Frontier Spirit,” and continue to contribute to society. Realization of Organizational Capability—Trust and Creativity We will realize our organizational capabilities with full of mutual trust and creativity through improvement by mutual learning and continuous personal transformation of various people who share the enthusiasm for trust. Establishment of Individuality—Self-help and Self-discipline With a spirit of self-help and self-discipline as well as a sense of ownership, we will carry out our responsibilities. Strict Compliance with Applicable Laws and Regulations We will strictly comply with all applicable laws, rules and regulations, and will ensure that all our corporate activities meet the highest standards of social norms. Resolute Stance against Antisocial Forces We will continue to take a resolute stance against antisocial forces, which may threaten public order and the security of civil society. Truthfulness and Loyalty Dedication and Development Completely Contribution Client-oriented The Trust Bank to Society Trust and Creativity Self-help and Self-discipline Realization of Establishment Organizational of Individuality Capability The Group’s logo, known as the “future bloom,” symbolizes our purpose “Creating new value with the power of trusts and let prosperous future for our clients and society bloom.” The four translucent petals represent our mission to our stakeholders; namely, clients, society, shareholders, and employees. The four different colors symbolize the values that make up our Codes of Conduct—natural green for “truthfulness and loyalty,” golden orange for “dedication and development,” blue-green for “trust and creativity,” and sky blue for “selfhelp and self-discipline.” Three of the words in the Group’s values—“truthfulness and loyalty,” “dedication and development,” and “trust and creativity”—are drawn from the principles and slogans handed down unbroken from each trust bank prior to the merging of the Group. “Truthfulness and loyalty” has its origins in the founding prospectus of The Sumitomo Trust and Banking Co., Ltd., “dedication and development” was the founding spirit of The Mitsui Trust and Banking Co., Ltd. and “trust and creativity” comes from the corporate slogan of The Chuo Trust and Banking Co., Ltd. They are also assets that embody an entrepreneurial spirit and crystallization of passion and diligence towards trusts inherited in each trust bank that now form the foundation of the Group. Each and every director, officer, and employee of the Group pledges to seriously embrace these assets and spirit and soundly hand them down to future generations. This is why we have incorporated the Group’s values into our logo. The “future bloom” logo represents our desire to let prosperous future for our clients and society bloom, as well as our commitment to ensuring that the assets built up by our predecessors will bloom in the future. Sumitomo Mitsui Trust Holdings, Inc. 2020 Integrated Report 1 Editorial Policy The Sumitomo Mitsui Trust Group publishes this integrated report so that readers can better understand how the Group’s initiatives on creating shared value aim to achieve sustainable growth and deliver value to all stakeholders. In this report, after providing an overview of the Group’s mediumto long-term vision, we discuss our business strategy as a financial group specialized in trust banking, our environmental, social, and governance (ESG) initiatives, and the management foundation that underpins them. In applying our editorial approach, we strive to improve and expand not just financial information but also non-financial information such as business models and ESG factors, referencing the integrated reporting framework issued by the International Integrated Reporting Council (IIRC). We also disclose information appropriately, in accordance with our disclosure policy. For more detailed financial data or ESG information, please refer to the Financial Data Section, our ESG Report, or visit our website. <Reporting Coverage> Reporting Period: From April 1, 2019 to March 31, 2020 (Partially including the information after April 1, 2020) Scope of Reporting: The Sumitomo Mitsui Trust Group; including Sumitomo Mitsui Trust Holdings, Inc., Sumitomo Mitsui Trust Bank, Limited, other subsidiaries and affiliated companies 2 Sumitomo Mitsui Trust Holdings, Inc. 2020 Integrated Report CONTENTS Top Message 4 Top Message Group Overview 10 History of trusts and the SuMi TRUST Group 12 Group Information 14 Financial Highlights 15 Non-financial Highlights Vision 16 Value Creation Process 18 Creation of Impacts 20 Circulation of Capital and Materiality Management 22 Medium-Term Management Plan (FY2020–2022) 28 Message from Head of Finance 32 Special Feature1. Initiatives on active participation of specialists 34 Special Feature2. Initiatives to address digitalization Business Strategy 36 Group Structure 38 SuMi TRUST Bank — President’s Message 40 Retail Total Solution Services Business 44 Wholesale Total Solution Services Business 47 Real Estate Business 50 Stock Transfer Agency Services Business 52 Global Markets Business 54 Wholesale Asset Management Business 56 Private Banking Business 58 Asset Formation Advisory, Work Place, Business 60 Fiduciary Services Business 62 Asset Management Business 66 Column What is a trust? ESG 68 Corporate Governance 76 External Director Interview 78 Our Board of Directors and Executive Officers 80 Initiatives on Key Sustainability Issues 92 Human Resources Strategy Management 98 Risk Appetite Framework 100 Risk Management Foundation 104 Compliance 106 Compliance with International Financial Regulations 107 Internal Auditing 108 Client-Oriented Initiatives 114 Communication with Shareholders and Investors 115 Initiatives to Facilitate Financing Corporate 116 Financial Review 119 Corporate Information, Rating Information, Website Information Sumitomo Mitsui Trust Holdings, Inc. 2020 Integrated Report 3 Top Message Tetsuo Ohkubo Director, President Sumitomo Mitsui Trust Holdings, Inc. 4 Being the “Best Partner” most trusted by our clients Given the divergence of values in society and increased uncertainties regarding the future, as a provider of trust schemes that facilitates a safe and secure society, we aspire to contribute to the development of society and also achieve sustainable and stable growth of the SuMi TRUST Group. Introduction The COVID-19 global pandemic is inflicting an enormous strain on societies, economic activity and our personal lives. I offer my deepest condolences to the families who have lost their loved ones to the COVID-19 and express my heartfelt sympathy to those afflicted, as well as to the many people whose livelihoods and businesses have been deeply scarred by the pandemic. This fiscal year we unveiled the Group’s new Medium-Term Management Plan. However, the commencement of the plan happened to exactly coincide with the spread of COVID-19. As a response to the COVID-19 crisis, we have deployed our banking functions to assure clients with smooth supply of funds and as a financial institution responsible for providing key social infrastructure such as pensions, stock transfer agency services, real estate, and asset management & administration, the entire Group has strived to ensure stable continuity of our businesses. In this environment, I was strongly reminded of our role and responsibility in society as a financial group specialized in trust banking. I can also state with confidence that balanced creation of both social value and economic value—the core management philosophy of our new Medium-Term Management Plan—is the correct approach to take. That said, irrespective of the effects of the COVID-19, societies and environments around the world are changing. Japan is no exception and the structure of society continues to be transformed by a lower birthrate, an aging population, rapid digitalization and ESG management for companies, particularly with regard to how they can co-exist with society, is becoming increasingly important. Going forward, all our clients, whether they be individuals or corporations, will likely seek solutions to new issues caused by changes in values and behavior in an environment where the future outlook remains clouded. Our Group’s mission is to assist solving such issues for our clients. We also hope to achieve further growth by leveraging the various functions of the Group to earn the trust of our clients as their “Best Partner” and implement initiatives that would fulfill their needs. Reminiscing on our past, we have continued to meet the demands of the changing times to solve various social issues and contribute to Japan’s development with the power of trusts. For example, our loan trusts supported the country’s recovery in the aftermath of World War II and our pension trusts helped stabilize people’s lives and improve their wellbeing. Sumitomo Mitsui Trust Holdings, Inc. 2020 Integrated Report 5 Top Message In our endeavor to help build a sustainable society for the future, we shall continue to draw on the power of trusts, or in other words, the significant expertise, comprehensive capabilities and wide array of functions of a financial group specialized in trust banking. To ensure that Group employees can keep this goal close to heart, we aspire to “creating new value with the power of trusts and let prosperous future for our clients and society bloom.” This ideal defines our reason for existence, or “purpose.” Refer to page 22 for more information about our “purpose.” With all Group employees committed to this purpose, we shall endeavor to progress steadily towards the sustainable development of society and the sustainable growth of the Group. Medium-Term Management Plan In our previous Medium-Term Management Plan (FY2017–2019) that called for a “second foundation” of the Group, we steadily enhanced profitability mainly by bolstering our fee businesses and improving net interest income. In the final year of the plan, excluding the recognition of special loan loss provisions in preparation for the anticipated impact of the COVID-19 going forward, most of our targets for KPIs were attained, such as net business profit before credit costs, net income attributable to owners of the parent and shareholder ROE. Meanwhile, as the environment surrounding financial institutions has become increasingly challenging due mainly to persistently low interest rates and intense competition that transcends industries, the issues that needs to be addressed and their solutions have become clearer in order to further enhance our competitive edge as a financial group specialized in trust banking to achieve better feedback from clients. In our new Medium-Term Management Plan spanning FY2020 through FY2022, Refer to page 22-27 for more information about our Medium-Term Management Plan balanced creation of both social value and economic value rests at the core of our (FY2020-22). management approach and we intend to tackle a variety of social issues in our various business domains in order to sustain growth throughout the Group. In particular, we shall push ahead with initiatives designed to address mainly the following challenges that our clients and society at large, currently face. Individuals: Asset administration suited for Japan’s aging society and asset formation of individuals. Corporations: Sustainable growth of the Japanese economy and corporations (addressing both financial and non-financial issues). Investors: Diverse range of investment opportunities and development of the investment chain. Owing to the heightened risk of dementia and other conditions associated with Japan’s super-aged society, an increasing number of individual clients want their personal assets to be managed appropriately so they can be used meaningfully on themselves or the next generation. Our Group shall steadily respond to this demand with the power of trusts by harnessing our hitherto accumulated know-how alongside digital technology. For clients of the working generation, we hope to provide suitable products, services and consulting so as to support their asset formation in the age of 100-year life. For our corporate clients, addressing non-financial issues that drive company growth is an urgent matter. Such issues might include fostering a work environment in which employees feel that their work is rewarding, or sustainability initiatives aimed at further 6 Sumitomo Mitsui Trust Holdings, Inc. 2020 Integrated Report Top Message Under our new Medium-Term Management Plan, we shall endeavor to tackle a variety of social issues, guided by our core management philosophy of balanced creation of both social value and economic value. promoting co-existence with society. In order to fulfill the financial needs of our clients, we aim to provide high value-added non-financial services. For example, the enhancement of pensions and other employee benefit schemes, supporting communication with investors and shareholders, and environment-related consulting regarding real estate and other assets. In addition to traditional asset classes such as stocks and bonds, we shall strive to provide loan receivables, real estate, and other novel investment instruments that fully draw upon our Group’s characteristics so that we can meet the increasingly diverse investment needs of our investor clients in an ultra-low interest rate environment. We also intend to provide more than just products—we will support the entire investment chain with efficient and high value-added services in a number of processes related to investment, from information provision and consulting right through to custody services. By steadily advancing these initiatives in our new Medium-Term Management Plan, we hope to consolidate our business platform over the next three years with the aim of realizing the sustainable development of society and sustainable and stable growth for the Group. Development of human resources and diversity & inclusion  warded the New Diversity Management A Our employees are the driving force behind the execution of our Medium-Term Selection 100 Please see page 93 Management Plan. They also underpin the Group’s sustainable growth, which is why our staffs’ skill development and the provision of opportunities through which they can excel are of utmost importance. One of the Group’s management principles, or “mission,” is to offer a workplace where the diversity and creativity of our employees are fully utilized to add value to the organiza elected as a “Nadeshiko Brand” S Please see page 93 tion and where employees have pride and be highly motivated in fulfilling their missions. Sumitomo Mitsui Trust Holdings, Inc. 2020 Integrated Report 7 Top Message Our approach to diversity and inclusion, which entails the creation of unique added value through interaction among our diverse employees, is without doubt, part of our DNA. We believe it will be more important than ever before to incorporate and make use of different sets of values in management in order to create new businesses that assist A  warded the highest rating of “Gold” in in solving social issues, all the while imagining an unpredictable future. Pride Index for LGBT initiatives Please see page 97 We have actively appointed female employees to managerial positions and supported their career planning and we have also implemented specific measures to strengthen our initiatives on changing the mindset of employees. For example, we aim to select talented young employees for special roles, expand opportunities afforded to senior employees who possess expert skills, further the understanding of LGBT issues, support the work-life balance of employees engaged in childcare or nursing care and develop a more accommodating workplace environment. Promoting sustainability management The SuMi TRUST Group has actively addressed the following issues through its business activities: climate change, natural capital (biodiversity), environmentally friendly property, sustainable investment (ESG investment) and the super-aged society. As one example of our initiatives, in March 2019 we concluded the world’s first Positive Impact Finance (PIF) loan agreement with a business in which the use of loaned Refer to page 46 for more information about Positive Impact Finance (PIF). funds is unspecified. Through PIF we comprehensively analyze and assess the impact of a client’s corporate activities on the environment, society and economy. We then work together with the client to set goals that they commit to achieving so that both parties can overcome various social issues and work towards realizing a sustainable society. Many clients have expressed a keen interest in this solution and we are steadily building a track record of transactions. In this way we will continue to create positive impact on society through the corporate activities of our clients. Of the many challenges faced by society, the issue of climate change is the most pressing. We feel that we must further demonstrate the functions of our Group in the areas of both banking and trusts. As a founding signatory, we were the first financial institution in Japan to sign on to the Principles for Responsible Banking (PRB) that came into effect in September 2019. The PRB calls on banks to align their business strategies with the goals of the Paris Agreement on climate change and the UN Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs). We Refer to page 84-87 for more information about climate change issue (TCFD). have in place an environmentally-friendly and socially-acceptable financing policy that is geared towards the establishment of a society with net zero carbon emissions and we aim to support the creation of new business models by our clients mainly through the financing of renewable energy. Furthermore, our Group asset management companies are fulfilling their role as responsible investors by actively taking part in the Climate Action 100+ and a number of other partnerships concerning climate change. Returns to shareholders In line with the Group’s sustainable and stable growth, we hope to steadily expand returns to our shareholders going forward. 8 Sumitomo Mitsui Trust Holdings, Inc. 2020 Integrated Report Top Message In particular, after revising our shareholder return policy in accordance with the new Medium-Term Management Plan, we shall place greater emphasis on dividends as a means of returning shareholders’ profit commensurate with earnings. We therefore shall aim for a consolidated dividend payout ratio of around 40% in or around FY2022. We may also repurchase our own shares flexibly in order to improve capital efficiency while simultaneously confirming that we maintain an optimal balance with growth seeking investments. In conclusion Considering the current assortment of numerous risks and growth opportunities, we need to conduct our business operations while paying special attention to changes in the business environment. That said, the direction our Group is headed shall remain unchanged. We believe the diversification of values and the growing number of uncertainties in society present us an opportunity to come into our own with trust schemes that can ensure a safe and secure society. We will take steps to overcome the COVID-19 crisis at hand and aim to achieve sustainable and stable growth by steadily executing our new Medium-Term Management Plan. We appreciate your continued understanding and cooperation. July 2020 Sumitomo Mitsui Trust Holdings, Inc. Director, President Sumitomo Mitsui Trust Holdings, Inc. 2020 Integrated Report 9 Group Overview History of trusts and the SuMi TRUST Group 1900s 1950s 1960s Birth of Birth of Birth of modern trust system loan trusts pension trusts It is said that Japan’s present-day trust system In a loan trust, capital is accumulated by the trustIn a pension trust, a trustee manages and invests has its origins in the UK, but it was only introee from a large number of settlors and extended the money used to pay retirement pension benduced into Japan in the latter half of the Meiji to companies as long-term funds mainly through efits to employees on behalf of a company or period following further development in the US. loans and bill discounting. The profits earned in organization. Pension trusts allow pension assets In Japanese law, the word “trust” in the financial the trust are then distributed to the trust’s benefito be separated from a company’s creditworthiness sense first appeared in the Industrial Bank of ciaries. In the aftermath of World War II, loan trusts and managed independently. This ultimately led to Japan Act in 1900. catered for the lack of capital investment funds in the establishment of benefit schemes under which Japan’s industrial sector and were the driving force employees can work with peace of mind knowing behind its recovery. their assets are safe and secure. Since the founding of the SuMi TRUST Group in 1924, we have evolved in lockstep with the development of trusts by creating numerous services tailored to the times based on our fiduciary spirit. Currently, the total value of trust assets in the industry comes to more than ¥1,200 trillion. The SuMi TRUST Group will continue to surge ahead as a leading financial group specialized in trust banking which boasts the largest and highest status in Japan. Entrusted balance of trust assets* Source: Trust Companies Association of Japan statistics data *Total of figures for financial institutions and other companies providing trust services in Japan 1900 1920 1930 1940 1950 1960 1964 1968 1972 1976 1980 1984 1924 2000 2011 Established The Mitsui Establishment of Trust Company, Limited The Chuo Mitsui Trust Established Established as the first trust company in Japan based on the and Banking Sumitomo Mitsui Trust Business Act Company, Limited Trust Holdings, Inc. 1962 Established The Chuo Trust & Banking Co., Ltd. 1986 2009 1925 Establishment of Acquired Nikko Established Sumishin Capital Management* Asset Management Sumitomo Trust *Now Sumitomo Mitsui Trust Asset Management Co., Ltd. Co., Ltd. Co., Ltd. 2000 Established Japan Trustee Services Bank, Ltd. 10 Sumitomo Mitsui Trust Holdings, Inc. 2020 Integrated Report 1980s 1990s 2000 onwards Birth of Amendments to Birth of asset securitization the Trust Act and land trusts type trusts the Trust Business Act In a land trust, a land owner entrusts the manageIn an asset securitization type trust, a company Fundamental revisions were made to the Trust ment and investment of land to a trustee, who entrusts its monetary claims, property, real estate, Act and Trust Business Act in Japan so the industhen constructs buildings and other properties and and other assets to a trustee. The trust raises funds try could more accurately respond to changes in distributes the earnings from mainly rental income by assigning beneficiary rights to investors who social and economic conditions and asset manto the trust’s beneficiaries. When skyrocketing are provided with cash flow generated by the agement methods. Trusts continue to gain further land prices became an issue in Japan owing to the assets. Asset securitization type trusts were used momentum in society with the creation of new bubble economy, land trusts were utilized as a way as a vehicle to procure funds after Japan’s bubble types of funds. And as people are now living much to push ahead with urban development without economy burst because they do not hinge on a longer, services are also being developed to meet having to buy or sell real estate. company’s credit. the growing demand for asset administration and succession services among individual clients. (¥ trn) 1,200 900 600 300 0 984 1988 1992 1996 2000 2004 2008 2012 2016 2019.9 2012 2020 • Establishment of Sumitomo Mitsui Trust Bank, Limited • Establishment of UBS SuMi TRUST Wealth Advisory Inc. (merger between The Chuo Mitsui Trust and Banking Company, Limited, Chuo Mitsui Asset Trust and Banking Company, Limited, and Sumitomo Trust and Banking Co., Ltd.) •S  tart of Medium-Term Management Plan • Establishment of Sumitomo Mitsui Trust Asset Management Co., Ltd. (merger between Chuo Mitsui Asset Management Company, Limited and Sumishin Asset Management) running from FY2020 through FY2022 2017 2018 • Shifted to a company with • Integration of asset management functions of SuMi TRUST Bank and Three Committees Sumitomo Mitsui Trust Asset Management • Establishment of pure holding company JTC Holdings, Ltd. and business integration of Japan Trustee Services Bank, Ltd. and Trust & Custody Services Bank, Ltd. Sumitomo Mitsui Trust Holdings, Inc. 2020 Integrated Report 11 Group Information The SuMi TRUST Group offers its clients optimal and total solutions by leveraging its comprehensive capabilities that integrate both trust and banking functions, as well as the mutual collaboration between SuMi TRUST Bank and the many companies in the Group that specialize in banking, asset management and administration, real estate, and various other fields. (as of March 31, 2020) Listed company Main subsidiaries of Sumitomo Mitsui Trust Holdings (“SuMi TRUST Holdings”) [62 consolidated subsidiaries; 34 equity-method affiliated companies] 100% 84.8% 100% 100% 100% 50% 100% 91.9% 100% The role of financial holding companies is to oversee group management. 100% * 33.3% * 100% * Ratio of ownership with voting rights is shown, *These three companies are scheduled to be merged on July 27, 2020. Japan Trustee Services Bank, Ltd. will including indirect ownership via subsidiaries. become the surviving company and be renamed Custody Bank of Japan, Ltd. Domestic Network SuMi TRUST Bank has built a domestic branch network with a well-balanced footprint that is concentrated in the greater Tokyo metropolitan, Kinki, and Chubu regions. Furthermore, SuMi TRUST Bank’s internet banking and SBI Sumishin Net Bank offer services nationwide over the Internet. (as of March 31, 2020) Greater Tokyo metropolitan area Kinki area Providing online services across Japan 72 branches 34 branches The SuMi TRUST Bank branch network Hokkaido, Tohoku, Chugoku, Chubu area Shikoku, and Kyushu 21 branches 23 branches *The substantial number of branches is 116 when the branches at the same business site are counted on an aggregated basis. For detail of branches, please see pages 8-11 of the Financial Data Section. 12 Sumitomo Mitsui Trust Holdings, Inc. 2020 Integrated Report Group Overview Status The SuMi TRUST Group is a financial group specialized in trust banking and an industry leader in many areas with a core focus on trust-related fee businesses. (as of March 31, 2020) Assets under management ¥87trn Domestic financial institutions No. 1 Assets under custody* 1 ¥224trn Domestic financial institutions No. 1 Fiduciary Services Business Balance of corporate pension funds ¥12trn Trust banks No. 1 (incl. asset management) Lead manager for corporate pension funds 1,304 cases Trust banks No. 1 Entrusted balance of investment trusts ¥72trn Trust banks No. 1 Entrusted balance of securitized real estate ¥18trn Trust banks No. 1 Real Estate Business REIT assets under custody ¥15trn Trust banks No. 1 1,630 Stock Transfer Agency Number of client companies (42.3% share) Trust banks No. 1 Services Business 27.77mn Number of shareholders under administration (42.9% share) Trust banks No. 1 Investment trust/discretionary investment sales volume ¥1trn Domestic banks No. 1 Retail Total Solution Number of will trusts 33 thousands Trust banks No. 2 Services Business Balance of loans to individuals ¥10trn Domestic banks No. 4 Balance of loans to corporations ¥19trn Domestic banks No. 5 Wholesale Financial Total loan balance ¥29trn Domestic banks No. 5 Services Business*2 Trust agreement agencies and agencies concurrently engaged in trust business 132 Trust banks No. 1 Entrustment of asset liquidation trusts ¥35trn Trust banks No. 1 Based on SuMi TRUST Holdings data; *1 Balance of trust assets (trust banks specializing in asset administration excluded due to their large amounts of re-entrusted trust assets); *2 Wholesale Total Solution Services Business and Wholesale Asset Management Business Overseas Network We have our own bases in key markets around the world, and with these bases and through alliances and cooperation with local financial institutions and asset managers, we are working to expand our global presence. (as of June 30, 2020) Sumitomo Mitsui Trust (Ireland) Limited New York Branch London Branch Sumitomo Mitsui Trust Bank (U.S.A.) Limited Sumitomo Mitsui Trust International Limited Nikko Asset Management Americas, Inc. Nikko Asset Management Europe Ltd. Midwest Railcar Corporation Sumitomo Mitsui Trust Bank (Luxembourg) S.A. Seoul Representative Office BIDV-SuMi TRUST Leasing Co., Ltd. Shanghai Branch Sumitomo Mitsui Trust Bank (Thai) Public Company Limited Hong Kong Branch Sumitomo Mitsui Trust (Hong Kong) Limited Affin Hwang Asset Management Berhad Rongtong Fund Management Co., Ltd. Singapore Branch Zijin Trust Co., Ltd. Sumitomo Mitsui Trust Nanjing Zijin Financial Leasing Co., Ltd. Leasing (Singapore) Pte. Ltd. Beijing Representative Office (Banking Business) Nikko Asset Management Asia Limited Beijing Representative Office (Securities Business) Jakarta Representative Office Nikko Asset Management New Zealand Limited Nikko AM Limited Sydney Representative Office Overseas Branches (SuMi TRUST Bank) Overseas Representative Offices (SuMi TRUST Bank) Subsidiaries Key Affiliates Sumitomo Mitsui Trust Holdings, Inc. 2020 Integrated Report 13 Financial Highlights Net Income Attributable to Owners of the Parent Return on Shareholders’ Equity* 200.0 (Billions of Yen) 10.0 (%) 163.0 8.0 150.0 7.12 6.0 100.0 4.0 50.0 2.0 0 0.0 2015 2016 2017 2018 2019 (Fiscal Year) 2015 2016 2017 2018 2019 (Fiscal Year) *Page 116 for calculation method Fee Income Ratio* Overhead Ratio*1 1,000.0 (Billions of Yen) 54.6 (%) 60.0 800.0 (Billions of Yen) 61.1 (%) 60.0 800.0 742.6 600.0 54.4 40.0 600.0 453.6 40.0 400.0 405.8 400.0 20.0 246.4 20.0 200.0 200.0 0 0 0 0 2015 2016 2017 2018 2019 (Fiscal Year) 2015 2016 2017 2018 2019 (Fiscal Year) Fee income ratio (right) Overhead ratio (non-consolidated)*2(right) Overhead ratio (right) Net fees and commissions and related profit (left) General and administrative expenses (non-consolidated)*2 (left) Substantial consolidated gross business profit (left) Substantial general and administrative expenses (left) *Net fees and commissions and related profit divided by gross business profit *1 General and administrative expenses divided by substantial consolidated gross business profit *2 SuMi TRUST Bank (non-consolidated) Non-Performing Loan*1 (NPL) Ratio*2 Capital Adequacy Ratio, etc. 200.0 (Billions of Yen) (%) 1.00 20.0 (%) 17.23 150.0 0.75 15.0 14.47 12.62 100.0 86.8 0.50 10.0 0.3 50.0 0.25 5.0 0 0 0.0 March 31, March 31, March 31, March 31, March 31, March 31, March 31, 2018 March 31, 2019 March 31, 2020 2015 2016 2017 2018 2019 2020 NPL (left) NPL ratio (right) Common equity Tier 1 capital ratio Tier 1 capital ratio *1 Problem assets based on the Financial Reconstruction Act Total capital ratio *2 SuMi TRUST Bank (non-consolidated) 14 Sumitomo Mitsui Trust Holdings, Inc. 2020 Integrated Report Group Overview Non-financial Highlights ESG Management—External Evaluation The SuMi TRUST Group’s ESG Evaluation PRI assessment of asset management firms (2019 MSCI rating) (2019 PRI assessment) AA We aim to become the No. 1 financial institution for ESG manA + Having signed on to the Principles for Responsible Investment agement, as we reflect the perspectives of ESG investors in (PRI), Sumitomo Mitsui Trust Asset Management and Nikko our management. We are acclaimed for our ESG efforts, such Asset Management undertake initiatives in line with the PRI. as receiving the top rating of a financial institution in Japan Both companies have earned the highest overall rating of A+ in from MSCI, an influential research institution in the field. the annual PRI assessment. ESG Management—Enhanced Initiatives Sustainability in our business E (exposure to carbon-related assets) (March 31, 2020) Gold prize In recognition of its new products, SuMi TRUST Bank was 5.2 % The percentage of loans exposed to carbon-related assets*, an awarded the gold prize in the financing category of the indicator of credit exposure to carbon-related assets in the busiMinistry of the Environment’s inaugural ESG Finance Awards ness portfolio. Owing to an increase in project finance for renewJapan (see page 46 for details). able energy projects, which are subtracted from total exposure to carbon-related assets, the Group’s exposure has decreased 0.4 points from the end of last fiscal year (see page 85 for details). *Combined total for SuMi TRUST Bank and Sumitomo Mitsui Trust Bank (Thai) S (number of employees who have passed the gerontology test) G (number of female executives) (March 31, 2020) (March 31, 2020) 912 The number of employees at SuMi TRUST Bank that have SuMi TRUST Holdings: 1 director 6 passed the gerontology test, which was first introduced in 2014, SuMi TRUST Bank: 2 directors has increased sharply from last year’s 293 (as of June 30, 2019) Sumitomo Mitsui Trust Asset Management: 1 director because in addition to branch general managers at all branch Nikko Asset Management: 2 directors offices, it is now mandatory for deputy general managers, section managers, and financial consultants to also pass the exam. Sumitomo Mitsui Trust Holdings, Inc. 2020 Integrated Report 15 Vision Value Creation Process Process for the balanced creation of both social value and economic value We harness the managerial resources (six types of capital) unique to a financial group specialized in trust banking and leverage our trust functions to drive our business operations. In doing so, we create positive impacts geared towards achieving the SDGs for our stakeholders, which in turn create value for society and economic value for ourselves. Mission Creating new value with the power of trusts and To provide value to clients, society, shareholders, and employees Truthfulness and loyalty Dedication and development 6 types of capital we rely on Capital pertaining to Social issue-solving business the economy (wealth) (creation of positive impacts) Financial Capital Environment surrounding the Group Accumulation of all sorts of capital through business operations (circulation within our businesses) Manufactured Capital Expansion in Full utilization of business domains various trust functions Capital pertaining to based on the Group’s as a trust specialist inherent situation society (people) Human Capital Identification of social issues to be Intellectual Capital addressed first Individuals: Asset administration suited for Japan’s aging society Social and Asset formation of individuals Relationship Capital Corporations: Sustainable growth of the Japanese economy and corporations (addressing both financial and non-financial issues) Capital pertaining to Investors: Diverse range of investment opportunities and development of the investment chain the environment (earth) Sustainability issues such as climate change and infectious diseases Natural Capital Direct impacts on the Group’s stakeholders Materiality 16 Sumitomo Mitsui Trust Holdings, Inc. 2020 Integrated Report This process also sets in motion the circulation of capital whereby the capital accumulated once more enhances our value creation capabilities in a sustained manner. We identify high-priority issues (materiality) that affect our value creation process over the medium to long term and are currently strengthening our materiality management so as to appropriately control such impacts within the constructs of a risk appetite framework (RAF). Purpose let prosperous future for our clients and society bloom Vision Value Realization of “The Trust Bank” Trust and creativity Self-help and self-discipline Conversion to all sorts of capital mainly through the internalization of the external economy (circulation outside of our businesses) Maximization of value Creation of social value for stakeholders Monitoring based on a risk appetite framework (RAF) Helping achieve the SDGs Clients Economy Increasing wealth Business partners Shareholders Various Society and investors (people) impact channels Improving well-being Employees Communities Environment (local communities, NPOs) (earth) Sustaining Public sector (government agencies, natural capital international organizations) Indirect impacts that go beyond stakeholders Materiality management (factors that promote and inhibit the circulation of capital) Sumitomo Mitsui Trust Holdings, Inc. 2020 Integrated Report 17 Creation of Impacts Environment surrounding the Group Financial Capital Manufactured Capital Human Capital Social issue-solving Stakeholders Economy Intellectual Capital business (creation of Society Social and Relationship Capital positive impacts) Environment Natural Capital Materiality Creation of Positive Impacts Balanced creation of both social value and economic holder has an impact on the next. In other words, examinvalue has been placed at the very core of our manageing in detail the logic (impact considerations) of how our ment philosophy in our Medium-Term Management Plan. initiatives can ultimately have a positive impact on social While there are cases in which social value is generated issues—as well as how we can limit the negative impacts— by our Group’s corporate activities, the majority of such serves as a guide to the creation of social value. value is formed through a chain reaction where one stakeCreation of impacts and ecosystem optimization Based on our trust banking platform, the SuMi TRUST economy, society, and the environment. However, the impacts Group aims to establish mutual and inseparable relationships are not just limited to those that have a direct effect; we must (ecosystem) with various stakeholders. We make every effort also take into account the indirect impacts one stakeholder to create positive impacts and limit the negative ones for our may have on another. We therefore need to chart a course that stakeholders by drawing on the functions of this ecosystem leads to the creation of social value, and ultimately even the in terms of the three components that comprise social value: achievement of the SDGs. — Our trust business has impact considerations already built in — The creation of positive impacts that takes into account stakeholders Actuarial Pension beyond our clients demonstrates a high degree of compatibility with Administration Management valuation payment our trust business. For example, the pension trust scheme was created mainly for the purpose of helping stabilize people’s lives and improving Entrustment of their well-being, and we are entrusted by client companies (settlors) to pension funds Pension payments perform actuarial valuations and manage pension assets on behalf of Trust bank (trustee) their employees (the beneficiaries). In other words, the direct positive Employee/employer impacts on our client companies are accomplished with the creation of contributions indirect positive impacts on their employees. In much the same way, our Positive will trust business and stock transfer agency services business deliver impact Pension Client agreement positive impacts to heirs and shareholders, respectively. As a financial Employees group specialized in trust banking, the consideration of impacts is part company (beneficiaries) of the SuMi TRUST Group’s DNA and the source of our ability to gener(settlor) Employee Support contributions ate value. Recognizing the beneficiaries among the stakeholders one step removed from our clients in all of our business operations yields added value that is unlike that at the commercial banks. Positive impact 18 Sumitomo Mitsui Trust Holdings, Inc. 2020 Integrated Report Vision Stakeholders of the Group • Corporate clients In the Group’s management principles, or • Individual clients • Investor clients, etc. mission, as well as in our Basic Policy on the Clients • Partners Social Responsibility (Sustainability Policy), • Institutional investors • Industry peers • Individual investors we identified stakeholders to be our clients, • Corporate shareholders, etc. Shareholders Business • Subcontractors & investors partners • Suppliers, etc. shareholders, investors, employees, business partners, communities, NPOs, govern• Group-wide • General public ment agencies, and international organizations. • Consumers SuMi TRUST employees • Temporary Listening to the opinions of stakeholders and • Local communiCommunities Group Employees employees ties, etc. • Part-timers, etc. gaining an understanding of how our Group depends on them and what kind of impacts our • Business groups and industry bodies • International financial corporate activities are having on them is the • Nonprofit corporations and regulators public interest corporations International • UN agencies starting point of our management that can gen• Nonprofit organizations, etc. NPOs organizations • Global initiatives, etc. erate social value and contribute to the building Government • Supervisory authorities agencies of a sustainable society. • Relevant ministries • Local governments, etc. Positive Impacts Designed to Create Social Value The Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs) are a collecIt also enhances value for the economy (increase in tion of 17 goals intended to be achieved by the year 2030. wealth), society (improvement in people’s well-being*), and In developing the SDGs, the United Nations identified the the environment (sustaining the earth’s natural capital). We most pressing social issues the international community think social value generated is the sum total of the increasfaces in terms of economy, society, and the environment. The es in these three types of value. creation of social value is one initiative contributing to the *The World Health Organization (WHO) defines health as a state of complete physical, mental and social well-being. achievement of many of the SDGs, whilst setting off a chain reaction of positive impacts among multiple stakeholders. Social issues we need to address and focus The following topics have been incorporated into the These topics need to be solved through collaboration Group’s Medium-Term Management Plan as social issues that between the public sector and private financial institutions. warrant our attention. In addressing the issues outlined in our Medium-Term • Individual clients: A sset administration suited for Japan’s Management Plan together with sustainability topics such as aging society and asset formation of indiclimate change, the recycling of resources, poverty, and infecviduals. tious diseases, we aim to construct the financial infrastructure • Corporate clients: Sustainable growth of the Japanese econwith which the SDGs can be achieved by fully leveraging the omy and corporations (addressing both functions of a financial group specialized in trust banking to financial and non-financial issues). develop and deliver to clients the products and services that • Investors: D iverse range of investment opportunities and facilitate the smooth supply of funds. development of the investment chain. (direct impact) (indirect impact) (indirect impact) SuMi TRUST Products & services Products & services Stakeholders of Creation of (impacts) Clients (impacts) social value Group our clients Examples of positive impact (promoting) Examples of negative impact (avoiding) Sales of property funds with high investment weightings in Direct impact Investments and loans to renewable energy projects buildings that are not environmentally friendly Consulting on information disclosure that clearly demonstrates Investments and loans to projects that contribute to increased Indirect impact processes for achieving the SDGs greenhouse gas emissions in the long run Sumitomo Mitsui Trust Holdings, Inc. 2020 Integrated Report 19 Circulation of Capital and Materiality Management Environment surrounding the Group Circulation outside of our businesses Financial Capital Manufactured Circulation within SDGs Capital our businesses Human Capital Social issueStakeEconomy Intellectual Capital solving business holders (creation of Society Social and Relationship Capital positive impacts) Environment Natural Capital Materiality Circulation of Capital The capital needed to execute business operations usualprofits and development of human resources through busily consists of cash, equipment, and other tangible assets that ness execution, as well as client base expansion, and the (2) appear on financial statements, as well as intangible assets circulation of capital outside of our businesses whereby benthat do not convert so easily into money, like human resourcefits that extend beyond the Group come back to the Group es, know-how, and networks. We must inject both financial in the long term owing to the internalization of the external and non-financial capital into our businesses and establish economy. The SuMi TRUST Group’s value creation process— a mechanism through which our launching pad for growth presented in line with the International Integrated Reporting is enhanced in a sustained manner by the (1) circulation of Framework—is a mechanism that facilitates the circulation of capital within our businesses, for example, the generation of capital through our social problem-solving businesses. Three areas of Capital SuMi TRUST Group definitions and metrics value Capital: 9.7% common equity Tier 1 capital ratio (finalized Basel III standards) Financial Total assets: ¥56trn Economy Financial Network: 150 offices in Japan, 10 offices overseas (optimally placed network)* (wealth) Manufactured SBI Sumishin Net Bank accounts: 3.92mn IT system expenses: ¥46.8bn* Consolidated employees: 21,658 (diversity & inclusion: 357 female managers (higher than targeted 300))* Employee satisfaction survey: vitality level of 59.1, satisfaction level of 60.4* Human Employees with certifications: 5,611 registered real estate transaction agents, 43 fellows of the Institute of Actuaries of Japan, 267 financial consultants* Total training hours: 5,705; training costs: ¥540mn* Intellectual Digital Academy classes: 28 (as of June 30, 2020) Future creation activities (employee-driven ideas on new businesses): 267 applications from 499 applicants Society (people) High-quality business platform: assets under management of ¥87trn, assets under custody of ¥224trn (No. 1 Nonfor both among domestic financial institutions), total loan balance of ¥29trn (No. 5 among domestic banks), financial entrusted balance of securitized real estate of ¥18trn (No. 1 among trust banks), 1,613 client companies in stock transfer agency services business and 27.75mn shareholders under administration (No. 1 for both Social and among trust banks) relationship Potential “best partners”: 260,000 individual clients and 590 corporate clients* Corporate brand: backed by Mitsui and Sumitomo’s combined 400-year history of contributions to society and relationships of trust with clients Sustainability rating: MSCI ESG Rating of AA (No. 1 among domestic banks), FTSE ESG Rating of 4.3 (No. 2)* Common social capital is shared by all kinds of people and organizations and forms the basis for the existence Environment Natural of the Group itself and its stakeholders. The definition of natural capital according to the International Integrated (earth) Reporting Framework is “air, water, land, minerals and forests, biodiversity, and eco-system health.” Data as of March 31, 2020 or FY2019. *Asterisk denotes SuMi TRUST Bank only (non-consolidated) 20 Sumitomo Mitsui Trust Holdings, Inc. 2020 Integrated Report Vision Materiality Management The circulation of capital is like the circulation of blood. If most interested in and for which the Group’s initiatives may capital is steadily accumulated in the same way blood flows face challenges. By doing so, we aim to further improve our freely around the body, the ability to generate value will initiatives and enhance the disclosure of information. continue to increase in a sustained fashion. With this kind Internal Engagement of image in mind, the factors that inhibit the circulation of capital and those that promote it were identified and deterEvaluation/engagement Financial matters mined by the Board of Directors as priority issues (materialNon-financial ity) that affect the value creation process over the medium Investors matters to long term. The departments in charge are usually tasked Evaluation ESG research institutions with managing materiality issues and making that process more sophisticated, but we also employ an internal Corporate Administration Department engagement process as a way of incorporating the viewHuman points of stakeholders. More specifically, the Sustainability Engagement Resources Non-financial matters Department Management Department engages in dialogue with relSustainability Management evant departments with respect to the non-financial mateDepartment Risk management-related In-house quasi-ESG investor departments, etc. riality topics in the finance sector that ESG investors are Reviewing materiality In October 2019 we formulated a new materiality list by integrating top risks (see page 102) managed thus far from a finanNew materiality (17 items) Previous Previous cial point of view with the materiality issues managed from a (1) Sort out duplicate or similar items top risks materiality (2) Review names if necessary non-financial perspective. (7 items) (14 items) (3) Add latest items Our policy is to make materiality management more sophisticated so that each type of capital tied to materiality circulates smoothly. In doing so, we aim to achieve balanced creation of (1) Technological innovation; (2) population decline and super-aged both social value and economic value and make certain of sussociety issues; (3) financial inclusion; (4) pursuing sustainability-themed business opportunities; and (5) climate change tained growth up ahead. OpporMain relevant capital Materiality Risk Key measures tunity All types of capital Corporate governance Framework for enhancing value over the long term Concerns about creditworthiness, deterioration in stock prices Preserving financial capital and property market Financial capital Acquiring sustained earnings Decline in profits in loan and deposit businesses Stability of financial system Avoiding systemic risk Risk management and resilience Identifying and managing risk, fostering a risk culture Manufactured capital Systems maintenance and combatting cyber attacks Cyber attacks, system development delays Bolstering human resources and developing workHuman capital Human capital, health of employees place environments Client information management, personal information protecProtecting personal information and client data tion Intellectual capital Safety of financial instruments Management of risks inherent in products Pursuing sustainability-themed business opportunities Development of social problem-solving products Technological (digital) innovation Advancing digital technology, preparing for digital disruptions Compliance Taking measures against anti-social forces, preventing crime Client-orientated approach / fiduciary duty Improving customer satisfaction, fair trading practices Considering impacts on society and the business Social and environment of companies to whom we extend investManaging negative impacts from investments and loans Relationship capital ments and loans Responding to the financially vulnerable, dementia-related Financial inclusion problems Population decline and super-aged society issues Improving the well-being of the elderly Natural capital Climate change Physical and transitional risks, carbon-free society Sumitomo Mitsui Trust Holdings, Inc. 2020 Integrated Report 21 Medium-Term Management Plan (FY2020–2022) We formulated the three-year strategy after reassessing the roles and functions expected of us as a financial group specialized in trust banking, as well as our own reason for existence (purpose) based on a long-term point of view. We recognize that taking on the mission of solving social issues arising from the multitude of changes occurring in society and the environment presents us with a growth opportunity, which is why we have placed at the core of our management philosophy the notion of balanced creation of both social value and economic value. We think the diversification of values in society and the growing number of uncertainties in the environment suggest that now is the right time for the SuMi TRUST Group to take on the mantle of providing trust schemes that can help achieve a safe and secure society. As the “Best Partner” most trusted by our clients, we intend to do everything we possibly can to pass on to the next generation a society that is even more capable of coping with change. Balanced creation of both social value and economic value To contribute to the sustainable development of society whilst achieving growth for ourselves, guided by our reason for existence (purpose) as a financial group specialized in trust banking Reason for existence (purpose) Creating new value with the power of trusts and let prosperous future for clients and society bloom Social issues Persistently ultra-low Initiatives of companies to Aging society interest rates address ESG management Changes in Advancements in Post-COVID-19 changes to the global economy digitalization social norms Towards the sustainable development of society Reasons behind the definition of the Group’s reason for existence (purpose) • In our new Medium-Term Management Plan, we will aim to actively adapt to changes in social structures and rapid advancements in digitalization to solve emerging social issues related to client assets by leveraging the functions and strengths of the Group. • As a financial group specialized in trust banking and boasting a high level of expertise, comprehensive capabilities, and wide array of functions, at any time in our history, we have consistently generated economic value through the creation of new value by finding solutions to social issues. • We defined the Group’s own reason for existence (purpose) after reaffirming that our mission is to plow this economic value back into society to generate even more growth for our clients and the Group, thereby contributing to the goal of creating a more affluent society for the next generation. 22 Sumitomo Mitsui Trust Holdings, Inc. 2020 Integrated Report Vision Positioning of Medium-Term Management Plan (expanding platform to achieve sustainable and stable growth) In our previous Medium-Term Management Plan running we intend to make further progress on the same initiatives from FY2017 through FY2019, we kicked off the transformation whilst also shoring up our business platform over the next of our business model to meet the needs of our diversifying three years with the aim of chalking up sustainable and stable client base; on the whole, we made steady progress on attaingrowth for the Group by aggressively tackling the social issues ing our quantitative targets and other objectives. Under the that confront individuals, corporations, and investors. new Medium-Term Management Plan commencing in FY2020, Autonomous improvement in Development of Sustainable and stable growth Vision ROE leveraging our business a sustainable society of the Group model’s strengths Guided by our management philosophy of balanced creation of both social value and economic value, the three-year plan period aims to shore up our business platform with the goal of realizing the development of a sustainable society and achieving sustainable and stable growth for the Group. Continue reforms to strengthen fee businesses Social issues to actively address New Asset administration suited for Japan’s aging society and asset formation of Mediumindividuals Term Individuals • Providing asset administration services that help find solutions to issues like dementia Manage• Supporting the asset formation for the working generation, particularly people still in ment the wealth creation stage of life Plan Sustainable growth of the Japanese economy and corporations (addressing both financial and non-financial issues) Corporations • Responding to various financial needs, strengthening the governance frameworks of business partners, and supporting their initiatives on sustainability Diverse range of investment opportunities and development of the investment chain Investors • Leveraging the Group’s strengths to enhance the appeal of our investment products, in addition to traditional assets • Providing efficient and high value-added services for a broad range of investment processes Previous Commenced business model transformation MediumTerm ManageImprove profitability and Strengthen ment efficiency of Improve OHR fee businesses Plan loans/investment business Sumitomo Mitsui Trust Holdings, Inc. 2020 Integrated Report 23 Medium-Term Management Plan (FY2020–2022) Basic Strategies Under our Medium-Term Management Plan that kicks off in FY2020, we aim to step up our initiatives on further improving the sustainability and stability of growth by anchoring the management of the Group to three basic strategies. Balanced creation of both social value and economic value Generating positive impacts geared towards solving social issues Three basic strategies (1) Strengthening our business portfolio (reinforcing foundation for sustainable and stable growth) Strengthen business foundation Establish new areas of growth • Commitment towards solving client problems • Innovation through cross-divisional businesses and • Expansion of client base integrated domains • Strengthening capabilities to provide solutions to social issues Strategic resource mix • Expenses control/reduction, pursuing efficiency through utilization of capital • Optimal allocation of management resources (2) Capital strategy (balance sheet, efficient use of capital) Balance capital sufficiency Strengthen shareholder returns Improve efficiency of balance sheet and efficiency through dividends (3) Sophistication of business quality (ability to create new businesses and improve existing businesses) Nurture human resources Service quality that Strengthen Prudent risk management capable of maximizes client value group governance creating added value Unified and integrated operation of materiality management and business strategies (sophistication of management systems = improved functionality of value creation process) 24 Sumitomo Mitsui Trust Holdings, Inc. 2020 Integrated Report Vision (1) Strengthening our business portfolio (reinforcing foundation for sustainable and stable growth) • Strengthen business foundation We aim to create more opportunities to provide new products, services, and total solutions based on long-term, inclusive relationships of trust with existing clients. In addition, we will endeavor to gain new clients and build up AUM mainly in the Group’s areas of expertise. Through these initiatives we hope to meet the needs of clients and society and continue to generate economic value that underpins the sustainable growth of the Group. • Establish new areas of growth In light of the issues expected to arise in the future and the needs of clients that are rising to the surface, we will pursue renewed growth by establishing businesses that deliver solutions to such problems right across our business portfolio. So that we can harness the business creativity of intersecting and melding businesses and functions—one of our traditional strengths—we intend to reorganize SuMi TRUST Bank, the entity at the heart of the Group, and undertake resource allocation and risk taking in an intensive fashion. • Promote strategic resource mix We will push ahead with the optimal allocation of a diverse mix of managerial resources to areas that need them the most in an effort to further strengthen and streamline the Group’s management structure. In addition to making effective use of capital and advancements in digital technology, we will also aim to flexibly combine management resources within the Group to build a resilient organization that balances both optimum allocation and maximized use of resources. Strengthen business foundation Seven existing business domains Retail TS Establish new areas of growth Areas in which we seek growth by Wholesale TS crossing and merging business domains Wholesale AM Private banking Stock Transfer Agency Fiduciary Asset formation advisory, work place Real Estate Innovation corporate promotion Global Markets Investor solution Strategic resource mix Dynamic shift of resources to growth areas Sumitomo Mitsui Trust Holdings, Inc. 2020 Integrated Report 25 Medium-Term Management Plan (FY2020–2022) (2) Capital strategy (balance sheet, efficient use of capital) • Whilst maintaining sufficient capital, we aim to be more aggressive in our use of strategic investments, step up our use of active capital strategies, for example by reducing strategic shareholding shares and controlling risk assets, and push ahead with capital policies that strike the right balance between financial soundness and capital efficiency. • We intend to control risk assets mainly by accelerating asset turnover, step up efforts to diversify our structure on foreign currency procurement, and continuously work on improving profitability in credit portfolios for both individual and corporate clients. • We will emphasize the return of profits to shareholders via dividends and aim to bolster shareholder returns in line with sustainable and stable profit growth. Shareholder returns 50 (%) 46.7 44.3 40 40.0 37.4 35.9 35.7 30 40.9 40.2 32.1 34.5 20 30.3 29.3 29.6 30.0 30.5 27.2 10 0 Dividend payout ratio Total payout ratio 600 (¥100mn) (¥) 180 150 150 400 140 120 130 130 130 120 100 85 90 200 60 0 0 FY2011 FY2012 FY2013 FY2014 FY2015 FY2016 FY2017 FY2018 FY2019 FY2020 FY2021 (actual) (actual) (actual) (actual) (actual) (actual) (actual) (actual) (actual) (forecast) onwards Total dividend payouts (Left) Amount of share repurchases (Left) Dividend per share (Right) (3) Sophistication of business quality (ability to create new businesses and improve existing businesses) • As a financial group specialized in trust banking, we will aim to strengthen our client-oriented and customer satisfaction initiatives as a source of differentiation, integrate the units that handle fiduciary duty and CS (customer satisfaction) operations, enhance business quality management capabilities, and endeavor to instill greater employee awareness, including risk culture, at our branches. • We will seek to make Group-wide business management more sophisticated mainly in the areas of HR, finance, and risk management, taking into account changes in the operating environment, new regulatory requirements, and the growing importance of Group strategies. 26 Sumitomo Mitsui Trust Holdings, Inc. 2020 Integrated Report Vision Key Performance Indicator (KPI) FY2019 Medium-Term Management Plan vision Longer-Term (actual) (FY2022 targets) targets Acceleration of business model transformation / Net business profit ¥289bn ¥290bn growth driven by crossing and merging Net income ¥163bn ¥190bn Sustainable and stable growth Performance indicators (consolidated) Lower Future investments in tandem with Upper 50% OHR (overhead ratio) 61.10% 60% range expense control range Stably Common equity tier 1 Mid9.70% Ensuring capital sufficiency maintained in capital ratio*1 10% range 10% range Return on equity*2 6.25% Around 7% Aiming for autonomous improvement in ROE Around 9% Stably Upper Fee income ratio 54.60% 50% range Strengthening steady fee income maintained above 60% Emphasis on returning profits to shareholders Dividend payout ratio 34.50% Around 40% via dividends in line with earnings growth / bolstering shareholder returns Individuals 260,000 290,000 Strengthening our base of “Pre-Best Partners,” the stage needed Client base if we are to build healthy relationships and boost our number (“Pre-Best 590 720 of clients that ultimately choose the SuMi TRUST Group as their Partners”) Corporations companies companies “Best Partner”*3 over the long-term or in a continous manner Base KPIs Responding to society following the COVID-19 Responding to changes in society and methods of communication pandemic 1.85mn 2.38mn as a result of the COVID-19 pandemic in an effort to improve the (individual clients level of convenience for clients and boost productivity in the Group using non-face-to-face channels*4) *1 Based on finalized Basel III standards *2 Changed from “Shareholder ROE”. Impact of change roughly –1%. *3 How our clients view the SuMi TRUST Group *4 Clients using internet banking or the Life Guide internet portal Sumitomo Mitsui Trust Holdings, Inc. 2020 Integrated Report 27 Message from Head of Finance Hitoshi Sato Managing Executive Officer & Head of Finance Sumitomo Mitsui Trust Holdings 1. Review of FY2019—the final year of our FY2017–2019 Medium-Term Management Plan In FY2019, net business profit before credit costs on year to ¥163.0 billion, mainly because in light of the increased ¥6.7 billion year on year to ¥289.0 billion, which uncertainties about what kind of impact the COVID-19 panwas more or less in line with our forecast. This was mainly demic will have on the earnings of our client companies, attributable to growth in non-interest income related to the Group booked special loan loss provisions of some business for corporate clients and brisk results in real ¥25.0 billion (around ¥17.0 billion after tax) as a preventive estate, fiduciary services, and other trust-related busimeasure against the sectors and businesses expected to nesses, which overall offset a decline in income from be hardest hit. If we were to exclude the impact of booking investment management consulting for individual clients. special loan loss provisions, we attained, or nearly attained, Meanwhile, net income attributable to owners of the parour targets for both net income attributable to owners of ent fell short of our forecast, decreasing ¥10.8 billion year the parent and shareholder ROE. FY2016 FY2017 FY2018 FY2019 (¥ bn) (actual) (actual) (actual) Forecast Actual (excl. special provisions) Net business profit before credit costs 232.3 270.5 282.2 290.0 289.0 Net income attributable to owners of the parent 121.4 153.9 173.8 180.0 163.0 Roughly 180.0 Shareholder ROE 6.07% 7.4% 7.95% Around 8% 7.12% 7.8% Looking back on the three years of our previous MediumFee businesses Term Management Plan, our fee businesses performed Stable income ratio FY2016 FY2019 strongly. In particular, the stable income ratio for recurring (mainly recurring revenue) 74.1% 76.7% revenue as a percentage of net fees and commissions and related profit steadily increased. We also made progress on improving profitability in our loan/investment businesses, Loan/investment businesses mostly in the area of foreign currency-denominated loans. Foreign As of March 31, As of March 31, We also kept our overhead ratio roughly in line with plan. currency-denominated 2017 2020 While some challenges have now become apparent, for loan spread 0.94% 1.10% example, we need to offer more in-depth solutions to indi(managerial accounting basis) vidual clients depending on their age group and further improve capital efficiency of loan assets based on the finalExpenses ization of Basel III regulations, my overall assessment of the Overhead ratio FY2016 FY2019 previous Medium-Term Management Plan is that for the (OHR) most part, we achieved our key initiatives and KPIs. 64.5% 61.1% 28 Sumitomo Mitsui Trust Holdings, Inc. 2020 Integrated Report Vision 2. Resilience Our management resilience is once again being quesFor the former, we can point to the establishment of a tioned as a result of the growing uncertainties stemming fee revenue base that boasts a high stable fee ratio based from the COVID-19 pandemic. I am confident that the on a long-standing and solid client base comprising both SuMi TRUST Group is endowed with a comparatively high individual and corporate clients primarily in our trust-relatlevel of resilience in terms of our business foundation and ed businesses. risk management practices. Hedging transactions on strategic shareholdings Impact of share price declines (December 31, 2019–March 31, 2020) • Hedge ratio*2 as of March 31, 2020 was 75% •H edge effect mitigated deterioration of overall profit/loss (¥ bn) As of December 31, As of January 31, As of February 29, As of March 31, 0 2019 2020 2020 2020 Decline of approx. ¥30bn Overall (100.0) P/L*1 Overall profit/loss deterioration of approx. ¥220bn (200.0) mitigated (300.0) No hedging (assumed) Hedging (actual) *1 Total of change in profit/loss and realized profit/loss (profit/loss on sale) since the end of December 2019 *2 Percentage against market value of strategic shareholdings “Hedging” data based on strategic shareholdings and strategic shareholdings hedge fund; “no hedging” data based on strategic shareholdings only As for risk management operations, we continue to policy that applies to loans extended to either individual minimize as much as possible risks related to strategic or corporate borrowers. Most of our loans to individuals shareholdings, for example. As a result, even when share are mortgage loans for high-income earners, while the prices nosedived from the end of December 2019 through lion’s share of corporate credit goes to first-rate domestic to March 2020, we were able to avoid significant valuation companies. And for product-related assets such as project and realized losses in our equity portfolio. For credit risk finance—an area of focus for our overseas portfolio—we management too, we have endeavored to curb downside have continued to strengthen our practices with respect to and credit concentration risks under a stringent credit safety and diversification of risk. Overall picture of credit portfolio ¥31.33trn Breakdown of product loans (foreign currency) Loans to individuals More than 90% are high quality mortgage loans ¥10.44trn Product loans (foreign currency) Project finance Highly diversified portfolio 24% ¥2.86trn Other Corporate credit (foreign currency) credit investments ¥3.54trn 14% Roughly 85% are to Japanese companies overseas CLOs ¥3.11trn Real estate (collateralized loan Product loans (yen) non-recourse loans obligation) 10% Aviation 18% Selective approach with emphasis on safety ¥11.36trn finance Leveraged Corporate credit (yen) 13% loans Mainly to good-standing domestic companies 6% As of March 31, 2020 Sumitomo Mitsui Trust Holdings, Inc. 2020 Integrated Report 29 Message from Head of Finance 3. Basic strategies in our new Medium-Term Management Plan (FY2020–2022) Our new Medium-Term Management Plan that kicks off Maintain and expand net business this fiscal year hinges on the following three basic strategies. profit before credit costs Increase mainly owing to Below I discuss each in turn from a financial point of view. system upgrades and Upfront investments regulatory compliance (growth areas, future streamlining) (1) S  trengthening our business portfolio (reinforcing Around Around foundation for sustainable and stable growth) +¥10.0bn ¥(10.0)bn Around ¥475.0bn +¥7.0bn In order to strengthen our business foundation and Around establish new areas of growth in existing business domains, +¥13.0bn we will look to optimally allocate and shift management Curbing/reducing legacy costs resources, including human capital, IT & equipment, and ¥453.6bn financial capital, and pursue a strategic resource mix by Increase in expenses on distributing, circulating, and integrating resources between higher gross profit businesses. During the period of this Medium-Term Management Plan, we plan to counteract an increase in costs arising from system upgrades and regulatory compliance by reducing legacy costs centering on office FY2019 (actual) FY2022 (target) expenses and also secure room for upfront investments Substantial gross business profit Expenses designed to establish growth areas and keep a lid on future overheads. That said, our policy going forward will Capital sufficiency Pursue the Capital efficiency best balance be to accelerate our review of the resource mix with a view Common equity tier 1 ROE capital ratio* Around 7% (FY2022 target) to how we communicate with our clients in the new normal Stably maintain in the 10% range Around 9% (mediumto (mediumto long-term target) long-term target) of a post-COVID-19 era. For FY2022 we target a consolidated overhead ratio (OHR) in the lower 60% range and upper 50% over the medium to long term. Business strategies Capital management Return of profits to shareholders • Strategic investments • Strengthen shareholder • Strengthen fee businesses (external growth, efficiency returns through dividends (2) C  apital strategy (balance sheet, efficient use of capital) • Improve profitability vs. improvements) whilst striking the right risk assets • Flexible and expeditious balance with capital accuThe objective of the Group’s capital strategy is to strike share repurchases mulation the best balance between capital sufficiency and efficiency *Based on finalized Basel III standards 30 Sumitomo Mitsui Trust Holdings, Inc. 2020 Integrated Report Vision with the following three measures: (1) improving profit(3) Sophistication of business quality (ability to create ability against the cost of regulatory capital through our new businesses and improve existing ones) business strategies; (2) effectively utilizing capital; and (3) The sophistication of business quality rests on a twostrengthening shareholder returns through dividends. In pronged approach involving the enhancement of the aiming to achieve this best balance, our plan calls for a Group’s business management together with the maxiFY2022 common equity tier 1 capital ratio (finalized Basel III mization of added value for our clients, or in other words, standards) in the mid-10% range and a ROE of around 7%. the enhancement of service quality. For the latter, as a The first measure above will be driven by two initiatives: financial group specialized in trust banking, we will work strengthening the liquidation of loan assets and ongoon giving shape to our management philosophy of baling reductions in strategic shareholdings. For the second anced creation of both social value and economic value measure, our policy will be to aggressively execute strateby improving the quality of, and differentiating, our sergic investments designed to tap external growth opporvices in mainly fee businesses. Even though we only foretunities and improve the efficiency of operations in each cast a slight increase in net business profit before credit business. The third measure (discussed further below in 4. costs in FY2022 compared to FY2019, by pushing ahead Shareholder returns policy) will be implemented in conwith initiatives that bring about qualitative improvements junction with continuous share repurchases whilst maintainand enhancements to our bottom line, we hope to lay the ing an optimal balance with the first two measures. foundation for growth during the next three-year period. 4. Shareholder returns policy Based on the recognition that we are now much closer to a and carry out share repurchases in a flexible and expeditious phase during which we can actively utilize the capital we have manner from the viewpoint of effectively utilizing capital. steadily accumulated thus far, from FY2020 we decided to make When considering the repurchase of shares, we will changes to our policy on returning profits to shareholders. comprehensively take into account the following three facIn our new shareholder returns policy, we intend to further tors: (1) capital sufficiency; (2) balance with strategic investclarify our stance on emphasizing dividends as a means for ments; and (3) the Company’s share price. returning profit to shareholders in line with earnings growth, Going forward, as a financial group specialized in trust raise our consolidated dividend payout ratio target from banking, we aim to steadily enhance returns to shareholdaround 30% at present to around 40% in or around FY2022, ers in step with the Group’s sustainable and stable growth. Shareholder returns policy Our approach remains the same as before: Aim to bolster shareholder returns in line with the Group’s goal of sustainable and stable profit growth. Changes to shareholder returns policy: Before After Consolidated dividend payout ratio Around 30% Around 40% in or around FY2022 Flexibly buy back shares from the viewpoint Share repurchases Around 10%* of effectively utilizing capital *Ratio of amount of shares acquired versus net income attributable to owners of the parent this fiscal year 5. In conclusion Not only has the COVID-19 pandemic prompted us to be called into question more than ever before. reassess the need to be prepared for a whole host of uncerFrom a financial perspective too, the Group will continue tainties, I believe it will also be a catalyst for change and to help maximize positive impacts on various stakeholdopen up new opportunities for the Group, such as heighters by appropriately controlling financial risk, promoting ened demand for asset administration services, increased a strategic resource mix, and actively making effective digitalization, and acceleration of non-face-to-face channels use of capital. We therefore aim to shore up our business deployment. In addition to the resilience derived from our foundation during the three years of the Medium-Term business model and risk culture that I touched upon above, Management Plan with the goal of realizing sustainable in this day and age, our ability to take up the challenge of and stable growth of the Group and further boosting our business innovation, and the speed at which we do so, will presence in the financial sector. Sumitomo Mitsui Trust Holdings, Inc. 2020 Integrated Report 31 Special Feature 1. Initiatives on active participation of specialists With our sights set on being the No.1 financial group for human resource development, the Group established its Human Resources Development HR development HR participation Policy (TRUST)* in April 2018. Guided by this Policy, we also aim to be No.1 No.1 the No.1 financial group for human resource participation, where all employees in our diverse workforce can play an active role. One source of value creation in the SuMi TRUST Group—a throughout Japan. financial group specialized in trust banking—is human capital. To earnestly address the issues of our clients in their 100We aim to form pools of employees and improve their skills so year lives and embody as best as possible the spirit of being they can leverage their significant expertise and comprehencompletely client-oriented—one of the values that make up sive capabilities to deliver total solutions to clients. the Group’s Codes of Conduct—our financial consultants do Financial consultants that possess high-level, specialist skills more than just professionally engage in the management and are one of the pools we have aspirations for. Financial consuladministration of client assets. They are expected to stay in tants boast a high level of expertise and a wealth of expericlose contact with clients facing wide-ranging issues, offer new ence; they are professional employees unique to trust banks value, and demonstrate leadership of the entire organization. and are capable of shrewdly managing client assets or proposAt SuMi TRUST Bank, employees that demonstrate a high ing prudent asset administration and inheritance services. level of expertise are certified as Fellows and a framework that Trust banks are characterized by not only deposits and savreflects their skills in the employment benefits they receive has ings, but also their ability to provide comprehensive advice been introduced. This same framework also applies to financial about inheritance, real estate, and other types of assets; consultants. SuMi TRUST Bank extends added value to its clifinancial consultants, in particular, take on the role of consultents through its financial consultants because they possess not ing with clients in an all-inclusive manner regarding asset only expertise, but also human qualities. administration and inheritance. At SuMi TRUST Bank as of the *Refer to page 95 for more information about the SuMi TRUST Group’s Human Resources Development Policy. end of March 2020, there were 276 financial consultants active Active participation of specialists Demonstrating significant expertise and human qualities to help solve numerous client issues Satoshi Inaguma Fellow Supervisor Financial Consultant Nihonbashi Business Department/Tokyo-Chuo Branch What are your roles as a financial consultant? singlehandedly to a client’s requests with one-stop, customA financial consultant plays a central role in meeting the climade solutions. To propose the best solutions, the financial ent’s needs for asset administration and succession services. consultant, whenever necessary, will work in close cooperation The strength of a financial consultant is being able to respond with the businesses of SuMi TRUST Bank—which possesses 32 Sumitomo Mitsui Trust Holdings, Inc. 2020 Integrated Report significant expertise—and other Group companies, but at the best I could probably do is only the things based on my few end of the day, the client’s sole contact point in the Group is decades of experience. Some people say that the breadth and the financial consultant. This is the biggest difference with tax depth of the world of a single human being is proportionate to accountants, lawyers, and judicial scriveners. The Group aims how much that person reads. I think reading books enables a to further strengthen its asset administration and inheritance person to acquire the intellect and experience of pioneers, great services business in the future. SuMi TRUST Bank is certainly an minds, and people of great wisdom from the past and present so expert in this field and its financial consultants play a key role in they can stay on the right path as a human being and live their life the Group’s leading brand of trust. We, as financial consultants, more vigorously. hope to broadly promote our trust services to society through the asset administration and inheritance services business. Can you recall an occasion that led to the creation of value for a client?  what way do you recognize the social In There is an episode with a client seeking advice about asset issues faced by your clients? inheritance across two generations. The client in question was In an age of 100-year life, we are required more than ever concerned about a decline in the own decision-making capacbefore to meet the asset administration and inheritance serity in the future if dementia or some other illness became a vices needs of our elderly clients. SuMi TRUST Bank boasts factor. I have also learnt that the client would like to move in an extensive lineup of industry-leading solutions, such as will to a paid nursing home in the future. I therefore proposed to trusts and the 100-Year Life Solution Trust (also known as the the client the use of the 100-Year Passport as a way of avoiding 100-Year Passport), as well as a solid consulting track record, an asset freeze, introduced them to the Group’s affiliated paid so I think we are well placed to be the “Best Partner” for our nursing home, and made arrangements for one of our Group clients in this age of 100-year life. The 100-Year Passport is a companies, Sumitomo Mitsui Trust Realty, to appraise the trust product that incorporates a number of useful features value of the client’s home in preparation for sale. into one package so that clients can feel at ease in their 100Also, after enquiring about the client’s family, I came to year lives. To counteract the risk of assets freezing at the onset understand that the client wanted to leave some assets for of dementia, the person authorized to handle procedures on both children and grandchildren. Upon hearing this, I perbehalf of the client can withdraw funds for the payment of formed a trial calculation of how much the client could afford medical fees, nursing care expenses, housing costs, tax, and to gift to the grandchildren without impeding their own livelisocial insurance premiums. We continue to make clever use of hood and started the process for making a gift. such convenient products when proposing solutions to clients As part of this process, I suggested the use of life insurance in accordance with their needs. that comes with an annual donation option as a way of reducing the burden of having to enter into a gift contract every year, and I also proposed that the funds gifted to the grandchildren  you have something you always bear in Do be used to take out life insurance in preparation for the future mind as a professional? without being wasted in the near term. On top of this, a will was Any person incapable of considerately understanding a client’s drawn up so that the intentions of the client would be entrusted feelings is unlikely to be consulted on important matters by the and properly conveyed to the client’s children. client, no matter how much business knowledge they might posI felt that drawing on the broad-ranging functions of the sess. While it is certainly a good idea to be accredited with variGroup to offer in-depth advice to the client in an intimate ous licenses to obtain basic knowledge, after actually engaging in and helpful manner based on their concerns and wishes financial consultant work, I have come to realize that rather than was what led to the creation of value for the client and their relying on such knowledge, a degree of sensitivity is needed to extended family. empathize with the feelings and pain the client is going through. As a financial consultant myself, I think altruism is the most important thing. In other words, having a heart to help other people and show compassion. It is important that we must be willing to spare no efforts if it makes the client happy. On a daily basis I think seriously about what I could do to help the client, and having always incorporated those thoughts into my work seems to have naturally brought me a lot of consultation requests from clients. I also learn a lot from books. If I did not do any reading, the Sumitomo Mitsui Trust Holdings, Inc. 2020 Integrated Report 33 Special Feature 2. Initiatives to address digitalization edented major changes in society and the business environment—for example, the accelerated uptake of cashless payments, the non-contact, non-face-to-face provision of services, and the rebuilding of client contact points—a paradigm shift is drawing closer by the minute with the potential to furToshio Masui ther accelerate digitalization and change our mode of life and Executive Officer even the state of our industry. Sumitomo Mitsui Trust As we hurtle towards an age of VUCA (volatility, uncertainty, Holdings complexity, and ambiguity) characterized mainly by changes in consumption structures and client needs caused by changes The remarkable evolution of AI, big data, cloud computing, in, and diversification of, client sentiment and behavior, we will social media, blockchain, and other types of digital technology end up losing the support of our clients and society and follow is giving rise to new services and businesses thick and fast and a path to decline unless we ourselves set about transforming significantly changing our everyday lives. and rebuilding our organization and value chains. Various industries are seeing outsiders enter the market Based on our recognition of this operating environment, armed with digital technology, while game changers in mainly we aim to accelerate the pace of digital transformation as the retail industries are slashing prices. And the finance sector is driving force behind the creation of social value that helps no exception—it currently faces competition from FinTech solve social issues and the creation of economic value that companies. contributes to the growth of the Group. In the wake of the COVID-19 crisis, alongside the unprecDigital strategy in Medium-Term Management Plan — six strategic areas Under the basic policies of strengthening our business strengths and assets to open up new markets and businesses; portfolio and the sophistication of business quality in our and (4) disruption—look to establish new growth areas by utiMedium-Term Management Plan commencing in FY2020, we lizing new technology. have identified six strategic areas in which we will advance our In order to speedily and agilely drive forward each project in digital strategy. these four areas, we will also need to continue reinforcing our The following four areas will be promoted concurrently: (1) systems. For this reason, we have positioned (5) technology improvement—utilize mature technology and existing assets platforms & organizational structures, and (6) HR developto pursue mainly a radical overhaul of operations; (2) refinement & recruitment, as key strategic areas to be addressed ment—brush up existing businesses by utilizing new technolover the medium to long term. ogy and acquiring new assets; (3) reform—redeploy existing Six strategic areas Improvement in client loyalty Establishment of new growth areas Update Expansion of domains Opening up of new markets/businesses Emphasis Acquisition of Use of new Utilization and sophistication/ Digital asset businesses on democratization of Data science centers Blockchain real estate (security tokens, information banks) various trust banking data growth technology new assets AI-driven targeting Refine Disruption Inheritance platforms Improvement/reformation Acquisition of existing businesses of new earnings sources 2 4 Upgrade APIs, shift to cashless payments 1 3 Improvement Reform Sophistication/streamlining of Radical overhaul Uncovering new businesses Use of mature regulatory compliance using AI Contact center sophistication of operations from existing assets technology and Emphasis Enhanced client engagement RPA, AI, OCR on existing assets (personalized approach) earnings 5 Technology platforms & organizational structures Establishment of CoE* 6 HR development & recruitment Digital career hiring Digital Academy lectures *Center of Excellence 34 Sumitomo Mitsui Trust Holdings, Inc. 2020 Integrated Report Winners of IT Award in the transformation category SuMi TRUST Bank and Sumitomo Mitsui Trust Systems & Services usually difficult to deploy, the team got them were joint winners of an award in the transformation category in the running steadily, thereby delivering consider37th Information Technology Awards for 2019, hosted by the Japan able benefits to the entire Group. The award Institute of Information Technology. recognized that the RPA penetration process The IT Awards are presented to corporations and organizations has the potential to be the standard method of promoting business recognized to have made notable efforts to utilize IT in managetransformation and is suitable for broader implementation. ment innovation to achieve outstanding results. The potential award winners are assessed in the following categories: management, customer & business functions, social issue solutions, transformation, and open systems. SuMi TRUST Bank has automated operations equivalent to 230,000 hours annually with the use of more than 230 robotic process automation (RPA) tools. A dedicated team of a few dozen employees tasked with developing automation programs worked in close unison with many internal departments to create these software robots. Although Demonstration testing of faster inheritance procedures and automation of inheritance workflow; launch of online will trust service SuMi TRUST Bank is currently examining various options with the Launch of online will trust service aim of building trust business platforms capable of providing new While the smooth transfer of assets is still an issue for society, we are added value to clients. getting closer to an age in which anybody can draw up a will, largely thanks to the easing of will requirements under Japan’s Civil Code. Finance sector-wide joint testing to improve services with faster On October 1, 2019 we launched an online will trust service that inheritance procedures lets clients easily and conveniently begin the process of acquiring Inheritance procedures are likely to be an issue for society in a time information about will trusts and other services whenever and wherof 100-year life, so with the aim of making it easier and faster to comever they wish. plete the inheritance process, we are conducting demonstration tests Administrative Submission of Public pension in collaboration with multiple financial institutions that have endorsed procedures notification of death procedures the objectives of the project. Demonstration testing Inheritance Now Demonstration testing on automation of inheritance workflow Death Inheritance procedures We are currently utilizing digital technology to test whether we can Financial notification institution Easier and faster with automate the process of checking the information on a family register procedures Future use of technology in order to confirm heirs for inheritance processing. We have also filed Submission of Inheritance notification of death procedures an application for a business model patent as part of this initiative. Proof-of-concept construction of trust platform based on UXP information sharing technology SuMi TRUST Bank is currently considering the construction of a trust of Estonia, Mr. Jüri Ratas, paid a visit to SuMi TRUST Holdings on platform in collaboration with Cybernetica, one of the leading technolFebruary 10, 2020. Following discussions between Japan’s prime ogy firms in Estonia boasting state-of-the-art security technology. minister Shinzo Abe and Mr. Ratas on that same day, an official agreeCybernetica developed the information sharing technology known ment on joint collaboration was signed between the SuMi TRUST as UXP, which was used to expand and develop X-Road, the elecGroup and Cybernetica. tronic platform of the Estonian government. SuMi TRUST Bank has its sights set on utilizing this technology in its trust banking platform given the extremely high compatibility with the Group’s trust businesses, which currently provide a multitude of products and services to clients in various business domains such as banking, trusts, real estate, pensions, and stock transfer agency services, as well as providing and sharing a wealth of financial and non-financial information for transactions with a wide range of corporate and individual clients. Owing to our collaboration with Cybernetica, the prime minister Sumitomo Mitsui Trust Holdings, Inc. 2020 Integrated Report 35 Business Strategy Making full use of advanced expertise and comprehensive capabilities, the SuMi TRUST Group creates distinct values by leveraging a business model that combines its banking, asset management and administration, and real estate businesses. Group Structure Banking Loan/investment related business Fee business Corporate Credit Loans to Individuals Bank Deposits ALM Bond investment Banking business Trust related Sales of investment trusts Real Estate Loans business and insurance, etc. Management and administration of Will Trusts Asset securities, etc. Inheritance Services Real Estate Brokerage Pension Stock Transfer Real Estate Administration Agency Services Securitization Asset Management Real Estate and Administration Retail Total Wholesale Total Stock Transfer Real Estate Global Markets Solution Services Solution Services Agency Services Business Business Business Business Business Sumitomo Mitsui Trust Bank, Limited Sumitomo Mitsui Trust Major subsidiaries and affiliates Sumitomo Mitsui Sumitomo Mitsui Trust Tokyo Securities Panasonic Finance Trust Club Co., Ltd. Realty Co., Ltd. Transfer Agent Co., Ltd. Co., Ltd. Sumitomo Mitsui Trust Sumitomo Mitsui Trust Sumitomo Mitsui Trust Japan Securities Wealth Partners Co., Research Institute Loan & Finance Co., Ltd. Agents, Ltd. Ltd. Co., Ltd. Sumitomo Mitsui Trust Sumitomo Mitsui Trust Sumitomo Mitsui Trust Bank (Thai) Public Life Partners, Co., Ltd. TA Solution Co., Ltd. Company Limited Japan Stockholders SBI Sumishin Zijin Trust Co., Ltd. Data Service Company, Net Bank, Ltd. Limited 36 Sumitomo Mitsui Trust Holdings, Inc. 2020 Integrated Report Net business profit before credit costs by segment (FY2019) Retail Total Solution Services Business Fiduciary Services Business ¥ 22.8billion (including asset management) ¥ 65.8billion Global Markets Business Net business profit before credit costs ¥ 57.5billion ¥ 289.0 billion*1 Stock Transfer Agency Wholesale Financial Services*2 Services Business ¥ 132.5billion ¥ 18.4billion *1 This figure also includes corporate management department costs not categorized into any reportReal Estate Business able segment, in addition to net business profit ¥ 32.4billion before credit costs for each business *2 Wholesale Total Solution Services Business and Wholesale Asset Management Business Wholesale Asset Asset Formation Private Banking Fiduciary Services Asset Management Advisory, Work Place, Business Business Management Business Business Sumitomo Mitsui Trust Asset Management Co., Ltd. Sumitomo Mitsui Trust UBS SuMi TRUST Wealth Japan Trustee Services Nikko Asset (Hong Kong) Limited Advisory Inc. Bank, Ltd.*3 Management Co., Ltd. Sumitomo Mitsui Sumitomo Mitsui Trust Sky Ocean Asset Trust Bank (U.S.A.) Investment Co., Ltd. Management Co., Ltd. Limited Sumitomo Mitsui Trust Sumitomo Mitsui Trust JP Asset Management Real Estate Investment (Ireland) Limited Co., Ltd. Management Co., Ltd. Japan Pension Operation Service, Ltd. *3 J TC Holdings, Ltd. and Trust & Custody Services Bank, Ltd. was absorbed and merged into Japan Trustee Services Bank, Ltd. on July 27, 2020 and subsequently renamed Custody Bank of Japan, Ltd. Sumitomo Mitsui Trust Holdings, Inc. 2020 Integrated Report 37 SuMi TRUST Bank — President’s Message Masaru Hashimoto President Sumitomo Mitsui Trust Bank, Limited Creating new added value as our clients’ “Best Partner” Japan’s social structure is undergoing considerable change, driven mainly by the advent of an aging society and the advancement of digital technologies. Moreover, the impacts of COVID-19 have spread to all corners of the globe and there are concerns that they will linger for an extended period of time. These circumstances are forcing us to make all kinds of changes, particularly with regard to how we work and live. In this environment, the SuMi TRUST Group launched its new Medium-Term Management Plan spanning the three years from FY2020 through FY2022. Under this Plan, we will aim to proactively adapt to changes in the structure of Japan’s society and address new social issues head on in an effort to deliver solutions by drawing on the unique functions and strengths of the Group. From our perspective as the core company of the Group, SuMi TRUST Bank will push ahead with initiatives that help achieve sustainable and stable growth for the Group and contribute to the development of a sustainable society. Given the concerns in society about the prolonged impact of the COVID-19 pandemic, we aim to respond appropriately to the financing needs of our clients and provide steadfast support. Furthermore, we will continue to offer new products, services, and solutions based on the long-term, inclusive relationships of trust we have established with our clients. 38 Sumitomo Mitsui Trust Holdings, Inc. 2020 Integrated Report Business Strategy Going forward, we aim to step up transactions with new clients, regardless of whether individual or corporate, mainly in our existing areas of expertise, such as asset management and asset administration, and we will endeavor to expand our business foundation and establish new growth fields by combining our functions and services. To complement our existing seven businesses, this fiscal year we set up two new cross-divisional businesses—the Private Banking Business and the Asset Formation Advisory, Work Place, Business. The former will offer integrated solutions to wealthy clients based on our banking, trust, and real estate services, as well as the functions of other Group companies. The latter will offer individual clients, who are working at companies, services based on their stage in life. We also established two integrated domains: the first is the Innovation Corporate Promotion domain through which we provide various growth stage-based functions to companies still in the initial stage of growth; the second is the Investor Solution domain whereby we consolidate our knowhow regarding asset management proposals in each business and aim to deliver highquality proposals to individual and corporate clients. By assigning employees with high levels of expertise to these cross-divisional businesses and integrated domains, we can harness the unique functions of SuMi TRUST Bank that are already intertwined with our existing businesses to provide solutions that are truly required to meet the diverse and sophisticated needs of our clients. Considering the clouded outlook for the future, I think now is the very time we must demonstrate our varied expertise and comprehensive capabilities as Japan’s only financial group specialized in trust banking. We will continue to create new added value and grow with our clients towards a brighter future as their most-trusted “Best Partner.” July 2020 Sumitomo Mitsui Trust Bank, Limited President Sumitomo Mitsui Trust Holdings, Inc. 2020 Integrated Report 39 Retail Total Solution Services Business Message from Executive Officer To meet the wide-ranging needs of individual clients across different age groups, the Retail Total Solution Services Business, driven by high-quality, comprehensive consulting, provides various services unique to a financial group specialized in trust banking, such as asset formation and management, asset administration, and inheritance and succession. Seiji Iwakuma Senior Managing Executive Officer, Head of Retail Total Solution Services Business, SuMi TRUST Bank Executive Officer*, SuMi TRUST Holdings *Executive Officer as defined in our internal policy. Mediumto long-term vision As we approach an era in which more people will live to of each and every client by offering total consulting services be 100 years old, there is growing interest among our clients that take into account the attributes of assets and liabilities about leading long and fulfilling lives. At the same time, that change in accordance with the age and life events of worries and concerns about building wealth for the future our individual clients. and the administration of assets during old age are emergIn line with the Policies regarding the Fiduciary Duties of ing as issues for society across all age groups. the Sumitomo Mitsui Trust Group, we will endeavor to be By leveraging the significant expertise and broad range completely client-oriented and further enhance our profesof products and services that only a financial group specialsional capabilities that underpin our consulting services so ized in trust banking can provide, we aim to solve the issues that we may continue to grow together with our clients. Weighting of substantial gross business profit Net business profit before credit costs (¥ bn) 40.0 30.0 30.9 27.0 22.8 20.0 15.3 10.0 11.1 7.3 26% 0 2017 2018 2019 (FY) ¥192.7bn Non-consolidated* Consolidated Owing to an increase in administration fees and a decrease in investment trust and insurance sales fees in investment management consulting services, net business profit before credit costs fell ¥7.9 billion year on year to ¥7.3 billion on a non-consolidated basis and declined ¥8.0 billion to ¥22.8 billion on a consolidated basis. *SuMi TRUST Bank 40 Sumitomo Mitsui Trust Holdings, Inc. 2020 Integrated Report Business Strategy Business environment awareness  pread of COVID-19 pandemic, prolonged S S  trategic deployment centering on client-orinegative interest rates, lower fees on finanented total consulting unique to a financial cial instruments group specialized in trust banking Environment  eform of operational processes and branchR Opportunities  road client base, from people in the asset B awareness es to address mediumto long-term populaand Group formation stage of life through to seniors and issues tion decline and digitalization strengths  eightened need for asset formation and H property management in a super-aged society and the Group’s diverse lineup of products and services Key measures in Medium-Term Management Plan By earnestly tackling the issues in the lives of each and every client and providing accurate, total consulting according to age or life plan, we are intent on helping solve the issues of our clients and broader society in this impending age of centenarians. Initiatives on asset formation for clients of the Clients that hold a managed financial product working generation (Thousand People) 800 We will offer consulting services and deliver proposals that reflect the needs of each individual client, primarily taking into 600 440 441 account changes in how people work and live, as well as the 400 422 426 growing need to build wealth. We will aim to grow together 709 200 with our numerous clients by benefiting from their transactions 285 293 296 274 over many years and increasing their assets under management. 0 March 31, 2016 March 31, 2017 March 31, 2018 March 31, 2019 March 31, 2020 Asset formation generation + Pre/post retirement generation (under 65) Seniors (65+) *Clients of SuMi TRUST Bank that hold a managed financial product *Managed financial products: investment trust, discretionary investment management product, life insurance, foreign currency deposits Initiatives on asset administration and succession for Clients that hold an asset administration-type trust product senior clients (Thousand People) 300 We will offer consulting services and deliver proposals that 231 241 242 reflect the needs of each individual client, primarily taking into 200 200 account future concerns about dementia and health, as well as 167 various issues pertaining to next-generation inheritance and 100 succession. We will also make every effort to enhance our products and services so they contribute to the promotion of finan0 cial inclusion in Japan’s aging society, thereby providing safety March 31, 2016 March 31, 2017 March 31, 2018 March 31, 2019 March 31, 2020 and security to clients. *Clients of SuMi TRUST Bank that hold an asset administration-type trust product *Trust products: Will Trust, 100-Year Life Solution Trust (100-Year Passport), Tuition Fund Endowment Trust, etc. Channel optimization and streamlining of operations Improving efficiency of branch operations In aiming to expand consulting opportunities, we will aim to 70% reduction in branch back office work over five years from FY2017 Reassignment of an equivalent 1,600 employees to strengthen consulting roll out highly convenient client channels by reexamining our capabilities branch network and beefing up non-face-to-face and online<Reduction plan> FY2022 based quasi-face-to-face channels. Also, by reducing the volPhase 1 Phase 2 Phase 3 (introduction of tablet (extending device ume of work carried out at branch offices, we will endeavor to (further digitalization) devices for client visits) functionality, etc.) strengthen our consulting capabilities on the back of improved 10% reduction 50% reduction 70% reduction productivity and personnel reassignments. Achieved 40% reduction in FY2019 Sumitomo Mitsui Trust Holdings, Inc. 2020 Integrated Report 41 Retail Total Solution Services Business Sustainability initiatives Addressing the problems of a super-aged society with trust bank functions Owing to the advent of Japan’s super-aged society, increased fragility in the pension, social security, and other socio-economic systems that underpin livelihoods, as well as delays in offering appropriate financial services to senior citizens suffering from dementia or other illnesses, are likely to pose greater problems for the stability of people’s lives. By harnessing the functions and skills of a financial group specialized in trust banking, the Group will drive forward its high value-added solution services business to safeguard personal assets, secure sound living arrangements, and help ensure stability in the lives of seniors and their families. Establishment of 100-Year Life Solution Department Given the advent of the age of 100-year life, SuMi TRUST Bank established a 100-Year Life Solution Department with the goal of providing suitable solutions to address the various issues faced by our individual clients. The 100-Year Life Solution Department will aim to identify the increasingly diverse and complex needs of clients caused by changes in time horizons as a result of longer living and develop and successively roll out a whole host of solutions by harnessing the unique know-how cultivated over many years as a financial group specialized in trust banking in an effort to deliver security, safety, and enjoyment to our clients. In addition, SuMi TRUST Bank established the Sumitomo Mitsui Trust Future Assets Institute for the purpose of examining and conducting research into the various needs and concerns pertaining to the building and utilization of assets required in an age when many people will likely live to be 100 years old. This new institute will aim to provide information about these activities to not only the Group’s clients, but to broader society. We are also accelerating measures to bolster organizations and systems so that we can meticulously meet client needs; for example, Sumitomo Mitsui Trust Life Partners, the insurance sales arm of SuMi TRUST Bank, opened a new Consulting Plaza for peaceful 100-Year life Plaza office in Shinjuku, and the Anshin Support Corporation was founded in order to help alleviate the future concerns of our elderly clients regarding mainly housing, healthcare, and nursing care. Gerontology exam Gerontology examines the various issues that occur as people age and is a field of study characterized by interdisciplinary viewpoints aimed at investigating ways to help people lead better lives. At SuMi TRUST Bank, since 2014 it has been mandatory for all branch managers to sit and pass a gerontology exam run by the Society for Applied Gerontology-Japan. From 2019, however, this requirement was extended to deputy general managers, section managers, and financial consultants. As a result, the number of employees that have passed the test has increased sharply to 912 people as of the end of February 2020. Proposing housing options Housing holds the key to whether or not the elderly can maintain quality of life and enjoy peace of mind. The SuMi TRUST Group provides information about housing options that cater to the needs of senior-generation clients and offers its assistance to ensure housing stability by making full use of the Group’s wide array of functions. We go into more detail about housing options in one of our reports on supporting the senior generation (Considering Senior-Generation Housing—V2.0). Silver College seminars SuMi TRUST Bank invites leading experts in various fields to speak at its Silver College seminars so that the senior generation and the clients that support them may acquire information about leading a reassuring and fulfilling “second life.” Since 2012, 201 seminars have been held throughout Japan, attended by approximately 6,100 participants (as of March 31, 2020). Topics covered have included money, health, dementia, and housing, while the lectures given by our group of first-rate instructors have been favorably received on every occasion. Silver College seminar in progress (Okayama, November 2019) 42 Sumitomo Mitsui Trust Holdings, Inc. 2020 Integrated Report Business Strategy Addressing dementia issues The number of people with dementia in Japan is rising sharply as the population continues to age—roughly one in seven people aged 65 or older, or around one in four if including those that show signs of the early stages of dementia known as mild cognitive impairment. From the viewpoint of normalization, SuMi TRUST Bank implements various initiatives with the aim of creating a society in which clients with dementia can still lead a life that is not dissimilar to normal individuals. For example, we collaborate with academia to develop new products and encourage employees to take part in dementia support training courses. In one of our reports on supporting the senior generation (Considering the Problems of Dementia—V2.0), we provide some easy-to-understand explanations about estate management in preparation for the onset of dementia. This report sheds light on not only our own products, but also the lineup and various functions of estate management schemes, including public services. It has been favorably received by both clients and experts on the adult guardianship system thanks to its easy-to-understand explanations particularly regarding the timing of when contracts come into effect based on how far a person’s dementia has progressed. Collaboration with COLTEM SuMi TRUST Bank is actively incorporating medical, legal, and caregiving knowledge into its measures for addressing dementia by participating in the industry-government-academia project known as COLTEM (collaboration center of law, technology, and medicine for autonomy of older adults) and also collaborating with the Kyoto Prefectural University of Medicine, the leading entity of the project. The publication of our Guide for Dementia Friendly Financial Services in September 2017 is one accomplishment of this initiative. We have also contributed to improving the entire financial industry’s response to dementia issues by taking the lead in hosting symposiums with a focus on finance and dementia. The knowledge gained from these alliances have greatly helped SuMi TRUST Bank develop its own products and services. Development of 100-Year Life Solution Trust (100-Year Passport) With society approaching an age of more centenarians, SuMi TRUST Bank developed this trust product by incorporating a number of useful features into one package in preparation for decreased decision-making capacity among many clients in the future. It offers a host of useful features to combat the problems elderly clients may face, such as withdrawing from their bank account, when the ability to make decisions has declined because of dementia or other similar illnesses. We also engage in broad-ranging client-focused consulting, including the provision of tie-up solutions under the adult guardianship system. Development of Trust for Single Old Age (Solitary Trust) SuMi TRUST Bank launched a one-stop service, based on a final letter of instruction, for clients worried about those around them if by some chance they die and certain matters need to be taken care of after their death, such as a funeral service, burial, the deletion of so-called “digital remains,” sorting of household belongings, obituary, and delivery of pets to new owners. The number of elderly people living alone is on the rise owing to longer life expectancies and a greater percentage of people never marrying. SuMi TRUST Bank’s service aims to help eliminate concerns about what-if scenarios and support improvement in QOL for clients. Support that extends beyond the framework of finance Utilize the power of trusts and flexibly develop services that extend beyond the framework of finance to cater to the varied needs of seniors Trust for Single Old Age (Solitary Trust) (launched December 2019) Trust Anshin Support Corporation Provides non-financial-related services (established November 2018) (post-mortem procedures) *Refer to pages 46–56 in our 2019/2020 ESG Report for more information about how we are addressing the problems of a super-aged society. Sumitomo Mitsui Trust Holdings, Inc. 2020 Integrated Report 43 Wholesale Total Solution Services Business Message from Executive Officer As a general provider of broad-ranging solutions typical of a trust bank that address the increasingly diverse and complex financial and non-financial business issues of clients mainly as a result of greater ESG awareness, the Wholesale Total Solution Services Business contributes to the enhancement of corporate value for clients and helps solve social issues. Masahiro Tsuchiya Director, Senior Managing Executive Officer, Head of Wholesale Total Solution Services Business, SuMi TRUST Bank Executive Officer*, SuMi TRUST Holdings *Executive Officer as defined in our internal policy. Mediumto long-term vision The expectations for our corporate clients required by The SuMi TRUST Group excels in providing solutions business partners, employees, shareholders, and various that lead to improvements in corporate value based on other stakeholders have changed significantly, which is why non-financial information we have amassed thus far through it is becoming increasingly important to address the issues our banking and trust operations. In our new Medium-Term of each stakeholder in order to continuously enhance corManagement Plan, we will further strengthen our ability to porate value. This change is also manifesting itself in the offer solutions with the use of ESG, SDGs, and other nonway many companies around the world are endeavoring to financial information, and aim to contribute to the advancedisclose non-financial information, like ESG topics and the ment of our clients’ businesses in various fields as their SDGs, alongside financial data such as sales and profits. “Best Partner” and help solve issues in society. Weighting of substantial gross business profit Net business profit before credit costs (¥ bn) 150.0 132.5 123.4 116.6 100.0 102.8 89.1 95.3 50.0 28% 0 2017 2018 2019 (FY) ¥206.1bn Non-consolidated* Consolidated Mainly owing to higher net interest income from the accumulation of overseas credit investment assets and growth in non-interest income related to business for corporate clients, net business profit before credit costs rose ¥7.5 billion year on year to ¥102.8 billion on a non-consolidated basis and increased ¥9.0 billion to ¥132.5 billion on a consolidated basis. *SuMi TRUST Bank 44 Sumitomo Mitsui Trust Holdings, Inc. 2020 Integrated Report Business Strategy Business environment awareness Clouded outlook for the global economy  ood-standing client base characterized by G  ontinuing global excess liquidity, more C strong creditworthiness Environment stringent financial regulations Opportunities  ersatile and highly specialized compreV awareness F  inancial business model transformation drivand Group hensive solutions that only a financial group and issues en by digitalization strengths specialized in trust banking can provide based on the acquisition and analysis of non-financial information Key measures in Medium-Term Management Plan Stepping up ESG-oriented total solutions Perspective as an institutional investor Information disclosure We deliver total solutions that connect clients with stakeholdExperience in promoting sustainability Engagement ers, improve relationships, and enhance corporate value by as an issuer Integration into management drawing on our advantage of being able to interact with numerous stakeholders with whom we enjoy business relationships through banking and trust operations, in addition to our ability to provide a wide range of solutions. In particular, because our Information Engageclients have a keen interest in the topics of ESG and institutional disclosure ment and activist investors, we will set up a dedicated ESG organization at SuMi TRUST Bank to meet the needs of our clients. Integration into management Our goal is to contribute to the development of Japanese society as a whole by providing solutions to mainly ESG issues for our clients. Corporate credit portfolio plan Continued credit portfolio reform 25 (¥ trn) Despite mounting uncertainty regarding the future outlook Product loans (yen) for the global economy, we will continue to engage in appro20 Product loans 3.11 Growth in (foreign currency) priate balance sheet management so as to meet the capital 15 2.86 product loans Corporate (foreign currency) needs of our clients. 3.54 Corporate (yen) 10 We will aim to boost earnings by improving profitability instead of expanding the size of our balance sheet and in 5 11.36 addition to strengthening our approach to product-related 0 assets, we will continue to reform our credit portfolio with the March 31, 2020 March 31, 2023 objective of building a downside-resilient portfolio. Actual Target Promoting transactions with startup firms Strengthening initiatives in the area of startup firms With industrial structures changing due to the advancement Contribute to of digitalization and other factors, the presence of startups solving social issues and the new industries and values they create have become (open innovation) Trust asset even more crucial to Japanese economic growth. A dedicated Business Loans/equity unit (Innovative Corporate Promotion Department) has been established at SuMi TRUST Bank to offer various solutions to opportunities administration functions Expand future client base such firms based on their stage of growth. By properly catering to the needs of startup firms, we can help solve social issues, expand our future client base, and take steps towards bolsterStrengthen the Group’s innovation ing the Group’s own innovation. (digital transformation, etc.) Sumitomo Mitsui Trust Holdings, Inc. 2020 Integrated Report 45 Wholesale Total Solution Services Business Sustainability initiatives Total solutions geared towards solving ESG/SDG issues The sustainable growth of the Japanese economy and corporations (both financial and non-financial issues to be taken up) has been incorporated into the Group’s Medium-Term Management Plan as a social issue that warrants the attention of the Wholesale Total Solution Services Business. There has recently been a sharp influx in the number of companies ramping up growth strategy measures for addressing ESG/SDG topics. We intend to Linked to all 17 goals harness the sustainability know-how and networks honed thus far to support our clients in their efforts. of the SDGs Positive Impact Finance In Positive Impact Finance (PIF), we comprehensively analyze and assess the impacts (both positive and negative) of a client’s corporate activities on the environment, society, and economy and then work together with the client to set goals for mitigating the negative impacts and expanding the positive ones. The client then commits to achieving those goals as a condition for financing. In recognition of its initiatives for mainly developing a PIF product concept, in February 2020, SuMi TRUST Bank won the Gold Prize in the financing category of the Ministry of the Environment’s inaugural ESG Finance Awards Japan. As of the end of June 2020, we President Ohkubo with Japanese have concluded nine PIF transactions since the first one went through in March 2019. environment minister Shinjiro Koizumi ESG & integrated report consulting Information • Study sessions for executives and Sustainable Management provision Secretariat staffs By drawing on the insight as an institutional investor, • Analysis of challenges in ESG initiatives based on the thanks mainly to the long-time involvement of its anaAnalysis & evaluations by ESG assessment organizations evaluation lysts in the asset management business, together with • Comparative analysis against benchmark companies its viewpoints on, and experience in, promoting susSupport for • Support on materiality identification process tainability as an issuing entity itself, SuMi TRUST Bank improving • Support for materiality management practices (including initiatives proposals for strengthening management) is contributing to the achievement of a sustainable • Support for development of a framework for non-financial society by providing solutions that deliver total support Disclosure information disclosure on the most important points in advancing sustainable • Advice on the composition and content of integrated reports management; namely, integrating ESG into manageEngagement • Support for dialogue with institutional investors in Japan and overseas ment, information disclosure, and engagement. Environmental and energy finance There is a growing possibility that climate change-related businesses driving change in energy, transportation, and other social systems will have a much greater influence in a post-COVID-19 economy. In particular, increased adoption of renewable energy and other aspects of social infrastructure present enormous business opportunities. The SuMi TRUST Group is intent on accelerating its initiatives in this area. Renewable energy finance Through project finance, SuMi TRUST Bank facilitates the roll-out of large-scale projects, such as wind and solar power generation, and has set up and manages a renewable energy fund for the purpose of investing exclusively in large-scale renewable energy projects. In project finance, both offshore and onshore wind power generation projects overseas are increasingly large-scale endeavors. In Japan, the number of mega-solar projects has further increased. The total potential power generation capacity of projects SuMi TRUST Bank has been involved in comes to 15,140MW. These projects, with annual power output of 38,775GWh, reduces annual CO2 emissions by 18.50 million t-CO2. Micro-power generation in water supply systems Schematic diagram Purchases electricity at Sumitomo Mitsui Trust Panasonic Finance proposes Invests fixed price Generation Power the installation of micro-power generation systems in system makers transmission water supply systems across Japan as a way of promotPower provider and distribution ing regional measures to counteract global warming (maker subsidiary) operator with the use of natural energy. As of November 2019, Lease contracts project order/consignment the highly efficient power generation systems used in this scheme have been installed at 18 water faciliPays facility use fee, ¥ Project ties (including those scheduled for installation) across Sumitomo Mitsui Pays water flow fee contractor, O&M Japan to produce a total 480kW of power. We expect Trust Panasonic provider annual power generation to reach 3,581MWh and Finance Public water authority annual CO2 emissions to be reduced by 1,970t-CO2. 46 Sumitomo Mitsui Trust Holdings, Inc. 2020 Integrated Report Business Strategy Real Estate Business Message from Executive Officer In providing one-stop, optimal real estate solutions that solve the increasingly complex and diverse business challenges of our corporate clients and help individual clients build and manage assets, the Real Estate Business will continue to serve as our clients’ “Best Partner” for real estate. Shigeki Tanaka Senior Managing Executive Officer, Head of Real Estate Business, SuMi TRUST Bank Executive Officer*, SuMi TRUST Holdings *Executive Officer as defined in our internal policy. Mediumto long-term vision Leveraging our external networks with regional financial that have secured the top positions in Japan, form the infrainstitutions and overseas financial institutions has helped us structure that supports growth in the property investment attain the best track record in Japan for real estate brokerage market. These functions also help us achieve steady busiand consulting. For corporate clients, we will continue to proness continuity and fulfill our social mission. pose ways to utilize real estate assets to increase corporate Furthermore, we aim to contribute to the sustainable develvalue and help solve management issues. opment of society by enhancing the environmental performance In the area of real estate brokerage for individual cliof properties and providing environmentally friendly property ents, we will expand our offering of real estate information consulting services so that properties can be evaluated. according to the life stages of our clients and seek to maxiWe will seek to be our clients’ “Best Partner” for real mize the value of their assets. estate by meeting their needs in the new normal of a postOur real estate securitization trusts and J-REIT operations, COVID-19 era. Weighting of substantial gross business profit Net business profit before credit costs (¥ bn) 40.0 32.4 30.0 29.8 30.1 25.8 23.1 23.1 20.0 10.0 8% 0 2017 2018 2019 (FY) ¥56.9bn Non-consolidated* Consolidated Owing mainly to contributions from the steady flow of small and mid-size property brokerage transactions for corporate clients and stable earnings from brokerage services to individual clients, net business profit before credit costs rose ¥2.7 billion year on year to ¥25.8 billion on a non-consolidated basis and increased ¥2.2 billion to ¥32.4 billion on a consolidated basis. *SuMi TRUST Bank Sumitomo Mitsui Trust Holdings, Inc. 2020 Integrated Report 47 Real Estate Business Business environment awareness  onitoring real estate capitalization needs in M A  bundant specialized personnel and specialorder to solve management issues concernist staff with top-class experience and knowing the spread of COVID-19, as well as prophow in the real estate market erty procurement needs driven by weaker S  wift collaboration between businesses Environment real estate prices Opportunities unique to a financial group specialized in awareness  tepping up the development of an environS and Group trust banking and ability to propose and and issues ment for providing non-face-to-face solution strengths execute total solutions services to clients in Japan and overseas N  eutral position that makes it possible to F  ocusing on providing in-depth real estate build win-win relationships with regional services in line with the increase in the elderly financial institutions and overseas financial population and the number of inheritance cases organizations, etc. Key measures in Medium-Term Management Plan  otal solutions that contribute to the enhancement T Wide array of services that contribute to the enhancement of of corporate value and asset value for clients corporate value and asset value for clients We will aim to deeply understand our clients’ policies on Real estate buying and selling •Brokerage for leasing holding and managing properties, as well as how they relate •Brokerage for buying •Administration trusts to business strategies, so that we can enhance corporate value and selling Real estate Real estate administration •Real estate securitization trusts and asset value and help solve their management issues by management and management cycle providing optimal solutions. Services we offer include real •Facility management •Environmentally friendly estate brokerage, support on repairs, maintenance work, and Base restructuring property consulting Portfolio rebalancing rebuilding, facility management to streamline and normalize •CRE consulting property administration and management, and CRE (corporate •Property development and construcreal estate) consulting on office network strategies. tion consulting Strengthening alliance efforts Strengthening alliance efforts 600 (cases) 5,916 (cases) 6,000 We are expanding and energizing our alliances with domestic financial institutions, mainly those based in regional areas, and 4,129 4,357 400 4,000 also our external network with overseas financial corporations and major real estate firms. Through our tie-up with the UBS Group, we 534 200 2,000 will focus on providing real estate solutions to new clientele. 386 267 As real estate professionals, we will respond meticulously to 0 0 the real estate needs of the clients of our alliance partners that 2017 2018 2019 (FY) have no business relationship with the Group in an effort to solve Number of deals closed through alliances (Left) their issues, expand real estate transactions with new clients, and Number of new acquisitions of real estate information (Right) also contribute to the business of our alliance partners. Real estate for individual clients Sales of real estate resulting from an inheritance occurrence* SuMi TRUST Bank and Sumitomo Mitsui Trust Realty mainly 450 (cases) 11.4 (%) 12 10.8 work together on catering to the real estate buying and selling 9.1 300 8 needs of individual clients. Both the elderly population and the number of inheritances 422 428 150 347 4 in Japan is expected to increase up ahead. Accordingly, we will aim to harness the skills of the many qualified real estate trans0 0 action agents in the Retail Total Solution Services Business to 2017 2018 2019 (FY) strengthen our deployment of real estate services most likely Number of deals closed from inheritance occurrence (Left) required in an age of 100-year life. For example, supporting Share among all sales deals closed (Right) for the acquisition or sale of inherited properties for the next *Number of deals starting from inheritance occurrence among all the closed real estate generation or moving into barrier-free properties. sales deals of SuMi TRUST Bank’s individual clients 48 Sumitomo Mitsui Trust Holdings, Inc. 2020 Integrated Report Business Strategy Sustainability initiatives Environmentally friendly property initiatives The amount of CO2 emitted from the construction and management of buildings is said to account for approximately 40% of all CO2 emissions in Japan, including indirect emissions. And given that humans spend a lot of time indoors, indoor environments affect the health and productivity of occupants. As real estate has a significant impact on the environment, society, and the economy, integrated initiatives for achieving the SDGs are thought to be highly beneficial in improving the sustainability of these three aspects. The Group aims to further promote energy-efficient and resource-efficient cities and buildings, as well as the uptake of environmentally friendly properties that contribute to improving production efficiency. We will continue to advance initiatives that contribute to enhancing property value mainly through exceptional environmental performance, which boosts revenue and reduces risk. Links between environmentally friendly property and the SDGs Society Environment Economy (Indoor environment, health/comfort, (Energy, water, resources, biodiversity, etc.) (Property value, corporate value, etc.) safety/security, etc.) CASBEE certification support consulting Under the guidance of the Ministry of Land, Infrastructure, Transport and Tourism, CASBEE (Comprehensive Assessment System for Built Environment Efficiency) was developed as a method to evaluate and rank the environmental performance of buildings. SuMi TRUST Bank played a leading role in the development of CASBEE for Real Estate and also headed up a related economic impact study. We have actively rolled out certification support consulting services (see our lineup below) and we have provided support to around half of all cases of certification acquisition. Subsequently, we have focused on developing Japan’s environmentally friendly property market with CASBEE being the starting point. Environmental considerations in buildings Environmental considerations in urban development Specializing in health and comfort of office workers CASBEE for Real Estate CASBEE for Urban Development CASBEE-WO (Wellness Office) Construction-phase support on environmental considerations SuMi TRUST Bank commercialized Japan’s first land trust product in the 1980s and is involved in developing and managing many building and condominium projects. Our construction consulting services leverage this extensive experience. According to client requests, we offer advice on factoring in environmental considerations, such as the installation of energy-saving systems in buildings, ways to take into account landscapes and ecosystems, extending building lifespans, and the adoption of recycling systems. Hiroshima Orizuru Tower Shimane Bank (Hiroshima Prefecture) (Shimane Prefecture) Visualizing the value of smart towns and cities and supporting concept formulation In order to make smart towns and smart cities a reality, economic added value commensurate with higher costs must be created whilst establishing clear targets from the basic planning stage onward for environmental, social, and governance (ESG) issues. SuMi TRUST Bank supports projects for smart towns and cities on many fronts, such as devising frameworks that link various initiatives on environmental contributions to economic added value and formulating project concepts. Through our provision of financial functions such as home mortgages, we also help projects get executed. Fujisawa Sustainable Smart Town (Kanagawa Prefecture) *For more information, refer to our 2019/2020 ESG Report—Environmentally Friendly Property. Sumitomo Mitsui Trust Holdings, Inc. 2020 Integrated Report 49 Stock Transfer Agency Services Business Message from Executive Officer Centering on support services for corporate stock practices, the Stock Transfer Agency Services Business will further strengthen its solutions for management issues related to dialogue with institutional investors and corporate governance matters by leveraging the valuable data, information, and case studies gained from its client base—number one in the industry in terms of both the number of listed companies under management and the number of shareholders under administration. Atsushi Kaibara Director, Senior Managing Executive Officer, Head of Stock Transfer Agency Services Business, SuMi TRUST Bank Senior Managing Executive Officer, Executive Officer*, SuMi TRUST Holdings *Executive Officer as defined in our internal policy. Mediumto long-term vision With a core focus on corporate stock practices, we aim to owing to the rollout of Japan’s Corporate Governance consistently deliver sophisticated solutions across businessCode and Stewardship Code, we are strengthening, in an es to address the management issues of our clients regardintegrated fashion, our support services for corporate stock ing investor dialogue and corporate governance matters practices centering on general shareholder meetings and and realize sustainable growth models driven by even stronsupport services in three areas of consulting: IR/SR, goverger client solutions and improved customer satisfaction. nance, and executive compensation. In addition, we will look In order to satisfy the increasingly sophisticated and to contribute to the further enhancement of corporate and complex needs of clients, address societal demands, and market value for our clients by improving the accuracy of respond to the major changes in the business environment operations and providing optimum, high-quality solutions. Weighting of substantial gross business profit Net business profit before credit costs (¥ bn) 20.0 17.7 18.4 17.6 18.4 16.7 17.4 15.0 10.0 5.0 5% 0 2017 2018 2019 ¥37.4bn (FY) Non-consolidated* Consolidated Net business profit before credit costs remained generally flat year on year at ¥17.6 billion on a non-consolidated basis and ¥18.4 billion on a consolidated basis. This owed to a decrease in fees susceptible to market conditions, which offset record-high revenue from various consulting services. *SuMi TRUST Bank 50 Sumitomo Mitsui Trust Holdings, Inc. 2020 Integrated Report Business Strategy Business environment awareness Activization of dialogue with institutional investors N  umber one client base in the industry in terms of Adding substance to corporate governance measures both the number of listed companies under management and the number of shareholders under TSE market reforms Environment Opportunities administration Amendments to the Companies Act awareness and Group E  xtensive data acquired through Japan’s largest and issues Owing to the above-mentioned business environstrengths corporate governance and executive compensament, the needs of clients are diversifying and growtion surveys ing more sophisticated, thus requiring the provision C  ommercialization of growth fields utilizing our posiof swift and accurate solutions tion and know-how as a shareholder list manager Key measures in Medium-Term Management Plan Improving customer satisfaction to develop • 1,515 participating firms, the highest in Japan (roughly 40% of all listed companies) sustainable growth models • Supervised by Professor Emeritus Kunio Ito (Graduate School of Governance Business Administration, Hitotsubashi University), Japan’s leading We will conduct corporate governance and executive comsurvey authority on corporate governance reform pensation surveys which we have implemented since FY2017. • Indexing of statistical data that contributes to stronger governance + scoring-based analysis We will continue to help further strengthen governance prac• 928 participating firms, the highest in Japan (executive compensatices for our clients by ensuring that our surveys attract the Executive tion data for more than 17,000 people) greatest number of participating companies in Japan and by compensation • Survey covers compensation level, composition, evaluation systems, survey* frameworks, and even position-based compensation providing analysis results from multiple angles. *Conducted in collaboration with Deloitte Tohmatsu Consulting C  reating a sustainable growth model in the consulting field Given that companies are strongly requested to engage in constructive dialogue with institutional investors and reform their corporate governance practices, we intend to draw on the knowledge of J-Eurus IR Co., Ltd., which became a subsidiary of the Group in March 2020, to ensure more stable earnings by enhancing content and reinforcing our ability to provide information. Expanding our business platform Industry share in stock transfer agency services* (as of March 31, 2020) By further expanding our experience and expertise harnessed Number of listed companies Number of shareholders thus far to meet the needs of our client base—the largest in the under management under administration industry in terms of both the number of listed companies under No. 1 in industry No. 1 in industry management and the number of shareholders under administration—we aim to securely establish our position as the leading company in the stock transfer agency services industry. 42.3 42.9 Utilizing digital technology % % Considering the current advancements in digital technology, in addition to our provision of information on a face-to-face level, we will also aim to meet the needs of clients by provid*Total for SuMi TRUST Bank, Tokyo Securities Transfer Agent, and Japan Securities Agents ing information through non-face-to-face methods with the active use of digital technology. Sustainability initiatives Various forms of consulting Leveraging the industry’s biggest client base and the largest data in Japan provided by our corporate governance and executive compensation surveys, we support the activities of our clients by delivering solutions on corporate governance and dialogue with investors with mainly the following services: assistance on engaging in dialogue with Linked to all 17 goals institutional investors, support on board effectiveness evaluations, and executive compensation consulting. of the SDGs Sumitomo Mitsui Trust Holdings, Inc. 2020 Integrated Report 51 Global Markets Business Message from Executive Officer The Global Markets Business has three functions: client service functions (marketing and market-making operations such as interest rate and forex transactions and investment advisory), market functions (investment operations and financial management operations), and administrative functions. We combine these functions to leverage our significant expertise and comprehensive capabilities and provide services in a timely manner. Yoshinori Momose Managing Executive Officer, Head of Global Markets Business, SuMi TRUST Bank Executive Officer*, SuMi TRUST Holdings *Executive Officer as defined in our internal policy. Mediumto long-term vision There is growing uncertainty surrounding the financial The optimal solutions we offer our clients make use of markets at present mainly because of the monetary poliall the volatility management know-how of our group of cies of developed countries, economic trends in emerging experts, including knowledge of marketing and marketcountries, the global political situation, geopolitical risks, making operations, as well as technologies such as market and the outbreak of the COVID-19 pandemic. The assets risk control backed by many years of experience in investand balance sheets of our clients also harbor market risks, ment and financial management operations. but we will aim to protect the value of our clients’ assets by offering solutions with which to appropriately manage market volatility. Weighting of substantial gross business profit Net business profit before credit costs (¥ bn) 60.0 57.5 40.0 39.3 30.3 20.0 11% 0 2017 2018 2019 (FY) ¥81.9bn Non-consolidated* Mainly owing to brisk sales of client services for marketing and market-making operations and the non-recurrence of realizing US Treasury related unrealized loss booked a year earlier, net business profit before credit costs increased ¥27.1 billion year on year to ¥57.5 billion. *SuMi TRUST Bank 52 Sumitomo Mitsui Trust Holdings, Inc. 2020 Integrated Report Business Strategy Business environment awareness  arket turmoil stemming from COVID-19 M A  dvanced market and liquidity risk manageand geopolitical risks ment know-how Environment Opportunities C  ompanies entering overseas markets due E  merging currency forex hedging and remitawareness and Group to growth in emerging countries tance services and issues strengths D  emand for asset formation driven by an excess Investment solutions utilizing volatility manliquidity market and longer life expectancies agement technology Key measures in Medium-Term Management Plan Improving investment and ALM operations Strategy We seek to optimize the risk-return spectrum (earnings) by Qualitative approach Quantitative approach Investment drawing up versatile investment strategies suitable for all kinds Relative methodology Short of market phases and enhancing balance sheet management Regions value term Medium term Long s methodologies. We will also look to strengthen risk manageProducts vehicle Time sp term Inve stment an ment and earnings capabilities by using the latest digital technology to improve the speed and capacity of market analysis. Investment framework Strengthening proposals on market-based total solutions Clients Our market risk management know-how Financial markets Utilizing the technology and investment know-how with which we have managed the risks inherent on our balance sheet for Individuals Forex Market-based many years and providing this knowledge to our clients will total solutions Companies Interest rates enable us to solve both the Group’s own issues and those of Solving client issues together with ours our clients at the same time. We will continue to address client Funds Stocks/credit needs with total solutions unique to a trust bank. Improving financial literacy The Global Markets Business issues publications on an ongoing basis to deepen the understanding of a broad range of people regarding financial markets and financial products. We will contribute to our clients efforts on asset formation and the development of sound financial markets through improvements in financial literacy. Provision of market-based electronic trading platform We will continue to support best execution practices by offering our corporate clients ample liquidity and highly transparent prices for forex transactions via our electronic currency trading platform that can be accessed from the website of SuMi TRUST Bank. Sustainability initiatives Issuing green bonds and contributing to solar power generation projects SuMi TRUST Bank issues green bonds with the aim of accelerating sustainable finance initiatives concerning climate change, natural capital, environmentally friendly property, and other issues. In an effort to contribute to more widespread use of renewable energy, SuMi TRUST Bank also offers risk hedging transactions for solar power generation and other projects with the use of forex and derivatives. Sumitomo Mitsui Trust Holdings, Inc. 2020 Integrated Report 53 Wholesale Asset Management Business Message from Executive Officer To address the asset management difficulties caused by changes in social structures and the financial environment, as well as the management issues caused by these developments, the Wholesale Asset Management Business offers corporate clients total solutions unique to a financial group specialized in trust banking, encompassing both assets and liabilities. Kengo Noguchi Director, Senior Managing Executive Officer, Head of Wholesale Asset Management Business, SuMi TRUST Bank Executive Officer*, SuMi TRUST Holdings *Executive Officer as defined in our internal policy. Mediumto long-term vision As the graying of Japan’s population and other mediumIn particular, we aim to launch win-win collaborative busito long-term socioeconomic structural changes continue nesses with mainly regional financial institutions that have to steadily progress, we recognize that the business chala strong presence in regional economies so that they can lenges of financial and non-profit organization clients are make use of the Group’s wide array of functions, like our growing increasingly complex. This is particularly apparent inheritance, succession, and real estate services. We will also now that we are on the cusp of a “new normal” brought on look to contribute to the building of sustainable ecosystems by the COVID-19 pandemic. mainly by taking steps to solve the issues of regional comIn aiming to solve the issues of our clients in this new munities through collaboration with schools and local govbusiness environment, we aim to be an indispensable and ernments—the best sources of local knowledge. reliable “Best Partner” by providing asset management We will endeavor to expand our lineup of differentiated solutions driven by shrewd consulting and thoroughgoing investment products by focusing on the development of follow-up services, as well as total solutions that leverage new products using private assets that invest in unlisted the diverse wealth administration functions unique to a shares (private equity) and real assets such as aircraft and financial group specialized in trust banking. real estate to generate mediumto long-term investment returns and the expected benefits of risk diversification. Business environment awareness  ddressing the business challenges of cliA  rovision of asset management solutions P ents; namely, globally low interest rates, centered on consulting services encompassan aging population, and other changes in ing both assets and liabilities and an extensocial structures, and adapting to the new sive product lineup Environment normal of living with COVID-19 Opportunities P  rovision of total solutions that leverage awareness C  ontinuing to take on the challenge of boostand Group the diverse wealth administration functions and issues ing our competitiveness in the constantly strengths unique to a financial group specialized in evolving asset management industry trust banking to address business challenges C  ontributing to the sound development of  in-win collaboration with mainly regional W regional economies and achieving the SDGs financial institutions (for example, tackling environmental issues) 54 Sumitomo Mitsui Trust Holdings, Inc. 2020 Integrated Report Business Strategy Key measures in Medium-Term Management Plan “Best Partner” for financial and non-profit organizations Wholesale Asset Management Business — AUM Given that the challenging asset management market con(¥ trn) 12 Over ¥11trn ditions continue to linger, we will pursue a business model with which we can grow together with our clients by targeting growth in AUM as one KPI and offering optimal portfolio solu8 tions best suited to their financial attributes. Furthermore, to address the business management issues of 4 our clients, we will aim to be their “Best Partner” by leveraging our real estate know-how and other various functions and also by developing beneficial solutions in numerous fields with the 0 help of our external partners. March 31, 2017 March 31, 2018 March 31, 2019 March 31, 2020  rowing the asset management business with G private assets Private asset products — AUM Given the entrenchment of low interest rate environments (¥ trn) 3 around the world, investors are turning their attention to Over ¥2trn private assets as an investment outlet that can potentially generate mediumto long-term returns and deliver benefits 2 of risk diversification. That said, owing to liquidity restrictions, a paucity of publicly available information, and other issues, 1 only some advanced investors actually invest in such assets. SuMi TRUST Bank will harness its extensive experience in this field to provide information and investment support to cli0 ents and seek to grow this market by striving to enhance the March 31, 2017 March 31, 2018 March 31, 2019 March 31, 2020 Group’s lineup of investment products. U  ndertaking collaborative businesses with mainly Collaborative business with mainly regional financial institutions regional financial institutions As we approach an age of 100-year life and changes in sociIndividuals arena Wholesale arena ety are gathering even more momentum, there are growing opportunities for mainly regional financial institutions to make Asset management use of the Group’s varied expertise in the areas of inheritance, Inheritance and succession, real estate, and asset management. By combining Solutions succession the clientele of regional financial institutions with the Group’s wealth administration functions, we will look to team up with Real estate more business partners and increase transaction volume in an effort to further develop win-win collaborative business ventures through which both parties can achieve growth. Sustainability initiatives Contributing to the building of a sustainable society In July 2019 we established a joint venture business with Legend Partners Ltd. for the purpose of launching an initiative that seeks to build a startup ecosystem that supports sustainable local communities by leveraging the abundant management know-how of listed company founders to nurture up-and-coming business entrepreneurs. Through this JV business, in February 2020 we signed a partnership agreement with Shinshu University with the aim of offering classes on the nurturing of entrepreneurs and providing know-how. We intend to share the university research results and information on supplying funds to venture firms, and facilitate cooperation among industry, government, and academia so as to deploy research and technology in social settings and invigorate regional economies. Sumitomo Mitsui Trust Holdings, Inc. 2020 Integrated Report 55 Private Banking Business Message from Executive Officer In the Private Banking Business, our highly experienced, dedicated staff offer one-stop, total wealth management services to clients to meet their varied needs and issues concerning assets and liabilities, including real estate, asset management, and business succession. Akira Yokota Managing Executive Officer, Head of Private Banking Business, SuMi TRUST Bank Executive Officer*, SuMi TRUST Holdings *Executive Officer as defined in our internal policy. Mediumto long-term vision As a specialist in assets and liabilities, the SuMi TRUST institution headquartered in Switzerland that has enjoyed Group has long provided mainly business owner and landthe strong support of high net worth clients worldwide for lord clients with solutions pertaining to asset succession, some 150 years. management, and administration unique to a financial In launching one-stop, total wealth management services group specialized in trust banking based on our plentiful that fuse the unparalleled research capabilities and highknow-how, knowledge, and experience accumulated over level financial technology of the UBS Group with our expermany years. tise and broad-ranging lineup of products and services In January 2020, with the goal of providing a new unique to a financial group specialized in trust banking, we standard of service to Japan’s wealthy individuals, we aim to harness the brand strengths of each group to offer launched a new business with the UBS Group, a financial services not possible up until now. Business environment awareness Increase in the elderly population  rovision of solutions unique to a trust bank; P (growth in demand for wealth administration namely, real estate, business succession, and succession services) asset succession, and inheritance  early increase in number of startups and Y P  rovision of cross-divisional solutions owing companies going public to collaboration with other businesses Environment Opportunities (growing number of wealthy individuals owing (strength of being one entity) awareness mainly to new technological innovation) and Group  rovision of total wealth management P and issues D  iversification of issues and needs of wealthy strengths through collaboration with the UBS Group individuals G  reater desire to make social contributions, such as the nurturing of next-generation managers 56 Sumitomo Mitsui Trust Holdings, Inc. 2020 Integrated Report Business Strategy Key measures in Medium-Term Management Plan T  otal wealth management through collaboration with the UBS Group The UBS Group is one of the world’s leading providers of asset management and securities services, while the SuMi TRUST Group boasts a wide range of products and services in the fields of inheritance, asset succession, and real estate, just to name a few. By fusing together the strengths and brands of both groups, we aim to have our client-dedicated staff and experts in each field provide one-stop, total wealth management solutions to clients. Our investment management solutions in particular will incorporate proposals featuring all the hallmarks of the UBS Group’s strengths to cater to the various needs of our clients.* *In around 2021 the wealth management business of UBS Securities will be spun off to The logo for the wealth management business tie-up symbolizes both create a new securities company in which SuMi TRUST Holdings plans to acquire a 49% groups coming together as UBS SuMi TRUST by encapsulating their equity stake. respective brand colors into a single bar. Using trusts and other functions to provide solutions Overview of total wealth management We intend to offer tailor-made trust-powered solutions to Asset management Global economy & financial markets information provision address client issues. Solutions for business owner clients include various kinds of trusts related to treasury stock, while for landlord clients, we offer real estate succession trusts. On top of this, we have in place a system that can address Social contribution support Real estate consulting the wide-ranging needs and requests of clients concerning M&A and other business succession matters by harnessing not only the know-how of SuMi TRUST Bank, but also the services Next-generation Financial of one of its affiliates, Japan Management Succession Support education support consulting Co. Ltd. Wealth administration for wealthy seniors Family business information provision Business growth support By establishing networks with lawyers, judicial scriveners, and other professionals to provide support on civil trusts and offer a lineup of wealth administration services for wealthy Inheritance & asset Business succession seniors, we will aim to strengthen our services that address succession support support dementia-related issues and other problems associated with the increase in Japan’s elderly population. Sustainability initiatives Contributing to the sustainable development of Japan’s economy by helping to solve social issues We will aim to contribute to the sustainable development of the Japanese economy by offering support to companies that are worried about business succession, aiding the growth of innovative companies that are providing the market with new products and services, and supporting the growing desire among business owners to engage in Linked to all 17 goals of the SDGs social contribution activities, such as the nurturing of next-generation managers, for example. Sumitomo Mitsui Trust Holdings, Inc. 2020 Integrated Report 57 Asset Formation Advisory, Work Place, Business Message from Executive Officers The Asset Formation Advisory, Work Place, Business has long endeavored to provide asset formation products to client companies and their employees in light of their HR systems already in place. Given the growing importance of asset formation for individuals, we will offer life plan consulting services that only a financial group specialized in trust banking can deliver by utilizing the strengths hitherto honed in each business. Futoshi Itani Daisuke Maeda Managing Executive Officer, Head of Asset Formation Advisory, Managing Executive Officer, Head of Asset Formation Advisory, Work Place, Business, SuMi TRUST Bank Work Place, Business, SuMi TRUST Bank Managing Executive Officer, Executive Officer*, SuMi TRUST Holdings Executive Officer*, SuMi TRUST Holdings *Executive Officer as defined in our internal policy. Mediumto long-term vision The structure of Japan’s society continues to be transto secure and nurture talented employees in order to be formed by an aging population and other factors and as competitive on the global stage. For these reasons, meawe approach an age of 100-year life, there is mounting sures that support long-term, planned asset formation by interest in how one can affluently lead a prolonged “secyounger employees are gaining momentum. ond life.” At the same time, many different age groups are In responding to these changes, we offer life plan congrowing increasingly concerned and worried about asset sulting services unique to a financial group specialized formation for the future. in trust banking to address the asset formation needs of Our corporate clients too are grappling with important employees in the wealth creation stage of life based on management issues, such as how to address extensions in our track record in providing comprehensive consulting on the mandatory retirement age or boost company appeal retirement benefits and corporate pension plans. Business environment awareness H  eightened demand for asset formation in O  ccupational client base cultivated through an age of 100-year life corporate pension plans and workplace asset M  ore sophisticated and complex life planformation schemes (asset accumulation savEnvironment Opportunities ings, etc.) ning due to diversification of working styles awareness and Group and changes in lifestyles P  rovision of total consulting to support the and issues strengths life planning of clients over many years, from  mployee-focused trends in companies (as E part of this, supporting the asset formation the time they enter a company through to self-help efforts of employees) retirement and the start of their “second life” 58 Sumitomo Mitsui Trust Holdings, Inc. 2020 Integrated Report Business Strategy Key measures in Medium-Term Management Plan Supporting asset formation in an age of 100-year life Asset formation support at SuMi TRUST Bank (March 31, 2020) In recent times, asset formation needs have grown increasingly diverse and sophisticated in response to not just changes No. of companies that have No. of participants at introduced an installment life planning seminars in the time horizons and lifestyles of people’s lives, but also savings scheme (annual) extensions to the mandatory retirement age, diversification of working styles, and greater leeway with regards to when 433 5,000+ people can retire. In addition, developments in information technology has meant that clients are now demanding various Number of subscribers to services to be provided more conveniently and smartly. Number of subscribers to defined contribution installment savings and asset Accordingly, we will make every effort to optimize our prodpension plans formation business advantage ucts and services in line with the asset formation needs of each 260,000 1,480,000 and every client depending on their stage in life and endeavor (March 31, 2019) to strengthen our contact framework so that we can provide *Business advantage is a comprehensive service for workplace clients high-quality consulting through either face-to-face or nonface-to-face channels. T  he management issue of strengthening human No. of companies that have introduced an installment savings capital at companies scheme or workplace installment-type NISA scheme 450 433 Improving the financial literacy of employees and supporting 384 408 334 their asset formation is an ongoing management issue for com300 263 panies because it not only enhances employee engagement, 150 but also strengthens human capital in terms of securing talented 65 84 25 46 employees and boosting productivity. We therefore provide 0 5 consulting to companies concerning employee benefits taking March 31, 2016 March 31, 2017 March 31, 2018 March 31, 2019 March 31, 2020 into account their HR systems, and offer products and services No. of companies that have introduced an installment savings scheme No. of companies that have introduced a workplace installment-type NISA scheme that contribute to the asset formation efforts of employees, such as asset accumulation and installment savings schemes. We also improve asset formation literacy to support the Number of subscribers to installment savings and asset formation business advantage creation of workplaces where employees can work with peace 300 (Thousand People) of mind guided by the activities of the Sumitomo Mitsui Trust 261 231 247 Future Assets Institute, which was established in 2019 for the 200 186 208 purpose of hosting various life planning seminars, examining 100 and conducting research into the various needs of individual clients pertaining to asset formation and utilization, and shar0 ing information on the findings. March 31, 2016 March 31, 2017 March 31, 2018 March 31, 2019 March 31, 2020 Sustainability initiatives Sumitomo Mitsui Trust Future Assets Institute In September 2019, we established the Sumitomo Mitsui Trust Future Assets Institute for the purpose of examining and conducting research into the various needs and concerns of individual clients pertaining to the building and utilization of assets. This new institute will aim to provide information about these activities to not only the Group’s clients, but to broader society. Linked to all 17 goals of the SDGs With the use of statistical data and online surveys, the institute will analyze how individuals build and utilize assets and then provide useful life planning information to clients at seminars or in publications. Sumitomo Mitsui Trust Holdings, Inc. 2020 Integrated Report 59 Fiduciary Services Business Message from Executive Officer Guided by the Group’s fiduciary spirit, the Fiduciary Services Business seamlessly deploys its significant expertise and know-how across the entire Group to provide client-oriented, high added-value services, from the design of pension plans right through to their management and administration. Toru Takakura Director, Senior Managing Executive Officer, Head of Fiduciary Services Business, SuMi TRUST Bank Executive Officer*, SuMi TRUST Holdings *Executive Officer as defined in our internal policy. Mediumto long-term vision As we draw closer to an age of 100-year life, there is growwill aim to improve upon our significant expertise and brush ing interest among corporate clients in modifying pension up our administrative quality especially considering that the plans to suit an extension to the mandatory retirement age, needs of institutional investors and individual clients are while individual clients are keen to build wealth in preparagrowing more sophisticated and diverse. We will also strive tion for a prolonged “second life” during which interest to offer even more extensive services by presenting proposrates remain perpetually low. Through our pension business, als to clients in line with their intentions. we will look to accommodate the needs of our clients with In this way the Fiduciary Services Business will contribute pension plan proposals for a new age and support the asset to the realization of a financially inclusive society by developformation needs of the working generation through investing investment chains unique to a financial group specialized ment education and other means. in trust banking and supporting the asset formation efforts In our asset management and administration business, we of all kinds of clients. Weighting of substantial gross business profit Net business profit before credit costs (¥ bn) 80.0 63.0 65.8 60.0 59.1 40.0 35.9 33.2 30.2 20.0 23% 0 2017 2018 2019 (FY) ¥171.7bn Non-consolidated* Consolidated The client base of the corporate pension business has been further bolstered and expanded by mainly an increase in defined contribution (DC) pension plan members. Despite some impact of a decline in market value in the fourth quarter, assets under custody have steadily increased mainly due to the entrustment of new client assets, while assets under management have also remained stable. As a result, consolidated net business profit before credit costs rose ¥2.8 billion year on year to ¥65.8 billion. *SuMi TRUST Bank 60 Sumitomo Mitsui Trust Holdings, Inc. 2020 Integrated Report Business Strategy Business environment awareness H  eightened demand for asset formation for an C  omprehensive support on pension systems, age of 100-year life pension asset management, and employee G  rowing need for pension system reform along benefit programs Environment with work style reforms and an extension in the Opportunities Extensive product lineup awareness retirement age and Group A  bility to provide services based on close coorand issues O  ngoing asset management and administration strengths dination between Group companies needs owing to prolonged negative interest rates  bility to cater to outsourcing needs, benefits A  ophistication of asset management methods S of economies of scale and diversification of managed assets Key measures in Medium-Term Management Plan  trengthening defined contribution (DC) pension S DC plan members plan services 1,600 (Thousand People) 1,480 As DC pension plans grow increasingly important from the 1,200 viewpoint of policy changes reflecting an extension in the retirement age and better employee benefit programs to help secure 800 human resources, we have maintained the highest number of 400 DC plan members in the industry thanks to our strong reputation among clients regarding our investment education, online 0 services, and call center operations. Up ahead, we will make use March 31, 2014 March 31, 2019 of non-face-to-face web-based channels to provide DC pension plan consulting and other services so that we can continue to Asset management business lend our total support to the cash flow plans of our clients in preparation for an age of 100-year life. Offered to a wide range of investors Corporate pension Individuals Corporations Asset management business plans (different age groups and (corporations, financial institutions, wealthy individuals) non-profit corporations) We will further strengthen our management know-how of Consolidation defined benefit pensions and public pensions and improve of knowledge • High value-added consulting the level of services we provide. We will also broadly offer the • Various investment products • Administration tools, know-how asset management consulting and product selection knowlOffering optimal solutions that transcend business frameworks edge gained from dealing with institutional investors to mainly Sharing information about investor needs Consolidating product information individual clients. Asset administration business Assets under custody of the Group We plan to complete the merger* of the Group’s banks that (¥ trn) ($ bn) specialize in asset administration and ramp up our efforts on 180 164.7 450.0 414.9 improving Group-wide client services in Japan and overseas 64.3 120 300.0 283.7 so that we can cater to the varied needs of asset managers 80.1 19.8 and investor clients alike. Moreover, we will aim to merge the 60 69.5 150.0 350.6 expertise and know-how cultivated primarily from the adminis37.4 84.6 263.9 tration of securities into our administration business for mostly 0 32.1 0 real estate and monetary claims in an effort to further expand March 31, 2012 March 31, 2020 March 31, 2013 March 31, 2020 our breadth of asset administration services. Other than investment trusts Fund administration *Refer to page 12 for more information about the merger. Investment trusts Custody Sustainability initiatives Expanding ESG products With Japan’s Corporate Governance Code and Stewardship Code now firmly entrenched in corporate management practices, we are working to enhance our lineup of mostly ESG products in light of heightened investor (individuals, institutional investors, etc.) interest in environmental and social issues. More specifically, we are increasing our number of ESG funds on offer, and from an investment management perspective, we are taking steps to help Linked to all 17 goals of the SDGs mitigate climate change and other social issues. Sumitomo Mitsui Trust Holdings, Inc. 2020 Integrated Report 61 Asset Management Business The SuMi TRUST Group’s asset management business provides clients with asset management services mainly through Sumitomo Mitsui Trust Asset Management and Nikko Asset Management. The Group as a whole has approximately ¥87 trillion of assets under management, which is among the largest in Asia. Yoshio Hishida Hideo Abe Junichi Sayato Representative Director, President President, Co-CEO Executive Chairman, Co-CEO Sumitomo Mitsui Trust Asset Management Nikko Asset Management Nikko Asset Management The SuMi TRUST Group is well placed to manage the various funds of its clients, whether they be institutional investors or individuals. We will continue to fully maximize the investment functions of the Group to deliver optimal asset management solutions to our clients and help find solutions to social issues through ESG-focused engagement with investee companies. Jiro Araumi Director, Senior Managing Executive Officer, SuMi TRUST Holdings Mediumto long-term vision Assets under management* [Sumitomo Mitsui Trust Asset Management and Nikko Asset Management] 100 (¥ trn) While we anticipate long-term growth in the global asset 87.6 75 management market up ahead, the nearand medium22.1 50 term business environment is growing increasingly uncertain against a backdrop of geopolitical risks, pandemic 25 65.4 risks like COVID-19, and greater downward pressure on 0 March 31, 2018 March 31, 2019 March 31, 2020 management fees owing to intensifying competition and Sumitomo Mitsui Trust Asset Management Nikko Asset Management stricter regulations. *Includes some assets under management at SuMi TRUST Bank from October 2018 onwards That said, we view this environment as an opportunity Assets under management [Sky Ocean Asset Management and JP Asset Management] to draw on our strength of having multiple asset managers 300 (¥ bn) with different attributes within the Group, covering the full 244.6 gamut of investment services, from passive to active funds, 200 and even alternatives. We will therefore aim to cater to the 100 119.8 changing needs of our broad range of institutional inves0 tors and individual clients in and outside of Japan. March 31, 2018 March 31, 2019 March 31, 2020 Sky Ocean Asset Management JP Asset Management 62 Sumitomo Mitsui Trust Holdings, Inc. 2020 Integrated Report Business Strategy Business environment awareness Expanding global asset management market  usiness foundation capable of accommodatB L arger asset management firms as a result of ing the needs of a wide spectrum of clients in mainly cross-border realignments Japan and overseas, from institutional investors through to individuals  ownward pressure on fee rates triggered by D Environment ongoing shift to passive management, tougher Opportunities S  trong presence in the corporate pension busiawareness competition, regulations, etc. and Group ness in asset management domains that originate from trust banking and issues Increased global investment demand for illiquid strengths assets  road range of distribution channels in the B domestic investment trust market G  lobal network coverage with Group overseas offices and strategic partners Key measures in Medium-Term Management Plan Traditional assets Functions & know-how Equity / fixed income / ETFs / credit Private assets Loans / real estate private equity, etc. Client base Pension funds & mutual aid Financial institutions Retail PB* Institutional investors *Private banking  raditional asset management and strengthening T Expanding our client base private asset functions By maximizing to the fullest extent possible the asset manAs a Group with one of the largest AUMs in Japan and Asia, agement functions of the Group, we will aim to deliver optimum we will aim to further refine our management capabilities and solutions to even more institutional investors and DC clients. demonstrate our presence in the global market. To compleIn the domestic retail market, we will seek to further boost our ment the high-liquidity asset-based conventional solutions curpresence by providing funds that contribute to the long-term rently offered by the Group’s asset management arms, namely formation of assets for investor clients. We also have plans to multi-asset, smart beta, actively managed traditional assets, extend the Group’s asset management know-how to Sky Ocean index, and exchange-traded funds, we will seek to expand our Asset Management and JP Asset Management as one way of scope of investments to private assets, including loan receivdelivering our asset management services to the broad-ranging ables, real estate, and private equity. client base of mostly regional financial institutions. Accelerating our global expansion Helping to solve social issues Considering the increasingly stronger downward pressure on fee The SuMi TRUST Group participates in the PRI and various rates as a result of competition between asset management firms, other global initiatives, and has hitherto engaged in trailblazit is now even more important that we expand our business globing ESG activities on a global basis. We aim to maximize medially in order to realize sustainable growth in the asset management umto long-term investment returns by taking ESG issues into business. Alongside the overseas business expansion by taking consideration. By initiating engagement activities with a broad advantage of the characteristics of each asset management comparange of investee companies in Japan and overseas, we aim to ny, we will ramp up the Group’s global expansion by forming stratesolve social issues and enhance corporate value. gic alliances (including equity stakes) with overseas asset managers. Sumitomo Mitsui Trust Holdings, Inc. 2020 Integrated Report 63 Asset Management Business Sumitomo Mitsui Trust Asset Management Boasting the biggest AUM in Asia, Sumitomo Mitsui Trust DC investment trusts Asset Management (SMTAM) aims to further grow its business 1.5 (¥ trn) in the expanding domestic retail market to complement the 1.4 strong presence it already commands among domestic institutional investors. 1.0 0.9 In the domestic DC market—in which it maintains a strong client base—SMTAM will endeavor to expand its product lineup based on the needs of its clients and shore up its client 0.5 0.5 support framework. Furthermore, SMTAM will ramp up its ESG engagement 0 activities by leveraging the know-how of Legal & General March 31, 2014 March 31, 2017 March 31, 2020 Investment Management (LGIM), the UK’s largest asset manager, with whom it entered into a partnership agreement in June 2019. Sustainability initiatives Addressing the Principles for Responsible Investment (PRI) SuMi TRUST Holdings, Sumitomo Mitsui Trust Asset Management, and Nikko Asset Management are signatories to the UN-supported Principles for Responsible Investment that came into force in May 2006. The Principles encourage institutional investors such as pension funds and asset managers to incorporate environmental, social, and governance (ESG) factors into investment decision-making processes. As one of the founding signatories, we have continued to play a leading role in expanding Japan’s ESG market. Sumitomo Mitsui Trust Asset Management Signatory to PRI May 2006 Total assets under management ¥62trn (¥21trn)* (of which, ESG initiatives) ESG issues reside in non-financial domains and do not manifest themselves in financial reporting, but they can have a considerable impact on corporate value over time. Based on this thinking, SMTAM considers the actions taken to address such issues to be integral to stewardship activities, Approach to ESG alongside engagement and the exercise of voting rights. Through these activities, SMTAM aims to maximize returns for its clients and contribute to the achievement of the SDGs by actively fulfilling its role as an asset manager in the investment chain. Through engagement, the exercise of voting rights, and other activities, SMTAM encourages investee companies to grow sustainably by addressing ESG issues. Its main ESG activities currently revolve around four topics: (1) climate change; (2) water resources and marine pollution; (3) backing governance reforms; and (4) promoting ESG information disclosure. SMTAM shares its awareness Specific ESG initiatives of these ESG issues with companies and promotes efforts that contribute to their improvement by encouraging companies to draw up and disclose time horizon-based measures. It also applies ESG integration (incorporation of ESG factors) to all of its actively managed products for domestic and foreign stocks and bonds. This maximizes mediumto long-term investment returns for clients, minimizes downside risks, and also encourages the realization of a sustainable society. Comprehensive assessment: A+ (five years running) PRI assessment (2019) (Responsible investment integration: A+, Active ownership: A+ (Engagement: A+, Exercise of voting rights: A+), Fixed income investment: A) *Voting rights are exercised for all managed assets and therefore the ESG investment ratio is almost 100% when the exercise of voting rights is included in ESG investment. For more information, please refer to Sumitomo Mitsui Trust Asset Management’s Stewardship Report 2019/2020. https://www.sumitrust-am.com/file/02/ss_report.pdf 64 Sumitomo Mitsui Trust Holdings, Inc. 2020 Integrated Report Business Strategy Nikko Asset Management Nikko Asset Management (Nikko AM) will continue to draw Balance of domestic ETFs on its strengths to provide innovative products and services to 9.0 (¥ trn) its clients. Those strengths include a network of offices (including JVs) spanning 11 countries, unique product development 7.4 capabilities that take active advantage of this global network, 6.0 and highly reputable distributor support services in Japan. 4.7 Nikko AM has its sights set on sustainable growth by beefing up distribution overseas and diversifying its product lineup by 3.0 expanding its range of investment to also include illiquid assets. 1.7 Nikko AM boasts one of the largest ETF businesses in Japan 0 and is currently augmenting its global ETF operations by March 31, 2014 March 31, 2017 March 31, 2020 expanding overseas with a primary focus on Asian markets. It will lead the industry by driving forward collaboration between the Japan ETF team and ETF managers in Singapore, Hong Kong, and the UK. Sustainability initiatives Nikko Asset Management Signatory to PRI October 2007 Total assets under management ¥22trn (¥8.7trn)* (of which, ESG initiatives) As an asset management company, Nikko AM’s mission is to always act in the best interests of its clients. For that reason, it places utmost importance on fiduciary and ESG principles in its corporate philosophy and corporate activities. Guided by the belief that reflecting ESG in Approach to ESG investment practices enhances the long-term value of corporations and contributes to sustainable economic growth, Nikko AM strives to incorporate ESG principles into numerous investment decision-making processes so that it can fulfill its fiduciary duties. Nikko AM’s ESG Global Steering Committee meets quarterly to discuss the incorporation of ESG investment, methods for implementation, and new approaches. The Committee comprises leaders from investment teams worldwide, while multiple observers also attend the Committee meetings, which are run by Nikko AM’s ESG specialists. The ESG specialists mainly support the investment teams in their ESG activities, formulate ESG policies, examine and assist the company’s participation in various ESG-related initiatives, and coordinate joint engagements. Nikko AM believes that appropriately incorporating ESG into investment processes is key Specific ESG initiatives to achieving excess returns over the medium to long term. All of its active domestic equity investment strategies incorporate Creating Shared Value (CSV) evaluations, which also take ESG factors into consideration. The evaluation score is based on the application of the CSV theory and assesses how companies balance their engagement of ESG issues with the pursuit of profitability and competitiveness, in order to create value for both society and shareholders. Through continuous engagement with companies, Nikko AM’s analysts actively evaluate how proactive they are in addressing ESG issues. Comprehensive assessment: A+ (six years running) PRI assessment (2019) (Responsible investment integration: A+, Active ownership: A+ (Engagement: A+, Exercise of voting rights: A+), Fixed income investment: A+) *Nikko AM endeavors to fulfil its fiduciary duties by incorporating ESG principles into its many investment decision-making processes. For more information, please refer to Nikko AM’s 2019 Sustainability Report. https://sustainability.nikkoam.com/files/pdf/annual-report/nikko_am_2019_sustainability_report_en.pdf Sumitomo Mitsui Trust Holdings, Inc. 2020 Integrated Report 65 Column What is a trust? A “trust” is a structure through which the property or assets of a person (the settlor) are entrusted to another person (the trustee) and managed, administered, or disposed in accordance with the settlor’s wishes and objectives. In actual fact, trusts play a role in our lives in various shapes and forms. On this page, we take a closer look at trusts—a system that the SuMi TRUST Group, as a trustee, has continued to uphold and develop. 1. Purposes Trusts are predominantly used for any of the following four purposes: (1) saving/growing assets; (2) preserving/utilizing assets; (3) connecting/transferring assets; or (4) putting assets to good use. Saving/growing (asset formation and management) Preserving/utilizing (asset administration and utilization) There are trusts for managing money, securities, or real estate. There are trusts for safely administering the assets of the elderSome trusts are also utilized by companies under the governly or people with disabilities, for example. Some trusts are also ment’s property accumulation savings scheme so that employees utilized by companies in corporate pension plans for employees. can build wealth. Connecting/transferring (asset inheritance) Putting assets to good use (social contribution) There are trusts that broadly provide assistance on paying There are trusts that put one’s assets to good use for scholeducation or marriage expenses. For example, school enrollment arships, environmental conservation, or research in academic fees or the cost of lessons, as well as weddings and births, for fields. There are also trusts through which money is donated to one’s children or grandchildren. There are also trusts for passing non-profit organizations to support social contribution activities. on assets to family members after one’s death. 2. Mechanism 3. Trustee responsibilities A trust comprises three parties: (1) the settlor who entrusts the To earn the trust of the settlor and the beneficiary, various obliassets; (2) the trustee who administers and manages the trust gations are imposed on the trustee under Japan’s Trust Act and assets; and (3) the beneficiary who receives the benefits generatTrust Business Act. ed by the trust assets. More specifically, the purpose of the trust is established with the conclusion of a trust agreement between The typical obligations of a trustee are as follows. the settlor and the trustee. The assets are then handed over to Duty of care as a prudent Duty to segregate property the trustee, who distributes the assets along with any income manager The trustee must administer generated by the assets to the beneficiary. The trustee must exercise due property belonging to the care of a prudent manager trust assets separately from its Trust agreement / will Authority to monitor / when administering the trust. own property (property owned supervise Duty of loyalty by the trustee itself) and from The trustee must faithfully property belonging to other Establishment of Trustee Distribution of administer the trust for the trust assets. trust purpose / income from transferal of assets trust assets beneficiary. Duty of fairness Settlor Beneficiaries Duty of care as a prudent manager Where a trust has multiple Administration / disposition Duty of loyalty beneficiaries, the trustee must Duty to segregate property, etc. execute its duties fairly for all Trust assets beneficiaries. The origin of trusts While there are numerous views on how trusts came about, one theory relates to the “use” system that emerged in medieval England around the time of the crusades (11–13th century). At that time, a large sum of taxes had to be paid to the king or lord if the child of a person died in battle was to inherit the land of the deceased. To avoid such a heavy tax burden, it was customary for a person to donate their land to the church after they had died, but this was subsequently prohibited by law, so to counter this, the “use of land” system was developed. Thus, land was transferred to a trustworthy person and the income generated from its use was donated to the church. Later on, the use system was also utilized at the time of the crusades. The land and possessions of a knight fighting in the crusades in the Middle East were assigned to a trustworthy person to be managed on behalf of his family left behind in England, while the income generated was to be handed over to the family. If the knight returned home safely, his land and possessions would be duly returned. The use system was built on a strong relationship of trust between two parties and in time developed into what we now know as a “trust.” 66 Sumitomo Mitsui Trust Holdings, Inc. 2020 Integrated Report Trust In simplest terms, what is a trust? By the way, could you go into a bit more detail about what it means to “utilize professional capabilities”? A trust is used to transfer your own assets to another person. While you are entrusting your assets, you are not lending them. As an example, trust banks are investment management proYou are transferring your ownership rights. The other person is fessionals. Not only do they manage assets for companies called the trustee and not only can they lease your assets, they and individuals, they also manage pension fund contributions. can also sell them. They also jointly manage large sums of money entrusted from many clients. So that means I’d no longer own those assets and the trustee On top of this, trust banks are also real estate professionals and can do whatever they want with them. Why on earth would I  they use their know-how to construct and manage buildings. In agree to that? fact, a lot of capital is needed to erect a building and such funds You see, the trustee can’t use the trust assets for themselves. need to be procured from somewhere, but this process happens They must only use them for the beneficiary. This is what’s to proceed more smoothly when a trust bank (the trustee) is the known as duty of loyalty. borrower. Even the paperwork for the municipal office can be handled solo because the trustee is also the owner, which is really I see. But in saying that the trust assets can only be used for convenient especially when there are multiple leaseholders. the beneficiary, that could mean just about anything. Wouldn’t the trustee have a hard time deciding on how the trust assets I see. So the creditworthiness of the trustee can be put to good should be used? use and even legal matters can be simplified. Anything else? Exactly. Which is why the purpose of the trust is decided on Another example would be the ability to create an investment beforehand. This way, the trustee uses the trust assets for the product by liquidizing assets such as real estate, loan claims, or beneficiary in accordance with the purpose of the trust. In other credit receivables. Using a trust, the assets become the benefiwords, it’s a policy on how the trust assets are to be used. ciary rights (credit obligations), but they can be broken up into smaller units and sold to investors. This is called multilayering I see. But if the trust assets now belong to the trustee, won’t and the beneficiary rights can also be separated into different they be turned over to a creditor if the trustee goes bankrupt? types depending on the level of risk. Well, a function of trusts called “bankruptcy remoteness” That’s also called securitization. What else is there? means that the trust assets cannot be seized by the trustee’s creditor even in the event of default. And of course, because Trusts can also be used in place of wills. You can decide in the trust assets no longer belong to the settlor, they are advance who will become the beneficiary of your trust after you impervious to bankruptcy on the part of the settlor. The same have died. And you can even decide on the next beneficiary applies to bankruptcy of the beneficiary (although beneficiary after them. Better still, you can also have the trust continue so rights can be seized). that your children or grandchildren can receive regular payments, or you could have the trust continually donate money to But how does the trustee know which assets belong to thema charity organization of your choosing. selves and which are the trust assets of the trust? Trusts really do have so many different functions and uses. The trustee has a duty to segregate property. They must properly manage the trust assets by separating them from other Yes, they certainly do. property. For assets like real estate that have a recording sysProfessor Kazuo Shinomiya, a leading trust law scholar, wrote tem, the trustee must make a record (known as a trust register) the following in his 1989 book The Trust Act: “...a trust can be that basically shows what the trust assets are. created for any purpose unless it is an unlawful or impossible and as such there could be an infinite amount of them, but if So, in what kind of situations can a trust be used? there would be anything to limit their number, it would only be a lack of imagination on the part of lawyers and business They have many uses, but particularly when assets are entrusted to a trust bank, many people expect their funds and assets to people...” I think this statement really rings true. be managed and administered in a professional manner. The Even as the times have changed, trust banks have continued to trustee of a trust has a duty of care as a prudent manager. That meet the needs of society by providing various trust products. is, a duty to render attention sensibly as normally expected of a For example, loan trusts supplied funds to Japan’s industrial person undertaking such a task based on their capabilities and sector, pension trusts underpinned the adoption of the pension position. This means that even though the trust assets belong to system, land trusts provided a means for the development of the trustee, simply paying attention to them as their own assets land to proceed without the need for real estate to be bought is not good enough. or sold at a time when land prices went through the roof during Japan’s bubble economy, and liquidation trusts contributed to Interesting. So, even though the entrusted assets belong to the the diversification of corporate financing. Let’s hope trust banks trustee, the trustee has numerous obligations to fulfil, which continue to make good use of trusts in imaginative and creative essentially guarantees that the trust assets will be used for the ways to meet the needs of society. beneficiary of the trust. Sumitomo Mitsui Trust Holdings, Inc. 2020 Integrated Report 67 ESG Corporate Governance As Japan’s only financial group specialized in trust banking, the SuMi TRUST Group is taking steps to strengthen its corporate governance system in line with its business model. As a “company with Three Committees,” in addition to the requirement under the Companies Act for the establishment of statutory committees, we also have in place a Risk Committee and Conflicts of Interest Committee, both of which function as advisory bodies to the Board of Directors. We also strive to further enhance management transparency by appointing an external director as chairman of the Board of Directors. 1. Basic Initiative Policy In order to adhere to the principles of sound management, prise value of the SuMi TRUST Group. In addition, the Board based on a high degree of self-discipline with the background of Directors sets out and discloses the SuMi TRUST Group’s of fiduciary spirit, and to establish strong credibility with Management Principles (“Mission”), Ideal Model (“Vision”), society, SuMi TRUST Holdings commits itself to enhancing and Codes of Conduct (“Value”) as the anchor for all of our its corporate governance system in line with the following activities, which is shared by all of the directors, officers, and basic philosophy, with the objective of supporting sustainable employees of the SuMi TRUST Group. growth and mediumto long-term enhancement of the enterBasic Philosophy • SuMi TRUST Holdings shall respect shareholder rights, and endeavor to and endeavor to appropriately disclose corporate information, including develop an environment in which shareholders can exercise their rights non-financial information, and ensure the transparency of its corporate appropriately and effectively, and to secure the effectively equal treatmanagement. ment of shareholders. • As the financial holding company that assumes the corporate manage• By recognizing the importance of its social responsibilities and public ment function of the SuMi TRUST Group, SuMi TRUST Holdings adopted mission, SuMi TRUST Holdings shall endeavor to appropriately cooperthe institutional design of a “company with Three Committees,” and, by ate with its stakeholders, including shareholders, clients, employees, separating the execution and supervision of business, shall endeavor to business partners, and local communities, and to establish a corporate ensure the Board of Directors’ role of effective supervision. culture and climate in which it conducts sound business operations • SuMi TRUST Holdings shall engage in constructive dialogue with its based on a high degree of self-discipline. stakeholders in order to contribute to sustainable growth, as well as the • In order to establish a basis for constructive dialogue with its stakeholdmediumto long-term enhancement of the enterprise value of SuMi ers, SuMi TRUST Holdings shall separately set out its Disclosure Policy, TRUST Holdings. 2. Our Views on Corporate Governance SuMi TRUST Holdings is a financial holding company with real estate businesses to deliver total solutions to our clients as many subsidiaries under its Group umbrella, including SuMi their “Best Partner.” In order to fulfill our principles and live up TRUST Bank, Sumitomo Mitsui Trust Asset Management, and to the expectations of our stakeholders, we make every effort Nikko Asset Management. Guided by our fiduciary spirit, we to ensure the soundness and reliability of the Group’s business aim to leverage our significant expertise and creativity to commodel, as well as management transparency, and continually bine our banking, asset management & administration, and strive to enhance the Group’s corporate governance. 68 Sumitomo Mitsui Trust Holdings, Inc. 2020 Integrated Report 3. Board of Directors (1) Roles of the Board of Directors strives to secure a board that is, as a whole, sufficiently balanced The Board of Directors ensures the fairness and transparand diverse in terms of knowledge, experience, and capability ency of the SuMi TRUST Group’s corporate management as to properly supervise the wide range of business fields in which its central role, by setting out the basic management policy of SuMi TRUST Holdings has dealings, as a trust bank group. the SuMi TRUST Group and supervising the overall manageComposition of the Board of Directors ment of the Group. Thus, with the exception of matters that are required by law to be decided by the Board of Directors, the Board of Directors, in principle, delegates decisions on the Chairman execution of business to executive officers, and supervises the execution of business by executive officers, etc. Meanwhile, the Board of Directors provides and improves an environment External directors Internal directors in which external directors may properly supervise the execu(7 directors) (8 directors) tion of duties by the Board of Directors and the top managePercentage of external directors 47% ment, as well as any conflicts of interest that may arise between SuMi TRUST Holdings and the management team, etc. from Non-executive directors Executive directors the standpoint of stakeholders, in order to support sustain(11 directors) (4 directors) able growth and the mediumto long-term enhancement Percentage of 73% of the enterprise value of the SuMi TRUST Group. In light of non-executive directors the importance of environmental and social issues related to A  ll seven external directors have been registered as independent officers with the relevant financial instruments exchange. sustainability, the Board of Directors prescribes a basic policy Breakdown of 15 directors: 14 men, 1 woman regarding social responsibility that is to be implemented by 16 Board of Directors meetings were convened during the period July 1, 2019 through June 30, 2020. Only on one occasion was one director absent. each Group company (the “Sustainability Policy”). Under this Sustainability Policy, the Board of Directors enhances awareness (3) External Director Serving as Chairman among its officers and employees, and promotes positive efforts of the Board of Directors to resolve these issues while taking its stakeholders into considWhile a “company with Three Committees” is, in prineration, with the aim of supporting the sustainable growth of ciple, able to delegate important business execution decisociety and increasing the enterprise value of the SuMi TRUST sions to executive officers, the Board of Directors is required Group. Furthermore, the Board of Directors establishes policies to exercise a greater supervisory function. In light of the role regarding the provision of products and services suitable for the expected of the Board of Directors, SuMi TRUST Holdings has true benefit of our clients (the “Policies regarding the Fiduciary appointed Mr. Isao Matsushita, an external director, as chairDuties of the Sumitomo Mitsui Trust Group”), acts to ensure climan of the Board of Directors. ent comfort and satisfaction by sharing our “client-orientation” In addition, SuMi TRUST Holdings has established the policy within the SuMi TRUST Group, and promotes the practice Corporate Secretariat as an organization that assists the chairof fiduciary duties in the SuMi TRUST Group by supervising man in fulfilling his duties, thereby providing information for use each Group company’s commitment to its fiduciary duties. in the selection of agendas for Board of Directors meetings, and (2) Composition of the Board of Directors offering assistance regarding matters such as the clarification of The Board of Directors at SuMi TRUST Holdings requires points related to the agendas of Board of Directors meetings. enough directors considered necessary and appropriate for the Board to demonstrate an effective supervisory function as Chairman of the Board of Directors required of a financial holding company tasked with the corporate management of the Group. In determining the number of directors, due consideration is also given to ensuring diversity and expertise among directors. In light of the importance of the functions of external direcIsao Matsushita tors in corporate governance, as a general rule, at least oneExternal director third of the directors on the Board of Directors are independent external directors. The Board of Directors establishes and disAssistance closes Independence Standards of Independent Directors. In determining candidates for directors, SuMi TRUST Holdings Corporate Secretariat takes into consideration, among other factors, a balance • Provides information for use in the selection of between individuals who are capable of exerting strength in agendas for Board of Directors meetings the management of specific business fields, and individuals who • Clarifies points related to the agendas of Board of Directors meetings, etc. are suitable for corporate management. SuMi TRUST Holdings Sumitomo Mitsui Trust Holdings, Inc. 2020 Integrated Report 69 Corporate Governance 4. Deliberations by the Board of Directors We take steps to ensure that the operations of the Board of making changes to the institutional design of major subsidiarDirectors are focused sharply on key topics of deliberation in its ies, but in FY2019 those changes were completed and thereannual schedule, which we formulate as part of the PDCA cycle fore the focus of deliberations turned to the formulation of the for the Evaluation of the Board of Directors conducted every year. Medium-Term Management Plan commencing in April 2020. In FY2018 the Board of Directors spent a lot of time delibAs a result, the Board spent more time deliberating manageerating governance and risk management for the purpose of ment strategies and monitoring. Finance Finance 8% 9% Relationships Management Relationships Management with stakeholders strategies and with stakeholders strategies and FY2018 FY2019 15% deliberations monitoring 10% deliberations monitoring Governance and 34% Governance and 43% risk management risk management 43% 38% Topics deliberated on by the Board of Directors in FY2019 Subject Topics • Formulation of Medium-Term Management Plan • Partnership with UBS Group in wealth management Management strategies (business environment assumptions, competitor business and monitoring analysis, plan direction and determination, etc.) • Results of evaluation of Board of Directors • Enhancement of anti-money laundering framework Governance and risk management • Transition of Nikko Asset Management to directly • Addressing cyber security risks owned subsidiary • Impact of, and response to, COVID-19 • Examining appropriateness of financial targets for • Balance sheet, efficient use of capital Finance formulation of Medium-Term Management Plan • Dialogue with investors, shareholder measures • Strengthening employee engagement Relationships with stakeholders • Status of CS awareness survey • Sustainability policy 5. Formulation Process for Medium-Term Management Plan As part of the process to formulate the new Medium-Term Deliberations on Medium-Term Management Plan Management Plan, strategies were developed based on a Schedule for formulating Medium-Term back-and-forth examination process involving mutual discusApril 2019 Management Plan sions and two-way dialogue between the Board of Directors Confirmation of management principles and and business execution departments. Other than Board of May other matters Directors meetings, preparatory briefings* were utilized to Internal/external environment assumptions, drive forward methodical discussions in line with the annual June competitor analysis deliberation schedule. July Focus points of Medium-Term Management Plan *Meetings for the purpose of briefing mainly external directors about agenda items for Board of Directors meetings. Review of materiality September Examination of Medium-Term Management Plan Back-and-forth examination process for strategy formulation October Formulation of new materiality issues Board of Directors Key points of discussion for Medium-Term November Management Plan December Direction of Medium-Term Management Plan Dialogue concerning Strategy formulation January 2020 Particulars of Medium-Term Management Plan (1/2) strategies February Particulars of Medium-Term Management Plan (2/2) Policy on organizational changes Business execution departments March Formulation of Medium-Term Management Plan 70 Sumitomo Mitsui Trust Holdings, Inc. 2020 Integrated Report ESG 6. Results of the FY2019 Evaluation of the Board of Directors Every year we perform an evaluation of the Board of (1) Improving discussions concerning mediumto long-term management Directors in an effort to enhance its effectiveness by conissues and strategies, including the formulation of the new Medium-Term sidering and adopting measures aimed at improving issues Management Plan. • When the new Medium-Term Management Plan was being formulated, identified in the evaluation and by implementing the PDCA systematic discussions in line with the annual deliberation schedule took cycle. The key points in the FY2019 evaluation of the Board of place and both the Board of Directors and business execution departDirectors are as follows. ments mutually examined and deliberated issues and strategies through back-and-forth discussions. PDCA Cycle • After going back to the management principles of the Group, mediumto long-term management issues and strategies were mainly discussed by the Formulation of annual deliberation schedule Board of Directors and during other preparatory briefings. The insights of (deliberated on by Board of Directors) external directors were fully utilized. (2) Strengthening monitoring to enhance Group governance. • Discussions aimed at improving the Group’s corporate governance continued to take place. For example, changes were made to the institutional Operation of the Board of Directors design of key Group companies, while in-house changes were also made. • Future issues were identified through the monitoring of internal control systems and the risk governance framework and further discussions Effectiveness evaluation and understanding of issues focused on making improvements with an emphasis on a “three lines of (deliberated on by Board of Directors) defense” model. (3) Improving the framework that underpins the operation of the Board of Directors • With the goal of improving the PDCA cycle for evaluating the Board of Directors, a new external consultancy firm was appointed as the third-party Examination of approach to addressing issues and organization to lead the evaluation so that the Board of Directors could be critical deliberation issues (deliberated on by Board of Directors) examined from a different perspective and new issues could be identified. • The monitoring of how business is executed in response to key opinions  ey Points in the FY2019 Evaluation of the Board K of the Board of Directors was strengthened. In particular, discussions were afforded more focus thanks to the visualization of agenda items requiring of Directors deliberation. (1) The third-party organization leading the evaluation was changed • An annual deliberation schedule was drawn up based on the issues identifrom last fiscal year so that the Board of Directors could be examined fied in the effectiveness evaluations performed on each committee and from a different perspective and so new issues could be identified. the self-sustaining PDCA cycles in each committee became more sophis(2) The third-party organization surveyed and interviewed the directors ticated mainly owing to more active discussions and improved operations. and self-evaluations were carried out in light of a review performed by the third-party organization.  esults of the FY2019 Evaluation of the Board of R (3) Assessments were conducted from multiple angles; namely, self-evaluation by the Board of Directors, the Board of Directors’ evaluation Directors and Future Measures of each committee, each committee’s self-evaluation, and executive Through the FY2019 evaluation of the Board of Directors, officers’ evaluations of the Board of Directors. SuMi TRUST Holdings concluded that the Board of Directors and each committee had been operated with a sense of FY2019 Implementation Schedule for the Evaluation of the their own purpose, in an effort to invigorate deliberation and Board of Directors enhance objectivity and transparency, and that they had mainMonth and tained a certain level of effectiveness. Evaluation Process Year On the other hand, through the evaluation of the Board of January– Directors and executive officers were surveyed by the Directors, SuMi TRUST Holdings identified the following three February third-party organization (external consultant) issues as requiring improvement and enhancement by the 2020 Members of each committee were surveyed Board of Directors and each committee, and is working conFebruary– Directors were interviewed by the third-party organitinuously to address them. March zation (external consultant) The Board of Directors deliberated the results of the (1) Supervision of and advice on the progress of the Medium-Term May Management Plan in light of the impact of the COVID-19 pandemic. evaluation of the Board of Directors (2) Improvements to internal control systems and operations at Group Areas of greater focus for future deliberations were companies. discussed by the Board of Directors June (3) Further improvements to the appropriate operations of the Board of Annual deliberation schedule for the Board of Directors, reflecting the supervision and execution roles expected of it. Directors and each committee was formulated In its pursuit of sustainable growth and the mediumto Measures to Address FY2018 Issues long-term enhancement of enterprise value, SuMi TRUST Based on the following measures that addressed issues Holdings is committed to further enhancing the effectiveness in FY2018, results confirmed in the FY2019 evaluation of of the Board of Directors and each committee, by continuously the Board of Directors have indicated that progress is implementing the PDCA cycle through the evaluation of the being made on improving those issues. Board of Directors. Sumitomo Mitsui Trust Holdings, Inc. 2020 Integrated Report 71 Corporate Governance 7. Committees To ensure the effectiveness of corporate governance and furconsultation regarding the election and dismissal of directors from ther enhance the soundness and reliability of the Group’s busithe Board of Directors of SuMi TRUST Bank and Sumitomo Mitsui ness model, as well as the transparency of management, we have Trust Asset Management, and deliberates and makes reports established the Risk Committee and the Conflicts of Interest regarding these matters. The Nominating Committee consists of Committee as advisory bodies to the Board of Directors to comthree or more directors, and a majority of the members are indeplement the three committees required under the Companies pendent external directors. The chairperson of the Nominating Act, namely, the Nominating Committee, the Compensation Committee is selected from the pool of committee members who Committee, and the Audit Committee. As a financial group speare independent external directors. cialized in trust banking, the Conflicts of Interest Committee pos(2) Compensation Committee sesses supervisory functions unlike at any other financial group. The Compensation Committee prescribes policy regarding Also, every year each committee conducts a self-evaluation in decisions on the content of compensation for individual executive an effort to improve its autonomous management by considering officers and directors, and determines the content of compensaand adopting measures aimed at improving issues identified in tion for individual executive officers and directors, in accordance the evaluation. with this policy. It receives requests for consultation regarding (1) Nominating Committee policies on decisions on the content of compensation for indiThe Nominating Committee determines the content of proposvidual directors, etc. from the Board of Directors of SuMi TRUST als regarding the election and dismissal of directors to be submitBank and Sumitomo Mitsui Trust Asset Management, and delibted to the General Meeting of Shareholders, receives requests for erates and makes reports on these matters. The Compensation consultation regarding the election and dismissal of executive offiCommittee consists of three or more directors, and a majority of cers including the President, as well as the succession plan for the the members are independent external directors. The chairperson management team from the Board of Directors, and deliberates of the Compensation Committee is selected from the pool of and makes reports on these matters. It also receives requests for committee members who are independent external directors. Meetings of Board of Directors and Committees (July 2019 through June 2020) July 2019 Aug. Sept. Oct. Nov. Dec. Jan. 2020 Feb. Mar. Apr. May June Board of Directors Nominating Committee Compensation Committee Audit Committee Risk Committee Conflicts of Interest Committee One meeting Two meetings Corporate Governance System General Meeting of Shareholders Supervisory body Board of Directors Statutory committee Supervision of the execution of duties of directors and executive officers Voluntary committee Nominating Committee Compensation Committee Audit Committee Determination of compensation for Audit of execution of duties of Election and dismissal of directors directors and executive officers directors and executive officers Risk Committee Conflicts of Interest Committee : Chairman Chairperson Enhancement of the conflict of (Board of Directors) (Each Committee) Advice on risk governance interest management framework : External : Internal/Non-executive : Internal/Executive Supervise Executive body Executive Committee Representative Executive Officers Executive Officers, etc. Individual Committees 72 Sumitomo Mitsui Trust Holdings, Inc. 2020 Integrated Report ESG (3) Audit Committee SuMi TRUST Group, and reviews and reports on their appropriateThe Audit Committee audits the execution of duties by executive ness. In principle, a majority of the members of the Risk Committee officers and directors, and prepares audit reports. It determines the are independent external directors and external experts. The chaircontent of proposals regarding the election and dismissal of a finanperson of the Risk Committee is selected from the pool of commitcial auditor, and regarding refusals to reappoint a financial auditor tee members who are independent external directors. that are submitted to the General Meeting of Shareholders. (5) Conflicts of Interest Committee In order to fulfill its role and responsibilities, the Audit Committee The Conflicts of Interest Committee receives requests for conappropriately exercises its authority to investigate the status of busisultation from the Board of Directors on (i) matters concerning ness and the assets of companies belonging to the SuMi TRUST the validity of the conflict of interest management framework of Group. It appropriately utilizes the internal control system of the the SuMi TRUST Group, (ii) matters concerning the effectiveness SuMi TRUST Group, and systematically and efficiently conducts of conflict of interest management, client explanation manageaudits by receiving reports from executive officers, directors, and a ment, and client support management of the SuMi TRUST Group, financial auditor, and through communications with these individuas well as the enhancement of associated systems, (iii) matters als. The Audit Committee consists of three or more directors who concerning Policies regarding the Fiduciary Duties of the SuMi do not concurrently serve as executive officers, and a majority of its TRUST Group and the action plans, etc. of each Group company, members are independent external directors. The chairperson of (iv) particularly important matters concerning the dissemination of the Audit Committee is selected from the pool of committee memconflict of interest management and fiduciary duties in the SuMi bers who are independent external directors. TRUST Group, and other matters, and reviews and reports on their (4) Risk Committee appropriateness. In principle, a majority of the members of the The Risk Committee receives requests for consultation from the Conflicts of Interest Committee are independent external directors Board of Directors on (i) matters concerning the business environand external experts. The chairperson of the Conflicts of Interest ment surrounding the SuMi TRUST Group, top risks, and materiality, Committee is selected from the pool of committee members who and (ii) matters concerning the operation of its risk appetite frameare independent external directors or external experts with profeswork, risk management, and monitoring of the effectiveness of the sional knowledge and expertise in the concerned field. internal control system related to compliance management of the Activities of each committee Nominating Committee Compensation Committee (July 2019 through June 2020) • Decided on proposed director candidate for SuMi TRUST Holdings. • Deliberated on compensation for executives, including executives • Deliberated on proposed director candidate for a major subsidiary. at major subsidiaries. • Selected next-generation top management candidates based • Discussed makeup of monthly compensation, director bonuses, on succession plans and considered improvements to developstock compensation, as well as compensation systems taking into ment plans. account near-term and longer-term incentives.Modified stock compensation system and introduced share delivery trust system. Audit Committee Risk Committee Conflicts of Interest Committee • Launched organizational audits (audits that leverage the internal • Deliberated on the “three lines of defense” structure for Group • Deliberated on a dynamic conflict of interest management framecontrol system). Carried out systematic and efficient audits supportrisk governance and risk management in line with the Group’s work taking into account case examples overseas, circumstances at ed by appropriate collaboration with executive officers, directors, business model. other firms, the COVID-19 crisis, and trends in Japan and abroad. the Internal Audit Department, financial auditors, and auditing • Deliberated on external environment assumptions and top risks. • Deliberated on further penetration and implementation of FD and units of affiliated Group companies. • Deliberated on matters concerning the risk appetite framework. measures aimed at enhancing business quality control capabilities. Members of Committees ( : Chairperson, : Member (external), : Member (internal/non-executive), : Member (internal/executive)) Nominating Compensation Audit Risk Conflicts of Interest External Directors Isao Matsushita Takeshi Suzuki Mikio Araki Shinichi Saito Takashi Yoshida Hiroko Kawamoto Mitsuhiro Aso Experts Hideki Kanda* Haruyuki Toyama* Akiko Hosokawa* Internal Tetsuo Ohkubo Masaru Hashimoto Yutaka Nishida Kuniyuki Shudo Kouji Tanaka * Mr. Hideki Kanda is an external director of SuMi TRUST Bank. Mr. Haruyuki Toyama and Ms. Akiko Hosokawa are external experts. Sumitomo Mitsui Trust Holdings, Inc. 2020 Integrated Report 73 Corporate Governance 8. Succession Plan In order to realize the sustainable growth of the Group and enhance its enterprise value, the Group has created succesSuccession plans Succession plans sion plans for the top management of SuMi TRUST Holdings for top personnel for top in each business management and its major subsidiaries, SuMi TRUST Bank and Sumitomo Top management Mitsui Trust Asset Management. We have also created management personnel development plans for the personnel that will be responsible for the management of each business and Nextgeneration top management corporate management. candidates Highly These plans define the ideals and requirements of directors specialized personnel and executive officers, and assist with the management and in each Pool of nextSecond-tobusiness next-generation generation development of a pool of candidates that meet these ideals candidates top management candidates and requirements. The status of the progress of succession plans and management personnel development plans is reported regularly to Main successors in the Nominating Committee, which reports to the Board of Main successors in each corporate each business management department Directors. 9. Compensation System for Directors and Executive Officers (1) P  olicy Regarding Decisions on the Content of Group companies, and determine individual compensation Compensation based on highly transparent, fair, and objective evaluations. • Compensation for directors and executive officers is intended • The Compensation Committee forges deeper collaborations to function effectively as an incentive for the improvement of with committees in order to build a higher accountability comcorporate performance and expansion of enterprise value. pensation system, and engages in deliberations with the aim • Rather than focusing on a single-year performance evaluation of operating a fair and balanced compensation system. in which short-term contributions to profit are emphasized, we • Neither internal nor external committee members participate are building a compensation system with a balance of nearin decisions regarding their own compensation. term incentives and mediumto long-term incentives, with (2) Overview of the Compensation System rewards based on a comprehensive evaluation that reflects In principle, compensation is paid with a combination of earnings contributions over the medium to long term. monthly compensation (comprising fixed compensation and • We accurately assess the roles that directors and executive individual performance compensation), bonuses for directors officers of SuMi TRUST Holdings must perform in corporate and executive officers (performance-linked bonuses), and management, as well as the results of their efforts, in order for stock compensation (share delivery trust). them to adequately discharge their supervisory duties over the Fixed compensation (roughly 40%) Variable compensation (roughly 60%) Individual performance Fixed compensation as a percentage of Stock compensation as a percentage Bonus Total President monthly compensation compensation of monthly compensation 40% 25% 20% 15% 100% Fixed compensation (roughly 45%) Variable compensation (roughly 55%) Individual performance Fixed compensation as a percentage of Stock Other than compensation as a percentage Bonus Total monthly compensation compensation president of monthly compensation 45% 25% 20% 10% 100% 74 Sumitomo Mitsui Trust Holdings, Inc. 2020 Integrated Report ESG (3) Indicators (KPIs) Concerning Performance-Linked Compensation A system has been introduced to derive total bonus (perforrates for the items listed below with reference to KPIs and then mance-linked) and stock compensation (share delivery trust) multiplying the rates against a base amount. amounts for directors and officers by calculating achievement Near-term / Indicators (KPIs) concerning KPI selection reason Calculation method medium-term performance-linked compensation Bonuses for directors and officers (performance-linked) (1) Consolidated net business profit Considered appropriate indicators Calculated based on a weighted Linked to nearof the company’s business results average with a 2:1 weighting on term earnings (2) Consolidated net profit attributable to and capabilities in the fiscal year the achievement rates for (1) and owners of the parent under review (2), respectively Stock compensation (share delivery trust)* (1) Consolidated net business profit Considered appropriate indicators Calculated based on a weighted Linked to nearof the company’s business results average with a 2:1 weighting on term earnings (2) Consolidated net profit attributable to and capabilities in the fiscal year the achievement rates for (1) and owners of the parent under review (2), respectively (3) Consolidated shareholders’ equity and • Final achievement rate calculatROE ed by qualitatively assessing the • Key financial indicators and non(4) Consolidated common equity tier 1 capital achievement and progress of (3), financial items in the company’s ratio (4), and (5), as well as the activiMedium-Term Management Plan Linked to ties for (6) and (7) and adding the and considered appropriate key medium-term (5) Consolidated overhead ratio (OHR) scores to the achievements rates topics in management strategy earnings calculated with (1) and (2) above (6) ESG-related activities and rating agency • To clarify commitment to man• Achievement rate is capped at score, etc. agement of directors, officers, 130% (lower limit of 0%) so as to and executive officers provide ana appropriate incen(7) Fiduciary duty and customer satisfaction tive scheme activities *Compensation with the use of a trust scheme. Points are awarded every fiscal year based on the achievement rates for the KPIs above and delivered in the form of shares upon retirement. Malus provisions (reduction/forfeiture prior to share delivery) apply. 10. Changes to the Institutional Design of Group Companies In order to enhance the SuMi TRUST Group’s corporate Changes to the Institutional Design of Group Companies/ governance system, three primary Group companies of SuMi Transfers within the Group TRUST Bank, Sumitomo Mitsui Trust Asset Management, and SuMi TRUST Holdings became a “company with June 2017 Nikko Asset Management, have changed from a “company Three Committees” with a Board of Corporate Auditors” to a Company with an Sumitomo Mitsui Trust Asset Management Audit and Supervisory Committee. October 2018 became a Company with an Audit and Supervisory Furthermore, Nikko Asset Management was made a Committee directly owned subsidiary of SuMi TRUST Holdings (previSuMi TRUST Bank and Nikko Asset Management ously directly owned by SuMi TRUST Bank). This move aims June 2019 became a Company with an Audit and Supervisory Committee to further advance the Group’s asset management business and enhance corporate governance, including the appropriTransition of Nikko Asset Management to directly July 2019 owned subsidiary of SuMi TRUST Holdings ate management of conflicts of interest within the Group. 11. External Directors’ Meetings In order to further improve the effectiveness of our corpoactive and unrestrained, sharing information and awareness rate governance, we regularly hold external directors’ meetfrom independent and objective positions. These meetings ings, which are only attended by external directors. contribute to the greater objectivity and independence of the These external directors engage in discussions that are Board of Directors. Sumitomo Mitsui Trust Holdings, Inc. 2020 Integrated Report 75 External Director Interview Mikio Araki External Director Chairperson of Risk Committee In addition to the requirement under the Companies Act for the establishment of three statutory committees, SuMi TRUST Holdings, as a “company with Three Committees,” also has in place a Risk Committee that functions as an advisory body to the Board of Directors. We asked External Director Mikio Araki, chairperson of the Risk Committee since its inception, about the status of the Group’s corporate governance, the activities of the Risk Committee undertaken thus far, and his vision for the future. Q uestion proficiency and maturity of the corporate governance structure is vitally important, in my opinion. How would you rate the measures adopted thus For example, I think the supervising and checking roles in far that aim to enhance corporate governance at a governance structure only really prove functional when they SuMi TRUST Holdings? are paired with an external director who is expected to check Under the banner of a “second foundation” in the previous things from an external point of view. Medium-Term Management Plan that kicked off in April 2017, Rather than recognizing that oversight is strengthened solely the SuMi TRUST Group pushed ahead with reforms comprising because of the presence of external directors, I think it is importhree main parts: business model transformation, promotion tant that corporate governance continues to be matured in of fiduciary duties, and corporate governance transformation. terms of operational aspects, such as how functions and roles In June 2017, SuMi TRUST Holdings switched to a “comare separated from the executive side of the business, or what pany with Three Committees” and in addition to the requirekind of information channels are set up with the executive side. ment under the Companies Act for the establishment of three statutory committees, it also set up a Risk Committee and a Q uestion Conflicts of Interest Committee, both of which function as advisory bodies to the Board of Directors. The majority of What are the roles of the Risk Committee? members that sit on these committees are external directors, The Risk Committee has been active for a period of three while the chairman of the Board of Directors and the chairperyears now since its establishment at the time of SuMi TRUST son of each committee also hail from outside of the company. Holdings’ transition to a “company with Three Committees.” Then, over the period from 2018 through 2019, the major The Board of Directors consults with us on a plethora of Group companies SuMi TRUST Bank, Sumitomo Mitsui Trust subjects—for example, the Group’s risk appetite framework Asset Management, and Nikko Asset Management were (RAF), materiality, and top risks. And because our discusreorganized into companies with an Audit and Supervisory sions are quite broad-ranging, you could say that we enjoy Committee. So considering all of these developments, I do a high degree of freedom regarding the activities we underfeel that the governance structure across the entire Group has take. With regard to the recently formulated Medium-Term been steadily strengthened. Management Plan, we engage in free discussions about the That said, upgrading one’s governance framework should issues the plan rests its assumptions on, such as the awarenot be the end goal. Uncovering issues that require improveness of the Group’s business environment and the forwardment from day-to-day practices and continually enhancing the looking review of materiality. 76 Sumitomo Mitsui Trust Holdings, Inc. 2020 Integrated Report ESG However, owing to the fact that the committee is made up That said, many challenges await us up ahead. As a financial of mostly external committee members, there are limitations group specialized in trust banking, the SuMi TRUST Group is on how often we can meet, which means we are unable to engaged in a multitude of businesses, which certainly gives it an discuss matters on a daily basis. For these reasons, we have edge over its competitors, but for that very reason of diversity, not been given a strong mandate to supervise and monitor all of its risk appetite indicators must be set with a high degree the day-to-day execution of the Group’s business. Instead, of accuracy. Given these many technical challenges, I think our main role is to freely engage in sophisticated and wideongoing improvements are absolutely essential. Progress has ranging discussions about risk-related topics and raise various also been made on using the common language of the RAF issues for the executive side of the business to address. as a tool for communication between corporate management What works in our favor is that in addition to two external departments, but initiatives aimed at instilling a risk culture at directors and one internal director of SuMi TRUST Holdings, the front line and even among each and every employee are still the other committee members or advisors that attend meeta work in progress, so a great deal of ingenuity and effort will be ings include external experts well-versed in such topics as crucial going forward. The creation and penetration of risk culthe macro economy, global finance, and trends at regulatory ture and corporate culture driven by the Group’s top leadership, authorities and financial institutions in Japan and overseas. and even the establishment of an assessment and compensaAccordingly, lively discussions are the norm at every meeting. tion structure consistent with these developments, must be Moreover, directors that also sit on the Audit Committee accomplished in a climate of mutual respect and understanding. and many executive officers of corporate management departments also participate in committee discussions and the Q uestion details and opinions from such discussions are reflected in the day-to-day execution of business where necessary. How do you view the impacts of the COVID-19 Up ahead, as an advisory body to the Board of Directors, we pandemic? hope to build an even stronger system by further expanding Economic activity is being significantly and adversely on the recommendations of the Board of Directors and offerimpacted by the global spread of COVID-19 and the various ing suggestions based on our findings. restrictions imposed on people’s movements as a result. As a consequence, society is expecting all financial institutions to Q uestion lend large sums of money to their clients. Naturally, financial institutions must firmly uphold their social duty to supply capiHow do you feel when looking back on the activital, but they are also required to strictly address and deal with ties of the Risk Committee carried out thus far? sudden increases in credit risk and problems associated with Prior to the establishment of the Risk Committee, SuMi securing liquidity. TRUST Holdings had already constructed a RAF for the Group Under these circumstances, the following opinion voiced in line with international standards and from FY2017 it stepped during a recent Risk Committee meeting left a particular up efforts to have risk appetite limits adopted in each banking impression on me: “...exhaustive discussions about environbusiness and at all Group companies. Numerous interrelated mental assumptions and the appropriateness of a scenario issues come into play when building a RAF. For example, forportfolio during this time are meaningless. We must concenward-looking environmental assumptions and scenario analytrate on deciding what kind of countermeasures we require in ses of the macro economy and industrial and social trends, the anticipation of the biggest risk that could potentially occur and setting and monitoring of risk appetite indicators, the sophischecking whether such measures will work.” tication of prediction management functions, and the identiThe SuMi TRUST Group too has implemented various inification of various risk and materiality issues. So considering tiatives and measures for preventing the spread of infections that the primary objective of a RAF is to set a risk tolerance and ensuring business continuity, including restrictions on amount and compare the risk-return costs to improve risk mancoming to work and the adoption of telecommuting. However, agement, revenue management, and by extension, business considering that all of this is a new experience for each and management, it is no surprise that the discussions of the Risk every employee, I am certain that we have all learnt something Committee revolve around the RAF to a varying degree. new, such as what we can put to use in the future and what to Over the past three years, I can see that we have made prevent from happening again. More than anything, I think it steady progress on improving methods of setting and monitoris vital that we not only use this awareness to overcome the ing risk appetite indicators, enhancing prediction management immediate crisis, but after we get through this period, we take methods, developing and improving risk appetite statements, it all in and digest it thoroughly as an organization so that we and rolling out all of these initiatives to Group companies. can build a better system for sustainable business continuity. Sumitomo Mitsui Trust Holdings, Inc. 2020 Integrated Report 77 Our Board of Directors and Executive Officers*1 *2 (As of July 1, 2020) Directors (internal) Director, Tetsuo Ohkubo has experience in positions for supporting part of corporate management, President being in charge of corporate management departments of SuMi TRUST Holdings, and assumed office as President in April 2017 and as Director, President in June 2017. In addition, (Representative Executive Officer) he has experience of being in charge of corporate management departments of SuMi TRUST Bank. He served as Deputy President of SuMi TRUST Bank for 1 year from April 2016, and as Tetsuo Ohkubo Director from April 2017. Director, Jiro Araumi has been in charge of the Asset Management Business Planning Department as Senior Managing Executive Officer Senior Managing Executive Officer since April 2017, and Director, Senior Managing Executive Officer since June 2017. He also has been in charge of the Fiduciary Services Business as (Representative Executive Officer) Director, Senior Managing Executive Officer of SuMi TRUST Bank. Therefore he has extensive knowledge and experience regarding the corporate management and business operations of Jiro Araumi a trust bank group. Director, Yutaka Nishida has been Regional Executive for Europe and General Manager of Senior Managing Executive Officer London Branch of SuMi TRUST Bank. Since April 2017, he has been in charge of the Risk Management Department, Compliance Department, Legal Department, and other depart(Representative Executive Officer) ments as Senior Managing Executive Officer of SuMi TRUST Bank. Therefore, he has extensive knowledge and experience regarding the corporate management and business Yutaka Nishida operations of a trust bank group. Director, Masaru Hashimoto has been in charge of corporate management departments of SuMi TRUST Holdings. From October 2016 to March 2017, he served as Deputy President and Executive Officer Executive Officer. Since June 2017, he has served as Director, Executive Officer, in a position of assisting the Group’s overall management. At SuMi TRUST Bank, he has been responsible Masaru Hashimoto for overall management since he took office as President in April 2017. Director Kunitaro Kitamura served as President of SuMi TRUST Holdings for 5 years from April 2012 and as Chairman of SuMi TRUST Bank from April 2012. Therefore, he has extensive knowlKunitaro Kitamura edge and experience with regard to the overall management of a trust bank group. Director Hitoshi Tsunekage has served as Chairman of SuMi TRUST Holdings since April 2011, and also served as President of SuMi TRUST Bank up to March 2017 and Chairman from June 2017. Therefore, he has extensive knowledge and experience with regard to the overall manHitoshi Tsunekage agement of a trust bank group. Kuniyuki Shudo has served as general manager of the Fiduciary Services Business and overDirector seas units, Regional Executive for the Americas and General Manager of New York Branch. He then served as Managing Executive Officer of SuMi TRUST Bank, Executive Officer of SuMi TRUST Holdings, in charge of the Global Business Management Office and the Kuniyuki Shudo Americas Business Management Office. Therefore, he has extensive knowledge and experience regarding the corporate management and business operations of a trust bank group. Director Kouji Tanaka has served as general manager of the Real Estate Business and general manager of domestic branches. He then served as Managing Executive Officer of SuMi TRUST Bank, in charge of the Internal Audit Department. Therefore, he has extensive knowledge and experiKouji Tanaka ence regarding the corporate management and business operations of a trust bank group. Executive Officers Senior Managing Executive Officer, Executive Officer*2 Executive Officer*2 Executive Officer*2 (Stock Transfer Agency Services Business)*3 Managing Executive Officer Executive Officer*2 (Wholesale Asset Management Business)*3 (Private Banking Business)*3 Atsushi Kaibara Kazuya Oyama Yukihiro Kitano Kengo Noguchi Akira Yokota Executive Officer*2 Executive Officer*2 Managing Executive Officer Managing Executive Officer (Wholesale Total Solution Services Business)*3 (Retail Total Solution Services Business)*3 Executive Officer*2 Hitoshi Sato Junya Ueda Masahiro Tsuchiya Seiji Iwakuma Toshio Masui Managing Executive Officer, Executive Officer*2 Executive Officer*1, Executive Officer*2 Executive Officer*2 (Asset Formation Advisory, Work Place, Business)*3 Executive Officer*2 (Fiduciary Services Business)*3 (Real Estate Business)*3 Executive Officer*2 Futoshi Itani Shigenori Ikemura Toru Takakura Shigeki Tanaka Yoshio Hishida 78 Sumitomo Mitsui Trust Holdings, Inc. 2020 Integrated Report ESG Area of expertise Corporate Directors (external) manageFinancial accounting Law ment Mr. Takeshi Suzuki has extensive experience and knowledge in the fields of accounting, finance, affiliated company management, etc. as a former Senior Director (external) Managing Director of Toyota Motor Corporation. He has been involved in the management of companies operating finance related businesses, serving as — Takeshi Suzuki*1 Representative Director and President of Toyota Financial Services Corporation and Representative Director and Chairman of Aioi Nissay Dowa Insurance Co., Ltd. (He has served as an external director at SuMi TRUST Holdings since June 2015.) Mr. Mikio Araki has extensive experience in bank management and policyDirector (external) based finance, etc. as a former Representative Director and Deputy President of Development Bank of Japan Inc., and has extensive knowledge regarding domestic and foreign financial and economic circumstances as Chairman of the Board of — Mikio Araki*1 Japan Economic Research Institute Inc. (He has served as an external director at SuMi TRUST Holdings since June 2015.) Mr. Isao Matsushita has extensive experience in the general management of Director (external) companies, as a former Representative Director and President of JX Holdings, Inc. (currently ENEOS Holdings, Inc.), which is a representative integrated energy, resources, and material enterprise group in Japan. — Isao Matsushita*1 (He has served as an external director and chairman of the Board of Directors at SuMi TRUST Holdings since June 2017.) Mr. Shinichi Saito has extensive knowledge and experience in financial accountDirector (external) ing as the former General Manager of the Finance Department of Marubeni Corporation. In addition to engaging in management at an investment company, he also has acquired deep insight as a company executive. — Shinichi Saito*1 (He served as an external auditor at SuMi TRUST Holdings from June 2013 to June 2017, and as an external director at SuMi TRUST Holdings since June 2017.) Mr. Takashi Yoshida had been a member of a major audit firm for many years, and has extensive knowledge and experience in financial accounting as a certified public Director (external) accountant in charge of auditing financial institutions and operating companies. He has been engaged in management as a representative partner and managing director — — Takashi Yoshida*1 of an audit firm, and also has global knowledge based on overseas work experience. (He served as an external auditor at SuMi TRUST Holdings from June 2016 to June 2017, and as an external director at SuMi TRUST Holdings since June 2017.) Ms. Hiroko Kawamoto served as Executive Vice President of All Nippon Airways Director (external) Co., Ltd. from April 2013, and as Executive Vice President and Member of the Board from April 2016. She was responsible for the overall management of the company and promotion of women’s activities. — — Hiroko Kawamoto*1 (She served as an external director at SuMi TRUST Bank from June 2016 to June 2017, and as an external director at SuMi TRUST Holdings since June 2017.) Mr. Mitsuhiro Aso has served as Superintending Prosecutor of Fukuoka High Public Director (external) Prosecutors Office and Interlocking Professor at Hosei University Law School. Therefore, he is a legal expert with experience in organization management. — — Mitsuhiro Aso*1 (He served as an external auditor at SuMi TRUST Bank from June 2016 to June 2019, and as an external director at SuMi TRUST Holdings since June 2019.) *1 External director as prescribed in Article 2, item 15 of the Companies Act. The overall balance, including areas of expertise above, is taken into consideration when external directors are selected. *2 Executive Officers as defined in our internal policy; unless otherwise annotated, Executive Officers are defined in the Companies Act. Executive Officer*2 (Global Markets Business)*3 Executive Officer*2 Executive Officer*2 Executive Officer*2 Executive Officer*2 Yoshinori Momose Toshiaki Nakano Masaya Noda Yasuyuki Suzuki Kazuteru Wakao Executive Officer*2 Executive Officer*2 Executive Officer*2 Executive Officer*2 Nobuaki Yamaguchi Takuji Marui Atsushi Matsumoto Shinichi Nonomura Executive Officer*2 (Asset Formation Advisory, Work Place, Business)*3 Executive Officer*2 Executive Officer*2 Executive Officer*2 Daisuke Maeda Satoshi Kitai Nobuhisa Takahashi Manatomo Yoneyama *3 Items in parentheses are business segments in charge at SuMi TRUST Bank. Sumitomo Mitsui Trust Holdings, Inc. 2020 Integrated Report 79 Initiatives on Key Sustainability Issues In our Medium-Term Management Plan, we have incorporated a basic strategy for generating positive impacts geared towards solving social issues and have placed sustainability at the core of the Group’s management. Each SuMi TRUST Bank business and its affiliated companies will independently select the social issues that must be addressed first, and we will strengthen efforts on these issues through our core business. Meanwhile, for climate change and other key sustainability issues in Japan and overseas, our Sustainability Promotion Committee functions as a command center for the entire Group and formulates strategies to swiftly implement initiatives whilst collaborating with mainly international organizations. 1. Sustainability Promotion System Board of Directors • Establishes the Basic Policy on the Social Responsibility of the Sumitomo Mitsui Trust Group (Sustainability Policy). • Stipulates (in the Basic Policy on Corporate Governance) that one of its main roles is to address the problems of climate change and other environmental and social issues linked to sustainability and determines the policy direction the Group should take. • Hears the findings of the Risk Committee and engages in exhaustive discussions to decide on mainly the issues (materiality) that have a serious impact on balanced creation of both social value and economic value, as well as operational frameworks. Executive Committee • Hears the findings of the Business Risk Management Committee and engages in exhaustive discussions to establish policies regarding items of materiality for submission to the Board of Directors. • Engages in exhaustive discussions to decide on all initiatives for Group companies, taking into account the perspective of balanced creation of both social value and economic value. • For initiatives on key sustainability issues, the Committee establishes medium-term policies in line with the Medium-Term Management Plan, as well as policies for each fiscal year, and manages operations that reflect the PDCA cycle (convenes meetings as the Sustainability Promotion Committee). Close Chief Sustainability Officer Group companies collaboration (advances social problem-solving business) Sustainability Management Department (addresses key sustainability issues) Policies related to sustainability Basic Policy on the Social Responsibility of Policy the Sumitomo Mitsui Trust Group (Sustainability Policy) Contribute to solving social and environmental 1 problems through business Environmental Policy Human Rights Policy 2 Serve clients with sincerity 3 Earn the trust of society Action Guidelines for Mitigating Climate Change 4 Address environmental issues Please refer to the SuMi TRUST 5 Respect the individual Action Guidelines for Holdings website for further details Preserving Biodiversity about the above policies. 6 Participate in, and contribute to, the community 80 Sumitomo Mitsui Trust Holdings, Inc. 2020 Integrated Report ESG 2. Roles of Sustainability Promotion Committee The Sustainability Promotion Committee (secretariat: Sustainability Management Department), which is held as part of the Executive Committee, is tasked with mainly the following roles. • Promoting materiality management (see page 21) • Drawing up and promoting plans for sustainability work (manages the progress of social problem-solving businesses at Group companies) Management • Tackling climate change issues (see page 84) • Conducting strategic information disclosure by issuing ESG Reports and other publications*1 • Earning the trust of investors and other stakeholders and working to improve their assessment of the Group • Developing innovative financial products and services that help solve key sustainability issues Business Promoting Eco-Trustution*2 development • Strategically providing value to the community through “With You” activities*3 • Making sure employees understand strategies by mainly distributing the Group’s employee integrated report to all directors, officers, and employees Employee • Facilitating the acquisition of practical knowledge as quickly as possible by promoting in-house hands-on activities, such education as participation in the challenge of helping achieve the SDGs, the SDG declarations formulated by each branch, and the “With You” activities*3 • Encouraging dialogue with, and ascertaining the needs of, various stakeholders, including shareholders, investors, NPOs Dialogue and NGOs in Japan and overseas, international organizations, government agencies, and universities Utilizing internal engagement (see page 21) to bring the needs of stakeholders back into the Group and improve initiatives *1 Strategic information disclosure Climate Change Environmentally Friendly Employee Stewardship Report Sustainability Report ESG Report Report Property Report Integrated Report (Sumitomo Mitsui Trust Asset Management) (Nikko Asset Management) Natural Capital Digest reports Report for seniors *2 Eco-Trustution “Eco-Trustution” is a word we have coined that refers to the business of providing solutions to environmental problems with the use of our trust functions. One of the Group’s biggest strengths is our ® ability to develop sustainability products by leveraging our know-how as a financial group specialized in trust banking. *3 “With You” activities So that we may forge strong relationships of trust with local communities, the branch offices of SuMi TRUST Bank engage in community-based social contribution activities. Activities are categorized accord® ing to degree of difficulty and benefits and initiatives are carried out systematically, for example, with the use of a points system that serves as a guideline for establishing activity criteria. Sumitomo Mitsui Trust Holdings, Inc. 2020 Integrated Report 81 Initiatives on Key Sustainability Issues 3. Solving Social Issues through Business In our Medium-Term Management Plan, we have highlightare expanding remarkably. ed three issues that we intend to prioritize through our social The Group actively seeks out business opportunities by problem-solving businesses. And alongside the problems that supporting the actions of our clients to maximize positive we have long focused on thus far—i.e., climate change and impacts and minimize the negative ones. Japan’s super-aged society—we also plan to tackle new issues Meanwhile, concerns are mounting with regard to hitherto of sustainability in our business operations, like the COVID-19 unforeseen ESG risks, such as issues stemming from COVIDpandemic, for example. 19 and climate change. In addition to pursuing business With the topic of sustainability attracting even more attenopportunities, enhancing our resilience to these new risks is tion nowadays, the fields of social problem-solving business also an important topic. Prioritizing three social issues Key sustainability issues Individuals Corporations Investors Problems of Financial Natural capital Asset administration Sustainable growth of the Japanese Diverse range of climate change inclusion suited for Japan’s economy and corporations investment opportunities aging society and asset (addressing both financial and and development of the Problems in a formation of individuals non-financial issues) investment chain COVID-19 issues super-aged society Viewpoint on business promotion Opening up and actively pursuing new business fields (pursuit of opportunities) Maximizing positive impacts Minimizing negative impacts generated by clients generated by clients Dealing with hitherto unexpected ESG risks (risk response) Strengthening business portfolio (Medium-Term Management Plan) Delivering value to communities Reinforcing business foundation Establishing new areas of growth Examples of our sustainability business initiatives Pursuit of opportunity / Focus of impact generated Initiative Page location in this report risk response (PI: positive impact / NI: negative impact) Sustainability business Pursuit of opportunity Maximizing PI Each business section (P.40-65) Financial inclusion Pursuit of opportunity / Minimizing NI P.83 risk response COVID-19 issues Pursuit of opportunity / Maximizing PI / minimizing NI P.83 risk response Addressing climate change issues Pursuit of opportunity / Minimizing NI P.84-87 risk response Environmental and social considerations in investments and loans Risk response Minimizing NI P.88-89 Delivering value to communities Pursuit of opportunity Maximizing PI / minimizing NI P.90 82 Sumitomo Mitsui Trust Holdings, Inc. 2020 Integrated Report ESG Financial inclusion Establishing a financial inclusion promotion framework Using mainly charitable trusts to provide finance schemes Initiatives related to financial inclusion were previously impleSuMi TRUST Bank is using mainly charitable trusts to provide mented at various Group companies. From November 2019, finance schemes to people with little financial leeway. As part of however, the Sustainability Management Department assumed this initiative, we provide charitable trusts to benefactor clients control of these activities across the entire Group and took steps with the goal of offering low-interest or no-interest scholarships to develop an implementation strategy and expand the scope of to students who do not have the financial means to further their initiatives. Its specific policies are outlined below. education. 1. Improving accessibility mainly through expansion of online transactions Initiatives based on the G20 Fukuoka Policy Priorities on Aging 2. Using mainly charitable trusts to provide finance schemes to and Financial Inclusion people with little financial leeway The world’s population continues to rapidly age and there are 3. F inancial inclusion initiatives for various types of loans fresh concerns that conventional financial services will be unable 4. Initiatives based on the G20 Fukuoka Policy Priorities on Aging to meet their needs. Through much discussion about the topics of and Financial Inclusion aging and financial inclusion, the Global Partnership for Financial 5. Flexible approach to mainly terms of repayment on loan transacInclusion (GPFI*) and the OECD jointly prepared and adopted the tions (initiatives for financial facilitation) G20 Fukuoka Policy Priorities on Aging and Financial Inclusion at the G20 plenary meeting of finance ministers and central bank govImproving accessibility mainly through expansion of ernors in June 2019. The document sets out eight key priorities to online transactions help the international community address the challenges of aging Given that financial infrastructure is already in place in Japan, populations. SuMi TRUST Bank fully supports the priorities and expanding online transaction platforms in order to improve accestherefore set out and announced concrete initiatives to address sibility to financing would be one way to address financial inclueach of the eight items. sion. For example, SuMi TRUST Bank is endeavoring to enhance *The GPFI is an inclusive platform for all G20 countries, interested non-G20 counthe convenience of client transactions by providing services tries, and relevant stakeholders to carry forward work on financial inclusion, includthrough which a number of procedures can be completed online ing implementation of the G20 Financial Inclusion Action Plan. *Refer to pages 76–80 in our 2019/2020 ESG Report for more information about (internet banking) or over the phone (telephone banking) via its financial inclusion. Sumitomo Mitsui Trust Direct platform. Responding to the COVID-19 pandemic Basic approach economy and people’s lives (pension, stock transfer agency services, The Group’s ongoing response to the COVID-19 crisis will be asset management and administration, real estate) guided by our basic stance, which hinges on three points: (1) ensuring the health and safety of employees and their families; (2) ensurStopping the spread of infection in society ing business continuity as a key piece of social infrastructure; and Amidst the increasingly prolonged battle to contain the COVID(3) preventing the spread of infection in society. 19 pandemic, SuMi TRUST Bank donated ¥100 million to the Japanese Red Cross Society to assist their efforts in treating Ensuring the health and safety of employees and their families COVID-19 patients and to support their activities for preventing the • Make active use of teleworking, staggered starting times, and spread of the virus. Furthermore, SuMi TRUST Bank has donated splitting employees into multiple teams so they report to work on approximately 100,000 medical masks to medical institutions (maina rotating basis ly by way of the Japan Business Federation and Kansai Economic • In principle, employees that are pregnant or have preexisting Federation); the masks were previously stockpiled in preparation health issues are to work from or remain at home for the outbreak of new strains of influenza. • Establish a consultation line for employees And as one way of beating this pandemic, SuMi TRUST Bank set up an account to accept donations from individual clients and Maintaining business continuity as a key piece of social infrastructure other donors. From the perspective of contributing to society and At our 133 branches (excluding sub-branches) across Japan— the Group’s desire to support the efforts of universities working which remain open for business—we are taking steps to prevent hard to combat COVID-19 by developing a vaccine and medicine, the spread of infection by setting up transparent acrylic boards or repurposing existing medicine, SuMi TRUST Bank also decided to minimize transmission from respiratory droplets. We are also to donate ¥10 million to each university selected from different endeavoring to make things more convenient for our clients by regions throughout Japan. provisionally processing various procedures, including mortgage Refer to the following press releases for more information. loans, online or by telephone. https://www.smth.jp/en/news/2020/E200514-3.pdf Banking business: Prioritizing lending and fund settlement operations https://www.smth.jp/en/news/2020/E200514-4.pdf Trust-related business: Executing operations that underpin the Sumitomo Mitsui Trust Holdings, Inc. 2020 Integrated Report 83 Initiatives on Key Sustainability Issues 4. Addressing Climate Change Issues The SuMi TRUST Group recognizes that climate change Management Committee function as advisory bodies to the is the biggest factor affecting financial markets in terms Board of Directors and Executive Committee, respectively. of risks and opportunities and is accordingly stepping up Numerous climate change measures are intricately linked its initiatives based on the recommendations of the Task to the promotion of sustainability and risk management Force on Climate-related Financial Disclosures (TCFD). practices, which is why we have adopted a structure under which the Risk Committee and Board of Directors exercise (1) Governance supervision after the executive deliberations are made at The Group’s Basic Policy on Corporate Governance states the Business Risk Management Committee and Executive that the role of the Board of Directors is to pursue the Committee in accordance with how these measures are prosustainable development of society and improvement of moted or managed. corporate value of the Group through proactive sustainIn October 2019 we set up a TCFD Project Team (headed ability efforts. Specific activities are based on the mediumby the officer in charge of corporate planning) with the goal term policies and plans for each fiscal year decided on by of strengthening risk management and information disclothe Sustainability Promotion Committee—meetings for sure concerning climate change. In addition to personnel which are held as part of the Executive Committee—and from the corporate management departments of SuMi supervised by the Sustainability Management Department TRUST Holdings, the team includes members from SuMi of the Corporate Planning Department. For matters regardTRUST Bank, Sumitomo Mitsui Trust Asset Management, ing materiality, the Risk Committee and Business Risk and Nikko Asset Management to cover the entire Group. Main initiatives in FY2019 Meeting body Description Steering committee Committee meetings for discussing TCFD matters are held regularly and Execution for TCFD Project Team attended by the officers in charge of corporate planning, financial planning, risk management, and asset management business planning Decides on approaches and information disclosure policies, and reports on the results of transition risk scenario analysis, among other matters Executive Committee Reports on the progress of the TCFD Project Team in addressing TCFD matters Execution Risk Committee Reports on the progress of the TCFD Project Team and hears the opinions of Risk Advisory body to the Committee members, including external advisors Board of Directors Board of Directors Reports on the progress of the TCFD Project Team and hears the opinions of Supervision directors, including external directors (2) Strategy vation (transition risks). 1. Basic approach More specifically, there is the (physical) risk of natural Mediumto long-term climate change could potentially disasters impairing the credit standing of obligors and the have a negative impact on the Group’s earnings and finanvalue of their pledged assets, thereby negatively impacting cial situation owing to greater risk of physical damage to, the Group’s credit portfolio, and the (transition) risk of securifor example, the natural environment, social infrastructure, ties issued by companies that emit large amounts of CO2 and client assets (physical risks), as well as the risk of a rapid and loans extended to such companies dragging down the transition to a low-carbon society owing mainly to policy value of assets held by the Group owing to a rapid transition changes, changes in social norms and financial market prefto a low-carbon society. erences regarding climate change, and technological inno84 Sumitomo Mitsui Trust Holdings, Inc. 2020 Integrated Report ESG Risks in the Group pertaining to climate change Risk Time horizon Transition risks Higher credit costs to major greenhouse gas-emitting sectors and companies Medium to long term Decline in value of securities and other assets of major greenhouse gas-emitting companies Short to medium term Compliance with tighter global legal restrictions and standards concerning climate change Short term Deterioration in reputation regarding fossil fuels and forest conservation Short term Physical risks Higher credit costs stemming from damage to pledged value owing to typhoons, torrential Short, medium, and rain, floods, and other abnormal weather conditions long term 2. Scenario analysis assets in the Group’s business portfolio, is 5.2% (as of March In following the recommendations of the TCFD, SuMi 31, 2020, down 0.4 points from March 31, 019). Despite an TRUST Bank carried out qualitative assessments of climateincrease in the overall loan balance, the decrease in exporelated risks in each sector and identified which should be sure to carbon-related assets owed to an increase in project prioritized for analysis from the viewpoint of risk severity finance for renewable energy projects, which are subtracted and exposure. Based on this, in FY2019 we commenced from total exposure to carbon-related assets. *Loans to the “energy” and “utilities” sectors (based on the Global Industry Classification a scenario analysis of transition risks and physical risks in Standard, excluding water utilities and independent renewable energy power produceach sector. ers) are defined as “exposure to carbon-related assets” in the TCFD recommendations. Calculation range based on the combined total for SuMi TRUST Bank and Sumitomo Mitsui Trust Bank (Thai). • Identification of risks for scenario analysis We first summarized the transition risks, physical risks, Based on the results of our qualitative assessment of and business opportunities in the sectors belonging to the climate-related risks, we identified electric power as the four non-financial groups in the TCFD recommendations sector for our scenario analysis of transition risks. The fact most likely to be potentially impacted by climate change that the electric power sector has the highest weighting of and a transition to a low-carbon economy. The four groups carbon-related assets was also a factor in identification. are: energy, transportation, materials & buildings, and agriIn analyzing transition risks, we employed two scenarios culture, food, & forest. from the IEA’s World Energy Outlook 2019: STEPS*1 and SDS*2. In both scenarios, we made assumptions for active Heat map investment in renewable energy power generation and no Transition Physical Sector risk risk Opportunity investment at all. *1 Stated Policies Scenario (STEPS): A scenario that reflects future policy changes and Oil, gas, and coal H M M targets; equivalent to the 3°C target *2 Sustainable Development Scenario (SDS): A scenario in which measures necessary for Electric utilities H M M achieving the 2°C target of the Paris Agreement are implemented Maritime transportation M M M Railway transportation L L L Below are the results of our scenario analysis Automobiles and parts M M M STEPS SDS Real estate management No investment in Credit rating Credit rating L H M and development* renewable energy worsens by worsens by Chemicals M M M power generation 2–3 notches 2–3 notches Paper and forest products M H M Active investment in No changes No changes renewable energy observed in observed in H: High; M: Medium; L: Low power generation credit rating credit rating *Mortgage loans not included • Scenario analysis of transition risks Going forward, we will expand the scope of our sceThe percentage of loans exposed to carbon-related nario analysis to other sectors and utilize the results when assets*, an indicator of credit exposure to carbon-related engaging in dialogue with clients. Sumitomo Mitsui Trust Holdings, Inc. 2020 Integrated Report 85 Initiatives on Key Sustainability Issues • Scenario analysis of physical risks Action Guidelines for Mitigating Climate Change so that We identified mortgage loans to individual clients as the we may contribute to efforts on mitigating and adapting to subject of our scenario analysis of physical risks. The fact climate change. As part of our policies on environmental that mortgages account for roughly one third of all loans and social considerations for loans, our basic policy is not to and the noticeable trend in recent times of homes sufferparticipate in any new coal-fired power generation projects ing wind and flood damage largely as a result of powerful being considered for construction. Furthermore, a climate typhoons and abnormal weather events were the reasons change risk assessment was added to the items of due dilifor identification. gence owing to FY2020 revisions of the Equator Principles, In our analysis we employed two scenarios known as guidelines that we apply to large-scale project finance. RCP2.6 (2°C scenario) and RCP8.5 (4°C scenario) from the Within the framework of Group-wide risk manageIPCC Fifth Assessment Report. They are both widely used ment resolved by the Board of Directors, every quarter we as physical risk scenarios. We calculated that credit costs exhaustively bring to light risks and identify and evaluate on mortgage loans at SuMi TRUST Bank would increase by those considered to be significant risks in terms of probaround ¥7.0 billion by the year 2100 compared to the end of ability, degree of impact, and significance. From among March 2020 based on the probability of floods occurring and the significant risks identified, the officer in charge of risk the rate of change in property value caused by flood damselects the top risks and emerging risks and monitors and age in each scenario. We think the financial impact of physimanages them within our existing risk appetite framework cal risks in mortgage loans at SuMi TRUST Bank is limited. by submitting a risk management status report to the Board of Directors on a quarterly basis. The former are risks 3. Climate change opportunities that have the potential to significantly impact the Group There are growing opportunities to support the transiwithin one year and warrant the attention of management, tion to a carbon-free society with the use of finance and while the latter are risks that are unlikely to significantly trust functions. impact the Group within one year, but have the potential to do so over the longer term (more than one year). • There may be more opportunities to offer advisory services As of the end of March 2020, “climate change-related and finance to projects and companies that are helping to risk” has been added to our list of emerging risks because slow or mitigate climate change it poses a considerable risk over the medium to long term. • T he transformation of social infrastructure, such as the As for climate-related risks, in FY2019 we performed a proliferation of renewable energy, may open up profitable scenario analysis of both transition risks and physical risks. opportunities over the medium to long term • There may be more opportunities to provide finance for In FY2020 we intend to inject the knowledge we acquired infrastructure and technological development that enhancfrom the analysis into our management of credit, market, es the capacity to adapt to climate change and operational risks, and subsequently have relevant • Positive social evaluations as a financial institution helping departments discuss this information and utilize it when to address climate change may translate into more business engaging in dialogue with clients. opportunities • Greater social awareness of climate change may support (4) Metrics and Goals sales of the Group’s financial products that factor in environAs a signatory to the Principles for Responsible Banking mental considerations (PRB), we aim to bolster our initiatives in the areas of impact finance and renewable energy finance projects. (3) Risk Management FY2020 goals We identify climate change to be a priority issue (matePromote impact Execute 20 new ESG-related finance transriality) that has implications for both the Group’s corporate finance actions, such as positive impact finance value and the building of a sustainable society. It is thereMitigate climate Further ramp up renewable energy finance fore a key point of focus for our risk management. change in Japan and overseas Guided by our Sustainability Policy, we have established 86 Sumitomo Mitsui Trust Holdings, Inc. 2020 Integrated Report ESG (5) Climate-Related Portfolio Analysis at will most likely exceed the amount permitted for achieving Group Asset Manager the 2°C scenario. For this reason, Sumitomo Mitsui Trust Sumitomo Mitsui Trust Asset Management, one of the Asset Management plans to actively pursue the following Group’s asset managers, assesses climate change risks in initiatives with the objective of reducing emissions. its portfolio for each asset class, as well as overall assets • Evaluate how investee companies are taking steps to reduce under management. It uses two assessment methods: (1) greenhouse gases, promote the use of renewable energy a fixed point analysis based on information disclosure and and energy-saving measures, and achieve a carbon-free or performance of the companies comprising the portfolio; low-carbon society by, for example, developing alternative and (2) a transition path analysis based on future climate products to those derived from fossil fuels. And through change scenarios. The transition path analysis assesses active engagement, encourage them to disclose information how climate change risks in the portfolio will change under about, and take action on, climate change issues. future climate change scenarios. • M ake use of joint engagement opportunities (IICEF, The chart below represents an overview of the results CA100+, PRI, etc.) with other institutional investors and of assessing the resilience of Sumitomo Mitsui Trust Asset encourage investee companies to disclose information Management’s portfolio of Japanese stocks against cliabout, and take action on, climate change issues. mate change scenarios using time-series comparisons. • C ollaborate with the TCFD Consortium and relevant Estimates of the portfolio’s future greenhouse gas emisgovernment agencies and step up activities in Japan and sions were compared against the volume of emissions (caroverseas to recommend to stock exchanges around the bon budget) calculated for each climate change scenario. world that they encourage listed companies to disclose Specifically, in addition to the 2°C scenario, the benchmark information concerning climate change. of the Paris Agreement, comparisons with the 4°C scenario and the 6°C scenario confirm that, assuming the status (6) Initiative-Based Engagement and Collaboration quo, the portfolio’s emissions will reach the level permitbetween Stakeholders ted under the 2°C scenario in 2037, but will likely exceed Both Sumitomo Mitsui Trust Asset Management and it thereafter. This analysis used data and methodologies Nikko Asset Management are participants in Climate provided by Institutional Shareholder Services. Action 100+, an initiative established by global institutional investor organizations in December 2017 for the purpose Estimates of portfolio’s future greenhouse gas emissions comof conducting joint engagement activities targeting corpopared to emissions under each climate change scenario (as of June 30, 2019; assessments performed on scope 1 emissions only (direct GHG rations thought to be major greenhouse gas emitters. This emissions of companies)) initiative is based on the TCFD and through collaborative (million tCO2e) 80 engagements with signatory bodies such as the PRI and 6°C scenario Ceres, it calls on the world’s top 100 greenhouse gas emit70 ters to disclose information. Both asset managers leverage their high profiles in Japan and Asia to 60 4°C scenario 50 take charge of leading engagements in 40 Sumitomo Mitsui Trust Asset Management’s portfolio the Asia-Pacific region. 30 2°C scenario In addition to the above, both Group companies participate in numerous global initiatives and carry out steward20 Exceeds allowable emissions in 2037 ship activities through engagement and the exercise of 10 voting rights, thus encouraging companies to disclose cli0 2020 2025 2030 2035 2040 2045 2050 (year) mate change information and urging them to take concrete steps towards addressing climate change issues. This is If greenhouse gas emissions from the companies comprisexpected to help improve sustainability at investee compaing Sumitomo Mitsui Trust Asset Management’s overall portnies and by extension, the entire market. folio of Japanese stocks continue at the current pace, they Sumitomo Mitsui Trust Holdings, Inc. 2020 Integrated Report 87 Initiatives on Key Sustainability Issues 5. Environmental and Social Considerations in Investments and Loans Policy on investments and loans at SuMi TRUST Bank Prohibited transactions • Transactions that are considered immoral, which involve anti-social forces, or where the use of funds is speculative • Transactions with cluster munitions manufacturers and credit transactions with companies that have material involvement in the manufacturing process through lending and other activities with cluster munitions manufacturers Transactions warranting special attention • Coal-fired power generation In principle, we do not participate in any new coal-fired power generation projects being considered for construction. That said, we may make exceptions by carefully and comprehensively considering the background, attributes, and other factors of each individual project if it meets strict environmental standards, such as OECD guidelines and power generation efficiency performance. • Weapons manufacturing We avoid lending and other activities in which funds are to be used for manufacturing nuclear weapons, chemical weapons, biological weapons, or other weapons of mass destruction, or for manufacturing inhumane weapons such as antipersonnel landmines. • Forests We engage with timber manufacturers and manufacturers using raw materials from these industries only after carefully checking international forest certifications and taking into full account the existence of any problems involving indigenous peoples and local communities. • Palm oil We engage with palm oil producers and manufacturers using raw materials from these industries only after carefully checking international or local sustainable palm oil certifications and taking into full account the existence of any problems involving indigenous peoples and local communities. *For more information, refer to our March 31, 2020 press release regarding the reviewing of our policies and an outline of our views on environmental and social considerations for loans. Initiatives based on the Equator Principles SuMi TRUST Bank is a signatory to the Equator Principles, global guidelines that call on private financial institutions to fully consider the impacts on the natural environment and local communities when extending project finance and other loans to entities undertaking projects. When making the decision to extend loans, SuMi TRUST Bank conducts a comprehensive risk assessment involving a review of the environmental and societal impacts based on the project’s environmental and societal risks, project location, and type of business. *Refer to pages 129–131 in our 2019/2020 ESG Report for more information. Signatory to the Poseidon Principles SuMi TRUST Bank became the first financial institution in Asia to sign on to the Poseidon Principles, an initiative launched by financial institutions to address climate change risks in the marine transportation industry. A signatory to the Principles will, on an annual basis, measure the carbon intensity and assess climate alignment—carbon intensity relative to established decarbonization pathways—of its shipping portfolio using the methodology established by the Principles. SuMi TRUST Bank will also publish the overall climate alignment of its shipping portfolio starting from FY2021. *For more information, refer to our March 13, 2020 press release regarding signing on to the Poseidon Principles by our subsidiary. 88 Sumitomo Mitsui Trust Holdings, Inc. 2020 Integrated Report ESG Initiatives at Sumitomo Mitsui Trust Asset Management ESG Guidelines As a signatory asset manager to the PRI and with a core focus on the United Nations Global Compact and the values expressed in the SDGs, Sumitomo Mitsui Trust Asset Management (SMTAM) engages with investee companies to help solve their ESG issues and contribute to mediumto long-term corporate value, all the while engaging in ESG-oriented investment activity. SMTAM has established 12 items of materiality in an effort to organize the categories used when evaluating an investee company. Moreover, for self-managed active products and fixed income passive products, as well as separately established passive products, SMTAM’s policy is to no longer purchase new or additional securities issued by any company involved in the manufacture of the following inhumane weapons, and depending on the results of engagement, will divest its current holdings of such securities. Inhumane weapons: Cluster munitions, anti-personnel landmines, biological weapons, and chemical weapons ESG Engagement Policy SMTAM sees engagement as an opportunity to seek best practices from companies and communicates its own views so as to contribute to the enhancement of corporate value over the medium to long term by solving the ESG issues of investee companies. It has designated four key topics, including climate change and the backing of corporate governance reforms, through which it conducts top-down engagement activities. At the same time, SMTAM also employs a systematic bottom-up approach based on 12 items of materiality. And in addition to its own engagement activities, SMTAM also conducts activities through collaborative engagements by participating in global initiatives that aim to address numerous agenda items, such as greenhouse gas emissions, palm oil, forest conservation, access to medical care, and diversity (appointment of women to management positions). Initiatives at Nikko Asset Management ESG Guidelines Principle 1: Nikko Asset Management (Nikko AM) incorporates ESG issues in investment analysis and decision-making. Principle 2: Nikko AM is an active owner and incorporates ESG issues into its ownership policies and practices. Principle 3: Nikko AM seeks appropriate disclosure on ESG issues by the entities in which it invests. Principle 4: Nikko AM promotes the acceptance and implementation of the Principles for Responsible Investment within the investment industry. Principle 5: Nikko AM collaborates to enhance effectiveness in implementing the Principles for Responsible Investment. Principle 6: Nikko AM reports its activities and progress towards implementing the Principles for Responsible Investment. Nikko AM’s commitment to responsible investing. https://www.nikkoam.com/about/fiduciary/esg ESG Engagement Policy Engagement activities at Nikko AM involve the exchanging of opinions in line with an investee company’s growth phase from a long-term perspective with regard to not only earnings and financial strategies, but also the management policies, business strategies, shareholder return policies, and ESG issues mentioned in non-financial information already disclosed. Nikko AM engages with a broad range of parties, from the management teams of investee companies, through to their finance departments, business planning departments, and even officers in charge of business operations. Particularly with regard to companies that are reluctant to disclose information, Nikko AM endeavors to reinforce the benefits of engagement by proposing meetings with management. Nikko AM seeks to realize closer engagements with investee companies with the goal of sharing accurate information about their situation and supporting the creation of mediumto long-term corporate value. Sumitomo Mitsui Trust Holdings, Inc. 2020 Integrated Report 89 Initiatives on Key Sustainability Issues 6. Delivering Value to Communities Delivering value to communities is a means for the SuMi page 81). We will look to ascertain the social value that TRUST Group to have a positive impact on stakeholders in these activities generate so that we might implement more a more direct manner. Some initiatives are Group-wide (see beneficial initiatives in the future. below), while others are being implemented independently *Refer to pages 164–194 in our 2019/2020 ESG Report for more information. by Group companies, like the “With You” activities (see UWC ISAK Supporting a school that unearths and nurtures “changemakers” from disadvantaged backgrounds Initiative Value generated (particular SDGs emphasized) KPI Every year since 2013, the Group has paid for the travel expenses and • Unearth talented students from The career of students after tuition fees of one scholarship student attending the summer school disadvantaged backgrounds so graduating (where possible, program of United World College ISAK Japan (Lin Kobayashi, School they might become “changemaktrace the career paths of scholFounder and Chair of the Board), a school that incorporates the idea of ers” and help change the world arship students that received nurturing “changemakers” into its educational philosophy. As of 2020, • Have graduates now active in sociassistance) UWC ISAK Japan has accepted seven participants into the summer ety address poverty issues in the school program, most of them being scholarship students from Shanti regions they hail from Bhavan, a school for lower-caste children in India. ESD project Innovative SDG-focused education program that sparks awareness of sustainability in the next-generation Initiative Value generated (particular SDGs emphasized) KPI The Group collaborates with sustainability and communication company • Archive of class “making-of” videos Accumulation of social value TREE (Masahiro Mizuno, Representative Director) to run a progressive • Using themes to create awareness generated by each program ESD (education for sustainable development) project at mainly schools of local SDG issues (recorded video supplied to throughout Japan with the use of visual aids and ICT. Since 2012, 13 ses• Development of innovative ESD schools, new method trials, sions of the program have been held at a pace of two per year. In recent methods using mainly ICT etc.) years in particular, collaboration with local boards of education across Japan has focused on the education of teachers. Going forward, online classes and other cutting-edge initiatives will be employed. Supporting national trusts Supporting national trust activities mainly to protect local ecosystems Initiative Value generated (particular SDGs emphasized) KPI Since 2005 the Group has teamed up with the Association of National • S upporting the preservation of • Number of ongoing support Trusts in Japan and the Ecosystem Conservation Society-Japan (which has Japan’s unique environment and programs a close relationship with the former) to engage in various activities. For ecosystems through land conser• Area of trust land purchased example, setting up a donation program to help purchase trust land, hostvation through donation programs ing panel exhibitions at our branches, cooperating on a joint display at the • Supporting regional revitalization EcoPro exhibition, and hosting ESD programs on trust land. More recently, initiatives by harnessing the envimost of our activities have focused on supporting regional revitalization. ronment as a local resource Zero plastic waste declaration Implementing Group-wide measures to help reduce ocean plastic pollution Initiative Value generated (particular SDGs emphasized) KPI In 2019 the Group declared it would aim to achieve zero plastic waste • Reducing the amount of plastic All Group companies will (i.e., plastic discarded without being recycled) by the year 2030. To used by the Group and making switch totally to using winthis end, Group-wide measures are currently being promoted, such sure plastic is recycled dowed envelopes that use as activities that aim to encourage employees not to throw out plastic • Making employees more aware Graphan (a pulp-based materubbish, reviewing the Group’s material that is often distributed to cliby having them tackle a universal rial) in FY2020 ents, and changing the material used in windowed envelopes. environmental problem UWC ISAK ESD project Supporting national trusts Zero plastic waste declaration 90 Sumitomo Mitsui Trust Holdings, Inc. 2020 Integrated Report ESG Multi-stakeholder Partnerships Goal 17 of the SDGs is about advancing different types of partnerships for the purpose of achieving the goals. In recognizing that finance plays a key role in the formation of a sustainable society, the Group collaborates with various stakeholders, including other financial institutions, places much emphasis on actions that attempt to solve challenging issues, and actively participates in initiatives in Japan and overseas. Major initiatives SuMi Trust Holdings is a signatory to or participates in UNEP FI (United Nations Environment Programme United Nations Global Compact Principles for Responsible Banking Principles for Responsible Investment Finance Initiative) (UN Global Compact) (PRB) (PRI) Principles for Financial Action Leadership Declaration under Business TCFD (Task Force on Climate-related CDP for the 21st Century and Biodiversity Initiative Financial Disclosures) “Biodiversity in Good Company” About the Principles for Responsible Banking We became a founding signatory to the Principles for Responsible Banking (PRB) advocated for by the United Nations Environment Programme Finance Initiative (UNEP FI) and launched in September 2019. By focusing on the areas in which our core business has significant impact, setting goals for specific initiatives, and taking action, we hope to make the greatest contributions towards achieving the targets of the SDGs on both a global and local level. Having signed on to the PRB, we are obligated to disclose information about our initiatives every year. We plan to disclose this information for the first time in our ESG Report slated for release at the end of 2020. Major initiatives SuMi TRUST Bank is a signatory to or participates in The Equator Principles The Poseidon Principles Major initiatives Sumitomo Mitsui Trust Asset Management and Nikko Asset Management are signatories to or participate in (excluding the initiatives SuMi Trust Holdings is a signatory to) International Corporate Climate Action 100+ AIGCC Thirty Percent Coalition member Governance Network 30% Club UK / 30% Club Japan Investor Group member Access to Medicine Ceres FAIRR Investor Agenda *Refer to pages 135–137 in our 2019/2020 ESG Report for more information. Sumitomo Mitsui Trust Holdings, Inc. 2020 Integrated Report 91 Human Resources Strategy We consider employees to be one of the key capitals (human capital) at the source of value creation for the SuMi TRUST Group. We also believe them to be the stakeholders to whom the Group delivers direct impacts. In line with the Group’s Basic Policy for Personnel Affairs Management and driven by the two-pronged approach of bolstering human resources and maintaining workplace environments based on our principles of diversity and inclusion, we aim to improve the skills of our workforce to deliver total solutions and contribute to the enhancement of corporate value. Improvement of corporate value Creation of social value Creation of economic value Demonstration of SuMi TRUST Group-wide value Highly capable human capital Bolstering human resources Maintaining workplace environments Human Resources Development Policy (TRUST) Declaration on Work Style Reform Training & Off-JT Optimization of work styles Strengthening: Self-determined and flexible work style Strengthening: SuMiTRUST University Placements & OJT Culture that fosters motivation Fair evaluation & Health management Enhancing leadership and job satisfaction treatment Strengthening: Employee engagement Strengthening: Health guidance Acquiring and shaping a diverse pool of human resources Diversity & Inclusion Basic Policy for Personnel Affairs Management Status of the Group of Personnel that Provides Comprehensive Solutions Number of financial consultants Fellows (“SEI-KAIIN”) of the Institute Number of registered (number of female consultants shown in parentheses) of Actuaries of Japan real estate transaction agents March 31, 2019: March 31, 2020: March 31, 2019: March 31, 2020: March 31, 2019: March 31, 2020: 264 (9) 267 (17) 44 43 5,638 5,611 Bolster Human Resources Status of positions of female employees Number of hours of training held Number of applicants for voluntary training (March 31, 2020) FY2018: FY2019: FY2018: FY2019: Executives: General manager Section manager level postings: level postings: 5,145 hours 5,705 hours 1,105 1,338 4 12 135 Maintaining Workplace Environments Supporting work-life balance Number of users Number of leave days used Childcare leave: Nursing care Childcare leave for Cancer treatment of the internal job posting system leave: male employees: leave: FY2018: FY2019: FY2018: FY2019: 14.9 days 14.6 days 356 177 164 37 (March 31, 2020) (cumulative total for FY2019) (cumulative total for FY2019) (cumulative total for FY2019) 494 595 (All figures are actual results of SuMi TRUST Bank) 92 Sumitomo Mitsui Trust Holdings, Inc. 2020 Integrated Report ESG 1. Diversity & Inclusion Guided by the SuMi TRUST Group’s management princiMeanwhile, at branch offices and departments, a bottom-up ples (mission), we seek to harness the diversity and creativapproach to D&I was adopted by providing opportunities to ity of each and every individual—the very concept behind female employees to think about their own careers by interactdiversity and inclusion—and our Basic Policy for Personnel Affairs ing with female employees from other companies. Management aims to add value to the organization by making Female executives and managers at SuMi TRUST Bank full use of the diversity and creativity of all employees. The busiMarch 31, March 31, March 31, ness model of a trust bank group should aim to offer added value 2018 2019 2020 to its clients by leveraging the breadth of diversity throughout 2 2 4 the organization. While we have always believed in respecting (1) Executives (2.8%) (2.9%) (5.7%) diversity as an organization, we consider it vital that our employ(2) W omen in general manager 6 9 12 ees reaffirm the strengths of the Group so that we can continue level positions (2.4%) (3.7%) (4.8%) to enhance our diversity. SuMi TRUST Holdings and SuMi TRUST (3) W omen in section manager 130 134 135 Bank have each established a Diversity & Inclusion Office (D&I level positions (11.3%) (11.8%) (11.7%) Office) within the Human Resources Department. SuMi TRUST (4) Women in section manager 136 143 147 or higher decision-making Bank’s D&I Office comprises dedicated employees from the (9.7%) (10.3%) (10.5%) positions ((2)+(3)) Human Resources Department and business supervising depart(5) Women in charge of man1,369 1,423 1,570 ments. In addition to promoting the diversification of work styles agement operations (22.6%) (23.9%) (25.8%) for individual employees, the D&I Office implements measures *Ratio of women shown in parentheses. Executive officers included in (1). Women in that best suit the situation of each business with the aim of assistant manager or higher positions shown in (5), which also includes (4). enhancing corporate value. (2) Initiatives on Supporting Work-Life Balance Total Women Men SuMi TRUST Bank has introduced two new leave systems: Number of employees (SuMi TRUST Bank) (1) workplace reassignments for employees whose spouse has March 31, 2020 13,527 7,577 5,950 been relocated; and (2) leave for employees when their spouse Number of new graduates hired (SuMi TRUST Bank) has been transferred overseas. The use of either system will FY2020 400 261 139 help employees continue their careers without being disrupted by major life events. (1) Initiatives for Active Participation and Advancement Number of system users of Women Workplace reassignments in Japan System for taking leave to accomas of March 31, 2020 pany spouse transferred overseas, Guided by its general employer action plan commitment as of March 31, 2020 under Japan’s Act of Promotion of Women’s Participation and Advancement in the Workplace, SuMi TRUST Bank aimed to 150 14 have 300 female employees in managerial positions (section Alongside the periodic provision of information to employmanager or higher) by the end of March 2020. This target was ees on maternity or childcare leave, we are working to creachieved ahead of schedule in October 2019 with 357 female ate an environment in which employees can actively balance employees appointed to such positions. And from April 2020, both child-rearing and work by organizing seminars aimed at with the goal of increasing the number of women in decisionfacilitating their smooth return to work and supporting career making positions, SuMi TRUST Bank formulated a new action development thereafter. plan to have more than 12% of female employees appointed As for balancing work with nursing care, we have distributed to section manager or higher and more than 30% in charge of a handbook about this subject and hosted a seminar together management operations by the end of March 2023. Pipeline with the employees’ union. Also, in the action plan that kicked models have been formulated to facilitate the planned nurturing off from April 2020, we set a goal of achieving at least 60 evalof employees in each business, while measures are being impleuation points (considered a positive assessment) in an annual mented to bolster their systematic development with a view to awareness survey on nursing care schemes and corporate future appointments and support career planning. Such meaculture. In this way, we are working to improve nursing care sures include rank-based training for women in leadership posischemes and foster a corporate culture in which such schemes tions, career design workshops to assist self-determined career are more user-friendly. We also have in place a framework that planning, and seminars for female employees in which executive supports diverse work styles; for example, we lend our support officers deliver lectures. In addition, an unconscious bias training to employees requiring cancer treatment so they can balance session for senior executives was also held as one way of institheir hospital visits with work duties, and we also encourage gating a change in mindset among the management team. the use of teleworking. Sumitomo Mitsui Trust Holdings, Inc. 2020 Integrated Report 93 Human Resources Strategy (3) Promoting Active Participation by Diverse Human • Promoting active participation of global employees Resources SuMi TRUST Bank offers training every year to locally hired • Promoting active participation by disabled persons employees working at its overseas branches and overseas The Group aims to be a place where employees can work with subsidiaries to deepen their understanding of the Group and motivation and display their talents to the fullest as members its operations and to also strengthen networks among parof the workplace, whether or not they are disabled. At SuMi ticipants and respective business lines. In order to facilitate TRUST Bank, employees with disabilities work alongside their smoother communication with employees of other nationalicolleagues at branch offices where they have contact with clients ties, the Bank also organizes a Japanese language course with or perform back-office tasks at head office. The Bank also makes lessons to assist the learning of Japanese and holds interculefforts to interview employees after they start work to respond to tural communication training for supervisors of foreign national concerns or requests that arise after starting work, and uses the employees. With the aim of encouraging the active participapoints brought up in the interviews to create an easier working tion and promotion to management of employees hired at environment from physical and mental perspectives. overseas offices, the Bank organizes transfers to offices in different countries or long-term postings to Japan. Disabled person Branch offices and departments Employees also have the opportunity at the end of this employment ratio with employees with disabilities (as of March 31, 2020) (as of March 31, 2020) training to put into practice what they have learned primarily through promotion and job rotation. 2.29% 108 branch offices and departments (SuMi TRUST Bank) External Evaluation (as of June 30, 2020) Sumitomo Mitsui Trust Holdings, Inc. Selected as Nadeshiko Brand by Selected in the White 500 for the third year running by METI Selected by Bloomberg in Bloomberg Ministry of Economy, Trade and Industry and Nippon Kenko Kaigi as an organization having outstanding Gender-Equality Index for second (METI) and Tokyo Stock Exchange (TSE) health and productivity management year running Sumitomo Mitsui Trust Bank, Limited Selected by METI among winners of New In recognition of its work to address LGBT issues, SuMi TRUST Diversity Management Selection 100 project Obtained “Platinum Kurumin” Holdings, SuMi TRUST Bank (awarded Gold in 2017 and 2018) certification from Ministry of and Sumitomo Mitsui Trust Asset Management collectively Health, Labour and Welfare received the Gold rating in wwP’s Pride Index. Nikko Asset Management was recognized individually. Membership Sumitomo Mitsui Trust Asset Management Thirty Percent Coalition member 30% Club UK, 30% Club Japan Investor Group member 94 Sumitomo Mitsui Trust Holdings, Inc. 2020 Integrated Report ESG 2. Bolstering Human Resource (2) Enhancing Training and Other Off-JT* Programs The SuMi TRUST Group has established the SuMiTRUST HR HR development participation University to offer group training with the objective of improvNo.1 No.1 ing employee business skills and management abilities. In addition, many opportunities in the self-development programs encourage employees to continue improving their skills. The company’s president serves as the dean of SuMiTRUST University, while the executive officer in charge of the Human The SuMi TRUST Group Human Resources Development Policy Resources Department and an external expert serve as vice The SuMi TRUST Group will maintain its workplace environment deans. The university is a group-wide program that also and bolster its human resources based on a development spirit receives advice regarding management from the graduate consisting of “TRUST,” for the growth and career development of school of Hitotsubashi University. From FY2020 we plan to turn the employees who will create our future. SuMiTRUST University into a platform through which employTalent……………Talent (individuality) can blossom ees can discover their own appetite for learning, connect with others around them, and learn from each other. We also intend Respect…………Respect each individual to enhance the content offered and strengthen the university’s Uniqueness………Develop true professionals infrastructure so that it is more user-friendly. Support…………Make mutual teaching and support our motto *Off-the-job training: Workshops, training, and other methods are utilized to provide Try…………………Praise small, daily challenges employees with the knowledge and skills that cannot be acquired through OJT. Based on the “fiduciary spirit of TRUST,” the SuMi TRUST Group aims to contribute to our clients and the continuous development of society through the growth of our employees, thereby maxi(3) Enhancing Leadership mizing the creation of shared value and becoming the corporate SuMi TRUST Bank offers a program to develop next-genergroup that is chosen by society. ation executive candidates in cooperation with Hitotsubashi University’s Graduate Programs. Candidates receive instruction Having set the goal of being the “No. 1 financial group for on the values, general liberal arts knowledge, and MBA elehuman resource development,” the Group established its ments they need for management, and through sessions and Human Resources Development Policy (TRUST) in April 2018. courses, they complete the program by presenting a proposal We will also strive to be the “No. 1 financial group for human to senior executives. The Bank also provides a leadership resource participation,” where diverse human resourcdevelopment program for female employees to step up to es can play active roles based on this Human Resources management through various rank-based training. After the Development Policy. employees complete their training, operations are conducted such as providing them with opportunities to practice what (1) Skill-Raising Human Resource Assignment and OJT* they have learned during training in a variety of environments, The SuMi TRUST Group views OJT as the foundation for primarily through promotion and job rotation. human resource development. We also focus on assigning employees to roles that awaken their passion for growth and (4) Fair Evaluations and Treatment allow them to display their abilities to the maximum extent. Fair and just evaluations and treatment in accordance with In fiscal year 2018, SuMi TRUST Bank introduced a program abilities, roles, and results form the basis of SuMi TRUST Bank’s that enables younger employees to experience multiple work performance evaluation system. The system used is based domains within a fixed period. We are also advancing initiaon a participatory model, in which employees communicate tives such as a trust internship program aimed at developing closely with their supervisors on a daily basis to establish and human resources who possess a “high degree of expert knowlreview specific goals. The process focuses not only issues edge in trust operations” and a “deep understanding of the related to the performance of duties, but formulates and fiduciary spirit.” provides feedback on future career development. Also, as a * OJT: On-the-Job Training. OJT is a process whereby workplace supervisors and senior means of obtaining a multifaceted view of personnel, we have employees teach subordinates the knowledge, skills, and duties required of them introduced an anonymous survey through which subordinates via their daily tasks. and others can rate the day-to-day management actions of line managers (general managers, deputy general managers, section managers, etc.). By conducting this survey, we can encourage management action reform and foster a culture of interactive communication. Sumitomo Mitsui Trust Holdings, Inc. 2020 Integrated Report 95 Human Resources Strategy 3. Upholding Positive Workplace Environments tions mandatory. The Human Resources Department and othDeclaration on Work Style Reform ers follow up on every individual to ensure that everyone who requires treatment at a healthcare institution receives it. From The SuMi TRUST Group hereby declares it a top commitment to offer a workplace where the diversity and creativity of its employFY2020 we plan to focus our efforts more than ever before on ees are more fully utilized to add value to the organization and health guidance and with the establishment of health promowhere employees can have pride and be highly motivated in fultion centers and other pieces of infrastructure, we will endeavfilling their missions. The Group as a whole will work towards the following goals. or to engage in a style of health and productivity management befitting of the age of 100-year life. With regard to mental 1. Achieving diverse work styles and work-life balance health, we provide line management-based care and carry out 2.  Supporting health improvement through measures stress checks once a year. Group results are provided to the such as boosting health awareness and appropriately employees’ union, and we discuss improvements in workplace managing work hours environments and make efforts to further improve them. 3. Providing opportunities for all employees to grow Specific initiatives while participating actively with motivation •E stablish and adhere to rules for taking breaks between work shifts Through the enthusiastic work of each individual employee, we •T horoughly implement attendance management and prevent will continue to be a corporate group that contributes to the benoverwork among all Group employees efit of clients and is useful to society. • Prohibit smoking in all buildings In terms of maintaining workplace environments, we have (3) A Culture that Fosters Motivation and Job Satisfaction set up the Work Style Reform Headquarters headed by the We work to build a climate that supports challenges and presidents of both SuMi TRUST Holdings and SuMi TRUST learning and activates bi-directional dialogue toward “providBank, and have also formulated a Declaration on Work Style ing opportunities for all employees to grow while participating Reform to which the company’s management team is commitactively with motivation.” The SuMi TRUST Group has always ted to achieving. The initiatives we have implemented under encouraged activities that create opportunities for learning, this declaration have been rated favorably by numerous orgasuch as circles formed by groups both in-house and outside, nizations (see page 94). and has regularly held lectures by outside instructors. SuMi TRUST Bank encourages employees to independently and vol(1) Optimizing Work Styles untarily shape their own careers through changes in job posiWith the aim of achieving diverse work styles and work-life tion or through an internal job-posting system. Since fiscal year balance, SuMi TRUST Holdings actively develops workplace 2018, we have promoted activities for employees to shape environments in which employees can work at ease and still their own futures, which solicit ideas from employees for the maintain a good balance between work and personal life. In creation of new businesses and services. We received a total of addition to enhancing its various systems related to childbirth 267 ideas from 499 employees group-wide in fiscal year 2019, and childcare, including encouraging male employees to which has helped improve employee motivation. In order to take childcare leave (103.2% of eligible male employees took spread and maintain this culture, it is essential to have good childcare leave in FY2019), SuMi TRUST Bank introduced a bi-directional dialogue between executives and employees. new leave system in FY2019 to help employees balance cancer SuMi TRUST Bank held 31 consultation meetings and informal treatment and work. meetings between union and management in fiscal year 2019. This fiscal year too we will continue to reduce the volume The Bank also uses occasions when employees gather, such as of work at our branches mainly by expanding the functionality rank-based training, as opportunities for discussion and quesof our internal systems. A reduction in work volume means we tions about management policies, leadership, and other topics can reassign employees with the capacity for an increase in by the president and other executives. workload to strategic areas and further broaden client interaction by streamlining functions across multiple branches. (2) Health Management The SuMi TRUST Group’s active initiatives to promote better physical and mental health of all Group employees have been recognized for the third year running with our selection in the White 500 as an organization having outstanding health and productivity management. With regard to physical health, we provide health examinations every year and make reexaminaSeminar by executives 96 Sumitomo Mitsui Trust Holdings, Inc. 2020 Integrated Report ESG 4. Human Rights (1) Human Rights Management Committee chaired by the Head of Human Resources engages • Basic philosophy in the formulation and implementation of various training proThe SuMi TRUST Group’s human rights management is based grams and education activities concerning human rights issues on the “Guiding Principles for Business and Human Rights,” at all Group companies, branches, and departments. which was adopted by the United Nations Human Rights Training aimed at raising awareness about human rights Council in June 2011. We have established the Human Rights was held at 261 departments in FY2019. Together with lectures Policy along with the Basic Policy on the Social Responsibility of delivered during rank-based training sessions, 403 hours in total Sumitomo Mitsui Trust Group (Sustainability Policy) to respect were dedicated to human rights, reaching 24,177 participants. the human rights of all stakeholders. *Refer to pages 160–161 in our 2019/2020 ESG Report for more information on human rights due diligence. Human Rights Policy: https://www.smth.jp/en/csr/management/human_rights_policy/index.html (2) Protecting Various Human Rights • Human rights management system based on • Initiatives to address Dowa and foreign residents issues the guiding principles for business and human rights The SuMi TRUST Group regards tackling discrimination The SuMi TRUST Group works to improve the quality of its against the Dowa caste as a particularly important theme in the human rights management in a PDCA cycle, in order to foster promotion of human rights education, and has worked to coma corporate culture and workplace environment that respects pletely eliminate prejudiced or discriminatory views against the the basic human rights of all stakeholders, by respecting indiDowa caste. With regard to foreign residents issues, we make all vidual human rights and diverse values, while eliminating disemployees aware of giving consideration to the human rights of crimination. The SuMi TRUST Group has not had any cases of foreign residents, including the handling of personal authenticainfringement of human rights in the past three years. tion documents and respecting privacy. Commitment Establishment of the Human Rights Policy. • Prevention of sexual harassment and power harassment Once a year, the Human Rights Due Actions such as sexual harassment and power harassment Diligence Self-check List*2 is distributed Implementation of are prohibited at the SuMi TRUST Group. In the event harassto all branches, departments, and affilihuman rights due ates both at home and abroad as a tool ment does occur, advice is sought and complaints are regisdiligence*1 to check the status of respect for human tered via the Harassment Prevention Committee representative rights at each unit. in each branch and department, or directly by the Personnel The Personnel Consultation Desk in the Consultation Desk (LGBT Consultation Desk) within the Human Access to redress Human Resources Department serves as a contact point. Resources Department. Stringent corrective measures or punishment are implemented against the perpetrators. *1 H uman rights due diligence refers to a series of initiatives to identify actual or potenThe Personnel Consultation Desk (LGBT Consultation Desk) tial impacts on human rights, resulting from the activities of the Group or related outside parties, to develop measures for the prevention or mitigation of such impacts, responds to various consultations related to human rights and, and to continuously verify and disclose the effectiveness of such measures. in cases where a negative impact on human rights is evident, *2 A check list serves to verify the progress in each department concerned with the cooperates with the related departments to promptly take meaHuman Rights Management System, such as the status of implementation of human rights due diligence, compliance with the Human Rights Policy, and occurrence of sures as needed. In fiscal year 2019, the Personnel Consultation human rights violations. Desk received 68 consultations, of which 27 were situations involving concerns about human rights violations, including • Human Rights Due Diligence Liaison Committee harassment. Five of these situations remain unresolved, and we The Human Rights Due Diligence Liaison Committee, are working with the related departments to settle these cases. chaired by the head of the Sustainability Management Department of the Corporate Planning Department, was • Initiatives to prevent discrimination against LGBT people established as a joint organization by SuMi TRUST Holdings We strive to ensure thorough prevention of discriminaand SuMi TRUST Bank. The committee investigates how tion against sexual minorities such as LGBT in hiring or perhuman rights are being addressed at all Group companies, forming their work. Our Personnel Consultation Desk (LGBT including overseas entities, identifies issues and risks that need Consultation Desk) addresses this issue as an ally (supporter). to be addressed, and discusses and implements measures for improvement. Based on discussions by the committee, • Investments and loans related to cluster bombs the Corporate Planning Department formulates objectives The SuMi TRUST Group refuses to provide loans to foreign and plans for the development and reinforcement of the or domestic companies that produce cluster bombs, which are framework of initiatives, and the Human Rights Education recognized as a weapon raising strong humanitarian concerns. Sumitomo Mitsui Trust Holdings, Inc. 2020 Integrated Report 97 Management Foundation Risk Appetite Framework 1. Positioning of the Risk Appetite Framework The Risk Appetite Framework (RAF) is a group-wide corThe Group’s RAF aims primarily to strengthen profitabilporate management framework consisting of the process for ity and enhance risk management, and promote the enhancedetermining risk appetite (the type and amount of risk to be ment of the transparency of deliberation and determination willingly taken to achieve the management plan) within the process for the overall risk taking policy in capital allocation Group’s risk capacity, in order to achieve the management and profit maximization, etc. through the setting, communicastrategies formulated by management based on the Group’s tion, and oversight of risk appetite, as well as the optimization social role and management principles, together with the and speed-up of allocation of management resources and internal control system underpinning that process. reinforce the monitoring system through the use of RAF as the universal language of the Group. Outline of the Risk Appetite Framework Social role Risk culture Management policies / Management strategies Business characteristics / Risk characteristics / Risk governance Environmental assumptions / Risk to be taken Risk awareness Risk to be avoided Stress Risk capacity tests Management plans, etc. Risk appetite Internal control system 2. Operation of Risk Appetite (1) Determining Risk Appetite each business within the scope of policy set by the Board The Group classifies risks into two categories: (1) risk to be of Directors, which will be then resolved by the Executive taken (that occurs in relation to activities that generate returns) Committee. and (2) risk to be avoided (such as conduct risk that cannot be The risk-taking policy and risk appetite indicators are detertolerated by the Group). mined in accordance with the management plan. These are Under RAF, the Group establishes a risk-taking policy, which reviewed at any time at least once a year or when necessary. is an overriding management policy based on its Mission, Vision, and Value, and takes into account the results of stress (2) Monitoring of Risk Appetite tests to set risk appetite indicators, then they are resolved In order to verify that risk taking is carried out appropriately by the Board of Directors. In addition, the Group sets more based on its business model, the Group sets separate risk in-depth risk-taking policy and risk appetite indicators for appetite indicators from the perspective of return, risk, and 98 Sumitomo Mitsui Trust Holdings, Inc. 2020 Integrated Report cost, and monitors them regularly. If the indicators deviate ing, by clarifying and monitoring risk appetite. from the set levels, the Group analyzes the cause and impleThe Group promotes the enhancement of risk governance, ments countermeasures or revises the levels. with the aim of achieving the sound development of the Group. (3) Risk Governance SuMi TRUST Holdings strives to enhance the operation of Risk governance, which forms a part of corporate goverrisk appetite through discussions at the Risk Committee and nance, is a framework for identifying, measuring, managing, the Conflicts of Interest Committee, etc. as part of its initiatives and controlling risks, as well as ensuring appropriate risk takto enhance corporate governance. Risk Appetite Framework Operating System Supervision • Deciding on the RAS and basic matters related to the RAF Board of Directors • Supervising execution of business based on relevant decisions Audit Committee • Auditing execution of business based on basic matters related to the RAF • Deliberating the status of operation and execution related to RAF and Risk Committee making recommendations to the Board of Directors SuMi TRUST Holdings Conflicts of • Verifying the appropriateness of the conflict of interest management framework Interest Committee and making recommendations to the Board of Directors Execution • Drafting the RAS and basic matters related to the RAF Executive Committee • Enhancing the RAF and executing business based on the RAF Business Risk • Enhancing the RAF and promoting execution of business based on the RAF Management Committee • Monitoring the operating status of the RAF Conflict of Interest • Developing and strengthening the conflict of interest management framework Management Enhancement Committee and checking the implementation status 3. Fostering a Risk Culture that Takes Root across the SuMi TRUST Group The Group defines risk culture as a basic philosophy that Group, we have formulated risk-taking policies for each busiprescribes the codes, attitudes, and conduct of the Group’s ness to clarify management strategies, and are endeavoring to organizations, as well as its directors, officers and employees, have all its employees secure soundness through appropriate that flexibly carry out risk taking, risk management, and risk risk taking and develop a sustainable business model. In addicontrol based on an appropriate assessment of risks, guided tion, we have formulated a Risk Appetite Statement clearly by a high degree of self-discipline based on the fiduciary spirit. stating our RAF, which is used as a universal language in lively In order to foster a risk culture that takes root across the discussions concerning risk appetite within the Group. Sumitomo Mitsui Trust Holdings, Inc. 2020 Integrated Report 99 Risk Management 1. Basic Policy on Risk Management In order to ensure sound management, secure revenue ing, control and mitigation, validation for advancement, and through risk taking based on management strategies, and review, based on the Group’s management policy and basic achieve sustainable growth, the Group follows a basic policy of policy on the internal control system. accurately assessing risk conditions and implementing necesThe Group’s risk management framework encompasses the sary risk-related measures through a series of risk management Risk Appetite Framework, and integrates it to function organiactivities, including risk identification, evaluation, monitorcally within the Group. 2. The Group’s Risk Characteristics Based on a fiduciary spirit, and leveraging its significant trust business operations, we have established Group-wide expertise and comprehensive capabilities, the Group, as a Trust Business Guidelines to provide information about basic financial group specialized in trust banking, strives to create matters that warrant caution. SuMi TRUST Bank primarily mandistinct value through a total solution business model that ages these risks in the operational risk category, particularly combines its banking, asset management and administration, in terms of its duty of due care as a prudent manager, duty of real estate businesses and others. loyalty, and duty to segregate property as a trustee. The Group faces various risks, including credit risk, market Reporting is regularly performed regarding whether the risk, funding liquidity risk, and operational risk, which vary overall risk of the Group, combining the risks of each business, depending on the business characteristics of each of the is within the limits of risk capacity (soundness and liquidity) Group’s businesses. that have been determined by the Board of Directors. As a basis for improving management of risks related to Risk Definition Risk Category Definition Risk that the Group may incur losses due to a decrease or impairment of the value of assets (including off-balance sheet assets), for reasons such as deterioration of the financial condition of obligors. In this regard, “country risk” in Credit Risk particular refers to the risk that the Group may incur losses on credit provided overseas, due to the foreign exchange, political, or economic conditions in the countries where our clients operate. Risk that the Group may incur losses due to fluctuations in the value of assets/liabilities (including off-balance sheet assets/liabilities), or in the earnings generated from assets/liabilities, due to fluctuations in various market risk factors, such as interest rates, foreign exchange rates, stocks, commodities, and credit spreads. In this regard, “market liquidiMarket Risk ty risk” in particular refers to the risk that the Group may incur losses due to a situation in which it becomes impossible to conduct transactions in the market, or becomes obligatory to trade at prices that are significantly more disadvantageous than usual, due to market turmoil. Risk that the Group may incur losses in a situation where it becomes impossible to secure necessary funds, or Funding Liquidity Risk becomes obligatory to raise funds at interest rates significantly higher than usual. Operational Risk Risk that the Group may incur losses due to inadequate or failed bussiness processes, the activities of executives or (Below are “risk sub-categories” within Operational Risk) employees, computer systems, or due to external events. Risk that the Group may incur losses due to inappropriate business procedures arising from executives or employees Business Processing Risk neglecting to engage in proper business activities, or other incidents such as accidents or fraud. Risk that the Group may incur losses due to reasons such as computer system failures, malfunctions, and defects, as System Risk well as the risk that the Group may incur losses due to unauthorized computer usage. Risk that the Group may incur losses due to the improper management or maintenance of information assets. This Information Security Risk includes information leaks, information errors, and misuse of information, as well as an inability to use the information system. Risk that the Group may incur losses due to uncertainty regarding the legal aspects of transactions, or due to insufLegal & Compliance Risk ficient compliance with laws, regulations, etc. Risk that the Group may incur losses due to personnel and labor management issues, such as unequal or unfair manHuman Resource Risk agement of personnel, and harassment. Risk that the Group may incur losses due to external events that impair business, such as natural disasters, crimes such Event Risk as terrorism, damage to public infrastructure that prevents its functioning, and the spread of infectious diseases, or due to the inappropriate use or management of tangible assets. Risk that the Group may incur losses as a result of a deterioration of the reputation of SuMi TRUST Holdings or its subsidiarReputational Risk ies, due to reasons such as mass media reports, rumors, or speculation. 100 Sumitomo Mitsui Trust Holdings, Inc. 2020 Integrated Report Management Foundation 3. Risk Governance System For the group-wide risk governance system, the Group has individual risk management-related departments (second line developed a Three Lines of Defense system consisting of risk of defense), and validation by the Internal Audit Department management by individual businesses (first line of defense), (third line of defense). risk management by the Risk Management Department and Risk Governance System General Meeting of Shareholders SuMi TRUST Holdings Reporting Board of Directors Statutory committees Reporting Supervisory Nominating Committee Compensation Committee Audit Committee Internal Audit Department Body Voluntary committees Risk Committee Conflicts of Interest Committee Supervision Executive Committee Executive Body Conflict of Interest Management Business Risk Management Committee IT Committee Enhancement Committee Internal Audit-related Departments Department Conducting Risk Management Risk Management Department Consultation/ Reporting Human Corporate Legal Dept. / IT & Business Resources Administration Compliance Process Planning Dept. Auditing Dept. Dept. Dept. Individual Businesses Supervision/ Funding Business Human Legal & of the Group Guidance Risk Credit Market Operational System Information Event Reputational Risk Liquidity Processing Resource Compliance Categories Risk Risk Risk Security Risk Risk Risk Risk Risk Risk Risk Risk Management-related Departments Auditing First Line of Defense Second Line of Defense Third Line of Defense (1) First Line of Defense (3) Third Line of Defense Each Group business identifies and gains an understanding of The Internal Audit Department verifies the effectiveness and the risk characteristics involved in carrying out its own business, appropriateness of the group-wide risk governance system based on knowledge of the services and products in that business. and processes from an independent standpoint. Each business engages in risk taking within the established (4) Executive Committee range of risk appetite, and, when a risk materializes, promptly The Executive Committee is composed of representative implements risk control at the on-site level. executive officers and executive officers designated by the (2) Second Line of Defense President. It makes decisions on matters concerning risk manThe Risk Management Department performs overall risk agement and undertakes preliminary discussions regarding matmanagement, identifies and evaluates group-wide risks, ters to be resolved by and reported to the Board of Directors. creates a risk management process, and sets risk limits in (5) Board of Directors accordance with the group-wide risk management policy The Board of Directors is composed of all of the direcdetermined by the Board of Directors. In addition, it formutors. It decides on the Group’s management policy and lates group-wide recovery strategies, in advance, to prepare strategic goals for risk taking, formulates a risk management for cases when risks materialize. policy, etc. that reflects these strategic goals based on a solid The Risk Management Department and risk managementunderstanding of the location and nature of risks, and develrelated departments act as a restraint function for the risk ops an appropriate risk governance system and supervises taking of the first line of defense, and supervise and provide its implementation. The Board of Directors has voluntarily guidance regarding the risk governance system. established the Risk Committee and the Conflicts of Interest The Risk Management Department reports on the status of Committee, as advisory bodies, based on the business straterisk management to the Executive Committee and the Board gies and risk characteristics of the Group. of Directors. Sumitomo Mitsui Trust Holdings, Inc. 2020 Integrated Report 101 Risk Management • Risk Committee • Conflicts of Interest Committee The Risk Committee receives requests for consultation from The Conflicts of Interest Committee receives requests for the Board of Directors on matters concerning the business consultation from the Board of Directors on matters concerncircumstances surrounding the Group and the effectiveness of ing the Group’s fiduciary duties and conflict of interest manits risk management, etc., reviews their appropriateness, and agement, which are the foundation on which the Group seeks reports its findings. to become the “Best Partner” of its clients based on a fiduciary spirit, reviews their appropriateness, and reports its findings. 4. Risk Management Process In the Group, the Risk Management Department and indibased on the risk conditions. Monitoring contents are reportvidual risk management-related departments act as the second ed and submitted to the Board of Directors, the Executive line of defense, performing risk management using the followCommittee, and other bodies regularly or as needed. ing procedure. This risk management process, along with its associated systems, undergoes regular auditing by the Internal Risk predictor management for top risks, etc. Audit Department, which acts as the third line of defense. Risk appetite indicators are defined for risks resulting from (1) Risk Identification internal factors, based on the features of the Group’s business model and risk characteristics, and these management indicaThe risks faced by the Group are comprehensively identified, tors are monitored. Regarding risks resulting from external while ensuring the comprehensiveness of the Group’s operafactors, the top risks are selected, and risk predictors are tions, and the risks to be managed are identified based on the monitored. Countermeasures are implemented based on the scale and characteristics of the identified risks. Of note, risks that monitoring results for both types of risks. are particularly important are managed as material risks. The top risks at present include “the global spread of (2) Risk Evaluation COVID-19,” “falling prices for strategic shareholdings, etc.” “concentration of credit to large obligors in the credit portfoThe risks identified as requiring management undergo analylio,” and “cyber attacks.” Along with countermeasures, these sis, assessment, and measurement in a manner appropriate for risks are reported to the Board of Directors and the Executive the business scale, characteristics, and risk profiles. We periodiCommittee. cally evaluate material risks in terms of frequency of occurrence, Emerging risks at present include “climate change,” “innodegree of impact, and severity to determine whether they can vation,” and “Japan’s declining birthrate and aging population.” We are analyzing these risks and considering necessary be classified as top risks or emerging risks. The former are risks countermeasures. that have the potential to significantly affect the Group’s capacity to execute business and achieve earnings targets within one (4) Risk Control and Mitigation year, while the latter are risks that have the potential to have a If any incidents that could have a significant impact on the significant effect over the medium to long term. soundness of management occur, such as the risk amounts (3) Risk Monitoring exceeding the risk limits, or the existence of concerns that it Risk conditions are monitored with appropriate frequency, might do so, appropriate reports are presented to the Board given the conditions of the Group’s internal environment (risk of Directors, the Executive Committee, and other bodies, and profiles, allocated capital usage status, etc.) and external envithe necessary countermeasures are implemented according to ronment (economy, markets, etc.). Recommendations, guidthe severity of the risk. ance, and advice are given to each of the Group’s businesses 5. Enterprise Risk Management (1) Enterprise Risk Management System VaR*, and compare the combined value against our corporate We manage risks by comprehensively grasping the risks faced strength (capital position), thereby managing risks (integrated by the Group, which are evaluated on an individual risk category risk management). basis, and comparing and contrasting them against our corporate * VaR = Value at Risk strength (enterprise risk management). (2) Capital Allocation Operations Among the risks we manage through our enterprise risk For the purpose of the Group’s capital allocation operamanagement, we combine the risk values for risks that can tions, SuMi TRUST Holdings allocates capital to each business, be quantitatively measured using a single standard, such as including the Group companies, based on each risk category 102 Sumitomo Mitsui Trust Holdings, Inc. 2020 Integrated Report Management Foundation (credit risk, market risk, and operational risk) in consideration ed capital and risk appetite, to the Board of Directors, and others. of the external environment, risk-return performance status, (3) Stress Tests and Assessment of Capital Adequacy Level scenario analysis, and the results of assessments of capital The Risk Management Department performs three types adequacy levels. The capital allocation plan is subject to the of stress tests (hypothetical scenario stress testing, historiapproval of the Board of Directors. Capital allocation levels are cal scenario stress testing, and examination of probability of determined based on the Group’s risk appetite. occurrence) each time a capital allocation plan is formulated Each business is operated within both the allocated amount or reviewed, with the aim of ensuring capital adequacy from of risk capital and its risk appetite. The Risk Management the standpoint of depositor protection. Based on the results of Department measures the risk amount on a monthly basis, and these stress tests, it assesses the level of capital adequacy, and reports regularly on the risk conditions, compared to the allocatreports to the Board of Directors, and others. 6. Crisis Management The Group has developed systems to swiftly and appropritiative of management to respond to cyber attacks, which are ately implement emergency and crisis response measures in causing damage throughout society, through the formulation the event of natural disasters, computer system failures, outof the “Cyber Security Management Declaration.” Specifically, breaks of new infectious diseases, and the like, which are rootthe Group has established SuMiTRUST-CSIRT as an internal ed in its public mission and social responsibilities as a financial organization for gathering information, conducting analysis, institution, and strives to disseminate information regarding implementing measures concerning cyber attacks, and allocatthese systems throughout the organization. ing necessary staffing. The Group also works to continuously Specifically, we have developed BCPs (business continustrengthen human resources and to enhance the management ity plans) for continuing business in the event of a crisis, after system through collaboration with external specialized agensecuring the safety of our clients, directors, officers, employcies. In addition, we are endeavoring to strengthen our ability ees, and their families. In order to ensure the effectiveness of to respond to incidents through the creation and improvement our BCPs, we periodically conduct exercises and revise their of manuals, etc. for use in both normal times and emergencontent. In addition, we have created a response system in cies, and periodic training and drills. which, in the event of a crisis, an emergency response headIn responding to the COVID-19 pandemic, our basic stance is quarters is created, which is headed by the President. to ensure the health and safety of employees and their families, For large-scale natural disasters such as earthquake, which ensure business continuity as a key piece of social infrastructure, are envisioned as having a significant impact, we are enhancand to prevent the spread of infection in society. We are striving ing our response system through the preparation of backup to balance the maintenance of services with safety consideroffices and backup systems. ations by establishing an emergency response headquarters, We are also strengthening our security measures at the iniactivating our BCPs, and actively encouraging telework. 7. New Product and New Operation Examination System When introducing a new product or new operation, it is necProduct Examination Process (SuMi TRUST Bank) essary to develop various systems in order to continue offering Product Examination Departments in charge the product or running the operation, including making an Office of risk checks Fiduciary Duties & advance determination regarding the existence of any inherDepartments Customer Satisfaction in charge Planning and Promotion Dept., ent risks and identifying their types, evaluating and managing of product 1) Risk Management Dept., Legal Dept., such risks, and providing explanatory materials and methods management Compliance Dept. IT & Business Process Planning Dept., to clients. To that end, we have developed a new product and Planning and Coordination Dept., Financial Planning Dept., etc. new operation examination system. In the product examination process, multiple departments carry out verification from Product examination request 2) Product examination referral various angles, with an emphasis on introducing products and Product Examination Committee operations that will earn the trust of clients. We also conduct * Conflict of Interest Management 3) Enhancement Committee validation through regular monitoring after a new product or Notification of * Held jointly, as necessary to consider merchantability and examination results new operation has been introduced. the perspective of conflicts of interest Sumitomo Mitsui Trust Holdings, Inc. 2020 Integrated Report 103 Compliance 1. Basic Initiative Policy The Group has positioned compliance as one of its most creating a compliance system befitting “The Trust Bank.” important management issues necessary for the realization The Group’s stakeholders are becoming more demanding of “The Trust Bank,” its management principles and ideal every day, and their expectations are rising. Under these cirmodel, and set out “strict compliance with applicable laws cumstances, we aim to meet their expectations and win their and regulations” in the Codes of Conduct (“Value”). trust by not only complying with laws, regulations, and rules, The Compliance Rules formulated by the Board of but also by implementing better and best practices. Directors define the Group’s overall basic policy, the stanCompliance-related risks fall under the category of legal & dards that directors, officers and employees must follow, and compliance risk, which is a sub-category of operational risk. the Group’s organization structure for realizing compliance, 2. The Group Compliance Framework The Group formulates the Compliance Program, which SuMi TRUST Holdings manages the compliance framework consists of specific practice plans for implementing complifor the entire Group in order to create an appropriate frameance within the Group each fiscal year, with the approval of work in line with the characteristics of operations of each the Board of Directors, and the Board of Directors periodiGroup company. This is done by formulating the companies’ cally receives reports on the progress and evaluation of the Compliance Programs and providing guidance and oversight Compliance Program. on the progress and achievement status of these programs. 3. Initiatives to Foster Compliance Awareness The Group has created a Compliance Manual containing shared by the entire Group. In addition to the training explanation of laws and regulations that must be followed using the materials mentioned above, each Group company and actions to be taken in the event of the discovery of implements training and study sessions in accordance with compliance infractions, with the approval of the Board of the characteristics of their operations and products and the Directors, and employees across the Group are thoroughly attributes of their clients, as well as e-learning on specific informed regarding its contents. themes, to foster compliance awareness among employees. We are also improving compliance education to promote Furthermore, in order to accurately grasp the status of the the fostering of compliance awareness throughout the penetration of compliance awareness, the Group conducts entire Group. Specifically, we provide training materials for awareness surveys on compliance at major subsidiaries and e-learning and discussion-based study sessions on themes elsewhere to understand and improve any issues found out. 4. Hotline System The Group has established a compliance hotline system reporting functions have also been put in place, including through which all directors, officers and employees can by telephone (the external attorney’s office) and through report violations directly to the Compliance Department a Web-based system (in-house point of contact (SuMi and an external attorney’s office. This hotline system TRUST Bank)). enforces the rigorous control of information and protecAn accounting hotline system has also been estabtion of privacy to ensure the protection of whistleblowlished for the reporting of inappropriate accounting. ers, and strictly prohibits their adverse treatment. Simple 104 Sumitomo Mitsui Trust Holdings, Inc. 2020 Integrated Report Management Foundation 5. Prevention of Money Laundering*1 The Group has released its “Anti-Money Laundering to finance terrorism, to immediately report to the person in Compliance Policy” with the approval of the Board of charge, who notifies the relevant authorities. We also work Directors, and made clear its resoluteness in standing up to continuously to improve the system, for example by enactmoney laundering. ing special provisions in response to the Financial Services We oversee the status of the anti-money laundering Agency’s publication of its Guidelines for Anti-Money framework’s development and provide guidance on improvLaundering and Combating the Financing of Terrorism. ing the framework at each Group company through periodic In addition, we support internal training programs by risk assessment on the framework. This effort is to prevent each Group company and employees’ acquisition of speabuse of financial services within the entire Group includcialized certifications on anti-money laundering. Internal ing overseas bases. For risks that are identified, each Group training programs on anti-money laundering are provided company implements risk control measures according to periodically. risks. For instance, SuMi TRUST Bank carries out additional *1 Money Laundering is the act of hiding a source of money obtained illegally (for examconfirmation according to the transactions’ content, and it ple, through the sale of illegal drugs) by routing it through multiple bank accounts or financial instruments. Terrorists and perpetrators of remittance scams are examples verifies, using an AML system*2, whether any illicit transfers of people who may abuse the accounts of financial institutions. It is the responsibilbetween accounts have taken place, and has a system in ity of financial institutions to prevent the misuse of financial services. Such efforts are referred to as “money laundering prevention countermeasures.” place for employees, when coming across transactions sus*2 AML system: Anti-Money Laundering system pected to be related to illegally obtained money or used 6. Initiatives to Prevent Bribery The Group, with the approval of the Board of Directors, a close-knit collaboration between our overseas bases and has published its “Anti-Bribery and Corruption Compliance local legal offices to allow for swift and proper responses at Policy,” and under the supervision of the management team, overseas bases, where such risk is high. implements anti-bribery and anticorruption programs. We In addition, the Group provides directors, officers and review and strengthen the programs through regular assessemployees with regular training each fiscal year. Also providment of risks related to bribery and corruption, and endeaved is additional specialized training for employees at departor to improve the framework for prevention of bribery and ments with a high potential risk of facing bribery, and written corruption. We do this by taking such measures as fostering pledges for compliance are obtained from the employees. 7. Response to Antisocial Forces The Group has declared its resolute stance against antibefore providing new personal loans, etc. In cases in which social forces in its Codes of Conduct (“Value”) and takes the counterparty in a transaction is found to be an antisocial initiatives to prevent transactions by antisocial forces. The force after the commencement of a transaction, we take aim is to realize “The Trust Bank,” the Group’s management measures in close coordination with the police and other principles, and ideal model. Specifically, we have incorpoexternal expert organizations for the eventual cancellation rated a clause to exclude organized crime from transacof the transaction. tions in various products, services, etc., and established a In addition, we provide directors, officers and employees framework to prevent transactions with antisocial forces by with training for the prevention of transactions with antisochecking with a database operated by the National Police cial forces each fiscal year to strengthen awareness of preAgency, via the Deposit Insurance Corporation of Japan, venting such transactions. 8. Initiatives to Prevent Insider Trading Through its “Rules on Insider Information Management,” training on prevention of insider trading, and we obtain the Group strictly regulates the handling of information that written pledges for compliance with internal rules from may be obtained during the execution of working duties. directors, officers, and employees. In addition, we have established a framework for regular Sumitomo Mitsui Trust Holdings, Inc. 2020 Integrated Report 105 Compliance with International Financial Regulations 1. Compliance with Finalized Basel III Reforms Triggered by the financial crises in 2008, the Basel Committee ized approaches to the risk-weighted assets measurement on Banking Supervision (BCBS) made the agreement to impleapproach in the calculation of the capital adequacy ratio. ment new regulations, called “Basel III.” Basel III includes the “Finalized Basel III” is required to be implemented from implementation of higher capital requirements, leverage ratio 2023.* The Group will work to secure the target level through the and liquidity requirements. In Japan, Basel III has been implefuture accumulation of capital and other means, and promote mented in phased manner from the end of March 2013. appropriate profitability and portfolio management to establish Subsequently, in December 2017, an international agreea framework for introducing tighter capital requirements. ment was reached on “Finalized Basel III,” which aims to *The implementation has been postponed for one year from the original schedule to give priority to fighting the COVID-19 pandemic. constrain the use of internally modelled approaches by banks and to introduce a new capital floor based on the standardConceptual Diagram of Risk-weighted Assets Measurement Capital Floor Structure Approach for Credit Risk Floor Current New not applied Floor Exposures Standards Standards applied Standardized SA Internal add-on Equity Approach RWAs RWAs 72.5% of Model SA RWAs RWAs Internal Financial Institution Foundation Model Advanced IRB RWAs or Approach Large corporate Corporate Foundation Standardized Floor Internal Model Internal Model Small and medium-sized IRB Approach Advanced corporate or Approach(SA) (SA RWAs ×72.5%) RWAs Floor RWAs < Floor Specialized Lending Foundation RWAs (e.g.Real estate non-recourse loan) IRB Approach Standardized Approach: Supervisory risk weight according to external credit ratings • In the case where 72.5%* of SA RWAs (Floor) is larger than internal Foundation IRB Approach: Risk weight calculated based on banks’ own estimates of model RWAs, Add-on RWAs are charged. probability of default (PD) * As for the applicable multiplier of the floor, starting at 50% in 2023, it will be raised Advanced IRB Approach: Risk weight calculated based on banks’ own estimates of probby 5% each year to 72.5% in 2028. ability of default (PD) and loss given default (LGD) 2. Strengthening of Regulations on Non-Financial Risk Areas Regarding financial risks, BCBS made the agreement on to provide socially important financial services without interrupBasel III as described above, and major frameworks for various tion even under new circumstances that are different from the liquidity risk regulations and Single Counterparty Credit Limit disaster scenarios that were assumed in the past. (SCCL) are close to being determined and although minor The Group, as a trust bank entrusted with the management modifications of details are still needed, the hardest part is and administration of the assets of our clients, is committed to over. With this background, international organizations and the further strengthening and enhancing the framework of asset financial authorities of each country are focusing on tightening management and administration, while paying close attention and enhancing regulations on non-financial risk areas. Specific to these global regulatory trends. examples include: Framework for Compliance with International Financial Regulations • Conduct risk • A ML/CFT (Anti-Money Laundering and Countering the Corporate Planning Dept. Overall supervision (Global Business Management Office) Financing of Terrorism) Capital adequacy ratio/ • Cybersecurity Risk Management Dept., Financial Planning Dept. Liquidity requirements • Subcontractor (third party) management Extra-territorial application Compliance Dept. (Global Compliance Office) • Strengthening business continuity framework (operational of laws Conduct risks resilience) Global Business Planning and Coordination Dept.*, While remaining vigilant on cybersecurity and subcontractor (third Support for regulations for Global Markets Business Planning Dept.*, overseas bases Fiduciary Business Planning Dept.*, party) management, the international community has recently Asset Management Business Planning Dept. focused on “operational resilience,” which aims to maintain Risk Management Dept., Cybersecurity the critical functions of financial institutions, in light of the fight IT & Business Process Planning Dept. against the COVID-19 pandemic, which is expected to be proOverseas Office Recovery & Corporate Planning Dept. (Corporate Information longed. Financial institutions are increasingly called on to further Resolution Planning Office), Risk Management Dept. strengthen their business continuity systems to ensure their ability *SuMi TRUST Bank 106 Sumitomo Mitsui Trust Holdings, Inc. 2020 Integrated Report Management Foundation Internal Auditing 1. Basic Initiative Policy The SuMi TRUST Group believes that establishing an effisystem and the internal management system, SuMi TRUST cient and effective internal auditing system commensurate Holdings and its main Group companies have established with the size and nature of its business, the content of laws internal auditing units that are independent of departments and regulations that apply to operations, and the type of risks involved in business execution and that adequately act as a is indispensable to achieve management targets, appropriate restraint function. The internal auditing units verify the approlegal compliance, facilitating financing, client protection, and priateness and effectiveness of the business execution system risk management. and internal management system, provide comments and recTherefore, with the aim of ensuring the soundness of manommendations for correcting problems, and follow up on the agement by improving and enhancing the business execution status of improvement measures. 2. Internal Auditing Implementation System (1) SuMi TRUST Holdings In addition, the Internal Audit Department, as the depart1) Organization ment supervising the Group’s internal auditing, receives consulIn addition to establishing an Internal Audit Department tations from each Group company regarding the audit plan, and independent of departments involved in business execuconfirms its consistency with the basic policy. The Internal Audit tion under the Board of Directors, SuMi TRUST Holdings has Department carries out internal audits in collaboration with the strengthened the supervisory and restraint capabilities (govinternal auditing unit of each Group company. The role of the ernance) with regard to management and business execution Internal Audit Department also includes receiving reports of departments, by positioning the Internal Audit Department in internal audit results from Group companies, assessing and veria direct instruction and reporting relationship with the Audit fying the internal auditing system and its implementation status Committee. at each Group company, and providing guidance as necessary. 2) Functions and roles The Internal Audit Department formulates an internal audit (2) Group Companies plan, taking into account the basic policy on internal audits, Internal auditing units that are independent of departments which dictates the direction to be taken in the development involved in business execution have also been established of the SuMi TRUST Group’s internal auditing system, as well at the main Group companies including SuMi TRUST Bank, as significant group-wide risks. After receiving the consent of and conduct internal audits. Each Group company formulates the Audit Committee, the plan is approved by the Board of an internal audit plan in line with the basic policy on internal Directors. The Internal Audit Department reports the results audits set by the Company, which is approved by the Board of of the internal audit, without delay to the President and the Directors after consultation with the Company. Audit Committee, while also analyzing the internal audit results, Results of internal audits are reported without delay to the including those for Group companies, and reporting regularly to president, the Company and others, and are also reported the Board of Directors. regularly to the Board of Directors. The SuMi TRUST Group SuMi TRUST Holdings Board of Directors Audit Committee (chaired by external director) Report/Discussion Approval/Instruction Report President Executive Officers Internal Audit Department Internal audit Business Execution Departments Management/ Report/Discussion Supervision/Guidance Group Companies Sumitomo Mitsui Trust Holdings, Inc. 2020 Integrated Report 107 Client-Oriented Initiatives 1. Providing Value to Clients In an era of dramatic environmental change, the needs of lished a stringent conflict of interest management framework, both individual and corporate clients to build, manage, and which allows us to make effective use of the comprehensive review their assets and plan for succession are becoming capabilities that combine trust and banking functions, as well increasingly complex, and their needs for trustworthy financial as the various trust functions within the Group. institutions are growing. The SuMi TRUST Group aims to be In April 2020, in order to further advance client orientation the “Best Partner” providing the greatest value to individual and customer satisfaction as sources of differentiation, we inteand corporate clients by accurately understanding their needs grated our Fiduciary Duty (FD) unit (which promotes client-oriand providing total solutions that include a wide range of ented business operations) with our Customer Satisfaction (CS) highly specialized products and services as the best way to unit (which strives to improve customer satisfaction), thereby address those needs. To this end, as the only independent strengthening our efforts to improve our business quality manfinancial group specialized in trust banking in Japan, along agement capabilities. with striving to be completely client-oriented, we have estab2. Enhancement of Customer Satisfaction (1) Initiatives to Link the “Voice of Customers” to Enhanced Customer Satisfaction 1) SuMi TRUST Bank receives a large amount of opinions and CS (Customer Satisfaction) requests through its branch offices across Japan, telephone Promotion Cycle of centers, the Group’s website, and various questionnaires. 2) In SuMi TRUST Bank 2) order to realize customer satisfaction by utilizing the hundreds Analyzing client of thousands of feedback we receive each year, we use the “CS feedback Voice of Customers Portal,” which is a system to analyze client feedback. We are striving to meet our clients’ needs by making client feedback “visible,” so that we can better “recognize” such needs. 3) Furthermore, regarding opinions and requests 1) 3) received from clients, branches and the head office cooperate Considering and Collecting to investigate and analyze the causes, and identify problems. client implementing improvement Based on the results, we search for improvement measures, and feedback measures strive to provide better products and services. (2) Product Development Capabilities Supporting Total Solutions In order to leverage the flexibility and expertise of its varidevelopment department in each business, as well as the ous financial and trust functions as a financial group specialBusiness Research and Development Department, and a prodized in trust banking, and put together an extensive lineup uct development off-site meeting as its product development of unique and sophisticated products and services that are organization. The product development departments in each essential to providing total solutions, the SuMi TRUST Group business analyze the client needs that have been collected focuses on promoting group-wide initiatives that combine the in the course of business, and engage in improvement and expertise of each business and Group company, rather than development, mainly of products for immediate application, simply using their strengths and know-how. In this manner, including reviews of existing products and design of new the SuMi TRUST Group is creating a product development products. In addition, the Business Research and Development system that carries out medium-term, ongoing research activiDepartment, which was established as a dedicated unit prities on themes that would be difficult to categorize within the marily for the development of trust products, serves as the domains of individual businesses or Group companies. engine that drives product development and provides develSpecifically, SuMi TRUST Bank has established a product opment support for each business, while carrying out plan108 Sumitomo Mitsui Trust Holdings, Inc. 2020 Integrated Report Management Foundation ning, development, and promotion of mediumto long-term sustains product development. At SuMi TRUST Bank, product development projects across businesses. Furthermore, the development experience is included in the new employee product development offsite meeting has been established training curriculum, and human resource development semias a forum for discussion among executive officers and gennars on product development are held twice each year for eral managers, where regular exchanges of opinion are held product development personnel with little experience. At regarding product development, not only at a practical workthese seminars, groups engage in exhaustive discussions on ing level, but also based on management strategy from a the topic of new products to satisfy target client needs that are mediumto long-term viewpoint. assigned in advance, with the goal of enabling participants to The SuMi TRUST Group also focuses its efforts on nurturacquire an understanding of breakthrough points and probing human resources who are capable of flexible thinking that lem-solving methods in product development. (3) Technologies to Support Total Solutions As digitization progresses at a rapid pace, the SuMi TRUST can comfortably accommodate clients together with their Group regards digital reform initiatives as one of its most family members spanning multiple generations, while actively important management strategies. utilizing digital technologies such as introducing new tablet SuMi TRUST Bank introduced AI assisted automatic forecast devices. In this manner, we will transform branches from places analysis to understand the changing client needs due to the to handle procedures to spaces for consultation. advent of the age of 100-year life and make proposals that By providing total solutions through the optimal combination are more client focused and appropriate. At trust type next of consulting and digital technologies, we will continually strive generation branches, we provide consultation spaces that to provide a client experience that exceeds their expectations. 3. Initiatives Related to Fiduciary Duties (FD) (1) Practicing Fiduciary Duties The aim of the SuMi TRUST Group to be the “best partour Policies regarding the Fiduciary Duties of the Sumitomo ner” for clients is based on our client-oriented spirit. The Mitsui Trust Group (the “Policies”) in September 2016, we Group has hitherto endeavored to be completely clienthave continued to further strengthen our initiatives by revisoriented given that a fiduciary spirit is essentially ingrained ing the Policies whenever necessary. into our DNA. To this end, since we formulated and released The Group’s FD Promotion and Supervision System Organization Initiatives SuMi TRUST Board of Conflicts of Interest • Supervise conflict of interest management Holdings Directors Committee for the Group, monitor FD progress Conflicts of Interest Executive • Discuss important cases Management Committee Enhancement Committee • Guide the improvement of relevant departments FD/CS Planning and • Promote FD within the organization SuMi TRUST Promotion Dept. Department Bank in charge Compliance Dept. • Enhance conflict of interest management Fiduciary Duties • Consult with each company and incorporate Group-wide Group companies Discussion Panel discussions into each company’s FD activities Sumitomo Mitsui Trust Holdings, Inc. 2020 Integrated Report 109 Client-Oriented Initiatives We believe that the practice of fiduciary duties depends on The SuMi TRUST Group makes public indicators that allow “significant expertise” that our clients can rely on, “consulting confirmation of the status of initiatives and Key Performance practice” that offers clients optimal options according to their Indicators (KPIs) aimed at becoming our clients’ “Best individual needs, and “stringent conflict of interest managePartner,” in order to communicate the results of these initiament.” The SuMi TRUST Group has put in place an extensive tives in a simple manner. These indicators are revised each organizational structure from the management level to the fiscal year, and include the common KPIs, which are common working level, and strives constantly to enhance its initiatives indicators comparable across investment trust distributors. in this area. (2) Conflict of Interest Management With the approval of the Board of Directors, the Group Furthermore, we have established a system in which the announced the Management Policy Concerning Conflicts of Compliance Department, which is the department that conInterest (Outline), in order to protect the interests of our clients trols conflict of interest management independently of sales from undue harm caused by provision of various services by divisions, regularly verifies the effectiveness of conflict of interGroup companies and their related parties. The Group identifies est management across the Group. The results are regularly and classifies transactions that have possible conflicts of interest reported to the Board of Directors, etc., and improvement and in advance and manages such transactions appropriately. direction are carried out continuously, as needed. Conflict of Interest Management Framework* SuMi TRUST Holdings Conflicts of Interest Committee Members Inquiries Board of Directors Conflicts of Interest Committee Chairperson: Hideki Kanda Answers External Director, SuMi TRUST Bank Reporting, etc. Directions, etc. Professor, Preliminary discussions Conflicts of Interest Management Law School at Gakushuin University Executive Committee Emeritus Professor, Enhancement Committee University of Tokyo Reporting, etc. Directions, etc. Client-oriented Member: Takeshi Suzuki operations FD/CS Planning and External Director, Compliance Dept. promotion SuMi TRUST Holdings (Conflicts of interest management control department) Promotion Dept. Member: Akiko Hosokawa Reporting Directions Partner, Baker & McKenzie Member: Yutaka Nishida Director, Senior Managing Executive Officer SuMi TRUST Bank Other subsidiaries, etc. (Representative Executive Officer) SuMi TRUST Holdings * For the specific role of the Conflicts of Interest Committee, please refer to page 73. In addition, the Group has established the Conflicts of With respect to our conflict of interest management system Interest Committee in an effort to enhance the effectivefor stewardship activities, the Conflicts of Interest Committee ness of the Group’s conflict of interest management framehas established a Stewardship Services (SS) Working Group work. The majority on the Committee consists of external composed of third-party members from the external commitmembers. It serves as an advisory body to the Board of tees of the Group’s asset management companies. The aim Directors and receives verification of the appropriateness of is to strengthen information coordination and oversight functhe Group’s conflict of interest management. The summary tions on the Group-level SS activities. of agendas of the Committee has continuously been made available for public review. 110 Sumitomo Mitsui Trust Holdings, Inc. 2020 Integrated Report Management Foundation Conflict of Interest Management System for Stewardship Activities Supervision Sumitomo Mitsui Trust Asset Management Sumitomo Mitsui Trust Holdings FD Advisory Stewardship Activities Committee Advisory Committee (1) Independence from (third-party committee) (third-party committee) Board of Directors distributors Middle offices (2) Independence from • Conflict of interest management for actual asset management corporate divisions Conflicts of Interest Committee (orders, research, etc.) (supervision of FD permeation/adherence) (3) Conflict of interest • Monitoring of conflict of interest management related to exermanagement for cise of voting rights investment operations FD Discussion Panel (at each Group company) Stewardship Development Department (engagements/exercise of voting rights) Asset management departments (investment decisions) Sumitomo Mitsui Trust Bank Trustees (pensions, individually operated Entrustment Entrustment (pensions, individually designated money trusts, etc.) Supervision as trustee operated designated money trusts, etc.) Re-entrustment Discretionary investment trust managers Discretionary investment Supervision as re-entrustor (3) Status of Initiatives Aimed at Becoming Our Clients’ “Best Partner” and Key Performance Indicators (KPIs) The SuMi TRUST Group regularly makes public indicacators are revised periodically as we promote and enhance tors that allow confirmation of the status of initiatives these activities. aimed at becoming our clients’ “Best Partner.” These indiInitiatives in Connection with Financial Education and Offering a Wide Range of Products and Services that Literacy Improvement of Clients Meet the Diverse Needs of Clients Number of Seminar Sessions Held Comprehensive Offerings Drive Growth in Balances of Investment Trusts, Discretionary Investment Management Products, and Insurance 3,000 (sessions) 8 (¥trn) 2,752 2,503 2,090 6 2,000 1,484 4 1,000 2 0 0 2016 2017 2018 2019 (Fiscal Year) March 31, March 31, March 31, March 31, March 31, March 31, 2011 2013 2015 2017 2019 2020 *Number of seminar sessions held for individual clients at SuMi TRUST Bank Discretionary Investment trust Insurance We are making efforts to hold seminars, for example our “Asset To meet the diverse needs of our clients, SuMi TRUST Bank offers a Management Seminar” and “Inheritance Strategies Seminar,” as wide range of high-quality products and services, including investment opportunities to offer clients useful, specialized knowledge in an easy trusts, discretionary investment management products, and insurance to understand manner. products, which continue to be highly popular with clients. Sumitomo Mitsui Trust Holdings, Inc. 2020 Integrated Report 111 Client-Oriented Initiatives Improving Investment Returns for Clients Enhancing Asset Management Spread of Clients with Investment Trust Gains/losses, Number of Companies and Number of Including Realized Profit and Loss Cases Where Corporate Action was Taken 45 (%) 300 (Companies or Actions) 297 42 41 37 37 33 30 200 191 201 28 141 121 15 15 15 16 100 99 11 77 64 5 4 35 38 3 3 2 2 2 1 0 0 0 0 0 0 1 0 < (50%) (50%) to (30%) to (10%) to 0% to +10% to +30% to +50% < June 30, June 30, June 30, June 30, June 30, < (30%) < (10%) < 0% < +10% < +30% < +50% 2015 2016 2017 2018 2019 March 31, 2018 March 31, 2019 March 31, 2020 Cumulative number of companies Cumulative number of actions While investment gains/losses fluctuate depending on market trends As a responsible institutional investor, Sumitomo Mitsui Trust Asset and other factors, we make every effort to improve returns and realized Management pursues stewardship activities such as an engagement profits/losses for our clients. To this end, when proposing investment activity (“purposeful dialogue” with investee companies, conducted to products to our clients, SuMi TRUST Bank emphasizes the importance encourage improvement of corporate value and the sustained growth of carefully following up on their intentions in light of major life events of the investee company) and the exercise of voting rights aimed at and changes in the market environment. In this way, we strive to mainmediumto long-term growth in corporate value. Through these activities, tain an ongoing dialogue with our clients. The spread of client gains/ we are working to increase our clients’ mediumto long-term investment losses on March 31, 2020 was negatively impacted by the decline in returns. The number of corporate actions has been rising and now totals stock prices associated with the COVID-19 pandemic. However, the 297, indicating that engagement activities by Sumitomo Mitsui Trust Asset investment management climate improved with the subsequent recovManagement are being accepted by investee companies. ery of the market, and as of May 31, 2020, the percentage of clients with investment trust gains had risen to 57%. R&I Customer-oriented Investment Trust Sales Company Rating SuMi TRUST Bank has earned an R&I Customer-oriented Investment Trust Sales Company Rating of “S” for two consecutive years. The rating is based on R&I’s neutral third-party evaluation of banks, securities companies, and other financial enterprises engaged in the sale of investment trusts. The rating assesses their “customer-oriented business operations” and their policies and initiatives in this area. The SuMi TRUST Group will continue to pursue client-oriented initiatives and promote their adherence as we strive to be a “Best Partner” whom our clients entrust with their business for many years to come. *The “R&I Customer-oriented Investment Trust Sales Company Rating” (“the rating”) is not a statement of fact. Rather, it represents R&I’s opinions regarding the “customer-oriented business operation” initiatives of companies engaged in the trust investment sales business. Though R&I uses information that it deems to be reliable when carrying out the rating, it does not independently verify the accuracy of this information. Furthermore, R&I, etc. does not guarantee the accuracy or integrity of this information, nor does it endorse the purchase, sale or holding of any specific product nor guarantee the future performance of any such product. All intellectual property rights (copyrights, etc.) and any other rights pertaining to the rating belong to R&I, and any reproduction or republication without permission is prohibited. 4. Initiatives for Management of Client Protection, Etc. (1) Basic Initiative Policy The Group regards client protection as one of its most supervisory departments according to functions. The conimportant management issues. SuMi TRUST Holdings has trol departments oversee client protection management as established a basic policy in its Client Protection Management a whole, through the preparation of internal company rules Rule designed to enhance the Group’s client protection and and regular reporting to the Board of Directors and others. convenience, to enable the Group companies to develop Supervisory departments develop frameworks for each funcappropriate client protection management systems in accortion, and ensure appropriateness and sufficiency of each funcdance with the characteristics of their own operations. Based tion through guidance for related departments, and training on the basic policy, each Group company has established the expansion, and improvement. control departments for client protection management and 112 Sumitomo Mitsui Trust Holdings, Inc. 2020 Integrated Report Management Foundation Client Protection Management Framework Sumitomo Mitsui Trust Holdings Supervisory Board of Directors Internal Audit Department Body Risk Committee Conflicts of Interest Committee Executive Committee Executive Business Risk Management Conflicts of Interest Management Head of Compliance Body Committee Enhancement Committee Compliance Department Major Subsidiaries (Sumitomo Mitsui Trust Bank) Major Subsidiaries (Sumitomo Mitsui Trust Asset Management) Supervisory/ Board of Directors Board of Directors Executive Compliance Committee Body Executive Committee Executive Committee Conflicts of Interest Management Internal Audit Department Internal Audit Department Other Group Companies Enhancement Committee Head of Compliance Head of Compliance Compliance Department Compliance Department Control Departments Compliance IT & Business Process FD/CS Planning and Marketing and Risk Management Compliance Department Planning Department Promotion Dept. Planning Department Department Department Ensuring Ensuring Client Client Clients Receive Managing Outsourcing Client Support Clients Receive Outsourcing Managing Client Conflicts of Information Information Conflicts of Support Adequate Management Management Adequate Management Interest Management Management Interest Management Explanations Explanations (2) Ensuring Clients Receive Adequate Explanations When providing financial products and services, the SuMi Fiduciary Duties of the Sumitomo Mitsui Trust Group. TRUST Group provides appropriate and sufficient explanaIn particular, we monitor whether appropriate explanations tions and easy-to-understand information so that our clients are provided to our clients to ensure their understanding in understand and are assured about the products and services. transactions involving financial products that may pose risk, Specifically, we have created a client protection management including investment trusts and life insurance. We revise our framework, such as thoroughly enforcing the suitability rule,* cresolicitation rules, as necessary, to ensure that solicitation and ating a client explanation manual that stipulates appropriate prosales activities for financial products are conducted approprivision of information to clients, etc. and expanding and improving ately from the perspective of the clients. training, based on the solicitation policy regarding provision of *Rules that prohibit inappropriate solicitation in view of clients’ knowledge, experience, financial products and services and the Policies regarding the financial position, and purpose of transactions. (3) Client Information Management The Group has established the Sumitomo Mitsui Trust laws and regulations, so as to ensure the appropriate use of Group Privacy Policy to securely protect the personal informasuch information. tion of its clients for establishing a framework for appropriately The SuMi TRUST Group requires all employees to submit a managing client information. When using client information written affirmation of their duty of confidentiality, so that they jointly within the Group, each company complies with laws on clearly recognize the duty they have to keep important inforpersonal information protection, guidelines on personal information, including personal data they come across while workmation protection in the financial industry, and other related ing, confidential. Sumitomo Mitsui Trust Holdings, Inc. 2020 Integrated Report 113 Communication with Shareholders and Investors 1. Basic Philosophy SuMi TRUST Holdings aims for highly transparent corporate endeavors to give our shareholders and investors a deeper management by striving for timely and appropriate disclosure understanding of SuMi TRUST Holdings’ performance, busiof corporate information, as well as through proactive IR activiness conditions, business strategies, etc., directly by actively ties and constructive dialogue with shareholders and invesholding information meetings, in addition to disclosing corpotors in Japan and overseas. Specifically, our top management rate information in a timely, fair, and accurate manner. 2. Activities Carried Out (1) Activities for Individual Investors holding one-on-one investor meetings in Japan and overseas. We strive to provide information that will allow individual In June 2019, we hosted a guided tour and information shareholders and investors to better understand the Group meeting at the Nihonbashi Business Department located in through measures such as organizing information meetthe historic Mitsui Main Building, which has been designated ings, setting up a dedicated website for individual investors, an important cultural property of Japan. In September of and distributing a newsletter for shareholders (“The Trust the same year we held SuMi TRUST IR Day under the theme Newsletter– Business Report”). At an information meeting held of environmental, social and governance (ESG) initiatives. in December 2019, we communicated the attractiveness of the Discussions focused on the relationship between business and SuMi TRUST Group to investors in an easy-to-understand mansustainability and how the Bank, as a financial group specialner, through a dialogue with Mr. Shunji Nishimura, an announcized in trust banking, contributes to the realization of a sustainer with CBC Television Co., Ltd. able society through its businesses. In response the COVID-19 pandemic, which has made domestic and overseas travel difficult, we are nevertheless continuing to dialogue with investors by actively utilizing conference calls, video conferencing, and similar means. SuMi TRUST IR Day For details, please see our website (Japanese only). IR Activities Carried Out in FY2019 https://www.smth.jp/investors/individual_meeting/index.html Investor meetings on financial results for analysts 2 times and institutional investors (2) Activities for Institutional Investors Overseas IR events 8 times Investor meetings on financial results aimed mainly at analysts and institutional investors are held twice a year, for the One-on-one meetings with Number of companies: 267 institutional investors in full-year and interim results. We also conduct briefings on our (including 134 overseas investors) Japan and overseas management strategy and financial position, etc. by participatInformation meetings for 10 times ing in conferences organized by securities companies and by individual investors (Number of participants: 1,119) 3. General Meeting of Shareholders In addition to promptly sending out the convocation notice tion of the convocation notice on our website at the same for the General Meeting of Shareholders held in June of each time as the Japanese version, before it is sent out, in an effort year, we post the notice on stock exchange websites and our to increase the convenience of overseas investors. Notices own website one week before it is sent out. We are also strivof resolutions and voting results are posted on our website ing to improve the voting environment by making it possible immediately after the conclusion of the General Meeting of to exercise voting rights online or by cell phone (including Shareholders, along with video clips of the meeting for sharesmartphones), and by participating in a platform for the exerholders who were unable to attend. cise of voting rights. Furthermore, we post an English transla114 Sumitomo Mitsui Trust Holdings, Inc. 2020 Integrated Report Management Foundation Initiatives to Facilitate Financing • Dealing with Facilitation of Financing deposits, foreign exchange, and derivatives to Japanese client companies who are expanding overseas. The SuMi TRUST Group considers the facilitation of financing to In addition to developing our own offices, we are making efforts small and medium-sized enterprises (SMEs) and individuals seeking to address the growing need for financial services denominated in mortgage loans as one of its most important social missions. local currencies through partnerships with leading banks in Asian SuMi TRUST Bank took steps to further enhance its financial intercountries. In Vietnam, we are working to strengthen financial servicmediary function and established a basic policy on the facilitation of es such as sales finance for Japanese companies that are expanding financing. This was to ensure prompt and appropriate responses to into the market through the Bank for Investment and Development requests from SMEs and mortgage loan clients for various consultaof Vietnam (hereinafter “BIDV”), with which SuMi TRUST Bank has a tions, restructuring of loan repayment conditions, etc. partnership, as well as our leasing joint venture company with BIDV The bank facilitates financing operations through a system at branch (BIDV-SuMi TRUST Leasing Company, Ltd.). offices to provide prompt and appropriate responses to clients’ consultations about, or requests for, the restructuring of loan repayment 2) Initiatives related to support for business succession conditions and other matters and a system at the head office to fully SuMi TRUST Bank provides detailed proposals and prompt inforgrasp the branch office support activities. The bank also responds to mation to meet the diverse asset inheritance and business succesclients’ requests for consultation and complaints through a dedicated sion needs of both its corporate and individual clients. Tailor-made telephone number as well as at branch offices. services for the needs of company-owner and wealthy clients are The Act concerning Temporary Measures to Facilitate Financing for provided in collaboration with an affiliate company, Sumitomo Mitsui SMEs, etc. (SME Finance Facilitation Act) expired on March 31, 2013. Trust Wealth Partners, and various specialists (lawyers, tax accounEven so, the SuMi TRUST Group continues to provide appropriate tants, etc.). and proactive financial intermediary services to facilitate the business Financial consultants have been assigned to branches nationwide activities of SMEs and to provide mortgage loan clients with financial as immediate counseling service counter so that company-owner security. Also, when there are consultations about, or requests for, clients may consult on any inheritance or business succession conthe restructuring of loan repayment conditions, etc. from clients who cerns or issues they may have. Our financial consultants draw on the have been directly or indirectly affected by recent natural disasters expertise they have accumulated through a rich, wide-ranging set (including the Great East Japan Earthquake, the 2016 Kumamoto of experiences to consult with clients on matters concerning inheriEarthquake, the 2018 Osaka Earthquake, the 2018 Hokkaido Eastern tance, asset inheritance and business succession as well as asset Iburi Earthquake, the 2018 heavy rains in western Japan, and the management and administration. Typhoon No. 15 and No. 19 in 2019) or the COVID-19 pandemic, SuMi Furthermore, we cooperate with our tax accountant corporate TRUST Group endeavors to respond in a flexible and appropriate manpartner to hold seminars for business owners on the inheritance and ner, taking into account each client’s circumstances. In April 2020 we business succession tax system and business succession measures established a support framework in response to the COVID-19 panthat make use of trusts. These events serve as opportunities to make demic totaling 100 billion yen to meet the financing needs of clients SuMi TRUST Bank’s consulting function more broadly known among affected by the pandemic. people who have never had dealings with a trust bank. In addition, SuMi TRUST Bank has a system under which it respects Moreover, in August 2018, for the first time at a specialized trust and abides by the “Guidelines for Management Guarantee” and bank, the Bank was nationally recognized as a Support agency for “Guidelines for Management Guarantee (Special Provisions)” (effective business innovation, providing specialized support, such as support as of April 2020), and discloses the utilization status of the guidelines on tax matters, finance and financial affairs, for small and medium(including the Special Provisions) on its website. The Bank has also sized enterprises. reorganized its system for receiving inquiries related to the “Guidelines 3) Initiatives related to “Densai” of Workout for Restructuring Debt for Victims of Natural Disaster,” (electronically recorded monetary claims) which was adopted in April 2016, and appropriately responds to client’s In order to facilitate fundraising for SMEs, SuMi TRUST Bank has requests for consultation. offered “Densai Services” since February 2012. The service is based on the Zengin Electronic Monetary Claims Recording Network, in • Status of Initiatives to Improve SME Business which financial institutions nationwide are members. We also proOperations and to Revitalize Regions vide “Densai lump-sum factoring services.” (1) Policy on Management Support Measures for SMEs Due to the impact of the COVID-19 pandemic, we have been SuMi TRUST Bank assists SMEs with efforts to improve and revitalize asked by the Zengin Electronic Monetary Claims Recording their business operations by considering their conditions and providing Network, “densai.net Co., Ltd.,” to endeavor to apply the same business consultations, management guidance and support for formukinds of financial measures (e.g., deferment of insolvency proceedlating business reconstruction strategies, and other support services. ings) that are applicable under the Disaster Relief Act. We will endeavor to respond to our clients’ consultation about the payment (2) Framework of Management Support for SMEs of monetary claims already issued, etc. in a flexible and appropriate In order to carry out management support for SMEs, SuMi TRUST manner, taking into account each client’s circumstances. Bank has established “Financing Facilitation Promotion Offices” in (3) Status of Management Support Initiatives for SMEs and of the Wholesale Business Planning Department and in the Personal Regional Revitalization Initiatives Loan Business Promotion Department, to prepare a framework to deal appropriately and satisfactorily with various consultations and requests SuMi TRUST Bank has branches throughout the country. Although from clients. it is not engaged in initiatives for the revitalization of specific regions, In terms of specific measures related to management support for it carries out initiatives focused on support to improve the business SMEs, branch offices and the head office are engaged in efforts such operations of clients at each branch according to their individual ciras support for formulating business reconstruction plans tailored to cumstances and business dealings. individual circumstances, and assistance aimed at making progress with business reconstruction plans, taking into account the industry condiExamples of Specific Initiatives tions and the business dealings of individual SMEs. Furthermore, SuMi • Introduced prospective buyers of idle real estate (buildings for TRUST Bank prepares to support clients in overseas expansion and busirent and other properties) of clients and brokered the sale of ness succession as well as in electronically recorded monetary claims. such assets. Contributed to reducing interest-bearing debt of 1) Initiatives related to support for overseas expansion the clients. SuMi TRUST Bank has the five-branch one-subsidiary system • Carried out sales mediation services (real estate surveys) for that includes New York, London, Singapore, Hong Kong, Shanghai clients to other clients, and contributed to increasing their sales. and Thailand. These branches offer financial services such as loans, Sumitomo Mitsui Trust Holdings, Inc. 2020 Integrated Report 115 Corporate Information Financial Review Terms with an asterisk are explained in “Glossary” on page 117. In the consolidated financial results for fiscal year 2019, net business profit before credit costs increased by ¥6.7 billion year on year to ¥289.0 billion, basically in line with our forecasts. The rise was mainly due to an increase in effective interest related earnings, an expansion of non-interest revenues in corporate-related business, and an increase in market-related revenues in SuMi TRUST Bank. In the meantime, net income attributable to owners of the parent decreased by ¥10.8 billion year on year to ¥163.0 billion, due mainly to a special loan loss provision of approximately ¥25 billion recorded in preparation for future total credit costs in light of the impact of the COVID-19 pandemic. Overview of the Financial Results in FY2019 <Consolidated> SuMi TRUST Holdings (Consolidated) Billions of Yen (Unless specified otherwise) FY2019 (A) FY2018 (B) Change (A)–(B) Rate of change Net Business Profit before Credit Costs* 289.0 282.2 6.7 2.4% Ordinary Profit 257.6 256.4 1.2 0.5% Net Income Attributable to Owners of the Parent 163.0 173.8 (10.8) (6.2%) Total Credit Costs* (43.8) (2.9) (40.8) — Return on shareholders’ equity* 7.12% 7.95% (0.83%) — Return on equity* 6.25% 6.58% (0.33%) — Net Income per Common Shares (EPS) (Yen) 434 458 (24) (5.4%) Net Assets per Common Shares (BPS) (Yen) 6,822.48 7,008.67 (186) (2.7%) * [Net Income Attributable to Owners of the Parent / (FY-start total shareholders’ equity (equity) + FY-end total shareholders’ equity (equity)) / 2] × 100 <Non-consolidated> SuMi TRUST Bank (Non-consolidated) Billions of Yen (Unless specified otherwise) FY2019 (A) FY2018 (B) Change (A)–(B) Rate of change Net Business Profit before Credit Costs* 206.8 231.4 (24.6) (10.7%) Net Interest Income and Related Profit* 134.1 172.7 (38.5) (22.3%) Net Fees and Commissions and Related Profit* 174.3 186.3 (12.0) (6.5%) Net Trading Profit 102.1 27.9 74.2 265.9% Net Other Operating Profit 42.5 80.3 (37.7) (47.0%) General and Administrative Expenses (246.4) (235.8) (10.5) 4.5% Total Credit Costs* (34.7) 1.9 (36.7) — Net Non-recurring Profit, etc. 4.4 (24.3) 28.7 — Ordinary Profit 176.4 209.0 (32.6) (15.6%) Extraordinary Profit 1.0 (4.2) 5.3 — Net Income 124.7 148.6 (23.9) (16.1%) (Note) Amounts less than ¥100 million are rounded down. <Dividends> FY2019 (A) FY2018 (B) Change (A)–(B) Dividend per Share on Common Share (Yen) 150.00 140.00 10.00 116 Sumitomo Mitsui Trust Holdings, Inc. 2020 Integrated Report Status of Profit and Loss Net Business Profit before Credit Costs* Net Interest Income and Related Profit* 400.0 (Billions of Yen) 300.0 (Billions of Yen) 300.0 282.2 289.0 208.2 270.5 200.0 231.4 176.5 172.7 169.6 206.8 158.6 200.0 189.7 134.1 100.0 100.0 0 0 2017 2018 2019 (Fiscal Year) 2017 2018 2019 (Fiscal Year) Non-consolidated Consolidated Non-consolidated Consolidated Despite a decline in net fees and commissions and related profit, Nominal net interest income and related profit decreased by ¥10.9 there was an increase in effective interest related earnings, as well as billion compared to the previous fiscal year. On the other hand, profits non-interest earnings in corporate-related business, bringing the profit increased in the international business divisions including profit attribto ¥289 billion, increased by ¥6.7 billion from the previous fiscal year. utable to deployment of foreign currency surplus funds, thereby securing an effective increase in net interest income on the whole. Net Fees and Commissions and Related Profit* Net Income Attributable to Owners of the Parent 500.0 (Billions of Yen) 200.0 (Billions of Yen) 173.8 405.4 413.2 405.8 163.0 400.0 153.9 148.6 150.0 117.9 124.7 300.0 100.0 200.0 190.2 186.3 174.3 50.0 100.0 0 0 2017 2018 2019 (Fiscal Year) 2017 2018 2019 (Fiscal Year) Non-consolidated Consolidated Non-consolidated Consolidated Real estate brokerage fees (including those from subsidiary) Although there was a rise in net business profit before credit costs, secured gains, but declines in revenue related to investment managewe are making adjustments to alleviate future financial burdens, includment consulting services and revenue from asset management and ing impairment of goodwill at subsidiaries and a special loan loss proviadministration resulted in a decrease of ¥7.3 billion from the previous sion based on the impact of the COVID-19 pandemic. This resulted in fiscal year to ¥405.8 billion. a decline of ¥10.8 billion from the previous fiscal year to ¥163.0 billion. Glossary Net Business Profit before Credit Costs Substantial profit of a bank’s core businesses, calculated by eliminating the effects of non-recurring factors, such as total credit costs and net gains on stock from ordinary profit. Total Credit Costs Costs incurred in posting allowances for losses on loans and writing off loans. Net Interest Income and Related Profit Net revenues after subtracting interest paid on deposits, etc., from revenues on loans and securities investment. Net Fees and Commissions and Related Profit Net profit of the sales fees of investment trusts, real estate brokerage fees, and trust fees for assets under management, etc. Sumitomo Mitsui Trust Holdings, Inc. 2020 Integrated Report 117 Corporate Information Financial Status Terms with an asterisk are explained in “Glossary” on page 118. Loans and Deposits (Non-consolidated) Problem Assets Based on the Financial Reconstruction Act* (Non-consolidated) 40 (Trillions of Yen) 150.0 (Billions of Yen) (%) 3.0 37.0 34.4 35.1 30 28.2 29.4 29.9 100.0 2.0 84.2 86.8 20 56.7 50.0 1.0 10 0.2 0.3 0.3 0 0 0 March 31, 2018 March 31, 2019 March 31, 2020 March 31, 2018 March 31, 2019 March 31, 2020 Loans Deposits, Trust Principal Problem Assets Based on the Financial Reconstruction Act (Left) Ratio to Total Loan Balance (Right) Loans increased while deposits decreased Ratio to total loan balance remains low at 0.3% Loans and bills discounted increased by ¥0.5 trillion from the end of A decline in doubtful loans and an increase in substandard loans left the previous fiscal year to ¥29.9 trillion, due to rises in both mortgage the total balance of problem assets based on the Financial Reconstruction loans and loans to corporations. Deposits, etc. decreased by ¥1.8 trilAct roughly flat at ¥86.8 billion compared to the end of the previous fiscal lion to ¥35.1 trillion, mainly due to a decline in liquid deposits. year, with the ratio to total loan balance remaining contained at a low level *Deposits, etc. include the principal guaranteed trust account (loan trusts and jointly of 0.3%. As for the ratio of problem assets covered by collateral and the operated money trusts), but exclude negotiable certificates of deposit. allowance for loan losses, the ratio was 94% for doubtful loans and 41% for substandard loans, both of which are deemed sufficiently high. Capital Adequacy Ratio, etc.* (Consolidated) Glossary 20 (%) Problem Assets Based on the Financial Reconstruction Act Assets for which disclosure is required by the Financial 16.77 17.23 Reconstruction Act, and which are classified as follows. These are generally used in referring to “non-performing loans.” 15 14.18 14.47 12.18 12.62 Minimum Bankrupt and Practically Bankrupt Capital Assets to debtors who are legally bankrupt (due to bankruptcy, Minimum Requirements 10 Capital corporate reorganization or rehabilitation proceedings, etc.), or Minimum Capital Requirements 11.00 virtually bankrupt. Requirements 9.00 5 7.50 Doubtful Assets to debtors who are not legally bankrupt, but whose financial conditions and business results have deteriorated, with 0 a high likelihood that the lender will not be able to collect the principal or receive interest in accordance with the contract. Common Equity Tier 1 Capital Ratio Total Capital Ratio Tier 1 Capital Ratio Substandard March 31, 2019 March 31, 2020 Assets more than three months past due and assets whose terms have been modified to support debtors through such means as Levels remain well above regulatory standards interest reductions or exemptions. The Common Equity Tier 1 capital ratio increased by 0.44 percentage points from the end of the previous fiscal year to 12.62%. The rise was due to Capital Adequacy Ratio, etc. Basel III defines the composition of capital in three steps: Common an increase in Common Equity Tier 1 capital resulting from the accumulation Equity Tier 1 capital, Tier 1 capital and total capital. The ratios of net income attributable to owners of the parent, along with a decrease in obtained by dividing them by risk-weighted assets refer to Common risk-weighted assets. Total capital ratio also rose by 0.46 percentage points Equity Tier 1 ratio, Tier 1 ratio and total capital ratio, respectively. from the end of the previous fiscal year to 17.23%. The Common Equity Tier 1 capital ratio as well as the total capital ratio remain well above the correCommon Equity Tier 1 Capital sponding regulatorily required levels of 7.5% and 11.00%, respectively. Common Equity Tier 1 capital is composed of core capital, consisting primarily of the capital stock, capital surplus and retained earnings. Basel III: Tier 1 Capital Basel III is a new capital regulatory standard that was announced by the Basel Committee Tier 1 capital is composed of Common Equity Tier 1 plus on Banking Supervision in December 2010. Basel III, intended to enhance the soundness Additional Tier 1 capital, which includes preferred shares, etc. of internationally active banks, has been adopted in Japan as of the end of March 2013 in a phased manner. Basel III newly defines “Common Equity Tier 1,” which is comprised of Total Capital capital components that can be used to cover unexpected losses and do not need to be Total capital is the total amount of capital, composed of Tier 1 repaid, such as common equity and retained earnings, and requires that the ratio of those capital and Tier 2 capital, which includes debt capital such as capital components to risk-weighted assets, such as investments and loans, (“Common Equity Tier 1 ratio”) must be kept higher than a prescribed level. subordinated debt and subordinated loans. 118 Sumitomo Mitsui Trust Holdings, Inc. 2020 Integrated Report Corporate Information (as of March 31, 2020) Registered Trade Name: Sumitomo Mitsui Trust Holdings, Inc. Headquarters Location: 1-4-1 Marunouchi, Chiyoda-ku, Tokyo 100-8233, Japan Date of Establishment: February 1, 2002 (Change of trade name: April 1, 2011) Main Business: With trust banking at its core, Sumitomo Mitsui Trust Holdings, Inc., will focus on the management of business operations, as the holding company of the Sumitomo Mitsui Trust Group, and sets the following (1) (8) as its key functions: (1) S  upervising management strategies (including the allocation of management resources) (2) Supervising financial management (3) Supervising human resource management (4) Controlling budget and expenses (5) Supervising IT management (6) Supervising risk management (7) Supervising compliance management (8) Managing internal auditing Capital: 261,608,725,000 Yen Stock Exchange Listings: Tokyo, Nagoya Stock Exchanges Tokyo (1st Section), Nagoya (1st Section) Securities Code: 8309 Rating Information (as of June 30, 2020) Long-term Outlook Short-term JCR AAStable — Sumitomo Mitsui Trust Holdings R&I A Stable — S&P A Stable A-1 Moody’s A1 Stable P-1 Sumitomo Mitsui Trust Bank Fitch AStable F1 JCR AAStable — R&I A+ Stable a-1 Website Please go to our website for specifics on our Group. About The Sumitomo Mitsui Trust Group IR Library Sustainability https://www.smth.jp/en/about_us/index.html https://www.smth.jp/en/ir/index.html in The Sumitomo Mitsui Trust Group https://www.smth.jp/en/csr/index.html Contact: IR Department Telephone: +81 (3) 3286-8354 Facsimile: +81 (3) 3286-4654 e-mail: ir@smth.jp URL: https://www.smth.jp/en/ir/index.html Sumitomo Mitsui Trust Holdings, Inc. 2020 Integrated Report 119 This integrated report was printed in Japan on FSC paper with vegetable oil ink.
