Abac Capital Sustainability Report 2019 Sustainable Value March 2020 Table of contents Table of Contents Our Purpose.....................................................................................................................................03 Letter from CEO...............................................................................................................................................04 Creating sustainable value in our businesses and communities...................................................06 About Abac Capital..........................................................................................................................07 Abac at a glance...............................................................................................................................................08 Overview.............................................................................................................................................................09 Portfolio timeline.............................................................................................................................................11 Our ethical compass.......................................................................................................................................12 Our Sustainable Value strategy....................................................................................................13 Strategic objectives........................................................................................................................................14 Investment process........................................................................................................................................15 Foundations & Commitments....................................................................................................................16 Sustainability at Abac.....................................................................................................................23 Tranformational Value ...................................................................................................................25 Energy & Resource management.............................................................................................................26 Waste & Materials..........................................................................................................................................30 Environmental compliance..........................................................................................................................34 Sustainable Returns.......................................................................................................................38 Building Purpose..............................................................................................................................................39 Governance........................................................................................................................................................42 How we monitor performance...................................................................................................................45 Community Impact .........................................................................................................................47 Decent employment.......................................................................................................................................48 Gender & Minorities equality......................................................................................................................54 Citizenship initiatives.....................................................................................................................................60 Parting thoughts.............................................................................................................................64 Abac Capital Sustainability Report 2019 2 Our Purpose “ To create sustainable value in our businesses “ and communities Our Purpose Letter from CEO Oriol Pinya, CEO of Abac Capital In 2019, we pledged to create sustainable value in our businesses and communities as the guiding purpose of our corporate activity. During the year, we stepped up our commitment to further our positive impact, increase transparency and advance the 2030 Agenda for Sustainable Development, supporting the U.N. Global Compact Initiative as Signatory Participants and aligning our strategy with the Sustainable Development Goals. Our sustainable value strategy Striving to abide by our corporate purpose led us into an intense period of reflection to articulate how this materialised in practice. We finally identified transformational value, sustainable returns and community impact as the three strategic objectives we want to collectively achieve as a team. The definition of our strategic objectives illustrates our aim to deliver attractive returns to our investors while putting their capital to work into deals that can have a positive impact in the communities. We are set to transform the Fund’s portfolio companies into purposeful and international organisations that have efficient and sustainable operations, digitalised processes and outstanding management teams. Aligning our business with our sustainability efforts During the year, we helped our portfolio companies align their sustainability efforts with their core business and corporate strategies, using SDGs as lenses to identify their most pressing topics. We also witnessed how our effort to align the sustainability initiatives of portfolio companies with broader global challenges started to materialise. By the end of 2019, more than 60% of the portfolio had endorsed the U.N. Global Compact Initiative as Signatory Participants. Abac’s Purpose in the global context Our commitment to sustainable value creation goes hand in hand with our ambition to drive local impact with our activity and responds to the urgency of aligning organisations’ strategies with the world’s most pressing challenges. As we and the Fund continue to grow, we acknowledge that so does our responsibility. We have an opportunity to excel as sustainable investors and to contribute to the communities where we operate. Abac Capital Sustainability Report 2019 4 Our Purpose Letter from CEO Our partnerships and public recognitions In 2019, we also saw our efforts recognised by external organisations on multiple occasions, signalling we are on the right path in the implementation of our sustainability framework and encouraging us to continue working towards sustainable value creation. In our U.N. Principles of Responsible Investment (UNPRI) score for 2019, we improved in multiple categories and revalidated our A level performance for the fourth consecutive year, achieving an A+ in the Private Equity module. Together with the Fund’s portfolio companies, we continued to strengthen our partnerships with public and private organisations. We collaborated with the Spanish Venture Capital and Private Equity Association (ASCRI) in the elaboration of a Responsible Investment Guide, PronoKal’s Equality Plan was highlighted as a best practice by the U.N. Global Compact in October 2019, and Figueras Group received an award from the local city council for its contribution to youth employment. New decade, new responsibilities Since our inception in 2014, we have achieved remarkable progress in the sustainability front. We start a new decade with the energy to continue persevering in the goals we set for ourselves. Herein, we provide a compilation of our progress showcasing our efforts to improve our businesses and communities. We could not wrap up the year without thanking Abac’s team and the Sustainability Champions at the portfolio companies for putting this report together and contributing to create Sustainable Value year after year. Oriol Pinya Abac Capital Sustainability Report 2019 5 Our Purpose Creating sustainable value in our businesses and communities Creating sustainable value in our businesses and communities Our Purpose At Abac Capital, we acknowledge that our investment decisions impact the life of the Fund’s portfolio companies, their employees and communities. Thus, since inception, Sustainability and a strong culture of citizenship underpin the way we conduct business. Our purpose is “to create sustainable value in our businesses and communities”. The Abac Funds aspire to achieve positive externalities, creating better sustainable companies that will outlast Abac’s ownership, deliver sustainable returns, and positively impact their surrounding communities. It is our understanding that sustainability is a true driver of not only social and environmental impact but also financial performance and long-term value creation. Our purpose is articulated in three strategic objectives that constitute the core of our Sustainable Value strategy: • Providing portfolio companies with transformational value • Delivering sustainable returns to our investors • Creating impact in the communities Transformational Value Sustainable Returns Community Impact Long-term value creation in our Delivering sustainable returns to Positive impact for our portfolio companies through: our investors through: stakeholders and surronding communities: • Hands-on portfolio • Value creation strategy for management the long term • Value creation in the community • Operational transformation • Putting LPs capital to work for strategy in a sustainable good • Investors’ capital making a manner difference People Purpose-led organisations Citizenship initiatives Optimisation of operations Governance Decent employment Digitalisation Reporting Gender & minorities equality International expansion Abac Capital Sustainability Report 2019 6 About Abac Capital About Abac Capital Abac at a glance About Abac €350m Assets Under Management 24 Investors 15 9 60% 30% 10% Institutional High-Net-Worth UE US Australia Investors Individuals (HNWI) 21 43% Abac women team in our members workforce Women Men About our portfolio companies 8 3,389 €680m portfolio employees combined companies revenue1 1 December 2019 Abac Capital Sustainability Report 2019 8 About Abac Capital Overview Javier Rigau, Federico Conchillo, Borja Martínez de la Rosa and Oriol Pinya, Partners of Abac Capital History Abac Capital is an independent Private Equity professional relationships, deep industry advisor based in Barcelona. Originally founded in knowledge and financial acumen. We align our 2014 by Javier Rigau, Borja Martínez de la Rosa interests with those of the Fund’s investors by and Oriol Pinya, the firm advises Abac Solutions investing significant amounts of our own capital Manager S.à r.l. on investments across the capital alongside other Limited Partners. structure of Spanish businesses that require transformational capital. We think long-term and take the business seriously and responsibly. Consequently, we Today, the four partners of Abac Capital bring put our hearts, heads and pockets behind the over 75 years of investment experience to the businesses we back and share our successes partnership in a myriad of industries, countries, with the other stakeholders. stages of development and deal structures. Collectively, the partners have advised, managed Our Approach and exited over €3.7 billion in equity instruments The Fund has the mission to invest profitably in over 40 companies. in solid Spanish medium-sized companies that Our role require long-term transformational capital solutions. We are thesis driven and we focus Abac Capital is the exclusive advisor of Abac mainly on the industries we know well and where Solutions Manager S.à.r.l., manager of Abac we have previously made money for investors: Solutions Fund I. Abac Solutions Manager S.à.r.l., Consumer, TMT, Services, Industrials and Energy. as the General Partner, is the Fund’s decisionmaking body and makes investment and We like solid cash flow positive businesses led divestment decisions based on recommendations by skillful teams that face challenging situations from the Abac Capital team. such as ownership transitions, corporate carveouts, overleveraged balance sheets or lack At Abac Capital, we believe we add value to of liquidity to finance their growth. The Fund the companies backed by the Fund through does not invest in start-ups, real estate or in operational excellence, strong personal and operationally distressed situations. Abac Capital Sustainability Report 2019 9 About Abac Capital Overview Why Abac We believe that we add value to the businesses we back and are proud of the way we conduct business. Some of the reasons why entrepreneurs, company owners and management teams choose to work with us are: Experienced team with a successful track We believe in the Principles of Responsible record Investing and we do not take shortcuts, as our reputation is our most valued asset. Abac Capital’s founders have excelled investing together in a variety of situations for almost Certainty of execution 20 years. We devote our breadth of learnings and depth of experience to ensure that we Once we decide to go ahead and recommend understand each situation properly and devise a deal, we commit senior attention, resources the optimal solution. Abac Solutions is one of across the entire firm and the necessary capital the very few Southern European private equity from the Fund to ensure the transaction closes funds focused exclusively on sustainable value timely and fairly. We have a simple, well-paced investing. and structured decision-making process that delivers clear feedback during the execution Committed capital behind our ideas phase of a deal. We always put our money where our mouth is. Strong partnership with portfolio companies We always co-invest with the Fund’s Limited Partners and management teams as we believe Investing the Fund’s capital in a business is this is the best way to align our interests and only the beginning of the journey. We are a focus on long-term value creation. hands-on advisor supporting management teams as an integral piece in the definition Long-term relationships and execution of a joint business strategy. Our operating partners provide in-depth analysis We are committed to supporting businesses and seamless execution skills to get the job throughout the economic cycle to ensure their done. Our boards of directors have clear success. We do not speculate. Once the Fund agendas, long-term focus and a sustainability invests in a business, we are loyal to its team drive, and are ready to encourage bold capital and help execute the agreed business plan. expenditures when required to transform Integrity the businesses in which we invest. Our investment team is constantly looking for We never compromise on integrity, as we see add-on acquisitions and growth opportunities it as non-negotiable. We always do the right consistent with the Fund’s portfolio companies thing even if it takes longer or costs more. strategies. Abac Capital Sustainability Report 2019 10 About Abac Capital Portfolio timeline New Revenues Employees investments (€m) (#) 2019 680 3,389 2018 222 1,432 2017 129 735 2016 112 580 2015 63 237 Abac Capital Sustainability Report 2019 11 About Abac Capital Our ethical compass Integrity: We share an uncompromising commitment to do the right thing. Directness: We are honest and direct in our internal and external communications. Excellence: We work hard to excel at whatever we do and to deliver outstanding solutions. Entrepreneurship: We are constantly looking for new opportunities. See a problem? Bring a solution. See an opportunity? Chase it! Accountability: We are all accountable for our job and we take responsibility for our actions individually and as a team. Respect: We like different backgrounds and opinions. We pride ourselves on respecting people of all races, nationalities and beliefs. Team: We play, win and lose together. Social conscience: Sharing time, knowledge and money with those who need it is an integral part of who we are and what we do. Abac Team at an artistic team-building activity to reflect on our corporate values. Abac Capital Sustainability Report 2019 12 Our Sustainable Value strategy Abac Capital Sustainability Report 2019 13 Our Sustainable Value Strategy Strategic objectives We strongly believe that long-term value creation In creating Community Impact, we aim to positively has to come necessarily from a combination influence all our surrounding communities with of improving the businesses in which the Fund our activity, contributing to making a difference invests and doing so in a sustainable manner. with LPs capital. Therefore we: In creating Transformational Value we strive to • Engage with all relevant stakeholders, either grow and improve long-term sustainability of directly or through representatives from our portfolio companies through a hands-on portfolio portfolio companies; management and an operational transformation strategy. Therefore we: • Work to create decent employment and improve gender & minorities equality both at • Transform the Fund’s portfolio companies Abac and the Fund’s portfolio companies; sustainably through appointing excellent management teams, optimising operations, • Embrace citizenship initiatives both at Abac and digitalising processes and helping their the Fund’s portfolio companies by committing international expansion; our time, knowledge and resources with those who need it. • Take resource & energy efficiency, environmental compliance and waste management into consideration as an This is Abac’s pledge to the Fund’s investors, to opportunity to generate positive externalities portfolio companies, to our employees and to in our businesses. our surrounding communities. We are grateful to have investors that share this view and push our boundaries to ensure we do not derail from our In delivering Sustainable Returns we embrace our Sustainability path. fiduciary duty towards our investors, pursuing a value creation strategy and putting our Limited Partners’ capital to work for good. Therefore we: • Consider associated environmental, public health, safety, and social issues before investing in a company; • Transform portfolio companies into purposeled organisations; • Implement appropriate reporting, audit processes, compensation and governance structures at the Fund’s portfolio companies with the goal of improving performance, aligning interests and minimising risks; • Provide appropriate information to the Fund’s Limited Partners on ESG and Sustainability matters and promote transparency about our activities. Abac Capital Sustainability Report 2019 14 Our Sustainable Value Strategy Investment process 1 Deal sourcing Our screening criteria 2 Due diligence Our investment analysis 3 Investment period Our ownership policies and practices 4 Divestment period Accountability and compliance Abac Capital Sustainability Report 2019 15 Our Sustainable Value Strategy Investment process Abac’s purpose and strategic objectives materialise Investment period in a curated investment process designed to ensure Our ownership policies and practices tangible impact and value are created. Our investment • 100 Day Plan: A 100-day plan at the beginning of strategy is built on the firm’s corporate values and the the investment period includes a Sustainability commitment to positively impact the United Nations’ section on ESG and Compliance, defining the policies Sustainable Development Goals. and monitoring systems to be implemented. Sustainability is contemplated at all stages of the • Purpose definition and strategic SDGs investment and divestment process. identification: We accompany portfolio companies in the process of redefining their strategic purpose Deal sourcing and aligning their corporate strategy with a selection Our screening criteria of Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs). We exclude from the Fund’s investment process any • Monitoring: We periodically monitor ESG KPIs, company whose primary activity is: policy implementation and actions to be developed throughout the investment period to ensure • The business of pornography or vice; objectives are met and impact is generated. • the manufacture, distribution, sale or supply of Monitoring includes quarterly reporting on offensive armaments and weapons; performance and status to portfolio companies’ BoD • the manufacture of tobacco products; and Abac, as well as biannual discussions at Portfolio • the operation of gambling or gaming facilities; Reviews and Risk Management Committees. • the engagement in harmful practices to the environment; • Investor Reports: Sustainability matters are • the engagement in discriminatory practices against periodically covered in investor communications at any minority group; or the Annual Investors Meeting (AIM), the Supervisory • the employment of child labour Board and the Annual Sustainability Report. We also exclude any business of which we have Divestment period evidence of Human Rights, labour, environmental Accountability and compliance or corruption issues (as defined by the U.N. Global At exit, we prioritise the continuity of the Sustainability Compact) that cannot be easily stopped by a change strategy implemented during the investment period and of ownership. consider ESG matters in addressing potential bidders. Due Diligence • We consider the potential bidder’s treatment of Our investment analysis ESG matters and the willingness to perpetuate the Sustainability policies implemented during Abac’s The focus on Sustainability begins ahead of the deal holding period. being executed when Abac conducts thorough due diligence on the target company. • We request potential bidders to include a section on Sustainability strategy in their offer letters. We discuss the ESG implications of the business in • We analyse potential bidders’ history with regards our Approval and Investment internal committees to to ESG. develop sound action plans and we always commission independent specialist ESG due diligence. • Our Compliance team performs the relevant know your customer (KYC) checks in accordance with An ESG red flag is often enough to reject a potential the anti-money laundering and the prevention of deal at the approval stage. terrorist financing rules on potential bidders. Abac Capital Sustainability Report 2019 16 Our Sustainable Value Strategy Foundations & Commitments Our public commitments Our Sustainability efforts are guided by the most rigorous international standards, reporting tools and certifications. Our Sustainability undertakings are informed by the following international guidelines: • The Ten Principles of Corporate Governance by the UN Global Compact • The United Nations Principles for Responsible investment • The European Venture Capital Association recommendations • The Comission du Surveillance du Secteur Financier rules • The Comisión Nacional del Mercado de Valores rules • The United Nations Sustainable Development Goals • The Global Reporting Initiative Standards • The B Corporation Certification B Impact Assessment (BAI) • The OECD Anti-Bribery Convention We are signatory of the following international conventions: • The United Nations Principles for Responsible Investment (U.N. PRI) • The United Nations Global Compact Initiative (Signatory Participants)2 2 Abac Capital is a Signatory Participant of the U.N. Global Compact Initiative since 2019 Abac Capital Sustainability Report 2019 17 Our Sustainable Value Strategy Foundations & Commitments Our U.N. Principles for Responsible Investment scorecard Since 2015, we are signatories of the Principles for Responsible Investment, a United Nations’ initiative launched in 2006 by Kofi Annan encouraging its endorsers (asset owners, investment managers and service providers) to 1 We incorporate ESG issues into our investment analysis and decisionrespect its six core principles (see left). making processes. At Abac, we recognise that applying these 2 We are active owners and incorporate Principles helps us better align investors’ interests ESG issues into our ownership policies with broader societal objectives. and practices. 3 We seek appropriate disclosure on We voluntary submitted our ESG performance ESG issues by the entitites in which to the U.N. PRI board for the first time in 2016, we invest. although we were still not mandated to do so and 4 We promote acceptance and our Sustainability practices were not yet where implementation of the Principles they are today. Still, we already obtained abovewithin the investment industry. average scores of “A” for Abac vs. an average of 5 We work together to enhance our “B” for all signatories under our reporting sections effectiveness in implementing the (“Strategy and Governance” and “Private Equity”). Principles. 6 We report on our activities and progress towards implementing the Principles. Abac Capital Sustainability Report 2019 18 Our Sustainable Value Strategy Foundations & Commitments In our 2019 submission, we achieved an A+ in the Private Equity module (see below) and improved in multiple categories revalidating our A level performance for the fourth consecutive year. Particularly, we improved in the following sub-categories: • Responsible Investment Policy and Coverage • Fund placement documents and Responsible Investment • Disclosure of approach to public Private Equity (Abac Score: A+) Overview Communication Fundraising Outputs Pre-Investment & Outcomes Post-Investment Strategy & Governance (Abac’s Score: A) RI Policy Assurance Objective of Responses & Strategies ESG Issues in Governance Asset Allocation & HR Promoting RI Abac score Median other signatories The PRI assessment methodology is available at www.unpri.org Abac’s Assessment Report and Transparency Report are available at www.abacsolutions.lu/en/responsibility/ Abac Capital Sustainability Report 2019 19 Our Sustainable Value Strategy Foundations & Commitments Our Strategic SDGs We are fully committed to advance the United Nations’ 2030 Agenda by positively impacting the Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs) through our business activity. We also steward portfolio companies to design a sustainable strategy integrating the United Nations Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs). We support the United Nations Global Compact Abac’s Commitment to SDGs Initiative as Signatory Participants and we are Although we consider all Sustainable Development committed to implementing its ten principles Goals in our decisions, we believe we must strive regarding human rights, labour, environment and to focus our sustainability efforts on impacting anti-corruption. those topics to which we can contribute the most. Peace, justice and strong Gender equality institutions • Increasing opportunities for women in the private • Implementing sound Governance structures equity industry. across our portfolio. • Embracing women in leadership positions at our • Increasing transparency and reporting processes. portfolio companies. • Fostering gender equality across all our portfolio industries. Partnerships for the goals Decent employment and • Embracing sustainability within the Private economic growth Equity Industry. • Creating purpose-led organisations that will • Sharing best practices across different industries contribute to a prosperous economy in the longthrough our Sustainability Champions. term. • Embracing employee wellbeing across our portfolio. Responsible consumption and production • Optimising operations in a sustainable manner across our portfolio. • Promoting responsible production and consumption practices along our businesses value chains. Abac Capital Sustainability Report 2019 20 Our Sustainable Value Strategy Foundations & Commitments Our portfolio’s commitment to SDGs Background picture: Abac Capital Figueras seats at the United Nations, Hall XX, Genève, Switzerland. Sustainability Report 2019 21 Our Sustainable Value Strategy Foundations & Commitments Our Sustainability Golden Rules We abide by the following Sustainability Golden Rules: Integrity • We have an uncompromising commitment to always do the right thing. • We report any conflict of interest in accordance with our Internal Conduct Regulations. • We keep strict policies that prohibit bribery and other improper payments to public officials, consistent with the OECD Anti-Bribery Convention. • We abide to our Internal Conduct Regulations on confidential, reserved and inside information. Stewardship • We acknowledge that its investment decisions impact the life of the Fund’s portfolio companies, their employees and communities. • We have a fiduciary duty to the Fund’s investors and are committed to the utmost ethical behaviour. • We are aligned with the long-term interests of the Fund’s portfolio companies. • We monitor Environmental, Social and Governance (ESG) factors during the investment process and report them to our Approval, Investment and Portfolio Review Committees. Citizenship • We pride on our extensive commitment to community service and non-profit organisations. • Sharing time, knowledge and money with those who need it is an integral part of our ethos. Abac Capital Sustainability Report 2019 22 Sustainability at Abac Sustainability at Abac Strategic Sustainability KPIs & Purpose Objectives Goals Description SDGs Energy & + 12 KPIs are consistently monitored to Resource improve energy efficiency Management Transformational Waste & + 4 KPIs are consistently monitored to Value Materials reduce and improve waste management + 5 KPIs are consistently monitored Environmental to increase environmental compliance Compliance standards Building Portfolio companies are guided in Purpose building and articulating their purpose “To create + 15 KPIs are consistently monitored to sustainable Sustainable improve governance structures. Abac value in our Returns Governance implements reports and processes to businesses and improve visibility and progress of ESG communities” across portfolio Reporting Portfolio companies quarterly report Processes ESG metrics, initiatives & risks to Abac ± 9 KPIs are consistently monitored to Decent ensure portfolio companies are good Employment employers Community Gender & ± 5 KPIs are consistently monitored to Impact Minorities improve gender and minorities equality Equality Abac engages in citizenship initiatives Citizenship in multiple ways, devoting time and resources to local organisations. Initiatives Citizenship initiatives are encouraged and consistently monitored across portfolio Abac Capital Sustainability Report 2019 24 Transformational Value “ We execute our operational transformation strategy through a hands-on portfolio management that focuses on improving operations in a sustainable manner. Across the portfolio, we encourage companies to implement initiatives to reduce waste and utilities consumption as well as to increase their environmental standards. We are confident that optimising on these dimensions is a triplewin strategy, as it helps the environment, our companies’ competitive position, and in turn, the “ Fund’s performance. Transformational Value Energy & Resource management Energy & Resource management Energy & Resource management Abac’s energy & resource management achievements approach (2019 vs. 2018) During the investment period, we consistently monitor energy and resource management across 25% Companies running on the portfolio, and we encourage initiatives to renewable energy optimise utilities consumption. We regard these initiatives as an opportunity to improve our environmental impact while optimising operations and costs. 100% Companies with energy efficiency measures Although we support responsible resource implemented management in all its dimensions, we especially ask portfolio companies to focus on improving those that are most relevant to their business activity so as to maximise their impact. Examples of energy & resource management initiatives In 2019, all portfolio companies implemented 6% Reduction in electricity energy efficiency measures. Particularly, consumption from transition Metalcaucho and Plating Brap continued to build to LED lighting and other on their energy efficiency initiatives achieving measures an additional 6% reduction on their electricity consumption. In the case of Isolana, only several months after its acquisition by the Fund, the company followed PronoKal’s steps and also changed its electricity 20% Reduction in water supplier to one 100% based on renewable energy consumption from upgrading sources. Currently, 29 of Isolana’s 36 warehouses and retrofitting facilities run on renewable energy. 6% Decrease in CO2 emissions from reduced gas consumption Abac Capital Sustainability Report 2019 26 Transformational Value Energy & Resource management Portfolio Overview Energy & Resource management performance Portfolio assessment 2019 2018 2017 2016 2015 Status of initiatives Companies with Companies with energy gas reduction efficiency initiatives measures 2019 33% 2019 100% 2018 33% 2018 100% 2017 50% 2017 100% 2016 0% 2016 100% Companies with Companies with electricity water reduction reduction initiatives initiatives 2019 50% 2019 100% 2018 50% 2018 100% 2017 25% 2017 100% 2016 50% 2016 100% Abac Capital Sustainability Report 2019 27 Transformational Value Energy & Resource management “ Leading resource efficiency and responsible waste management in agriculture “ Raf tomatoes from Agroponiente. Case Study Agroponiente Deal Status: Current Agroponiente is a European leader in the Investment Year: 2019 production and commercialization of fresh Sector: vegetables and fruits. Its network of over 25 Production and distribution of fresh vegetables collection and operations centres is used by more than 1,500 farmers from the Spanish and fruits provinces of Almería, Granada, Jaén, Málaga Revenues: €319m and Murcia that on a daily basis entrust the Employees in payroll: 1,415 Group to commercialise their products to the most demanding European Clients. The Group U.N. Global Compact Initiative adhesion date: also owns and operates c.80 hectares of November 2019 greenhouses. Prior to Abac’s acquisition in February 2019, Strategic SDGs: Agroponiente was already active in the ESG front. The company was a resource efficiency leader in the agriculture sector, spearheading best-practices in drip irrigation and introducing the Wise Irrisystem technology to monitor crops and optimise water and fertiliser usage. Agroponiente was also monitoring ozonedepleting substances in refrigeration chambers, ensuring recycling of all food waste, and was active in the employment and social fronts, implementing non-discriminatory practices and corporate volunteering. Abac Capital Sustainability Report 2019 28 Implementing Abac’s framework to accelerate sustainability efforts “Abac’s framework has given consistency and direction to the initiatives we were already undertaking in the sustainability arena. Formalisation of sustainability processes has attributed to these initiatives the value they deserve and ensures our actions are always aligned with our sustainability ethos. We are now more agile in the development of new initiatives and have succeeded in engaging employees in the advancement and proposal of actions. We surely have a long way to go, but we are proud to say that Agroponiente has already achieved important milestones within these first months of Abac’s ownership” Andrea Alonso, Sustainability Champion at Grupo Agroponiente Strengthening Governance At the very beginning of the investment period, Agroponiente focused on strengthening corporate governance, appointing a Compliance Committee, and implementing a Code of Conduct, an Anticorruption policy and a Whistle-Blowing Channel. Formalising Environmental policies to reduce waste During 2019, Agroponiente formalised environmental and waste practices already in place, developing an environmental and waste management policy, implementing registration procedures and establishing formal relationships with waste management subcontractors and authorities. Aligning Agroponiente’s roadmap with the Sustainable Development Goals To further align sustainability efforts with its core business, Agroponiente joined the U.N. Global Compact Initiative as a signatory participant in Q4 2019. The company committed to advance those goals most related to their business activity and material topics. The company’s initiatives are guided by the intention to advance the following SDGs: • SDG 2.4, on the implementation of resilient and sustainable agricultural practices • SDG 6.4, on water-efficiency and the sustainable supply of fresh water • SDG 8.8, on labour rights and safe working environments • SDG 12.3, on the reduction of food-waste and losses throughout their value chain. • SDG 12.4, on the environmentally sound management of chemicals (including carbon emissions) along their value chain, contributing to minimise the impact on human health and the environment. “Grupo Agroponiente is now more committed than ever to our surrounding communities and society. Sustainability and responsibility now guide our actions and constitute essential pillars of our competitive advantage” Manuel González, HR Director at Grupo Agroponiente Abac Capital Sustainability Report 2019 29 Transformational Value Waste & Materials Waste & Materials Waste & Materials achievements Abac’s waste & materials approach (2019 vs. 2018) At Abac, we are committed to responsible production and consumption. Consequently, we work to improve waste and materials management 100% Companies implementing in our portfolio companies’ operations and value initiatives to reduce paper and chains. packaging This ambition entails properly managing waste generated by the companies’ operations, as well as choosing more sustainable materials and advancing on R&D to make packaging and operations leaner. Examples of waste & material management initiatives 10% Reduction in paper and packaging from implemented In 2019, several portfolio companies successfully initiatives reduced paper consumption by digitalising and optimising processes. We believe these initiatives illustrate how improving environmental responsibility also helps us advance towards our strategic goals. 5% Reduction in paper and For instance, Metalcaucho avoided printing over packaging from digitalising 1,000 paper sheets per day through process processes and standardising digitalisation and also reduced packaging waste packaging with suppliers by better coordinating with suppliers. Plating Brap is transitioning to more sustainable materials developing a pioneer chrome-free etching technology. 14% Reduction in paper and packaging 63% Reduction in Isocyanate & Polyol waste Abac Capital Sustainability Report 2019 30 Transformational Value Waste & Materials Portfolio Overview Waste & Materials performance Portfolio assessment 2019 2018 2017 2016 2015 Status of initiatives Initiatives to Initiatives reduce paper to reduce and packaging waste 2019 100% 2019 75% 2018 100% 2018 50% 2017 100% 2017 75% 2016 100% 2016 100% Waste management policy 2019 75% 2018 67% 2017 75% 2016 100% Abac Capital Sustainability Report 2019 31 Transformational Value Waste & Materials “ “ Leading sustainable industrial innovation Case Study Plating Brap Plating Brap is a European leader in the plating on plastics market focusing mainly on the Deal Status: Current automotive sector, where it operates as a Tier Investment Year: 2017 2 supplier for the main European brands. The Company estimates that 85% of sales end up in Sector: cars sold outside Spain. Electroplating on plastics Revenues: €13m During 2019, Plating Brap continued to focus on becoming a leader in sustainable industrial Employees in payroll: 89 innovation. The company was immersed in the U.N. Global Compact Initiative adhesion date: process of transitioning to eco-friendlier chemical products through the development of new December 2019 technologies, as well as adhering to the most rigorous environmental management standards. Plating Brap also worked on strengthening its governance standards and focused on Strategic SDGs: implementing compliance policies, improving security within their facilities and engaging in corporate volunteering activities. Plating Brap’s efforts to align the core of its business to sustainability and particularly environmental management exemplify how embracing a company’s potential contribution to the Sustainable Development Agenda, constitutes an opportunity to strengthen its competitive advantage, anticipating future environmental requirements. Abac Capital Sustainability Report 2019 32 Transformational Value Waste & Materials Anticipating future environmental standards In May 2019, the company obtained the ISO 14001 certification. As the automotive sector continues to increase the required environmental standards for players to operate, Plating Brap has pledged to be at the forefront of change. The company has gone a step further and is scheduled to obtain IATF certification by the second quarter of 2020, which will substantially increase its traceability standards. A transformational R&D journey towards sustainability Plating Brap is involved in a transformational R&D journey to minimise the environmental impact of its production activity. The company is working on the transition to safer chemical products, particularly moving away from Chromium VI. Plating Brap was one of the first European players producing Chromium III chloride base parts since 2013 and has complemented its portfolio developing a new Chromium III sulfate base finishing, gaining a best-in-class eco-friendly decorative finishing portfolio. Furthermore, the company is currently developing an even more eco-friendly technology, the Chromefree etching, and is investing in a new production line that will be operative by mid-2020 to comply with European regulation ahead of time, and to maintain its technological cutting edge. Such achievements constitute unprecedented innovation in the industry and a substantial contribution to the advancement of the Sustainable Development Goal n.9 and n.12 on sustainable industrial innovation and responsible production, reducing pollution and potential adverse impacts on human health. Moreover, these R&D efforts are bound to drive improvements not only in chemical management but in energy efficiency as well. Improving governance and safety standards Regarding governance and safety standards, the company developed and implemented an Anticorruption policy, a Criminal Risk Map and was working on the implementation of a Whistle-blowing Channel as of December 2019. Moreover, Plating Brap succeeded in adhering its suppliers and subcontractors to environmental standards and is currently working on adhering them to social best practices as well. “Preserving the environment and human health is a lighthouse that guides Plating Brap. We are fully committed not only to the welfare of our employees but to the welfare of our communities as well. We are convinced we must do our bit in this direction” Francesc Capella, CFO and Sustainability Champion at Plating Brap Aligning business with the Sustainable Development Agenda In December 2019, Plating Brap supported the United Nations Global Compact Initiative as a Signatory Participant, making a public commitment to advance the Sustainable Development Agenda. The company’s management has identified the following SDGs as strategic: • SDG 6, on clean water and sanitation • SDG 9, on industrial innovation • SDG 11, on sustainable cities • SDG 12, on responsible production Abac Capital Sustainability Report 2019 33 Transformational Value Environmental compliance Environmental compliance Environmental compliance achievements Abac’s environmental compliance approach (2019) We encourage portfolio companies to increase transparency and visibility regarding their environmental performance and their suppliers’ 75% Companies with an implemented environmental practices. environmental policy Examples of environmental compliance initiatives So far, 75% of the Fund’s portfolio companies have developed an environmental policy to guide their effort towards sound environmental management and 63% have also gone a step further to ensure their suppliers adhere to the companies’ standards. 93% Metalcaucho suppliers adhered to the company’s environmental In the case of Metalcaucho, 104 suppliers, standards representing 93% of its total business partners, have adhered to its requirements. The company has also visited 88 suppliers, representing 89% of its sales volume, to ensure they are complying with the subscribed policy. 63% Companies with policies requiring its suppliers to adhere to environmental best practices 100% Companies complying with all applicable environmental laws, standards and regulations Abac Capital Sustainability Report 2019 34 Transformational Value Environmental compliance Portfolio Overview Environmental compliance performance Portfolio assessment 2019 2018 2017 2016 2015 Status of initiatives Environmental No serious policy incident in the last 12 months 2019 75% 2019 100% 2018 83% 2018 100% 2017 50% 2017 100% 2016 100% 2016 100% Suppliers Report to adhering to BoD on risks Environmental and impacts best practices identified 2019 63% 2019 50% 2018 67% 2018 50% 2017 50% 2017 25% 2016 50% 2016 50% Abac Capital Sustainability Report 2019 35 Transformational Value Environmental compliance “ “ A journey towards sustainable operations Case Study Metalcaucho Metalcaucho is an independent auto spare parts producer focused on rubber and rubber to metal Deal Status: Current parts with over 7,000 SKUs. Founded in Barcelona, Investment Year: 2015 Metalcaucho has a global footprint, generating over 60% of revenues internationally. Sector: Automobile components Almost five years after Metalcaucho’s acquisition Revenues: €49m in July 2015, the company has completed a transformational journey in multiple sustainability Employees in payroll: 106 dimensions that have resulted in financial and non-financial value creation. During 2019, Metalcaucho pushed to adhere its suppliers to its sustainability standards, continued to improve Strategic SDGs: sustainability in its operations, reinforced its social performance and organised its first corporate citizenship initiative coordinating a corporate blood donation campaign. “As Metalcaucho’s Sustainability Champion, I feel my personal values are aligned with the sustainability initiatives and best practices Metalcaucho pushes to implement” Joan Carles Plana, Sustainability Champion at Metalcaucho Abac Capital Sustainability Report 2019 36 Pushing Sustainability in the value chain By the end of 2019, 104 suppliers representing 93% of Metalcaucho’s purchasing volume had signed a letter adhering to Metalcaucho’s sustainability standards. Regular visits had been conducted at 84% of the suppliers’ manufacturing plants to ensure adhesion to the letter and a policy was under implementation to standardise suppliers’ adhesion. Increasing Environmental Standards In July 2019, Metalcaucho obtained the ISO 9001:2015. Certifying the entire group was the result of a cross-functional effort that recognised the company’s determination to scale up its quality and control standards to all its affiliates. Reducing waste through supplier coordination and lean internal processes Metalcaucho continued to work towards standardising its box sizes and colours to reduce packaging cost and waste. Since 2017, the company has worked to reduce the duplication between the packaging received from suppliers and the one sent to clients. Together with other waste reduction initiatives, Metalcaucho achieved 58% savings. In 2019, Metalcaucho took its initiatives a step further. The company practically stopped printing delivery notes, exclusively sending invoices by email. This initiative resulted in €6,750 annual savings in paper and toner, representing 1,000 sheets of paper per day and 26 toners a year. In other words, Metalcaucho’s improvements in operations avoided cutting down 30 trees per year. Boosting productivity through employee well-being Finally, the company continued to build on the 12% productivity improvements that had previously been achieved, by increasing female employees in the workforce and introducing ergonometric improvements. In May 2019 further ergonometric developments were introduced in the manipulation area to reduce body fatigue and muscle injuries. Lighting and temperature regulation were also enhanced to contribute to employees’ well-being. Abac Capital Sustainability Report 2019 37 Sustainable Returns “At Abac, we recognise that successful long-term performance requires solid Governance systems, fostering transparency and control, and creating “ purpose-led organisations. Abac Capital Sustainability Report 2019 38 Sustainable Returns Building Purpose Abac Operating Partner, Montserrat Maresch, delivering a training on corporate purpose during Abac’s Sustainability Day 2020 Building Purpose We strive to create purpose-led organisations that will succeed together with their surrounding communities in the long-term. We believe defining a corporate purpose helps organisations focus their efforts on those topics where they can have the most impact and aligns their sustainability strategy with their core business, ultimately leading to better performance. Together with our Sustainability Champions, the portfolio management teams and supported by our Operating Partners, we are working to articulate, activate and embed a purpose into the Fund’s portfolio companies. Abac Capital Sustainability Report 2019 39 Sustainable Returns Building Purpose “ “ Defining a corporate purpose Case Study Isolana Isolana is a distributor of insulation systems with 36 distribution centres and over 55,000 sqm Deal Status: Current facilities in Spain. Founded in 1939, the company Investment Year: 2019 is one of the leaders in the supply of thermal and acoustic insulation systems, interior partitions Sector: and passive fire protection materials. The group Insulation systems benefits from its nationwide network to distribute Revenues: €124m other products such as ceramics, paint, parquet, toilets, cement and mortar, among others. Employees in payroll: 396 As a distributor of insulation systems and other building materials, Isolana was already contributing to sound environmental management prior to its acquisition by Abac. The organisation already had a business unit, Ahorro Energético, focused on delivering Strategic SDGs: energy efficiency consulting and environmental certifications. Since its acquisition in May 2019, Isolana has focused on defining its corporate purpose achieving exceptional progress in the sustainability arena. Abac Capital Sustainability Report 2019 40 Transformational Value Waste & Materials Articulating a corporate purpose In the early days after its acquisition, the organisation, supported by its Board of Directors, started its journey towards redefining its purpose setting the basis on which to build a solid sustainability and strategic plan. To articulate its purpose, Isolana conducted an internal survey, considered the needs and characteristics of its sector and locations, and held several management meetings. These three inputs combined guided Isolana in defining a purpose that would connect its core business activity to its employees and the interests of its other surrounding communities. The process concluded with the definition of the following purpose: “To help our clients build comfortable and sustainable housing”. Aligning sustainability efforts with the U.N. Sustainable Development Goals Guided by its purpose, Isolana considered how its business activity could contribute to sustainability in every step of its value chain and how it related to the Sustainable Development Goals. The outcome defined a strategic action plan highlighting those sustainability topics where Isolana could contribute most greatly. Particularly, Isolana committed to advance the Sustainable Development Agenda focusing on: • SDG 7 & 9, on clean energy and industry innovation, curating a sustainable product portfolio • SDG 8, on decent work and economic growth, auditing all workspaces and creating governance structures such as a whistle-blowing channel • SDG 11 & 12, on sustainable cities and responsible consumption, guiding clients in the building industry to reduce their carbon footprint Engaging employees in the realisation of Isolana’s purpose As a final step of its purpose definition, Isolana focused on embedding its strategy within the organisation, creating workshops across business units to engage employees in the definition of Isolana’s values and future initiatives. “Only several months after implementing Abac’s Sustainability Framework, we can already see its benefits not only for our business and employees, but for all our stakeholders. We have focused our core activity on improving energy efficiency and sustainability in the building sector, as well as advancing Governance and engaging in corporate volunteering. We are deeply grateful to Abac’s team who have stewarded us in this journey and hope our efforts will contribute to advancing the Sustainable Development Agenda” Amalia Roca, Sustainability Champion at Isolana Abac Capital Sustainability Report 2019 41 Sustainable Returns Governance Governance Governance achievements Abac’s governance approach (2019) We believe that our sheer focus on proper governance strengthens the trust placed in Abac and its portfolio companies by their employees and 100% Companies with a Code of business partners, and by the Fund’s investors. conduct At the time of acquisition by the Fund, most portfolio companies did not have robust governance systems in place. During the first 100 days after an investment, we set up a common governance structure typically encompassing a Board of Directors with independent members, Audit and Remunerations Committees, a Two Signatory Policy, and a Code of Conduct. With 63% Companies adhered to the U.N. these basics in place, we ask the Sustainability Global Compact Initiative Champion and Compliance Officer at each portfolio company to work together with the HR and Legal departments, and with Abac’s Compliance Director, to further improve the company’s governance. Examples of governance initiatives During 2019, Abac’s Compliance Director 75% Companies with a Corporate together with the portfolio companies’ Offenses Risk Prevention Sustainability Champions, HR and Legal teams Programme focused on implementing a Corporate Offenses Risk Prevention Programme, which essentially ensures all necessary good governance policies and processes are in place. Figueras stood out for the constitution of an “SDG Committee” to track the company’s contribution to advancing their most strategic Sustainable 13% Companies with a constituted Development Goals. SDG Committee to monitor progress Abac Capital Sustainability Report 2019 42 Sustainable Returns Governance Portfolio Overview Governance performance Portfolio assessment 2019 2018 2017 2016 2015 Status of initiatives Board of Compliance Directors Committee & Delegate 2019 100% 2019 100% 2018 100% 2018 67% 2017 100% 2017 25% 2016 100% 2016 0% % Independent Code of Directors >30% Conduct 2019 63% 2019 100% 2018 83% 2018 83% 2017 67% 2017 100% 2016 67% 2016 100% Audit, Whistleblowing Nominations and channel Remunerations Committees 2019 88% 2019 81% 2018 67% 2018 83% 2017 33% 2017 67% 2016 0% 2016 67% Abac Capital Sustainability Report 2019 43 Sustainable Returns Governance Oriol Pinya, CEO of Abac Capital, speaking at Abac’s Sustainability Day in February 2020 Abac’s Corporate Governance Structure At Abac, we recognise that effective corporate management is underpinned by solid governance systems that foster transparency and control. Our Sustainable Value strategy materialises in a series of formal reviews and processes reflecting our embedded Sustainability governance structure. A sound governance structure embeds ESG and Compliance responsibilities across Abac and portfolio companies. Such structure, involves: I) Abac’s CEO and portfolio companies’ BoDs in ESG reviews and strategy setting; II) The appointment of a Compliance Officer at Abac and at all portfolio companies; III) The appointment of a Compliance Director at Abac; and IV) The appointment of Sustainability Champions at Abac and at all portfolio companies, monitoring and executing the ESG strategy. Sustainability matters are discussed periodically at portfolio companies’ BoDs and risk committees, as well as at quarterly meetings between Abac and the portfolio Sustainability Champions. Additionally, Sustainability is addressed at Abac’s Portfolio Review Committees, the LP Supervisory Board, Abac’s Board of Directors, Abac’s Strategy Offsite and at the Annual Investors Meeting. Finally, an annual Sustainability Day assembles all Sustainability Champions. Our annual Sustainability Day, is a great opportunity for us to discuss the strategy for the upcoming months, get feedback on what we can do better, and for the portfolio champions to share experiences and learn from each other’s achievements and struggles. Abac Capital Sustainability Report 2019 44 Sustainable Returns How we monitor performance How we monitor performance Abac’s reporting toolkit As incoming investors to our portfolio companies, we believe it is important to set the tone of the new ownership standards from the very beginning. This is why we make sure the acquired company appoints a “Sustainability Champion” within the first 100 days of ownership and sets up our standardised reporting toolkit. The Sustainability Champion figure Our approach Sustainability Champions are employees We believe that improving Sustainability from the portfolio companies, responsible for performance should firstly be driven by our coordinating sustainability efforts within their portfolio companies rather than being imposed organisations. by Abac. Our reporting toolkit With this in mind, we align incentives to Our reporting toolkit includes a set of KPIs ensure that ESG metrics matter as much applicable to all companies, in addition to as financial ones (e.g., the Remuneration some company or industry specific measures. Committee has the mandate to include ESG It also includes a self-diagnosis of the situation implementation as part of management’s pre-Abac’s investment and a tracker of the variable compensation) and strive to empower initiatives implemented over time to improve Sustainability Champions with the tools the company’s Sustainability performance. required to do their job effectively. Moreover, while we believe it is management’s job to also We set up quarterly meetings between the optimise in this dimension of performance, Sustainability Champion at Abac and the we have regular sessions to discuss new and portfolio companies, where these KPIs and ongoing Sustainability initiatives and to share initiatives are reviewed and discussed before best practices we have seen in other portfolio being presented to their Board of Directors companies or elsewhere. and Abac’s Portfolio Review Committees. Abac Capital Sustainability Report 2019 45 Sustainable Returns How we monitor performance Risk management We protect our downside and minimise the negative impact of events out of our control by rigorously adhering to a comprehensive Risk Management Framework developed in-house based on EVCA’s Risk Measurement guidelines. Every semester we seek to identify key risks at portfolio companies across multiple dimensions and track them over the investment period. We also aggregate the level of risk at Fund level to assess our consolidated exposure (see below for ESG risks). Furthermore, this exercise is an opportunity to review the impact of previously defined mitigation initiatives and, when necessary, propose new ones. Dec ‘15 Dec ‘16 Dec ‘17 Dec ‘18 Dec ‘19 Environmental Social Governance Potential impact on financial performance positive neutral negative Our Risk Management Framework considers We share our Risk Management Framework, Environmental, Social and Governance including our view of ESG risks and issues as risk categories at the same level of opportunities, with the portfolio management management, supply and demand or regulatory teams, so as to contrast our analysis with the risks, among others. While we understand that companies’ internal judgement. From these some risks may never be completely ruled discussions we derive the set of initiatives that out, when assessing ESG risks we consider will be implemented and define a joint task the contribution of implemented initiatives force to execute them, typically coordinated by to mitigate them. Special care is placed to the companies’ financial directors. The status of gauge our ability to monitor ESG performance these initiatives is periodically reviewed by the itself, the probability of occurrence of a certain respective Boards of Directors to track progress risk, and reputational risks arising from and remove any roadblock in implementation. ESG incidents. Our sustainable ownership We believe that our systematic approach to framework also contemplates the opportunity risk management allows us to create value by to generate value through initiatives addressing leaving healthier companies with controlled ESG issues; thus, we seek to implement risk exposures. actions that generate positive contributions to the company’s performance beyond simply mitigating risk exposures. Abac Capital Sustainability Report 2019 46 Community Impact “At Abac, we recognise the importance of making an impact in the communities where our companies are based. As the Fund’s portfolio grows, so does the number of employees under the Abac umbrella and therefore the positive impact good employment initiatives may have. We advocate the need to improve gender and minorities equality across all industries. We also support employee-driven community engagement initiatives throughout the Fund’s portfolio to foster a “ responsible citizenship mindset. Abac Capital Sustainability Report 2019 47 Community Impact Decent employment Decent employment Decent employment achievements Abac’s decent employment approach (2019) We wrapped up 2019 with 3,389 employees under Abac’s umbrella. We acknowledge that as we continue to grow, so does our opportunity to 88% Companies with a provide good employment in the communities workers’ council where our portfolio companies operate. Fostering good employment and wellbeing is an essential part of our commitment to community impact. We believe we should first strive to positively impact our employees. Examples of decent employment initiatives 45% Decrease in During the year, we witnessed how portfolio employee turnover companies continued to work towards improving employee wellbeing. Particularly, Figueras signed a new collective agreement introducing numerous initiatives to improve work-life balance. PronoKal was also immersed in an intense process to 1 Companies with a new revamp its HR benefits, introducing work-life collective agreement balance initiatives and employee counselling services. Portfolio companies also worked to extend their good employment practices along their supply chain. For instance, Metalcaucho visited 38% Companies with suppliers 88 suppliers not only to make sure they were adhering to social best adhering to their environmental standards, but practices also to social ones. 88 Visits conducted to suppliers facilities to ensure adhesion to social best practices Abac Capital Sustainability Report 2019 48 Community Impact Decent employment Portfolio Overview Decent employment performance Portfolio assessment 2019 2018 2017 2016 2015 Status of initiatives Business Workers’ partners council adhering to social practices 2019 88% 2018 67% 2019 38% 2017 75% 2018 55% 2016 67% 2017 25% 2016 50% Tracking Tracking employee absenteeism turnover 2019 100% 2019 100% 2018 100% 2018 100% 2017 100% 2017 100% 2016 100% 2016 100% Abac Capital Sustainability Report 2019 49 Community Impact Decent employment “ An industrial company at the “ forefront of employee wellbeing Collection of historic chairs at Figueras’ headquarters Case Study Figueras Figueras is a global leader in the design and manufacturing of high-end solutions for public Deal Status: Current spaces that combine architectural design with Investment Year: 2015 state-of-the-art innovation and engineering. 90% of Figueras’ revenues come from international Sector: projects. The company exports to more than High-end seating solutions for public spaces 130 countries and has installed over its history Revenues: €39m more than 10 million seats in 40,000 projects globally through its network of subsidiaries and Employees in payroll: 164 showrooms around the world. U.N. Global Compact Initiative adhesion date: During 2019, Figueras achieved remarkable March 2019 progress in the employee-wellbeing and governance fronts. For instance, the signature of a new union agreement in July 2019 was a great success for the company. In terms of Governance, Strategic SDGs: Figueras made substantial improvements in training and adhering to international standards. The high point of its effort was reached in July 2019 with the constitution of an SDG committee to discuss and monitor the company’s contribution to the Sustainable Development Agenda. All in all, during 2019 Figueras continued to embrace sustainability as an engine for continuous improvement. Abac Capital Sustainability Report 2019 50 Community Impact Decent employment Introducing work-life balance initiatives to increase employee wellbeing Employee well-being is core to Figueras and drove many of the initiatives its Sustainability Champion and HR Director, Carme Tomàs, developed and implemented during 2019. The new collective agreement introduced flexible timetables and different annual working-week schemes. Additionally, the company introduced a flexible retribution scheme, healthier food options, declared the totality of its facilities as non-smoking and introduced automated external defibrillators. “The new Collective Agreement was a huge success in terms of employee wellbeing. Not only does it contribute to a happier work environment, but it is proving fundamental in improving employees’ worklife balance and constitutes a huge opportunity to reduce our carbon footprint. Having flexible schedules, allows us to organise and drive to work in group, and to avoid peak traffic hours” Carme Tomàs, Sustainability Champion at Figueras Fostering youth employment Figueras was recently awarded with a distinction from the local City Council in recognition for its internship program addressed to vocational training students. Every year, Figueras trains young professionals and stewards them in accessing the labour market. Embracing innovative Governance structures to minimise risk In terms of Governance, Figueras implemented a whistle-blowing channel, an anti-corruption policy and an anti-money laundering policy, and conducted extensive compliance training to employees. The company introduced an innovative governance scheme, appointing a group of “key” employees to ensure Figueras meets its Governance standards at all times. These employees are managers involved with risk factors and are receiving specific training according to their focus area. Advancing the U.N. Sustainable Development Goals through an SDG Committee Figueras is a signatory participant of the United Nations Global Compact Initiative since March 2019 and has committed to advance the Sustainable Development Agenda particularly focusing on: • SDG 3, on well-being and employees’ health • SDG 5, on gender equality and women’s participation at all levels within organisations • SDG 8, on decent work and equal pay for work of equal value • SDG 10, on the reduction of inequalities and discrimination • SDG 12, on responsible production • SDG 16, on the promotion of strong institutions In July 2019, an SDG Committee was constituted to monitor and discuss the company’s contribution to the U.N. Sustainable Development Goals. “We are thankful to Abac for leading us into the consideration of Sustainability in our business activity. In a context where organisations have such a huge influence, we must embrace our responsibility to leave a better world to the next generations” Carme Tomàs, Sustainability Champion at Figueras Abac Capital Sustainability Report 2019 51 Community Impact Decent employment “ “ Improving training and social inclusion in retail Case Study Motorcard Motocard is a leading distributor of motorcycle gear and accessories in Spain and Andorra. Deal Status: Current The company distributes its products through Investment Year: 2018 a network of 11 stores and an online shop that registers more than 30,000 daily visitors. Sector: Omnichannel motorcycle accessories retailer During 2019, Motocard continued to improve its Revenues: €45m Sustainability performance especially in terms of Governance, employee-wellbeing and citizenship. Employees in payroll: 166 Prior to Abac’s acquisition in late 2018, the company had already developed a strong sustainability culture which was embedded across the organisation. In that regard, Abac’s sustainability toolkit helped Motocard formalise the Sustainability dimensions the company had been working on, taking them a step further down Strategic SDGs: the sustainability road. Abac Capital Sustainability Report 2019 52 Fostering employee diversity and inclusion Conscious of its relevant role as an employer, Motocard conducted several initiatives on the employeewellbeing and diversity fronts. In the early months of 2019, two disabled employees were hired to join Motocard’s team at the company’s warehouse in Solsona. The initiative corroborated Motocard’s commitment to the AMISOL Association, a non-profit organisation working to integrate people with disabilities into the labour market. Digitalising employee training through gamification In September 2019, Motocard started using Atrivity, an interactive training tool, in an effort to boost employee engagement and improve training. Atrivity is an enterprise gamification solution helping companies improve their business performance by shortening onboardings, engaging employees, and reinforcing training and sales teams’ knowledge. The initiative was very succesful among the employees and reinforced the company’s commitment to client satisfaction by ensuring employees have excellent knowledge on product characteristics. Implementing sound Governance processes In the Governance front, Motocard continued to implement Abac’s toolkit, appointing a Compliance Committee, implementing a whistle-blowing channel and continuing to work towards the adhesion of its suppliers to its social liability code, by signing a purchase policy. The company also started the process of adhesion to the U.N. Global Compact Initiative, recognising the importance of the Sustainable Development Goals and aligning its sustainability efforts accordingly. Embracing citizenship initiatives in strategic topics Furthermore, Motocard continued to embrace its citizenship commitment. Recognising road safety as one of the key pillars of its business, Motocard engaged in “Ponle freno” road safety campaigns. Additionally, the company collaborated with AMISOL Association during the Saint George festivities and also enganged in toy and material donation campaigns during Christmas. Finally, Motocard is planning a collaboration in the upcoming months with two students participating in UNIRAID, a solidarity rally across Africa, supplying basic goods to underprivileged communities across Morocco. Abac Capital Sustainability Report 2019 53 Community Impact Gender & Minorities equality Gender & Minorities equality Gender & Minorities equality Abac’s gender & monitories equality approach achievements (2019) At Abac, we believe plurality matters and creates value to companies and society. We acknowledge the benefits of diversity and work hard to suppress 47% Percentage of women in gender bias and foster inclusion in the portfolio portfolio’s workforce companies’ workforce. Examples of gender and minorities equality initiatives 75% Companies with at least During 2019, we improved parity at management 20% of women in executive level appointing the first female CEO in the portfolio positions and witnessed how companies continued to work towards improving gender and minorities equality. Particularly, Beer&Food hired two employees at risk of social exclusion at two of its restaurant locations in Madrid, collaborating with Down Madrid and Aura Foundation, with whom we also intensely collaborate at Abac. Motocard, also led social inclusion, hiring two employees from 88% Companies with disabled AMISOL Foundation to join its warehouse team in employees in the payroll Solsona. As for PronoKal, the company was highlighted in a publication by the Spanish Network of the U.N. Global Compact Initiative for its contribution to gender equality. 4 Employees at risk of social exclusion hired in 2019 1 Companies with a female CEO Abac Capital Sustainability Report 2019 54 Community Impact Gender & Minorities Equality Portfolio Overview Gender & Minorities equality performance Portfolio assessment 2019 2018 2017 2016 2015 Status of initiatives % Females in management Equality & team >20% Diversity policy 2019 75% 2019 63% 2018 67% 2018 67% 2017 20% 2017 50% 2016 0% 2016 33% Disabled employees in % Female the payroll Directors >20% 2019 88% 2019 13% 2018 50% 2018 17% 2017 60% 2017 33% 2016 100% 2016 33% Abac Capital Sustainability Report 2019 55 Community Impact Gender & Minorities equality “ “ A pledge to improve gender equality Case Study Pronokal Deal Status: Current Investment Year: 2016 PronoKal is specialised in medical dietary treatments for patients suffering from obesity Sector: Medical dietary treatments and overweight. The company operates in 14 Revenues: €53m countries in Europe and Latin America, offering a Employees in payroll: 389 comprehensive weight-loss solution that includes medical and dietary advice, meal replacements, U.N. Global Compact Initiative adhesion date: personal trainers and coaching services. March 2019 In 2019, PronoKal Group saw its sustainability Strategic SDGs: efforts recognised on multiple occasions by the Spanish Network of the U.N. Global Compact Initiative. The company has been supporting the network since March 2019 as a signatory participant, actively working to advance the Sustainable Development Agenda. “Joining the U.N. Global Compact has given us the perfect framework to structure our Sustainability Plan and has helped us communicate our endeavours both internally and externally” Marta Morell, Sustainability Champion at PronoKal Group Abac Capital Sustainability Report 2019 56 Community Impact Gender & Minorities Equality At the beginning of the year, the company approved a Strategic Plan for 2019-2021 outlining the Group’s long-term commitment to sustainability in four impact areas: Environmental Responsibility, Social Commitment, Human Capital and Governance. Fourteen concise action plans were devised within those areas to guide PronoKal’s sustainability actions thereafter. Public recognition by the U.N. Global Compact In October 2019, PronoKal was featured in a publication by the Spanish Network of the U.N. Global Compact Initiative that selected PronoKal as one of 84 Spanish organisations leading change in the 2030 Sustainable Development Agenda in terms of gender equality. PronoKal focused on improving gender equality and revamping social benefits to increase employee wellbeing, thus highlighting its commitment to SDGs 5 and 8. PronoKal’s Equality Plan featured a gender study concluding there was room for improvement in the percentage of women in management positions (31% in 2018) and highlighting that all working day reduction requests had been brought forward by women. Revamping social benefits for employees In terms of employee wellbeing, PronoKal implemented intensive working hours in August to contribute to family conciliation and pioneered the introduction of a 24-hour counselling service for employees in partnership with Salud y Persona Foundation. The company also developed internal communication procedures to foster employee engagement, for instance introducing Yammer, a corporate social network, and scheduling monthly breakfasts with the CEO and biannual business updates to keep employees informed about the organisation’s recent undertakings. Corporate volunteering initiatives to advance SDGs 2, 3 & 10 2019 was also a very successful year in terms of corporate volunteering, materialising Pronokal’s commitment to SDGs 2,3 and 10. Volunteering initiatives in 2019 included the organisation of a solidarity walk in collaboration with Acción Contra el Hambre Foundation and the design of a grant program that will offer PronoKal’s services to those who cannot afford the treatment. Abac Capital Sustainability Report 2019 57 Community Impact Gender & Minorities equality “ Embedding sustainability across “ the organisation Case Study Ber & Food Beer&Food is a multi-brand restaurant operator serving over 400 points of sale through a Deal Status: Current combination of international master franchises Investment Year: 2018 such as American chains Carl’s Jr. and Tony Sector: Restaurant operator Roma’s, national licenses such as Gambrinus and Cervecería Cruz Blanca, and own brands such as Revenues: €38m La Chelinda and Tommy Mel’s. Employees in payroll: 664 The company started the year adhering to the U.N. U.N. Global Compact Initiative adhesion date: Global Compact Spanish Network, symbolising January 2019 Beer & Food’s commitment to advancing the Sustainable Development Agenda. B&F succeeded in aligning its ESG Strategy with the Sustainable Development Goals and committed Strategic SDGs: to advancing them both through its core business activity but also acting as SDG advocates in those matters that are important to the company and its stakeholders. The company initiated this journey by assessing how its previous ESG efforts had been impacting SDGs. After assessing the synergies between SDGs and its mission and values (defined as CRETA: Commitment, Responsibility, Excellence, Team-work and Audacity), the process concluded with the approval of a Sustainability Plan. Abac Capital Sustainability Report 2019 58 Engaging employees in corporate sustainability efforts B&F excelled in its efforts to communicate and improve internal employee engagement in sustainability. A quarterly Newsletter has been implemented, featuring a summary of the company’s Sustainability initiatives. “We believe ESG must be cross-functional and engage the entire organisation. In this regard, the Sustainability Champion figure rotates which is why I am stepping down from my position as a Sustainability Champion and passing on the responsibility to Víctor Pereira. Our Newsletters are also fundamental in promoting individual awareness in the organisation. We strive to contribute to our communities with our actions, and are determined to promote the same mindset among our stakeholders” Noelia Hernán, Former Sustainability Champion at Beer & Food Creating inclusive and responsible work environments From a social standpoint, Beer&Food worked to create more inclusive work environments, incorporating an employee from Aura Foundation and another from Down Madrid in two of its Carl’s Jr. restaurants in Madrid. Additionally, the company successfully engaged in corporate volunteering activities proposed by its employees. It particularly collaborated with Fundación Columbus, fighting child cancer and rare diseases, Fundación Los Romeros, helping vulnerable families, and engaged in initiatives against gender violence. “By collaborating with Aura Foundation and Down Madrid, we are not only contributing to social inclusion, but also enriching our workforce with diversity and inclusion” Víctor Pereira, Sustainability Champion at Beer & Food Moving towards sustainable consumption Beer & Food made great progress introducing sustainability initiatives in its restaurants. In December 2019, single-use plastic reduction initiatives were implemented in Carl’s Jr. restaurants, only providing single-use plastic upon customers’ request. Additionally, the company started offering the socially responsible mineral water AUARA which dedicates 100% of its dividends to clean water projects in 16 developing countries having impacted more than 40k people so far. Abac Capital Sustainability Report 2019 59 Community Impact Citizenship initiatives Citizenship initiatives at Abac At Abac, we believe that it is important to lead by example. We take pride in our extensive and multifaceted commitment to community service and our support to non-profit organisations. Key elements of our citizenship initiatives include: Pro bono work Social entrepreneurship Abac employees devote part of their work Abac Capital collaborates with Ship2B, a €2 time to collaborate with NGOs such as the million social impact fund, analysing and Aura Foundation or the Cottolengo del Padre offering investment recommendations on early Alegre. We also collaborate with educational stage social impact projects. institutions such as ESADE Business School, Barcelona Graduate School of Economics and Abac to Foundations Fundació Pere Tarrés. Abac Capital donates 1% of its annual profits to a selected group of non-profit organisations Non-profit board service sponsored by our employees. We encourage our team members to take active board positions in non-profit organisations and Matching Gift Program help these institutions with our organisational Abac matches euro for euro the donations that expertise and network of contacts. our employees make to charitable and nonprofit organisations where they volunteer their Sustainable Investment promotion time for service. Sustainable Investment is an integral part of Abac’s ethos; we proactively talk about and Sustainability Prize promote ESG and Sustainable Investment in We annually offer a symbolic award to public forums such as private equity conferences, the employee that contributes the most talks in universities and roundtables. to sustainability at Abac, devoting hours to volunteering, commuting sustainably to the office and fostering initiatives to be implemented both at Abac and portfolio companies. The winner is designated as Abac’s Annual Sustainability Ambassador. Abac Capital Sustainability Report 2019 60 Community Impact Citizenship initiatives We consider our citizenship initiatives an integral part of who we are as a team. We strive to support our community by devoting our time, knowledge and financial resources to them. During 2019, we dedicated over 1% of profits and 1% of our time to community-engagement initiatives with the following institutions: Aura Foundation is a non-profit organisation Ship2B is the largest impact investing network in striving to improve the quality of life of people Spain, accelerating social impact projects through with intellectual disabilities by helping them a community of mentors, experts, and public to integrate into society and finding them and private entities. During 2019, we helped employment. Once a month, a team from Aura Ship2B in the analysis of impact opportunities comes to Abac’s offices, where we coach them and mentored some of their entrepreneurs-inand help them prepare for professional interviews. residence. Recover Hospitals for Africa is a non-profit Cottolengo del Padre Alegre is an institution organisation developing health-related projects in created in 1939 in Barcelona as a home for people Africa together with local partners. Our donation with incurable diseases and limited financial in 2017 financed the expansion of a health centre means. Every two weeks, a team of two Abac in Obout, Cameroun. employees visited the centre to feed patients who could not help themselves. Fundació Joan Salvador Gavina is a day-care Fundació Arrels is an entity looking after centre for children in risk of social exclusion in homeless people who live in the city of Barcelona Barcelona’s Raval neighbourhood. In 2019, we since 1987. They guide them towards a better started preparing together with its management and more independent life, covering their basic team, a programme to foster basic financial needs, providing them with medical assistance knowledge to families with low incomes at risk of and offering housing. In December 2019, we social exclusion in the neighbourhood. donated winter clothing to the organisation as it was preparing for the coldest months of the year. Abac Capital Sustainability Report 2019 61 Community Impact Citizenship initiatives “La Marató de TV3” is an annual telethon broadcast Banc dels Aliments is a charitable foundation that organised by the Catalan public television (TV3) recovers surplus food and distributes it to local to raise funds for scientific research into diseases entities that deliver it to people in need. Abac’s which are currently incurable. In 2019, Abac donation in December 2019 supported its regular matched each kilometer run by the team during campaigns to raise awareness and collect food a working day with a donation for rare diseases for those who need it. research. ESADE Alumni Social promotes active “Escola i Empresa” is an initiative aiming to participation in the construction of a more just connect high school students to local businesses society and a more sustainable world within and debate about business contribution to the business profession. Some Abac employees society. Abac employees regularly engage with who are alumni devote spare time as solidarity the organisation participating in sessions with consultants for organisations in the social students at local high schools. ecosystem. ESADE is one of the top global centres of Barcelona Graduate School of Economics is a management education. Abac employees graduate education institution offering master’s collaborated with ESADE delivering lessons on degrees in Economics, Finance, and Data Science. private equity and case studies on management An Abac employee is a patron of the school. where Sustainable Investing was a recurring topic of discussion. Nuevo Futuro is a non-profit organisation aiming Pere Tarrés Foundation is a non-profit educational to foster the social development of children and social-action organisation promoting the deprived of a normal family environment. In leisure education of children and young people. 2019, we supported “Proyecto Sirio”, an initiative Abac participates in regular meetings of the providing assistance and special treatment to “Agrupació d’Amics de la Fundació Pere Tarrés” children with serious mental illnesses. together with other executives to strengthen the organisation’s partnerships. In 2019, we also donated IT material. Abac Capital Sustainability Report 2019 62 Community Impact Citizenship initiatives Oriol Pinya participating as a speaker at the presentation of ASCRI’s Abac volunteers at Aura Foundation after the presentation of a new a “Private Equity and Venture Capital Responsible Investment Guide” in mentoring edition. January 2020. Abac volunteers cleaning Barcelona’s beach. In October 2019, we Members from the Aura Foundation during one of their regular visits celebrated an environmental awareness day collaborating with to Abac. Surfrider Foundation. Once a year, Abac employees run an “office” marathon to raise funds In November 2019, we celebrated a solidarity month in partnership with for healthcare research in collaboration with “La Marató de TV3”. This Arrels Foundation, Banc dels Aliments Foundation and Hospital Sant Joan year, we collected over €1,900. de Déu. Abac’s portfolio also engages in multiple citizenship initiatives with their surrounding communities. In 2019, 75% of the Fund’s portfolio was regularly conducting corporate citizenship initiatives. Below, are a few examples: In April 2019, PronoKal organised a solidarity walk in collaboration with Acción In December 2019, Agroponiente participated in a toy donation campaign Contra el Hambre Foundation donating €10 per km to fight child malnutrition. for kids at the Torrecárdenas University Hospital. The company donated over The company coordinated 71 participants who collectively ran 355km. 200 toys to hospitalised children. Abac Capital Sustainability Report 2019 63 Parting thoughts We hope our 2019 Sustainability Report has helped you grasp how we approach sustainability as a fundamental dimension of our strategy and portfolio management efforts. We are certain there is opportunity in conjugating the achievement of financial objectives with addressing social and environmental challenges, thus preparing the Fund’s portfolio companies for a successful future. Since our inception in 2014, we have worked incessantly to articulate our ambition and create shared value for our businesses and communities. We have walked a long way since then, but we must relentlessly continue to do so together with our team, portfolio companies, investors and Operating Partners. In Spain, we strive to spread this message among the Private Equity ecosystem, as we are convinced the future of the industry broadly relies on how firmly we integrate sustainability in our mindsets. We would not have achieved the progress summarised in this report without our Sustainability Champions Carles Plana (Metalcaucho), Carme Tomàs (Figueras), Marta Morell (PronoKal), Francesc Capella (Plating Brap), Víctor Pereira (Beer & Food), Èric Testagorda (Motocard), Andrea Alonso (Agroponiente) and Amalia Roca (Isolana). Thank you all for your unceasing efforts in catalysing change within your organisations. We look forward to creating sustainable value in our businesses and communities together. The Abac Team Abac Capital Sustainability Report 2019 64 Abac Capital S.L. Lleó XIII, 24 08022 Barcelona T. +34 93 545 65 00 Alcalá, 96 4º Centro 28009 Madrid T. +34 91 578 92 57 www.abaccapital.com SUSTAINABLE VALUE Abac Capital Sustainability Report 2019 65
