1 Corporate Profile RPRE was founded on the vision of making the world a better place and leaving it as so for future generations. We do so by focusing on the sustainability concept of the triple bottom line entailing the principles of People, Planet and Profit. RPRE has always operated and will continue to function while keeping those principles in mind. Sustainability-related matters are governed primarily by RPRE’s top management, consisting of RPRE’s CEO and Business Development Manager. It is RPRE’s mission to help off-grid commercial and industrial customers transition from dirty to clean renewable energy. The company focuses on customers in both Singapore and Indonesia. The head office is located in Singapore with representative offices in Jakarta, Manado and Bali. The taskforce consist of 11 employees. RPRE is a registered social enterprise with raiSE as we provide inclusive and fair hiring opportunities for the vulnerable community. RPRE is also ​certified B Corporation. Certified B Corporations® (B Corps) are for-profit companies that use the power of business to build a more inclusive and sustainable economy. (Link: R​ PRE's B Impact Report​) Scope of Report This report covers RPRE’s sustainability-related data during the period of inception in ​1 January 2017 to 30 September 2020. The information presented in this document applies to all of RPRE’s workplaces, including its headquarters based in Singapore, Indonesian-based offices (Jakarta, Manado, Bali and project sites). For any questions on the report, please contact: mgmt@rpreasia.com RPRE Integrated Sustainability Report 2020 2 TABLE OF CONTENTS INTRODUCTION 6 Our Sustainability Scorecard 6 CEO’s STATEMENT 8 Materiality and the Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs) 10 STAKEHOLDER DESCRIPTIONS & SIGNIFICANCE 17 Customers 17 Employees 17 Suppliers & Manufacturers 17 Investors 17 Government & Regulators 17 Media 17 Community & other Ecosystem Partners 17 IDENTIFYING ISSUES MATERIAL TO STAKEHOLDERS 18 PEOPLE 21 OCCUPATIONAL HEALTH, SAFETY AND WELL-BEING 21 LABOUR CONDITIONS 23 Employment 23 Labour and Management Relations 23 Diversity and Equal Opportunity 24 Non-discrimination 25 HUMAN RIGHTS 25 PRODUCT SAFETY AND CUSTOMER WELL-BEING 26 CYBERSECURITY AND DATA GOVERNANCE 26 LOCAL COMMUNITIES 27 TALENT ATTRACTION, RETENTION AND DEVELOPMENT 28 PLANET 29 RPRE Integrated Sustainability Report 2020 3 ENERGY 29 EMISSIONS 31 RESPONSIBLE SUPPLY CHAIN AND SOURCING 31 Materials 31 Suppliers Environmental Assessment 32 WATER 32 BIODIVERSITY 33 Mitigating Climate Change Risks And Identifying Opportunities Through Design 33 Environmental Impact Assessment (EIA) 34 WASTE 34 PROFIT 35 ECONOMIC CONTRIBUTION TO SOCIETY 35 Economic Performance 35 Risks and Opportunities due to Climate Change and Financial Implications 35 Plan Obligations 36 Singapore 36 Indonesia 37 Financial Assistance from Governments 37 Singapore 37 Indonesia 40 Market Presence 41 Singapore 41 Indonesia 41 Indirect Economic Impact 42 PROCUREMENT PRACTICES 42 SUSTAINABLE FINANCE 43 GOVERNANCE 44 ANTI-CORRUPTION 44 BUSINESS ETHICS AND COMPLIANCE 45 RPRE Integrated Sustainability Report 2020 4 Anti-competitive Behaviour 45 Tax 45 Environmental Compliance 45 Socioeconomic Compliance 46 GRI CONTENT INDEX 47 General Disclosures 47 Topic-Specific Standards 53 REFERENCE LIST 71 RPRE Integrated Sustainability Report 2020 5 INTRODUCTION Our Sustainability Scorecard PEOPLE​ RPRE Integrated Sustainability Report 2020 6 PLANET PROFIT RPRE Integrated Sustainability Report 2020 7 CEO’s STATEMENT Dear Stakeholders, The year 2020 saw many businesses affected by challenges posed by COVID19. RPRE is no different. As I write, we are still in the midst of the rising storm; circuit breakers in place, international borders closed, number of infected rising; countries lockdown are some of the many curve balls thrown at us. On top of COVID19, we are also racing against time to prevent global warming and achieve the goal of the Paris Agreement to limit the global average temperature increase to 1.5​°C. In the face of today’s challenges, while we helm and steer RPRE out of the current turbulent waters, we continue to remain focused on our vision; “to make the planet a better place by focusing on the triple bottom line of People, Planet, and Profit, and leave a better planet for our future generations. Our theme for our Sustainable report is titled “Rising above the challenges and beyond”. It reflects our commitment to continue being the agent of change to drive and rise above current challenges and leave a better planet for our future generations. Our 3Ps Strategy People People, the driving force behind our business. Employees Immediate strategy; Transforming the way we do work to keep employees safe. In-line with our ​Core Values​, we implemented Work From Home (WFH) in March to ensure safety of our employees and help prevent the spread of COVID19. Training on WFH as well as online product and technical training were also our focus. On a longer term, we plan to continue increasing our headcount through inclusive hiring. We continue to work with SG Enable to source for talents in the needed roles. Customers Immediate strategy; Hand Holding customers. Reaching out to all our customers to understand their current situation and together source for solutions. On a mid to longer term, continue focusing on our mission to help off grid Commercial and Industrial customers transition from dirty to clean energy by increasing our business development efforts to expand our leads in our country of focus. Community Immediate strategy; partnering with key impact investors to bring aid and grants to our NGO customers. Mid to longer term Partnering Social Service Agencies to implement renewable energy solutions so that they can achieve sustainable long term energy cost saving. Hiring local communities where possible for all our project sites. RPRE Integrated Sustainability Report 2020 8 Planet and Profit Planet, reducing carbon emissions for a better planet. With the imminent threat of global warming, RPRE aim to install a total of 3.2MWp Solar PV system for Year 2020. This will mean over the lifespan of 20years for the installed PV Solar system, we will achieve a reduction of tCO2 of 30,134 tons of carbon emission as well as a generation of 76.8MWh of green and clean energy. With the uncertainty of COVID19, the immediate challenges are access to manufacturers and suppliers based in the lockdown countries. It is difficult to conduct physical site visits due to the restricted travelling within and outside Singapore. To overcome such challenges, we are widening our networks of manufacturers and suppliers as well as focusing on projects that are based in locations where we have manpower. We recognise the risks facing us today and we strongly believe that by staying on track, focusing on our mission and vision as well the partnership with our stakeholders in the value chain, we will rise and overcome such challenges and together steer towards greater heights. Keep Safe and Stay Safe! Robin Pho Founder and CEO RPRE Integrated Sustainability Report 2020 9 Materiality and the Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs) In this report, RPRE referred to the GRI Standards (2016) Materiality Principle. We identified social, environmental, and economic issues as material issues and these are classified according to our People, Planet and Profit strategy. The following table lists the issues RPRE finds most material to its business, maps them to the seven SDGs that RPRE also considers being the most relevant, and states RPRE’s commitments to those issues. Table 1 Material Issues & RPRE’s Commitments Material Issues (& Supporting SDGs) RPRE’s Commitments Jan to Sep 2020 Performance PEOPLE Occupational Health, Safety And ● It is RPRE’s responsibility and goal to ● Since inception in Year 2017, we have zero Well-being consistently provide everyone with a safe and records of staff hospitalised due to accidents healthy work environment and unsafe workplaces. ● At RPRE, all staff are guided by the Occupational and Health policy that is documented in our Employees Handbook. ● Safety ​also forms one of the core values that RPRE embraces. Labour Conditions (Includes ● RPRE is committed to: ● Since inception in Year 2017, the team has employment, labour management clocked a total of 1486 training hours. relations, diversity and inclusion, ○ Proper performance measurement and and non-discrimination) management. ● From Jan to Sep 2020, the team has clocked a ○ Provide sufficient training and development total of 664 training hours from Jan to Sep and ensure occupational health and safety. 2020. ○ Provide decent work, fair opportunities, and career development of its employees ● 27% of our current team is made up of ○ Gender equality and provide opportunities females. We target to grow this to 33% by Year fairly for individuals of both genders 2021. RPRE Integrated Sustainability Report 2020 10 ● RPRE strives to provide opportunities to ● RPRE continues to provide employment to 1 vulnerable communities such as Persons With PWD and has collaborated with UNHCR to Disabilities (PWD), persons with critical illness, provide employment for 1 refugee. and the undischarged bankrupt ● RPRE supports the United Nations High Commissioner for Refugees (UNHCR)’s mission to safeguard the rights and well-being of refugees. RPRE hopes to support refugees in any way it can and welcomes refugees to join as interns Human Rights ● RPRE will not condone the use of child or forced ● To ensure our supply chain partners do not labour at any point of the supply chain of its exploit or use child labour, a process is in place products and/ or services to screen our suppliers before onboarding. ● RPRE also recognises the rights of indigenous ● Anti-child labour and rights of indigenous peoples, and that they are entitled to retain community policies are formally documented their customs and institutions as well as in employee handbook and all new employees self-determination are expected to familarise themselves with the stated policies. ● RPRE strives to always deliver our services to clients professionally and honestly ● Code of conduct for employees when dealing with both internal and external stakeholders ● RPRE also seeks to guarantee our clients’ safety are documented in the employee handbook. and well-being Professionalism is also a core value of RPRE. Cybersecurity And Data Governance ● RPRE is committed to protecting the privacy and ● RPRE has a designated Data Protection Officer data of customers and employees (DPO) who ensures that all sensitive information is stored in a secured drive and that only authorised personnel can access it. RPRE Integrated Sustainability Report 2020 11 Local Communities ● RPRE believes that greater impact can only be ● RPRE strives to provide project based achieved through partnerships employment opportunities for the local community where possible, in project ● Besides seeking to provide vulnerable locations. This is documented as part of our communities with employment opportunities, SOP when evaluating man power needs for RPRE also supports project-based employment on-site project construction. for local communities where possible Talent Attraction, Retention And ● RPRE believes that learning and training are ● RPRE has provided a total of 13 internship Development crucial and commits to ensuring the growth and opportunities for students since inception in development of its employees Year 2017. 53% of the internships were awarded to females. ● RPRE is dedicated to training the next generation to build a pool of talent equipped ● For Year 2020, we provided a total of 3 with relevant skills to combat climate change internships. PLANET Energy ● RPRE’s mission is to help off-grid commercial ● RPRE has installed a total Solar PV capacity of and industrial clients (i.e. businesses and 536 kWp since inception in Year 2017. communities) transition from dirty to clean and affordable energy ● RPRE has installed a total energy storage capacity of 748 kWh since inception in Year 2017. RPRE Integrated Sustainability Report 2020 12 Emissions ● RPRE is committed to reducing carbon ● RPRE has avoided 199 tons of carbon emissions and harmful air pollutants, both emissions through our projects since inception within its facilities and beyond that by building in Year 2017. systems that help others transition to using renewable energy ● RPRE has generated 565 MWh of green energy through our projects since inception in Year 2017. Responsible Supply Chain And ● RPRE partners with high quality and ● To ensure our supply chain partners share the Sourcing (includes materials and environmentally-aware suppliers who consider same vision for being environmentally-aware, supplier environmental assessment) their products at the end of their life cycle and we do our best effort to engage and spread make arrangements to recycle or reuse them awareness for end of life cycle arrangements when onboarding and engaging suppliers as partners. Water ● RPRE strives to use as less and conserve as ● Environmental awareness guideline in our much water resources as possible employee handbook serves as a guide to employees to conserve water whenever possible. The employee handbook is a must-read during onboarding for all new employees. Biodiversity ● In wherever it operates, RPRE will do its utmost ● At project sites, it is documented in to minimise its impact on the environment and Operational manual that we will strive to surrounding biodiversity. This includes its minimise the cutting of any trees for the offices, project sites, and all other places where installation of the solar PV system. RPRE is involved ● Since inception in Year 2017, we have felled 18 trees and in return have re-planted 180 trees by partnering with another B Corp certified company EcoMatcher. RPRE Integrated Sustainability Report 2020 13 ● To reduce our carbon footprint, RPRE’s Singapore office is located in Level3, Mapletree Business City (MBC). The building is not only Certified Green Mark Platinum by the Building and Construction Authority of Singapore, it is also awarded with the international Green GOOD DESIGN; an award which recognises lead industry players’ efforts towards the conservation of the environment. Waste ● RPRE commits to using a minimal amount of ● Waste management policy in the employee resources for its activities and in turn, produce handbook provides guidance for employees in as little waste as possible their waste management. These include, no printing policy, recycling of waste, etc. The employee handbook is part of the onboarding reading materials for new employees. PROFIT Economic Contribution to Society ● RPRE abides by national laws and regulations ● Employees’ entitlement to national pension (includes economic performance, that serve to protect workers. It remains dutiful schemes as well as minimum wage policy are market presence, and indirect to legal obligations regarding minimum wages formally documented in employee handbook economic impact) and social security savings plans, to give back to and communicated to new employees during its employees for their contributions to RPRE onboarding. RPRE Integrated Sustainability Report 2020 14 Procurement Practices ● Regarding projects based in Indonesia, RPRE ● For all projects in Indonesia, 50% of supports local populations by sourcing at least procurement needs are sourced from local half of the products and/ or services it needs produced and/or services. from suppliers based in the region Sustainable Finance ● RPRE partners with impact investors to mobilise ● RPRE successfully launched its first private financial resources towards climate change issue of a Mini Green Bond for a solar PV and energy storage solution (ESS) at Gangga Island Resort & Spa in the northern Sulawesi region of Manado, Indonesia. ● The 4-year Mini Green Bond issuance yielding an IRR of 12.7%, unlocks a total of USD300,000. It was done via private placement and co-invested by a Family Office (Octava Impact Investments Pte Ltd), and an individual impact investor. ● Link : ​RPRE issues 1st Mini Green Bond RPRE Integrated Sustainability Report 2020 15 GOVERNANCE Anti-corruption ● Corruption is a serious offence to RPRE’s ● Rules regarding corruption are clearly stated in integrity as a business the employee handbook. ● RPRE has ZERO tolerance on any acts of corruption Business Ethics And Compliance ● RPRE strongly believes in fair and honest ● Policy guiding taxes both on a company level as (includes anti-competitive business practices, and strictly adheres to the well as on employee level are formally behaviour, tax, environmental, and law regarding competition, tax, the documented in employee handbook. socioeconomic compliance) environment, and the socioeconomic domain RPRE Integrated Sustainability Report 2020 16 STAKEHOLDER DESCRIPTIONS & SIGNIFICANCE RPRE operates within an ecosystem of many different stakeholders, in which key stakeholders are those whose activities have a profound impact on RPRE’s performance and vice versa. For RPRE to carry out its mission to help people transition from dirty to clean energy optimally and sustainably, it is imperative that it understands stakeholder concerns and manages them effectively. Most importantly, RPRE believes strongly in the spirit of collaboration and that partnership is essential to achieve its vision to make the planet a better place and leave that for future generations. RPRE is unable to fulfil such a tall order by working alone and must cooperate with the following stakeholders in a concerted effort to achieve the above. Customers investors, are critical stakeholders. RPRE seeks to improve its business wherever applicable to drive stellar performance both financially and Delivering RPRE’s obligation towards customers of high-quality service, sustainably, maximising shareholder value. and ensuring their safety and well-being is crucial to uphold the company’s reputation and long-term survival. Government & Regulators Employees The Government and regulators of the renewable energy sector where RPRE works within defines our business climate. It is pivotal that RPRE RPRE has a responsibility to make sure that it provides a safe and adapts and adheres to changes in regulations be it in a positive or healthy work environment for employees hence. Following globally negative impact towards the company.. acceptable standards, RPRE strives to ensure occupational safety and well-being, good relationships between labour and management, Media respect for diversity and inclusion in the workplace. As a growing business entity, the portrayal of RPRE in the media is Suppliers & Manufacturers again critical to its reputation and survival. RPRE aims to build good relationships within this community hence, Community & other Ecosystem Partners cooperate to enhance the role of renewable energy to combat climate change and global warming, and fulfil its mission. Suppliers are RPRE believes that businesses can be a force for good, and its screened for labour practices, upholding of human rights in the performance predicates on its social and environmental impact in workplace, and corruption to make sure that their values align with addition to its revenue or profits. Besides generating a positive impact those of RPRE’s. on the environment with renewable energy, RPRE is committed to working with organisations like social service agencies to produce a Investors substantial impact on the community. As RPRE needs financial capital to sustain its operations in the short term and survive in the long run, investors and specifically impact RPRE Integrated Sustainability Report 2020 17 IDENTIFYING ISSUES MATERIAL TO STAKEHOLDERS For RPRE to perform optimally, it is vital that it identifies which issues and concerns are most material to every stakeholder group and responds to each of them accordingly. It is crucial then, that RPRE engages every type of stakeholder regularly, and finds the most effective ways to do so and understand stakeholders’ needs. The table below lists the different stakeholder groups RPRE finds most relevant to its business as above, the platforms RPRE has used to engage them, and the issues and concerns RPRE finds each group has. Table 2 Stakeholder Groups, Engagement Platforms, & Issues and Concerns Stakeholder Engagement Platforms Issues and Concerns Groups Customers ● Emails ● Customer service and experience ● Social media platforms ● Ethical marketing practices ● Advertisements ● Feasibility of projects ● Solar checklist questionnaire on corporate website ● Safety of system installed ● In-person and digital meetings ● Maintenance ● Smart meters and energy monitoring and defects tracking ● Monitoring of energy produced/consumed apps ● Competitive pricing and payback period ● Post-project feedback survey ● Recycling of materials at the end of product life ● Instant messaging for customer service Employees ● Regular dialogue sessions and bilaterals with top ● Corporate direction and growth plans management ● Job security ● Regular staff engagement surveys ● Remuneration and benefits ● Provide company-wide updates via Monday.com ● Career development and training opportunities ● Frequent team building exercises and employee activities ● Workplace safety and health ● Labour practices ● Human rights ● Work-life balance ● Non-discrimination and social inclusion RPRE Integrated Sustainability Report 2020 18 Suppliers & ● RPRE Supplier Code of Conduct ● Legal compliance Manufacturers ● Supplier screenings (People, Planet, Profit), meetings, and ● Quality and design evaluations ● Workers safety and health ● Declaration of EHS commitment through letter and ● Productivity pledge-signing ● Labour practices and welfare ● Human rights ● Resource efficiency and management Investors ● Emails ● Growth strategies ● Social media platforms ● Market diversification ● Corporate website ● Corporate governance ● Annual newsletters ● Sustainability performance ● Media releases and interviews ● Impact metrics (e.g. meeting GRI standards and SDGs) ● Sustainability reports (i.e. B-Corp assessment) ● Financial performance ● Public speaking and networking events ● Reporting standards ● In-person and digital meetings ● Referrals ● Board meetings Government & ● Emails ● Promoting sustainability and driving climate action in Regulators ● Media releases and interviews Singapore ● Sustainability reports (i.e. B-Corp assessment) ● Regulatory development towards a low-carbon economy ● Public speaking and networking events ● Promoting workplace health and safety ● Partnerships with governmental bodies (e.g. SG Enable) ● Promoting good labour practices and welfare ● Human rights Media ● Media releases and interviews ● Growth strategies ● Social media platforms ● Sustainability performance ● Corporate website ● Impact metrics (e.g. meeting GRI standards and SDGs) ● Public speaking and networking events ● Financial performance ● Reporting standards Community & ● Emails ● Growth strategies other ● Social media platforms ● Advocacy for sustainability and the climate Ecosystem ● Corporate website ● Social and environmental impact ● Annual newsletters ● Impact metrics (e.g. meeting GRI standards and SDGs) RPRE Integrated Sustainability Report 2020 19 Partners ● Media releases and interviews ● Sustainability reports (i.e. B-Corp assessment) ● Public speaking and networking events ● In-person and digital meetings ● Referrals ● Board meetings ● Memberships with partners such as social service agencies and other organisations (e.g. raiSE Social Enterprise, Enterprise SG, Workforce SG) RPRE Integrated Sustainability Report 2020 20 PEOPLE People is the first of the three pillars in our 3 Ps (i.e. People, Planet, Profit) strategy of which drives RPRE forward. They are the stakeholders that are related to RPRE in any way. Along with it comes a range of material issues that RPRE seeks to address consistently. OCCUPATIONAL HEALTH, SAFETY AND WELL-BEING Human capital is crucial to RPRE, and every employee is valued highly those of the Australian Clean Energy Council to ensure its safety and for their contributions to RPRE’s mission. Providing workers with a safe quality. and healthy work environment is RPRE’s responsibility and a critical material issue hence. RPRE tracks incidents of any kind with an incident reporting form, after which an assessment will be made and any possible areas of As required by law wherever it operates, RPRE has an occupational improvement will be identified. Employees are also required to report health and safety management system in place. RPRE strives to ensure any work-related hazards and risks observed or encountered to their the health and safety of every employee in its workplace by following managers and CEO immediately. They are also to provide the the Quality, Health, Safety, Environment (QHSE) policy and maintaining implication(s), make a recommendation(s) and proposal(s) to resolve a stance of zero tolerance for workplace accidents of any kind. The the issue. ​There have been zero incidents leading to hospitalisation for workplace includes but is not limited to the actual work site. It also either work-related injuries or ill-health since inception in Year 2017. comprises RPRE organised activities like training sessions, off-site meetings, work-related social gatherings or any other location where RPRE is also dedicated to supporting workers’ health and provides an employee is engaged in activities associated with employment. access to benefits such as health insurance wherever applicable. In Safety is also one of RPRE’s core values, and employees are constantly Indonesia, RPRE is required by the law to purchase BPJS reminded to practice safety where and when they work at all times Ketenagakerjaan or Manpower Insurance for Indonesian staff in the even without supervision. region, which includes Jaminan Kecelakaan Kerja (JKK) or the Workplace Accident Insurance in English, and Jaminan Kematian (JKM) or Death Before installing any project, RPRE requires that its employees Assurance (Indo-Ned). The table below describes the type of insurance complete a site risk assessment checklist and introduces measures to RPRE purchases for each employee type. Should an employee suffer mitigate the risks identified. RPRE has an operation manual detailing from any non-work-related medical condition, RPRE will bear the cost best practices and project guidelines for all employees. It cannot be of treatment as well. RPRE is also committed to strengthening the stressed enough that employees are aware of these practices (i.e. prevention and treatment of smoking and substance abuse, including workplace safety and health and system installation) before and during the harmful consumption of alcohol. the installation of any project. After installation, RPRE requires its employees to follow testing and commissioning guidelines based on RPRE Integrated Sustainability Report 2020 21 Table 3 Roles & Types of Insurance Coverage Roles/ Type of Coverage Health Insurance GP Insurance Group Accident Insurance Workplace Accident Insurance Engineers Singaporean Yes Private Yes Private Yes Private N/A Engineers Indonesian Yes Private Yes Private N/A Yes Public Office-Desk Roles Yes Yes No No Singaporean Office-Desk Roles Yes Yes No No Refugee In light of the COVID19 pandemic and line with RPRE’s core value Safety, employees were advised to Work From Home (WFH) to prevent the spread of COVID19 as well as to play a part in ensuring community safety through social distancing. Employees were also encouraged to meet clients online instead of conducting physical meetings where possible. ● RPRE recorded zero incidents leading to the need for hospitalisation for work-related​ injuries​ since inception in Year 2017 ● RPRE recorded zero incidents leading to the need for hospitalisation for work-related ​ill-health​ since inception in Year 2017 Credit Skyclick for Icon, www.flaticon.com RPRE Integrated Sustainability Report 2020 22 LABOUR CONDITIONS Human capital forms the heartbeat of RPRE. Hence, taking care of employee’s work conditions is integral for RRRE. RPRE aims to be an Employer of Choice; issues such as labour conditions, the relationship between labour and management, diversity and inclusion, and non-discrimination in the workplace are of utmost importance. Employment Regarding labour conditions, RPRE strives to improve staff welfare, and RPRE provides parental leave (i.e. maternity, paternity, and statutory benefits such as opportunities to work flexibly are given in childcare leave) according to the law where it operates and in consideration of employees’ needs. Most benefits are provided to consideration of the needs of each employee. full-time staff upon completing their probationary period. In Year 2009, in light of Covid-19, to protect employees’ safety and All employees are eligible for health care benefits through RPRE or wellness, RPRE’s employees (where possible) started Working from government plans. RPRE provides health insurance for its Indonesian home in April 2020. employees and their families. RPRE contributes a portion of the employer's CPF to every Singaporean employee’s Medisave account To ensure our value chain stakeholders provide suitable labour monthly, the amount can be used to purchase private insurance and conditions, suppliers are screened at onboarding. pay for medical bills and medicines from approved clinics and hospitals. RPRE also buys travel insurance for employees required to go on business trips. ● 20% of the staff are entitled to and have taken parental leave ● 100% of staff who took parental leave returned to work after taking parental leave ● RPRE has not identified any incidents of poor labour conditions in the screening of our suppliers since inception in Year 2017 Labour and Management Relations Teamwork is a core value in RPRE, and communication is key in acting understanding and fosters a safe and conducive environment for on that value and resolving any problems. As part of the RPRE’s collaboration, where everyone is comfortable with sharing and onboarding process, ​rules-of-engagement guidelines are communicating ideas and feedback (Klemp). communicated to employees to ensure that they understand and familiarise themselves with the values that govern behaviours. ​The As RPRE is a small but nimble organisation, information is relayed awareness of these guidelines in turn facilitates a common quickly and efficiently between employers and employees. Employees RPRE Integrated Sustainability Report 2020 23 are also often engaged and are encouraged to speak up. Employees RPRE also adopts a neutral stance regarding unionisation and collective meet with the CEO to review their performance and discuss any bargaining, employees have the right to bargain collectively and feedback they might have monthly. freedom of association. Diversity and Equal Opportunity RPRE believes that when different people with diverse backgrounds empowering persons with disabilities, and advocates hiring them for all and cultures come together, it provides a healthier workplace and available positions where possible. RPRE is proud to have been brings along with it creativity and innovation. Hence, diversity is a awarded the SG Enable Certificate of Appreciation for inclusive hiring. critical issue, and RPRE remains committed to attracting and retaining RPRE continues to provide employment to one PWD. ​RPRE is also individuals with different backgrounds, abilities and experiences. To proud to declare that it supports the hiring of refugees, ​and has hired measure the diversity of its workforce, RPRE tracks the following one refugee​ who is currently interning at RPRE’s office in Jakarta. attributes; race or ethnicity, gender, and age of employees. ​In all job postings, RPRE states its commitment to diversity, equality and RPRE also reviews its employees’ remuneration annually, whereby inclusion. ​27% of RPRE’s current employees are women, and RPRE remuneration is determined fairly by factors such as work looks forward to achieving a target of 33% within the next year. RPRE performance, level of responsibilities, and experience. also partners with SG Enable that is an organisation dedicated to ● 27% of RPRE’s employees are women, RPRE looks forward to achieving a target of 33% by Year 2021 ● RPRE continues to provide employment to one PWD ● RPRE continues to provide employment for one refugee RPRE Integrated Sustainability Report 2020 24 Non-discrimination Following the above on diversity, RPRE also reinforces a workplace and RPRE ensures that all complaints regarding harassments and climate that is inclusive and free of discrimination and harassment. discrimination are dealt with impartiality, confidentiality, without RPRE will not tolerate any acts of discrimination, harassment and repercussion, and timeliness. ​There have been no incidents of bullying based on any grounds such as race, religion, sexual discrimination since inception in Year 2017. orientation, and disability. There is a grievance procedure established, RPRE has not identified any incidents of discrimination since inception in Year 2017 HUMAN RIGHTS RPRE adheres to the United Nations Universal Declaration of Human entitled to retain their customs and institutions as well as Rights and Ten Principles of the United Nations Global Compact. RPRE self-determination. According to GRI 411 Rights of Indinegous Peoples will uphold respect for human rights in the workplace and firmly follow (2016) and the United Nations Declaration on the Rights of Indigenous labour laws in countries where it operates. RPRE will also not condone Peoples, “the right to self-determination enables indigenous peoples to the use of child or forced labour. Suppliers are also screened to check “freely determine their political status and freely pursue their for their working conditions and ensure they comply with a globally economic, social and cultural development” and have the right to acceptable standard. ​RPRE has not identified any incidents of child or “autonomy or self-government in matters relating to their internal and forced labour in neither its nor its suppliers’ operations since inception local affairs, as well as ways and means for financing their autonomous in Year 2017. functions.” ​RPRE has not identified any incidents of violations involving the rights of indigenous peoples since inception in Year 2017. RPRE also recognises the rights of indigenous peoples, and they are RPRE has not identified any incidents of c ​ hild​ labour in neither its nor its suppliers’ operations since inception in Year 2017 RPRE has not identified any incidents of f​ orced​ labour in neither its nor its suppliers’ operations since inception in Year 2017 RPRE has not identified any incidents of violations involving the rights of indigenous peoples since inception in Year 2017 RPRE Integrated Sustainability Report 2020 25 PRODUCT SAFETY AND CUSTOMER WELL-BEING Customers are integral to RPRE’s mission and vision. RPRE strives to There have not been any non-compliance with regulations and ensure each client receives the best possible service and guarantee voluntary codes concerning the health and safety impacts of the customer safety and well-being. In securing the aforementioned, RPRE products and services it distributes. RPRE has also not identified any ensures that every project is certified by a licensed electrical worker non-compliance with regulations and voluntary codes concerning the and that the equipment to be installed is sourced from a credible marketing communications of its products and services since inception supplier before final commission. Services like guarantees, warranties, in Year 2017. and protection policies are also being provided to clients, and feedback or complaint mechanisms have been established to engage them. RPRE has not identified any non-compliance with regulations and voluntary codes concerning the ​health and safety impacts of the products and services it distributes since inception in Year 2017 RPRE has not identified any non-compliance with regulations and voluntary codes concerning the ​marketing communications​ of its products and services since inception in Year 2017 CYBERSECURITY AND DATA GOVERNANCE The reputation and hence the survival of RPRE in the long term hinges internal use only, c) confidential, d) strictly confidential, e) secret. on fulfilling its obligations to clients. RPRE is also required by legal and regulatory compliance requirements applicable in whichever country it RPRE also has a designated Data Protection Officer (DPO) whose operates in to safeguard its data. Therefore, the integrity of data responsibility is to ensure all sensitive information is stored in a collected from customers, and the security of such classified secured drive and that only authorised personnel can access it. RPRE information is of paramount importance at RPRE. will discontinue old practices of requesting for National Registration Identity Card (NRICs) numbers from vendors, suppliers or any other RPRE takes a systematic approach to protect customer privacy and stakeholder for work related matters. RPRE adopts the best practices as data. The security and integrity of its computer systems are maintained guided by the Personal Data Protection Commission in Singapore. by ensuring strict control of access to its data and programs to prevent accidental or intentional damage or breach of confidentiality. RPRE also expects its employees to use the internet responsibly. Information is protected, managed, and destroyed where appropriate, Electronic mail, chat and text messages may not be misused such that and data is classified into the following, a) generally accessible, b) it jeopardises RPRE’s reputation or ability to fulfil its legal and regulatory obligations. RPRE requires that all documents, data, manuals RPRE Integrated Sustainability Report 2020 26 and other materials (whether in hard or electronic form) either returned or surrendered upon termination or retirement. prepared, received, or accessed by employees during employment, be RPRE has not identified any substantiated complaints concerning leaks, thefts, or losses of customer data since inception in Year 2017 LOCAL COMMUNITIES RPRE believes that businesses can be a force for good and is committed community or pro-bono service, advocacy for adopting improved social to generating both positive social and environmental impacts. Besides or environmental policies or performance, and partnerships with providing cleaner energy as the crux of RPRE’s business model, RPRE charitable organisations and social service agencies. ​RPRE contributed also seeks to engage local communities and social service organisations >2% of its revenue to community investments. to further our social impact. For example, RPRE does project-based hiring to increase income and training opportunities for local workers. Paid time community service leave is provided to RPRE employees to RPRE hired a total of 15 such employees since inception. volunteer outside of work. RPRE takes part in civic engagement as well, in various forms like RPRE hired a total of 15 employees from local communities RPRE contributed >2% of its revenue to community investments RPRE Integrated Sustainability Report 2020 27 TALENT ATTRACTION, RETENTION AND DEVELOPMENT In addition to the material issues of welfare and human rights, ​RPRE responsibilities, and training on life skills for personal development. understands that education and training are critical to develop its The total number of training hours stands at a total of 1,486 hours employees’ skill sets and enhance its human capital. ​RPRE aims to since inception in Year 2017. For Year 2020, the total numbers of develop the potential of all employees and promote them whenever training hours stands at 664 hours. suitable. RPRE provides financial support to employees taking educational Encouraging employees to learn and develop continuously, RPRE is programs based on the relevance to their jobs and benefit to their dedicated to providing all its employees with opportunities to enhance careers. their capabilities, knowledge and skills so that they may take on new and challenging responsibilities. Such opportunities refer to on-the-job RPRE also has a process set up for regular performance appraisal training, formal seminars, and job rotations. Since inception in Year between the employee and CEO monthly, where opportunities for 2017,, every full-time and part-time worker received training to advance promotion and career development may arise and be discussed. core job responsibilities, training on cross-job functions beyond regular RPRE employees have recorded a total of 1486 training hours since inception in Year 2017 RPRE employees have regularly performance review with their direct manager and/or CEO RPRE Integrated Sustainability Report 2020 28 PLANET On 12 December 2015, parties of the United Nations Framework and its environmental impact is an essential part of business Convention on Climate Change (UNFCCC) adopted a landmark operations, as it represents the efficiency, the transparency and agreement on climate change in Paris. Dubbed as The Paris Agreement, effectiveness of RPRE’s services. the agreement reaffirms the long-term global goal of keeping global warming well below 2​o​C above pre-industrial levels, and urges parties RPRE has put in place a comprehensive set of guidelines, processes and to pursue efforts towards a more ambitious 1.5​o​C threshold. The Paris systems to guide and measure its efforts in environmental protection Agreement came into force on 4 November 2016. Singapore is a and conservation. RPRE’s main goal is to reduce global dependency on signatory to the Paris Agreement, and has set ambitious targets under non-renewable energy sources and reducing carbon emissions in the our 2030 pledge to help combat the imminent threat of climate change. long run, and this highlights the material issues RPRE focuses on (i.e. energy, emissions, environmental impact of supply chains, water, In line with Singapore’s mission as well as our vision, to leave a better biodiversity, and waste). planet behind for future generations, RPRE incorporates environmental sustainability in its life cycle management at all stages of a project from RPRE also understands how it needs to commit to minimising its supplier sourcing, distribution, procurement and construction. The environmental impact. Policies and guidelines have been set in place to monitoring of clean energy produced from RPRE’s installed systems reduce any direct and indirect negative environmental damage ENERGY RPRE’s Singapore office is situated in Mapletree Business City I, which managed by a company that believes in and commits to tackling those has been conferred the Building and Construction Authority (BCA) issues. Green Mark Platinum Award. The award is the highest accolade in rewarding organisations committed to “shaping a safe, high quality, Mapletree has a Property Management (PM) department that monitors sustainable and friendly environment built environment,” as stipulated the consumption of utilities across all the infrastructure it manages. by BCA’s mission. The managing Group for the building, Mapletree The department also seeks to identify opportunities to improve energy Investments Pte Ltd, or Mapletree, is a real estate, investment, capital efficiency. Energy consumption data for offices and retail buildings in and property management company headquartered in Singapore. They Singapore is submitted to the BCA annually. However, RPRE shares the employ sustainable design principles in the properties they manage, office space with other businesses also based at Mapletree. Specific including minimising non-renewable energy consumption, use of information regarding RPRE’s energy consumption within Mapletree environmentally friendly products, and continually optimising from non-renewable and renewable energy sources, for electricity use, operational and maintenance practices. Partnerships are vital to heating, cooling, or steam, is unclear and will not be disclosed. Be that combating colossal issues like climate change and sustainable as it may, Mapletree’s commitment to pursuing energy efficiency and development, and RPRE is proud to be based in an environment saving energy, and it doing so with initiatives like installing highly RPRE Integrated Sustainability Report 2020 29 energy-efficient Air Handling Units (AHUs) and lights, can be said to be Bringing back RPRE’s renewable energy products and services into yielding results. According to its 2019 Sustainability Report, energy question, there is potential for solar panels and batteries to generate consumption and energy intensity (i.e. energy consumption measured and store more energy instead of it being used. They also help reduce per m^2) in several Mapletree buildings saw substantial decreases over pollution like that of air pollution caused by the use of burning fossil the past three years. By using Mapletree's facilities, RPRE is a part of fuels. Drawing up and implementing renewable energy solutions is the this concerted effort towards saving energy and in that, reducing crux of RPRE as a business and, as RPRE helps clients transition to using emissions as well. RPRE will also see to it that it uses only the energy it solar energy, RPRE hopes to save and at the same time generate as needs, not only in its headquarters in Singapore but also all its other much energy as possible sustainably. Since inception in Year 2017, workplaces (e.g. offices based in Indonesia and project sites). these transitions into renewable energy projects with clients has generated a total of 565MWh of green energy which was consumed by Employees were advised and encouraged to WFH during the COVID19 the clients. pandemic as well as to meet clients online instead of conducting physical meetings where possible. With the reduction in commute overall, RPRE reduced its carbon footprint during the period. RPRE’s projects has generated a total of 565MWh green energy since inception in Year 2017 RPRE Integrated Sustainability Report 2020 30 EMISSIONS GHG emissions are closely related to energy use, and all GHG As RPRE helps clients to transition from dirtier forms of energy (e.g. emissions from RPRE’s Singapore office at Mapletree Business City I are diesel fuel) to clean renewable energy, GHG emissions such as those of Scope 2 emissions, meaning they are a result of the generation and use Nitrogen Oxides (NOx), Carbon Monoxide (CO) (Generator Source), and of purchased electricity (Mapletree). Mapletree is aware of the above, others are saved from being released into the atmosphere. Through as well as of the fact that increased energy efficiency can help to reduce our projects, ​RPRE avoided a total of 199 tons of carbon emissions such emissions and seeks to improve energy efficiency in their since inception in Year 2017. buildings. With the initiatives mentioned, there have been results, and GHG emissions from electricity use have decreased in the last three years. Similar to energy consumption, RPRE’s exact GHG emissions cannot be traced. However, RPRE will also strive to keep its share of emissions low as per our commitment to using energy minimally. RPRE has avoided 199 tons of carbon emissions since inception in Year 2017. RESPONSIBLE SUPPLY CHAIN AND SOURCING Materials Resources are scarce, and following our vision to leave behind a better release of emissions into the atmosphere, that contribute to climate planet for future generations, RPRE recognises the importance of change can be prevented as such. For example, RPRE works with REC conserving as many materials as possible. As RPRE partners with Solar, a solar energy contractor and panel manufacturer that has a suppliers for a range of products (i.e. solar panels, inverters, and detailed plan as to how to recycle solar panels. REC’s plan entails batteries) RPRE on a best effort basis, place preference over suppliers breaking down the panels into separate parts according to their who engage and encourage end-of-life-cycle recycling programs for the material compositions, and glass, aluminium frames, silicon from the different parts. When the above is achieved, materials used to make PV cells, copper from the cables, and plastics are carefully processed the various components can be converted into secondary raw materials and repurposed for other uses (REC). for reuse. The act of extracting new primary resources, and the further RPRE Integrated Sustainability Report 2020 31 Suppliers Environmental Assessment As RPRE partners with suppliers for a range of products (i.e. solar In the supply chain, RPRE perceives the easy discard of solar equipment panels, inverters, and batteries), RPRE has environmental criteria for all at the end of their useful life and contribution to waste as the most its suppliers in place to assess them for any environmental impact they significant actual and potential negative environmental impact. RPRE may have. Since inception in Year 2017, ​none of RPRE’s suppliers has strives to engage high-quality suppliers who bring into consideration been identified to have significant actual and potential negative their products at their end-of-life-cycle and cooperate to manage this environmental impacts. problem. RPRE communicates to our suppliers of the importance to have end-of-life-cycle recycling programs for their products RPRE has environmental criteria for its suppliers onboarding process to assess them for any impact they may have on the environment RPRE has identified zero suppliers (to the best of RPRE’s knowledge and assessment) that have significant actual and potential negative impacts WATER Clean water is scarce and indispensable. RPRE also recognises that the buildings have consumed less water and that water intensity (i.e. water access to clean water and sanitation is a human right, hence how water consumed in m3 per m2 ) has also decreased overall. RPRE indirectly is used and saved is an important material issue to RPRE. Following the benefits from these actions taken by Mapletree in conserving water above on energy, the water supply and system in RPRE’s head office is and is pleased to be able to be located in a Mapletree building. Despite also managed by Mapletree. The water in Mapletree Business City I is the above, RPRE remains accountable for the number of water mainly provided by the Public Utilities Board (PUB). resources it uses and is mindful to use only the amount of water it needs for its operations. RPRE repeatedly emphasises environmental Mapletree’s PM department monitors water consumption, and the data awareness among its employees. Employees are expected to use water is reported to the Public Utilities Board (PUB) as required by the Water resources responsibly and efficiently. Efficiency Management Plan. Despite that, figures specific to RPRE’s water consumption is also unspecified and not disclosed in this report. Solar panels need to be maintained and cleaned over their useful life. Meanwhile, the PM department also seeks to improve water efficiency Usually, rainwater is sufficient to clean them and no additional water is in its buildings. There have been measures taken by Mapletree to save needed for this process. Since rainwater will suffice over the long term, water, including establishing water cooling towers with proper water clean water is saved and conserved for other purposes. Otherwise, they treatment, collection of condensates from AHUs and rainwater, the use need to be washed, in which RPRE can expect the majority of clients to of water-efficient fittings, and the increasing use of recycled water use just enough water to clean. (Mapletree). Similar to energy, Mapletree reported that several of its RPRE Integrated Sustainability Report 2020 32 In encouraging environmental awareness among users of Mapletree new hires to encourage their use in the office. RPRE supports these spaces, there are initiatives such as “Mapletree Goes Green” in place as initiatives strongly, and strives to consume materials, energy, and water well. Under this initiative, Mapletree reminds employees to print on only when needed, and save such resources wherever possible within both sides of the paper (Mapletree). It has also phased out the use of the office space. plastic bottled water, to which RPRE provides reusable ones for all its BIODIVERSITY RPRE’s operations do not contribute to the poaching and trafficking of protected species. However, RPRE strives to preserve the biodiversity of all its workplaces as well as the areas surrounding it. This is done by properly locating the area that would provide the most sun exposure while minimizing the land space needed to be redeveloped. RPRE would, as much as possible, install in an unused clear landscape. If any trees are to be cut down to create additional space, RPRE is committed to replanting additional trees to minimize any biodiversity impact towards the area. RPRE fell 18 trees but replanted 180 trees in Year 2019 Given that RPRE’ mission is to help commercial and industrial clients in remote off-grid locations, RPRE often faces such clients that operate on diesel. The substitution of diesel with clean solar energy helps in reducing any pollution during diesel transport. Toxic fuel leaks may flow into seawater, poisoning local marine. Businesses, especially those in the sea resort industry, may be highly affected, further showing the importance of having stable clean energy that poses fewer risks towards the surrounding biodiversity. Mitigating Climate Change Risks And Identifying Opportunities Through Design Climate change has resulted in negative impacts on the environment, Each project is studied individually in detail and appropriate measures from rising sea levels, storms, heatwaves, and many more. RPRE helps are taken in consideration of climate change. This ensures that the new businesses to have a cleaner and more sustainable source of energy systems to be installed are future proof and reduce environmental and future-proof themselves from additional unforeseen climate impacts as much as possible. change risks. RPRE Integrated Sustainability Report 2020 33 Environmental Impact Assessment (EIA) A key component of RPRE’s operations is the mandatory Environmental The EIA report for the Mini Green Bond is also prepared semi-annually Impact Assessment (EIA). An EIA would be carried out throughout any and reported to investors for the whole tenure of the bond. Link : project, estimating impacts on carbon emissions, biodiversity and the RPRE mini green bond June 2020 report green energy to be created. WASTE Mapletree has stated their commitment to managing the waste batteries and cables (e.g. plastic wrap and cardboard) have a high generated at the properties they manage. Currently, the collection and possibility of being thrown away after installation, and ending up as disposal of waste are carried out by licensed contractors from the waste. Although still far ahead in the future, solar energy equipment National Environmental Agency (NEA) (Mapletree). RPRE is confident can also be easily directed to disposal at the end of their useful life that Mapletree will come up with innovative ways to better manage without considering that they can be dismantled into recyclable parts. waste at where RPRE’s head office resides. Likewise, RPRE’s waste is In response to these potential avenues for waste generation, RPRE will unable to be quantified. However, RPRE strives to minimise the waste it partner with communities, and make for better arrangements as to generates. Within the office environment, RPRE has taken heed to use how these waste can be better handled. Bringing back a point on as few and save as many resources as possible. materials, RPRE will try its best ensure that its solar energy system parts will be recycled correctly by being prepared to work with Beyond the office, RPRE is aware that the renewable energy systems it suppliers and clients. sets up and installs for clients can potentially generate waste. For example, packaging material to protect the solar panels, inverters, or ● RPRE strives to prevent as much waste as it can by using just a sufficient amount of resources in its operations RPRE Integrated Sustainability Report 2020 34 PROFIT Profit is the last of the 3 Ps. RPRE is ultimately a business and remains aware that many factors can impact its financial performance. RPRE identifies climate change at the forefront of those defining factors and evaluates the potential risks and opportunities that arise with that here. RPRE also believes in giving back to society economically and does so by contributing to employees’ social security savings plans, purchasing from local suppliers, and engaging in sustainable finance. RPRE considers all these issues as critically material. ECONOMIC CONTRIBUTION TO SOCIETY Economic Performance Risks and Opportunities due to Climate Change and Financial Implications The World Economic Forum Global Risks Report (2019) cited increase in revenue. There would be a rise in cost, assuming that RPRE environmental risks (e.g. extreme weather events, natural disasters, would incur more expenses from, for example, hiring more human and biodiversity loss and ecosystem collapse) to be among the top risks capital or renting more office space. Revenue and cost incurred are in terms of likelihood and impact. They are directly related to climate recorded in a timely manner by RPRE’s Finance Manger. Nevertheless, change, to which the failure of climate change mitigation and RPRE can also look to raise financial capital more easily and generate adaptation is also a risk in itself. There must be action taken to address increasing profits in expanding its operations. climate change and the risks it poses. ​Examples of mitigative and adaptive actions include the elimination of coal plant financing and To prepare for any potential carbon taxes in the future, RPRE is implementation of carbon taxes. exploring ways to track our carbon footprint. In engaging fellow stakeholders with the spirit of partnership, RPRE also works closely with These actions present abundant opportunities for RPRE where it can Global Compact Network Singapore (GCNS). RPRE provides feedback expect more demand for renewable energy and its services, and hence and suggestions on GNCS’ Responsibility Index Communicator for Enterprises (RICE) tools to help more businesses track and understand their sustainability efforts and metrics (GCNS). RPRE Integrated Sustainability Report 2020 35 Plan Obligations RPRE is obligated to contribute to employees’ savings accounts to prepare employees for retirement. Singapore and Indonesia have different savings plans that are deployed on a national scale. Singapore RPRE is guided by the Central Provident Fund Scheme (CPF), which is Singapore’s national social security savings system, and contributes the required % of salary as stipulated by CPF board. Under the CPF scheme in Singapore, both employer and employee contribute a portion of their salaries to the employee’s savings account. Up to when an employee reaches 55 years old, employers and employees contribute 17% and 20% of their monthly salaries respectively. When the employee is between 55 to 60 years of age, both the employer and employee contribute 13% of their salaries. The percentage of contributions made are further lowered to 9% and 7.5% when the employee reaches 60 to 65 years of age, and finally decrease to 7.5% and 5% when the employee is 65 years of age and above. Table 4 CPF Contribution Rates by Employers and Employees in Singapore Age of Employee CPF Contribution by Employer CPF Contribution by Employee Total CPF Contribution Rate Up to 55 Years Old 17% 20% 37% 55 to 60 Years Old 13% 13% 26% 60 to 65 Years Old 9% 7.5% 16.5% Above 65 Years Old 7.5% 5% 12.5% RPRE Integrated Sustainability Report 2020 36 Indonesia As it is in Singapore, Indonesia also has a national pension plan in place that requires PT RPRE (i.e. RPRE’s registered name in Indonesia) to make contributions to the savings accounts of Indonesian employees. The national pension scheme is part of a program administered by the Social Insurance Administration or Badan Penyelenggara Jaminan Sosial (BPJS). It is highly important to note that there are two types of BPJS, namely BPJS Kesehatan and BPJS Ketenagakerjaan, and PT RPRE is registered with social insurance programs under the latter (i.e. BPJS Ketenagakerjaan). Two of the programs PT RPRE is registered with BPJS Ketenagakerjaan involve contributing to employees’ savings accounts. They are 1) Jaminan Hari Tua (JHT) or Old Age Guarantee Program in English and 2) Jaminan Pensiun (JP) or Pension Plan in English. PT RPRE is required to register in both programs. Under JHT, on one hand, employers and employees contribute 3.7% and 2% of their monthly salaries. On the other hand, employers and employees contribute 2% and 1% of their monthly salaries under JP. Table 5 Insurance Programs & Contribution Rates by Employers and Employees Program Contribution by Employer Contribution by Employee Total Contribution Rate Jaminan Hari Tua (JHT) or Old 3.7% 2% 5.7% Age Guarantee Program Jaminan Pensiun (JP) or Pension 2% 1% 3% Plan Financial Assistance from Governments Singapore RPRE receives the following types of financial assistance from the Singaporean Government on a normal basis. They are (1) the P-Max Grant, (2) (Co-funded) Child Care Leave, (3) Wage Credit Scheme, (4) Funding for SkillsFuture Singapore, (5) SkillsFuture Study Award for Person with Disabilities, (6) Place and Train Programme, (7) Career Support Programme, (8) Special Employment Credit, and (9) the Work-Life Grant. The table below provides a summary of the various financial assistance as well as their descriptions. RPRE Integrated Sustainability Report 2020 37 Table 6 Financial Assistance received from the Singapore Government on a Normal Basis No. Financial Assistance Description 1 P-Max Grant The grant offered by Workforce Singapore provides RPRE with S$5,000 (Workforce Singapore). RPRE used it to train new employees to be work-ready in an SME. 2 (Co-funded) Child Care The Ministry of Manpower (MOM) is co-funding paid parental leave. Leave 3 Wage Credit Scheme The scheme encourages companies to increase employees’ wages, by co-funding them at 15% of the wage increase in 2020. 4 Funding for SkillsFuture The SkillsFuture Mid-Career Enhanced Subsidy is for Singaporeans aged 40 years old and above. Eligible Singapore individuals will receive subsidies of up to 90% of course fees for over 8,000 SSG-supported courses (SSG)-supported course (SkillsFuture). RPRE leveraged on this subsidy to have one of our employees attend a course on Sustainability and Sustainable Businesses in the last fiscal year. 5 SkillsFuture Study Award The Study Award provides RPRE with S$5,000 to defray out-of-pocket expenses for courses supported by SG for Person with Enable. RPRE applied for this Award with an employee who has completed an accounting course in the last Disabilities fiscal year. 6 Place and Train (PnT) “PnT programmes provide training and salary support to help rank-and-file (RnF) workers reskill to take on Programme new jobs in different sectors” (e2i Singapore) Under this program, RPRE hired and trained an employee in a secretarial course in the last fiscal year. 7 Career Support “The CSP offered by Workforce Singapore (WSG) and the Employment and Employability Institute (NTUC’s Programme (CSP) e2i) [is a salary support programme] that encourages employers to hire eligible Singapore Citizen Professionals, Managers, Executives and Technicians (PMET)” (Workforce Singapore) ​RPRE has registered for CSP and received support from the programme in contributing to an employee’s salary. RPRE Integrated Sustainability Report 2020 38 8 Special Employment SEC was introduced as part of the 2011 Budget initiatives to raise the employability of older low-wage Credit (SEC) workers. In an extension of the SEC scheme and to better support the employment of PWDs, the scheme allows employers who hire PWDs receive an SEC of up to 16% of the PWD’s monthly wage. The monthly SEC will be capped at S$240 per PWD (Special Employment Credit). As RPRE employs one PWD, RPRE receives SEC. The amount is paid twice a year, in March and September. 9 Work-Life Grant The Work-Life Grant provides companies [with] funding support to implement and sustain Flexible Work Arrangements (FWAs) for all employees, [and] create work-life harmony at the workplace (Ministry of Manpower, n.d.). As RPRE strives to be an Employer of Choice, RPRE has an FWA scheme in place to promote the above. RPRE identifies two categories of FWA (i.e. part-time working and working from home), and eligible employees are strongly encouraged to apply for FWA where applicable. ​Two out of ten employees in Singapore follow FWAs while being covered with the grant. To mitigate the effects of the economic downturn caused by COVID19, RPRE received the following additional financial assistance from the Singaporean Government, (1) Jobs Support Scheme, (2) Productivity Solutions Grant, (3) DBS Digital Business Loan, (4) Rental Relief, (5) Beneficiary Wage Support, (6) Waiver of raiSE Membership Fee. The table below provides a summary of the various financial assistance as well as their descriptions. Table 7 Financial Assistance received from the Singapore Government during the COVID19 Pandemic No. Financial Assistance Description 1 Jobs Support Scheme (JSS) The Singapore Government co-funds between 25% to 75% of the first S$4,600 of gross monthly wages paid to each employee (Inland Revenue Authority of Singapore). The payouts are automatically computed based on records of the CPF amount RPRE contributes monthly. 2 Productivity Solutions This grant subsidises the purchase of three laptops plus Microsoft Office with a cap of S$4,049.49 pre-GST. It Grant was approved by Enterprise Singapore during the COVID19 period. 3 DBS Digital Business Loan This loan is supported by Resilience Budget 2020; the interest rate is lower than that of a standard loan (DBS SME Banking, n.d.). RPRE Integrated Sustainability Report 2020 39 4 Rental Relief RPRE is headquartered in Mapletree Business City and enjoys rental relief to some extent. 5 Beneficiary Wage Support raiSE provided a one-time sum to co-fund wages with the Stay United initiative (SG United). 6 Waiver of raiSE As the government moves to waive all its fees and charges during this period, raiSE also followed up by Membership Fee waiving this year’s membership fee. Indonesia PT RPRE does not receive any form of financial assistance from the Indonesian government. RPRE Integrated Sustainability Report 2020 40 Market Presence Singapore Singapore does not have a minimum wage. Instead, it has a Progressive Wage Model (PWM) that aims to help “increase the wages of workers through upgrading skills and improving productivity” (Ministry of Manpower) However, it is also only applicable to low-wage workers in three sectors (i.e. cleaning, security, and landscape). As RPRE’s nature of business falls under the renewable energy industry, and none of the sectors mentioned, Singaporean employees are not paid based on wages subject to minimum wage rules. The Singapore government is still helping workers in other sectors to increase their wages. It does so with other initiatives like the Wage Credit Scheme in Table 6, encouraging employers to increase wages where the government co-funds them. Indonesia Indonesia adopts a minimum wage policy. Calculated by individual regional governors, the starting minimum wage amount differs for each province (Ayman, “The Minimum Wage in Indonesia”). The percentage increase of the amount is then computed based on the following formula. National Inflation + National Economic Growth = ​Percentage Increase of Minimum Wage The new minimum wage is calculated with the following hence. New Minimum Wage = Current Minimum Wage + (Current Minimum Wage x​ Percentage increase of Minimum Wage​) RPRE currently has offices in Jakarta, Bali, and Manado, starting minimum wages are determined by the regional governors of the Jakarta, Bali, and North Sulawesi provinces. RPRE Integrated Sustainability Report 2020 41 Indirect Economic Impact RPRE is a powerhouse of specialised and custom designed solutions for environment in general. They are also able to save on purchasing other a variety of renewable energy applications. Our renewable services cost-inefficient and/ or unreliable forms of dirtier energy such as diesel. include energy audits, professional Engineering, Procurement and RPRE also strives to engage the local community on project-based Construction (EPC), customised system design, customised hiring where possible. documentation such as installation and maintenance manuals, and projecting for current performance as well as post sales operational RPRE also hopes to reach out to social service organisations (Link : and maintenance services using systems based on Internet of Things Fundraise campaign to help Willing Hearts achieve long term energy (IoT). RPRE also helps clients solve their Capital Expenditure (CAPEX) cost savings​) and help them switch to using solar energy, and in turn challenges by offering suitable financing solutions for projects through channel cost away from purchasing electricity by easily harnessing our network of impact investors. power directly from the sun. RPRE is currently working with Smiling Gecko Cambodia, in which RPRE has helped to overcome the problem RPRE creates positive externalities in communities and local of an unstable energy source. economies. By helping our clients transition to using renewable energy, communities are expected to be able to enjoy cleaner air and RPRE has installed Solar PV systems with energy capacity totalling 536 kWp since inception in Year 2017 RPRE has set up energy storage systems with a total space of 748 kWh since inception in Year 2017 PROCUREMENT PRACTICES RPRE seeks to work with suppliers that are aligned with the commitment to sustainability and high-quality products. For all Indonesia-based projects, RPRE seeks to have at least 50% of products and/ or services that we need to be sourced from local suppliers. ● RPRE sourced 50% of needed products and/ or services from local suppliers RPRE Integrated Sustainability Report 2020 42 SUSTAINABLE FINANCE In the last fiscal year, RPRE successfully issued a Mini Green Bond for a non-payment, and all incoming funds from the client are received in a Solar PV and Energy Storage Solution (ESS) at Gangga Island Resort and separate RPRE bank account to be paid to the investors. Investors are Spa in Manado, Indonesia. The bond tenor will span four years from assured further with a corporate guarantee by RPRE, ​where RPRE January 2020 to December 2023 with an issue size of US$300,000. It agrees to make payment first should the client pay late or default in yields an Internal Rate of Return (IRR) of 12.7% and investors are paid a payment. Furthermore, the project is 100% insured against natural coupon of US$49,000 semi-annually. The absolute total return is disasters, fire, lightning, and civil unrest such as riots, strikes, and 30.67% or a simple interest of 7.67% per annum. The issue was done malicious damage. via private placement and was co-invested by a family office (Octava Impact Investments Pte Ltd), and an individual impact investor who It is emphasised repeatedly that RPRE believes in businesses as a force prefers to remain anonymous. The first coupon payment was for good. The Mini Green Bond is a definitive example of how it can be punctually made in July despite the economic impact caused by done with impact investing, where various stakeholders in the business COVID19. world partner to create positive social and environmental impact. RPRE will provide semi annual reports to the impact investors to update To ensure investors that they shall receive their expected returns, the them on environmental and social metrics; including the total amount bond is backed by the future cash flows of the original EPC contract of carbon emissions avoided with the project, improvements in between RPRE and the client (Gangga Island Resort and Spa). The environmental conditions at the site, and social benefits to the contract is also assigned to the investors in case of any late or community. ● RPRE successfully unlocked financial capital through the issuance of a Mini Green Bond for one of its projects. The first stream of expected returns have also been paid in June 2020. RPRE Integrated Sustainability Report 2020 43 GOVERNANCE In addition to the 3 Ps, RPRE regards governance as an essential part of sustainability as well. Fair and honest businesses are vital in providing societies with welfare such as meaningful and productive employment, and positive impact on the environment and communities. A robust competitive business environment is also important, as it motivates businesses to innovate continuously and bring people a wider range of higher quality products and services. RPRE deems anti-corruption, anti-competitive behaviour, tax, compliance with laws in the social, environmental and economic domains as critical material issues. The governance structure and decision-making authority is concentrated on the Founder. Any impact metrics which are reported on a yearly basis are also reported back to the Founder by the team. B Corp Impact Assessment forms a third party assessment and review on the Company’s sustainability goals. ANTI-CORRUPTION RPRE complies with article 12(3) of the UN Convention against It is documented in our policy that employees shall not provide, solicit corruption and treats corruption seriously. Any employee who acts or accept any gift, cash or other inducements from any party outside fraudulently or dishonestly, or is guilty of fraud and dishonesty against RPRE that could compromise employees’ independence and conflict RPRE, its customers or any other party may be dismissed. Examples of with employees’ duties to customers or RPRE. Information regarding such acts include but are not limited to establishing off-the-book corruption can be found in the employee handbook, which every staff accounts, recording non-existent expenditure, and the use of false has access. Following the above, all employees are required to documents. complete a conflict of interest form. The purpose is to disclose their affiliations to any other organisation and raise their awareness of potential conflicts of interest resulting in the inability to carry out their duties to RPRE. RPRE has not identified any incidents of corruption since inception in Year 2017. ● RPRE has not identified any incidents of corruption since inception in Year 2017 ● All RPRE’s employees have undergone training for anti-corruption during onboarding RPRE Integrated Sustainability Report 2020 44 BUSINESS ETHICS AND COMPLIANCE Anti-competitive Behaviour RPRE has not engaged in any anti-competitive behaviour nor violated any antitrust and monopoly legislation. RPRE will not condone such practices and will engage only in fair business competition. ● RPRE has not engaged in any anti-competitive behaviour nor violated any antitrust and monopoly legislation since inception in Year 2017 Tax RPRE complies with the tax laws of the countries where it operates in and pays tax responsibly. There have not been any violations of tax paying since inception in Year 2017. ● RPRE has not violated any tax laws since inception in Year 2017 Environmental Compliance RPRE has not identified any incidents of non-compliance with environmental laws and regulations. RPRE will continue to comply with such laws and regulations at all times, wherever it operates. RPRE Integrated Sustainability Report 2020 45 Socioeconomic Compliance RPRE has not identified any non-compliance with laws and or regulations in the social and economic area. RPRE will continue to comply with such laws and regulations in the mentioned domains at all times, wherever it operates. RPRE has not identified any incidents of non-compliance with ​environmental laws and regulations since inception in Year 2017 RPRE has not identified any incidents of non-compliance with ​laws and regulations in the social or economic area since inception in Year 2017 RPRE Integrated Sustainability Report 2020 46 GRI CONTENT INDEX GRI 101: FOUNDATION 2016 General Disclosures The following table provides reference to the Section(s) where the GRI Standards are used as guidance for sustainable reporting. The blacked out columns are the GRI Standards that the Company has yet to address. External assessment of the Environment, Social and Governance metrics are done by B Corp Impact Assessment as part of our B Corp Certification. GRI Standard Disclosure Disclosure Title Reference to Section(s) in Report Number Organisational Profile GRI 102: General Disclosures 2016 102-1 Name of the organisation Corporate Profile 102-2 Activities, brands, products, and services Corporate Profile 102-3 Location of headquarters Corporate Profile 102-4 Location of operations Corporate Profile 102-5 Ownership and legal form 102-6 Markets served Corporate Profile 102-7 Scale of the organisation Corporate Profile RPRE Integrated Sustainability Report 2020 47 102-8 Information on employees and other workers 102-9 Supply chain 102-10 Significant changes to the organisation and its supply chain 102-11 Precautionary Principle or approach 102-12 External initiatives 102-13 Membership of associations Strategy GRI 102: General Disclosures 2016 102-14 Statement from senior decision-maker CEO’s Statement 102-15 Key impacts, risks and opportunities Identifying Issues Material to Stakeholders Ethics and integrity GRI 102: General Disclosures 2016 102-16 Values, principles, standards, and norms of Identifying Issues Material to Stakeholders behaviour 102-17 Mechanisms for advice and concerns Identifying Issues Material to Stakeholders about ethics People RPRE Integrated Sustainability Report 2020 48 Governance GRI 102: General Disclosures 2016 102-18 Governance structure Identifying Issues Material to Stakeholders Governance 102-19 Delegating authority 102-20 Executive-level responsibility for economic, environmental, and social topics 102-21 Consulting stakeholders on economic, Identifying Issues Material to Stakeholders environmental, and social topics Governance 102-22 Composition of the highest governance body and its committees 102-23 Chair of the highest governance body 102-24 Nominating and selecting the highest governance body 102-25 Conflicts of interest 102-26 Role of highest body in setting purpose, values, and strategy 102-27 Collective knowledge of highest governance body RPRE Integrated Sustainability Report 2020 49 102-28 Evaluating the highest governance’s body performance 102-29 Identifying and managing economic, Identifying Issues Material to Stakeholders environmental, and social impacts Governance 102-30 Effectiveness of risk management processes 102-31 Review of economic, environmental, and Identifying Issues Material to Stakeholders social topics Governance 102-32 Highest governance body’s role in sustainability reporting 102-33 Communicating critical concerns 102-34 Nature and total number of critical concerns 102-35 Remuneration policies 102-36 Process for determining remuneration 102-37 Stakeholders’ involvement in remuneration 102-38 Annual total compensation ratio RPRE Integrated Sustainability Report 2020 50 102-39 Percentage increase in annual total compensation ratio Stakeholder Engagement GRI 102: General Disclosures 2016 102-40 List of stakeholder groups Identifying Issues Material to Stakeholders Table 2 Stakeholders Groups, Engagement Platforms, Issues and Concerns 102-41 Collective bargaining agreements Identifying Issues Material to Stakeholders People: Labour and Management Relations 102-42 Identifying and selecting stakeholders Identifying Issues Material to Stakeholders Table 2 Stakeholders Groups, Engagement Platforms, Issues and Concerns 102-43 Approach to stakeholder engagement Identifying Issues Material to Stakeholders Table 2 Stakeholders Groups, Engagement Platforms, Issues and Concerns 102-44 Key topics and concerns raised Identifying Issues Material to Stakeholders Table 2 Stakeholders Groups, Engagement Platforms, Issues and Concerns RPRE Integrated Sustainability Report 2020 51 Reporting Practice GRI 102: General Disclosures 2016 102-45 Entities included in the consolidated financial statements 102-46 Defining report content and topic Identifying Issues Material to Stakeholders Boundaries 102-47 List of material topics Identifying Issues Material to Stakeholders 102-48 Restatements of information 102-49 Changes in reporting 102-50 Reporting period Scope of Report 102-51 Date of most recent report 102-52 Reporting cycle 102-53 Contact point for questions regarding the Scope of Report report 102-54 Claims of reporting in accordance with the Materiality and Sustainable Development GRI Standards Goals (SDGs) 102-55 GRI content index GRI Content Index RPRE Integrated Sustainability Report 2020 52 102-56 External assurance Topic-Specific Standards GRI Standard Disclosure Disclosure Title Mapped to Page Reference and Reasons for Number SDGs Omission, if Applicable People Occupational Health, Safety, and Well-being GRI 103: Management Approach Disclosure Explanation of the material topic and Identifying Issues Material to 2016 103-1 its Boundary Stakeholders Disclosure The management approach and its Identifying Issues Material to 103-2 components Stakeholders Disclosure Evaluation of the management Identifying Issues Material to 103-3 approach Stakeholders GRI 403: Occupational Health and Disclosure Occupational health and safety 8 Identifying Issues Material to Safety 2018 403-1 management system Stakeholders People: Occupational Health and Safety Disclosure Hazard identification, risk assessment, 8 Identifying Issues Material to 403-2 and incident investigation Stakeholders People: Occupational Health and Safety RPRE Integrated Sustainability Report 2020 53 Disclosure Occupational health services 8 Identifying Issues Material to 403-3 Stakeholders People: Occupational Health and Safety Disclosure Worker participation, consultation, 8 Identifying Issues Material to 403-4 and communication on occupational Stakeholders People: Occupational health and safety Health and Safety Disclosure Worker training on occupational 8 Identifying Issues Material to 403-5 health and safety Stakeholders People: Occupational Health and Safety Disclosure Promotion of worker health 8 Identifying Issues Material to 403-6 Stakeholders People: Occupational Health and Safety Disclosure Prevention and mitigation of 8 Identifying Issues Material to 403-7 occupational health and safety Stakeholders People: Occupational impacts directly linked by business Health and Safety relationships Disclosure Workers covered by an occupational 8 Identifying Issues Material to 403-8 health and safety management Stakeholders People: Occupational system Health and Safety RPRE Integrated Sustainability Report 2020 54 Disclosure Work-related injuries 8 Identifying Issues Material to 403-9 Stakeholders People: Occupational Health and Safety Disclosure Work-related ill health 8 Identifying Issues Material to 403-10 Stakeholders People: Occupational Health and Safety Labour Conditions GRI 103: Management Approach Disclosure Explanation of the material topic and Identifying Issues Material to 2016 103-1 its Boundary Stakeholders Disclosure The management approach and its Identifying Issues Material to 103-2 components Stakeholders Disclosure Evaluation of the management Identifying Issues Material to 103-3 approach Stakeholders GRI 401: Employment 2016 Disclosure New employee hires and employee 5, 8, 10 401-1 turnover Disclosure Benefits provided to full-time 8 Identifying Issues Material to 401-2 employees that are not provided to Stakeholders People: Occupational temporary or part-time employees Health, Safety and well-being, Labour Conditions RPRE Integrated Sustainability Report 2020 55 Disclosure Parental leave 5, 8, 10 Identifying Issues Material to 401-3 Stakeholders People: Labour Conditions GRI 402: Labor/ Management Disclosure Minimum notice periods regarding 8 Relations 2016 402-1 operational changes GRI 407: Freedom of Association Disclosure Operations and suppliers in which the 8 and Collective Bargaining 2016 407-1 right to freedom of association and collective bargaining may be at risk GRI 405: Diversity and Equal Disclosure Diversity of governance bodies and 5, 8, 10 Identifying Issues Material to Opportunity 2016 405-1 employees Stakeholders People: Diversity and Equal Opportunity Disclosure Ratio of basic salary and 5, 8, 10 405-2 remuneration of women to men GRI 406: Non-discrimination 2016 Disclosure Incidents of discrimination and 8, 10 Identifying Issues Material to 406-1 corrective actions taken Stakeholders People: Non-Discrimination Human Rights GRI 103: Management Approach Disclosure Explanation of the material topic and Identifying Issues Material to 2016 103-1 its Boundary Stakeholders Disclosure The management approach and its Identifying Issues Material to 103-2 components Stakeholders RPRE Integrated Sustainability Report 2020 56 Disclosure Evaluation of the management Identifying Issues Material to 103-3 approach Stakeholders GRI 408: Child Labor 2016 Disclosure Operations and suppliers at 8 Identifying Issues Material to 408-1 significant risk for incidents of child Stakeholders People: Human Rights labour GRI 409: Forced or Compulsory Disclosure Operations and suppliers at 8 Identifying Issues Material to Labor 409-1 significant risk for incidents of forced Stakeholders People: Human Rights or compulsory labour GRI 414: Supplier Social Assessment Disclosure New suppliers that were screened 8, 17 Identifying Issues Material to 2016 414-1 using social criteria Stakeholders People: Labour Conditions, Human Rights Disclosure Negative social impacts in the supply 8, 17 414-2 chain and actions taken GRI 411: Rights of Indigenous Disclosure Incidents of violations involving rights 10 Identifying Issues Material to Peoples 2016 411-1 of indigenous peoples Stakeholders People: Human Rights Product Safety and Customer Well-being GRI 103: Management Approach Disclosure Explanation of the material topic and Identifying Issues Material to 2016 103-1 its Boundary Stakeholders Disclosure The management approach and its Identifying Issues Material to 103-2 components Stakeholders Disclosure Evaluation of the management Identifying Issues Material to RPRE Integrated Sustainability Report 2020 57 103-3 approach Stakeholders GRI 416: Customer Health and Disclosure Assessment of the health and safety 7, 9 Identifying Issues Material to Safety 416-1 impacts of product and service Stakeholders People: Product Safety categories and Customer Well-Being Disclosure Incidents of non-compliance 7, 9 Identifying Issues Material to 416-2 concerning the health and safety Stakeholders People: Product Safety impacts of products and services and Customer Well-Being GRI 417: Marketing and Labeling Disclosure Requirements for product and service 7, 9 417-1 information and labeling Disclosure Incidents of non-compliance 7, 9 417-2 concerning product and service information and labeling Disclosure Incidents of non-compliance 7, 9 417-3 concerning marketing communications Cyber Security and Data Governance GRI 103: Management Approach Disclosure Explanation of the material topic and Identifying Issues Material to 2016 103-1 its Boundary Stakeholders Disclosure The management approach and its Identifying Issues Material to 103-2 components Stakeholders Disclosure Evaluation of the management Identifying Issues Material to RPRE Integrated Sustainability Report 2020 58 103-3 approach Stakeholders GRI 418: Customer Privacy 2016 Disclosure Substantiated complaints concerning Identifying Issues Material to 418-1 breaches of customer privacy and Stakeholders People: Cybersecurity losses of customer data and Data Governance Local Communities GRI 103: Management Approach Disclosure Explanation of the material topic and Identifying Issues Material to 2016 103-1 its Boundary Stakeholders Disclosure The management approach and its Identifying Issues Material to 103-2 components Stakeholders Disclosure Evaluation of the management Identifying Issues Material to 103-3 approach Stakeholders GRI 413: Local Communities 2016 Disclosure Operations with local community 4, 10, 17 Identifying Issues Material to 413-1 engagement, impact assessments, Stakeholders People: Local and development programs Communities Disclosure Operations with significant actual and 4, 10, 17 413-2 potential negative impacts on local communities Talent Attraction, Retention and Development GRI 103: Management Approach Disclosure Explanation of the material topic and Identifying Issues Material to 2016 103-1 its Boundary Stakeholders RPRE Integrated Sustainability Report 2020 59 Disclosure The management approach and its Identifying Issues Material to 103-2 components Stakeholders Disclosure Evaluation of the management Identifying Issues Material to 103-3 approach Stakeholders GRI 404: Training and Education Disclosure Average hours of training per year per 4 Identifying Issues Material to 2016 404-1 employee Stakeholders People: Talent Attraction, Retention and Development Disclosure Programs for upgrading employee 4 Identifying Issues Material to 404-2 skills and transition assistance Stakeholders People: Talent programs Attraction, Retention and Development Disclosure Percentage of employees receiving 4 Identifying Issues Material to 404-3 regular performance and career Stakeholders People: Talent development review Attraction, Retention and Development Planet Energy GRI 103: Management Approach Disclosure Explanation of the material topic and Identifying Issues Material to 2016 103-1 its Boundary Stakeholders Disclosure The management approach and its Identifying Issues Material to 103-2 components Stakeholders RPRE Integrated Sustainability Report 2020 60 Disclosure Evaluation of the management Identifying Issues Material to 103-3 approach Stakeholders GRI 302: Energy 2016 Disclosure Energy consumption within the 7, 9 Identifying Issues Material to 302-1 organisation Stakeholders Planet: Energy, Emissions Disclosure Energy consumption outside of the 7, 9 Identifying Issues Material to 302-2 organisation Stakeholders Planet: Energy, Emissions, Responsible Supplier Chain and Sourcing Disclosure Energy intensity 7, 9 303-3 Disclosure Reduction of energy consumption 7, 9 Identifying Issues Material to 302-4 Stakeholders Planet: Energy, Emissions Disclosure Reductions in energy requirements of 7, 9 302-5 products and services Emissions GRI 103: Management Approach Disclosure Explanation of the material topic and Identifying Issues Material to 2016 103-1 its Boundary Stakeholders Disclosure The management approach and its Identifying Issues Material to 103-2 components Stakeholders RPRE Integrated Sustainability Report 2020 61 Disclosure Evaluation of the management Identifying Issues Material to 103-3 approach Stakeholders GRI 305: Emissions 2016 Disclosure Direct (Scope 1) GHG emissions 9 305-1 Disclosure Energy indirect (Scope 2) GHG 9 Identifying Issues Material to 305-2 emissions Stakeholders Planet: Energy, Emissions Disclosure Other indirect (Scope 3) GHG 9 305-3 emissions Disclosure GHG emissions intensity 9 305-4 Disclosure Reduction of GHG emissions 9 Identifying Issues Material to 305-5 Stakeholders Planet: Energy, Emissions Disclosure Emissions of ozone-depleting 9 305-6 substances (ODS) Disclosure Nitrogen oxides (NOx), sulfur oxides 9 305-7 (SOx), and other significant air emissions Responsible Supply Chain and Sourcing GRI 103: Management Approach Disclosure Explanation of the material topic and Identifying Issues Material to RPRE Integrated Sustainability Report 2020 62 2016 103-1 its Boundary Stakeholders Disclosure The management approach and its Identifying Issues Material to 103-2 components Stakeholders Disclosure Evaluation of the management Identifying Issues Material to 103-3 approach Stakeholders GRI 301: Materials 2016 Disclosure Materials used by weight or volume 17 301-1 Disclosure Recycled input materials used 17 301-2 Disclosure Reclaimed products and their 17 301-3 packaging materials GRI 308: Supplier Environmental Disclosure New suppliers that were screened 17 Identifying Issues Material to Assessment 2016 308-1 using environmental criteria Stakeholders Planet: Responsible Supply Chain and Sourcing Disclosure Negative environmental impacts in 17 308-2 the supply chain and actions taken Water GRI 103: Management Approach Disclosure Explanation of the material topic and Identifying Issues Material to 2016 103-1 its Boundary Stakeholders RPRE Integrated Sustainability Report 2020 63 Disclosure The management approach and its Identifying Issues Material to 103-2 components Stakeholders Disclosure Evaluation of the management Identifying Issues Material to 103-3 approach Stakeholders GRI 303: Water and Effluents 2018 Disclosure Interactions with water as a shared Identifying Issues Material to 303-1 resource Stakeholders Planet: Water Disclosure Management of water 303-2 discharge-related impacts Disclosure Water withdrawal 303-3 Disclosure Water discharge 303-4 Disclosure Water consumption 303-5 Biodiversity GRI 103: Management Approach Disclosure Explanation of the material topic and Identifying Issues Material to 2016 103-1 its Boundary Stakeholders Disclosure The management approach and its Identifying Issues Material to 103-2 components Stakeholders RPRE Integrated Sustainability Report 2020 64 Disclosure Evaluation of the management Identifying Issues Material to 103-3 approach Stakeholders GRI 304: Biodiversity 2016 Disclosure Operational sites owned, leased, 304-1 managed in, or adjacent to, protected areas and areas of high biodiversity value outside protected areas Disclosure Significant impacts of activities, Identifying Issues Material to 304-2 products, and services on biodiversity Stakeholders Planet: Biodiversity Disclosure Habitats protected or restored Identifying Issues Material to 304-3 Stakeholders Planet: Biodiversity Disclosure IUCN Red List species and national 303-4 conservation list species with habitats in areas affected by operations Waste GRI 103: Management Approach Disclosure Explanation of the material topic and Identifying Issues Material to 2016 103-1 its Boundary Stakeholders Disclosure The management approach and its Identifying Issues Material to 103-2 components Stakeholders Disclosure Evaluation of the management Identifying Issues Material to 103-3 approach Stakeholders GRI 306: Waste 2016 Disclosure Waste generation and significant RPRE Integrated Sustainability Report 2020 65 306-1 waste-related impacts Disclosure Management of significant 306-2 waste-related impacts Disclosure Waste generated 306-3 Disclosure Waste diverted from disposal 306-4 Disclosure Waste directed to disposal 306-5 Profit Economic Contribution to Society GRI 103: Management Approach Disclosure Explanation of the material topic and Identifying Issues Material to 2016 103-1 its Boundary Stakeholders Disclosure The management approach and its Identifying Issues Material to 103-2 components Stakeholders Disclosure Evaluation of the management Identifying Issues Material to 103-3 approach Stakeholders GRI 201: Economic Performance Disclosure Direct economic value generated and 8 Identifying Issues Material to 2016 201-1 distributed Stakeholders Profit: Economic RPRE Integrated Sustainability Report 2020 66 Performance Disclosure Financial implications and other risks 8 201-2 and opportunities due to climate change Disclosure Defined benefit plan obligations and 8 Identifying Issues Material to 201-3 other retirement plans Stakeholders Profit: Plan Obligations Disclosure Financial assistance received from 8 Identifying Issues Material to 201-4 government Stakeholders Profit: Financial Assistance from Government GRI 202: Market Presence 2016 Disclosure Ratios of standard entry level wage by 5, 8 202-1 gender compared to local minimum wage Disclosure Proportion of senior management 202-2 hired from the local community GRI 203: Indirect Economic Impacts Disclosure Infrastructure investments and 17 Identifying Issues Material to 2016 203-1 services supported Stakeholders People: Local Communities Disclosure Significant indirect economic impacts 17 203-2 Procurement Practices GRI 103: Management Approach Disclosure Explanation of the material topic and Identifying Issues Material to RPRE Integrated Sustainability Report 2020 67 2016 103-1 its Boundary Stakeholders Disclosure The management approach and its Identifying Issues Material to 103-2 components Stakeholders Disclosure Evaluation of the management Identifying Issues Material to 103-3 approach Stakeholders GRI 204: Procurement Practices Disclosure Proportion of spending on local 17 Identifying Issues Material to 2016 204-1 suppliers Stakeholders Profit: Procurement Practices Sustainable Finance GRI 103: Management Approach Disclosure Explanation of the material topic and Identifying Issues Material to 2016 103-1 its Boundary Stakeholders Disclosure The management approach and its Identifying Issues Material to 103-2 components Stakeholders Disclosure Evaluation of the management Identifying Issues Material to 103-3 approach Stakeholders Governance Anti-corruption GRI 103: Management Approach Disclosure Explanation of the material topic and Identifying Issues Material to 2016 103-1 its Boundary Stakeholders RPRE Integrated Sustainability Report 2020 68 Disclosure The management approach and its Identifying Issues Material to 103-2 components Stakeholders Disclosure Evaluation of the management Identifying Issues Material to 103-3 approach Stakeholders GRI 205: Anti-corruption Disclosure Operations assessed for risks related 17 205-1 to corruption Disclosure Communication and training about 17 Identifying Issues Material to 205-2 anti-corruption policies and Stakeholders Governance: procedures Anti-Corruption Disclosure Confirmed incidents of corruption and 17 Identifying Issues Material to 205-3 actions taken Stakeholders Governance: Anti-Corruption Business Ethics and Compliance GRI 103: Management Approach Disclosure Explanation of the material topic and Identifying Issues Material to 2016 103-1 its Boundary Stakeholders Disclosure The management approach and its Identifying Issues Material to 103-2 components Stakeholders Disclosure Evaluation of the management Identifying Issues Material to 103-3 approach Stakeholders GRI 206: Anti-competitive Disclosure Legal actions for anti-competitive 17 Identifying Issues Material to behaviour 2016 206-1 behaviour, anti-trust, and monopoly Stakeholders Governance: RPRE Integrated Sustainability Report 2020 69 practices Anti-Corruption GRI 207: Tax 2019 Disclosure Approach to tax 17 Identifying Issues Material to 207-1 Stakeholders Governance: Tax Disclosure Tax governance, control, and risk 17 207-2 management Disclosure Stakeholder engagement and 17 207-3 management of concerns related to tax Disclosure Country-by-country reporting 17 207-4 GRI 307: Environmental Compliance Disclosure Non-compliance with environmental 17 2016 307-1 laws and regulations GRI 419: Socioeconomic Compliance Disclosure Non-compliance with laws and 17 2016 419-1 regulations in the social and economic area RPRE Integrated Sustainability Report 2020 70 REFERENCE LIST 19 Sustainability Report.Pdf​. https://www.mapletree.com.sg/~/media/Media/Publication/Annual%20Reports/2018%202019/19%20Sustainability%20Report.pdf​. Accessed 28 July 2020. BPJS Ketenagakerjaan​.​ ​https://www.bpjsketenagakerjaan.go.id/program-jaminan-kecelakaan-kerja.html​. Accessed 28 July 2020. BPJS Ketenagakerjaan​.​ ​https://www.bpjsketenagakerjaan.go.id/program-jaminan-kematian.html​. Accessed 28 July 2020. BPJS Ketenagakerjaan​.​ ​https://www.bpjsketenagakerjaan.go.id/program-jaminan-hari-tua.html​. Accessed 28 July 2020. BPJS Ketenagakerjaan​.​ ​https://www.bpjsketenagakerjaan.go.id/program-jaminan-pensiun.html​. Accessed 28 July 2020. Career Support Programme for Employers​.​ ​https://www.wsg.gov.sg/programmes-and-initiatives/wsg-career-support-programme-employers.html​. Accessed 28 July 2020. Diesel Generator Engine Emissions Summary and Restrictions | Diesel Service​. https://www.generatorsource.com/Generator_Engine_Emissions_Explained.aspx​. Accessed 28 July 2020. Digital Business Loan | Resilience Budget 2020 | DBS SME Banking​. https://www.dbs.com.sg/sme/financing/government-assisted-schemes/digital-business-loan?utm_source=www&utm_medium=referral&utm_ campaign=affiliate​. Accessed 28 July 2020. Factsheet on Place and Train.Pdf​. https://www.wsg.gov.sg/content/dam/ssg-wsg/wsg/general/documents/Factsheet%20on%20Place%20and%20Train.pdf​. Accessed 28 July 2020. RPRE Integrated Sustainability Report 2020 71 Factsheet-on-Extension-of-Sec.Pdf​.​ ​https://www.mom.gov.sg/~/media/mom/documents/budget2016/factsheet-on-extension-of-sec.pdf​. Accessed 28 July 2020. Green Building Masterplans | Building and Construction Authority (BCA)​. ​www1.bca.gov.sg​, https://www1.bca.gov.sg/buildsg/sustainability/green-building-masterplans​. Accessed 28 July 2020. IRAS | Jobs Support Scheme (JSS)​.​ ​https://www.iras.gov.sg/irashome/Schemes/Businesses/Jobs-Support-Scheme--JSS-/#title2​. Accessed 28 July 2020. Labor & Minimum Wages – BKPM Japan​.​ ​http://www.bkpm-jpn.com/en/labor-minimum-wages/​. Accessed 28 July 2020. P-Max​.​ ​https://www.wsg.gov.sg/programmes-and-initiatives/p-max-employer.html​. Accessed 28 July 2020. “Recycling of REC solar panels.” R ​ EC Group​, 20 Nov. 2015. w ​ ww.recgroup.com​, https://www.recgroup.com/recycling-rec-solar-panels?variable_realm_key_language=ja​. RPRE Issues First Mini Green Bond for Impact Investors​.​ ​https://www.rpreasia.com/post/rpre-s-issues-first-mini-green-bond-for-impact-investors​. Accessed 28 July 2020. SG United​. ​www.sgunited.gov.sg​, /​. Accessed 28 July 2020. SkillsFuture SkillsFuture Mid-Career Enhanced Subsidy​.​ ​https://www.skillsfuture.sg/enhancedsubsidy​. Accessed 28 July 2020. Special Employment Credit (SEC)​.​ ​https://www.sec.gov.sg/Pages/Home.aspx​. Accessed 28 July 2020. “The Manpower Insurance or BPJS Ketenagakerjaan.” I​ ndoNed​. ​www.indo-ned.com​, https://www.indo-ned.com/the-manpower-insurance-or-bpjs-ketenagakerjaan/​. Accessed 28 July 2020. RPRE Integrated Sustainability Report 2020 72 The Minimum Wage in Indonesia: Increased by 8.5% for 2020​. https://www.aseanbriefing.com/news/the-minimum-wage-in-indonesia-increased-by-8-5-for-2020/​. Accessed 28 July 2020. Weltwirtschaftsforum, and Zurich Insurance Group. G ​ lobal Risks 2019: Insight Report​. 2019. O ​ pen WorldCat​, http://www3.weforum.org/docs/WEF_Global_Risks_Report_2019.pdf​. What Is the Progressive Wage Model​.​ ​https://www.mom.gov.sg/employment-practices/progressive-wage-model/what-is-pwm​. Accessed 28 July 2020. “Work-Life Grant (WLG) for Flexible Work Arrangements.” ​Ministry of Manpower Singapore​. ​www.mom.gov.sg​, https://www.mom.gov.sg/employment-practices/good-work-practices/work-life-grant​. Accessed 29 July 2020. Wp_-_recycling_of_solar_modules.Pdf​. https://www.recgroup.com/sites/default/files/documents/wp_-_recycling_of_solar_modules.pdf?variable_realm_key_language=ja​. Accessed 28 July 2020. Credits to ​www.flaticon.com for all icons used in this report. Artist: skyclick, Freepik, Vitaly Gorbachew, Hippies, Ecology, Mansaabguru, EuCalyp, Nhor Pha, Ulitimatearm and Vladyslav RPRE Integrated Sustainability Report 2020 73
