United Nations Global Compact – Communication on Progress December 2019 Hassell Systems, Policies, Initiatives and Progress relative to the UN Global Compact’s 10 principles UN Global Compact Principles Hassell Systems and Policies Hassell Initiatives and Progress in 2019 A publically available Modern Slavery Act Businesses should support HASSELL has various policies in place including a Transparency Statement has been updated for and respect the protection of Principle 1 Code of Ethics which includes a statement on the 2019 reporting period and included on the international proclaimed Human Rights. In addition we have policies Hassell website. A further review to reflect new human rights addressing Equal Opportunity, prevention of Australian legislation is underway. Bullying, Discrimination and Harassment. A Our Executive team and other relevant employees Businesses should make sure Whistleblower Protection policy also exists to have been made aware of the risks of modern Principle 2 they are not complicit in encourage employees to speak up if they see any slavery and human trafficking, and our policies human rights abuses misconduct. have been updated and subject to ongoing review. Businesses should uphold the A publically available Modern Slavery Act freedom of association and the Hassell does not use or employ forced, bonded or Transparency Statement is included on the Principle 3 effective recognition of the child labour. We are committed to high standards of Hassell website. right to collective bargaining ethical conduct and operate our business in full Hassell reports annually to the Australian compliance with all international laws and Workplace Gender Equality Agency, and is Businesses should uphold the regulations. currently compliant with all requirements. Principle 4 elimination of all forms of Qualitative and quantitative measures for gender forced and compulsory labour Our policies and procedures include; equality are reported biannually to the Hassell Board.  Equal Opportunity Policy; Businesses should uphold the Inappropriate Behaviour training (ie anti Discrimination and Harassment Policy; Principle 5 effective abolition of child discrimination, bullying etc ) was conducted  Bullying policy; throughout the Hassell studios in 2019. labour  Code of Ethics Policy; Hassell has commenced a pilot Working in  Whistle Blower Protection Policy; International TeamsCross Cultural Training in the Businesses should uphold the  Parental Leave policy; and Asia studios. elimination of discrimination in  Breast Feeding Policy Hassell has introduced a pilot program for Principle 6 respect of employment and Indigenous engagement in Australia. occupation. Hassell offers paid internships across the practice. hassellstudio.com Letter_FORM_191206.dotx UNGC_CommunicationOnProgress_2019.docx 1 of 2 UN Global Compact Principles Hassell Systems and Policies Hassell Initiatives and Progress in 2019 The Hassell EMS was auditted and re-certified to Businesses should support a ISO 14001:2015 in June 2019. Principle 7 precautionary approach to environmental challenges Hassell became a founding signatory to Architects The principle objective of the Hassell Declare Australia and a signatory to Architects Environmental Policy is to promote sustainable Declare United Kingdom. Businesses should undertake development, reduce the environmental impact of Principle 8 initiatives to promote greater At 30 June 2019, Hassell had designed 112 our projects and our studios and maximise environmental responsibility projects certified or registered under sustainable environmental value. building rating systems including LEED, Our Hassell Environmental Management System BREEAM, WELL, Green Mark and Green Star. (EMS) includes; These projects have a total combined floor over Businesses should encourage  Environmental Sustainability Policy; 2,839,041 square metres. the development and diffusion  Environmental Sustainability Procedure; During 2019, an additional 19 people had Principle 9 of environmentally friendly  Project Sustainability Guide; and received formal training in a sustainable design technologies  Studio Sustainability Guide. rating tool relevant to their location. Hassell has committed to transitioning to using 100% renewable energy for its studios by 2023. Hassell is committed to high standards of ethical conduct and operate our business in full compliance with all international laws and regulations. Businesses should work In 2019 Hassell reviewed and updated the Anti against corruption in all its Our policies and procedures include; Bribery Policy and Code of Ethics Policy. These Principle 10 forms, including extortion and  Anti-Bribery Policy policies apply across all studios. Further work on bribery  Code of Ethics Policy; a training module is underway  Whistle Blower Protection Policy; and  Benefits, Taking Advantage, Business Commission and Presents China hassellstudio.com 2 of 2
