Integrated Report 2019 (Year ended March 31, 2019) NRI’s Corporate Philosophy A Corporate Philosophy that Builds on NRI’s Corporate Philosophy the Founding Spirit and Lives on Dream up the future. NRI offers integrated services ranging from consulting through to IT solutions. We were established through the merger of the former Nomura Research Institute, Ltd., Japan’s first private-sector think tank, and Nomura Computer Systems Co., Ltd., a leader of Japan’s IT industry. We summarize our commitment to creating a new society, business and the future in our corporate philosophy Dream up the future. While succeeding NRI’s founding spirit in these times of rapid change, we are working to develop new social values and resolve various social issues. The NRI Founding Spirit Continues to Be Passed Down Japan’s First Full-fledged Japan’s First Commercial Use Private-sector Think Tank of Computers The origin of NRI’s consulting business goes back to 1965 when The origin of NRI's IT solutions business is the Electronic Data Nomura Securities Co., Ltd. expanded the functions of its Research Processing Division of Nomura Securities Co., Ltd. that was Division and established the former Nomura Research Institute, Ltd. established in 1953. In 1955, the division adopted the use of a The objective was to make a dramatic leap to develop into a highcommercial computer (UNIVAC-120) that had just been developed quality research and investigation institution. in the United States, making headlines as the first instance in The founding prospectus, “Nomura Research Institute—its Japan of the commercial use of a computer. This is the result of Concept and Policies,” describes the following as the aims of the desire and passion to create new systems previously unseen establishing the Institute: ”To be a new type of research institute in the world. that had never existed in Japan before,” and “To promote industry In 1966, the Electronic Data Processing Division spun off from and be of service to society through research studies.” This has Nomura Securities to become the Nomura Computing Center been passed down to today in NRI’s DNA, which makes it an Co., Ltd.* The philosophy of its establishment was to take the organization with the primary goal varied expertise acquired through advanced system development of creating new social value and as Nomura Securities and put it to use for management engaging in the resolution of social rationalization and other benefits of more companies. The issues through its main business philosophy indicates an attitude to be of service to society as well activities. as create new value. The founding prospectus of former Nomura Research Institute The commercial computer (Produced by Nomura Securities in (UNIVAC-120) adopted by 1962) Nomura Securities *Company name changed to Nomura Computer Systems Co., Ltd., in 1972. 1 Nomura Research Institute Contents ▶ Corporate Philosophy NRI’s Corporate Philosophy Corporate Statement The NRI Group’s corporate philosophy consists of four pillars: mission, business domain, management goals and action guidelines. To society: Discerning new social paradigms and assuming the role of implementing such paradigms. Mission To clients: Building client’s trust and prospering together with clients. Business Company creating future society domain Mangement Pursuing the maximization of corporate value through goals “Navigation × Solution” Action Continuing never-ending challenges with pride of true guidelines professionals The History and Mission of NRI In a move that foresaw an ideal information services company, the former Nomura Research Institute, Ltd., and Nomura Computer Systems Co., Ltd., merged to become the new Nomura Research Institute, Ltd., (NRI) in 1988. The new NRI succeeded the spirit of the two companies from the time of their founding. It would do more than simply provide research, consulting and IT services. The company would create new social value, making its mission the resolution of challenges faced by society and clients. Research consulting Apr. 1965 Research Division Corporate (former) Nomura of Nomura split Securities Research Institute established Jan. 1988 Dec. 2001 Apr. 2015 Listed on the Vision2022 long-term Merger Launch of First Section management vision and IT solutions new NRI of the Tokyo “Share the Next Values!” Stock Exchange vision statement released Electronic Data Jan. 1966 Processing Corporate Nomura Computer Division of split Systems Nomura Securities established “When forecasting the advanced information society to come, there can be no think-tank without a systems function, and there can be no systems company without a think-tank function” (From the press conference following the signing ceremony for the new NRI) Foreseeing the arrival of a digital age in which business and information technology (IT) became one, the merger of the two companies was driven by the passion of the management team to create a company that was needed the most for Japan of the future to survive on the world stage. Integrated Report 2019 2 NRI Sustainability Management In keeping with the “Dream up the future” NRI’s Corporate Philosophy corporate philosophy, NRI will co-create social value with clients and build a better tomorrow through the power of innovation. The concept of creating shared value (CSV), in which companies create both social and economic value, is correlated to NRI’s founding spirit. This way of thinking is shared by each NRI employee through the “Dream up the future” corporate philosophy. In the Long-term Management Vision, Vision2022, the determination to continue taking on new challenges toward the achievement of new value is expressed in the “Share the Next Values!” vision statement. It is being promoted as NRI Sustainability Management together with Solving social issues through value co-creation, and the efforts related to Materiality for sustainable growth that support them. It is in such ways that NRI will aim to achieve both its sustainable growth and building sustainable futures. Examples of Activities to Co-create Social Value Co-create a thriving future society by driving new value. Holding NRI Dream Up the Future Co-Creation with a Client to Create Forums to Think About Future Society New Value Based on its “Dream up the future” corporate philosophy, NRI Dokokani Mile is a mileage service launched by Japan Airlines Co., holds the NRI Dream Up the Future Forum every year. At this Ltd., (JAL) in December 2016. It enables users to go to one of four business forum, internal and external specialists and experts randomly proposed destinations for less miles than are usually discuss the future vision of Japan and the world. The common required. theme of the forum for the three years beginning in 2017 is The The service resulted from co-creation between JAL and NRI, Digital Near Future. Under examination are topics such as the which began at the planning phase. In addition to stimulating desired state of Japan and the world, and the direction of corporate demand for domestic travel in Japan, it creates new value for management. NRI hopes to create a thriving future society with the airline by promoting the use of otherwise empty seats. For many others through such recommendation activities. localities, it offers value in the form of contributing to revitalization of the area. Securities President Konomoto’s keynote speech at the NRI Dream Up the Future The Dokokani Mile domestic flight award airline ticket service resulting Forum 2018 from co-creation between JAL and NRI 3 Nomura Research Institute Contents ▶ NRI Sustainability Management NRI’s Corporate Philosophy •The Long-term •Solving social issues through value co-creation (CSV) Management Vision “Vision2022” Co-create a thriving Vision statement future society by driving new value. Co-create a safe and Co-create an ideal society by effectively utilizing its resources. secure society by advancing its infrastructure. Vision2022 financial targets Operating profit ¥100 billion •Materiality for sustainable growth Operating profit margin 14% or more Reduction of environmental impact Provision of opportunities for all kinds for preserving global environment of professionals to take on challenge Overseas sales ¥100 billion Compliance with laws, regulations and risk Management of the informationsystems ROE 14% management to increase trust from society that form social infrastructure Co-create an Co-create a safe and aaaaa ideal society secure society Co-create a safe and secure society by advancing its infrastructure. by effectively utilizing its resources. by advancing its infrastructure. Co-creation of an Ideal Society Fulfilling Social Responsibility by Through Shared Online Services Supporting the Infrastructure for Expansion Financial and Distribution Functionalities In the 1970s, decades before the word “cloud computing” came As entities that help keep clients stay viable in their day-to-day into existence, NRI launched a back-office system for securities operations as well as store classified, personal and other sensitive firms, offering it as a shared online service.* NRI’s shared information and data, there is no room for error left at NRI data online services are also provided to a wide variety of industries centers. To ensure optimal safety and security, we continue to and sectors to streamline and raise the productivity of clients' carry out more than 3,000 inspections and drills each year. They operations and social systems. Having clients share online systems include training our employees in the proper responses to take in leads to drastically reduced environmental impact. the event of a problem, and inspections to ensure that warning signs of failures and information security incidents are caught. We support a safe and secure society in such ways through sophisticated operation of important social infrastructures. THE STAR, a back-office solution for retail brokerage firms, has been Data center comprehensive interlocking inspection (President Konomoto supporting the stability and growth of capital markets on far left) *On-demand software, or software as a service (SaaS), in which an application is offered and shared via internet Integrated Report 2019 4 Contents / Editorial Policy Contents Contents / Editorial Policy NRI’s Corporate Philosophy...............................................................................................1 NRI’s Corporate Philosophy 1 NRI Sustainability Management..........................................................................................3 Contents............................................................................................................................5 Contents/Editorial Policy 5 Editorial Policy for the Integrated Report 2019....................................................................6 NRI’s History 7 The History of NRI’s Value Creation....................................................................................7 Top Message 9 Top Message.....................................................................................................................9 Value Creation Process....................................................................................................17 Opportunities and Risks due to Changes in the External Environment...............................19 Business Model................................................................................................................21 Medium-Term Management Plan (2019-2022).................................................................25 Capital for Creating Value (Competitive Advantages).........................................................29 NRI’s Value Creation 17 Competitive Advantages of Human Capital....................................................................29 Competitive Advantages of Social and Relationship Capital...........................................30 Competitive Advantages of Intellectual Capital...............................................................31 Competitive Advantages of Financial Capital (CFO Message).........................................33 Financial/Non-financial Highlights......................................................................................35 Events in the Fiscal Year Ended March 2019....................................................................38 Business Domain..............................................................................................................39 NRI’s Four Business Segments.....................................................................................39 Solving Social Issues Consulting Segment......................................................................................................41 39 Financial IT Solutions Segment......................................................................................43 through Value Creation Industrial IT Solutions Segment......................................................................................45 IT Platform Services Segment........................................................................................47 Message from the Director in Charge of Supervising of Corporate Administration.............49 Results of Main Sustainability Activities.............................................................................51 E (Environment Management) Creation of a Future, Low Environmental Impact Society...... 53 S (Human Resources NRI’s Human Resources Strategy........................................ 57 Management) Development of DX Human Resources................................. 59 Diversity Management.......................................................... 61 Work-style Reform Issues and Health and Productivity Management................................ 62 Mechanisms for 49 G (Governence) NRI’s Corporate Governance................................................ 63 Supporting Value Creation System and Responsibilities of the Board of Directors and the Audit & Supervisory Board.................................... 65 Compensation for Members of the Board and Audit & Supervisory Board Members................................. 67 Internal Controls, Corporate Ethics and Compliance............. 69 Message from the Outside Member of Board and the Audit & Supervisory Board Member...................... 71 NRI Executives..................................................................... 73 Cooperation with Stakeholders............................................. 75 Information Disclosure and Communication.......................... 78 NRI’s Quality Management................................................... 79 11-year Summary Consolidated Financial Statements......................................................83 Corporate Information / Consolidate Financial Data...............................................................................................85 83 ESG Data.........................................................................................................................87 Data NRI Group Network..........................................................................................................89 Corporate Data / Share Information..................................................................................90 5 Nomura Research Institute Editorial Policy for the Integrated Report 2019 Contents / Editorial Policy Since the fiscal year ended March 2014, NRI has published integrated reports which provide explanations while associating important financial and non-financial information. These reports aim to give an overall picture of our corporate value creation activities in a concise and clear manner. Ever since its founding, NRI has been engaged in the resolution of social challenges through its business, contributing to the building of a sustainable future society. In addition to such undertakings, the Integrated Report 2019 clarifies, using feedback from our stakeholders as reference, NRI’s competitive advantage in response to described changes in the external environment, with a focus on NRI Sustainability Management and the Medium-Term Management Plan (2019–2020) formulated in April 2019. Also introduced is the story of NRI’s value creation for the achievement of an even better future society. This is done by creating new social value through business activities that are based on our mediumto long-term growth strategies, and resolving social issues. As for details and other related information that cannot be included due to space, we have included the source of the relevant information (e.g., websites and the Annual Securities Report) within the pages of this Integrated Report for your use. NRI works toward the mediumto long-term enhancement of its corporate value. We strive for even deeper communication with stakeholders to enable the determination of its value. •Guidelines Referenced for the Disclosure of Information The International Integrated Guidance for Integrated Corporate GRI Standard by Global Reporting Reporting Framework by the Disclosure and Company-Investor Initiative (GRI) International Integrated Reporting Dialogues for Collaborative Value Council (IIRC) Creation by the Ministry of Economy, the Trade and the Industry (METI) •Categorization for NRI’s Disclosure Information Broad •Website https://www.nri.com/en Corporate •Knowledge Insight Brochure •Solutions & Services •Sustainability •News Target audience •About NRI Integrated •Investor Relations Report •Careers Website •NRI People •NRI JOURNAL Specific Website Summaries and images Content Details and data Corporate Brochure Sustainability Book 2019 ESG Databook 2019 Cautionary Note on Forward-Looking Statements: •This Integrated Report is prepared for the purpose of providing information on our performance in the fiscal year ended March 31, 2019 and our strategy for the coming years, not for the purpose of attracting investment in stocks issued by Nomura Research Institute, Ltd. (NRI). In addition, this report contains absolutely no guarantees or pledges. •The opinions and outlook contained herein reflect the views of management at the time of preparation. We do not offer any guarantees or pledges as to the accuracy or completeness of such information, which, moreover, is subject to alteration without advance notice. •NRI holds all rights to each and every part of the integrated report, which may not be reproduced, transmitted or otherwise duplicated by any means, whether electronic or mechanical, whatever the purpose, without our express permission. •For the purpose of convenience within this report “NRI” is used to refer to the Company and in certain places the entire NRI Group. Integrated Report 2019 6 The History of NRI’s Value Creation Sales Ever since its founding, NRI has been creating a multitude of new value in accordance with the NRI’s History (billions of yen) 800 changes in social issues, and continually achieved sustainable growth even amid the impact of various changes in economic trends and economic crises. In the Long-term Management Vision “Vision2022” (from FY March 2016 to FY March 2023), and the Medium-Term Management Plan (2019–2022), which are currently being promoted, we are vigorously pushing toward enhancement of our mediumto long-term corporate value 600 under the “Dream up the future” corporate philosophy. 400 Sales (left scale) Launch of Operating profit (right scale) Collapse of Japan’s Notes: new NRI economic bubble 1. The figures prior to 1987 are combined totals for the former Nomura Research 200 Institute and Nomura Computer Systems. 2. The figures for 1988-1996 are non-consolidated; the figures for 1997 onward are consolidated. 3. Owing to a change of fiscal year-end, 1989 was a six-month accounting period (October 1988-March 1989). For convenience, the graph shows six-month figures x 2. 0 65 77.9 82.9 87.9 89.3 92.3 97.3 NRI’s History 1965 1966 1967 1995 Former Nomura Research Institute, Ltd. founded Nomura Computing Center Co., Ltd. founded New York Office established Seoul Branch established as Japan’s first private-sector think tank (Name changed to Nomura Computer Systems 1972 1997 Co., Ltd. in 1972) London Office established Manila Branch established 1976 Hong Kong Office established 1984 Singapore Office established 1988 Former Nomura Research Institute and Nomura Computer Systems merged 1994 Former Nomura Research Institute Nomura Computing Center founded NRI Pacific Inc. founded Former Nomura Research Institute and founded Taipei Representative Office established Nomura Computer Systems merged NRI’s Evolution of Consulting and IT Solutions Consulting-related 1970 1988 1994 Forecasted the number of visitors to the Japan Started recommendation activities of the world's Launched corporate website sixth in Japan events World Exposition held in Osaka five big think tanks including NRI 1995 (a pioneer in research & consulting business in (thereafter annually through 1995) Center for Cyber Communities Initiative (CCCI) Japan) 1989 established with Keio University 1984 Organized Pension Management Study Group Cyber Life Club cybermall launched System Clinic Service launched (affected Japan 401K scheme later) (a pioneer in online shopping business in Japan) (a pioneer in system consulting business in Japan) IT Solution-related 1970 1979 1987 Launched Nomura Securities’ “Integrated Online Launched a new ordering system for Famicom Trade System in Nomura Securities events System” SEVEN-ELEVEN JAPAN CO., LTD. launched 1974 1987 (a pioneer in contemporary home trading services) STAR, a shared online service for retail I-STAR, a shared online system for wholesale 1988 brokerage firms launched brokerage firms launched International VAN service between Japan and United States launched 7 Nomura Research Institute Contents ▶ Operating profit NRI’s History (billions of yen) 100 50th 75 Anniversary Listed on the Global Financial Crisis First Section of the Tokyo Stock Exchange 50 Collapse of dot-com bubble 25 Long-Term Management Vision Long-Term Management Vision Vision2015 Vision2022 (2009.3-2016.3) (2016.3-2023.3) Medium-Term Medium-Term Management Plan Management Plan (2016-2018) (2019-2022) 0 01.3 02.3 07.3 09.3 16.3 17.3 18.3 19.3 20.3 23.3 (Forecast) (Target) 2000 2009 2014 2016 NRI Secure Technologies, Ltd. founded NRI BPO Services, Ltd. founded (Name changed DSB Co., Ltd. joined NRI Group Cutter Associates, LLC joined the NRI Group 2001 to NRI Process Innovation, Ltd. in 2010) Nomura Research Institute Holdings ASG Group Limited joined the NRI Group Listed on the First Section of the Tokyo Stock Exchange 2010 America, Inc. founded NRI digital, Ltd. and NRI Retail Next, Ltd. founded NRI Data i Tech, Ltd. founded Nomura Research Institute (Dalian), Ltd. founded Nomura Research Institute IT Solutions 2017 NRI Cyber Patent, Ltd. founded America, Inc. founded Nomura Research Institute Australia Pty Ltd. 2011 2002 Nomura Research Institute Consulting and 2015 founded Nomura Research Institute Shanghai Limited Solutions India Private Limited founded Brierley+Partners, Inc. joined the NRI Group SMS Management & Technology Limited joined founded Zhiming Software Beijing, Ltd. joined the NRI the NRI Group 2012 Nomura Research Institute (Beijing), Ltd. founded Group 2018 Nomura Research Institute Zhiming Software Japan, Ltd. joined the NRI Nvantage India Private Limited founded 2007 Financial Technologies India Pvt. Ltd. founded Group NRI Social Information System Services, Ltd. founded NRI System Techno, Ltd. founded Nomura Research Institute Singapore Pte. Ltd. 2008 2013 and NRI Mirai, Ltd. founded Dallas Office established Nomura Research Institute Thailand founded Moscow Branch established 1997 2003 2007 2012 Conducted the first Survey of 10,000 Consumers Started sending CIO aides to government Established Tsinghua-NRI Chinese Research Provided comprehensive support, from designing (thereafter conducted every three years) organizations, including Ministry of Health, Center the service to the system architecture, for 2000 Labour and Welfare, Ministry of Agriculture, Insight Signal, advertising effectiveness Shiseido’s integrated online beauty service Advocated the concept of Ubiquitous Networking Forestry and Fisheries etc. measurement service launched “watashi+” (a new information technology paradigm) 2011 2014 Recommendation activities and others for Great Assisted the rollout of “NISA” system, from East Japan Earthquake recovery efforts design to system construction 1993 1999 2001 2012 T-STAR, a shared online system for asset Online trading system for an online brokerage TRUE TELLER, text-mining solution launched Launched Value Direct (for online banking) management firms launched firm launched Full-scale offshore development in China 2016 1997 2000 2004 TRAINA, AI solution launched BESTWAY, an over-the-counter sales system for Bizmart, an electronic commerce support system e-JIBAI, compulsory automobile liability mutual funds launched launched (Support for B2B transactions) insurance system launched e-Cash experiment with Japanese commercial banks (Japan’s first electronic money trial) Integrated Report 2019 8 Top Message Top Message 9 Nomura Research Institute Contents ▶ Top Message The new Medium-Term Management Plan has begun. As a strategic partner, NRI will create value with its clients and engage in the resolution of social issues. NRI’s three-year Medium-Term Management Plan (2016–2018), which covered the first half of the Long-term Management Vision “Vision2022,” was completed at the end of March 2019. The expansion of existing businesses and the development of business bases for the global and DX businesses – which are areas of growth – progressed during the three years. As a result, we were able to achieve our targets. This would not have been possible without the support of our stakeholders, for which I would like to express my sincere appreciation. In recent years, digitization and globalization of society has been progressing at a rapid pace, and social issues – such as the shortage of workers associated with population decline, and global warming – are escalating. Under “Dream up the future,” which has been its corporate philosophy since around the time of founding, NRI has resolved various social issues through its business, and created a better tomorrow through the power of innovation. We will continue to uphold this philosophy and gain insight into the new paradigms of society and these times of drastic changes. At the same time, we will increase business opportunities by leveraging our strengths to consistently provide services while running side by side with clients in businesses and solutions. The Medium-Term Management Plan (2019–2022), which was recently formulated, is our growth strategy for a sustainable future. NRI will aim for continuous improvement of corporate value by creating value with clients as their strategic partner and engaging in the resolution of social issues. July 2019 Shingo Konomoto Chairman and President & CEO, Representative Director, Member of the Board Integrated Report 2019 10 Top Message Looking Back on the Medium-Term Management Plan (2016–2018) Top Message The Four Key Themes of the Long-term Management Results of the Medium-Term Management Plan Vision “Vision2022” and the Previous Medium-Term (2016–2018) Management Plan As a result of such efforts, we successfully achieved our In April 2015, NRI launched “Vision2022 (V2022)”, a longoriginally planned targets of ¥500 billion in net sales and term management vision set to conclude in the fiscal year ¥70 billion in operating profit. Among the achievements was ending March 2023. The strategy aims to further enhance the further deepening of Con-Solution*3, which is a client NRI’s existing strengths in IP*1 and also represents NRI’s support structure that combines consulting and IT solutions. preparedness to take on new challenges in the dramatic It is indispensable for the promotion of DX business items. expansion of globalization and the creation of new value in Furthermore, in regard to reform of the corporate climate the digital domain. The two main themes of globalization into one that enables challenges to be tackled —an issue and the DX*2 business form the core of V2022 and are that was felt three years ago—we believe that the developessential for NRI’s long-term growth. However, it will take ment of an organizational climate that instills a willingness some time for the strategy to bear fruit. Therefore, during the in each employee to try for and achieve new opportunities first three years of V2022 in the Medium-Term Management has spread. It includes establishment of the Innovation Plan (2016-2018), we continued business expansion and Promotion Committee and the birth of projects for investproductivity improvement based on the strengths of existing ments in and partnerships with various startups. businesses. At the same time, we steadily drove our busiMeanwhile, a backdrop to such results is the favorable ness forward while promoting the following four key themes macro environment surrounding the IT services industry. in order to build a business base for the global and DX We believe that it is of importance that the favorable envibusinesses, which are areas of growth. ronment does not make us complacent toward the ability *1 Intellectual Property particularly for advanced technologies and business to achieve goals, and that we carry out management with models *2 DX, or Digital Transformation, refers to the utilization of digital technology humility and self-reflection. for the transformation of business processes and business models *3 Con-Solution is a business model in which consulting and IT solutions run side by side with clients from the planning and concept stages, creating business while repeating the process of hypothesis testing Results of the Medium-Term Management Plan (2016-2018) •Medium-Term Plan (2016-2018) 4 pillars of strategy Major results of the 3 years 1 •Hardly any unexpected large-scale unprofitable projects Improve productivity in •Improved productivity by integrating business platform development systems and implementing aslead specialty areas in Japan (development management integration tool) Expand industry•In Industrial IT, major progress has been achieved in the context of DX, and great progress has been made in 2 standard business platforms and develop large-scale clients development of large-scale clients •In Financial IT, worsening business conditions had impact but business platforms grew, and large-scale projects were also acquired 3 Build foundations for global business •Business in Australia is progressing smoothly, mainly with ASG Group •Initiated more governance improvements in conjunction with global business expansion •More projects involving D2C*5, digital marketing, and analytics 4 Create business IT*4 •Greater proficiency in agile development for BiT, and profitability has improved •The achievement of co-creation models through the establishment of joint ventures with clients (KDDI, DMG MORI, DENSO and JAL) •Financial results FY Mar. 2016 (Results) FY Mar. 2019 (Results) Sales ¥421.4 billion ¥501.2 billion +19% Overseas sales ¥14.6 billion ¥53.0 billion 3.6 times Operating profit ¥58.2 billion ¥71.4 billion +23% Operating profit margin 13.8% 14.3% +0.4pt ROE 10.6% 12.3% +1.6pt *4 BiT: IT directly contributes to the expansion of clients’ businesses *5 D2C stands for Direct to Consumer, or direct sales through e-commerce, etc. 11 Nomura Research Institute aaaaa Contents ▶ Top Message We believe it is important that the favorable macro environment surrounding the IT services industry does not make us complacent, and that we carry out management with humility and self-reflection. Aimed for Vision of the Medium-Term Management Plan (2019-2022) New Social Issues and NRI’s Mission challenges faced by clients. At the same time, we would like to resolve social issues by creating new social value with As digitization progresses rapidly in recent years, the our clients. Doing so is to raise and resolve social issues, or concerns of many Japanese companies in dealing with DX implementing exactly what is found in our corporate philosare becoming more serious. While understanding the need ophy – “Discerning new social paradigms and assuming the for DX, there are companies that are unable to embark on role of implementing such paradigms.” This is a philosophy required efforts due to fears regarding the impact that they that NRI has valued and passed down to the next genermay have on existing businesses. There are also cases in ation ever since its founding. Engaging in the resolution of which a sufficient structure for DX cannot be built because social issues is NRI’s mission, and we believe that it also of a shortage of internal human resources well versed in leads to opportunities for growth. information technology. Furthermore, as found in the concern over the 2025 Digital Cliff – described in the DX Report The “Dream Up the Future” Corporate Philosophy, published by the Ministry of Economy, Trade and Industry and CSV (METI) – many companies are trapped in slow, outdated and black-boxed core systems (i.e., legacy systems). This The concept of CSV*, which has come into focus in recent makes the promotion of DX utilizing new digital technolyears, is about turning attention to social issues, generating ogy even more difficult to implement. In the future, these business opportunities through a company’s main business issues may lead to a slowdown of the competitiveness activities, and achieving corporate growth and a sustainable of Japanese companies, depletion of human resources, future. To achieve sustainable growth, it is indispensable and lost business opportunities. Amid such environmental that a company creates both social and economic value, changes, there is high expectation placed on NRI and its and carries out management from a long-term perspective. Con-Solution strengths. NRI will respond solidly to the The “Dream up the future” corporate philosophy – advocated Long-term Management Vision “Vision2022” Vision Statement The diverse variety of personnel within the NRI Group joins together to pool their collective effort, Share and share the achievements and joy of contributing to a vibrant future society together with our clients. With the mentality of being ahead of the times we pioneer globally, digitally, and into the realm of Next the future, to create new business models for the next generation. We refine our strengths and create value by providing various types of services to clients and to society, Values giving birth to new future-minded business models. Integrated Report 2019 12 NRIグループ内外の多様な人材が手を携えて総力を結集し、お客様とともに Top Message by NRI since around the time of founding – encapsulates ahead of the times, and to solidly create value and provide Top Message the Company’s commitment to contributing to the resolution them to society and clients – is declared in our V2022 Vision of social issues and creating a better tomorrow through the Statement, “Share the Next Values!” power of innovation. This commitment contains the concept In addition to the financial targets of V2022 and the of CSV. Each NRI Group employee shares the thinking that non-financial target, Materiality for sustainable growth, that the continued enhancement of NRI’s corporate value can is linked to NRI’s growth strategy, CSV initiatives have also be found only through its resolution of social issues. been newly included in the recently formulated the Medium*Creating Shared Value Term Management Plan (2019–2022) as Solving social issues through value co-creation. Among them, social value NRI Sustainability Management created through all NRI businesses have been defined as the NRI Group’s 3 Social Values. They will be incorporated Our will to “Dream up the future” is in our DNA and has into the PDCA cycle of management, monitored, and been inherited by V2022, which was announced in April promoted as NRI Sustainability Management that enables 2015. Our commitment – to contribute to creating a thriving both the continued growth of NRI and building sustainable future society with our clients, to pioneer globally, digitally, futures. and into the realm of the future with the spirit of being NRI Sustainability Management Policy NRI growth Building sustainable futures Corporate philosophy “Dream up the future” NRI sustainability management •Solving social issues through value co-creation (CSV) Co-create a thriving future society by driving new value. Co-create an ideal society Co-create a safe and by effectively utilizing its resources. secure society by advancing its infrastructure. •Vision2022 financial targets Operating profit ¥100 billion •Materiality for sustainable growth Operating profit margin 14% or more Reduction of environmental impact Provision of opportunities for all kinds Overseas sales ¥100 billion for preserving global environment of professionals to take on challenge ROE 14% Compliance with laws, regulations and risk Management of the informationsystems management to increase trust from society that form social infrastructure NRI’s 3 Social Values Key NRI Initiatives Related SDGs Business model transformation Economic development that inspires Co-create a thriving DX consulting & analytics feelings of fulfillment D2C, DX for financial services future society Cross-sector cooperation, new market entry support by driving new value. Policy proposals for society & systems, information & knowledge sharing to promote global discussion & action in all sectors Business process transformation Sustainable production and consumption Co-create an ideal society Strategy/Operations/System Consulting Resource optimization with ASP by effectively utilizing its resources. “THE STAR”, “BESTWAY” and other proprietary business platform solutions IT infrastructure transformation Strong, flexible infrastructure to support Co-create a safe and Cybersecurity business social development Cloud & Data Center managed services secure society Stable service operation by advancing its infrastructure. Disaster prevention & reduction policy recommendation & Disaster recovery support 13 Nomura Research Institute Contents ▶ Top Message The “Con-Solution model” is something that cannot be easily offered by other companies, and we use this strength as ammunition to provide robust support to the digital transformation of our clients. Growth Strategy of the Medium-Term Management Plan (2019–2022) The Three Growth Strategies With one of Japan’s largest consulting divisions, NRI possesses expert consulting capabilities for various indusIn April 2019, we launched a new Medium-Term Management tries and operating processes. Under the Con-Solution Plan for the achievement of V2022, with the last fiscal year model, consultants and system engineers work as a single of the Plan as the finish line. Financial targets of the Plan team to support clients. The consultants provide the expeinclude net sales of over ¥670 billion, an operating profit of rience and expertise that they have accumulated through ¥100 billion, and overseas sales of ¥100 billion. Strategies long-term business relationships with industries and clients. that lead to growth of the business by leveraging our System engineers, meanwhile, provide capabilities in the strengths and resolving social issues have also been formulatest technologies while keeping utility in mind. This is lated and positioned as growth strategies toward achievesomething that cannot be easily offered by other compament of the financial targets. The three strategies are (1) nies, and we use this strength as ammunition to provide DX Strategy, (2) Global Strategy, and (3) Human Resources robust support to the digital transformation of our clients. Strategy. They will be implemented as we aim to Co-create In our Business Platform Strategy, with a focus on Social Value with our clients. the financial sector, we will further expand shared online services that NRI has fostered over many years, such as DX Strategy THE STAR and BESTWAY, for the nonstrategic areas of our clients. For our clients who will be entering the financial As digitization accelerates changes in society and consumer services business from other industries to meet transformabehavior, there is a great need for DX partners who can tions in the industry structure, we will provide new business leverage technologies and provide comprehensive support, platforms as support for the swift creation of new businesses from strategy formulation to solution implementation, for the and advancements into new markets. transformation of business processes and models. In our Cloud Strategy, we will boost the agility of our Growth Strategy of Medium-Term Management Plan (2019-2022) Main strategies Use technology to transform customer business models and processes DX •Offer comprehensive support through DX from front-office to core systems to develop large-scale customers Business Evolve business platforms (BPFs) in finance platform •Additional expansion of BPFs that cater to IT structure reform and new entry Modernize legacy systems by using cloud Cloud •Comprehensive support from diversifying system platforms to application development Achieve more global business growth, seeking sales of ¥100 billion Global •Expand business base, centered on external growth in Australia and North America Strategic recruiting, talent development and collaboration with partners to Human bolster NRI’s competitiveness resources •Increase mid-career recruiting, offer diverse workstyles, etc. Integrated Report 2019 14 Top Message clients’ businesses and achieve the optimization of their IT of the global business and ensure proper governance. Our Top Message costs by modernizing outdated and slow legacy systems*1, administrative structure, such as human resources, legal afdeveloping cloud-native applications, and other means. fairs and risk management, that meets global standards will *1 Modernizing legacy systems refers to optimizing and modernizing system be strengthened along with the expansion of our business. platforms and applications. *2 IT managed services purchase clients’ software assets and migrate them to a cloud environment, then provide IT services that also include system maintenance and repair. Global Strategy In addition to our existing bases in Asia, we will also make Human Resources Strategy Australia and North America – where business bases were developed in the previous Medium-Term Management Hiring and cultivating human resources who are capable Plan – primary regions of focus. We will promote business of supporting the digital era and achieving success are expansion based on external growth, such as M&A. indispensable to promote the expansion of the DX business Australia – with its population increase, a higher growth that will lead client businesses to success and resolve social rate of the IT services market as compared with Japan, issues. A DX business project team comprises a business and active adoption of new technologies, such as cloud designer (who develops the business model concept), a computing – is a very attractive market. The provision of data scientist (who extracts from data, information involved consistent IT managed services*2 is now possible with in a business and carries out analysis), and application and the acquisition of SMS (and its strengths in consulting platform engineers (who design applications and system services) by the ASG Group (which has strengths in the IT platform architecture). Furthermore, a leader who not only infrastructure services). With the ASG Group at the center, understands business and IT but can hold a dialogue with we will aim to establish ourselves in the Australian market. the person responsible at the client is necessary to serve at Meanwhile, in North America, we will promote business the center of the team. expansion through the acquisition of high value-added IPs Human resources with such diverse skills will be secured in the digital realm. not only by hiring specialists but also strategically cultivatIn regard to external growth through M&A and other ing them in-house. In April 2019, we created a program means, which is required to expand our global business, to cultivate DX human resources. The development of there is no change in our policy – to aim to capture client capabilities required to promote the DX business – such bases and acquire competitive IPs, rather than simply puras analytics, blockchain, agile software development and sue size expansion. We are assuming M&A investments of cloud computing – is being carried out powerfully across over ¥50 billion during the four years between the fiscal year the whole company. Furthermore, we will be increasing our ending March 2020 and the fiscal year ending March 2023. collaboration with business partners who possess DX and This is higher than those made during the previous Mediumother technologies. Term Management Plan. As an environment where differing human resources with In April 2019, we launched the Global Headquarters specialist knowledge and capabilities work, the approach setup as an organization that will support the acceleration taken at NRI is more than simply promoting employee Medium-Term Management Plan (2019-2022) Financial Targets Vision2022 Medium-Term Management Plan Medium-Term Management Plan (2016-2018) (2019-2022) (billions of yen) 100.0 71.4 76.0 65.1 670.0 or more Operating profit 58.2 58.5 530.0 100.0 471.4 501.2 Sales 421.4 424.5 61.0 43.5 53.0 Overseas sales 14.6 18.9 16.3 17.3 18.3 19.3 20.3 21.3 22.3 23.3 (Plan) FY Mar. 2019 (Results) FY Mar. 2023 (Targets) EBITDA margin 21.7% 20% or more ROE 12.3% 14% 15 Nomura Research Institute Contents ▶ Top Message The NRI Group will work as one and keep endeavoring to create, through its businesses, social value that is distinctive of NRI as well as continue to contribute to building sustainable futures. diversity in areas like nationality and lifestyle. It is about reform, including greater participation by women and senior creating an environment of inclusion where the unique, personnel, and creating an environment that is friendly to individual strengths of each employee come together to persons with disabilities. form group strengths. We will thereby promote work-style Emphasis on Quality that Fulfills NRI’s Corporate Social Responsibility While we will, as mentioned, promote initiatives that boldly information security incidents will all be caught. launch challenges and take risks, there are also areas where Assuring at the system development phase that no failure is simply not an option. The data centers operated by large-scale unforeseen, loss-making events will occur is the NRI support the business continuity of clients who provide basic condition when rolling out management measures financial or product distribution functions. The data centers for growth. The Quality Management Division, which is in store businesses’ classified information as well as personal charge of company-wide project management, will take the and other sensitive information, and all possible measures lead in deliberation at the proposal and quotation stage to must be taken, around the clock and throughout the year, in ensure the adequateness of projects. It will also strengthen their operation. Sophisticated information security managethe management of knowledge related to project management must be in place. To ensure the safety and security of ment. The Division will thoroughly implement project risk our data centers, operational quality is enhanced on a daily management based on the quality management system basis. We execute training to prepare our employees on that has been cultivated by NRI over the years. the proper responses to take in the event of any problems. Kaizen (continuous improvement) is carried out every More than 3,000 inspections and drills are carried out each day in such ways so that NRI may fulfill its corporate social year to make sure that any warning signs of failures and responsibility. Continuous Enhancement of Corporate Value and Promotion of Dialogue with Stakeholders To achieve the continuous growth of NRI, we will not only long-term strategies and financial targets through V2022 invest the profits and cash that have been generated toand medium-term management plans. As part of these ward mediumto long-term business growth but also return efforts, we held our first ESG briefing in February 2019, them to shareholders. We have been further increasing our describing how we implement our corporate philosophy capital efficiency, including completion in November 2018 as well as introducing our efforts related to sustainability of the acquisition of roughly ¥30 billion in treasury stock. management and environmental, social and corporate In June 2019, we announced the acquisition of treasury governance. We will continue to strengthen our dialogue stock worth ¥160 billion through tender offer. We will also with our stakeholders. continue to consider a dividend payout ratio that is suitable The fiscal year ending March 2020 is the first year of the to NRI’s growth stage. Medium-Term Management Plan (2019–2022). The NRI Group NRI has also been promoting constructive dialogue with will work as one and keep endeavoring to create, through its stakeholders, briefing them of our efforts toward the conbusinesses, social value that is distinctive of NRI as well as tinued enhancement of NRI’s corporate value in an easily continue to contribute to building sustainable futures. understood manner. It includes presenting our mediumto We ask for your continued understanding and support. Integrated Report 2019 16 Value Creation Process NRI identifies future social issues and creates new value via efforts to solve them. We execute business NRI’s Value Creation models by defining optimal business domains (business segments) and business models while flexibly responding to changes in the business environment, and then injecting the various types of capital required. Human Capital/Intellectual Social and Relationship •NRI’s Capitals Capital P.29/P.31-32/P.57-62 Capital P.30 (Input) Global employees network Shared online services which have the •NRI Group employees: 12,578 persons leading market share Employees at overseas bases: 3,574 persons •THE STAR (for retail brokerage firms): 73 firms •BESTWAY (for banks): 114 firms Investment supporting high degree of specialization Close cooperation with domestic and •Annual training expenses overseas business partners per employees (non-consolidated): ¥470,000 •Partners in Japan: Approx. 7,000 persons •Research and development •Partners in China: Approx. 4,000 persons expenses: ¥3.6 billion *The figures are as of the fiscal year ended March 2019 or at the end of March 2019. •Business Domain P.39-40 •Business Model •Future social issues and changes Global expansion Four business segments New overseas business Consulting in the business environment Internal support Financial IT Solutions Asia / Pacific Internal support Industrial IT Solutions Domestic Enhance & enlarge core businesses P.19-20 IT Platform Services P.21-22 Existing business models Human resources management P.57-62 Envornmental Corporate governance P.63-82 Corporate philosophy P.1-4 17 Nomura Research Institute Contents ▶ The resulting solutions and services provided to customers contribute to a thriving future society and help NRI’s Value Creation achieve the “Vision2022” Long-term Management Vision that NRI is aiming for. Repeating this series of processes builds robust competitive advantages for NRI and achieves continuous improvement of corporate value, which in turn further strengthens our capital and leads to attempts to solve new social issues. Manufacturing Capital P.79-82 Financial Capital P.33-36 Natural Capital P.53-56 System development quality (NRI-QMS) Solid financial foundation Environmental management system •The international standard ISO9001 •Equity ratio: 67.1％ •EMS coverage rate certification acquired •Rating: (based on CO2 emissions): 92.9% -Rating and Investment Information (R&I): AA-Data centers: ISO14001 certification acquired Data center’s operational quality -S&P Global Ratings Japan: A -Offices: NRI-EMS introduced •The global certification M&O* approved (three data centers in Japan) Capital reserves for flexible investments Reducing greenhouse gas emissions *Global standards for evaluating data centers by the •Free cash flows: ¥39.5 billion •FY March 2019 (Results): -38.2% Uptime Institute, a private U.S. entity. (Compared with FY March 2014） High capital efficiency to achieve both growth and returns •ROE: 12.3％ •Long-term •Value provided P.41-48 Management Vision to society “Vision2022” Co-create a thriving Vision statement future society Accelerate by driving new value. globalization Strive to create a future of continuous new value generation that leads to an abundant and safe P.23 society where all benefit. Medium-Term Co-create an ideal society IoT Cloud AI Management Plan by effectively utilizing its resources. (2019-2022) (FY Mar. 2020Strive to build a more livable society for all people Create & expand by efficiently utilizing society’s main resources of FY Mar. 2023) manpower, goods, capital and intellectual DX business property to develop dynamic, strong industry. Greater P.25-28 P.24 customer numbers & business New business models growth Co-create a safe and secure society by advancing its infrastructure. Strive to build a society safe and secure from management P.53-56 accidents and disasters by strengthening cyber-security for information systems and other core social infrastructure. Integrated Report 2019 18 Opportunities and Risks due to Changes in the External Environment Changes to the Business Environment NRI’s Value Creation Surrounding NRI Opportunities and Threats due to Changes in the Business Environment, and NRI’s Business Model Chanegs to the social Client (corporate) Opportunities and threats to NRI environment management issues Japan Making existing work and systems Opportunity more efficient Decreasing population/Work-style Reform This will become a business opportunity for There are concerns that a decreasing labor pool due to a Making inefficient existing systems based on old IT providing IT services for customer system low birthrate and an aging population will shrink Japan’s technology efficient by utilizing new technologies, optimization, such as system modernization markets and reduce the competitiveness of Japanese and combining this with reforms of existing work using new technologies, and NRI shared online companies. Meanwhile, the Japanese government has processes to save labor and make back office work services that relieve customers from the burden designated work-style reform as a priority policy, and is more efficient, while also reducing system costs. of in-house system development and operation. rectification of long working hours and promoting increased labor productivity. Japan/Overseas Promoting DX (digital transformation) Opportunity Accelerating evolution of IT technology Aiming to build competitive advantages and Customers require a partner that can lead Advances in IT are giving birth to new digital technologies improve the top line via aggressive IT investment business transformations via unified such as artificial intelligence (AI) and IoT, and leading to for transforming business models by using new IT strategy/work/IT assistance, which is an the rapid digitization of society. On the other hand, as technologies. opportunity for NRI to demonstrate its indicated by the “2025 Digital Cliff” concept in a report* competitive advantages to lead to solutions via published by the Ministry of Economy, Trade and Industry, the integration of consulting and IT solutions. many companies have old and slow backbone systems that have become black boxes and it is difficult for these companies to utilize digital technologies. Overseas Expanding overseas IT investment Opportunity Relative expansion of the scales of the overseas The need for IT investment at overseas companies It is also an opportunity for NRI to expand our market including Japanese companies operating overseas overseas client base by aiming at the need for In the economic forecast published by the World Bank in is expanding in overseas markets where high IT investment in overseas markets. June 2019, the actual GDP growth rate of the world economic growth is achieved. On the other hand, Opportunities for obtaining competitive IP economy between 2019 and 2021 is expected to be the need for corporate IT investment in the overseas will also increase. between 2.6 and 2.8%. On the other hand, it is expected Japanese market may relatively contract in the to between 0.6% and 0.8% in Japan for the same period. medium to long term. * “DX Report: Overcoming of ‘2025 Digital Cliff’ Involving IT Systems and the Full-fledged Development of Efforts for DX” by the Ministry of Economy, Trade and Industry Risks Receiving Many Questions from Investors and NRI’s Response Measures Risks Response measures •Expanding DX projects directly linked with management issues that are not affected by economic fluctuations Influence of varying demand ▶ Consulting and IT solutions segments work together to expand our business for high-priority themes such as business model transformation in the field of DX for IT investment •Building a stable income structure via the expansion of shared online services Possibility of income rapidly decreasing ▶ Maintain a high level (more than 60%) of stable business with a high rate of retention, such as shared online services, operation due to economic fluctuations and the outsourcing, and enhancement (maintenance/operation) update cycle of IT investment •Enhance both new graduate and mid-career recruiting to increase the number of employees (non-consolidated) by 1,000 or more in the four year period of the Medium-Term Management Plan (2019–2022) Bottlenecks in development •Control the turnover rate by providing employees with opportunities for growth and establishing the human human resources resources system and labor environment ▶ As a result, also ensure reserve resources to handle increased demand The possibility of bottlenecks to •Maintain good trading relationships with excellent cooperating companies in Japan and overseas, and enable expanding revenue due to insufficient production that overcomes the limitations of NRI’s resources development resources caused by ▶ Conclude e-partnership agreements with highly specialized cooperating companies to continue improving quality and productivity a sudden increase of orders together •Implement company-wide human resource management that transcends business segments, based on order trends 19 Nomura Research Institute Contents ▶ NRI flexibly corrects the value creation process according to environmental changes. NRI’s Value Creation We include business policies for continuing sustainable growth in medium to long-term management plans and fiscal year plans upon understanding changes in the social environment and customer company needs, as well as opportunities and threats for NRI. NRI’s business model (business policy) Threat Enhance & enlarge core businesses Conventional system development work targeting back office work may become less We will provide higher added value by expanding our shared profitable unless services with high added-value online service business, which are our strength, while can be provided, due to the need for customers to reduce costs. comprehensively assisting the customer regarding work process reforms and system structure reforms by utilizing new IT technologies. Threat Create & expand DX business Although DX-related IT investment for transforming business models continues to With the integration of consulting and IT solutions, we will increase, there is a risk of the environment commit to the business of our customers via investments and surrounding customer businesses changing dramatically, including rapid changes in IT share the risk and reward, while comprehensively assisting the technology. customer in everything from building business models in the field of DX to system construction. Threat Accelerate globalization Failing to address the need for IT investment overseas, which is expected to increase in the By mainly focusing on the Australian and North American future, will lead to NRI losing growth markets, we will aim to expand our business base with external opportunities. The ability of NRI to grow may also be limited by long-term contraction of the growth via M&A, etc. In Australia we will aim to establish a Japanese market. position as an IT solution vendor and in North America we will expand our business for the goal of obtaining competitive IP. Risks Response measures •Focus on providing services with high added-value instead of price competition Intensification of price ▶Thoroughly understand the strategy/work/IT of a specific customer and provide assistance that fits the needs of that customer competition and other aspects comprehensively and in the medium to long-term in order to achieve differentiation of the competitive environment •Shared online services build superiority with the largest market share ▶Provide complete and definite operation and cost reduction benefits while maintaining added-value such as swift handling of legal The possibility of revenue being system changes suppressed through the appearance of competing services or price competition in consulting and IT solutions business •Invest research and development expenses in a stable manner and continue investment in technology Delays in responding to ▶ Identify trends in cutting-edge technology through industry-academia collaboration with MIT and Stanford University technical innovation ▶ Be the first to gain knowledge in new technology through proof of concepts (PoC) testing with industry-leading clients •Enhance cultivation of human resources with a high degree of specialization that can understand and utilize The possibility that rapid evolution of new technologies digital technology, cloud technology, etc., ▶ Enrich training courses and internal certification systems in order to cultivate advanced human resources that can lead business will make NRI’s software and data in the field of DX center services obsolete Integrated Report 2019 20 Business Model Enhance & Enlarge Core Businesses NRI’s Value Creation NRI has developed the unique “Navigation × Solution” business model, where it provides an integrated service which starts from “Navigation,” which guides clients from problem discovery to solution strategies by consulting, to “Solution,” which implements a solution by system development and management, and other means. As necessary, the two work together in the “Navigation × Solution” business model. One of the culminations of the “Navigation × Solution” business model is NRI’s shared online services. Furthermore, in recent years we have been expanding our scope of services to include utility services that combine IT solutions such as shared online services and business process-outsourcing (BPO) services for peripheral work. Services Provided Major Service Content Navigation •Future forecasts/suggestion activities related to the economy, society, industry, etc. Future forecasts/ •Communication of information through publishing activities, media coverage, social recommendations symposia, etc. •Support for corporate management strategy/individual strategy formulation Management consulting •Support for proposal of policies for national government and public offices (Examples) Medium to long-term plans, yearly plans, new business plans, M&A •Support for execution of corporate strategy Operational Consulting •Support for implementation of the policies of national government and public offices (Examples) Project management, business process creation, execution support •Formulation of IT system strategy for national government and public offices System consulting •Support for planning and execution of business reform utilizing IT •Establishment of IT governance at individual global sites Solution •Planning, design, and development of information systems Systems consulting Planning, selection, and creation of necessary hardware (servers, network devices) and software (OS, middleware, software packages) System management •Safe operation and maintenance of developed systems outsourcing System monitoring, troubleshooting just in case, renovation for stable operation of systems •Broad provision of systems developed by NRI to multiple clients as Shared online services “shared online services” •Be entrusted with IT solution such as shared online service together with Utility services outsourcing for peripheral work (BPO) services (IT solutions+ BPO services) (Examples) Data input, form output/sending, client account management work, etc. 21 Nomura Research Institute Contents ▶ Shared Online Services NRI’s Value Creation NRI has served the needs of clients in the financial industry and provided innovative solutions for a long time. The product of this accumulated expertise is the shared online services. Shared online services consist of creation of software incorporating the technology and expertise cultivated through building systems for individual clients, with the client’s required work standardized, and providing it as SaaS*. Shared online services allow for greater cost reductions when compared to constructing a system for each company. It also alleviates the burden of adapting to regulatory revisions. As an industry pioneer, NRI has provided these services since the 1970s, even before the term “cloud” existed, and has been far ahead of its competitors, supporting the “shift from ownership to use” of information systems for over 40 years. *Software as a Service: a type of service in which software located on a private NRI cloud is provided via the Internet Utility Services (IT solutions + BPO services) Utility services are provided in combination with NRI’s IT solutions such as shared online services and BPO services. In recent years, some clients have consolidated management resources in sales department or planning departments, and have begun to outsource back-office departments themselves. NRI provides the entire business process with the personnel who handle related work, not just the system. Major Shared Online Services Launched in 1974 Launched in 1997 THE STAR Back-office solution for 73 firms BESTWAY Back-office solution for 114 firms* *Including life insurance firms, non-life insurance firms, and retail brokerage firms mutual fund sales at banks investment trust firms, etc. Launched in 1987 Launched in 2012 I-STAR Back-office solution for wholesale brokerage firms 28 firms Value Direct Online banking system 18 firms Launched in 1993 Launched in 2015 No. of My Number stored T-STAR Back-office solution for asset management firms 78 firms e-BANGO My Number Approx. management services 16 million cases Note: As of March 31, 2019. Major Utility Services For retail brokerage firms For asset management firms For financial institutions / (investment trust and investment advisory firms) operating companies NRI provides the shared online service “THE STAR,” NRI provides the shared online service “T-STAR,” NRI provides “e-BANGO” as My Number storage/ and DSB Co., Ltd. provides comprehensive support and NRI Process Innovation, Ltd. provides the overall management system with high management services. They range from trade execution, clearing, middle/ back-office work, such as standard price standards, based on our experience operating settlement, account management, account transfer calculation for asset management firms (investment backbone systems for financial institutions. DSB Co., and other financial services carried out on behalf of trusts and investment advisory firms, etc.) and other Ltd. provides services for the collection, registration, securities companies, to securities back-office works, investment trust accounting work and investment management, and use of individual numbers. printing, envelope insertion and mailing services. report creation work. Shared online service BPO services Shared online service BPO services My Number BPO services management THE STAR DSB T-STAR NRI Process service DSB × × Innovation e-BANGO × Integrated Report 2019 22 Business Model Accelerate Globalization NRI’s Value Creation NRI implements global business on the premise of the solid competitive advantage of a client base and competitive IPs cultivated over many years of experience. Since NRI differentiates via high added value, we do not perform M&A that aims to simply expand the scale, and instead are expanding our business base via external growth in North America, Australia, and Asia. Business Base Expanding Globally Region Company name Company overview ASG Group (made a Group company in 2016) Australia An IT managed service that lifts out on-premises customer software assets to cloud environments. In 2017, ASG Group acquired SMS, whose strength is consulting, and started unified management from 2018. Brierley+Partners (made a Group company in 2015) The founder was the person who designed and operated the first mileage program at a U.S. airline. BRIERLEY LOYALTYWARE™, an integrated loyalty program solution, including all necessary functions, such as membership registration for clients, recording and tracking clients’ action history, North acquiring points and mileage as well as redeeming points, and other solutions. America Cutter Associates (made a Group company in 2016) Cutter Associates has strength in research and consulting in the U.S. asset management industry and has the largest client base in the country, including over 200 firms such as asset management firms, insurance firms and pension funds. NVANTAGE (established in 2018) Robustly assists and promotes operational reforms focused on the wholesale departments of Asia global financial institutions, via the integration of the financial know-how of Nomura Holdings, Inc. and the provision of human resources, IT solutions, and BPO services by NRI. Expanding Our Business Base in Australia As a key player that leads the IT market in Australia, the ASG Group (ASG) has expanded its business base by providing large-scale IT outsourcing over a long period, focusing on government and major private companies. It entered the NRI Group as the core of our global business in December 2016, and merged SMS in 2017 and has grown into a Tier 1 corporation with approximately 2,000 employees in Australia. •History of ASG •Business Profile of ASG (As of the end of June 2018) M&T Other (human resource IT managed 19% dispatching) services Government 18% Composition 36% Composition 47% 1996 1986 of sales Telecommunications of sales 8% Established in Perth Established in Melbourne Advisory by service by sector 16% Construction/ Solution Resources 30% 11% Financial 15% •Strengths of ASG Joined the NRI Group •Excellent client base in government, financial, telecommunications, in December 2016 Good client base and resource industries •Maintain long-term and stable relationships Wide range of experience •Experience with large-scale IT managed services mainly for government providing IT managed •Quality, mobility, and additional proposals supported by customers services (Rate of contract renewal: 95% or higher) ASG bought SMS and Flexible community-based •Sales reps are community-based and flexible merged to form a new ASG business operation •Operations made efficient across regions in September 2017 23 Nomura Research Institute Contents ▶ Create & Expand DX Business NRI’s Value Creation Achieving a DX business requires a strategic partner that provides swift implementation while transforming work processes and business models at the same time as transforming IT infrastructure and discussing things together. NRI has the human resources and functions required for both consulting and IT solutions and provides “Con-Solution” for creating a DX business via repeated hypothesis testing side-by-side with the customer. DX Strategy Business model Build cross-industry platforms that seeks ecosystems DX2.0 transformation •Establishing services and providing functionality in particular fields Digitalize actions for end users Digital front office •Helping customers execute D2C strategies •CRM, digital marketing, etc. Process transformation Digitalize actions within customer companies DX1.0 Digital •SCM reforms such as inventory optimization back office •Operational efficiency improvements using AI, RPA, etc. •Industry standard business platforms, etc. Enhance infrastructure such as cloud, security Infrastructure •Supporting migration from on-premises to cloud transformation •Managed services for system platforms •Security business mainly focused on NRI SecureTechnologies, Ltd. (NRI Secure), etc. DX2.0 Business Model Transformation Expanding via Co-creation with Customers Major initiatives Business overview Bit Realty, Inc. •With Kenedix, Inc., established a joint venture for operating an investment-type Established: June 26, 2017 crowdfunding platform related to real estate and infrastructure investment Capital: ¥495 million •Created system for using the power of digitization to provide various investors with opportunities (Kenedix: 80.1%; NRI: 19.9％) for investing in real estate, which was conventionally limited to institutional investors KDDI Digital Design Inc. •With KDDI CORPORATION, established a joint venture for assisting digital Established: December 15, 2017 transformation at companies Capital: ¥7 billion •Assistance for everything from planning business strategies and validating their commercialization (KDDI: 51％; NRI: 49％） to building and operating the network infrastructure and developing the required systems Technium CO., LTD. Established: January 9, 2018 •With DMG MORI CO., LTD., established joint venture for assisting the high level Capital: ¥300 million utilization of production facilities in factories, etc. using digital technologies. (DMG MORI: 66.6%; NRI: 33.4%) NDIAS, Ltd. •DENSO CORPORATION and NRI Secure established a joint venture in the automobile cybersecurity Established: December 3, 2018 business Capital: ¥100 million •Provides security assessment and consulting services, etc., for vehicles and on-board electronic (DENSO: 50%; NRI Secure: 50%) devices for the automobile industry in the age of connected cars and autonomous driving JAL Digital Experience Co., Ltd. •With Japan Airlines Co., Ltd. (JAL), established a joint venture for creating services for proposing Established: February 4, 2019 lifestyle personalization and enrichment in customers' daily lives and at travel destinations, Capital: ¥475 million rather than simply while using aircraft (JAL: 51%; NRI Group: 49%) Integrated Report 2019 24 Medium-Term Management Plan (2019-2022) Our Medium-Term Management Plan (2019-2022) is the last four-year plan toward the final goal of our NRI’s Value Creation “Vision2022” Long-term Management Vision, and is also the NRI growth strategy for creating a sustainable future society. Three Growth Strategies Although many Japanese companies recognize the effecGrowth Strategy of Medium-Term Management Plan (2019-2022) tiveness and necessity of DX*, there are many cases where Main strategies they are unable to start working on it due to a lack of human resources in IT or a lack of reward due to a conflict of Use technology to transform customer business DX models and processes interests with existing business. Furthermore, as mentioned in the DX Report of the Ministry of Economy, Trade and Business Evolve business platforms in finance Industry, outdated/black-boxed legacy systems are hinplatform dering the growth of companies across the entire industrial Cloud Modernize legacy systems by using cloud world, and this is raising concerns of a “2025 Digital Cliff” where competitiveness will be lost, IT human resources will dry up, and business opportunities will be lost. Achieve more global business growth, Global seeking sales of ¥100 billion In order to sincerely address these new challenges faced Strategic recruiting, talent development and by our customers and society at large, NRI has defined Human collaboration with partners to bolster NRI’s the three growth strategies of (1) DX Strategy, (2) Global resources competitiveness Strategies, and (3) Human Resources Strategies in the Medium-Term Management Plan (2019-2022) in order to solve these problems via the co-creation of new value with customers. * Digital transformation: Work process transformation and business model transformation by utilizing digital technologies DX Strategy •Becoming a DX Partner for Continuous Business Expansion Developments in technology have led to expanded initiatives for increased business by utilizing digital technologies. NRI is constructing competitive advantages by utilizing our strength of combining consulting and IT solutions. The DX business of NRI defines “DX1.0” as DX that contributes to work process transformations in existing businesses and “DX2.0” as DX that generates new business models themselves via digital technologies. In the field of “DX1.0” we promote a large number of initiatives for advancing infrastructure such as cloud and security infrastructure, as well as making client work and IT assets more efficient by utilizing digital technologies. In the field of “DX2.0” we establish joint ventures with customers and companies that have advanced technologies and promote the creation of new businesses utilizing digital technologies via collaboration. Around 2017, which was during the previous Medium-Term Management Plan, investment in DX started at a wide range of companies, with a sudden increase in IT investment for business model and work process transformation utilizing digital technologies, focused on customers in industries such as distribution, manufacturing, and services. This is expected to continue to expand across industries in the next four years, and NRI aims to become a DX partner for society and corporations in order to create social value and expand business via DX assistance. Business Expansion in DX Strategy DX2.0: DX to transform business models themselves DX2.0 Business model Build cross-industry platforms that seek ecosystems transformation •Comprehensive support from building business models to building systems •Commit to the business of customers, and share the risks and rewards DX1.0: DX that helps transform business processes Process (including business platforms and cloud) transformation Digitalize business models, make IT resources more efficient DX1.0 •Deliver D2C (direct to customer) through the optimal mix of packages and individual development •Achieve cost reductions and generate agility through shared online services Infrastructure transformation Enhance infrastructure such as cloud, security •Optimize customer business infrastructure through better modernization, managed services, security, etc. 25 Nomura Research Institute Contents ▶ •Business Platform Strategy NRI’s Value Creation NRI provides shared online services that enable multiple companies to use a single system that standardizes the information systems required for conducting work, based on the accumulation of financial industry know-how over a long period of time. We will aim to expand clients and services by providing new services such as those for handling the paperwork conducted at the back office by financial institutions while expanding the customers that use these services such as “THE STAR” backoffice solution for retail brokerage firms. We will also provide new business platforms for customers that enter the financial industry from other industries due to changes in the industry structure, and promote assistance for creating new customer business and new services. Business Platform Strategy Structure changes in financial industry NRI’s strategy Many Face-to-face-only and Expand core businesses internet-only financial institutions •High quality shared online services Per-person financial assets •For wealthy people (excess funds) with extensive financial knowledge •Outsourcing, mainly BPO service •Finance service charges are main revenue source •New services for digital assets New entrant companies from other industries Launch new services •For the general public with little financial •Lean services through APIs knowledge (small funds) •Services for small funds products •Various revenue sources such as points, •Managed services for IT assets advertising income, etc. Few Few Number of users Many •Cloud Strategy Demand for overall system optimization is increasing due to diversification and sophistication of customer system platforms, such as on-premise usage and utilization of multiple cloud platforms. In order to meet this demand, NRI provides multi-cloud services that enable the centralized management of multiple cloud platforms and managed services that comprehensively assist and optimize entire systems in lieu of customer IT departments. We will also improve our business agility and advanced security for supporting the business of our customers, and achieve cost optimization. Cloud Strategy Managed services Managed services: •Optimize and comprehensively support overall systems on behalf of customer IT departments Public cloud Multi-cloud service Enhanced security: •Deliver high levels of security catered to multiple Security Customer Private cloud system platforms Multi-cloud services: •Offer integrated services to customers which On-premises use multiple cloud platforms Technology to support application development: •Development and application of digital IP (common Technology to support components of applications, digital development kits, etc.) application development Integrated Report 2019 26 Medium-Term Management Plan (2019-2022) Global Strategies NRI’s Value Creation In order to achieve our target of ¥100 billion in overseas sales as indicated in V2022 and our Medium-Term Management Plan (2019-2022), we will execute growth strategies for the three regions of Australia, North America, and Asia/Europe, and accelerate the expansion of our global business base with external growth via M&A, etc. In April 2019, we also established a new Global Headquarters to support our expanding global business. We will link with local holding companies in the various regions to ensure the enhanced governance of overseas subsidiaries. The scope of M&A investment for global business expansion was approximately ¥50 billion over the past three years, and we expect to invest ¥50 billion or more over the next four years. Global strategy Australia Overseas sales / Overseas sales ratio •Seek to be a top-10 Australian IT services company by around FY March 2021 About 15 •Achieve additional external growth in fields where synergies can be anticipated 10.6 100.0 9.2 North America •Acquire high added value IP of companies with advanced 4.5 technologies and expertise 3.5 53.0 43.5 Asia, Europe •Further expand consulting for Japanese and local companies 18.9 in locations throughout Asia 14.6 •Expand outsourcing business geared toward financial institutions, with NVANTAGE at the core 16.3 17.3 18.3 19.3 20.3 23.3 (Targets) Functions of Global Headquarters Overseas sales (billions of yen) •Formulate global strategies and support their execution Overseas sales ratio (%) •Work together with regional controlling companies such as M&A investment (4 years): NRI Australia, and strengthen governance of overseas subsidiaries ¥50 billion or more ASG Group (Australia) Brierley+Partners (North America) NVANTAGE (India) Human Resources Strategies In order to execute these growth strategies toward building sustainable futures, it is essential to lead customer businesses to success and recruit and cultivate human resources that can create new value. In particular, we have an urgent need for securing human resources that can steadily promote our DX Strategy and areas of growth such as global business, and therefore work on enhancing our new graduate and mid-career recruiting, as well as employee training. We will also promote work-style reforms unique to NRI by promoting diversity and cultivating a corporate culture that enables our employees to flourish and take on challenges. Furthermore, we will strengthen our relationships with business partners that have expertise and are wellversed in digital technologies. 27 Nomura Research Institute Contents ▶ Human Resources Strategies NRI’s Value Creation •Increase of 1,000 employees or more (non-consolidated) over four years •Bolster new graduate hiring: Bolster promotions, etc. •Bolster mid-career hiring: Further improve systems of working conditions for the hiring of more specialists, etc. Bolster hiring FY Mar. 2019 FY Mar. 2023 (Plan)* New graduate hires About 300 persons Stable expansion Mid-career hires About 100 persons Double *Non-consolidated Promote employee •Strategically develop business designers, data scientists, and other such personnel skills transfer and development •Skills transfer and development for application/platform personnel to support DX strategy Promote employee •Promote diverse workstyles (diversity, participation and advancement of women and senior success personnel, etc.) More development •Get more development partners which have technologies and expertise in areas such as DX partners Numerical Targets for Medium-Term Management Plan (2019-2022) In the Medium-Term Management Plan (2019-2022), we have disclosed new numeric targets for DX-related sales in order to expand our DX business, in addition to existing financial targets such as net sales, operating profit, operating profit margin, and ROE. We aim to increase the ratio of net sales that DX-related sales account for from approximately 60% (FY March 2019) to approximately 75% (FY March 2023 target). NRI will further enrich disclosure and promote dialog between all of our stakeholders. Medium-Term Management Plan Numerical Targets for (2019-2022) Financial Targets DX-related Sales (billions of yen) Vision2022 Medium-Term Management Medium-Term Management Plan 670.0 or more Plan (2016-2018) (2019-2022) (billions of yen) Other than 100.0 501.2 DX-related 76.0 421.4 Other than 71.4 670.0 65.1 or more 58.2 58.5 DX-related Operating profit 100.0 471.4 501.2 530.0 Other than Sales 421.4 424.5 53.0 61.0 DX-related DX-related sales 43.5 Sales of roughly 75% Overseas sales 14.6 18.9 DX-related sales DX-related sales Sales of roughly 60% Sales of roughly 40% 16.3 17.3 18.3 19.3 20.3 21.3 22.3 23.3 16.3 19.3 23.3 (Plan) (Results) (Results) (Targets) FY Mar. 2019 FY Mar. 2023 Definition of DX-related sales (Results) (Targets) DX•Business platforms such as THE STAR, BESTWAY, T-STAR, etc. EBITDA margin 21.7% 20% or more related •DX consulting & analytics, D2C assistance, CRM, digital marketing ROE 12.3% 14% •Improved work efficiency via RPA, AI, and SCM transformation •Cloud, security, managed services, etc. Other •Conventional consulting other than DX than DX•On-premises + scratch system development related •BPO services, etc. Integrated Report 2019 28 Capital for Creating Value (Competitive Advantages) Competitive Advantages of Human Capital NRI’s Value Creation NRI’s human resources exceed other companies’ levels in the industry both in terms of quality and quantity, and NRI is further improving its human resources by providing them with various opportunities to grow. As a result, NRI maintains high levels of profitability and productivity in the IT service industry. Human Capital NRI provides services in cooperation with employees at its domestic and overseas bases. Diverse Professionals NRI also has an abundance of professionals with advanced information technology, skills, etc. Number of NRI Group Employees and Number of Qualified Professionals (persons) Employees at Overseas Bases (persons) (Non-consolidated data) As of March 31 17.3 18.3 19.3 12,708 12,578 Information Technology Engineers Examination As of March 31 6,398 6,608 6,726 11,605 (Advanced)*1 10,757 IT Coordinator 187 197 207 9,012 Project Management Professional 255 292 299 8,123 ITIL Manager/Expert/Intermediate 70 70 70 Chartered Member of the Securities Analysts Association of Japan 242 245 245 Certified Public Accountant 9 9 16 SME Management Consultant 45 46 46 3,901 3,574 2,945 First-Class Registered Architect 11 10 10 2,243 Chief Telecommunications Engineer 110 107 107 811 898 Public cloud related certification* 2 6 28 94 14.3 15.3 16.3 17.3 18.3 19.3 *1. The Information Technology Engineers Examination is a certification examination administered by the Information-technology Promotion Agency, an independent administrative institution, which is a testing institution designated by the Minister of Economy, Trade and Industry. The figures Number of NRI Group employees include the numbers of persons who have passed the “System Analyst Examination,” “Senior Number of employees at overseas bases Systems Administrator Examination,” “Information Security Specialist Examination,” and “Information Systems Security Administrator Examination,” which were administered under the previous system. *2. Total number of people with AWS certification, Google Cloud (GCP) certification, and Microsoft Certified (Technology Azure). Outcomes NRI maintains top-level profitability (consolidated operating profit margins and EBITDA High Levels of Profitability margin) as well as productivity (consolidated sales and operating profit per employee) and Productivity compared with competitors both in Japan and overseas. Industry-wide Comparison of Consolidated Industry-wide Comparison of Consolidated EBITDA Sales and Operating Profit Margin Sales and Operating Profit per Employee Margin Comparison (%) 15 7 30 Consolidated operating profit per employee (millions of yen) (FY Mar. 2019) (FY Mar. 2019) NRI 6 NRI Consolidated operating profit margin (%) 25 12 SCSK NRI 5 ITOCHU IBM NS Solutions Techno-Solutions 20 TIS Cognizant 9 ITOCHU 4 Techno-Solutions NS Solutions Accenture 15 3 SCSK 6 Nihon Unisys NTT DATA Capgemini TIS Nihon Unisys 10 2 3 5 1 NTT DATA 0 0 0 100 200 300 400 500 2,100 2,200 10 20 30 40 50 60 FY2014 FY2015 FY2016 FY2017 FY2018 Consolidated sales (billions of yen) Consolidated sales per employee (millions of yen) (Source) Compiled by NRI from the above companies’ financial statements. (Source) Compiled by NRI from the above companies’ financial statements. Source: Compiled by NRI from SPEEDA 29 Nomura Research Institute Contents ▶ Competitive Advantages of Social and Relationship Capital NRI’s Value Creation NRI has accumulated its expertise through long-term business relationships with industry leaders. Moreover, by providing shared online services based on that expertise, we have established more sustainable business relationships with more of our clients. Social and Relationship Capital NRI has accumulated its expertise through long-term business relationships with Solid Client Base and industry leaders. Moreover, by providing shared online services based on that expertise, Shared Online Services we have established more sustainable business relationships with more of our clients. System development and Client examples Nomura Securities MS&AD Insurance Group Holdings management and (former Dai-Tokyo Fire & Marine Insurance) ONWARD KASHIYAMA (former Kashiyama) KOKUBU GROUP operation outsourcing SEVEN-ELEVEN JAPAN And many other companies Number of companies using the services as of March 31, 2019 Shared online services THE STAR (for retail brokerage firms) 73 firms I-STAR (for wholesale brokerage firms) 28 firms T-STAR (for asset management firms) 78 firms BESTWAY (for banks, etc.) 114 firms Value Direct (Internet banking) 18 firms NRI established in 1965 1970s 1980s 1990s 2000s 2010s Outcome NRI has established a stable profit structure with sustainable businesses accounting for over 60%, such as shared online services, system management and operation outsourcing Stable Profit Structure as well as enhancements (maintenance and operations) in system development. Sales (billions of yen) 600 Businesses with high exposure to economic cycle Less than 40% ■ Consulting ■ Product sales ■ System development (new) 300 Businesses that generate ongoing earnings Over 60% ■ System development (enhancement) 0 ■ System management 10.3 11.3 12.3 13.3 14.3 15.3 16.3 17.3 18.3 19.3 & operation •Operation outsourcing Consulting Product sales System development & System application sales •Shared online services System management & Operation services (Operation outsourcing/Shared online services) Integrated Report 2019 30 Capital for Creating Value (Competitive Advantages) Competitive Advantages of Intellectual Capital NRI’s Value Creation We promote research and development (hereinafter, “R&D”) with high-quality investigation ability and systems in order to create value unique to NRI with innovations and building sustainable futures by solving social issues. R&D Policy NRI promotes three categories of R&D. The first is business R&D Themes and Initiative Policies development, via research and feasibility investigations, proTheme Initiative policy totype development, and proof of concepts for new business •R&D regarding new business development in the medium to and new product development according to our Medium-Term long-term (business discovery, incubation, etc.) Business Management Plan and “Vision2022” Long-term Management development •R&D for digital transformation activities positioned as important themes, such as artificial intelligence (AI), the Internet of Vision. The second is technological research, via research into Things (IoT), and FinTech. cutting-edge technologies, fundamental technologies, and pro•Technology trend surveys to contribute to the vitalization of duction/development technologies regarding information technolbusiness development and strengthen the technical Technological competitiveness of NRI ogy. The third is recommendations for society, via surveying and research •Technological research regarding future businesses and production innovations, and technologies related to priority themes researching new social systems. •Recommendations for society that contribute to the NRI business In the fiscal year ended March 2019 we placed particular Recommendations •Recommendations that contribute to government institutions and for society emphasis on business development themes and accumulated corporate management commercialization know-how for businesses that will lead to new value creation. R&D System In order to promote R&D across the entire company, we have Organizations Promoting R&D established the Research & Development Committee and promote research and development while cooperating with society Research & Reviews individual R&D projects from a company-wide perspective, Development from planning to result utilization, while proposing and deliberating Theme and other parties outside the company. Committee R&D strategies Initiative policy Furthermore, we have adopted stage gate management in Center for In charge of government policy recommendations and cutting-edge Strategic research functions, and conducts surveys and research regarding order to quickly respond to recent rapid changes in the external Management & new systems for society Innovation environment and cutting-edge technologies, as well as ensuring DX Systems systems that enable us to take on various challenges. We also Development Conducts research into cutting-edge technologies and fundamental Innovation technologies in the field of information technology enhance the internal publishing of R&D results to enable busiDivision ness discovery that utilizes know-how and knowledge across In charge of medium to long-term business development and new Business the entire company. service development, and conducts feasibility investigations, divisions prototype development, and proof of concepts, etc. Stage Gate Management Trends in R&D Expenses (billions of yen/%) Entry Stage #1 Stage #2 Stage #3 1.3 Business assessment committee, etc. 1.2 Business discovery activities 1.1 In-division R&D meeting Entry examination Gate examination Gate examination 1.0 1.0 Process Intermediate Intermediate Intermediate 5.6 0.8 examination examination examination 5.1 5.1 0.7 4.2 4.0 3.9 3.6 Examination/ assistance Professional advisor R&D committee member system •Business environment •Business hypothesis •PoC, ß testing •Initial sales analysis planning •Business hypothesis Major •Client issue identification •Evaluation method evaluation 14.3 15.3 16.3 17.3 18.3 19.3 20.3 •Initial business planning •Business plan creation (Plan) activities hypothesis planning Matching fund with division in charge of commercialization R&D expenses Ratio of R&D expenses to sales 31 Nomura Research Institute Contents ▶ R&D Examples NRI’s Value Creation 2030 Innovator Project We want to bring hope to the future of Japan, which is looking grim due to structural problems such as a rapidly aging society and domestic market maturity. The 2030 Innovator Project (former name: Japan Value Creation Project) was launched based on this idea. The “2030 Japanese Value Creation Department” was established in the Center for Strategic Management & Innovation in 2012, and has since continued to search for ways to create good quality jobs that the next generation of young people can be proud of in the Japan of 2030. Rather than future macro predictions that are inevitably pessimistic, we strive for regional revitalization business, such as “innovation dialog” for 100 innovators, which Joint press conference for the SAN-IN Innovation seeks models that may be able to change future scenarios from amongst the Program held at the head branch of the SAN-IN GODO BANK, LTD. creative endeavors of challengers at the frontline, and also provide “innovation From left to right: Mr. Anjiki, Manager of Regional programs” in various regions over Japan that utilizes that network. Promotion Department and President Ishimaru So far we have conducted business creation innovation programs in areas of the SAN-IN GODO BANK, President Konomoto of NRI, and General Manager Saito of the 2030 such as Hokkaido, Okinawa, and Niigata, and in August 2018 we started the Japanese Value Creation Department SAN-IN Innovation Program to assist entrepreneurs in the Sanin region. Arumon Young Startup Challenge “I want to change the world with IT.” “I want to attempt new things.” Arumon is a young startup challenge that started in 2016, based on the idea of having young people attempt things that NRI has not yet done. They start from scratch to identify user needs, utilize design thinking and UX design, and repeat hypothesis testing in order to create new businesses and services. In March 2018, we held a commercialization process experience program called “StartBootCamp.” Group photo after the program This program has members that belong to various companies and groups form teams and experience entrepreneurialism over a short three-day period in order to experience commercialization process, entrepreneurship, and teamwork, and thereby discover possibilities for new services. NRI will continue to collaborate with other companies and members inside and outside the company in order to promote open innovations. (Left) 60-second idea pitch (Right) Working as a team on production at the venue AI tech lab. Working on Assessing and Utilizing AI Technologies AI tech lab. started in 2017 with the mission of developing solutions and acquiring technologies specializing in AI In the field of AI and its significant technological progress, it is not a simple thing to apply AI technologies such as deep learning to enterprise solutions and convert them into value. Despite AI tech lab. having been launched only recently, it utilizes the deep knowledge that NRI has regarding the industry and work and strives to develop solutions that contribute to customer businesses. In the fiscal year ended March 2019, we developed and prototyped such products as the “Core.” internal material search engine specializing in improving the efficiency of white color work, as well as the “Real Avatar” video/audio “Real Avatar” system for the real-time converconversion solution for video contact centers. Going forward, we will promote sion of faces and voices into those of different people the development of solutions that target industries where labor shortages are becoming more severe, such as retail, and contribute to solving social issues via the creation of new value. Integrated Report 2019 32 Capital for Creating Value (Competitive Advantages) Competitive Advantages of Financial Capital (CFO Message) NRI’s Value Creation Kenji Yokoyama Senior Corporate Managing Director In charge of Supervising of Accounting and Finance With a background of strong cash generation, we aim to quickly recover reduced treasury stock via large-scale treasury stock acquisition and thereby further improve our corporate value via both financial soundness and high capital efficiency. Large-scale Acquisition of Treasury Stock growth, and continue to maintain approximately 5% of the total issued shares as our treasury stock. NRI manages its business focused on both growth and returns with a strong sense of financial regulations and emphasis on capital efficiency, such as including ROE targets in Vision2022 (hereinafter, “V2022”). Maintaining a Healthy Balance Sheet Management and In May 2019, we were contacted by our major shareholder Nomura Financial Regulations Holdings, Inc. regarding their intent to sell some of our shares they hold, and we decided to acquire treasury stock amounting to ¥160 billion. This Although our equity ratio temporarily lowered to the 50% range due to decision was based on adequate investigation into both financial regulautilizing debt from loans, etc., in our large-scale treasury stock acquitions and improving capital efficiency, which we have been keenly away sition conducted in August 2019, we will maintain a capital efficiency of from before. As a result, we believe that this will contribute to further that greatly exceeds a ROE of 14%, which was the target in V2022, and improving the independence of our management, while also enabling us predict that equity ratio in the fiscal year ending March 2023 will be at to improve ROE and EPS and strengthen shareholder return. the same level as the fiscal year ended March 2019 (67.1%). In regard to ROE targets, we will aim for a level higher than the averAt NRI, we conduct management that emphasizes financial regulations age of Japanese companies by reflecting the creation of added value, so that we can maintain our services when unseen circumstances arise, which is at the core of our business model. We have announced that due to the social responsibility born by our information systems that we aim to increase the level from approximately 10% when V2022 was support financial markets and product distribution markets. From the started to 12% by the final fiscal year of the previous Medium-Term perspective of maintaining liquidity, we have a policy of maintaining Management Plan, and 14% by the fiscal year ending March 2023, approximately two to three months’ worth of sales as funds on hand which is the final fiscal year of V2022. We also strove to improve share(cash and cash equivalent). holder value via improved capital efficiency during the three years of the previous Medium-Term Management Plan, such as by acquiring a total Transition of Equity* during the New Medium-Term of approximately ¥90 billion in treasury stock. Management Plan Period (simulation) (As of March 31) We have already achieved a ROE of 12.3% in the fiscal year ended March 2019, and predict the early achievement of the target 14% for the fiscal year ending March 2023 via these return measures. The future Same level ROE level will also be higher than the Western average. as end of ¥410.9 billion March 2019 The subsequent return measures during the period of the new MediumTerm Management Plan focus on dividends, and we will continue our policy of a consolidated dividend payout ratio of 35%, continuously 2019.3 2020.3 2021.3 2022.3 2023.3 increase the annual cash dividends per share according to income *Equity=Net assets – Share subscription rights – Non-controlling interests 33 Nomura Research Institute Contents ▶ Cash in and Cash out during the New Medium-Term Management Plan Period (simulation) NRI’s Value Creation (Plan comparison before/after the large-scale treasury stock acquisition) Simulation of cash generation Cash in Cash out via business activities (four-year total) (four-year total) •Constant capital expenditures No change to (software, etc.) constant capital •Growth expenditures Four-year total: and growth Profit after taxes •Growth investment investment Approx. No change (M&A investment (a portion is investment ¥360 billion and DX-related) repayment Depreciation, etc. reserve) •Stable dividends FY Mar. FY Mar. FY Mar. FY Mar. (recognize dividend payout ratio) 2020 2021 2022 2023 •Returns other than dividends (recognize capital efficiency) Procure via loan, etc. Plan before treasury Plan after treasury Plan before treasury Plan after treasury stock acquisition stock acquisition stock acquisition stock acquisition In regard to procurement, we set an upper limit of 0.3 times for the business management, such as software investment each fiscal year, net D/E ratio, while considering financial stability and diversification shall be conducted within the scope of depreciation and amortization, of capital procurement methods, while maintaining financial soundness and remaining cash flows shall be used for growth investment and the by conducting management that also strongly recognizes that the net return of dividends, etc. The baselines for our medium to long-term interest-bearing debt level is within the range of EBITDA. growth investment in our new Medium-Term Management Plan are With such balance sheet management in mind, we have continuously envisioned to be ¥50 billion for M&A and ¥10 billion for DX-related worked toward making business assets more efficient and non-business investment, and we will remain focused on growth investment after the assets more liquid. With cross-hold shares in particular, we have decreased current large-scale treasury stock acquisition, while also considering the the 19 brands of listed stock at the time of formulating the NRI Corporate utilization of debt where required. Governance Guidelines (at the end of March 2015) to 15 brands (at the When conducting investment business, we will set a hurdle rate (6% end of March 2019) as well as decreasing the amount held by approxibased on yen*) that exceeds capital costs, and make decisions upon mately 20%, and we will continue to verify the rationality of continuous evaluating indices such as IRR (internal rate of return) and rate of holding and decrease them accordingly. operating profit. *Defined separately for foreign currency base in accordance with interest rates and country risks of each country Become a Company that Achieves Stable Cash Generation and Growth with High Capital Efficiency Improve Disclosures, with Consciousness of Global Standards In regard to growth, we place emphasis on sales expansion and stable cash generation, and aim to maintain an EBITDA margin of 20% or In the new Medium-Term Management Plan, we implement measures higher. This is an important index for a listed company. that recognize global standards while taking the same stance regarding Of generated cash flows, regular investment capital required for the disclosure of information. Financial Management Policy Assets Liabilities Cash and cash equivalents Interest-bearing debt (bonds payable/loans) • Required funds in hand are 2 to 3 months of sales • Upper limit of 0.3 times net D/E ratio • Net interest-bearing debt level is within the range of EBITDA Investment securities and business assets/ (emphasis on rating) non-business assets Liabilities • We will hold (and validate efficiency based on capital cost, Retirement benefit assets/debt etc.) an amount of cross-hold shares rational for improved Assets • Substantial on-balance consideration of system assets/ corporate value, and sell them if the rationality of holding Net assets retirement benefit trust (maintain stable system assets) them decreases • For business assets we will set hurdle rates based on Net assets capital costs and the operating profit margin, etc., and Equity make decisions on investment and removal • Suitable capital level considering asset efficiency and capital • We will generally not own office assets efficiency • We process non-continuous assets immediately • Recognize capital efficiency for achieving both growth and return • The retention of treasury stock is about 5% of total issued shares Integrated Report 2019 34 Financial/Non-financial Highlights Our preparations for adopting IFRS, which we started considering in company in Japan to issue green bonds*1 in the fiscal year ended March NRI’s Value Creation earnest in the fiscal year ended March 2018, are proceeding smoothly 2017, and also issued “Kabuki bonds” (a domestic offering of foreign and we aim to complete adoption during the new Medium-Term currency denominated bonds) in the year fiscal ended March 2018. In Management Plan. In the fiscal year ended March 2019, we received the fiscal year ended March 2019, we joined the global Science Based a rating from S&P Global Ratings Japan Inc. (S&P) for the purpose Targets (SBTs) initiative for environmental target values and announced of improving our overseas presence. As the EBITBA margin that we our early approval of the TCFD*2 task force for disclosing the impact of emphasize as a financial index, we also announced our intention environmental changes on finance. to continuously maintain a level of 20% or above as the new target NRI strives to solve social issues via our business and places emphasis value in our new Medium-Term Management Plan. The adoption of on the concept of CSV*3 that aims for both economic value and social IFRS, acquisition of S&P rating, and EBITDA margin target are strongly value, and will continue to work toward enhancing dialog with our recognized as necessary for the Company to flourish, in particular in investors via disclosure of various financial and non-financial KPIs and comparison with other companies in the same industry overseas. holding of ESG briefings, etc. NRI states its corporate philosophy as “Dream up the future” and aims *1 B onds issued for procuring capital required for business that contributes to resolving environmental problems such as global warming to achieve social value such as diversification of capital procurement *2 Task Force on Climate-related Financial Disclosures methods and expansion of ESG investment, rather than simply achieving *3 Creating shared value economic value for ourselves. Up until now, we were the first operating Financial Highlights •Shareholder Value / Returns to Shareholders Cash Dividends per Share (DPS) / Earnings per Share (EPS)*2 (yen) Dividend Payout Ratio*3 / Total Return Ratio (yen/%) 228 90 90 216 80 80 129.8 176 181 70 171 113.4 158 56 63.4 66.4 36.5 35.9 41.5 36.5 41.1 42.4 39.1 35.9 14.3 15.3 16.3 17.3 18.3 19.3 14.3 15.3 16.3 17.3 18.3 19.3 Cash dividends per share Payout ratio Total return ratio •Financial Condition Total Assets / Net Assets / Equity Ratio (billions of yen/%) Interest-bearing Debt / D/E Ratio (billions of yen/times) 81.6 621.6 628.9 643.1 593.2 612.1 68.3 64.6 58.6 60.8 469.0 55.0 425.4 447.2 432.6 425.0 403.4 331.4 0.18 0.19 0.15 0.17 70.4 67.1 0.16 0.13 69.1 65.2 65.6 66.2 14.3 15.3 16.3 17.3 18.3 19.3 14.3 15.3 16.3 17.3 18.3 19.3 Total assets Net assets Equity ratio Interest-bearing debt D/E ratio *1 Amounts have been rounded down to the nearest unit specified. However, percentages have been rounded off to the nearest digit specified. *2 NRI implemented 1:1.1 common stock splits on October 1, 2015, and January 1, 2017. Earnings per share (EPS) is calculated by deeming stock splits to have occurred respectively at the beginning of the fiscal year ended March 2015, and the fiscal year ended March 2016. *3 The dividend payout ratio is calculated by dividing the total sum of dividends (including dividends to the NRI Group Employee Stock Ownership Group) by net income. (Note) NRI implemented a 1:3 common stock split on July 1, 2019. Earnings per share (EPS) and annual dividend per share (DPS) shown have not been retroactively adjusted for said stock split. 35 Nomura Research Institute Contents ▶ •Financial Results and Cash Flow Situation NRI’s Value Creation Sales / Overseas Sales / Overseas Sales Ratio (billions of yen/%) Operating Profit / Operating Profit Margin (billions of yen/%) 501.2 471.4 71.4 421.4 424.5 65.1 405.9 10.6 385.9 58.2 58.5 9.2 49.8 51.4 14.3 13.8 13.8 13.8 12.9 12.7 3.5 4.5 2.1 1.8 43.5 53.0 6.9 8.6 14.6 18.9 14.3 15.3 16.3 17.3 18.3 19.3 14.3 15.3 16.3 17.3 18.3 19.3 Sales Overseas sales Overseas sales ratio Operating profit Operating profit margin Cash Flows (billions of yen) EBITDA*2 / EBITDA Margin (billions of yen/%) ROE・ROA*3 (%) 108.8 9.3 103.1 81.4 73.4 58.7 91.8 88.9 61.1 55.6 56.3 84.1 57.6 33.8 77.5 39.5 12.9 12.3 30.8 11.6 10.8 10.6 10.7 1.6 6.1 -1.0 -10.5 21.8 11.5 -17.8 -16.8 10.2 10.4 21.8 21.9 21.7 10.0 10.0 9.7 -32.2 -30.3 20.9 -8.7 19.1 -34.3 -46.8 -75.3 -73.1 14.3 15.3 16.3 17.3 18.3 19.3 14.3 15.3 16.3 17.3 18.3 19.3 14.3 15.3 16.3 17.3 18.3 19.3 Cash flows from operating activities Cash flows from investing activities EBITDA EBITDA margin ROE ROA Cash flows from financing activities Free cash flows •Investment Situation Capital Expenditures / Research and Development Expenses / Depreciation and Amortization (billions of yen) Education and Training Expenses (billions of yen) 48.3 5.6 20.2 5.1 5.1 38.6 38.2 34.1 13.6 16.1 4.2 32.5 3.9 33.8 31.0 30.4 3.6 8.3 11.2 31.9 26.2 28.0 28.4 25.8 5.6 25.0 22.6 22.7 22.0 20.6 1.8 1.7 1.7 1.7 1.7 1.8 14.3 15.3 16.3 17.3 18.3 19.3 14.3 15.3 16.3 17.3 18.3 19.3 Capital expenditures (Intangible) Capital expenditures (Tangible) Depreciation and amortization Research and development expenses Education and training expenses *1 The method for calculating overseas sales has been changed since the fiscal year ended March 2017. *2 EBITDA is calculated as Operating profit + Depreciation and amortization + Goodwill amortization up to the fiscal year ended March 2017 and as Operating profit + Depreciation and amortization + Goodwill amortization + Loss on retirement of noncurrent assets from the fiscal year ended March 2018. *3 ROE was calculated as Profit attributable to owners of parent / Beginning and ending balance average net assets. ROA was calculated as Ordinary profit / Beginning and ending balance average total assets Integrated Report 2019 36 Financial/Non-financial Highlights Non-Financial Highlights NRI’s Value Creation See P.87–88 for more details •E: Environment-related Data Greenhouse Gas Emissions (1,000t-CO2) Green Revenues (Revenues from Shared Online Services) (billions of yen) (NRI Group data) (NRI Group data) The NRI Group reduced its greenhouse gas emissions significantly by migrating to new, Amid concerns over rising power usage by the IT services industry as a whole, NRI has environmental friendly data centers and other means. formulated a business plan intended to reduce power usage by the IT activities of the entire •FY March 2019: Reduced greenhouse gas emissions by 38.2% compared to FY March 2014. value chain, including client companies. Specifically, growing NRI’s shared online service revenues will likely serve to curb the carbon dioxide emissions of society as a whole. Data indicates that using NRI’s shared online service can allow our clients to cut their CO2 emissions by around 70%, compared to if they build and operate their own systems independently. 501.2 471.4 -7.9% -19.8% 421.4 424.5 402.5 -26.9% 405.9 371.3 -30.0% -38.2% 328.7 326.7 326.9 108.0 99.5 86.6 79.0 75.6 66.8 92.7 97.8 100.1 98.7 79.0 14.3 15.3 16.3 17.3 18.3 19.3 15.3 16.3 17.3 18.3 19.3 Green revenues (revenues from shared online services) Other revenues •S: Social-related Data Number of Employees (persons) Number of Hires / Turnover Rate (persons/%) (NRI Group data) (Non-consolidated data) 12,708 12,578 452 11,605 1,429 1,453 10,757 539 1,945 1,995 2,052 1,761 340 9,012 8,123 383 392 345 294 299 294 854 293 272 775 12 14 15 41 21 33 12 13 8,821 9,004 3.9 8,105 8,676 3.5 3.8 7,302 8,498 3.2 3.3 2.4 14.3 15.3 16.3 17.3 18.3 19.3 14.3 15.3 16.3 17.3 18.3 19.3 Japan Europe U.S. Asia Australia New hires Total turnover rate (Note) The total turnover rate is the ratio of retiring employees to the number of employees at the end of the fiscal year. Female Hires’ Ratio and Female Managers’ Ratio (%) Monthly Average Overtime Hours per Employee (hours) (Non-consolidated data) (Non-consolidated data) 29.8 34.8 27.4 33.0 26.9 25.9 26.6 24.5 29.8 27.2 22.0 21.5 5.7 6.1 6.4 6.8 4.9 5.2 14.3 15.3 16.3 17.3 18.3 19.3 14.3 15.3 16.3 17.3 18.3 19.3 Female hires’ ratio Female managers’ ratio (Note) Female managers’ ratio is the value at the beginning of the term Client Satisfaction (%) Employee Satisfaction (%) (Non-consolidated data) (Non-consolidated data) 87.0 84.6 83.0 82.0 83.4 82.9 Satisfied 80.5 14.3 15.3 16.3 17.3 18.3 19.3 (Note) Survey of NRI employees working in Japan (as of October 1, 2017) (Note) Number of questionnaire response by project unit that NRI received an order for. No. of valid respondents: 5,545; collection rate: 85%. Percentage that responded “Satisfied” or “Moderately satisfied” (total for top two The ratio of employees thought to be satisfied is the ratio of “Satisfied” and items on five-grade scale) “Moderately satisfied” on a four-level scale. 37 Nomura Research Institute Events in the Fiscal Year Ended March 2019 Contents ▶ Initiatives in the fiscal year ended March 2019 and their results are described below. NRI’s Value Creation Category Topic Industrial The Australian ASG Group entered a contract to provide a secure cloud environment for supporting IT Solutions digital transformation with Airservices Australia (an aviation authority). 2018 April Adopted the Restricted Stock Option Compensation Plan for members of the Board* in order to Management promote further sharing of value with shareholders. *Members of the Board (excluding outside directors) and senior managing directors, etc. IT Platform Financial NRI’s adoption of solutions using artificial intelligence (AI) was well received and we were awarded the May Services IT Solutions Best Artificial Intelligence (A.I.) Initiative at the FTF News Technology Innovation Awards 2018. Industrial Established the Technium CO., LTD. joint venture that promotes digitization of manufacturing together IT Solutions with DMG MORI CO., LTD., and started service provision June Consulting Suggested that additional childcare capacity for 279,000 pre-school children be made available in order to achieve the female employment rate target of the government Selected as a constituent brand of the FTSE4Good Developed Index global ESG investment index July ESG developed by FTSE Russell for the 13th consecutive year Financial With Nomura Holdings, Inc., establishing the NVANTAGE joint venture in India for providing BPO August IT Solutions services and IT solutions for the financial industry Management Acquired new “A” rating from S&P Global Ratings Japan Inc. for expanding our global presence Selected as one of the brands for the World Index of the Dow Jones Sustainability Indices (DJSI) September ESG global ESG investment indices. IT Platform DENSO CORPORATION and NRI SecureTechnologies, Ltd. established the NDIAS, Ltd. joint venture in Services the automobile cybersecurity business Awarded as a company with excellent disclosure (Computer Software Sector) for the second October Management consecutive year IT Platform NRI SecureTechnologies, Ltd. started a security monitoring service for information systems using Services blockchain technology Completed acquisition of approximately ¥30 billion in treasury stock during the period between November Management May 16 to November 15, 2018 Financial United States subsidiary Cutter Associates bought business assets of a Swiss research company IT Solutions specializing in financial services for the wealthy Consulting Estimated that wealthy households in Japan number 1.27 million with net financial assets of ¥299 trillion in 2017 December ESG Winners of the NRI Student Essay Contest 2018 decided 2019 ESG Joined the World Business Council for Sustainable Development (WBCSD) January Industrial Established the JAL Digital Experience Co., Ltd. joint venture to provide revolutionary services IT Solutions utilizing digital technologies together with Japan Airlines Co., Ltd. Certified as a Health and Productivity Management 500 Organization (White 500) for three February ESG consecutive years IT Platform Services NRI’s AI solution TRAINA was adopted at Mitsui Sumitomo Aioi Life Insurance Co., Ltd. Selected as a Nadeshiko Brand for three consecutive years as a listed company with outstanding March ESG promotion of female performance and advancement Integrated Report 2019 38 Business Domain NRI’s Four Business Segments NRI’s business consists of mainly the four following business segments. ■Consulting: Consulting services ■Financial IT Solutions: IT solutions for the securities, insurance, banking, asset management, and other financial sectors ■Industrial IT Solutions: IT solutions for industrial clients in distribution, manufacturing, and service sectors ■IT Platform Services: Construction of IT platforms and networks which support NRI’s IT solutions business and data center operations, in addition to system management solutions and security services for external clients Solving Social Issues through Value Creation Consulting P.41–42 This segment provides management consulting, operational consulting, and system consulting for enterprises and government agencies. This segment is also engaged in research, future projections, and recommendations related to society, economics, business, technology, etc. Major affiliated company ASG Group Financial IT Solutions P.43–44 This segment provides system consulting, system development and system management solutions, and shared online services for Internal support financial institutions mainly in the securities, insurance, banking, asset management, and other financial sectors. Major affiliated company NRI Process Innovation, DSB, Cutter Associates Clients Industrial IT Solutions P.45–46 This segment provides system consulting, system development and system management solutions, and shared online services mainly for Internal support the distribution, manufacturing, service, and public sectors. NRI Netcom, NRI System Techno, Brierley+Partners, Major affiliated company ASG Group IT Platform Services P.47–48 This segment provides data center operations and construction of IT platforms and networks are provided to the Financial IT and Industrial IT solutions segments within the Group. This segment also provides IT platform solutions and information security services to external clients. Furthermore, NRI conducts research related to advanced information technology, etc. Major affiliated company NRI SecureTechnologies, NRI Data i Tech, NRI digital 39 Nomura Research Institute Contents ▶ Sales by segments Sales including Operating profit/ for FY March 2019 inter-segment sales Operating profit margin (year-on-year changes) (billions of yen) (billions of yen/%) Solving Social Issues through Value Creation ¥41.3 billion (+19.5%) 50 8 7.8 30 41.9 6.5 35.3 5.8 31.1 18.8 18.6 18.6 20 25 4 10 0 0 0 17.3 18.3 19.3 17.3 18.3 19.3 Operating profit Operating profit margin ¥252.3 billion (+0.1%) 300 248.1 254.5 255.1 30 26.4 27.6 27.0 20 200 20 Securities 10.7 10.9 10.6 ¥100.3 billion (-15.3%) 10 100 10 Insurance ¥64.8 billion (+25.2%) 0 0 0 Other financial Banking 17.3 18.3 19.3 17.3 18.3 19.3 ¥43.7 billion (+10.4%) ¥43.4 billion (+2.8%) Operating profit Operating profit margin ¥174.4 billion (+12.6%) 200 157.5 177.1 20 15.1 18.4 20 Manufacturing, services and other 107.6 ¥107.8 billion (+14.9%) 100 10 9.0 10.4 10 9.6 8.4 Distribution ¥66.5 billion (+9.0%) 0 0 0 17.3 18.3 19.3 17.3 18.3 19.3 Operating profit Operating profit margin ¥33.1 billion (+11.0%) 150 122.1 122.3 127.7 20 17.1 30 14.7 14.0 100 10 12.1 13.4 15 11.5 50 0 0 0 17.3 18.3 19.3 17.3 18.3 19.3 Operating profit Operating profit margin Notes: 1. Amounts have been rounded down to the nearest unit specified. However, percentages have been rounded off to the nearest digit specified. 2. There was a partial revision to segment categorization for the fiscal year ended March 2019. Figures for the fiscal year ended March 2018 reflect this change in categorization. Also, year-on-year comparisons use previous year figures which reflect this change in categorization. Integrated Report 2019 40 Business Domain Consulting Segment Consulting segment provides consulting services for policy planning for government agencies and strategy planning, business operation reforms and all phases of IT management for companies. We also have a strong track record in overseas markets including Asia-Pacific, Europe, and the United States, where we have been tapped for numerous consulting projects by Japanese companies as well as local companies and governments. Solving Social Issues through Value Creation Service Examples •Support in medium to long-term business planning, strategy planning, and overseas business strategy planning for companies •Support in digital business development for companies •Support in business process reform for the manufacturing industry, financial industry, etc. •Support in IT governance standardized on a group or global basis •Support in policy planning and execution support for government agencies Segment Strengths •One of Asia’s largest consulting firms that has over 1,000 consultants in Japan and overseas •Broad lineup of experts that cover an extensive range of industries and themes •Consultants that understand strategy, operations, and IT •Data analytics expertise developed through many years of experience in statistical analysis, marketing research, etc. (Left) IT Navigator 2019 Edition (Right) Practical Data Science and Machine Learning Studied Using R and Python Business Environment Strategies and Countermeasures • Acceleration in corporate reform due to digital •Domestic business technologies –Account management aimed at forming medium-term –Tendency towards business models that use digital partnerships technology –“Con-Solutions” through integrated consulting and –Vitalization of cross-sector corporation cooperation based on IT engineering proposals information and data –Operations consulting and comprehensive support to aid in –Advancement of differentiation due to high-level utilization of execution digital technology –Expansion of consulting services that use digital technology •Accelerated globalization of management such as artificial intelligence (AI) –Expansion of the global IT market; in particular, China is •Global business further strengthening its presence –Global practice activities –Necessity for standardized IT governance that differs for each –Strengthening of client base through partnerships with local country and business partners •Severe impact of declining population –Development of local accounts by local NRI offices –Lack of human resources for middle management –Increase in IT departments/IT subsidiaries not able to keep up with digital technology 41 Nomura Research Institute Contents ▶ Value Provided to Society Co-create a thriving future society by driving new value. Estimated amount of childcare capacity requiring additional facilities In recent years, solving the issue of children on waiting lists for childcare is an important policy issue. In order to review the form of development for childcare capacity, NRI believes that we must quantitatively visualize the amount of childcare facilities requiring establishment in conjunction with the effect of expected policy decisions. Therefore, NRI is conducting survey analysis and policy recommendations. Solving Social Issues through Value Creation Specifically, in order to achieve the target female employment rate set by the national government (80% by 2022), we estimated the required amount of future development from the perspective of the extent of necessary childcare capacity. According to our latest estimates, in addition to capacity for Amount of required childcare capacity estimated 320,000 children via the Kosodate Anshin Plan (Child-Rearing Peace of Mind Plan) established in June using unique logic based on required amount of labor 2017, further childcare capacity for 279,000 children is required. NRI has also implemented questionnaires for parents of pre-school children in order to investigate how sufficient childcare impacts areas such as employment and childbirth. The results of these questionnaire suggests that developing childcare capacity would simultaneously make it possible to secure labor and increase the birth rate. Co-create an ideal society by effectively utilizing its resources. ASEAN nations technical assistance for development of the bond market As part of growth strategy for the financial capital market in Asia, the Asian Bonds Market Initiative (ABMI) is being promoted by ASEAN nations, as well as by the financial ministries and central banks of Japan, China, and South Korea. NRI continually provides technological assistance to the ASEAN Secretariat and ASEAN nations based on the Japan-ASEAN Financial Technical Assistance Fund (JAFTA). In the fiscal year ended March 31, 2019, we implemented technical assistance projects in four countries: Cambodia, Indonesia, Laos, and Vietnam. Currently, Cambodia does not issue national bonds. NRI analyzed and evaluated the possibility of issuing Cambodian national bonds in the future. We announced the results of our analysis at a seminar on national bond market growth held by the Ministry of Economy and Finance of Cambodia in Phnom Penh. In addition to the Ministry, the seminar was attended by numerous organizations including the National Bank of Cambodia, the Securities and Exchange Commission of Cambodia, the Cambodia Presenting results of technical assistance at a Securities Exchange, and various financial institutions. The seminar featured a lively Q&A session on seminar held by the Cambodian government topic including specific methods for issuing national bonds. Co-create a safe and secure society by advancing its infrastructure. Aizuwakamatsu City, Fukushima Prefecture Demonstration Project for Making Japanese Sake Utilizing 5G and IoT Technology Through a consortium with KDDI CORPORATION and Aizu Activate Association Co., LTD., NRI has contracted and executed a project from the Ministry of Internal Affairs and Communications for surveying and reviewing technical conditions for next-generation mobile systems which support high-speed data transmission to suburbs, IoT services, and other technology. In this project, through cooperation with Aizuwakamatsu City and other related parties, we are implementing IT solutions utilizing 5G and IoT in processes (rice cultivation, brewing, distribution, and sale) for making Japanese sake. We are also demonstrating technology for increased sophistication and efficiency. For example, the burden on farmers during rice cultivation can be reduced by using drones to take aerial photographs of the entire farmland. This makes it possible to adjust the amount of fertilizer and decide on harvest timing without having to actual go the farmland. Real-time transmission of aerial images from the drones makes it possible to monitor farmland from breweries or homes. NRI will continue to Using drones for aerial photograph as part of making use new technology such as 5G to achieve innovation in local industries and regional revitalization. Japanese sake Integrated Report 2019 42 Business Domain Financial IT Solutions Segment This segment provides system consulting, system development and system management solutions, and shared online services for financial institutions mainly in the securities, insurance, banking, asset management, and other financial sectors. The number of users has steadily grown for shared online services as IT services that quickly respond to the customer’s business environment and regulatory changes based on the know-how that NRI has developed in the financial industry over many years. Solving Social Issues through Value Creation Service Examples •Core business systems and information systems of Nomura Securities Co., Ltd. •ATM network systems and accounting systems of Seven Bank, Ltd. •Shared online services that have become the de facto standard: THE STAR, I-STAR, T-STAR, and BESTWAY Segment Strengths •Strong client base based on business with top-class financial institutions in the industry and other clients over many years •Shared online services which have the leading market share in the financial industry •Utility services provided jointly with Group companies (IT solutions + BPO services) •Close communication with financial authorities, industry organizations, etc. Ranked 9th in the global ranking (supports, etc. for policy planning for the My Number system, NISA system, etc.) of financial IT service companies •Think tank activities that discuss and communicate on financial policy and financial released by IDC Financial Insights intermediary function issues (Financial Markets Panel, Research Forum for Revitalization of Financial Intermediation in Domestic Economy, JapanChina Financial Roundtable) Business Environment Strategies and Countermeasures •Response to accelerated aging of society and asset •Creation of new business and expansion of service lineup transfer to the next generation –Create new business opportunities through policy –Securities sector: Strengthen support for the ultra-wealthy recommendations for asset transfer from the elderly and and elderly with a focus on major securities; focus on increased investment among the young generation incorporating the next generation –Expansion of digital solutions for capturing the young –Banking sector: Implement measures for strengthening the generation wealth field and front-office operations with a focus on mega banks •Accurate response to the needs of clients centered around shared online services –Insurance sector: Increase the size of agent offices in the non-life insurance sector; strengthen multi-channel approach –Steadily responding to new need, expansion of IT solutions in the life insurance sector × BPO services –Asset management sector: Diversification of sales channels •Continued client support and creation of new businesses through direct sales, etc. aimed at providing digital financial services •Amidst decreasing profitability due to low interest rates, –Response to new entry by corporations from other industries etc., diversify merchandise and expand investment aimed through function modularization and API release at cost reduction –Inter-industry business creation that exceeds the conventional –Utilize BPO services in addition to IT solutions financial industry framework and expansion of service lineup •Search for partnerships and response in conjunction •Expansion of global business with new entry into the financial business by venture –Expansion of support for worldwide offices of Japanese corporations and corporations from other industries financial institutions –Securities sector: Partnerships with corporations from other –Established NVANTAGE in India to provide IT solutions and industries and major securities companies BPO services for the financial industry –Banking sector: Partnerships with venture corporations and –Purchase of business assets in the wealth management development of new applications/services business by our United States subsidiary Cutter Associates –Insurance sector: Diversification of merchantability in response to advancements such as autonomous driving technology •Expansion of overseas business by leading financial institutions, etc., through M&As 43 Nomura Research Institute Contents ▶ Value Provided to Society Co-create a thriving future society by driving new value. Held the NRI Financial IT Forum 2018 on the theme of accelerating the financial digital transformation In November 2018, NRI held the NRI Financial IT Forum 2018. The philosophy of the forum is to work for revitalization of the financial industry with customers by utilizing NRI’s position as a partner capable of integrated actions from formulating and implementing strategy to constructing and operating Solving Social Issues through Value Creation systems. The forum is planned and held every year as an opportunity for advertising the comprehensive capability of NRI in the financial industry. The NRI Financial IT Forum 2018 was the seventh time that the forum was held. Based on the theme of accelerating the financial digital transforma(Above) tion, the forum featured lectures by invited external instructors. Also, NRI economists, researchers, Venue of the NRI Financial consultants, and engineers gave lectures on NRI’s unique research and initiatives made possible by IT Forum 2018 (Left) expertise in the financial industry. By utilizing the comprehensive capability of each division under our President Konomoto gives Financial IT Solutions Segment, NRI is cooperating with clients to co-create a thriving future society a greeting at the forum for the financial industry. Co-create an ideal society by effectively utilizing its resources. Cooperating with Refinitiv (U.S.; formerly Thomson Reuters) to start provision of the I-STAR/GX back-office solution for handling foreign securities In May 2019, U.S. securities firms who are clients of the U.S. corporation Refinitiv (formerly Thomson Reuters) started full-scale usage of I-STAR/GX, a back-office solution provided by NRI for handling of foreign securities. Refinitiv provides back-office solution BETA systems for handling domestic securities. These systems are positioned as an industry platform for U.S. securities. Conversely, NRI developed the I-STAR/GX service by utilizing our knowledge of foreign security business processes, including SWIFT connection with overseas custodians such as Euroclear. Officials from Refinitiv and NRI celebrate go live of Refinitiv and NRI have formed a strategic partnership, and have combined BETA systems and I-STAR/GX I-STAR/GX. This has enabled us to systemize a series of business processes from foreign securities settlement, deposit management, and corporate action to management of client/brand attributes. We have also achieved integration and Straight-Through Processing (STP)* of postings for foreign securities and domestic securities. NRI will continue to co-create an ideal society by responding to issues faced by financial institutions on a global scale, by increasing the efficiency of processes, and by heightening the corporate value of our clients. *Straight Through Processing: Transaction data that has been read is processed automatically in the system without any manual work Co-create a safe and secure society by advancing its infrastructure. Construction of Sony Life Insurance’s customer center system on Microsoft Azure In May 2018, Sony Life Insurance Co., Ltd., used Microsoft Azure*1 to renew their client center system used by operators for tasks such as responding to telephone calls from clients. NRI has supported past projects by Sony Life Insurance such as construction of contract management systems and other core systems, as well as merchandise response. NRI was involved in the installation of the Azure infrastructure from design and development of the system to preparation of Construction of Sony Life Insurance Co., Ltd.’s the operating environment. customer center system on Microsoft Azure Installation of a client center system on the cloud has made it possible to reduce operation load *Life Planner is a registered trademark of Sony Life and cut operation costs for the system. Also, we applied NRI’s cloud risk management service for Insurance Co., Ltd. financial institutions to use in continuous risk evaluation of the cloud. NRI serves as an agent to perform evaluation based on the safety measure standards defined by the FISC*2. This has enabled safe See the Sony Life Insurance Co., Ltd. website and continuous management of client information. In addition to supporting further expansion of client for details. https://www.sonylife.co.jp/company/news/30/ business, NRI will contribute to the co-creation of a safe and secure society. files/180830_cc.pdf *1 Microsoft Azure is a registered trademark of Microsoft Corporation (United States) *2 Financial Information System Center Integrated Report 2019 44 Business Domain Industrial IT Solutions Segment Operations in this segment comprise integrated consulting, system development, and system management solutions for the distribution retail/wholesale, manufacturing, communications, service, and public sectors. We are strengthening our relationship as a long-term business partner with industryleading corporations such as Seven & i Holdings Co., Ltd., KDDI CORPORATION, Ajinomoto Co., Inc., Japan Airlines Co., Ltd. (with whom we established a joint venture Solving Social Issues through Value Creation in February 2019), and Marubeni Corporation (with whom we are in a capital and business partnership). Through these relationships, we seek to create new value. Service Examples •Order and supply system and POS information system for Seven & i Holdings Co., Ltd. •watashi+ (comprehensive beauty web service) and Optune (IoT skincare system) by Shiseido Company, Limited. •“Dokonani Mile, ” the new mileage service by Japan Airlines Co., Ltd. Segment Strengths •Transformation of the DX2.0 business model through collaboration and partnership with clients •Cutting-edge digital marketing platform (DMP) solutions •Extensive experience in global SCM solutions •Compelling proposals fusing package solutions and cloud services •Loyalty marketing solutions (Brierley+Partners) •IT managed services (ASG Group) The ASG Group, a leader in IT managed services, opened a new National Operation Center in Adelaide. The center satisfies the high security level required from government organizations. Business Environment Strategies and Countermeasures •Aggressive IT investments, mostly among large, high•Enhance & enlarge core businesses performing enterprises –Working with Consulting to expand support offerings from the –Expanding investments in DX 2.0-related areas, aiming to uppermost processes down transform business models –Expanding support offerings from the digital areas to core –Increasingly sophisticated front office-related systems and systems and global systems SCM systems, stemming from EC business growth •Expanding global business –In response to insufficient human resources and work-style –ASG Group: Expanding business with a focus on government reform, lively efforts to save labor and automate business clients processes through RPA and other approaches Aiming for a top-10 position in the Australian market •The need for innovation in core systems –Brierley+Partners: Continuing to expand business in both the –Increasing prevalence of package solutions and cloud North America and Japan services •Expanding digital business •Global business expansion –Strengthening development of digital IP –Growing importance of global IT governance –Expanding real estate tech business –Expanding KDDI Digital Design Inc. business –Establishing JAL Digital Experience Co., Ltd. and expanding business •Strengthening management that supports strategic action –Cultivate human resources who promote digital business and package solutions 45 Nomura Research Institute Contents ▶ Value Provided to Society Co-create a thriving future society by driving new value. Cooperating with JAL to establish a joint venture that uses data analytics Trade name JAL Digital Experience Co., Ltd. and AI to propose experiences for a richer lifestyle Established February 4, 2019 Capital ¥475 million The NRI Group made a 49% investment in JAL Digital Experience Co., Ltd., a subsidiary of Japan Motoki Misu (Japan Airlines Co., Ltd.) Representative Airlines Co., Ltd. (hereinafter, “JAL”), in February 2019. JAL Digital Experience combines the client Director Hiroyuki Nakamura (Nomura Research Institute, Ltd.) base and high-quality services of JAL with the data analytics, artificial intelligence (AI), and other Japan Airlines Co., Ltd.: 51% Solving Social Issues through Value Creation digital know-how of the NRI Group to achieve deeper understanding of individual client needs. This Shareholder NRI Group: 49% makes it possible to create services for personalized proposal of rich experiences and new lifestyles. composition (Nomura Research Institute, Ltd.: 44%, Brierley+Partners Japan, Inc.: 5%) As the first phase, JAL Digital Experience will create a new membership organization in autumn Plan to use data analytics, AI, and of 2019. Through partnerships with various corporations, JAL Digital Experience plans to expand Business lines other technology to provide services for services which match the daily lives of its clients. Furthermore, the company will co-create a thriving enriching the lifestyle of users future society through initiatives such as developing new services in the JAL Group. Co-create an ideal society by effectively utilizing its resources. Providing IT solutions to support work by the elderly In 2007, NRI Social Information System Services, Ltd. was founded after splitting off from NRI. It was founded as an IT services company targeting senior human resources centers, and it seeks to promote senior employment for a meaningful life and to revitalize the local community. Currently, NRI Social Information System Services provides one-stop IT infrastructure services and core business systems such as Ageless 80 and Collabo80+. The company currently serves more than 800 senior human resources centers in all prefectures throughout Japan, as well as prefectural senior human Ageless 80 and Collabo80+ hold a top share in the resources center federations. Moreover, while gaining insight on working style for the generation with industry a 100-year life, the company will continue to increase the added value of our services. For examples, it will develop new mechanisms for co-creating social value with society, and engage in information See the NRI Social Information System transmission and social recommendations for a declining birthrate and aging society. NRI and NRI Services, Ltd. website for details. https://www.nri-social.co.jp/ Social Information System Services are working together with our client to co-create an ideal society. Co-create a safe and secure society by advancing its infrastructure. Entered into a basic contract to achieve an innovative data management environment with the Australian Bureau of Statistics The NRI subsidiary ASG Group (hereinafter, “ASG”) is an expert in digital transformation for supporting clients in the Australian IT market through, consulting, management analysis, data analytics, IT systems construction, and other fields. With a history of more than 100 years, the Australian Bureau of Statistics (hereinafter, “ABS”) is one of the world’s top statistic bureaus. However, the ABS was experiencing increased operations cost due to factor such as separation of data processing caused by systems which have deteriorated and grown bloated over many years of accumulation. The ABS selected ASG as its partner in achieving innovate enterprise data management (EDM) with an eye on increasing the efficiency on its series of administrative processes. The integrated system environment features new EDM to ensure the compatibility of data. In addition to significantly increasing the efficiency of administrative processes at ABS, the environment enables advanced analysis utilizing big data. In addition to supporting further sophistication of IT infrastructure at customers, NRI will contribute to the co-creation of a safe and secure society. Integrated Report 2019 46 Business Domain IT Platform Services Segment The segment provides services such as the management and operation of data centers and IT platform/network development to Financial and Industrial IT Solutions segments. This business also provides IT platform solutions and information security services to client in various industries. We also carry out research toward development of new businesses and new Solutions, and research in cutting-edge information technology. Solving Social Issues through Value Creation Service Examples •Operates three data centers in the Tokyo area and two in the Osaka area •NRI SecureTechnologies, Ltd. provides one-stop information security services, from sophisticated security operations and surveillance and consulting, to various types of software and services •NRI digital, Ltd. supports digital business with “Con-Solutions” and open innovation Segment Strengths •Data centers with facilities and operational management capabilities that conform to the highest standards •Management operation centers in five locations in Japan and network hubs around the world •Security business which supports companies’ global development •Specialty company (NRI digital, Ltd.) that supports digital business creation •Information technology trend projections over many years JQA-IM1553 JQA-IC0020 (publication of the IT Road Map, etc.) •Investigation and research on AI (artificial intelligence), deep learning, The IT solutions infrastructure* NRI Cloud provided voice recognition, image recognition, character recognition, etc. by NRI has acquired ISO/IEC27001 and ISO/IEC27017 certification from the Japan Quality Assurance Organization (JQA) (as of October 19, 2018). *General name of NRI solutions for IT infrastructure to achieve stable operation of customer systems https://www.nri.com/en/service/ips/managed Business Environment Strategies and Countermeasures •IT platforms business and IT operations outsourcing •IT platforms business and IT operations outsourcing business business –Increasing burden for supporting upgrades of own data –Operation of safe and secure data centers centers –Sophistication of system management solutions for cloud –Growing utilization of public cloud services data centers –Need for global IT operations structure associated with the –Establishing/expanding multi-cloud services expansion of overseas business –Providing support through a global operations system •Security business (operation centers in five locations in Japan and network –Need for advanced security measures in response to hubs around the world) increasingly sophisticated cyber-attacks •Security business –Expansion of areas for security countermeasures –Expansion of global security business accompanying the use of digital technologies such as IoT in –Provision of security countermeasures services for new areas business such as IoT and the block chain •Digital business •Digital business overall –Use of digital technologies to make existing businesses more –R&D activities, industry-academia collaboration and open efficient and sophisticated innovation related to advanced technologies –Trying to establish new business models using digital –Expansion of digital business support by NRI digital, Ltd. technology –Establishing NDIAS, Ltd. and expanding business •DX production innovation –Expanding business of Technium CO., LTD. –Accelerating use of IT due to a shrinking workforce and •DX production innovation work-style reforms –Expanding Digital Workplace Business –Reforming agile development and other system development 47 Nomura Research Institute Contents ▶ Value Provided to Society Co-create a thriving future society by driving new value. Installation of NRI’s AI solution TRAINA series started at the contact center of Mitsui Sumitomo Aioi Life Insurance Installation of three products (VOICE Digest, FAQ Knowledge, and Text Mining) from NRI’s AI solution TRAINA series has started at Mitsui Sumitomo Aioi Life Insurance Co., Ltd. Installation is scheduled to be completed in 2019. In recent years, it has been difficult to hire human resources in the contact Solving Social Issues through Value Creation center industry. There is the need for fundamental reforms in which AI is used to increase the efficiency of operator duties and to improve the quality of response. Installing the TRAINA series makes it possible to convert customer inquiries and responses into text data. The data can then be summaTRAINA, language-friendly AI solution provided by NRI rized and analyzed. Furthermore, the FAQ Knowledge Search function displays candidate responses for the operator depending on the content of telephone conversation with the customer. This function is effective at improving the quality of response. NRI will contribute to the co-creation of future society See the TRAINA website for details. https://www.traina.ai/ by utilizing AI, cloud, and other advanced technology to reform the business processes of our clients. Co-create an ideal society by effectively utilizing its resources. Digital Workplace Business—Solution for improving the experience value of employees and achieving true work-style reform Issues such as a shrinking population, declining birth rate, aging society, women’s social advancement, and performance of senior human resources have created the need for work-style reform that enables a variety of different work styles. Conversely, conventional work-style reform is often discussed from a corporate perspective, with focus placed on initiatives such as shortening working hours and improving labor productivity. In many cases, corporations sacrifice employment motivation, fulfillment, and other EX* that can be obtained through working. NRI’s Digital Workplace Business achieves true work-style reform by combining three elements of the physical environment (corporate culture, information technology (IT), office space, etc.) and setting improved EX as the final target. Utilizing new digital technology such as collaboration cloud, Internet Innovation cycle of Digital Workplace of Things (IoT), and video conferencing increases the freedom of choosing where and when to work. This makes working time more flexible and improves work-life balance. Furthermore, it gives birth to See the Digital Workplace Business website for a cycle in which outstanding human resources gather together, innovation such as new services is details. created, and contributions are made toward the creation of a future society. Through consulting, NRI https://www.nri.com/jp/service/solution/ips/dwp provides clients with support throughout the entire process from consulting to construction of offices and installation of IT. In this way, we achieve a smarter work style for each employee and co-create an ideal society with happy lifestyles. *Employee Experience: Value of employee experiences Co-create a safe and secure society by advancing its infrastructure. NDIAS, Ltd. Trade name Together with DENSO, established a joint venture for conducting the (commonly referred to as NDIAS) Automobile Cybersecurity business Established December 3, 2018 Capital ¥100 million In December 2018, NRI’s subsidiary NRI SecureTechnologies, Ltd. (hereinafter, “NRI Secure”) and Representative Director and Yukinori Hashimoto DENSO CORPORATION established the joint venture NDIAS, Ltd. The new company will conduct a President cybersecurity business focusing on security diagnosis for on-board electronic finished goods. We Shareholder NRI SecureTechnologies, Ltd.: 50% are on the verge of an era of autonomous driving and connected cars. In this new area, a variety of composition DENSO CORPORATION: 50% devices will be connected with automobiles. This creates the new threats of external hacking, etc. •Security evaluation for automotive onConsideration is also being given to international standards for related cybersecurity requirements, as board electronic devices and vehicles Business lines •Security consultation, security well as to obligatory enforcement and legal systems for related measures. In response, we are provideducation, etc., for the automotive ing integrated security evaluation of on-board electronic devices and consulting services by utilizing industry DENSO’s accumulated know-how in cybersecurity technical development suitable for on-board technologies, as well as NRI Secure’s accumulated know-how in security diagnosis and consulting in fields such as financial systems. Our evaluation and consulting will cover all phases from automobile See the NDIAS, Ltd. website for details. https://ndias.jp/ development to after the start of mass production. NRI SecureTechnologies and DENSO are co-creating a safe and secure mobility society. Integrated Report 2019 48 Mechanisms for Supporting Value Creation Message from the Director in Charge of Supervising of Corporate Administration Yasuo Fukami Representative Director, Member of the Board, Senior Executive Managing Director in charge of Supervising of Corporate Administration Mechanisms for Supporting Value Creation Corporate Philosophy and CSV rights, as well as how we fulfill our responsibility for respecting human rights. Corporate management taking ESG into account is an essential condition for sustainable growth and business continuity. Since our founding, Evolution of Corporate Governance through our main business activities of consulting and IT Solutions, NRI has acted based on our Corporate Philosophy of “Dream up the future.” In order to show our active attitude toward creating a sustainable to support the resolution of social issues and contribute to building susfuture society, we participated in new initiatives in the fiscal year ended tainable futures. We consider this to be our mission and these values are March 31, 2019. For example, we joined the WBCSD*2 and endorsed shared by our management and employees. Some easy-to-understand the TCFD*3. Furthermore, our previous initiatives have been highly examples include serving as a think tank to make social proposals and recognized from a variety of perspectives. We have been designated as a future forecasts regarding the ideal future, as well as providing shared Nadeshiko Brand and certified as a Health and Productivity Management online services which continually support financial markets via system 500 Organization (White 500). infrastructure. In this way, the concept of CSV*1 for increasing our NRI recognizes the role of corporate governance in supporting economic value through the resolution of social issues through business contributions to business, the environment, and society. We also is included in NRI Sustainability Management as “solving social issues recognize how corporate governance creates the ability to respond to through value co-creation.” changes in business environment. Based on this understanding, we have positioned the Board of Directors as the cornerstone of governance. We Materiality for Sustainable Growth have appointed directors with diverse expertise while emphasizing a balance among executive directors, non-executive directors, and outside Based on the UN Global Compact, international standards, guidelines, directors. In the fiscal year ended March 31, 2019, NRI revised our etc., NRI has designated priority themes for materiality for sustainable Corporate Governance Guidelines. We implemented a restricted stock growth which must be addressed to promote CSV. compensation plan in order to promote further value co-creation among In particular, as NRI expands our business globally, it is important members of the Board and our shareholders. We also took measures that we develop an environment in which a diverse variety of professuch as full-scale review of successor plans for president and other sionals can perform, regardless of race, nationality, gender, and other positions, and revision of our policy for cross-held shares. Also, in April differences. Another important concept is inclusion which transforms the 2019, we established the Global Headquarters as an organization for strengths and unique characteristics of each employee into organizagovernance of expanding global businesses. tional strengths. NRI has actively appointed professionals who became While evolving our mechanisms for corporate governance, NRI members of the NRI Group through M&A. Additionally, we are moving will continue our efforts to achieve sustainable growth and increase ahead of other companies in Japan by implementing work-style reforms. corporate value in the medium to long-term. Also, we will make further Specifically, we produced tangible results through actions to reduce contributions to building sustainable futures. working hours and promote health and productivity management. In *1 Creating Shared Value February 2019, we formulated the NRI Group Policy on Human Rights. *2 World Business Council for Sustainable Development *3 Task Force on Climate-related Financial Disclosures This policy clearly states how we respect basic labor rights and human 49 Nomura Research Institute Contents ▶ •NRI Sustainability Policy Through our main business activities of consulting and IT solutions, NRI will act based on our Corporate Philosophy of “Dream up the future.” to contribute to the creation of a sustainable society. Creating Shared Value (CSV), a concept attracting attention in recent years: This concept has already been incorporated into our Corporate Philosophy. NRI has engaged in corporate management for creating value that can be shared with society. In May 2017, NRI declared our participation in the UN Global Compact and has taken action in order to achieve Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs). Furthermore, from the perspectives of management and external stakeholders, we have identified four priority issues for materiality for sustainable growth. We identified these themes based on international standards and guidelines such as GRI standards, ISO 26000, the Dow Jones Sustainability Indices (DJSI), and the United States Sustainability Accounting Standards Board (SASB), as well as on the opinions of external experts. NRI is proposing and implementing action plans for the resolution of issues. Furthermore, we are periodically evaluating the progress of these action plans and then revising the action plans and the issue itself. NRI Sustainability Management Policy NRI growth Building sustainable futures Corporate philosophy “Dream up the future” Mechanisms for Supporting Value Creation NRI sustainability management •Solving social issues through value co-creation (CSV) Co-create a thriving future society by driving new value. Co-create an ideal society Co-create a safe and by effectively utilizing its resources. secure society by advancing its infrastructure. •Vision2022 financial targets Operating profit ¥100 billion •Materiality for sustainable growth Operating profit margin 14% or more Reduction of environmental impact Provision of opportunities for all kinds Overseas sales ¥100 billion for preserving global environment of professionals to take on challenge ROE 14% Compliance with laws, regulations and risk Management of the informationsystems management to increase trust from society that form social infrastructure Sustainability Management Structure NRI established the Social Value Creation Committee and the Sustainability Activities Committee as a special appointment at the direction of the President & CEO to promote overall sustainability management. Both committees make proposals to Senior Management Committee and others. President & CEO Social Value Creation Committee Sustainability Activities Committee Chairperson: Senior Managing Director Chairperson: Senior Corporate Managing Director Promote activities for stable Promote social value creation business foundations from based on Corporate Philosophy the point of view of ESG Integrated Report 2019 50 Mechanisms for Supporting Value Creation Results of Main Sustainability Activities Our Sustainability Policy is composed of CSV initiatives for solving social issues through value co-creation, and materiality for sustainable growth that supports the aforementioned CSV initiatives. Based on this Sustainability Policy, NRI is implementing a variety of activities aimed at building a sustainable future. The following is an introduction of initiatives for materiality for sustainable growth for supporting value creation at NRI. Initiatives for Materiality for Sustainable Growth Materiality for Page Main policies/Related SDGs Examples of main sustainability activities sustainable growth No. •Response on climate change •Set a New Environmental Target (reduce greenhouse gas emissions by 55% by FY March P.53 •Responsibility and conservation 2031 (compared to FY March 2014)) to the environment •Implemented and expanded the scope of NRI-EMS, a unique environmental management P.53 •Sustainable energy consumption system for offices at NRI •Environment-conscious supply •Relocated to office buildings with superior environmental performance; used renewable P.54 Reduction of chain energy environmental •Promoted NRI Green Style Activities through e-learning courses, forest maintenance — impact for activities, etc. preserving •Acquired SBT Initiative certification for greenhouse gas reduction targets formulated by NRI P.53 global •Joined RE100, an initiative by corporations seeking to transition to 100% renewable energy P.53 environment for power used in business activities •Declared participation in the Taskforce on Climate-related Financial Disclosures (TCFD) P.55 Mechanisms for Supporting Value Creation •Declared participation in the Japan Climate Initiative (JCI) P.52 •Human resource diversity •Developed solutions and cultivate human resources through cooperation with educational/ P.58 •Healthy employment and research organizations both inside and outside of Japan labor-management relationship •Held the NRI Student Essay Contest (held continually since the fiscal year ended March P.38 •Respect on human rights 2007) •Expanded actions to support the balance of work and child-rearing by male employees P.61 Provision of •In June 2017, opened the in-office nursery Yumeminato Hoikuen P.61 opportunities •Based on the “Act on Employment Promotion etc. of Persons with Disabilities,” promoted P.61 for all kinds of the hiring of person with disabilities by our special subsidiary NRI Mirai professionals •Developed a new office environment which promotes work-style reform and internal/ P.62 to take on external interactions challenge •In February 2019, we formulated the NRI Group Policy on Human Rights. This policy clearly P.61 states how we respect basic labor rights and human rights, as well as our responsibility for respecting human rights. •Enhancement of corporate •Established the Nomination Committee, which is mainly composed of independent directors P.65 governance •Changed the main members composing the Compensation Committee from external P.65 •Risk management experts to independent Members of the Board •Action against corrupt practices •Implemented the restricted stock compensation plan as a mediumto long-term incentive P.67 abroad compensation plan for Members of the Board Compliance with •Appropriate information laws, regulations •Held the Sustainability Dialogue in order to discuss CSR with business partners P.77 disclosure to the customers and risk •Held the Business Information Session for institutional investors and analysts P.78 management to (continued from FY March 2011) increase trust •Held the ESG briefing in February 2019 P.78 from society •Established NRI Australia in order to strengthen governance in the Australia region P.70 •In April 2019, we established the Global Headquarters for global governance. P.27 •Management of information •Enhanced project monitoring functions and held other activities to improve the quality of P.79 security and system information systems •Access to information society •Held the Production Innovation Forum and took other activities to improve company-wide P.80 quality and productivity Management of •Held the Safety and Security Forum and acquired certification/guarantees from third-party P.80 the information organizations systems that •Increased the level of information security measures both inside and outside Japan P.81 form social infrastructure •Increased the sophistication of our Computer Security Incident Response Team (CSIRT) in P.82 order to respond to cyber attacks NRI’s sustainability initiatives also contribute to achievement of the SDGs (Sustainable Development Goals) for 2030 which were adopted by the United Nations in September 2015. 51 Nomura Research Institute Contents ▶ Participation in Initiatives May 2017 United Nations Global Compact (UNGC) NRI is active both in Japan and on a global scale. To continue to gain trust from society and meet expectations, NRI endorsed the United Nations Global Compact (UNGC) and announced its participation in May 2017. June 2018 July 2018 September 2018 Japan Climate Initiative Task Force on Climate-related Science Based Targets initiative Financial Disclosures January 2019 February 2019 World Business Council for Renewable Electricity 100% Sustainable Development (WBCSD) Mechanisms for Supporting Value Creation Status of Inclusion at Equities in ESG Stock Indices The worldwide ESG investment amount in 2018 reached approximately ¥3,400 trillion. NRI is included in the equities used for the main ESG stock indexes. Dow Jones Sustainability World Index First-ever inclusion in 2018 NRI is included in all four ESG stock indices selected by Dow Jones Sustainability Asia Pacific Index the GPIF. Included for three consecutive years from 2016 MSCI Japan ESG Select Leaders Index* MSCI Japan Empowering Women Index* MSCI ESG Leaders Indexes* Name of indexes changed from MSCI Global Sustainability Indexes Included for three consecutive years from 2016 FTSE Blossom S&P/JPX Japan Index Carbon Efficient Index FTSE4Good Developed Index Included for thirteen consecutive years from 2006 *THE INCLUSION OF Nomura Research Institute, Ltd IN ANY MSCI INDEX, AND THE USE OF MSCI LOGOS, TRADEMARKS, SERVICE MARKS OR INDEX NAMES HEREIN, DO NOT CONSTITUTE A SPONSORSHIP, ENDORSEMENT OR PROMOTION OF Nomura Research Institute, Ltd BY MSCI OR ANY OF ITS AFFILIATES. THE MSCI INDEXES ARE THE EXCLUSIVE PROPERTY OF MSCI. MSCI AND THE MSCI INDEX NAMES AND LOGOS ARE TRADEMARKS OR SERVICE MARKS OF MSCI OR ITS AFFILIATES. Integrated Report 2019 52 Mechanisms for Supporting Value Creation E (Environmental Management) Creation of a Future, Low Environmental Impact Society All NRI directors and employees will strive to reduce environmental impact, preserving a global environment where humans and nature exist in harmony and with the goal of achieving a future that is both sustainable and prosperous. NRI consumes a large amount of energy during use of our five data centers. Therefore, from among ESG elements, we place particular focus on initiatives to stop climate change. Environmental Target Environmental Target •Targets related to energy usage On February 18, 2019, NRI joined RE100*, an international initiative by corporations seeking to transition to 100% renewable energy for power used Target for FY Mar. 2031 Target for FY Mar. 2051 in business activities. By the fiscal year ending March 31, 2051, we seek to procure renewable energy for all electric power used in business activReduce greenhouse Reduce greenhouse gas emissions at the gas emissions at the ities. Electric power accounts for more than 90% of energy used in NRI’s NRI Group by 55% NRI Group to zero business activities. Therefore, we are also working to reduce greenhouse (compared to Scope FY March 2014) gas emissions from our business activities to zero by the fiscal year ending 1+2 March 31, 2051. NRI is the 165th company to join RE100 globally, and the Achieve a renewable Achieve a renewable Mechanisms for Supporting Value Creation 17th in Japan. energy usage rate of energy usage rate of 36% at data centers 100% at the NRI Group *An international initiative operated through a partnership between the CDP and The Climate Group (an international NGO) Member corporations have publicly declared that they will transition to 100% renewable energy for electric power consumed in business activities by 2050. 70% or more of NRI group suppliers and http://there100.org/ Scope venders will set science-based target for 3 reducing greenhouse gas emissions (by the fiscal year ending March 2024) •Targets related to energy usage Scope: Target scope of calculation/reporting for greenhouse gas In September 2018, NRI’s target for reducing greenhouse gas emissions emissions by corporations was certified by the Science Based Targets (SBT) Initiative*, an international Scope 1: Direct emissions through combustion of fuel, etc. Scope 2: Indirect emissions through use of electricity, heat, environmental initiative, as a science-based reduction target for keeping the steam, etc. Scope 3: Indirect greenhouse gas emissions other than increase in global mean temperature below 2˚C from pre-industrial revolution Scopes 1 and 2 Manufacturing in the supply chain, levels. NRI is the 132nd company to receive certification globally, and the commuting by employees, business travel, etc. 29th in Japan. *An initiative to promote the setting of science-based targets for reducing greenhouse gas emissions by companies in order to control the increase in global temperature below 2˚C from pre-industrial revolution levels. The initiative was established by four organizations: CDP, which is federation of Target Scope for Environmental institutional investors promoting disclosure on climate-change countermeasures, the UN Global Management System Compact (UNGC), the World Resources Institute (WRI), and the World Wildlife Fund (WWF). (based on CO2 emissions) https://sciencebasedtargets.org/ Domestic offices Overseas offices (not yet implementing (not yet implementing NRI-EMS): NRI-EMS): 3.7% 3.3% Implementation of Environmental Management System Overseas offices (with NRI-EMS): Data centers (with ISO 14001): 0.9% 72.2% NRI has acquired ISO14001 certification, an international standard on Domestic offices environmental management systems, for its data centers which are the (with NRI-EMS): 19.8% main source of CO2 emissions. EMS As for NRI offices, we began to introduce NRI-EMS, an environmental coverage ratio: management system unique to NRI, starting from the fiscal year ended 92.9%* (FY Mar. 2019) March 2016. In the fiscal year ended March 2019, we implemented NRIEMS at some overseas offices in China. In the fiscal year ending March 2020, we plan to implement NRI-EMS at English-speaking overseas bases. *The figure shown for the EMS coverage ratio is the final value based on data assurance work carried out between April and June 2019 by an independent third party. For this reason, it differs slightly from the EMS coverage ratio of 92.4% that was published in Sustainability Book 2019, which was issued in June 2019. 53 Nomura Research Institute Contents ▶ Migration to New Data Centers We are performing system migration to Tokyo Data Center I, Yokohama Data Center II, and Osaka Data Center II, all of which have outstanding environmental performance. Tokyo Data Center I was opened in November 2012 and is equipped with a variety of energy-saving facilities. For example, it has a double-deck system that achieves highly efficient and flexible air conditioning installing server equipment and facilities-related equipment such as air conditioning on separate floors. It also features a cold water vertical thermal storage tank achieving efficient air conditioning by storing cold water. Through system migration to new data centers, we have already reduced greenhouse gas emissions by 24.5% compared with the fiscal year ended March 2016. Changes in Greenhouse Gas Emissions at Data Centers (t-CO2) 70,000 Reduced by 24.5% Cold water vertical thermal storage tank at Tokyo 35,000 Data Center I Mechanisms for Supporting Value Creation 0 FY Mar. 2016 FY Mar. 2017 FY Mar. 2018 FY Mar. 2019 Hiyoshi Data Center Yokohama Data Center I Osaka Data Center Yokohama Data Center II Tokyo Data Center I Osaka Data Center II Migration to New Offices From the fiscal year ended March 31, 2016, we are relocating to new offices at our Headquarters, Yokohama Center, and Osaka Center, all of which feature outstanding environmental performance. We started moving into the Yokohama Center (Yokohama Nomura Building) in April 2017. Due to the outstanding environmental performance of the center, we are issuing green bonds and applying the proceeds to equity acquisition and capital expenditures. Greenhouse gas emissions per employee in the new office are half of emissions per employee in the old office. Changes in Greenhouse Gas Emissions at Offices (t-CO2) 18,000 Reduced by 19.4% 9,000 The Yokohama Center (Yokohama Nomura Building) features outstanding environmental performance 0 FY Mar. 2016 FY Mar. 2017 FY Mar. 2018 FY Mar. 2019 Marunouchi Center Kiba Center Yokohama Minato Center Yokohama Development Center Yokohama Learning Center Osaka Development Center Headquarters Yokohama Center Osaka Center Integrated Report 2019 54 Mechanisms for Supporting Value Creation Initiatives at NRI for TCFD Final Recommendations NRI established the Sustainability Activities Committee for promoting activities as the management infrastructure to support co-creating social value of sustainability management, and is implementing initiatives for sustainability management. NRI mainly consumes a large amount of energy during use of our data centers. Therefore, we place particular focus on initiatives to stop climate change. Moreover, since we possess numerous clients in the financial industry, we declared our support for the TCFD*1 Final Recommendations (hereinafter, “TCFD”) in July 2018, making us one of the first non-financial business firms to do so. A total of nine meetings regarding response to TCFD were held by experts from the Consulting Division and the Sustainability Activities Committee. We announced our progress status at the ESG Briefing*2 held in February 2019. Process of Reviewing Risks and Opportunities In the fiscal year ended March 31, 2019, we defined the scope of review, defined and identified scenarios*3, and then reviewed the estimated impact on each of our businesses. When setting the scope of review, we targeted the entire value chain including the direct impact on businesses in each of NRI’s four business fields, as well the indirect impact from clients and partners. When defining and identifying scenarios, we first set a medium to long-term period from after 2030. For that period, we set a 2°C Scenario for limiting temperature increases to less than 2°C per the Paris Agreement, and a 4°C Scenario in which no additional countermeasures are taken other than the currently envisioned countermeasures. Based on these scenarios, we identified the impact (opportunities and risk) envisioned for each business field. Mechanisms for Supporting Value Creation Scope of Review Phenomena caused by transition to a low-carbon society Physical phenomena caused by climate change Policy changes Market changes Acute climate change Chronic climate change Direct impact Direct impact Direct impact Business partners NRI Main client industries Number of personnel Indirect impact Indirect impact Securities sector Consulting at business partners in Japan: Insurance sector approx. 7,000 persons Financial IT Solutions Banking sector Number of personnel Industrial IT Solutions at business partners Manufacturing/ in China: services sector approx. 4,000 persons Data centers Distribution sector Definition/Identification of Scenarios World View in 2°C Scenario World View in 4°C Scenario The 2°C Scenario is based on the assumption that a carbon tax The 4°C Scenario is based on the assumption that a carbon tax and strengthened emissions regulations will be enforced in an and strengthened emissions regulations will be enforced in an effort to reduce greenhouse gas emissions. It also assumes that effort to reduce greenhouse gas emissions. It also assumes that the expansion of renewable energy and the promotion of the expansion of renewable energy and the promotion of energy-saving measures will be possible in society. energy-saving measures will be possible in society. 55 Nomura Research Institute Contents ▶ Envisioned Impact on Business Opportunity Risk Business Field World View in 2°C Scenario World View in 4°C Scenario Consulting The demand for client corporations to make There is the risk that intensified natural disasters envisioned in the 4°C Scenario will changes leading to decarbonization will cause stagnation of the macro economy, hurt increase demand for NRI’s knowledge and the profitability of clients, and impact solutions related to sustainability. business sales. Financial IT Compared to independent system developIf the profitability of financial institutions Solutions ment by individual corporations, NRI’s shared decreases due to climate change becoming online services will enable significant a factor in asset damage and long-term reductions in power consumption, CO2 stagnation of the macro economy, there is emissions, and cost. Furthermore, demand the risk of impact on demand for provided can be increased by raising the renewable services. energy usage rate aimed at achieving RE100. Industrial IT Support for increasing the efficiency of the Solutions supply chain and distribution processes will Providing cloud systems will make it possible contribute to low carbonization. The advanceto minimize damage in the event of a natural ment of related initiatives in the future will disaster, thus reducing the risk to clients. Mechanisms for Supporting Value Creation create opportunities for increasing demand. Data centers The risk of business stoppage is reduced by considering natural disasters when selecting locations, as well as by implementing a By the fiscal year ending March 31, 2051, we mutual backup system using multiple data seek to establish carbon-free data centers centers. This creates opportunities for which use renewable energy for all electric increasing demand. power. We believe that these data centers will create increased demand in conjunction with There is the risk of increased expenses such increased environmental awareness among as equipment maintenance/renewal expenses our customers. and cooling expenses due to power malfunctions caused by natural disasters, and due to an increase in days on which the temperature exceeds 30°C. *1 TCFD: Task Force on Climate-related Financial Disclosures. Established by the Financial Stability Board (FSB), which is composed of financial ministries, financial regulatory bureaus, and governors of central banks from 25 main countries throughout the world. The TCFD makes recommendations for disclosure of climate-related financial information in annual reports, etc., with the goal of enabling appropriate investment decisions by investors in corporations. The TCFD recommends disclosure in four items including governance, strategy, and risk management related to risks faced by corporations due to climate change. *2 ESG briefings are held in order create understanding among shareholders, analysts, and members of the media regarding NRI’s Sustainability Management and specific ESG initiatives. For details, please refer to page 78 and our website (https://www.nri.com/en/sustainability/management/esg/2018). *3 Refers to scenario analysis (analysis for possible future impact of climate change on the company) as defined by TCFD. For our 2°C Scenario, NRI uses the Sustainable Development Scenario listed in the World Energy Outlook 2018 published by the International Energy Agency (IEA). For our 4°C Scenario, we use the RCP (Representative Concentration Pathways) 8.5 (high level reference scenario) published by the Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change (IPCC). Integrated Report 2019 56 Mechanisms for Supporting Value Creation S (Human Resources Management) NRI’s Human Resources Strategy The strength of NRI is our human resources; in other words, professional employees who possess a high level of expertise, who take the initiative to work on independently-set goals, and who are fearless innovators. To develop these human assets, NRI has been strengthening a system and an environment to develop the hidden talents of highly motivated people and to allow them to produce results on the job. Three Pillars of Our Human Resources System Career Fields (Figure 1) NRI’s human resources system is designed based on the three pillars of 1 Corporate strategy consultant “assessments based on performance, outcomes, and ability,” discretionary 2 Business consultant labor scheme,” and “a program of employee appraisals linked to human 3 Systems consultant resource development.” The program of employee appraisals linked to hu4 Business strategist man resource development encourages employees to diversify and pursue 5 Sales representative / Marketing manager specialized fields, thus supporting autonomous and systematic skill devel6 Project manager (Development) opment by employees. 7 Project manager (Enhancement) As an outline for pursuing specialized fields, NRI has defined 22 career 8 Application architect fields (Figure 1) and encourage employees to refine their skills in multiple 9 IT infrastructure architect specialized fields. We develop human resources capable of collaborating 10 Application specialist Mechanisms for Supporting Value Creation across multiple departments by using a broad perspective to flexibly re11 Common application infrastructure specialist spond to changes in the business environment. NRI grants internal certifica12 IT platform specialist tion (Figure 2) to employees who possess a particularly high level of exper13 IT services manager tise in career fields. This promotes development of core human resources 14 Security specialist and provides employees with a role model of a professional. 15 Researcher Furthermore, each employee shares his or her target career field and 16 Data scientist level with his/her manager. Through interviews with managers held every six 17 Project management specialist months, we implement a Challenge & Act (C&A) System for confirming the 18 Quality management specialist target set by employees and the corresponding level of achievement. 19 Business administration staff In addition to compensation for short-term performance, we have imple20 Corporate management / Headquarters staff mented incentives for mediumand long-term contribution; specifically, for 21 Systems engineer the achievement of sustainable improvements in corporate value. Examples 22 Consultant of incentives include retirement allowances, a defined contribution pension plan, employee stock ownership, and an E-Ship®*. *Employee Share Holding Incentive Plan: Uses share holding by employees to create the incentive of subsequent increases in share prices. Internal Certification Program (Figure 2) CBD CDS Planning and (Certified Data Scientist) (Certified Business Developer) proposals ① Business creation CBA Process scope for internal certification ② Developing new clients (Certified Business Analyst) CPM (Certified Project Manager) Work duties CAE ① Application specialist (Certified Application ② Application architect ① New project Engineer) ③ Application common platform specialist ② Enhancement project PM/ Systems CITA ① Platform leader (Certified ② Core engineer IT Architect) ③ Advanced engineer ④ Platform strategist Platforms CISM ① IT service design (Certified IT Service ② IT service implementation System Manager) ③ IT service operation management and operation Creation of new business Data analytics Proposal / Consulting Design / Development Operations / Maintenance Project management Developing new clients Systemization planning Operating processes 57 Nomura Research Institute Contents ▶ Human Resource Investment that is Top-class among Average Annual Training Budget per Employee at NRI Japanese Companies (non-consolidated) 2nd Human resources development at NRI is an organic fusion of three methods: training programs, self-improvement, and on-the-job training (OJT). NRI believes that providing OJT training through work experience is the optimal development method. Training programs are a method for organizing knowledge acquired through OJT and deepening understanding. It is also positioned as a method for obtaining knowledge and skills which cannot be acquired According to the results of a questionnaire through OJT. Training programs at NRI (Figure 3) can be divided into two main survey titled “The Latest Rankings from a types: training according to seniority and training according to career field. In Survey of Companies that Make the Most of addition to curriculums depending on seniority and title, programs according to People” (implemented between June and seniority include managerial talent development of selected individuals, curricJuly 2015) that was published on the Nikkei Career Woman website, NRI was ranked ulums depending on job type, courses that support women’s participation and second in regard to the amount of training advancement in the workplace, and courses for veteran career development. expenses spent per employee from among Programs according to career field provide a variety of training programs that the 454 companies that provided valid fulfill the diverse needs of employees. They are directed to the development of responses to the survey. individual capabilities that are in line with career fields (Figure 1), career development that aims for acquisition of internal certifications and other objectives. NRI has also established a system to support self-development for employees to become qualified in and improve their foreign language skills. NRI’s Global Human Resources Mechanisms for Supporting Value Creation Development Program Global Human Resources Development Programs Global business leaders NRI implements many overseas programs to develop global business leaders who can promote the Global Strategy, which is one of the growth strategies contained in the Medium-Term Management Plan (2019–2022). We are Overseas Overseas Overseas especially focusing on an overseas training system where employees can posting study trainee experience global business for about one year through an internship at the overseas office of a globally active client firm. Over the past eight years, 180 Global short-stay training/ trainees have so far been sent to16 countries overseas. Language training The overseas studies program is a system through which employees Global human resources pool obtain wide-ranging knowledge and expertise as well as advanced technical capabilities. In addition to MBAs from overseas business schools, the acquisition of degrees in other fields, such as computer sciences (MSE/MCS) and law (LLM), is also actively pursued. Training is also implemented in China and India to learn project management and data sciences. Training Program System (Figure 3) Compulsory Recommended Open recruitment Classification Junior employees Mid-career employees Manager / GM / Department head New employee Specialist Deputy supervisor Supervisor Manager GM Department training training training training training training head training Program according to Veteran career planning workshop seniority Inclusion seminar for Female leader development training Female manager training management-level employees Training for Managerial Training for selected Mid-career employees Training for Training for selected (management knowledge, leadership, selected selected department talent cross-industry exchange meeting, etc.) managers GMs heads Consulting training Program according to IT skills training Basic career training Hands-on career training Advanced career training (common to all fields; elective) (by career field) (by career field) career field Other skills training Priority DX human resources development program fields Global human resources development program Self-improvement support program Other Development programs according to division (Division / Group company / Global) Selective programs according to division Integrated Report 2019 58 Mechanisms for Supporting Value Creation S (Human Resources Management) Development of DX Human Resources NRI implements a program to develop human resources who can accelerate the DX Strategy, which is a pillar of the growth strategies contained in the Long-term Management Vision “Vision2022” and the Medium-Term Management Plan (2019–2022). Education to re-skill and increase the capabilities of consultants and systems engineers, who already possess conventional abilities, is being carried out. This enables them to utilize their existing skills while expanding their area of activity to include the field of digital transformation (DX). By doing so, we are promoting the strategic shift of NRI’s human resources portfolio to one that we are aiming for in the DX age. DX Human Resources Development Program DX Human Resources Development Policy (Aimed-for Ideal) With the aim of strengthening capabilities – such as those in artificial intelligence (AI), analytics, blockchain, UX design, agile software development and microservice Each employee will add on the following essences architecture – that are required in the DX age, NRI offers training for the acquisition for surviving the DX age while leveraging the skills they have already nurtured through their careers, of DX skills. The training is available across different lengths of service in addition and they will aim to become human resources to the traditional skills cultivation that takes place according to how long a person who will lead the DX age. has been with the company (Figure 1). There is a wide array of curriculums available. They include not only those for the acquisition of basic knowledge Business Mechanisms for Supporting Value Creation (Consumer, community, etc.) and IT skills but also courses that share implementation know-how, the latest “Insight and actualization business-use cases as well as deep insights, distinctive of NRI, and edgy capability” for business acumen. understanding and contributing to the digital transformation Furthermore, proactive collaboration is carried out with research bodies of clients’ businesses (graduate schools, etc.) in Japan and abroad, external organizations, such as data scientist (DS) associations, and companies. A multitude of academic knowlLeadership edge and progressive cases are incorporated to establish places of learning “Co-creating social of a higher level as well as support employees in their development of human value capability” to maximize the potential networks and stages for achieving success. Going forward, curriculums will be of own company and lead planned and designed around creating opportunities for learning, opportunities collaboration with other companies for development, opportunities for becoming connected, and opportunities for playing an active role. They will be adapted to providing chances for acquiring high skills of greater efficiency (Figure 2). Technology Engineering (Technology, science, etc.) (Art, design, agile software We are focusing on cultivating data scientists, such as by establishing “data “Discovery and development, etc.) scientist” as a career field in 2012, and institutionalizing “certified data scientist” discernment capabilities” “Creativity and for learning state-of-the-art implementation capabilities” in 2017. fields on one’s own, and for creating unprecedented Ranks have been established in accordance with skill levels for each capabilidentifying external seeds value through sophisticated for business mechanisms ity to develop the human resources required for execution of the DX Strategy. Programs are planned and operated after establishing numerical targets in regard to the number of people to be cultivated. DX Human Resources Development Program (Figure 1) Knowledge Co-creation Business consulting System consulting Digital marketing UX design / Agile software Microservice / API Cloud / PCI DX analytic / AI Blockchain Security and insight leadership development knowledge Design conception knowledge Implementation know-how and use cases Re-skilling startup curriculum Skills External collaboration curriculum (Participation in industry-academia-government collaboration and Industry organizations) knowledge and frame Self-improvement curriculum (massive online open courses (MOOC) and qualification acquisition) Engineering + Art / Design/ Management + Leadership Business + Consumer / Community Technology + Science / Academia Agile software development 59 Nomura Research Institute Contents ▶ The Four Places of Learning (Figure 2) 1 Opportunities for learning Each individual obtains opportunities to learn for making challenges into new fields 2 Opportunities for development Individuals learn while contributing to the development of the next generation as an expert •Training to share advanced knowledge distinctive of NRI and learn original •Plan internal training and development measures at DX Expert Panel meetings, insight, in addition to simple skills and case studies and lead measures that promote the advanced integration of on-the-job and •Establishment of courses in which each individual can learn in accordance with off-the-job training their personal circumstances at their own pace as well as courses in which •Opportunities to develop the next generation by serving as lecturers of internal persons at any level, whether a beginner or veteran, can learn the basics and external training sessions, and as university professors in industry-academia •Self-improvement through Coursera, university lectures, qualification partnerships, taking the podium at events, and providing guidance to interns acquisition, etc. •Lead opportunities to teach others to even deeper learning through systematization and introspection Opportunities for Opportunities for 3 becoming connected The enhancement of individual strengths by forming internal networks 4 playing an active role Increase NRI’s presence while also linking it to self-growth •Participate in DX Expert Panel meetings and, based on human resources •Make strategic assignment of human resources for information communication, information and project information, lead measures for interaction between such as through external lectures and newspaper and web-based articles, internal advanced human resources, sharing of insights and the reinforcement and to external collaborations, such as by dispatching individuals to industry of organizational strengths organizations or having persons serve as executive board members of such •Reinforce the functions of internal DX-related CoE organizations, strengthen organizations collaboration between consulting and solutions, invigorate job assignment •Trigger self growth through opportunities to strengthen NRI’s branding through the discovery of candidates for advanced human resources, and promote the spread and popularization of advanced knowledge •Promote the integration of internal resources and information through these Mechanisms for Supporting Value Creation measures, and strengthen the display of capabilities by individuals Hosting of the DX Forum We held the NRI DX Forum in September 2018 in Yokohama. The objective was to mutually share in-house knowledge related to DX – accumulated by NRI through projects – and business insights distinctive of NRI. This time, the theme of the Forum was analytics. Lectures, exhibits and events, such as a dialogue session, were held to share outlooks and cases concerning DX. More than 500 employees participated in the Forum, including those at six bases in Japan and abroad who viewed the Forum through video streaming and other means. The title of the dialogue event was “How Should We Change the Future Through Digitization?” The latest trends and research related to digitization were introduced. A heated discussion took place – between those on stage and 28 participants who work on site in digitization – on the direction that should be taken in the mediumto long-term amid the transformation brought about by digitization. President Konomoto’s lecture, and scenes from the venue and dialogue event Minato Mirai Training Square Opened The Minato Mirai Training Square, which is a new training facility, opened in July 2018 at the NRI Yokohama Center. In addition to being a training location for the development of human resources who will transform NRI, the Center is also serving as a new base for the human resources strategy as a place where employees can gather easily and communicate with each other. Training scene Opening ceremony Integrated Report 2019 60 Mechanisms for Supporting Value Creation S (Human Resources Management) Diversity Management NRI works to create a workplace environment that provides each one of our employees with diverse values, growth opportunities, the chance to work vibrantly, and prospects for embracing challenges regardless of their race, nationality, gender, age, disability and sexual orientation. NRI Group Policy on Human Rights Human Rights Policy https://www.nri.com/en/sustainability/social/ policies In the fiscal year ended March 2015, the NRI Group drew up a human rights policy that states that we respect the International Bill of Human Rights and Action plans under the Act on the ILO Declaration on Fundamental Principles and Rights at Work. We are Promotion of Women’s Participation working to strengthen our efforts related to the respect of human rights, and Advancement in the Workplace such as by revising our human rights policy in February 2019 and commitTerm From April 2019 to March 2023 ting to the ongoing exercise of human rights due diligence based on the UN Guiding Principles on Business and Human Rights. 1. R aise the ratio of female managers to at least 8.5% by the fiscal year ending March 2023 (Newly promote more than 100 women to Promotion of Women’s Participation and Advancement in the management-level positions) Goals 2. R aise NRI’s female employee hiring rate to at Workplace least 30% of its total hires 3. C arry out, toward management-level employees, In 2008, NRI established the NRI Women’s Network (NWN) as a project further awareness-raising activities related to diversity management under the direct supervision of our president. NWN conducts activities 1. C ontinue the Female Leader Development based on the three pillars of “helping female employees develop their Mechanisms for Supporting Value Creation Program with the goal of developing female careers,” “supporting training for balancing work and parenting,” and employees into managers “fostering a better corporate culture.” 2. C ontinue measures to increase the number of Today, it is commonplace for the ratio of female employees to increase female students recruited as employees Initiatives 3. Implement awareness-raising measures related and for women to continue working even after marriage or childbirth. In to management and development responsibilities response, NRI is prioritizing continued active participation by women as of managers toward employees with diverse professionals. We are implementing the Leader Development Program and individualities and values 4. C arry out system reforms aimed at allowing other measures to support their career development. In 2018, we launched employees to select diverse work-style choices the Female Leader Development Juku program where female managers serve as lecturers. A seminar for management-level employees was also held in February 2019. Childbirth, Parenting and Nursing Care Support NRI is working to create a workplace that facilitates a balance between work and parenting for both men and women. In addition to systems such as maternity/ paternity leave, we established the “partner childbirth leave” system in January 2017 as part of measures aimed at supporting a work-life for male employees. In June 2017, we opened the Yokohama Center and established the Yumeminato Scene from a diversity and inclusion seminar for management-level employees Hoikuen as an in-office nursery. These facilities support employees in resuming their career at the desired time and building a career plan. Furthermore, NRI helps our employee balance work and nursing care for the elderly by enhancing systems such as nursing care leave and shorter working hours for nursing care. Promoting Workplace Participation by Persons with Disabilities NRI Mirai, Ltd., a special subsidiary* of NRI, contributes to work style reform by providing employees with various disabilities work opportunities such In-office nursery Yumeminato Hoikuen as setting of meeting rooms and libraries, supporting training, collecting/ delivering internal mail, managing of miscellaneous goods, and even providing massage services for employees. Moreover, NRI is working to expand hiring opportunities for people with disabilities by holding fixed-point surveys and presentations related to management issues and trends in the hiring of people with disabilities and operations at special subsidiaries. As of June 2019, 166 disabled persons are employed at NRI and its group companies (an employment ratio of 2.45%). *It refers to a subsidiary that gives special consideration to promote the employment of persons with disabilities, and in doing so meets certain requirements. Obtaining certification from the central government allows persons with disabilities employed by this type of subsidiary to be NRI Mirai employees working at the magazines and deemed as being employed by the parent company. books corner 61 Nomura Research Institute Contents ▶ S (Human Resources Management) Work-style Reform Issues and Health and Productivity Management By enacting work-style reform, NRI works to promote work-life balance by reducing long working hours. We seek to achieve an environment where employees can fully exhibit their abilities while valuing their personal health and family life. Change in average monthly Initiatives for Work-style Reform overtime hours per employee (hours) 36 34.8 36 In 1994, NRI implemented a discretionary labor scheme which was a 34 33.0 pioneering initiative in Japan at that time. Through this scheme, we have promoted a work style that is free from time constraints. 32 29.8 From 2016 to 2017, we relocated our Tokyo, Yokohama, and Osaka 30 27.2 offices to new buildings. Based on the concept of “creating new value by 28 connecting people, goods, events, information, and objectives,” we de26 veloped office spaces which achieve a working style that is uninhibited by 24 22.0 21.5 location. The use of telecommuting and satellite offices is also increasing. 22 Led by the Work-style Reform Committee which we started in the fiscal year 20 20 14.3 15.3 16.3 17.3 18.3 19.3 ended March 2018, we are supporting the achievement of flexible working styles with even higher productivity. A total of about 6,000 NRI employees participated in Telework Days held in July 2018. NRI Health Declaration 2022 Mechanisms for Supporting Value Creation In addition to this work infrastructure, NRI is also fostering a corporate culture that facilitates co-creation among diverse human resources. For Basic policy: Based on correct knowledge and example, one specific initiative is work-style reform which matches the recognition for their own health by each employee, the NRI Group supports active initiatives for content and characteristics of work at each division. improving long-term quality of life (QOL). Reduce lifestyle-related diseases •Manage employees’ reservations and receipts for medical check-ups and health examinations, and 1 encourage them to take these examinations •Put in place health management rooms at our principal offices and build a framework for industrial doctors to handle cases Lower stress •Stress prevention for individual employees and teams New office which achieves an innovative working style 2 •Develop a system to enable employees to return to work earlier Health and Productivity Management Lower smoking rate 3 •Introduce support to help stop smoking NRI aims to achieve health and productivity management* that helps •Remove smoking spaces inside the office improve employees’ quality of life (QOL). We have appointed the Chief Promote work-life balance Health Officer (CHO), and currently are developing various systems and •Reduce overtime and holiday work hours engaging in the relevant initiatives toward invigorating NRI and achieving •Encourage employees to take paid leave increased productivity under the four goals. 4 •Implement the frontline-driven Smart Work-Style Campaign (SWC) including: streamlining operations *It refers to a business policy which generates benefits for a company by providing its employees and meetings, as well as promoting early morning with health-related assistance. This term is a registered trademark of the Workshop for the work Management of Health on Company and Employee. External Evaluation of NRI •In 2017, received the highest level (Level 3) of Eruboshi Certification (certification by the Minister of Health, Labour and Welfare based on the Act on Promotion of Women’s Participation and Advancement in the Workplace) •Selected as a Nadeshiko Brand for three consecutive years in 2017, 2018 and 2019 (corporations selected by the Tokyo Stock Exchange and the Ministry of Economy, Trade and Industry for outstanding promotion of female performance and advancement) •Certified as “Kurumin” for five consecutive terms from 2007 and as “Platinum Kurumin” in 2018 (certification of corporations that support child rearing based on the Act on Advancement of Measures to Support Raising Next-Generation Children) •Certified as a Health and Productivity Management 500 Organization (White 500; Large Enterprise Category) for three consecutive years in 2017, 2018 and 2019 Integrated Report 2019 62 Mechanisms for Supporting Value Creation G (Governance) NRI’s Corporate Governance The strength of NRI is our human resources; in other words, professional employees who possess a high level of expertise, who take the initiative to work on independently-set goals, and who are fearless innovators. To develop these human assets, NRI has been strengthening a system and an environment to develop the hidden talents of highly motivated people and to allow them to produce results on the job. NRI Corporate Governance Guidelines https://www.nri.com/en/company/governance The Basic Approach to Corporate Governance (1) Cooperation with stakeholders NRI respects the interests of stakeholders and cooperates with them in an appropriate manner. In particular, with regard to shareholders, NRI takes the proper measures so that rights are substantially secured, in addition to ensuring substantial equality. (2) Information disclosure and communication NRI discloses information as stipulated by laws and by the regulations of the Tokyo Stock Exchange, and information that assists its stakeholders in understanding NRI and its operations properly, in a timely, accurate, and fair manner, to secure transparency as well as to engage in constructive dialogue with its shareholders. Mechanisms for Supporting Value Creation (3) Corporate governance system NRI is strengthening its management monitoring functions based on the Audit & Supervisory Board System through the appointment of Independent Directors and Independent Audit & Supervisory Board Members, as well as the establishment of bodies that are mainly composed of Independent Directors appointed to advise the Board of Directors. Main corporate governance efforts since 2001 •Formulated the NRI Group’s corporate philosophy 2001 •Listed on the Tokyo Stock Exchange (Section 1) •Introduced an executive officer system to assist in separating management and execution functions 2002 •Reduced the number of members of the Board of Directors to within 20 and also appointed Independent Outside Directors •Increased the number of Outside Audit & Supervisory Board Members to strengthen their auditing functions •Formulated the NRI Group’s Ethical Code (revised to the NRI Group's Code of Business Principles on 2010) and the NRI Group 2003 Employees’ Code of Business Conduct 2005 •Established the Compensation Committee comprised of outside experts to enhance transparency in regard to executive compensation 2006 •Reduced the number of members of the Board to 15 or less •Initial release of the Long-term Management Vision: Vision2015 2008 •Took part in an electronic voting platform for institutional investors as part of efforts to maximize opportunities for shareholders to exercise their voting rights 2010 •Appointed non-executive director to chair the Board of Directors to separate supervisory and execution functions 2012 •Newly established the Integrated Risk Management Department to appropriately manage any risk that may arise in the course of business execution •Increased the number of Independent Outside Directors from two to three •Established the Independent Executives Meeting consisting of Independent Outside Directors and Independent Outside Audit & 2015 Supervisory Board Members •Formulated the NRI Corporate Governance Guidelines •Revised the NRI Group’s Code of Business Principles completely •Initial release of the Medium-Term Management Plan (From FY March 2017 to FY March 2019) 2016 •Implemented the evaluations of the Board of Directors’ effectiveness •Newly establish the Nomination Committee, comprised mainly of Independent Directors 2017 •Change the main members of the Compensation Committee from outside experts to Independent Directors 2018 •Introduction of Restricted Stock Compensation Plan as a medium to long-term incentive for Members of the Board 63 Nomura Research Institute Contents ▶ Corporate governance structure For the Board of Directors and the Audit & Supervisory Board, see P.65-66 (As of July 1, 2019) For the Internal Controls, Corporate Ethics and Compliance, see P.69-70 General Meeting of Shareholders Appointment / Appointment / Removal of Audit & Appointment / Removal of Board Members Supervisory Board Members Removal of Accounting Auditors Nomination Committee Board of Directors Audit & Supervisory Accounting (Members of the Board) Board Members Report Auditors Compensation Committee (Audit & Supervisory Board) Executive Non-executive Audits’ Department Directors and Audit & Supervisory Board Members * * * * * Outside Directors and Outside Audit & Supervisory Board Members *Independent Directors and Accounting Independent Audit & Supervisory Audit Audit Board Members Selection/Supervision President & CEO Internal Audit Department Senior Management Committee Integrated Risk Management Committee Director in charge of Risk Management Compliance Committee Business Promotion Committee Mechanisms for Supporting Value Creation Headquarters Business Divisions DX Business Promotion Committee Risk Management Advise, Human Resources Development Committee Supervisory Department Support, Management Department Management within Each Division Business Development Committee Integrated Risk Management Department Advise, Support, System Development Committee Monitoring Assign a Representative Department for Each Risk Advise, Support, Divisions/Departments Disclosure Committee Representative Management Crisis Management Committee Departments Subsidiaries Roles and activities of committees Mainly composed of Independent Directors, the Committee deliberates on executive appointment matters Nomination Committee related to Directors, Audit & Supervisory Board Members, the CEO and other Board Members, from the standpoint of fairness and transparency. Compensation Mainly comprised of Independent Directors, the Committee deliberates on the system and standards of executive Committee compensation from the standpoint of fairness and transparency. Senior Management The Committee meets in principle to deliberate on important issues involving corporate management in order to Committee achieve consistent business execution and decision making. Integrated Risk The Committee deliberates on important issues concerning risk management based on instructions given by Management Committee the President & CEO. The Committee deliberates on the issues concerning the promotion of ethical and compliance management covering Compliance Committee the improvement of structures to comply with corporate ethics and laws and the prevention of violation reoccurrences, based on instructions given by the President & CEO. DX Business Promotion Based on the instructions given by the President & CEO, the Committee deliberates on important issues concerning Committee promotion of the digital transformation (DX) business. Human Resources The Committee deliberates on important issues concerning ability development and training of employees, based on Development Committee instructions given by the President & CEO. Business Development The Committee deliberates on important issues concerning investments in research and development, planned Committee businesses and investments, such as the acquisition of securities, based on instructions given by the President & CEO. Systems Development The Committee deliberates on important issues concerning proposals and quotations to clients, as well as on their Committee development and release of IT solution-related systems, based on instructions given by the President & CEO. The Committee deliberates on important issues concerning the disclosure of Annual Securities Report and Disclosure Committee other documents, based on instructions given by the President & CEO. Crisis Management The Committee will be established based on the orders of the President & CEO to execute and support prompt Committee responses to a crisis whenever one may occur. Business Promotion The Committee involves administrative departments from the headquarters and management departments within Committee business divisions and seeks to establish highly effective and efficient internal controls. Integrated Report 2019 64 Mechanisms for Supporting Value Creation G (Governance) System and Responsibilities of the Board of Directors and the Audit & Supervisory Board NRI has established a structure to further enhance corporate governance while effectively using the functions of Audit & Supervisory Board Members and the Audit & Supervisory Board as a company with an Audit & Supervisory Board. NRI has delegated to considerable authority and responsibility for business execution to Senior Managing Directors and other Directors. The Board of Directors is exclusively responsible for fundamental decision-making that are the basis for the Company’s business execution and for overseeing the execution of duties by Members of the Board. The Audit & Supervisory Board Members and Audit & Supervisory Board oversee the execution of duties by Members of the Board. Senior Managing Directors and Managing Directors appointed through a resolution by the Board of Directors are responsible for the execution of business based on policies adopted by the Board. NRI holds a Senior Management Committee attended by Representative Directors and Senior Managing Directors once a week and deliberates on the important issues involving corporate management in order to coordinate our business activities and build consensus in executing business operations. Structure of the Board of Directors NRI has nine Members of the Board, including three Outside Directors. The Board of Directors convenes once a month and on an extraordinary basis as needs dictate. Structure of the Board of Directors •The Board of Directors has a well-balanced composition of non-executive directors, executive directors, and Outside Directors. •The Company elects three Independent Directors in principle, or no less than two Independent Directors. •The Board of Directors includes no more than 15 Members of the Board, taking into consideration of the balance and the diversity of various factors, including experience in and knowledge of the Company’s businesses, corporate management, IT technology and corporate finances. Mechanisms for Supporting Value Creation Advisory committees for the Board of Directors NRI has established the following two advisory committees mainly composed of Independent Directors. •Nomination Committee: Nomination Committee Deliberates on executive appointment matters related to Directors, Audit & Supervisory Board Members, the CEO and other Board Members •Compensation Committee: a body to advise the Board of Directors on executive compensation. Responsibilities of the Board of Directors •Make decisions on important matters including basic management policies, the mid-term business plan and business plans, and personnel-related matters, in accordance with relevant laws and regulations, the Company’s Articles of Incorporation, and “Regulations of the Board of Directors.” •Delegate decision-making related to the execution of duties other than the matters specified in the preceding paragraph to the executive directors and other Senior Managing Directors, and exercises its oversight function. •Make efforts for the achievement of the Medium-Term Management Plan, and, if the performance targets are not met, analyze the cause and response, and reflect the findings in ensuing plans •Execute proactive involvement in the formulation and operation of the president & CEO succession plan based on the corporate philosophy, action guidelines, concrete management strategies, etc., and make proper oversight •Determine the compensation of individual Members of the Board (excluding Outside Directors) and other Senior Managing Directors, incorporating healthy incentives targeting sustainable corporate growth in the future. •Decide on the contents of a risk management system, including compliance and internal controls related to financial reporting, and appropriately oversee effective system implementation. Selection policy for the Members of the Board •Members of the Board are elected for a one-year term, creating a management system that can respond in a timely manner to changes in the business environment and clarifying all management responsibilities for each fiscal year. •The Board of Directors has a well-balanced composition of non-executive directors, executive directors, and Outside Directors. •The Company elects three Independent Directors in principle, or no less than two Independent Directors. •The Board of Directors includes no more than 15 Members of the Board, taking into consideration of the balance and the diversity of various factors, including experience in and knowledge of the Company’s businesses, corporate management, IT technology and corporate finances. System and Responsibilities of the Audit & Supervisory Board NRI has five Audit & Supervisory Board Members, including three Outside Audit & Supervisory Board Members. The Audit & Supervisory Board discusses and decides auditing policies and other important matters related to auditing and formulates and expresses audit opinions. Structure of the Audit & Supervisory Board •To ensure independence, more than half of the Audit & Supervisory Board are Independent Audit & Supervisory Board Members •Two or more Independent, Outside Audit & Supervisory Board Members are appointed •One or more persons with substantial knowledge regarding finance and accounting are appointed as Audit & Supervisory Board Members Responsibilities of the Audit & Supervisory Board Members •Request reports from employees and executives to provide impartial supervision of execution by the Members of the Board in addition to participating in the Board of Directors meetings and on other important committees. •Coordinate with the accounting auditors and the Internal Audit Department over such matters as receiving reports on the audit plans and current status of audits from the accounting auditors as well as the results of internal audits from the Internal Audit Department, which is responsible for promoting internal controls. 65 Nomura Research Institute Contents ▶ •Appropriately receive internal control status reports providing information such as monitoring results on compliance with various regulations from the Risk Management Supervisory Department. To ensure that audits are effectively conducted by the Audit & Supervisory Board Members, the Audits’ Department has been established to support the work of the Audit & Supervisory Board Members. Members of the Board (As of July 1, 2019) Executive Attendance Name Terms of Current positions /Outside (Year ended Reason for Appointment (Date of birth) office /Independent March 2019) Shingo President & CEO, He has been responsible for the management of the NRI Group since 2016 as President & CEO, and possesses Representative Board of Directors abundant experience and achievements related to NRI’s management. Furthermore, he formulated and is promoting Konomoto Director, Executive 4 years Attended 14 of 14 the Long-term Management Vision “Vision2022” and the Medium-Term Management Plan for achievement of the (February 11, 1960) Vision. NRI has appointed him with the expectation that the experience and knowledge nurtured through his career can Member of meetings the Board be utilized in the management of NRI. Hironori Vice Chairman, Newly He has successively assumed various posts at Nomura Securities Co., Ltd., including that of Executive Officer and Senior Executive Managing Director, and possesses long-standing experience in the securities industry, which is one Momose Member of Non-executive — of NRI’s major business areas. He was appointed with the expectation that he will utilize his abundant experience and the Board Appointed (September 15, 1961) excellent understanding gained through his career, in the supervision of the management of NRI. Ayumu Senior Executive He possesses long-standing experience and achievements in the execution of business in the industrial IT solutions Vice President, Board of Directors Ueno Representative Executive 4 years Attended 14 of 14 business area. He has also led growth of the business through overseas M&As and other means as the person (March 15, 1960) in charge of business divisions. NRI has appointed him with the expectation that the experience and knowledge Director, Member of meetings nurtured through his career can be utilized in the management of NRI. the Board Yasuo Representative He possesses a broad range of experience and achievements in the execution of business in the financial IT solutions Director, Member and industrial IT solutions business areas as well as in corporate administration. He also has abundant experience Fukami of the Board, Senior Executive Newly — and achievements in global business in Asia and Europe, such as by being responsible for the management of local (August 12, 1960) Executive Managing Appointed subsidiaries. NRI has appointed him with the expectation that the experience and knowledge nurtured through his Director career can be utilized in the management of NRI. Tadashi He possesses abundant experience and achievements in the management of NRI, having served for six years as Board of Directors President & CEO. Furthermore, as Chairperson of the Board, he is working for the appropriate operation and vitalization Mechanisms for Supporting Value Creation Shimamoto Member of Non-executive 11 years Attended 14 of 14 of the Board of Directors. In addition, as Chairperson of the Nomination Committee, he is endeavoring to ensure the (February 8, 1954) the Board meetings objectivity and fairness of executive appointments. NRI has appointed him with the expectation that the experience and knowledge nurtured through his career can be utilized in the supervision of the management of NRI. Yoshio Board of Directors He possesses long-standing experience and achievements in the execution of business in corporate administration. Member of Furthermore, as Chairperson of the Compensation Committee, he is endeavoring to ensure objectivity and fairness in Usumi the Board Non-executive 2 years Attended 14 of 14 the determination, etc., of director compensations. NRI has appointed him with the expectation that the experience and (July 1, 1958) meetings knowledge nurtured through his career can be utilized in the supervision of the management of NRI. Miwako Non-executive She has long-standing experience as a researcher and a person with responsibilities at a research and development Board of Directors division in the field of advanced information technology. Although she has not been involved in the management of Doi Member of Outside 4 years Attended 14 of 14 a company in a capacity other than Outside Director, NRI requests her reelection as Outside Director to utilize her (June 2, 1954) the Board Independent meetings abundant experience and excellent understanding as a person with expertise gained throughout her career, in the supervision of the management of NRI from an objective standpoint. Masatoshi Non-executive Board of Directors He has been involved in the management of KONICA MINOLTA, INC. for many years. NRI requests his reelection as Matsuzaki Member of Outside 3 years Attended 14 of 14 Outside Director to utilize his abundant experience and excellent understanding concerning corporate management (July 21, 1950) the Board Independent meetings gained throughout his career, in the supervision of the management of NRI from an objective standpoint. Hideaki (after assuming the Non-executive post on June 22, Omiya Member of 2018) He has been involved in the management of Mitsubishi Heavy Industries, Ltd. for many years. NRI requests his election (July 25, 1946) the Board Outside 1 year Board of Directors as Outside Director to utilize his abundant experience and excellent understanding concerning corporate management Independent gained throughout his career, in the supervision of the management of NRI from an objective standpoint. Attended 9 of 11meetings Members of the Audit & Supervisory Board (As of July 1, 2019) Executive Name Terms of Attendance Current positions /Outside Reason for Appointment (Date of birth) office (Year ended March 2019) /Independent Yutaka Audit & Supervisory Board of Directors He has long-standing experience in business execution and achievements in the areas of financial IT Attended 14 of 14 meetings solutions and consulting. NRI requests his election as Audit & Supervisory Board Member to utilize his Harada Board Member — 3 years Audit and Supervisory Committee experience and understanding gained throughout his career, in the auditing of the execution of NRI’s (March 11, 1960) (full-time) Attended 17 of 17 meetings Members of the Board. Kohei (after assuming the post on June 22, 2018) He has long-standing experience in the securities industry, which is one of NRI’s major business areas. Sato Audit & Supervisory Board of Directors Attended NRI requests his election as Outside Audit & Supervisory Board Member to utilize his abundant experience (April 18, 1961) Board Member — Outside 1 year 11 of 11meetings and excellent understanding gained throughout his career, in the auditing of the execution of NRI’s (full-time) Audit and Supervisory Committee Members of the Board from an objective standpoint. Attended 13 of 13 meetings Motoya Audit & Supervisory He possesses a broad range of experience and achievements in the execution of business in the Newly consulting and financial IT solutions business areas as well as in corporate administration. NRI has Nishimura Board Member — — (July 23, 1962) (full-time) Appointed appointed him with the expectation that the experience and knowledge nurtured through his career can be utilized in the audit of the execution of duties by NRI directors. Kiyotaka He serves as Managing Partner of an audit corporation and has long-standing experience as a certified Board of Directors public accountant. Although he has not been involved in the management of a company in a capacity Yamazaki Audit & Supervisory Outside Attended 14 of 14 meetings other than Outside Audit & Supervisory Board Member, NRI requests his reelection as Outside Audit & (April 4, 1953) Board Member 5 years Audit and Supervisory Committee Supervisory Board Member to utilize his abundant experience and excellent understanding concerning Independent Attended 17 of 17 meetings finance and accounting, which he has gained through his career, in the auditing of the execution of NRI’s Members of the Board from an objective standpoint. Noriaki Outside Board of Directors Attended He has been involved in the management of JAPAN TOBACCO INC. for many years. NRI has appointed Audit & Supervisory 13 of 14 meetings him with the expectation that he will utilize his abundant experience and excellent understanding Okubo Board Member 2 years Audit and Supervisory Committee concerning corporate management gained throughout his career, in the auditing of the execution of NRI’s (May 22, 1959) Independent Attended 16 of 17 meetings Members of the Board from an objective standpoint. Integrated Report 2019 66 Mechanisms for Supporting Value Creation G (Governance) Compensation for Members of the Board and Audit & Supervisory Board Members Compensation System for Members of the Board The compensation system for Members of the Board is based on executive position, but, in the interest of enhancing business results, the system emphasizes connections to business performance. The standards employed by the system have been set with reference to market standards and trends and other factors, with the goal of establishing standards appropriate for a leading company in the information services industry. To improve transparency of directors’ compensation and others, NRI has established the Compensation Committee, comprised mainly of Independent Directors, as an advisory body to the Board of Directors. The committee deliberates on the system and standards of executive compensation from the standpoint of fairness and transparency. Using the results of the committee’s inquiries, the Board of Directors sets policies for the determination of compensation for Members of the Board and other matters. Compensation for the Members of the Board of NRI is comprised of the three categories (a. basic compensation, b. bonuses and c. stock-based compensation). Outside Members of the Board do not receive a b. bonus or c. stock-based compensation. The maximum compensation total for Members of the Board: ¥1,000 million per annum (Although, this shall not include employee salaries of Members of the Board who concurrently serve as employees). Mechanisms for Supporting Value Creation Based on the Plan, the compensation provided for granting restricted stock to Eligible Members of the Board shall take the form of monetary compensation claims Stock-based compensation as long-term incentives within the limit of ¥120 million per annum Stock-based compensation as medium-term incentives within the limit of ¥280 million per annum Total of not more than ¥400 million per annum a. Basic compensation •Basic compensation consists of fixed pay (basic pay and position pay), which is compensation based on each Member of the Board’s post. b. Bonuses •Bonuses are positioned as a short-term incentive. They reflect performance in the relevant fiscal year and their determination takes into account differences in posts and positions c. Stock-based •Provision of restricted stock compensation (financial compensation used as investment assets for the acquisition of compensation shares with restriction on transfer compensation) as stock-based compensation in order to provide incentives aimed (restricted at sustainable improvements in the Company’s corporate value and to promote the sharing of value with shareholders stock-based through share ownership compensation) •The number of shares allocated is determined in accordance with executive positions. Note that, based on the Stock Ownership Guidelines for Executive Officers, Members of the Board are expected to hold more than a certain number of shares of NRI’s stock, in accordance with their respective positions. Stock-based compensation Stock-based compensation as long-term incentives as medium-term incentives Long-term incentive aimed at promotion of Medium-term incentive aimed at the sharing of value with shareholders through improvements in the Company’s medium•Stock-based compensation= share ownership and sustainable improvements + term results and share price as represented in the Company’s corporate value in the Medium-Term Management Plan The transfer restriction term is from the The transfer restriction term is from the day of allotment to the day of retirement as an day of allotment and lasts between three and officer, etc., of NRI or its subsidiary five years thereafter Emphasis is placed on bonuses and stock-based compensations so as to create a compensation system that is highly linked to performance. The approximate ratio of constituent elements of the compensations of directors, etc., in the fiscal year ended March 2019, is as follows. If basic compensation is equalized to “1”, then the bonus is “0.6” and stock-based compensation is “1.1”. If fixed compensation is “1”, then performance-based compensation is “1.7”. (Performance-based compensation) 1.7 (Fixed compensation) (Short-term performance-based (Mediumto long-term performanceBasic compensation compensation) based compensation) 1 Bonus Stock-based compensation 0.6 1.1 Notes 1. Calculations are based on the Board of Directors average for the fiscal year ended March 2019 (excluding Outside Directors and Directors who retired or assumed their post during the period) 2. Stock-based compensations herein are the total amount of monetary compensation receivables that would be contributed in kind in exchange for the shares with transfer restrictions. 67 Nomura Research Institute Contents ▶ Compensation for Members of the Audit & Supervisory Board Members Policies for the determination of compensation for Audit & Supervisory Board Members and other matters are set through discussions among the Audit & Supervisory Board Members. The role of the Audit & Supervisory Board Members is to audit the Members of the Board in the performance of their duties and to do so from an independent standpoint. However, given that the full-time Audit & Supervisory Board Members share with the Members of the Board the objective of realizing sound, sustainable growth for NRI, their compensation, in addition to a fixed amount, includes a variable portion that changes in accordance with our business performance. Levels of compensation have been set based on the need to secure human resources capable of playing important roles in the establishment and operation of effective corporate governance. The maximum compensation total for Audit & Supervisory Board Members: ¥250 million per annum a. Basic compensation •Basic compensation consists of fixed pay based on each Audit & Supervisory Board Member’s career, knowledge, responsibilities. b. Bonuses •Bonuses are only paid to the full-time Audit & Supervisory Board Members, and it is based on our business performance during the current fiscal year. Executive Compensation Amounts Executive compensation for the fiscal year ended March 2019 is as follows. The CEO to employee pay ratio for the fiscal year ended March 2019 was 9.4: 1, with the President & CEO Shingo Konomoto receiving compensation of ¥115 million compared to an average employee salary of ¥12 million. Mechanisms for Supporting Value Creation Compensation by type (millions of yen) Fixed Total Performance-based compensation No. of eligible compensation Category compensation individuals (millions of yen) Restricted Other (persons) Basic Bonus Stock options stock option Total compensation compensation Members of the Board 415 200 112 60 39 212 2 6 (Excluding Outside Members of the Board) Audit & Supervisory Board Members (Excluding Outside Audit & 82 58 22 0 — 23 1 2 Supervisory Board Members) Outside Members of the Board and 105 93 11 — — 11 0 8 Outside Audit & Supervisory Board Members Notes 1. The above includes two Directors and one Audit & Supervisory Board Member who retired at the conclusion of the 52nd Ordinary General Meeting of Shareholders held on June 22, 2018. 2. For stock options, the total fair value of subscription rights to shares has been converted to costs equally in accordance with the term of service from the day of the allotment of subscription rights to shares to the commencement date of the exercise period. In regard to those granted prior to the fiscal year ended March 2018, the amount converted to costs for the fiscal year ended March 2019, is shown. Furthermore, the stock options for Audit & Supervisory Board Members are those granted before they assumed their post. 3. For Restricted stock option compensations, the total amount of monetary compensation receivables that would be contributed in kind in exchange for the shares with transfer restrictions has been converted equally in accordance with the term of service from the day of the allotment of shares with transfer restrictions to the day of the lifting of transfer restrictions. The amount posted as expenses in the fiscal year ended March 2019 is shown. 4. Because the amounts of the “stock option” and “restricted stock option compensations” of Notes 2 and 3 above posted as expenses are equalized in accordance with respective terms of service, each ratio of the constituent elements of the above compensations differ from the ratio of constituent elements of Director compensations, etc., shown on the previous page. 5. “Other” refers to contributions to the defined contribution pension plan and insurance premiums for casualty insurance. Evaluations of the Board of Directors’ Effectiveness (FY March 2019) We implemented evaluations of the Board of Directors’ effectiveness for the fiscal year ended March 2019. By confirming the current state of NRI’s Board of Directors through the effectiveness evaluation, we strive to improve the future operation of the Board. Evaluation methods •Questionnaire targeting all Directors and Audit & Supervisory Board Members •Exchange of views with Independent Directors •Deliberations at a Board of Directors meeting based on the results of the above questionnaire and view exchanging sessions Results •From the points below, we conclude that the Board of Directors is basically stable in its effectiveness. •The Board is composed of members with diverse experience and include three Independent Directors, and a structure for ensuring appropriate decision making and oversight is in place •Open and constructive discussions and exchanges of views are carried out •Individual Directors carry out active deliberations with an understanding of NRI’s business philosophy, business plans, etc., and based on their respective knowledge, and their duties as Directors are fulfilled as such. Challenges for further •Devise creative methods related to the provision of information to the Board of Directors and the operation of the Board to effectiveness enable improvements to be made for even higher quality discussions and decision making Integrated Report 2019 68 Mechanisms for Supporting Value Creation G (Governance) Internal Controls, Corporate Ethics and Compliance Internal Control System NRI has established a basic policy for building an internal control system, while appointing a director in charge of risk management and setting up a department for supervising risk management. In addition, the Integrated Risk Management Committee meets to check the company-wide internal control status as appropriate. The Business Promotion Committee, which all business divisions and group companies attend, also works to ensure that the internal control system is established. Basic policy for building an internal control system http://www.nri.com/jp/company/internal Risk Management PDCA Cycle •Risks that may arise in the course of business execution by the NRI Group are •After an assessment is compiled, the department responsible for risk classified into 13 items including management strategy, business activities, and management holds discussions at the Integrated Risk Management compliance, and the department responsible for each risk conducts a risk Committee and sets the risks that should be managed. It also selects assessment and review of the risk items that takes into consideration the level of prioritized themes (*see below) that have a particularly high level of importance and impact every fiscal year on risk items that have been importance or impact. subclassified even further. Mechanisms for Supporting Value Creation Setting risks •Department responsible for risk management establishes a management structure and conducts integrated risk management in cooperation with the departments, etc. that oversee each risk. •The Integrated Risk Management As necessary, risks are discussed at Committee meets to check the meetings attended by personnel with company-wide internal control status Risk Risk expertise, and appropriate measures are regularly. The Business Promotion taken by the responsible department in Committee, which all business divisions monitoring and prevention cooperation with business divisions. attend, also works to ensure that the improvements measures •BCP (business continuity plans) and DR internal control system is established and (disaster recovery) measures are also out improvements are made. in place for businesses and services that have a significant social impact. I. Continue proper management of quality risks for systems in operation II. Improve the sophistication of management preparedness in information security *Priority themes III. Further strengthen the management of project risks for FY March 2019 IV. Develop governance systems suitable to increasing globalization V. Create comfortable working environments VI. Implement appropriate preparation for fulfilling our business continuity responsibilities Internal Audits Conducted by the Internal Audit Department The Internal Audit Department (21 employees), which functions directly under the President & CEO, audits the Company to ensure the effectiveness of risk management and compliance systems and to maintain the efficiency of the execution of the Members of the Board. The results of such audits are reported to the President & CEO and other directors, and when corrections or improvements are required, the Risk Management Supervisory Department, the representative departments and the business divisions, collaborate to introduce improvements. In addition, the Internal Audit Department works to cooperate with the accounting auditor through regular exchange of opinions regarding plans for conducting internal audits and their results. 69 Nomura Research Institute Contents ▶ The Strengthen of Global Governance With the promotion of globalization, NRI’s overseas businessBusiness Management Through es now extend to 42 offices in 14 countries and territories (as Local Holding Companies, etc. of June 2019). The strengthening of governance is now an imperative. In regard to acquired subsidiaries, communication Local holding company, etc. Territory regions with the core human resources of each subsidiary is emphaNRI Australia (Melbourne) Australia sized, with control by the Board of Directors as the general rule. NRI Holdings America (New York) United States Furthermore, we are promoting the spread of global policies Nomura through local holding companies and strengthening business Research NRI Asia Pacific (Singapore) Asia management. At the same time, we are considering adopting Institute NRI Beijing (Beijing) Mainland China International Financial Reporting Standards (IFRS) so as to promote business administration through global standards. Japan and Europe Corporate Ethics and Compliance System To ensure effective ethics and compliance systems, NRI has appointed the Chief Ethics Officer and Chief Compliance Officer, and established the Compliance Committee. Moreover, we have established NRI Group’s Code of Business Principles expressing code of business principles and NRI Group Employees’ Code of Business Conduct indicating employees’ code of business conduct. NRI Group’s Code of Business Principles NRI Group Employees’ Code of Business Conduct https://www.nri.com/en/company/company_code https://www.nri.com/en/company/business_code Mechanisms for Supporting Value Creation The Fundamental Rules composed of 12 items prepared and monitored to confirm that these principles and policies are complied with and that the company’s management is reliably going in the right direction. Regular training to raise the awareness of executives and employees towards compliance is conducted, as well as training on the legal knowledge, etc. required for individual operations. Through this training, efforts are made to thoroughly instill awareness on matters such as prohibitions on bribes and facilitation payments to public officials and the importance of compliance with antitrust laws. RI Group Policy on Human Rights NRI Group Anti-Bribery Policy https://www.nri.com/en/sustainability/social/policies NRI Group Competition Law Compliance Policy NRI has prescribed Whistleblower Protection Regulations based on the Whistleblower Protection Act, and established internal and external hotlines as contact point that Japanese Group employees can use to consult with regarding compliancerelated issues. Raising and Instilling Compliance Information Communication Process the Awareness of Executives and President & CEO, Member of the Board (Committee Chief Ethics Officer) Employees through the Rule Book Report “Whistle-blowing Director in charge system” of Compliance We have created a Rule (referred to as “Compliance Hotline”) Book (Fundamental Rules for Integrated Risk (Internal/External) Executive Officers and General Compliance Committee Management Committee Staff) as a pamphlet that explains the action guidelines, Disciplinary etc. of the Company to ensure Headquarters Action that executives and employees Secretariat of Integrated Risk Management Department Committee comply with laws, •Overall risk assessment Division Manager regulations, etc. with a high •Overall total of Fundamental Rules monitoring General Manager sense of ethics. By raising results and instilling awareness the Compliance Committee Notification of compliance using Representative Departments this, we work to put in •Risk materialization monitoring place the foundations •Implementation of risk reduction measures for our compliance •Implementation of Fundamental Rules monitoring Regular Temporary structure. employees employees Integrated Report 2019 70 Mechanisms for Supporting Value Creation G (Governance) Message from the Outside Member of Board and the Audit & Supervisory Board Member Message from the Outside Member of Board Masatoshi Matsuzaki Member of the Board Mechanisms for Supporting Value Creation An Overseer Rather Than an Adviser accordance with that as well. In meetings of the Board of Directors, roles are divided One point of emphasis when I accept a position as an Outside between Inside and Outside Members of the Board and Audit Member of the Board is whether the company’s management & Supervisory Board Members, and effective discussions are team has the intense desire to improve governance. The reaheld. I believe that the Board of Directors, consisting of three son that I accepted the offer from NRI was because the manexecutive directors, three non-executive directors, and three agement team clearly displayed their intention to implement outside directors, also has a configuration with a high level of solid governance. In addition, the policy of “clearly separating NRI-style effectiveness. For example, in discussions regardsupervisory and executive functions while being a company ing M&A in Australia, strict opinions and deeply meaningful with an Audit & Supervisory Board” resonated with me. Further, questions were exchanged in the context of each person’s my individual role was clarified with the words “We look forward experiences. I believe that, as a result, the necessary key points to your knowledge of management reform and global managewere identified from a broad perspective, and that the Board of ment, including governance-related reforms,” and I thought that Directors was able to make decisions calmly and rationally. I might be of some help. Through my experiences, I have come to believe that the Establishing an Environment for Risk-taking role of an Outside Member of the Board is as an overseer, rather than providing advice on management. And, questions are One of the axes on which the new Medium-Term Management more important than anything else. In NRI’s Board of Directors Plan turns is global expansion. The broader the target of as well, oversight of management is conducted by asking the entry, the more risk factors will increase, so I believe that the question “What risks are likely to arise?” with a sense of “procurrent direction of first centering implementation in Australia fessional skepticism.” is appropriate. I anticipate that preparations for future risks will be conducted appropriately by the Global Headquarters Organizational Design that Ensures NRI-style that was newly established to strengthen global governance. That being said, a variety of new issues will be faced as part of Effectiveness global management, such as how deeply NRI can get involved There are a variety of opinions regarding the ideal nature of orin companies it has acquired through M&A. I want NRI to utilize ganizational design, but I believe that it is best to think carefully these experiences to deepen its knowledge as a company. In about the nature of governance the management teams is aimthe future as well, I will continue to point out issues from the ing for, and then to select something that is suited to achieving perspective of whether the actions deviate from the original it. NRI is truly a great example of that. Despite being a compurpose of M&A. pany with an Audit & Supervisory Board, advisory committees On the other hand, I do not believe that putting on the are established regarding compensation and nomination to brakes is necessarily the only role of an Outside Member of the obtain outside perspectives as well. In addition, the discussion Board. I believe that it is also the role of an Outside Member of process is highly transparent, and in regard to the succession the Board to ask “How deep is the company commitment?” of the CEO and other executives, NRI has a framework to when launching new efforts, such as globalization, and if systematically select and cultivate the next human resources. necessary for growth, establish an environment that makes it The Nomination Committee conducts discussions and acts in possible to take risks. 71 Nomura Research Institute Contents ▶ Message from the Outside Audit & Supervisory Board Member Noriaki Okubo Audit & Supervisory Board Member Mechanisms for Supporting Value Creation Focusing the Spotlight on “Stumbling Blocks” companies that have different systems of values. In the process of taking on such new challenges, in my As an Outside Audit & Supervisory Board Member, I strive experience, the organizational diversity generated by “unusual to ask questions and point things out frankly when I have talents” serves as energy. I believe that NRI has cultivated a the slightest concern, even if it is something that executive large number of excellent human resources who are able to directors may think is obvious. Even in the most wonderful responsibly carry out consulting and system development organization, there will always be a budding problem in many projects, but for further growth in the future, I think that it will projects, etc., that increase with the scale of the organization. be even more necessary to build an environment that facilitates Even if there does not appear to be a problem on the surface, I recognition of and investment in human resources who have identify and point out matters that could be “stumbling blocks” “unusual talents,” and taking on challenges without fear of failfrom the perspective of governance, and points that could be ure. Of course, this also requires establishment of an environhelpful in preparations in the future. ment for appropriate management of the risks that are involved. The executive side of NRI sincerely addresses such issues Regardless of the company, sustainable growth requires the pointed out by Outside Audit & Supervisory Board Members. company to continue taking on challenges. When implementing NRI has established opportunities for Audit & Supervisory NRI’s growth strategy, I hope to be able to help, as an Outside Board Members to exchange opinions with the Representative Audit & Supervisory Board Member, to achieve the strategy by Director on a regular basis, and I have experienced many solidly identifying anticipated risks. occasions on which projects that began from an issue pointed out by an Audit & Supervisory Board Member are addressed in Continue Responding to Society’s Expectations meetings of the Board of Directors, measures are discussed, toward Information Systems then implemented at the site. I believe that the accumulation of these steady efforts has crystalized as a high level of risk Society’s dependence on information systems has changed management that has made it possible to generally suppress over the past few years, and society’s demands for security unforeseen, major unprofitable projects over the past few years. have increased significantly. System business brands are cultivated from functionality, cost, and a variety of other eleSupport for the Challenge of Implementing Growth ments, but the weight of security quality has increased, without Strategy question. NRI has designated “Co-creating a safe and secure society” as one of the social values it should aim for, and the NRI’s actual performance is strong, and risks are being importance of information system security in society has of managed firmly, but it is when performance is strong that it is course been recognized, but the management team, as well necessary to avoid excessive application to the current state, as each employee, must have a stronger awareness that they and to invest in the future and make preparations to encourage are carrying the most important societal infrastructure. I hope changes in the company. The pillar of the strategy in NRI’s to be able to contribute to enabling NRI to continue responding Medium-Term Management Plan is DX Strategy and the accelto the level of security management demanded by society, by eration of globalization, but it is likely that NRI will face a variety pointing out risks that I have identified, from an objective perof issues it has not experienced in the past, such as creating spective as an Audit & Supervisory Board Member. a new business model for DX, and management of overseas Integrated Report 2019 72 Mechanisms for Supporting Value Creation G (Governance) NRI Executives Members of the Board Shingo Konomoto Executive Hironori Momose Non-executive Date of birth: February 11, 1960 Date of birth: September 15, 1961 Newly appointed Chairman and President & CEO, Vice Chairman, Member of the Board (—) Representative Director, Member of the Board (46,400 shares) Apr. 1985 Joined Nomura Securities Co., Ltd. (currently, Nomura Holdings, Inc.) Apr. 1985 Joined the Company Apr. 2008 Executive Managing Director of Nomura Securities Co., Ltd. Arp. 2004 Senior Managing Director Oct. 2008 Senior Managing Director of Nomura Securities Co., Ltd. Division Manager of Consulting Division III Apr. 2013 Senior Corporate Managing Director of Nomura Securities Co., Ltd. Apr. 2010 Senior Corporate Managing Director Apr. 2016 Senior Executive Vice President of Nomura Securities Co., Ltd. Division Manager of Consulting Division Apr. 2019 Adviser of Nomura Securities Co., Ltd. Apr. 2015 Senior Executive Managing Director in charge of Supervising of Jun. 2019 Vice Chairman, Member of the Board of the Company (present) Business Divisions and Consulting Jun. 2015 Representative Director, Member of the Board, Senior Executive Managing Director in charge of Supervising of Business Divisions and Consulting Apr. 2016 President & CEO, Representative Director, Member of the Board Jun. 2019 Chairman and President & CEO, Representative Director, Member of the Board (present) Ayumu Ueno Executive Yasuo Fukami Executive Date of birth: March 15, 1960 Date of birth: August 12, 1960 Newly appointed Senior Executive Vice President, Representative Director, Member of the Board, Representative Director, Member of the Board, Senior Executive Managing Director, in charge of Supervising of Business Divisions (25,400 shares) in charge of Supervising of Corporate Administration (21,300 shares) Apr. 1983 Joined the Company Apr. 1983 Joined the Company Apr. 2008 Senior Managing Director Apr. 2011 Senior Managing Director, Deputy Division Manager of Distribution &  Deputy Division Manager of Center for Innovative Systems Research for Management Communication Solution Division Apr. 2013 Senior Corporate Managing Director in charge of Distribution, Communication & Apr. 2016 Senior Corporate Managing Director, in charge of Distribution, Industrial Solutions Communication & Industrial Solutions Division Manager of Distribution & Communication Solution Division Division Manager of Distribution & Communication Solution Division Mechanisms for Supporting Value Creation Apr. 2015 Senior Executive Managing Director in charge of Distribution, Apr. 2017 Senior Corporate Managing Director in charge of Supervising Corporate Communication & Industrial Solutions and China & Asia Region Systems Administration Division Manager of Industrial Solution Business Development Division Apr. 2019 Senior Executive Managing Director in charge of Supervising Corporate Jun. 2015 Member of the Board, Senior Executive Managing Director in charge of Distribution, Administration Communication & Industrial Solutions and China & Asia Region Systems Jun. 2019 Representative Director, Member of the Board, Senior Executive Managing Division Manager of Industrial Solution Business Development Division Director, in charge of Supervising of Corporate Administration (present) Apr. 2016 Representative Director, Member of the Board, Senior Executive Managing Director in charge of Supervising of Consulting and Industrial IT Solutions Apr. 2018 Senior Executive Vice President, Representative Director, Member of the Board, in charge of Supervising of Business Divisions (present) Tadashi Shimamoto Non-executive Yoshio Usumi Non-executive Date of birth: February 8, 1954 Date of birth: July 1, 1958 Member of the Board (124,400 shares) Member of the Board (23,100 shares) Apr. 1976 Joined the Company Apr. 1983 Joined the Company Jun. 2001 Member of the Board Apr. 2010 Senior Managing Director in charge of Corporate Planning, Corporate Division Manager of Advanced Information Technology Division Communications and Legal & Intellectual Property Apr. 2002 Senior Managing Director Apr. 2015 Senior Corporate Managing Director in charge of Corporate Administration, Division Manager of Advanced Information Technology Division Corporate Planning, Corporate Communications, Personnel and Legal & Apr. 2004 Senior Corporate Managing Director Intellectual Property Division Manager of Advanced Information Technology Division Division Manager of Center for Human-Resources Development Deputy Division Manager of Center for Knowledge Exchange & Creation Apr. 2017 Senior Corporate Managing Director in charge of Supervising Corporate Apr. 2008 Senior Executive Managing Director in charge of Supervising of Business Divisions Administration Jun. 2008 Representative Director, Member of the Board, Senior Executive Managing Jun. 2017 Representative Director, Member of the Board, Senior Corporate Managing Director in charge of Supervising of Business Divisions Director in charge of Supervising of Corporate Administration Apr. 2010 President & CEO, Representative Director, Member of the Board Apr. 2018 Representative Director, Member of the Board, Senior Executive Managing In charge of Supervising of Business Divisions Director in charge of Supervising of Corporate Administration Apr. 2015 Chairman and President & CEO, Representative Director, Member of the Board Jun. 2019 Member of the Board (present) Apr. 2016 Chairman, Member of the Board <Important concurrent positions> Jun. 2019 Member of the Board (present) Outside Director of Yahoo Japan Corporation Miwako Doi Non-executive Masatoshi Matsuzaki Non-executive Date of birth: June 2, 1954 Outside Independent Date of birth: July 21, 1950 Outside Independent Member of the Board (Note 1) (1,700 shares) Member of the Board (Note 1) (2,000 shares) Apr. 1979 Joined Tokyo Shibaura Electric Co., Ltd. (currently, TOSHIBA CORPORATION) Apr. 1976 Joined Konishiroku Photo Industry Co., Ltd. (currently, KONICA MINOLTA, INC.) Jul. 2005 Senior Fellow of Corporate Research & Development Center of Oct. 2003 Director of Konica Minolta Business Technologies, Inc. TOSHIBA CORPORATION (currently, KONICA MINOLTA, INC.) Jul. 2008 Chief Fellow of Corporate Research & Development Center of Apr. 2005 Executive Officer of KONICA MINOLTA HOLDINGS, INC. TOSHIBA CORPORATION (currently, KONICA MINOLTA, INC.; the same hereinafter) Apr. 2014 Auditor of National Institute of Information and Representative Director and President of Konica Minolta Technology Center, Inc. Communications Technology (present) (currently, KONICA MINOLTA, INC.) Jun. 2015 Member of the Board of the Company (present) Apr. 2006 Senior Executive Officer of KONICA MINOLTA HOLDINGS, INC. <Important concurrent positions> Jun. 2006 Director and Senior Executive Officer of KONICA MINOLTA HOLDINGS, INC. Auditor of National Institute of Information and Communications Technology Apr. 2009 Director, President and CEO, and Representative Executive Officer of Outside Director of Isetan Mitsukoshi Holdings Ltd. KONICA MINOLTA HOLDINGS, INC. Apr. 2013 Director, President and CEO, and Representative Executive Officer of KONICA MINOLTA, INC. Apr. 2014 Director and Chairman of the Board of KONICA MINOLTA, INC. (present) Jun. 2016 Member of the Board of the Company (present) Hideaki Omiya Non-executive <Important concurrent positions> Date of birth: July 25, 1946 Outside Independent Director and Chairman of the Board of KONICA MINOLTA, INC. Outside Director of Ichigo Inc. Member of the Board (Note 1) (–) Outside Director of Nippon Sheet Glass Company, Limited Outside Director and Chairman of the Board of LIXIL Group Corporation Jun. 1969 Joined Mitsubishi Heavy Industries, Ltd. Jun. 2002 Member of the Board of Mitsubishi Heavy Industries, Ltd. Jun. 2005 Member of the Board (Representative Director), Executive Vice President of Mitsubishi Heavy Industries, Ltd. Apr. 2007 Member of the Board (Representative Director), Senior Executive Vice President of Mitsubishi Heavy Industries, Ltd. Apr. 2008 Member of the Board (Representative Director), President and CEO of Mitsubishi Heavy Industries, Ltd. Apr. 2013 Chairman of the Board (Representative Director) of Mitsubishi Heavy Industries, Ltd. Jun. 2014 Chairman of the Board of Mitsubishi Heavy Industries, Ltd. (present) Jun. 2018 Member of the Board of the Company Apr. 2019 Member of the Bard, Counselor of Mitsubishi Heavy Industries, Ltd. Jun. 2019 Counselor of Mitsubishi Heavy Industries, Ltd. (present) <Important concurrent positions> Counselor of Mitsubishi Heavy Industries, Ltd. Outside Director of SEIKO EPSON CORPORATION 73 Nomura Research Institute Contents ▶ Audit & Supervisory Board Members Yutaka Harada Kohei Sato Outside Date of birth: March 11, 1960 Date of birth: April 18, 1961 Audit & Supervisory Board Member (full-time) (47,300 shares) Audit & Supervisory Board Member (full-time) (200 shares) Apr. 1982 Joined the Company Apr. 1984 Joined The Nomura Securities Co., Ltd. (currently, Nomura Holdings, Inc.) Apr. 2008 Senior Managing Director, Deputy Division Manager of Insurance Systems Division Apr. 2007 Executive Managing Director of Nomura Securities Co., Ltd. Apr. 2010 Senior Managing Director, Division Manager of Insurance Systems Division Oct. 2008 Senior Managing Director of Nomura Securities Co., Ltd. Apr. 2013 Senior Corporate Managing Director, Division Manager of Insurance Solution Apr. 2009 Director of Nomura Securities Co., Ltd. Division Apr. 2011 Senior Corporate Managing Director of Nomura Securities Co., Ltd. Apr. 2014 Senior Corporate Managing Director, Division Manager of Systems Consulting Apr. 2013 President and Chief Executive Officer, Representative Director of Division NOMURA BABCOCK & BROWN CO., LTD. Apr. 2016 Adviser of the Company Apr. 2018 Adviser of Nomura Securities Co., Ltd. Jun. 2016 Audit & Supervisory Board Member of the Company (present) Jun. 2018 Audit & Supervisory Board Member of the Company (present) Motoya Nishimura Newly appointed Kiyotaka Yamazaki Outside Independent Date of birth: July 23, 1962 Date of birth: April 4, 1953 Audit & Supervisory Board Member (full-time) (18,800 shares) Audit & Supervisory Board Member (Note 1) (2,900 shares) Apr. 1987 Joined the Company Oct. 1979 Joined M. Serizawa & CO. (CPA Office) Apr. 2015 Managing Director of the Company, Deputy Division Manager of Systems Aug. 1983 Registered as a certified public accountant Consulting Division Jul. 2005 Partner of M. Serizawa & CO. (currently, GYOSEI & CO.) Aug. 2015 Managing Director of the Company, Deputy Division Manager of the Systems Oct. 2006 Managing Partner of GYOSEI & CO. Consulting Division and Executive Manager, Insurance Solution Division Sep. 2007 Vice Executive Director, Partner of GYOSEI & CO. Apr. 2018 Senior Managing Director of the Company, Deputy Division Manager of General Manager of Head Office Tokyo of GYOSEI & CO. the Systems Consulting Division Jul. 2010 Managing Partner (CEO) of GYOSEI & CO. Apr. 2019 Counselor of the Company Jun. 2014 Audit & Supervisory Board Member of the Company (present) Jun. 2019 Audit & Supervisory Board Member of the Company (present) Jul. 2014 Managing Partner of GYOSEI & CO. Mechanisms for Supporting Value Creation Oct. 2017 Partner of GYOSEI & CO. Oct. 2018 Adviser of the same company (present) <Important concurrent positions> Adviser of GYOSEI & CO. Noriaki Okubo Outside Independent Notes: 1. Miwako Doi, Masatoshi Matsuzaki and Hideaki Omiya are Outside Directors. Date of birth: May 22, 1959 Kiyotaka Yamazaki and Noriaki Okubo are Outside Audit & Supervisory Board Audit & Supervisory Board Member (Note 1) (–) Members. NRI specifies those members as Independent Directors pursuant to the regulations of the Tokyo Stock Exchange and has notified them to the said stock Apr. 1983 Joined Japan Tobacco and Salt Public Corporation (currently, JAPAN TOBACCO INC.) exchange. Jun. 2004 Member of the Board, Senior Vice President of JAPAN TOBACCO INC. 2. Members of the Board were selected at the Ordinary General Meeting of Jun. 2006 Member of the Board, Executive Vice President of JAPAN TOBACCO INC. Jun. 2009 Member of the Board, Senior Executive Vice President of Shareholders held on June 20, 2019. JAPAN TOBACCO INC. 3. For the Audit & Supervisory Board Members, Yutaka Harada was selected at the Jun. 2012 Executive Deputy President, Representative Director of Ordinary General Meeting of Shareholders held on June 17, 2016, Noriaki Okubo JAPAN TOBACCO INC. Jun. 2016 President of Tobacco Academic Studies Center (present) was selected at the Ordinary General Meeting of Shareholders held on June 23, Jun. 2017 Audit & Supervisory Board Member of the Company (present) 2017, Kouhei Sato and Kiyotaka Yamazaki were selected at the Ordinary General <Important concurrent positions> Meeting of Shareholders held on June 22, 2018, and Motoya Nishimura was President of Tobacco Academic Studies Center selected at the Ordinary General Meeting of Shareholders held on June 20, 2019. 4. Figures in parentheses are the number of shares of NRI stock owned. This includes holdings in the executive share ownership plan as of June 25, 2019. A stock split was executed as of July 1, 2019 with a ratio of three shares per share. These figures constitute the number of shares prior to that split. Senior Managing Directors, Managing Directors and Executive Fellows NRI makes a distinction between the Board of Directors’ decision-making on management strategy and business execution function, and the authority and responsibilities for business execution are largely delegated to Senior Managing Directors, etc. There are 49 Senior Managing Directors, etc. (excluding three people who serve concurrently as a Member of the Board). Senior Executive Managing Directors Akio Yamamoto Susumu Nishimoto Ichiro Morisawa Tomoshiro Takemoto Yasushi Kobara Kazuya Kobayashi Harumi Saitou Naohiro Sako Shoichi Ohno Noriyasu Kogure Tatsuya Watahiki Hirofumi Tatematsu Akira Matsumoto Kaga Yanagisawa Masaki Takimoto Shuji Tateno Tetsuro Watanabe Kotaro Gunji Hiroshi Funakura Hidenori Anzai Shigekazu Ohmoto Hideki Saito Hajime Ueda Ken Ebato Hiroyuki Kawanami Takefumi Ikeya Yoshio Murata Sonoko Kitagawa Senior Managing Directors Jun Odashima Executive Fellows Senior Corporate Managing Directors Yasuki Nakamaru Minoru Yokote Takeshi Hihara Yasuki Okai Kenji Yokoyama Namiki Kubo Kotaro Kuwazu Shigeki Hayashi Yuichi Higo Managing Directors Takuhito Sakata Katsutoshi Murakami Fumihiko Sagano Hisao Nakajima Masaaki Yamazaki Yoichi Inada Tohru Yasumaru Koji Shimizu Hiroshi Masutani Tomohiko Noguchi Hiroshi Koike Integrated Report 2019 74 Mechanisms for Supporting Value Creation G (Governance) Cooperation with Stakeholders •Stakeholder Dialogue We visited the World Business Council for Sustainable Development (WBCSD), an international NPO for the promotion of the SDGs, located in Geneva, Switzerland, on August 2, 2018, RobecoSAM, an international ESG evaluation organization located in Zurich, on August 3, to host NRI’s second overseas dialogues. Opinions were exchanged on topics such as “What ESG investors want from companies” and “The approach companies should take regarding the SDGs.” The opinions, etc., obtained as a result will be utilized in future sustainability management. (Affiliation and position as of August 2018) The benefits of joining WBCSD At WBCSD, we have close to 30 active, target projects. Each member company participates in two or three target projects. There are three benefits to joining WBCSD, as follows: 1. Sharing “Mission & Vision” By joining WBCSD, the company can exchange views with CEO-level executives from 200 Mechanisms for Supporting Value Creation companies, share the sustainability vision and values, and build a human network at the annual CEO meetings. 2. Gain a foothold as a leading company By participating in the working group for target projects, the company can establish its position Federico Merlo as a leading company exercising initiative in the field. WBCSD Managing Director of Member 3. Obtain knowledge and wisdom and be part of the shaping and creating of new business solutions Relations & Senior The company can obtain knowledge on world trends through activities in WBCSD and collecting Management Team information at meetings. They can also be part of the creation of solution before these are imposed on companies through regulation or emergencies. How does it promote SDGs? WBCSD supports businesses collaborate and generate added value in how they specifically, through business, address social challenges identified in the SDGs. At WBCSD, we believe that no single company can solve social issues alone. And to expand impact on society and scalability, we recommend businesses to participate in the activities based on the following three concepts: •Innovation: Provide innovation to solve social issues through sustainable business; •Collaboration: Connect businesses with various stakeholders and other companies for value creation; and Filippo Veglio •Valuation: Discover true value and not just economic value. WBCSD Managing Director of People & Senior Management Team What expectations do ESG investors have for companies? We believe that companies should not just contribute to creating a more sustainable world, but also build a sustainable and profitable business through providing solutions to challenges stemming from ESG issues. We analyze how companies are operating while quantitatively measuring their positive and negative impacts on society and whether they disclose that information. In future corporate management strategy, the question will be whether the company has established a permanent risk management system in the management decision-making process for minimizing risk in contingencies. This will require accurately identifying signs of social change. Companies are expected to have a functional management system that subsumes a full range of Edoardo Gai values from the point of view of diversity and inclusion. RobecoSAM Managing Director, Head of Sustainability Service 75 Nomura Research Institute Contents ▶ The fear and expectation in ICT industry The ICT industry has always played a crucial role in the development of society. Not only by connecting people and corporations, but also by making all kind of processes more reliable and efficient. Nowadays, similar to what was experienced with the introduction of new technologies, there is a big fear that AI and industry 5.0 will erase many jobs, creating a big societal imbalance. It is therefore very important that the development of these new technologies is thoroughly followed, and all stakeholders are involved in order to limit the negative impacts. Only through adhering to this process it will be possible to state that the introduction of a new technology has generated a net positive impact on the economy and the society. It is therefore crucial at this point that all Jvan Gaffuri actors and stakeholders collaborate in order to find the best way for the future. We at RobecoSAM RobecoSAM Director, Senior Manager, are very open to listen and, where possible, contribute to the discussion. Sustainability Services In what form do you require companies to disclose their ESG information? From our perspective it is not relevant which channel a company uses to disclose their data. It can be a data book which focuses on ESG, an integrated report, a website or any other format. What is relevant to us is that the information is audited, easily accessible and found, and that the company explains how this information is financially material. For investors it is relevant that the disclosed information provides enough background for an analysis for potential negative risks and the impact that these risks might have on the business if they become real. This information should be preMechanisms for Supporting Value Creation sented in ways which are easy to understand for the investors. Companies can build trust and fulfill Manjit Jus their accountability by publicly disclosing their processes for resolving selected issues. RobecoSAM Director, Head of ESG Ratings We are building sustainable future, tomorrow Thank you very much for your valuable opinions. It struck me that ESG investors expect companies to integrate efforts to build a sustainable society in the business strategy and to disclose the impact of such a business strategy. It also struck me that as for the ICT industry, while there are concerns for the negative impact from advancement in technology, there are even greater expectations for the positive side of such advancement. Our aims will be to develop as an ICT company in ways we can meet the expectations of ESG investors. We have long considered our response to SDGs. Your input has helped us understand the fundamental aspects of SDGs so that we are beginning to have a better image of our approach Kenji Yokoyama to SDGs. To address SDG-related social issues, we hope to work with other companies and Senior Corporate enable our company to generate social value through business. Managing Director, NRI We are building sustainable future, tomorrow. Status of Response to Issues Identified in Past Stakeholder Dialogues Identified issue NRI’s response status Business opportunities can The Medium-Term Management Plan (2019-2022) advocates “solving social issues through value co-creation,” stipulates be obtained by incorporating that business will be promoted with creation of three social values at the core, namely, “Co-create a thriving future society by driving new value,” “Co-create an ideal society by effectively utilizing its resources,” and “Co-create a safe and secure ESG in NRI’s products and society by advancing its infrastructure.” With the perspective of sustainability built into the business strategy, and the KPIs services as part of the related to such non-financial information set, we plan to incorporate it into the management PDCA and monitor it, and promotion of globalization release progress updates. It is necessary to manage the NRI conducts research on AI, and related system development, operation, and utilization, while at the same time development of new recognizing the possibility that AI will adversely affect society. Currently, we are working on the creation of “AI Ethics Guidelines” (tentative title), which will serve as guidelines for the actions of all of NRI’s directors and employees, enabling technology appropriately so them to develop and utilize AI to achieve an AI society with humans at the center. “Principles of Human-centric AI that it does not adversely Society,” “Recommendation of the Council on Artificial Intelligence” and various other guidelines are being used as a affect the economy or society reference. In FY March 2019, we conducted an NRI-wide human rights risk assessment and identified potential human rights risks in It is necessary to consider NRI's business activities, with the aim of addressing human rights issues unique to the ICT industry. In the future, we plan human rights issues that are to identify the burden on human rights through a human rights impact assessment that analyzes and evaluates the unique to the ICT industry potential for those risks and the degree of impact on human rights, then work to prevent or reduce it. Integrated Report 2019 76 Mechanisms for Supporting Value Creation •Cooperation with Clients and Business Partners NRI’s stakeholders, mainly consisting of clients, employees and their family members, shareholders and investors and business partners, include a wide range of entities composed of general consumers, media, local communities, industry associations and competitors, government agencies, education/ research institutions, students and NGOs/NPOs. Cooperation with Clients The Main Items for Deliberation on New Contracts NRI engages in sincere business activities for its clients and strives to deliver services that are satisfactory and in conformity with client agreements. •Credit screening tapping into information from research firms •Project-by-project deliberation at the Senior •Comprehensive deliberation on new contracts Management Committee and each division meeting In response to business contract requests from clients, we decide to accept •Comprehensive assessment on the future them by conducting the examinations. We make our final decision after potential, growth potential and social effects of thoroughly considering the fiduciary duty on quality and delivered date, as the business well as legal, ethical and operational risks for the contract. Results of the Client •Client satisfaction surveys Satisfaction Survey NRI conducts client satisfaction surveys for each project and has clients (non-consolidated) evaluate the entire project. We also obtain specific feedback from clients on Percentage that responded “Satisfied” or Mechanisms for Supporting Value Creation our proposal-making skills and incident-management procedures. “Moderately satisfied” (Total for top two The Quality Management Department complies and analyzes overall items on five-grade scale) trends through the results from the survey. It also provides the departments （%） 87.0 87 in charge of the project with feedback from the surveys and implements 86 measures to follow up on the feedback and enhance service quality, lever85 84.6 aging the data to improve the service quality. 84 83.4 82.9 83 82.0 82 81 Cooperation with Business Partner 80 15.3 16.3 17.3 18.3 19.3 NRI’s operations are based on cooperation with its business partners, such The investigation targets all business units. as external contractors and suppliers. Accordingly, NRI has a fundamental Customers and projects services that will be policy of building business relationships that are mutually beneficial, as well the target of the investigation are selected for each business unit based on set criteria. as obey sound business practices and laws. NRI Group Procurement Policy https://www.nri.com/en/company/partner Hosting of Partner When an NRI system development project is contracted out to a business Sustainability Dialogues partner, it should be assessed comprehensively with respect to its technoPartner sustainability dialogues are logical capability, quality, delivery date, cost of products and services, staffhosted each year to build a structure ing and platform, financial condition, compliance and efforts on information of cooperation with business partners, security management. Overseas business partners should also be screened in an aim to promote sustainability under laws such as the Foreign Exchange and Foreign Trade Act. activities. Seventeen business partThe number of employees involved in business at NRI’s business partners participated in the January 2019 ners stands at approximately 11,000, about half of which are permanently event, with five of those companies instationed in NRI offices. troducing their sustainability activities. To continue the appropriate contract services, we formulated the Guidelines Relating to Contract Work. Moreover, we separate the work sites of business partner employees under a contract service agreement from the work site of NRI employees, preventing a practice of falsified contract service in which an NRI employee directly issues instructions and orders to a business partner employee. We annually conduct the required self-inspections. Lively discussions with business partners regarding the ideal nature of cooperation in sustainability activities 77 Nomura Research Institute Contents ▶ G (Governance) Information Disclosure and Communication NRI is committed to gain the trust of shareholders and investors through constructive dialogue, and to receive an appropriate evaluation from capital markets. For these reasons, taking fair disclosure as our fundamental policy, we are working to promote understanding of both our business and our mediumto long-term strategies for growth, and to expand our shareholder and investor base. Measures Aimed at Ensuring a Meaningful General Meeting of Shareholders To energize the General Meeting of Shareholders and ensure that voting rights are exercised, we perform the following procedures: •Set the date of the General Meeting of Shareholders on a day where such meetings are not concentrated •In addition to sending out individual notices of convocation of a General Meeting of Shareholders earlier, post the notice on the NRI and Tokyo Stock Exchange websites prior to sending the individual notices. This effort allows shareholders to have sufficient time to consider the proposed resolutions for the meeting The 54th Ordinary General Meeting of Shareholders: Notice released on May 23→Meeting held on June 20 (Notice about one month before) •Send out a notice of convocation of a General Meeting of Shareholders electronically to shareholders consenting to such procedure •Deliver a notice of convocation of a General Meeting of Shareholders in English (summary) •Provide an opportunity to exercise voting rights by using the Internet system run by a trust bank (a shareholder register administrator) •Provide an opportunity to exercise voting rights by using the Voting Rights Electronic Exercise Platform, run by ICJ, Inc. Mechanisms for Supporting Value Creation •Hold a Management Reporting Session for shareholders after the conclusion of the General Meeting of Shareholders Hosting of ESG Briefings Active Dialogues with Shareholders and Investors We host “ESG briefings” to help With the aim of expanding our shareholder and investor base, we are proinvestors, analysts, and the media moting better understanding of our business activities and strategies for gain an understanding of NRI’s growth through direct and indirect communication. The following principle sustainability management and activities were implemented during the fiscal year ended March 2019: specific efforts regarding ESG. The February 2019 briefing welcomed 84 For •Shareholder questionnaire: Number of respondents is 2,861 participants. shareholders (Number of sent: 10,926 shareholders/Collection rate: 26.2%) For institutional •Number of investors met: 487 persons investors and •Domestic: In addition to results briefing sessions for each quarter and individual analysts interviews, held small meetings with management, business briefings, etc. •Overseas: Visited 13 cities in overseas roadshows/overseas conferences For individual •Individual investor information meeting: Four were held (two in Tokyo and one investors each in Osaka and Fukuoka) •Number of attendees: 1,171 persons ESG briefing See the website for details on ESG briefings. Providing Appropriate Information Disclosure https://www.nri.com/en/sustainability/ management/esg/2018 In order to achieve accountability to shareholders, investors, and other stakeholders, NRI is striving to enhance the level of information disclosure External Evaluation of NRI and the timely disclosure of information through activities including those below. •2018 Award for Excellence in •Disclosed the Long-Term Management Vision and the Medium-Term Management Plan Corporate Disclosure (Computer (mid-and long-term management strategy and numerical targets etc.) Software Sector) (The Securities Analysts Association •Established the Disclosure Committee, which checks the preparing process for, and apof Japan) propriateness of, disclosed materials •Published our financial results and latest information promptly under the Investor Relations section on our website •Provided a dedicated website for individual investors to enhance information disclosure and understandability and clarity Integrated Report 2019 78 Mechanisms for Supporting Value Creation G (Governance) NRI’s Quality Management We continually work to improve the quality of services, fully aware of our responsibility to deliver and operate information systems that serve as a key component of social infrastructure. NRI’s Quality Management Framework Navigation Solution Management Planning and Maintenance strategy planning development of and operation of information systems information systems Quality of information Quality of systems security Quality of in operation information system development Quality of Quality of data workplace center operation environment Mechanisms for Supporting Value Creation Initiatives for Improving the Quality of Information Systems Each division is responsible for quality management over system development, Project Support System for Improving the Quality of Information Systems maintenance and operations, and consulting services projects. In addition, NRI has an NRI-QMS Production System failures organization which proposes and supports (quality management system) innovation management quality management activities for each division. In addition, work is under way to post Information system Information system NRI standard Newly development project Enhancement project all of the knowledge gathered at NRI on its framework internal website in order to share expertise Planning Development Release Operations / Improvements and examples across the entire Company. Enhancement Project supervision Risk management innovation / •Project supervision activities to support Operational innovation the quality of information system development The Quality Management Division provides Project Supervision Activities both supervisory and Project Management Internal review system Company-wide Office functions for each individual division, project monitoring when they develop a new information activities system. Senior Management In addition to “project management” Committee •Project awareness for project implementation and success, •Monitoring via NRI has a “project supervision” function Systems Development Committee scheduled status Project reporting to propose quality improvements, and to Proposal and System System Estimate Review Development Release •Reviews, scheduled identify and resolve issues early on. Meeting Meeting Meeting status meetings To ensure that internal reviews are •Review of project not merely process checks, committee Division Design deliverables members gathered from each division Committee •Assessing and developing counterenacts a strict check through the system measures regarding details, thus achieving a high level of quality. Department Design Committee / project status Internal project review 79 Nomura Research Institute Contents ▶ •Emphasis on quality of systems in operation Operating and maintaining completed information systems of a high quality not only builds solid relationships with clients, but also provides opportunities to improve and propose new solutions for the streamlining and further growth of clients’ businesses. For this reason, NRI refers to operations and maintenance projects as “enhancement projects,” which are assigned the same level of importance as projects to develop new information systems. Production Innovation Initiatives NRI has held the Production Innovation Forum every year since the fiscal year ended March 2011. At this forum, each business division shares initiatives related to productivity and quality improvements in a company-wide manner, and production innovation activities are promoted throughout NRI through means such as the The Production Innovation Forum enhancement service reforms award that is venue and enhancement service given in recognition of innovative initiatives. reforms award ceremony We will continue to make endless improvements as a leader of the IT services industry and foster a corporate culture of taking on new challenges. Mechanisms for Supporting Value Creation •Quality of data center management that supports stable operations The stable operation of information systems requires not only the quality of the information system itself, but also the quality of the data center that operates and manages the information system. In order to ensure stable operation of information systems, and to provide safe and secure quality of services, NRI visualizes the risks related to data center services, conducting training for each type of issue that could be anticipated. It also conducts inspections that are interconnected with data center facilities. In respect to these efforts, NRI has obtained certification from third party review agencies. Safety and Security Forum The stable operation of data centers is NRI’s social mission. As part of this mission, we hold a forum on the themes of safety and security every year. The forum served as an opportunity for employees to pledge to the stable operation of information systems, with lectures on safety by external experts centered around the concepts of thinking, learning, and not forgetting, and awards for excellent slogans on safety and security Safety and Security Forum and thought up by individual employees. safety and security slogan grand prize award ceremony Examples of Certifications and Assurances Acquired by NRI • ISO9001 (quality management system) • ISO14001 (environmental management system) • ISO20000 (IT service management) • ISO27001 (Cloud services security) • SOC 1/SOC 2 Report (internal control assurance report) • Uptime Institute M&O (global certification standard for data center management prescribed by Uptime Institute)* *Certification acquired for Tokyo Data Center I, Yokohama Data Center II, and Osaka Data Center II Integrated Report 2019 80 Mechanisms for Supporting Value Creation Quality of Information Security NRI operates important infrastructure that supports society including finance and distribution. We have established an advanced information security framework to continue service and protect important information at all times, and through that framework, we work to remain a trusted partner to our clients and society. •Policies relating to information security NRI and its group companies declare that the NRI Group shall observe all applicable laws and ordinances and shall fully recognize the roles that companies offering information services should play. The NRI Group has established a framework of advanced information security management that can serve as a social model to enable its companies to continue to be worthy of customer and public trust. Declaration of Information Security Measures https://www.nri.com/en/site/security_declare •Related rules concerning information security In response to laws and regulations related to information security and the advance of information technologies, we establish or revise management rules as appropriate, including the Information Security Management Rules, Confidential Information Management Rules, Personal Information Management Rules, Specific Personal Information Management Rules, and Information Asset Management Rules. In addition, we have prepared operating procedures, guidelines, manuals, etc. for each of these management rules to Mechanisms for Supporting Value Creation ensure that consistent and effective information security management is conducted. •Information security management structure NRI has appointed a Chief Information Security Officer, who has developed a system of information security management for our organization as a whole. All business divisions and Group companies have appointed an information security manager and information security person-in-charge (PIC), who have developed a mesh structure that allows security measures to be undertaken on a cross-organizational basis. As well as furthering the implementation of our information security policies, this structure will enable us to respond swiftly, accurately, and reliably in the event of cyber-attacks and other security emergencies. The NRI Group contains specialist organizations that conduct surveys and research of the latest information technologies, as well as NRI SecureTechnologies, Ltd. (hereinafter, “NRI Secure”) that engages exclusively in information security business. We will draw on their technology, know-how and knowledge when preparing and implementing our information security policies. We have appointed an information security manager and an information security PIC at each of our overseas and domestic Group companies, who are directing the development of an effective information security system and the drafting of an information security enhancement plan at their company. In addition, the NRI Group has set certain information security protection standards, and engages in improvement drives designed to meet those standards. Information Security Management Structure Planning and implementation Chief InformationSecurity Officer Headquarters structure (General Affairs Department, Review of information Information Security Support Legal and Intellectual Property security activities Promotion Committee Department, Integrated Risk (Composed of directors and Management Department) department managers, etc. of Security Management Department divisions that implement measures) Practice NRI SecureTechnologies Person responsible for division Division Information Security Person-in-Charge Support Person responsible for department In-department Information NRI Workplace Services Security Person-in-Charge Employees 81 Nomura Research Institute Contents ▶ •Education on information security NRI conducts ongoing information security education to raise the awareness of information security, instill regulations, and improve the quality of security during design and development. In addition to conducting specific training tailored to the particular characteristics of our Divisions and Group companies, we arrange training for our overseas offices that can be undertaken in English and/or Chinese. We also actively incorporate group training and e-learning methods into our training programs. •Response to cyber-attacks NRI uses system-based defenses against cyber attacks, such as installing anti-virus (anti-malware *1) software, hard drive encryption, and installing different security measures (such as firewalls, IDS*2, and network behavior analysis technology*3). However, NRI is well aware that just system responses alone are not enough for defense, and to that end it is putting in place a Computer Security Incident Response Team (CSIRT*4). A CSIRT acts like a fire extinguisher, denying further success to any attack that does in fact strike a system. It collects, evaluates and shares that is organized, swift, and appropriate. We also conduct for our employees education and training, such as ongoing real-life training against phishing emails. *1 Malware, or “malicious software,” is a software program that upon infecting a computer automatically takes remote control of that computer, either stealing data that it stores or causing it to attack other computers. *2 Intrusion Detection System: A system for detecting unauthorized access to a computer or system. *3 Malware used in a phishing attack is often produced to target a specific company alone, which means it may not be possible for general anti-virus software to detect and eliminate it. NBA technology works by running software suspected of being malware in a highly restricted environment called a “sandbox.” Checks are then made to see if the software is engaging in behavior such as information exploitation or preparatory activity to that end, and if it is, it is eliminated. *4 Computer Security Incident Response Team: This is the entity (a team) that takes the appropriate response when it receives notice of a computer security incident. Alternatively CSIRT refers to the functions of that entity. •NRI’s handling of personal data (including Individual numbers) Mechanisms for Supporting Value Creation NRI has a Personal Data Protection Statement, and it has made its Privacy Policy available to the public. In accordance with the Statement and Policy, our employees comply with the Act on the Protection of Personal Information Held by Administrative Organs; the Act on the Use of Numbers to Identify a Specific Individual in Administrative Procedures (the “My Number Act”); and other relevant laws and regulations. NRI demonstrates flexibility in its responses to changes demanded by the public, such as keeping abreast of rules and guidelines on the protection of personal information issued by regulatory authorities by the Personal Information Protection Commission. Personal Data Protection Statement https://www.nri.com/en/site/security Privacy Policy https://www.nri.com/en/site/privacy NRI Secure recognized as an information security market leader by research firms in Japan and overseas As part of the “2018 Best Practice Award” released by the major US research and consulting firm Frost & Sullivan Inc., NRI Secure was named the “Japan Managed Security Service Provider of the Year,” the top award in the Managed Security Services category, for the second year in a row. In addition, the company was introduced as a representative global vendor by Gartner, Inc. (U.S.)*1, in their Market Guide for Digital Forensics and Incident Response Services*2. Meanwhile, for the second year in a row, NRI Secure was number one in the market in terms of sales Received the 2018 Japan by vendors in FY2017, according to the market study report “ITR Market View: Cyber Security Consulting Managed Security Service Provider of the Year award Services Market 2018” issued by the leading Japanese IT consulting firm ITR Corporation. from Frost & Sullivan *1 Listing of specific vendors, products, or services in Gartner Research publications does not imply recommendation or promotion by Gartner. In addition, it does not constitute advice to technology users to select only vendors that have received the highest ratings or other assessments. Publications by Gartner Research represent the opinions of Gartner Research, and are not necessarily statements of fact. Gartner assumes no liability for the merchantability or suitability for specific purposes of this research, etc., whether explicit or implied. *2 Gartner “Market Guide for Digital Forensics and Incident Response Services”, by Brian Reed and Toby Bussa (04Dec2018) Quality of Workplace Environment NRI promotes a multitude of initiatives to foster a workplace environment where employees can keep on working positively in good mental and physical health. In 2016, the Tokyo Headquarters was relocated, followed by relocation of the Yokohama Center and Osaka Center in 2017. Each of these buildings has an open layout with no assigned seating, and common spaces such as meeting rooms. The relocations served as an opportunity for efforts to create a better place to work through innovation in work style and by reforming the organizational atmosphere. Additionally, there are continuous efforts under way to establish sophisticated management that considers employee health. Such efforts include the introduction of a framework for allowing project managers, and those in project supervisory departments, to grasp the overtime hours of project members. Integrated Report 2019 82 11-year Summary Consolidated Financial Statements For the fiscal years beginning April 1 and ending March 31 of the following year Consolidated Financial Results This financial summary is prepared solely for convenience. https://ir.nri.com/en/ir/finance.html Readers are recommended to refer to Consolidated Financial Results. 2009.3 2010.3 2011.3 2012.3 Consolidated Statement of Income: Sales 341,279 338,629 326,328 335,554 Cost of sales 240,854 245,641 233,119 235,515 Gross profit 100,425 92,988 93,209 100,038 Selling, general and administrative expenses 50,711 52,911 54,782 56,886 Directors’ compensations 1,242 1,125 1,093 899 Salaries and allowances 16,272 18,261 19,167 20,065 Provision for bonuses 3,826 3,700 4,283 4,527 Retirement benefit expenses 1,690 2,111 2,260 2,347 Welfare expenses 3,165 3,376 3,641 3,651 Education and training expenses 1,250 1,477 1,451 1,567 Operations consignment expenses 8,168 7,270 6,831 8,401 EBITDA 70,476 70,992 69,094 74,027 Operating profit 49,713 40,077 38,426 43,152 Non-operating income and profit 2,017 870 1,646 1,533 Ordinary profit 51,731 40,947 40,073 44,686 Extraordinary income and loss (7,549) (3,618) (219) 11,518 Income taxes 19,668 15,476 16,663 23,283 Profit attributable to owners of parent 24,513 21,856 23,188 32,920 Consolidated Balance Sheet (year-end): Total Assets 354,487 363,368 380,032 402,784 Current assets 122,572 137,744 177,593 176,804 Cash and bank deposits 20,307 15,055 16,757 8,462 Fixed Assets 231,915 225,623 202,439 225,980 Tangible fixed assets 58,274 58,965 58,451 67,569 Intangible fixed assets 74,886 68,319 57,641 57,861 Goodwill — — — — Investments and other assets 98,754 98,339 86,346 100,549 Corporate Information / Data Investment securities 55,436 53,699 43,964 61,273 Total liabilities 149,020 143,131 148,957 144,507 Current liabilities 70,026 67,195 68,160 69,380 Short-term loans payable — — — — Provision for loss on orders received — — — — Non-current liabilities 78,994 75,936 80,797 75,126 Bonds 49,997 49,997 49,997 49,997 Long-term loans payable — — 9,176 6,677 Net assets 205,466 220,237 231,074 258,276 Consolidated Statement of Cash Flows: Cash flows from operating activities 46,180 58,060 48,777 53,067 Cash flows from investing activities (70,994) (16,175) (27,723) (47,731) (Investing activities except cash management purpose investment) (74,058) (28,184) (19,292) (25,299) Free cash flow (24,813) 41,885 21,054 5,335 (Free cash flow except cash management purpose investment) (27,877) 29,876 29,485 27,767 Cash flows from financing activities (22,414) (10,348) 1,590 (10,438) Effect of exchange rate change on cash and cash equivalents (68) 10 (335) 62 Net increase (decrease) in cash and cash equivalents (47,296) 31,547 22,309 (5,041) Cash and cash equivalents at end of period 28,228 59,775 82,085 77,043 Cash and cash equivalents + 51,271 73,837 104,417 121,601 Cash management purpose investment Notes: 1. Figures less than unit indicated have been rounded down for amounts. 2. Consumption tax and local consumption tax are accounted for by the tax-exclusion method. 3. EBITDA is calculated as Operating profit + Depreciation and amortization + Goodwill amortization up to the fiscal year ended March 2017 and as Operating profit + Depreciation and amortization + Goodwill amortization + Loss on retirement of noncurrent assets from the fiscal year ended March 2018. 83 Nomura Research Institute Contents ▶ (millions of yen) 2013.3 2014.3 2015.3 2016.3 2017.3 2018.3 2019.3 363,891 385,932 405,984 421,439 424,548 471,488 501,243 262,315 276,664 289,210 287,270 280,761 311,868 336,508 101,575 109,267 116,774 134,168 143,787 159,619 164,735 57,608 59,450 65,287 75,873 85,272 94,481 93,293 878 986 1,316 1,227 1,213 1,101 1,069 20,080 20,087 22,450 25,395 27,576 29,681 30,506 4,582 4,715 5,136 5,802 5,993 6,751 6,783 2,492 2,458 2,105 2,155 3,038 2,678 2,533 3,641 3,786 4,362 4,935 5,842 6,348 6,532 1,843 1,853 1,789 1,712 1,768 1,705 1,851 8,823 9,640 11,170 14,246 16,722 16,740 17,073 86,567 84,126 77,528 91,814 88,933 103,177 108,846 43,967 49,816 51,486 58,295 58,514 65,138 71,442 1,891 2,544 1,455 2,705 1,839 1,023 967 45,858 52,360 52,942 61,001 60,354 66,161 72,409 (2,988) 349 6,132 1,304 4,638 16,366 4,340 14,261 21,175 19,209 19,513 21,042 26,356 25,213 28,612 31,527 38,880 42,648 45,064 55,145 50,931 432,222 469,010 593,213 621,695 628,944 643,117 612,192 189,206 208,121 298,565 306,943 295,915 298,275 285,788 10,273 9,885 26,469 62,138 152,610 159,541 124,773 243,016 260,888 294,647 314,751 333,029 344,842 326,404 63,456 62,767 53,915 65,384 63,790 68,528 65,376 42,854 42,712 55,582 65,085 99,485 103,747 91,505 — — — 7,864 35,404 36,624 27,572 136,705 155,408 185,148 184,280 169,754 172,566 169,522 Corporate Information / Data 88,378 94,766 116,480 120,397 103,841 88,999 80,203 141,404 137,601 189,745 196,286 181,646 210,442 187,160 118,207 79,841 113,208 134,304 111,552 162,133 124,264 — — 10,645 2,270 2,870 6,074 6,345 579 3,083 3,911 1,345 1,591 50 933 23,196 57,759 75,988 61,327 69,500 47,714 62,419 — 30,000 30,000 15,000 25,000 34,082 33,931 4,250 22,054 21,333 27,969 24,396 408 13,213 290,818 331,408 403,467 425,409 447,297 432,674 425,032 68,600 33,839 58,710 81,470 61,147 73,493 56,349 (36,019) (32,234) (1,093) (75,344) (30,341) (17,882) (16,826) (34,055) (38,086) (13,800) (52,725) (41,348) (30,162) (15,025) 32,580 1,605 57,617 6,126 30,805 55,610 39,523 34,544 (4,246) 44,910 28,744 19,799 43,330 41,324 (10,723) (8,773) (10,536) 9,326 (34,327) (46,829) (73,106) 721 337 694 (1,071) 624 (2,529) (1,519) 22,579 (6,830) 47,775 14,381 (2,897) 6,251 (35,102) 99,623 92,792 140,567 154,949 152,051 158,303 123,200 145,974 133,350 169,023 206,031 192,028 185,882 152,743 Integrated Report 2019 84 Consolidate Financial Data (millions of yen) 2014.3 2015.3 2016.3 2017.3 2018.3 2019.3 Segment Information: External sales Consulting 25,631 27,353 28,370 30,574 34,577 41,304 (Sales to Financial IT Solutions 225,313 237,111 252,842 246,979 252,122 252,367 external Securities 115,646 116,534 123,896 119,128 118,397 100,309 customers) Insurance 49,813 56,414 57,082 51,982 51,836 64,874 Banking 31,763 34,584 37,541 40,286 42,225 43,404 Other financial 28,090 29,577 34,321 35,580 39,662 43,780 Industrial IT Solutions 87,322 97,938 101,538 107,208 154,917 174,417 Distribution 44,066 46,705 51,882 54,256 61,057 66,540 Manufacturing, service and other 43,255 51,232 49,656 52,952 93,860 107,876 IT Platform Services 37,579 34,779 28,720 29,241 29,870 33,153 Others 10,085 8,803 9,966 10,544 — — External sales Consulting Sales 25,820 27,749 28,823 31,161 35,332 41,947 + Sales for Operating profit 4,708 5,959 5,487 5,853 6,561 7,810 each segment Operating profit margin (%) 18.2 21.5 19.0 18.8 18.6 18.6 Financial IT Sales 225,345 237,649 253,802 248,188 254,567 255,162 Solutions Operating profit 27,809 22,621 29,171 26,461 27,673 27,095 Operating profit margin (%) 12.3 9.5 11.5 10.7 10.9 10.6 Industrial IT Sales 87,389 98,974 102,859 107,672 157,585 177,114 Solutions Operating profit 8,408 11,769 9,974 9,076 15,119 18,425 Operating profit margin (%) 9.6 11.9 9.7 8.4 9.6 10.4 IT Platform Sales 114,624 113,505 110,044 122,107 122,342 127,777 Services Operating profit 6,470 8,636 11,575 14,015 14,764 17,130 Operating profit margin (%) 5.6 7.6 10.5 11.5 12.1 13.4 External sales Consulting services 42,233 47,110 52,131 62,734 78,987 90,816 by service System development & 143,213 136,710 145,157 131,908 138,111 150,467 System applications sales System management & 187,361 206,698 212,952 217,271 241,198 244,273 Operation services Product sales 13,124 15,465 11,197 12,634 13,191 15,686 Sales to main Nomura Holdings, Inc. 90,688 82,469 68,666 71,600 77,937 60,579 clients Seven & i Holdings Co., Ltd. 40,888 40,973 43,254 45,285 47,001 49,109 Overseas sales Overseas sales 6,945 8,655 14,618 18,925 43,559 53,081 Corporate Information / Data Overseas sales ratio (%) 1.8 2.1 3.5 4.5 9.2 10.6 Notes: 1. Amounts have been rounded down to the nearest unit specified. However, percentages have been rounded off to the nearest digit specified. 2. Sales to main clients includes sales to the client’s subsidiary and sales made through leasing companies, etc. 3. There was a partial revision to segment categorization for the fiscal year ended March 2019. Figures for the fiscal year ended March 2018 reflect this change in categorization. (millions of yen) 2014.3 2015.3 2016.3 2017.3 2018.3 2019.3 Order volume Consulting 25,575 28,390 27,425 34,609 36,285 40,747 Financial IT Solutions 236,216 253,830 256,293 246,153 244,794 265,724 Industrial IT Solutions 88,079 101,380 104,650 116,335 174,260 178,221 IT Platform Services 44,127 31,215 23,352 31,423 30,154 33,467 Others 10,123 9,153 10,840 10,463 — — Total 404,122 423,970 422,561 438,986 485,494 518,161 Order backlog Consulting 4,584 5,622 4,677 8,711 6,764 6,207 Financial IT Solutions 129,548 146,268 149,718 148,893 141,574 154,930 Industrial IT Solutions 51,688 55,412 58,523 67,650 94,120 97,924 IT Platform Services 20,769 17,205 11,837 14,019 14,295 14,609 Others 2,610 2,679 3,553 3,472 — — Total 209,202 227,188 228,310 242,748 256,754 273,672 Notes: 1. Figures less than unit indicated have been rounded down for amounts. 2. The amounts are based on sales price. 3. In regard to continuous services and those services for which fees are received according to the number of times used, etc., expected net sales for the following year is booked as the order amount at the end of each fiscal year. 85 Nomura Research Institute Contents ▶ (millions of yen) 2014.3 2015.3 2016.3 2017.3 2018.3 2019.3 Productions and Orders: Actual production 264,839 280,562 279,405 277,736 304,044 327,324 Subcontracting costs 132,825 141,925 139,303 126,361 135,522 150,635 Of which are subcontracting costs to 21,387 23,482 23,476 18,815 19,532 23,213 Chinese companies Subcontracting ratio (%) 50.2 50.6 49.9 45.5 44.6 46.0 Subcontracting ratio to Chinese companies (%) 16.1 16.5 16.9 14.9 14.4 15.4 Notes: 1. Amounts have been rounded down to the nearest unit specified. However, percentages have been rounded off to the nearest digit specified. 2. The amounts are based on production costs. The amount for each segment is the figure before intra-company transfers between segments. The intra-company transfer amount has been eliminated in the adjusted amount. 3. The subcontracting ratio is the ratio against actual production; the subcontracting ratio to Chinese companies is the ratio against total subcontracting costs. (millions of yen) 2014.3 2015.3 2016.3 2017.3 2018.3 2019.3 Capital Expenditures/Depreciation and Amortization/Research and Development Expenses: Capital expenditures 33,878 31,080 48,325 38,668 38,201 26,276 Capital expenditures (tangible) 11,217 8,349 20,285 13,640 16,188 5,615 Capital expenditures (intangible) 22,661 22,731 28,040 25,027 22,012 20,661 Depreciation and amortization 34,118 25,800 32,598 28,476 31,941 30,427 Research and development expenses 3,903 4,222 5,110 5,674 5,170 3,665 (%) 2014.3 2015.3 2016.3 2017.3 2018.3 2019.3 Ratios: Gross profit margin 28.3 28.8 31.8 33.9 33.9 32.9 Operating profit margin 12.9 12.7 13.8 13.8 13.8 14.3 EBITDA margin 21.8 19.1 21.8 20.9 21.9 21.7 ROE (Return on equity) 10.2 10.8 10.6 10.7 12.9 12.3 ROA (Return on assets) 11.6 10.0 10.0 9.7 10.4 11.5 Corporate Information / Data Debt/Equity ratio (times) 0.17 0.18 0.16 0.13 0.19 0.15 Equity ratio 70.4 65.6 66.2 69.1 65.2 67.1 Price earnings ratio (PER) (times) 20.5 23.2 20.1 22.6 22.1 23.3 Dividend payout ratio 35.9 36.5 41.1 42.4 39.1 41.5 Total return ratio 35.9 36.5 63.4 66.4 129.8 113.4 (yen) 2014.3 2015.3 2016.3 2017.3 2018.3 2019.3 Per Share Information: Earnings per share (EPS) 158 176 171 181 228 216 Diluted earnings per share (EPS) 149 176 170 181 227 215 Book-value per share (BPS) 1,657 1,765 1,646 1,750 1,760 1,763 Dividend per share (DPS) 56 70 80 80 90 90 Notes: 1. Amounts have been rounded down to the nearest unit specified. However, percentages have been rounded off to the nearest digit specified. 2. EBITDA is calculated as Operating profit + Depreciation and amortization + Goodwill amortization up to the fiscal year ended March 2017 and as Operating profit + Depreciation and amortization + Goodwill amortization + Loss on retirement of noncurrent assets from the fiscal year ended March 2018. 3. ROE = Profit attributable to owners of parent / Beginning and ending balance average net assets 4. ROA = Ordinary profit / Beginning and ending balance average total assets 5. NRI implemented a 1.1-for-1 stock split effective January 1, 2017. To reflect this stock split, earnings per share, diluted earnings per share and net assets per share as of and for the years ended March 2016 and 2017 are calculated as if the stock split took place on April 1, 2015. 6. The dividend payout ratio is calculated to include dividends earmarked for the NRI Group Employee Stock Ownership Group. 7. NRI implemented 1:3 common stock split on July 1, 2019. Earnings per share (EPS) and annual dividend per share shown have not been retroactively adjusted for said stock split. Integrated Report 2019 86 ESG Data ESG Databook 2019 E: Environment https://www.nri.com/en/sustainability/library/ back_number Environmental KPI (NRI Group data): 2015.3 2016.3 2017.3 2018.3 2019.3 Greenhouse gas emissions (compared to FY March 2014) (%) 7.9 19.8 26.9 30.0 38.2 Share of renewable energy in data centers (%) 0.1 0.1 0.1 0.1 0.1 Supplier’s environmental target setting ratio (%) n/a n/a n/a 4.6 18.1 (Category 1, 2 and 11 of Scope 3) Greenhouse gas emissions (NRI Group data): 2015.3 2016.3 2017.3 2018.3 2019.3 Direct greenhouse gas emissions (Scope 1) (1,000 t-CO2) 1 1 1 1 1 Japan (1,000 t-CO2) 1 1 1 1 1 Overseas (1,000 t-CO2) 0 0 0 0 0 Direct greenhouse gas emissions (Scope 2) (1,000 t-CO2) 97 84 77 73 65 Japan (1,000 t-CO2) 95 81 74 70 62 Overseas (1,000 t-CO2) 2 3 3 3 2 Total emissions (Scope1 + 2) (1,000 t-CO2) 99 86 78 75 66 Japan (1,000 t-CO2) 96 83 75 72 63 Overseas (1,000 t-CO2) 2 3 3 3 2 Notes: Scope: Target scope of calculation/reporting for greenhouse gas emissions by corporations Scope 1: Direct emissions through combustion of fuel, etc. Scope 2: Indirect emissions through use of electricity, heat, steam, etc. Scope 3: Indirect greenhouse gas emissions other than Scopes 1 and 2. Manufacturing in the supply chain, commuting by employees, business travel, etc. S: Social Number of employees (NRI Group data): 2015.3 2016.3 2017.3 2018.3 2019.3 Persons Percentage (%) Persons Percentage (%) Persons Percentage (%) Persons Percentage (%) Persons Percentage (%) Number of employees 9,012 100 10,757 100 11,605 100 12,708 100 12,578 100 By region Japan 8,105 89.9 8,498 79.0 8,676 74.8 8,821 69.4 9,004 71.6 Europe 12 0.1 21 0.2 12 0.1 14 0.1 15 0.1 U.S. 41 0.5 293 2.7 383 3.3 392 3.1 345 2.7 Asia 854 9.5 1,945 18.1 1,995 17.2 2,052 16.1 1,761 14.0 Of which China 374 4.2 1,398 13.0 1,473 12.7 1,465 11.5 1,168 9.3 Corporate Information / Data Australia — — — — 539 4.6 1,429 11.2 1,453 11.6 Employment related (Non-consolidated data): 2015.3 2016.3 2017.3 2018.3 2019.3 New hires for the year (persons) 294 299 294 340 452 Total turnover rate (%)* 3.2 3.3 3.5 3.8 3.9 Average length of service (years) 13.4 13.8 14.3 14.6 14.6 New graduates hires retention rate after 3 years (%) 95.5 92.5 90.9 93.3 95.9 Average compensation: all employees (thousands of yen) 10,892 11,560 11,514 11,660 12,217 *The total turnover rate is the percentage of the number of retirees compared to the number of employees at period end. Promotion of women’s participation and advancement in the workplace (Non-consolidated data): 2015.3 2016.3 2017.3 2018.3 2019.3 Female employees (%) 18.2 18.8 19.0 19.3 19.8 Female managers (%)* 5.2 5.7 6.1 6.4 6.8 Female hires (%) 25.9 29.8 26.6 24.5 27.4 *Female managers’ ratio is the value at the beginning of the term Childcare leave / Nursing leave (Non-consolidated data): 2015.3 2016.3 2017.3 2018.3 2019.3 Paid maternity leave (persons) 12 17 13 9 13 Preand post-childbirth leave (persons) 53 73 76 56 72 Childcare leave (persons) 56 96 130 252 261 Of whom were male employees (persons) 9 21 60 189 194 Number of employees utilizing shorter work hour system for childcare (persons) 79 96 107 107 113 Employees returning to work after childcare leave (female employees) (%) *1 96.1 97.9 97.3 97.0 96.7 Employees remaining in work after childcare leave (female employees) (%) *2 95.9 92.3 91.7 93.3 92.8 Nursing care leave (persons) 1 1 2 3 3 Note: These are the number of employees who started a period of leave by the end of the fiscal year in question. *1 Number of employees returning to work in the current fiscal year after taking childcare leave / number of employees expected to return to work after taking childcare leave in the fiscal year × 100% *2 Number of employees who returned to work in the previous fiscal year after taking childcare leave and who were employed by NRI as of March 31 of the current fiscal year / number of employees who returned to work after taking childcare leave in the previous fiscal year × 100% 87 Nomura Research Institute Contents ▶ Employment of people with disabilities (NRI Group data): 2015.3 2016.3 2017.3 2018.3 2019.3 Employees with disabilities (persons) 108 117 119 134 136 Percentage of employees with disabilities (%) 2.1 2.2 2.2 2.2 2.4 Note: Number of employees with disabilities at NRI and its Group companies Health and Productivity Management (Non-consolidated data): 2015.3 2016.3 2017.3 2018.3 2019.3 Average overtime hours of employees per month (hours) 33.0 29.8 27.2 22.0 21.5 Employees taking annual paid leave (%) *1 66.9 66.5 70.6 71.4 71.3 Employee work-related deaths (persons) 0 0 0 0 0 Work accidents (cases) *2 1 0 2 0 2 *1 Starting from the fiscal year ended March 2016, this figure includes the summer break (up to 3 days a year) *2 Figure represents the number of either fatal accidents or incidents necessitating four or more days’ leave due to a casualty accident. Client satisfaction survey and employee satisfaction (Non-consolidated data): 2015.3 2016.3 2017.3 2018.3 2019.3 Customer satisfaction (%)*1 82.0 83.4 82.9 84.6 87.0 Employee satisfaction (%)*2 — 60.3 — 80.5 — *1 Percentage that responded “Satisfied” or “Moderately satisfied” (total for top two items on five-grade scale) *2 A response to a question on overall satisfaction is used for employee satisfaction. For the fiscal years ended March 2016, this is the percentage that responded “Satisfied” or “Moderately satisfied” on a five-grade scale, while for the fiscal year ended March 2018, this is the percentage that responded “Satisfied” or “Moderately satisfied” on four-grade scale that no longer contains “Neither nor.” Information communication/Recommendation projects (Non-consolidated data): 2015.3 2016.3 2017.3 2018.3 2019.3 Books published 19 25 13 15 20 Contributions to newspapers and magazines (times) 210 229 273 298 306 Public lectures given (times) 1,088 1,161 937 962 922 TV/radio appearances (times) 81 126 102 158 267 Development of human resources / Development of society (Non-consolidated data): 2015.3 2016.3 2017.3 2018.3 2019.3 Entries to the NRI Student Essay Contest 883 2,622 3,103 1,767 1,444 Supporting career education programs: No. of schools 31 38 34 24 31 No. of students Over 1,700 Over 1,500 1,277 733 850 Corporate Information / Data G: Governance Member of Directors (Non-consolidated data) (As of July 1): 2015 2016 2017 2018 2019 Total number of Directors 10 10 9 7 9 Outside Directors 3 3 3 3 3 Female Directors 1 1 1 1 1 Status of the Board of Directors (Non-consolidated data): 2015.3 2016.3 2017.3 2018.3 2019.3 Number of the Board of Directors held (times) 14 15 14 15 14 Attendance average of all Directors (%) 98 96 96 98 98 Attendance average of Outside Directors (%) 89 88 90 93 95 Attendance average of all Audit & Supervisory Board Members (%) 94 97 99 99 99 Attendance average of Outside Audit & Supervisory Board Members (%) 90 98 98 98 98 Status of the Audit & Supervisory Board (Non-consolidated data): 2015.3 2016.3 2017.3 2018.3 2019.3 Number of the Audit & Supervisory Board held (times) 17 19 18 18 17 Attendance average of all Audit & Supervisory Board Members (%) 95 98 99 100 99 Attendance average of Outside Audit & Supervisory Board Members (%) 92 98 98 100 98 Number of Notification & Consultation (Non-consolidated data): 2015.3 2016.3 2017.3 2018.3 2019.3 Number of notification & consultation (cases) 6 3 8 2 4 Integrated Report 2019 88 NRI Group Network (As of July 1, 2019) Headquarters Overseas Bases Nomura Research Institute, Ltd. [U.S.] Nomura Research Institute Otemachi Financial City Grand Cube, Nomura Research Institute (Beijing), Ltd. 1-9-2, Otemachi, Chiyoda-ku, Holdings America, Inc. Shanghai Branch Tokyo, 100-0004, Japan Dalian Branch Nomura Research Institute Tel. +81(3)5533-2111 Nomura Research Institute America, Inc. Shanghai Limited Nomura Research Institute Beijing Branch IT Solutions America, Inc. Pacific Branch Nomura Research Institute Domestic Bases (Dalian), Ltd. NRI SecureTechnologies, Ltd. NRI Netcom, Ltd. North America Branch Zhiming Software Beijing, Ltd. Chengdu Branch NRI SecureTechnologies, Ltd. Cutter Associates, LLC Zhiming Software Dalian, Ltd. NRI Workplace Services, Ltd. Brierley+Partners, Inc. Los Angeles Branch Zhiming Software Jilin, Ltd. NRI Data i Tech, Ltd. Nomura Research Institute NRI Cyber Patent, Ltd. Taiwan Co., Ltd. NRI Social Information System Services, Nomura Research Institute Ltd. [Europe/Russia] Seoul Co., Ltd. NRI Process Innovation, Ltd. Nomura Research Institute Europe Limited Nomura Research Institute NRI System Techno, Ltd. Luxembourg Branch Thailand DSB Co., Ltd. Cutter Associates Europe, Ltd. Nomura Research Institute Brierley Europe Limited Asia Pacific Private Limited NRI Mirai, Ltd. Nomura Research Institute, Ltd. Moscow Nomura Research Institute Zhiming Software Japan, Ltd. Singapore Pte. Ltd. Branch NRI Retail Next, Ltd. Manila Branch NRI digital, Ltd. Nomura Research Institute Hong Kong Limited Brierley+Partners Japan, Inc. [Asia/Pacific] PT. Nomura Research Institute Nomura Research Institute Indonesia Australia Pty Ltd. Nomura Research Institute ASG Group Limited Consulting and Solutions India Sydney Office Private Limited Canberra Office Nomura Research Institute For more about NRI Group offices around Melbourne Office Financial Technologies India Pvt. Ltd. the world: Brisbane Office https://www.nri.com/en/company/map Nvantage India Private Limited Corporate Information / Data Adelaide Office NRI Group Worldwide Offices NRI Europe NRI IT Solutions America Pacific Branch brierley europe Cutter Associates Europe NRI Europe Luxembourg Branch Moscow Branch NRI Dalian NRI SecureTechnologies North America Branch NRI Beijing Dalian Branch brierley+partners Los Angeles Branch NRI Beijing Zhiming Software Dalian NRI Shanghai Beijing Branch Zhiming Software Beijing Zhiming Software Jilin brierley+partners NRI Shanghai NRI Beijing Shanghai Branch brierley japan Cutter Associates Zhiming Software Japan Zhiming Software Beijing Chengdu Branch NRI Seoul NRI Holdings America NRI America NRI India NRI Hong Kong NRI Taiwan NVANTAGE NRI Singapore Manila Branch NRI FT India NRI IT Solutions America NRI Thailand ASG Brisbane NRI Australia NRI APAC ASG Sydney NRI Singapore ASG Canberra NRI Indonesia ASG Melbourne ASG Adelaide ASG 89 Nomura Research Institute Corporate Data / Share Information Contents ▶ Corporate data (As of March 31, 2019) Component ratio of shareholders (As of March 31, 2019) Name Nomura Research Institute, Ltd. Financial institutions: Headquarters address Otemachi Financial City Grand Cube, Individuals and 18.73% 1-9-2 Otemachi, Chiyoda-ku, other shareholders: Tokyo 100-0004, Japan 14.54% Securities firms: 0.61% Capital ¥19,300 million Companies incorporated Representative Chairman and President & CEO, in other countries: Companies incorporated Representative Director 23.06% in Japan: Shingo Konomoto (As of July 1, 2019) 43.05% Number of employees 12,578 persons (Consolidated-base) Note: The treasury stock is included in “individual and other shareholders.” Share information (As of March 31, 2019) Major shareholders (As of March 31, 2019) Listed stock exchange Tokyo Stock Exchange 1st. Section Number of Percentage Shareholders shares held of shares Code 4307 (1,000 shares) held (%) Fiscal year From April 1 to March 31 of the following year Nomura Holdings, Inc. 69,438 29.62 Ordinary General Nomura Facilities, Inc. 22,506 9.60 June Meeting of Shareholders JAFCO Co., Ltd. 13,156 5.61 A share unit 100 shares Authorized shares 907,500,000 shares NRI Group Employee Stock Ownership Group 9,843 4.20 Issued shares 251,260,000 shares The Master Trust Bank of Japan, Ltd. (Trust Account) 9,114 3.89 Number of shareholders 10,910 persons State Street Bank and Trust Company 505223 8,725 3.72 (Standing Agent: Mizuho Bank, Ltd., settlement division) Transfer agent Mitsubishi UFJ Trust and Banking Corporation (address for inquiries Shin-TOKYO Post Office Nippon Life Insurance Company 8,242 3.52 posts) post office box No.29 137-8081, JAPAN (Standing Agent: The Master Trust Bank of Japan, Ltd.) Mitsubishi UFJ Trust and Banking Corporation Japan Trustee Services Bank, Ltd. (Trust Account) 7,893 3.37 Corporate Agency Division Tel: 0120-232-711 (toll-free) National Mutual Insurance Federation of Agricultural Cooperatives 4,478 1.91 Shareholder Fixed (Standing Agent: The Master Trust Bank of Japan, Ltd.) Day for Dividend September 30, March 31 Payment SEVEN-ELEVEN JAPAN CO., LTD. 2,601 1.11 Note: NRI has 16,822,653 shares of treasury stock as of March 31, 2019 which is not included in the major shareholders list above. Figures for number of shares held are rounded down to the nearest thousand and figures for Corporate Information / Data percentage of shares held are calculated excluding treasury stock. Total Shareholder Return (TSR*1) Over the Past 5 Years (%) 250 NRI TOPIX 200 150 100 50 March 2014 March 2015 March 2016 March 2017 March 2018 March 2019 Holding Period*3 1 year 2 years 3 years 4 years 5 years NRI 140.8% 132.6% 159.7% 198.0% 200.9% TOPIX 130.7% 116.5% 133.7% 154.9% 147.1% *1 A ratio calculated by dividing revenues earned through stock investment (dividends and capital gains) by the amount of investment (stock price) *2 The NRI and TOPIX prices use 100 as the closing price on March 31, 2014. *3 Based on the closing price on March 31, 2019. (Source) Compiled by NRI. Integrated Report 2019 90 Nomura Research Institute, Ltd. Otemachi Financial City Grand Cube, 1-9-2 Otemachi, Chiyoda-ku, Tokyo 100-0004, Japan Tel. +81(3)5533-2111 https://www.nri.com/en Integrated Report 2019 この印刷物はFSC認証紙および植物油インキを使用しています。 Printed in Japan ESG Databook 2019 （Year ended 31st March 2019） 余白ページ ESG Databook 2019 Contents Sustainability Management Sustainability Policy P. 1 Stakeholders P. 2 Materiality P. 3 Information Disclosure P. 4 Governance Corporate Governance Management Approach P. 5 Corporate Governance Data P. 6 Risk Management Management Approach P.10 Risk Management Data P.11 Compliance Management Approach P.15 Compliance Data P.16 Supply Chain Management Management Approach P.19 Supply Chain Management Data P.20 Client Relationship Management Management Approach P.23 Client Relationship Management Data P.24 Innovation Management Data P.25 Quality of Information Systems Management Approach P.28 Quality of Information Systems Data P.29 Information Security Management Approach P.34 Information Security Data P.35 Environmental Environmental Management Management Approach P.39 Environmental Management Data P.41 Climate Change Data P.43 Greenhouse Gas Emissions Data P.45 Energy Consumption Data P.46 Resource Use, Waste Data P.47 NRI Green Bond (3rd Unsecured) Data P.48 Social Labor Practices, Diversity Management Approach P.49 Labor Practices, Diversity Data P.51 Occupational Health and Safety Management Approach P.56 Occupational Health and Safety Data P.57 Human Resources Development Management Approach P.58 Human Resources Development Data P.61 Business and Human Rights Management Approach P.68 Business and Human Rights Data P.69 Corporate Citizenship Data P.73 External assurance External Assurance Document P.75 GRI Standards Content Index ■Notes Symbols in the table Data not available n/a Not applicable Data coverage a NRI group aNRI group (Some ranges excluded) b NRI group (Domestic) bNRI group (Domestic, some ranges excluded) c NRI (Not consolidated) cNRI (Not consolidated, some ranges excluded) d Others Sustainability Mamnagement Sustainability Policy ▶ Sustainability management policy NRI sustainability management policy NRI provides support to clients to solve social challenges in their business and wishes to become a company that co-creates social values together with the customers. This wish has resulted in NRI to approve and participate in the United Nations Global Compact (UNGC), the Task Force on Climate-related Financial Disclosures (TCFD) and others. “NRI Group Medium-Term Management Plan (2019-2022)” states the “solving of social challenges through co-creation of values” and has set to promote the co-creation of three social values, “Co-create a thriving future society by driving new value”, “Co-create an ideal society by effectively utilizing its resources”, and “Co-create a safe and secure society by advancing its infrastructure” at its core to promote business. To be able to be trusted by the society from now on and to respond to such expectations, we must ride the tide of new technology ahead of time while making changes to ourselves, and promote business that will lead to solving the challenges in future society to contribute to creating a sustainable future society, and fulfil our social responsibility. Furthermore, we will listen sincerely to the voices of diversified stakeholders, both domestic and overseas, and control our own actions. NRI Group Sustainability Management ●Solving social issues through value co-creation (CSV) Co-create a thriving future society by driving new value Co-create an ideal society Co-create a safe and secure society by effectively utilizing its resources by advancing its infrastructure Materiality for sustainable growth Creation of a future low Provision of opportunities for all kinds of environmental impact society professionals to take on challenge Compliance with laws, regulations Provision of NRI quality to support safe and risk management to increase trust from society and secure information society Link Files Sustainability Management ESG Briefing https://www.nri.com/en/sustainability/management/esg/2018 Contributing to Innovations in Society and among Clients as a “Company Creating Future Society” https://www.nri.com/-/media/Corporate/en/Files/PDF/ir/library/AR2018e.pdf#page=4 ▶ Sustainability management structure Sustainability management structure NRI has established the Social Value Creation Promotion Committee and Sustainability & Responsibility Committee as presidents as a system for promoting sustainability, and based on the investigations and discussions in both committees, makes recommendations to the management meeting. [Organizational chart] ・ President & CEO Social Value Creation Committee Sustainability & Responsibility Committee Chairperson: Senior Managing Director Chairperson: Senior Corporate Managing Director Promote social value creation Promote activities for stable based on Corporate Philosophy business foundations ▶ Participation in the initiatives Participation in the initiatives • United Nations Global Compact (UNGC) • Japan Climate Initiative (JCI) • World Business Council for Sustainable Development (WBCSD) • Task Force on Climate-related Financial Disclosures (TCFD) • Science Based Targets initiative (SBTi) • Renewable Electricity 100% (RE100) • Japan Business Federation (Keidanren) “Charter of Corporate Behavior” -1Sustainability Mamnagement Stakeholders ▶ Our stakeholders Our stakeholders The NRI Group's stakeholders range from a core of Customers, Employees/Families, Shareholders/Investors, and Business Partners, to also include Consumers, Media, Local Communities, Industry Organizations / Industry Peers, Government, Education and Research Institutes, Students, and NGO/NPOs. We will continue to create a better future society and build stronger relationships of trust with society, all the while maintaining close communication tailored to the peculiarities of each stakeholder. ▶ Stakeholder dialogue Stakeholder dialogue The NRI Group values the opportunities in its daily business activities to listen to the opinions of and communicate with stakeholders in a variety of ways. Furthermore, in addition to our daily discussions, we engage in dialogue with opinion-maker and rule-maker experts to understand global sustainability trends and reflect them in management strategies and risk management. In FY2016, we engaged in a dialogue on the theme of SDGs (Sustainable Development Goals) and exchanged opinions on the direction of the kind of future creation NRI should aim for. In FY2017, a dialogue on the theme of ESG investment was held in London, and another on the theme of business and human rights was held in Tokyo, and we received valuable feedback on how ESG issues such as the problem of digital rights in the ICT industry should be integrated into NRI's business activities. In 2018, he visited the World Business Council for Sustainable Development (WBCSD), an international NPO promoting SDGs in Geneva, Switzerland, and also visited the international ESG evaluation organization RobecoSAM in Zurich, and held a second dialogue. We exchanged opinions on what ESG investors want from companies and what we should do as companies toward SDGs. In addition, we held the first ESG briefing session to introduce sustainability management and specific ESG initiatives, and obtained valuable opinions from our stakeholders regarding Co-creation of NRI values . Dialogues are attended by the NRI Group's Senior Corporate Managing Director, who is responsible for sustainability and CSR, and the system is one that directly reflects dialogue results in strengthening governance and management. Link File Stakeholder Dialogue https://www.nri.com/en/sustainability/management/dialogue Sustainability Management ESG Briefing Session https://www.nri.com/en/sustainability/management/esg/2018 -2Sustainability Mamnagement Materiality ▶ Materiality Materiality NRI's 15 material issues (materiality) were identified based on international standards and guideline categories from ISO26000, GRI* G4 Guidelines, Dow Jones Sustainability Indices (DJSI), and the SASB (United States Sustainability Accounting Standards Board), and the United Nations Global Compact. Provision of NRI quality to support safe and secure information society • Information security / system management • Access to information society Provision of opportunities for all kinds of professionals to take on challenges • Diversity of human resources • Dialogue with society • Communication with customers • Sound hiring practices and labor-management relations • Respect for human rights Compliance with laws, regulations and risk management to increase trust form society • Strengthening corporate governance • Risk/crisis management • Prevention of overseas • Appropriate disclosure of information to customers Creation of a future, low environmental impact society • Response on climate change • Consumption of sustainable energy • Recognize responsibility and protect the environment • Show consideration for environments in our supply chain * GRI: Global Reporting Initiative Identification process of materiality Step1 Clarification of issue elements based on international standards Clarify elements that may be issues to be considered for sustainable growth based on guidelines for international standards, etc., and prepare an exhaustive list. Step2 Identification of materiality Extract and identify highly important elements clarified from management (horizontal axis) and external stakeholders (vertical axis) perspectives. Step3 Hearings with experts and management review Adjust highly material elements based on the opinions from external experts, securing the reliability and objectivity of the elements, and identify through management review. ▶ Key performance indicators of materiality Creation of a future, low environmental impact society Target material issue Response on climate change Long-term target By FY 2030, NRI Group will reduce greenhouse gas by 55% compared to FY 2013. (Scope1+2). Target year FY 2030 progress FY 2018: Greenhouse gas emissions reduction rate 38.2% (compared to FY 2013) Provision of opportunities for all kinds of professionals to take on challenges Target material issue Diversity of human resources Long-term target 1. Increase the female manager ratio to at least 8.5% by the end of FY 2022 (add more than 100 female managers) 2. Make women's recruitment rate over 30% 3. Conduct awareness raising regarding diversity management for managers Target year FY 2022 progress FY 2018: Female managerial ratio 6.8%, female recruitment ratio 27.6% Provision of NRI quality to support safe and secure information society Target material issue Information security / system management Long-term target NRI manages the result of the security review of the client system and corrective situation, and the audit result and corrective situation for each business base and business partner as indicator. Target year Ongoing efforts progress FY 2018: There were no information system incidents that had serious financial and social impacts. -3Sustainability Mamnagement Information Disclosure ▶ Structure of disclosure of information Information disclosure system Integrated report (booklet and PDF) An overall picture of NRI's corporate value creation activities is explained in concise and clear manner. ESG Databook (PDF) We disclose in detail non-financial information relating to the environment (E), Society (S), and Governance (G). Sustainability Book (booklet and PDF) An overview of the year's sustainability promotion activities is explained in an easily understood manner. Website Information about the NRI Group, shareholder and investor information, CSR information, and other information are disclosed in detail. Link Files Approach to Disclosure https://www.nri.com/en/ir/policy Sustainability https://www.nri.com/en/sustainability Sustainability Report https://www.nri.com/en/sustainability/library/back_number ▶ Scope of reporting / Reporting period / Independent assurance Scope of reporting The disclosure of financial and non-financial information applies as a general rule to the NRI Group (Nomura Research Institute, Inc., and its consolidated subsidiaries). Some of the non-financial information targets a specific range, in which case said range is clearly specified separately. Reporting period Content is mainly focused on initiatives from FY2018 (from April 1, 2018 to March 31, 2019), but may also include some background information, activities after April 1, 2019, or planned future activities. Independent assurance We have obtained certification from third-party certification organizations for some environmental data. Link File Independent Assurance Report (P.75) https://www.nri.com//media/Corporate/en/Files/PDF/sustainability/library/back_number/ESG_Databook_2019_2_en.pdf#page=78 ▶ Guidelines referenced for the disclosure of information Guidelines referenced for disclosure • The International Integrated Reporting Framework by the International Integrated Reporting Council (IIRC) • Global Reporting Initiative (GRI) Sustainability Reporting Standards • Environmental Reporting Guidelines (2018 version) of the Ministry of the Environment of Japan • UN Guiding Principles Reporting Framework • Corporate Human Rights Benchmark Link File GRI Standards Content Index https://www.nri.com//media/Corporate/en/Files/PDF/sustainability/library/back_number/ESG_Databook_2019_2_en.pdf#page=79 ▶ External evaluation External evaluation Inclusion in ESG stock indices • Dow Jones Sustainability World Index (2018－) • Dow Jones Sustainability Asia/Pacific Index (2016－) • MSCI ACWI ESG Leaders Index (2016－) • FTSE4Good Developed Index (2006－) • MSCI Japan ESG Select Leaders Index (2017－) • MSCI Japan Empowering Woman Index (2017－) • FTSE Blossom Japan Index (2017－) • SNAM Sustainability Index Diversity related evaluation • Selected as “Nadeshiko Brand” (The Ministry of Economy and the Tokyo Stock Exchange) • Received the highest level of “Eruboshi” (The Ministry of Health, Labor and Walfare) Health and productivity management related evaluation • Certified as “Excellent Enterprise of Health and Productivity Management* (White 500)” (2017－) • Japan Productivity Center “Work-Life Balance Awards” (2016) * Health and Productivity Management is a registered trademark of the Workshop for the Management of Health on Company and Employee. -4Governance Corporate Governance Management Approach Material issues of NRI related to this management approach “Strengthening of corporate governance” and “Dialogue with civil society” NRI's approach to material issues NRI works to enhance corporate governance in accordance with the basic approach outlined below, based on the recognition that corporate governance consists of mechanisms for transparent, fair, timely, and accurate decisionmaking based on the perspective of stakeholders, including society, customers, employees, business partners, and shareholders. 1. Cooperation with stakeholders NRI respects the interests of stakeholders and cooperates with them in an appropriate manner. In particular, with regard to shareholders, NRI takes the proper measures so that rights are substantially secured, in addition to ensuring substantial equality. 2. Information disclosure and communication NRI discloses information as stipulated by laws and by the regulations of the Tokyo Stock Exchange, and information that assists its stakeholders in understanding NRI and its operations properly, in a timely, accurate, and fair manner, to secure transparency as well as to engage in constructive dialogue with its shareholders. 3. Corporate governance system NRI is strengthening its management monitoring functions based on the Audit & Supervisory Board System through the appointment of Independent Directors and Independent Audit & Supervisory Board Members, as well as the establishment of bodies that are mainly composed of Independent Directors appointed to advise the Board of Directors. NRI have made the NRI Corporate Governance Guidelines public to outline our basic approach and action policy regarding corporate governance. Priority activities / Mediumto long-term targets In the domestic market, the NRI Group has grown through establishing a customer base in the financial and retail industries and providing a business platform in the financial field. In the global market, we have grown through the response to Japanese companies' globalization and M & A mainly in Australia. On the other hand, client companies are increasing IT investment related to digital transformation (hereinafter referred to as DX ), and are rapidly progressing from the stage of transforming business processes to the stage of transforming business models themselves In order to realize further growth in the future, the NRI Group needs to enhance its competitive advantage in existing business areas both at home and abroad, establish its position as a trusted partner in the DX area, and enlarge transactions with customers. To that end, it is necessary to secure personnel who will promote the DX business and the global business, and it is important to strengthen recruitment and development. Although the percentage of consolidated overseas sales is about 10%, NRI's foreign ownership ratio is 23.06% and the NRI Group's overseas workforce ratio has risen to 28%. In light of the above, we are promoting the enhancement of corporate governance from the following perspectives. · Global-standard transparency and independence · Sustainability including non-financial factors in environmental and societal aspects · Diversity and universality for NRI's global management Progress / Achievements / Challenges We improved transparency and independence by increasing the number of independent outside directors from two to three in 2015, and began evaluating the effectiveness of the Board of Directors in 2016. In 2017, the company established a Nomination Committee with independent outside directors as the principal members, and also changed the principal members of the Compensation Committee from outside experts to independent outside directors. In terms of sustainability, we established a Sustainability & Responsibility Committee in 2017 to create a system to incorporate a sustainability perspective in management decision making and supervision. As for the diversity and universality of global governance, we are proceeding to share the corporate philosophy of NRI, along with the group's corporate behavior principles and standards of conduct, while at the same time respecting the corporate culture and climate of overseas subsidiaries that have newly joined the NRI Group. Link Files Corporate Governance https://www.nri.com/en/company/governance NRI Corporate Governance Guidelines https://www.nri.com/-/media/Corporate/en/Files/PDF/company/governance/guideline_e_02.pdf NRIʼs Corporate Governance https://ir.nri.com/en/ir/library/report/main/08/teaserItems1/0/linkList/0/link/AR2019_e_all_A4.pdf#page=65 Financial Results for the year ended March 31, 2019 (In Japanese only) https://www.nri.com/-/media/Corporate/jp/Files/PDF/ir/financial/yuuhou/1903yuuhou.pdf -5Governance Corporate Governance Data ▶ Corporate governance policy Policy and objectives concerning the independence of the Board of Directors NRI is strengthening its management monitoring functions based on the Audit & Supervisory Board System through the appointment of Independent Directors and Independent Audit & Supervisory Board Members, as well as the establishment of bodies that are mainly composed of Independent Directors appointed to advise the Board of Directors. The Board of Directors has a well-balanced composition of non-executive directors, executive directors, and Outside Directors, which is intended to facilitate the realization of appropriate decision-making and oversight of the Board of Directors that take into consideration multiple perspectives, including the viewpoints of business execution, supervision, and outside parties. NRI elects three Independent Directors in principle, or no less than two Independent Directors. The independence of the Board of Directors is stipulated in Articles 11, 13, 17, 19, and 23 of the NRI Corporate Governance Guidelines. Reference NRI Corporate Governance Guidelines https://www.nri.com/-/media/Corporate/en/Files/PDF/company/governance/guideline_e_02.pdf ▶ Members of the Board Number of Members of the Board and Audit & Supervisory Board Members End of End of End of End of End of unit (End of June) June 2015 June 2016 June 2017 June 2018 June 2019 Total number of Members of the Board no. of person 10 10 9 7 9 Female directors no. of person 1 1 1 1 1 Non-Japanese directors no. of person 0 0 0 0 0 no. of person 5 3 3 3 3 no. of person 2 4 3 1 3 no. of person 3 3 3 3 3 Total number of Audit & Supervisory Board Members no. of person 5 5 5 5 5 Female members no. of person 0 0 0 0 0 Non-Japanese members no. of person 0 0 0 0 0 Outside Audit & Supervisory Board Members no. of person 3 3 3 3 3 Coverage c c c c c Chairperson of the Board of Directors The Chairperson of the Board of Directors serves as a non-executive director, thereby achieving the separation of business execution and oversight. (Ref. NRI Corporate Governance Guidelines Article 13. Chairperson of the Board of Directors) End of End of End of End of End of Number of Senior Management Directors unit June 2015 June 2016 June 2017 June 2018 June 2019 Senior Management Directors no. of person 37 37 38 40 38 Female no. of person 0 0 0 0 1 Management Directors* no. of person 9 11 12 10 10 Female no. of person 0 1 1 1 1 Coverage c c c c c * Established in April 2015 ▶ Corporate governance structure Corporate governance structure General meeting of shareholders Appointment and Appointment and Appointment and dismissal of directors dismissal of dismissal of corporate auditors accounting auditor report Nomination Advisory Auditor Accounting Committee Board of directors (Director) (Supervisory Board) auditor Compensation Business Non business Auditor's Advisory Committee execution execution Office Officer Outside officer Election accounting audit and supervision audit *Independent officer Internal audit President and CEO department Executive meeting Integrated risk management Risk Management Officer meeting Compliance Officer Business promotion Compliance meeting committee Headquarters Business DX Business Promotion Council organization sector Human Resources Development organization management Departmental Teaching Conference Risk management department Integrated Risk support Department Business Development Conference Management management Department Teaching System Development Conference Establish a responsible support Teaching department for each risk monitoring Information disclosure meeting support Main department management Subsidiary Crisis management meeting -6Governance Corporate Governance Data ▶ Criteria and process for nomination of Members of the Board and Audit & Supervisory Board Members Process for nomination of Members of the Board and Audit & Supervisory Board Members The Board of Directors includes no more than 15 Members of the Board, taking into consideration of the balance and diversity of various factors, including experience in and knowledge of the Companyʼs businesses, corporate management, IT technology, and corporate finances. This composition promotes the realization of supervision and appropriate decision-making from multiple perspectives by the Board of Directors. To ensure the independence of the Audit & Supervisory Board, at least half of the Board members are composed of Outside Audit & Supervisory Board Members. NRI elects at least two Independent Audit & Supervisory Board Members. And at least one of the appointed Audit & Supervisory Board Members must have considerable knowledge of finance and accounting Criteria for nomination of Members of the Board and Audit & Supervisory Board Members Candidates for Members of the Board must have extensive practical experience, high capabilities, understanding, and the ability to contribute to the enhancement of corporate value over the midto long-term in a manner consistent with the NRIʼs corporate philosophy. Candidates for Audit & Supervisory Board members must have extensive practical experience, high capabilities, understanding, and can be expected to perform audits from a neutral and objective viewpoint and contribute to the maintenance of the soundness of management ▶ Functions and committees The highest governing body Board of Directors Overview NRI has delegated to considerable authority and responsibility for business execution to Senior Managing Directors and other Directors. The Board of Directors is exclusively responsible for fundamental decision-making that are the basis for the Companyʼs business execution and for overseeing the execution of duties by Members of the Board. The Audit & Supervisory Board Members and Audit & Supervisory Board oversee the execution of duties by Members of the Board. (Ref. NRI Corporate Governance Guidelines Article 11, System of Board of Directors and Others) Function for compensation Compensation Committee Overview Mainly comprised of Independent Directors, the Committee deliberates on the system and standards of executive compensation from the standpoint of fairness and transparency. (Ref. NRI Corporate Governance Guidelines Article22, Compensation Committee) Function for nomination Nomination Committee Overview Mainly comprised of Independent Directors, the Committee deliberates on the appointment of Directors and Audit & Supervisory Board Members from the standpoint of fairness and transparency. Function for audit Audit & Supervisory Board Overview The Audit & Supervisory Board oversee the execution of duties by Members of the Board. And discusses and decides auditing policies and other important matters related to auditing and formulate and expresses audit opinions. (Ref. NRI Corporate Governance Guidelines Article 11, System of Board of Directors and Others) Function for strategy Senior Management Committee Overview The Committee meets in principle once every week to deliberate on important issues involving corporate management in order to achieve consistent business execution and decision making. Function for risk management Integrated Risk Management Committee Overview The Committee deliberates on important issues concerning risk management based on instructions given by the President & CEO. Function for compliance Compliance Committee Overview The Committee deliberates on the issues concerning the promotion of ethical and compliance management covering the improvement of structures to comply with corporate ethics and laws and the prevention of violation reoccurrences, Function for sustainability Social Value Creation Committee / Sustainability Activities Committee Overview NRI established the Social Value Creation Committee that promotes social value creation based on corporate philosophy and the Sustainability Activities Committee that promotes activities for stable business foundations from the point of view of ESG, as a special appointment at the direction of the President & CEO to promote overall sustainability management. Function for human resources Human Resources Development Committee Overview The Committee deliberates on important issues concerning ability development and training of employees, based on instructions given by the President & CEO. -7Governance Corporate Governance Data Function for business development Business Development Committee Overview The Committee deliberates on important issues concerning investments in research and development, planned businesses and investments, such as the acquisition of securities, based on instructions given by the President & CEO. Function for systems development Systems Development Committee Overview The Committee deliberates on important issues concerning proposals and quotations to clients, as well as on their development and release of IT solution-related systems, based on instructions given by the President & CEO. Function for disclosure Disclosure Committee Overview The Committee deliberates on important issues concerning the disclosure of Annual Securities Report and other documents, based on instructions given by the President & CEO. Function for crisis management Crisis Management Committee Overview The Committee will be established based on the orders of the President & CEO to execute and support prompt responses to a crisis whenever one may occur. Function for promotion of internal control Business Promotion Committee Overview The Committee involves administrative departments from the headquarters and management departments within business divisions and seeks to establish highly effective and efficient internal controls. ▶ Effectiveness of the Board of Directors Status of the Board of Directors unit FY2018* Number of meetings of the Board of Directors 14 Attendance rate of Board of Directors % 98 Term of office of directors years 1 Average tenure of directors years 4.1 * Duration from the 53rd Ordinary General Meeting of Shareholders, June 22, 2018, to 54th Ordinary General Meeting of Shareholders, 20nd June 2019. Evaluations of the Board of Directorsʼ effectiveness 1. Evaluation methods: • Questionnaire targeting all Directors and Audit & Supervisory Board Members • Opinion exchange at the Independent Directors Meeting • Discussion at the board of directors meeting based on the results of the above questionnaire and opinion exchange 2. Results From the following points, it is evaluated that the effectiveness of the Board of Directors is generally secured. • It consists of members based on diverse experiences including three independent outside directors, and has a system in place to secure appropriate decision-making and supervision. • There are free and constructive discussions and exchange of opinions. • These directors fulfill their duties as directors by understanding the Company's business philosophy and business plans and actively discussing based on their knowledge. 3. Challenges for further effectiveness • Work on provision of information to directors and management of meetings to enable higher quality discussion and decision-making. ▶ Executive compensation Executive compensation amounts Performance-linked compensation No. of eligible Total Basic Restricted individuals unit Stock (person) compensation compensation Bonus stock-based Other options remuneration Members of the Board millions 6 415 200 112 60 39 2 (Excluding Outside Members of the Board) of yen Audit & Supervisory Board Members millions 2 82 58 22 0 1 (Excluding Outside Audit & Supervisory Board Members) of yen Outside Members of the Board and Outside millions 8 105 93 11 0 Audit & Supervisory Board Members of yen Notes: 1. The above includes Includes two directors and two outside officers who retired at the end of the 52nd Ordinary General Meeting of Shareholders held on 22rd June 2018. 2. “Other” refers to contributions to the defined contribution pension plan and insurance premiums for casualty insurance. 3. The stock options for Audit & Supervisory Board Members are granted before they assume their post. 4. “Share-limited stock compensation” equalizes the total amount of monetary compensation receivables to be invested in kind in exchange for the stock with restricted transfer based on the service period from the date of allocation of the stock with restricted transfer until the date of release of the transfer restriction. And the amount recorded in ﬁscal 2018 is stated. Compensation amounts for each executive Performance-linked compensation Official Total Basic Restricted unit Stock Name position compensation compensation Bonus stock-based Other options remuneration President millions Shingo Konomoto 115 53 34 15 11 0 & CEO of yen -8Governance Corporate Governance Data Compensation policy and system for Members of the Board The maximum compensation total for Members of the Board: ¥1,000 million per annum (Although, this shall not include employee salaries of Members of the Board who concurrently serve as employees). Based on the Plan, the remuneration provided for granting restricted stock to Eligible Members of the Board shall take the form of monetary remuneration claims, Stock-based remuneration as long-term incentives: within the limit of 120 million yen per annum, stock-based remuneration as medium-term incentives: within the limit of 280 million yen per annum, and total of not more than 400 million yen per annum. To improve transparency of directorsʼ compensation and others, NRI has established the Compensation Committee, comprised mainly of Independent Directors, as an advisory body to the Board of Directors. The committee deliberates on the system and standards of executive compensation from the standpoint of fairness and transparency. Using the results of the committeeʼs inquiries, the Board of Directors sets policies for the determination of compensation for Members of the Board and other matters. The compensation system for Members of the Board is based on executive position, but in the interest of enhancing business results, the system emphasizes connections to business performance. The standards employed by the system have been set with reference to market standards and trends and other factors, with the goal of establishing standards appropriate for a leading company in the information services industry. Remuneration for the Members of the Board of NRI is comprised of the following three categories. a. Basic remuneration Basic compensation consists of fixed pay (basic pay and position pay), which is compensation based on each Member of the Boardʼs post. b. Bonuses Bonuses are based on our business performance during the current fiscal year, while taking into consideration individual evaluations. c. Stock-based Remuneration (restricted stock-based remuneration) Provision of restricted stock compensation (financial compensation used as investment assets for the acquisition of shares with restriction on transfer compensation) as share-based compensation in order to provide incentives aimed at sustainable improvements in the Companyʼs corporate value and to promote the sharing of value with shareholders through share ownership. Restricted stock-based remuneration is comprised of Stock-based remuneration as long-term incentives and Stockbased remuneration as medium-term incentives. Stock-based remuneration as long-term incentives is long-term incentive aimed at promotion of the sharing of value with shareholders through share ownership and sustainable improvements in the Companyʼs corporate value. Stock-based remuneration as medium-term incentives is Mediumterm incentive aimed at improvements in the Companyʼs medium term results and share price as represented in the Medium-Term Management Plan. The number of shares allocated is determined in accordance with executive positions. Note that, based on the Stock Ownership Guidelines for Executive Officers, Members of the Board are expected to hold more than a certain number of shares of NRIʼs stock, in accordance with their respective positions. Outside Members of the Board do not receive bonus or share-based compensation. Risk assessment measures unit FY2014 FY2015 FY2016 FY2017 FY2018 millions less than less than Compensation of the President & CEO 104 113 115 of yen 100 100 thousands Average employee salary of NRI 10,892 11,560 11,514 11,660 12,217 of yen Ratio of compensation ratio n/a n/a 9.0 9.7 9.4 ▶ Executive stock ownership requirements Guidelines of Executive stock ownership Based on the Stock Ownership Guidelines for Executive Officers, Members of the Board are expected to hold more than a certain number of shares of NRIʼs stock, in accordance with their respective positions. -9Governance Risk Management Management Approach Material issues of NRI related to this management approach It is related to all materiality of 15, but in particular Risk / crisis management NRI's approach to material issues The NRI Group defines the possibility of detriment to the Groupʼs capital due to an unforeseen circumstance that occurs in business operations, or something that prevents the preservation or improvement of enterprise value due to a phenomenon that hinders business operations as business operational risk. These risks conform to the ERM framework (COSO Enterprise Risk Management-Integrated Framework) developed by the USAʼs COSO (The Committee of Sponsoring Organizations of the Treadway Commission), divided into the 11 categories of management strategy risk, business continuity risk, compliance risk, information security risk, systems impairment risk, project management risk, external outsourcing / procurement risk, subsidiaries / affiliate company risk, business resource risk, information disclosure risk, and reputational risk, and are subject to integrated management. In recent years, we recognize that the response to risks of social issues such as climate change or human rights will have a major impact on the sustainable growth of the company over the medium to long term. The NRI Group will also respond to these ESG risks within the integrated risk management framework. The NRI Group has appointed a Risk Management Director and established a Risk Management Supervisory Bureau in order to establish an internal controls system and aim for continual improvement. Furthermore, at the direction of the President & CEO, the Integrated Risk Management Committee has been established and conducts appropriate inspections of the status of the entire companyʼs internal controls. The Integrated Risk Management Committee reports several times a year to the Board of Directors. Supervisory bureaus have been established for each of the main risks that accompany business activities, and when necessary, deliberations take place at specialist meetings, with the supervisory bureaus taking measures for appropriate responses in collaboration with business departments. Priority activities / Mediumto long-term targets NRI annually inspects and assesses risk for the entire company, based on results from a company-wide monitoring of compliance with regulations as well as from internal audits, after which management sets priority themes to be tackled. We strive to reinforce our business continuity plan (BCP) and disaster recovery (DR) measures by regularly monitoring risk countermeasures required for business continuity, targeting significant business and service lines. [Priority themes for FY March 2019] (1) Continue proper management quality risks (2) Further strengthen the management of project risks (3) Improve the management preparedness of information security (4) Develop governance systems suitable to increasing globalization (5) Create comfortable working environment (6) Implement appropriate preparation for fulfilling our business continuity responsibilities Progress / Achievements / Challenges The results for the fiscal year ending March 31, 2019 are as follows for each major theme item for the fiscal year ending March 31, 2019 for the Integrated Risk Management Committee (1) Continue proper management quality risks Prepared large-scale system failure response guidelines and conducted failure response drill, in preparation for critical system failure. (2) Further strengthen the management of project risks. Continue the strengthening of checks at Proposal Estimation Review Committee in preparation in the event of unexpected unprofitable projects. (3) Improve the management preparedness of information security Upgrading of CSIRT as response against cyber-attacks in the event of critical security failure occurrence. (4) Develop governance systems suitable to increasing globalization Study governance methods for acquired subsidiaries and management risk response policies for each country. (5) Create comfortable working environment Monitoring of labor conditions based on Labor Management Standard. Conducted response to the Act for Promotion of Work-style Reform. (6) Implement appropriate preparations for fulfilling our business continuity responsibilities Conducted disaster drill assuming an earthquake. Link Files Basic policy for building an internal control system (In Japanese only) https://www.nri.com/jp/company/internal Internal Controls, Corporate Ethics and Compliance https://www.nri.com/-/media/Corporate/en/Files/PDF/ir/library/AR2018e.pdf#page=70 10 Governance Risk Management Data ▶ Risk management system Risk management system NRI has established a basic policy for building an internal control system, while appointing a director in charge of risk management and setting up a department for supervising risk management. Furthermore, the Integrated Risk Management Committee has been established and conducts appropriate inspections of the status of the entire companyʼs internal controls. The Integrated Risk Management Committee reports several times a year to the Board of Directors. Supervisory bureaus have been established for each of the main risks that accompany business activities, and when necessary, deliberations take place at specialist meetings, with the supervisory bureaus taking measures for appropriate responses in collaboration with business departments. The Internal Audit Department (21 employees), which functions directly under the President & CEO, audits the Company to ensure the effectiveness of risk management and compliance systems and to maintain the efficiency of the execution of the Members of the Board. The results of such audits are reported to the President & CEO and other directors, and when corrections or improvements are required, the Risk Management Supervisory Department, the representative departments and the business divisions, collaborate to introduce improvements. In addition, the Internal Audit Department works to cooperate with the accounting auditor through regular exchange of opinions regarding plans for conducting internal audits and their results. [Corporate governance structure] General meeting of shareholders Appointment and Appointment and Appointment and dismissal of directors dismissal of dismissal of corporate auditors accounting auditor report Nomination Advisory Auditor Accounting Committee Board of directors (Director) (Supervisory Board) auditor Compensation Business Non business Auditor's Advisory Committee execution execution Office Officer Outside officer Election accounting audit and supervision audit *Independent officer Internal audit President and CEO department Executive meeting Integrated risk management Risk Management Officer meeting Compliance Officer Business promotion Compliance meeting committee Headquarters Business DX Business Promotion Council organization sector Human Resources Development organization management Departmental Teaching Conference Risk management department Integrated Risk support Department Business Development Conference Management management Department Teaching System Development Conference Establish a responsible support Teaching department for each risk monitoring Information disclosure meeting support management Main department Subsidiary Crisis management meeting Officer in charge Yasuo Fukami Representative Director, Member of the Board, Senior Executive Managing Director in charge of Supervising of Corporate Administration* * Including risk management and compliance. Responsible committee Integrated Risk Management Committee Independence of risk management function and involvement of the Board of Directors In order to achieve overall optimization of risk management, a resolution of the board of directors established rules for risk management for the entire NRI Group, and has appointed a director in charge of risk management and setting up a department for supervising risk management. In addition, an Integrated Risk Management Committee has been established in order to deliberate on important matters related to risk management in the NRI Group based on the instructions of the President & CEO. 11 Governance Risk Management Data ▶ Risk assessment Risk assessment measures The NRI Group has established, based on the instructions of the President & CEO, an Integrated Risk Management Committee in order to deliberate on important matters related to risk management. The Integrated Risk Management Committee monitors the major risks at the NRI Group, and after a comprehensive analysis, classifies them as either medium / long-term risks or short-term risks, which it then manages by comprehensively taking into account the importance of each risk and setting priority themes every year. The risk assessments and monitoring details are reported to the board of directors several times a year. Risk items subject to risk management Strategy risk Business continuity risk Compliance risk Information security risk Systems impairment risk Project management risk External outsourcing / procurement risk Subsidiaries / affiliate company risk Business resource risk Information disclosure risk Reputational risk Link Files Internal Controls, Corporate Ethics and Compliance https://www.nri.com/-/media/Corporate/en/Files/PDF/ir/library/AR2018e.pdf#page=70 Business and Other Risks https://www.nri.com/en/company/risk ▶ Long-term risk Long-term risk 1 M&A associated risk: ESG risks of a company that NRI acquires. Business impacts Moving ahead with global business is stated as one of the goals in the Medium-term Management Plan of NRI, indicating that M&A in overseas business will become active more than ever. Review of business risks and financial risks will be duly conducted prior to the acquisition, however if any long-term potential ESG risks that cannot be recognized at the time of acquisition emerge, that would cause reputation damage and negative impact to the business continuity of NRI. Mitigating actions Prior to actual M&A, ESG risk related due diligence is conducted including environmental and human rights risk, in addition to due diligence for financial risks and legal risks. Also, after acquisitions, in order to enhance corporate governance, we provide the principle-base education including dissemination of the NRI Group business philosophy to the managements and employees of the acquired company. Long-term risk 2 The climate change risks associated with CO2 emission by electricity use of the Data Centers Business impacts NRI has five data centers and electricity use at the data centers accounts for 72% of the greenhouse gas emissions of the entire NRI Group. Along with rapidly proceeding international consensus of the climate change, there is a risk of increase in operation costs of the data centers due to introduction of new regulations or tax systems. Mitigating actions Focus on efforts to reduce environmental load by achieving ISO 14001 certification for all data centers, establishing a goal to reduce greenhouse gas emissions by FY2030 by 55% compared to FY2013, and reducing electricity consumption and greenhouse gas emissions by increasing the environmental performance of our data centers. Furthermore, to prepare for a case in which working to reduce our environmental load is not enough to clear strengthened environmental regulations, we have also begun utilizing carbon emissions trading. ▶ Response to risk Integrated risk management structure NRI divides risk into three categories: 1) Company-wide risks; 2) Business activity risks; and 3) Disaster or accidentrelated risks. We have developed a risk management structure for each type of risk, working closely together as an organization to conduct integrated risk management. Periodically we perform assessments of this risk management structure, making improvements when necessary. We have instituted business continuity and disaster recovery plans especially for those businesses and services which may have a significant impact on society. Response plans for large-scale disasters, accidents and incidents, and epidemics In the event of a disaster or accident, we will confirm that Group employees are alive and safe, protect our clientsʼ important information systems and information assets, and endeavor to keep our operations functioning. In order to prepare for a major natural disaster, an epidemic, or an adverse incident involving the NRI Group, the Risk Management Supervisory Department and the representative departments for the relevant risk will work together to respond as necessary. Their work also includes examining preventive action plans. A Contingency Plan in a Handbook has been distributed to all employees of the NRI Group, for a detailed understanding of the action guidelines in case of a disaster or any other emergency. We have also developed an “emergency safety confirm system” that confirms the safety and ability to come in to work in the event of a disaster by e-mail and phone. Training is conducted each year to ensure that this confirmation process is carried out rapidly. From the perspective of safety management, this system was expanded to cover temporary employees where they have five their approval. 12 Governance Risk Management Data Crisis management NRI has prepared a Contingency Plan containing its advance preparations in anticipation of potential emergency situation and its master systems and processes for response. In the case of a large-scale system failure or information security breakdown, an emergency command center will be set up swiftly to coordinate with the relevant divisions and clients and to take action including failure recovery, cause investigation, informing relevant parties, and examining how to prevent a recurrence, based on the circumstances of the particular failure. ▶ Emerging risks Emerging Risks-1 Human rights risks in system development using artificial intelligence(AI) Content of risk In the future, NRI will increase contract development of system using AI. Our clients include financial institutions or retail companies, and it is expected that AI will be used for credit scoring, targeting advertising, and direct marketing by profiling. There will be concerns about the negative impacts on personal information protection or right to privacy, and the occurrence of discrimination or social exclusion by using AI. Business impact Advances in AI technology will increase the demand for building business strategic systems which will possibly increase our sales. On the other hand,these advances in AI technology and related strategic systems demand will cause social issues related personal information protection, right to privacy, discrimination, social exclusion, etc. which may damage our reputation and reduce our sales. Measures It is necessary to establish processes and systems that enable the development of reliable, high quality AI systems. Therefore, we aim to establish following; 1) reliability by ensuring fairness, accountability, transparency, and, 2) development of high quality AI technologies with privacy protection, security, dependability, and establishment of its operation standards and system. Currently, we set out to develop AI ethics guidelines, referring to international principles such as The OECD AI Principles and Ethics guidelines for trustworthy AI. After the AI Ethics Guidelines are developed, we will start to establish check processes and check systems for system development and operation. Emerging Risks-2 Cyber terrorism risk by IoT Content of risk There is an increasing number of connected cars that connect to networks and provide various useful functions. Efforts are currently underway to bring Aautomated driving systems that cruise safely on the basis of advanced network systems into practical application toward 2020. Furthermore,cars are evolving into more comfortable transportation with the evolution of Information and Communication Technology. On the other hand, there is a risk of being exposed to cyber attacks that could not be considered with conventional vehicles. In addition, not only cars but also home appliances etc. are connected to the network, and the risk of cyber attacks is increasing. Business impact In system development, more advanced measures for security are required than before. While IoT connects many devices to networks and creates a more convenient society, the risk of cyber terrorism is increasing. NRI, as a system development and management company, will have more serious human life-related responsibilities than before, and with regard to security measures, we are required to respond with a complete system of security measures based on the latest trends. If our client company falls victim to cyber terrorism, it will be an irreparable reputational damage for us as a system development company. Measures NRI promotes security measures across the group. NRI SecureTechnologies, Ltd., a security company within the NRI Group, launched a Automotive Penetration Test service for automobile manufacturers in May 2017. [Related article] https://www.nri.com/en/journal/sustainability/2017/12 In addition, NRI Secure Technologies, Ltd. also provides security monitoring services in Japan, a service few companies provide. NRI SecureTechnologies, Ltd. also has a branch office in California which excels in cyber technology, and has a system in place to understand the status and information of advanced security technologies. NRI Secure Technologies, Ltd. has in-house white hackers (hackers of justice) including winners of the global hacking tournament, etc., and they aim to reduce security risks in the system development in the group by utliziing their high level of expertise. Protecting Our Motorized Society from Cyber-attacks https://www.nri.com/en/journal/sustainability/2017/12 13 Governance Risk Management Data ▶ Risk culture Training and awareness on risk management We conduct training for each hierarchy level, educate all employees via e-learning, and raise awareness through compliance-awareness surveys. Evaluation and financial incentives An oversight department is established for each of the risks associated with business activities, and the results of risk management are directly reflected in the performance evaluations of the heads of the oversight departments. Other risks*1 may be reflected in the evaluation for the head of a department, depending on whether they are responsible for the risk. Furthermore, in regard to human rights and labor risks*2 for employees supervised by those in management positions, the same is directly reflected in performance evaluations as the results of managerial risk management. *1 Compliance risks, human rights and labor risks related to employees, etc. *2 Health and safety, extended work periods, discrimination and harassment, etc. Finding and reporting of potential risk by employees When an employee of a NRI group found all risk including an incident on the law breaking and the information securities, it's required to report it to a risk supervision department based on a usual report line and also it's required that a risk supervision section concerned will report it to a risk management charge official. We have established an external-service hotline (attorney's office) for the purpose of discovering and correcting any risks, including illegal activities. Feedback process on potential risk Ability to respond to risk is raised by a business promotion committee's by holding in twice for each of every quarter of the year developing a risk case promptly for all fields also sharing information during a section. 14 Governance Compliance Management Approach Material issues of NRI related to this management approach It is the basis of all materiality of 15, but in particular Prevention of overseas corruption NRI's approach to material issues With the expansion of the global economy, societal demands for companies to engage in fair and transparent business activities are becoming more and more relentless. In particular, laws and regulations are being strengthened worldwide for issues that transcend borders and have a large social impact, such as anti-corruption, unfair competition, and tax compliance. The NRI Group aims to expand its global-related business in its Vision2022 medium-term management plan, and will strengthen its global compliance system, prioritizing thorough compliance with laws and regulations above all else. Furthermore, we recognize that it is the premise of sustainable business activities to not only comply with laws and regulations, but also act in accordance with international social norms. Priority activities / Mediumto long-term targets NRI respects and practices the spirit of the Charter of Corporate Behavior as a member of the Keidanren (Japan Business Federation). The NRI Group has established the NRI Groupʼs Code of Business Principles and the NRI Group Employeesʼ Code of Business Conduct as standards for all directors and employees to comply with. Furthermore, in 2016, we established the NRI Group Anti-Bribery Policy and NRI Group Competition Law Compliance Policy to strengthen global compliance. 15 Governance Compliance Data ▶ Compliance policy Compliance policy The NRI Group is sincere in its observation of ethics and laws and regulations, and strives to ensure thorough compliance. The NRI Group Employeesʼ Code of Business Conduct, which was established to realize the Corporate Philosophy and the NRI Groupʼs Code of Business Principles, establish that employees shall not have any relationship whatsoever with antisocial forces, such as violent organizations, nor with any individual or groups engaging in criminal activity. Furthermore, by establishing a mechanism for the proper processing of reports concerning organizational or personal violation of laws and regulations from persons engaged in the NRI Group's business (including not only company employees, but also employees of partner companies), we will aim for prompt detection and rectification of such misconduct, thereby strengthening compliance management. In addition, we have also formulated a policy on the prohibition of bribery and compliance with antitrust laws. Applicable scope All directors, officers and employees of NRI Group References Corporate Philosophy https://www.nri.com/en/company/c_philosophy NRI Group's Code of Business Principles https://www.nri.com/en/company/company_code NRI Group Employees' Code of Business Conduct https://www.nri.com/en/company/business_code NRI Group approach to compliance https://www.nri.com/en/sustainability/social/policies ▶ Compliance system Compliance system To secure effectiveness of management in observation of ethics and compliance, in addition to the Chief Ethics Officer and a Director in charge of Compliance being assigned and a Compliance Committee being established and operated, its settlement and improvement in its effectiveness has been targeted by continuously conducting training and enlightenment activities. In addition, a basic policy has been established for anti-social forces, not to have any relations, including business transactions, with them, with the representative department undertaking information gathering as well as management and response to prevent any transactions. [Compliance system] ・Corporate philosophy ・Corporate conduct President and CEO principle (Chief Ethics Officer) ・Business conduct standard report Compliance ・Important rules Hotline Compliance Officer (Internal and external insider Integrated risk reporting system) management meeting Compliance meeting Headquarters organization Disciplinary Review Board Compliance Committee Integrated risk management department Division report ・Comprehensive risk assessment manager/ ・Total aggregation of important rule General monitoring results manager Office Risk management department ・Risk manifestation monitoring ・Risk reduction measures Temporary ・Critical rule monitoring Employee staff Officer in charge Chief Ethics Officer : Shingo Konomoto President & CEO Director in charge of Compliance : Yoshio Usumi Representative Director, Member of the Board, Senior Executive Managing Director in charge of Supervising of Corporate Administration Responsible committee Compliance Committee Compliance hotlines We have set up a number of reporting desks, including an external reporting desk (attorney's office), to provide for anonymous reporting and consultation relating to violations of laws and regulations. In addition, protections for whistleblowers are in place, including the prohibition of disadvantageous treatment such as dismissal or termination of contract based on said whistleblowing. Measures are taken in the event of such reports, including those for prompt handling after investigating the facts, and also those preventing any recurrence of the situation. Third-party audit of compliance system As part of the creation of an internal control audit report, the compliance system is audited annually by an auditing firm. 16 Governance Compliance Data ▶ Compliance situation System of thorough compliance Every year, management set important risks that should be prioritized the following year as major themes based on the results of company-wide monitoring of compliance with regulations and the results of internal audits, and the NRI Group is focusing on compliance with the rules. The major themes are reflected in a booklet that is distributed to all employees of the NRI Group entitled The NRI Group Rule Book: Fundamental Rules for Executive Officers and General Staff , which explains the nature of the rules and their legal basis, as well as providing examples. The state of compliance with respect to the rules included in the booklet is regularly monitored, and if any issues are found, the head office organization and business divisions work together to make improvements. Compliance awareness surveys for all NRI Group employees are conducted in principle every other year. In addition to training for each hierarchy level and executive training, confirmation testing relating to the “The NRI Group Rule Book: Fundamental Rules for Executive Officers and General Staff” is also carried out (in an e-learning format). unit FY2014 FY2015 FY2016 FY2017 FY2018 Completion Rate for Compliance Confirmation Testing % 98.9 (held every other year)* Coverage a0 Collection Rate for Compliance Awareness Surveys % 87.3 81.5 (conducted every other year) Coverage a a 0 Numbers of Internal Reports/Consultations 6 3 8 2 4 Coverage bbbbb* Compliance confirmation testing was not conducted in FY2017. In FY2018, we plan to implement compliance training for NRI Group employees, including thorough dissemination of The NRI Group Rule Book: Important Rules to be Observed by Executives and Employees. Breaches of laws and regulations In FY 2018, there were no compliance breaches that had a significant impact on the management of the NRI Group. ▶ Anti-corruption Anti-bribery policy In order to pursue business fairly and in compliance with the laws and social norms, NRI Group will comply with the Japanese Unfair Competition Prevention Law, the US Foreign Corrupt Practices Act, the UK Bribery Act 2010, the Chinese Criminal laws on anti-bribery, and other applicable anti-bribery laws and regulations (hereinafter collectively called anti-bribery laws and regulations ). By preventing any acts of bribery and any acts that may be considered as bribery, NRI Group will maintain its reputation as a company that is trusted by the customers and the society. NRI Group has established the following code of conduct “NRI Group Anti-Bribery Policy”, applicable to all directors, officers and employees of NRI Group. NRI Group requires its agents and partners to comply with such standards. Applicable scope All directors, officers and employees of NRI Group, and business partners. Reference NRI Group Anti-Bribery Policy https://www.nri.com/en/sustainability/social/policies#anticorruption Breaches of anti-corruption Nothing applicable. ▶ Political contribution Political contribution policy In the NRI Group Employees' Code of Business Conduct stated that “Employees shall not give political contributions and election campaign support to politicians, candidates and political body directly through their corporate activities”. Applicable scope All directors, officers and employees of NRI Group Reference NRI Group Employees' Code of Business Conduct https://www.nri.com/en/company/business_code Political contribution amount NRI group does not make political contributions. 17 Governance Compliance Data ▶ Fair competition Fair competition policy In order to pursue fair competition, NRI Group will comply with the Japanese Anti-Monopoly Law, the Subcontract Proceeds Law and other Japanese Laws, the US Antitrust Law, the EU Competition Law, the Chinese Anti-Monopoly Law and other applicable competition laws and regulations. NRI Group has established the following code of conduct “NRI Group Competition Law Compliance Policy”, applicable to all directors, officers and employees of NRI Group. NRI Group requires its agents and partners to comply with such standards. Applicable scope All directors, officers and employees of NRI Group Reference NRI Group Competition Law Compliance Policy https://www.nri.com/en/sustainability/social/policies#antitrust Breaches of fair competition Nothing applicable. ▶ Tax risk and compliance Tax policy The NRI Group's policy on taxation has been defined in the NRI Group Global Tax Policy, and stipulates the basic policy, legal compliance, tax governance, tax risk management, tax planning, and relationships with tax authorities. The NRI Group's executives and employees comply with laws, social norms and internal regulations, and strive to achieve sustainable growth and increase corporate value. This policy is also the basis for initiatives aimed at improving governance with respect to taxation. By fulfilling its tax obligations, the NRI Group contributes to the development of the local community, acting as a sincere company with sound judgement. Applicable scope NRI Group Reference NRI Group Global Tax Policy https://www.nri.com/en/sustainability/social/policies#tax-payment 18 Governance Supply Chain Management Management Approach Material issues of NRI related to this management approach “Dialogue with civil society” and “Show consideration for environments in our supply chain” NRI's approach to material issues The NRI Group believes that its business is built on collaboration with its business partners such as its external contractors and suppliers. For that reason, the NRI Groupʼs basic policy is to build business relationships that comply with both the law and sound business practices, to the benefit of both parties. In order to maintain the services that it delivers that act as foundations for the society, it is essential that the NRI Group continues to have good relationships with its business partners, and to grow together as partners. To that end the NRI Group: • Shares its management policies with its business partners. • Provides information and opportunities for its business partners to grow together with the NRI Group. • Provides rules and procedures to maintain a sound operating environment with its business partners, which it also monitors periodically. Furthermore, in conducting business both in Japan and overseas, there are now strong demands for engagement with respect to a responsible supply chain, and in addition to responsibility with respect to legal-compliance, productquality and information-security aspects, there is a need to work together with our business partners to also tackle ESG issues such as environmental protection, proper labor practices, and respect for human rights, etc. Accordingly, Respecting ESG has been clearly stated in the NRI Group Procurement Policy, and we have shared our policy of observing laws, regulations and social norms while simultaneously engaging in procurement activities that are considerate of the environment and human rights, etc., and working together with our business partners in contributing to the creation of a sustainable society. Priority activities / Mediumto long-term targets As an environmental initiative, we are currently making progress with setting environmental targets in supply chains. For our business partners that account for 70% of Category 1 (Purchased Products/Services), Category 2 (Capital Goods), and Category 11 (Sold Products and Services) in Scope 3, which has a large impact on greenhouse gas emissions, we are also working to have them set targets for greenhouse gas emissions. As a human rights initiative, we are considering a commitment from business partners ensuring compliance with our human rights policy by FY 2022, and are currently making progress in dialogues with key business partners. Progress / Achievements / Challenges NRI conducts CSR Study Meetings with business partners every year to prepare for the ESG activities that will be demanded of the entire supply chain in the future. At the meetings we share information and exchange opinions on ESG trends in domestic and foreign companies, as well as on the status of ESG activities of participating companies, including NRI. Above all, much time is devoted to human rights. In FY 2018, 17 business partners participated. In FY 2019, we plan to encourage active participation in CSR study sessions in order to continue dialogue and awareness-raising with business partners in order to achieve our supply chain goals. 19 Governance Supply Chain Management Data ▶ Supply chain management policy Policy to apply to suppliers The NRI Group has, through its NRI Group Procurement Policy, made stipulations concerning partnership creation and fair selection with respect to business partners such as outside contractors and suppliers. Furthermore, in order to seek activities that give consideration to ESG (Environmental, Social, and Governance) factors from business partners, we have provided an item called Respecting ESG in our procurement policy. Applicable scope Directors, officers and employees of NRI Group, and business partners such as outside contractors and suppliers. Reference NRI Group Procurement Policy https://www.nri.com/en/company/partner ▶ Supply chain situation Supplier overview The below are the NRI Group's two main kinds of business partners: (1) Partner companies (outside contractors) (2) Vendors (hardware suppliers) Speaking from the perspective of systems integration, the NRI Group accepts a not insignificant amount of orders from clients (customer corporations) seeking the construction and operation of information systems. In such cases, the NRI Group takes charge of the upstream processes such as design, while the downstream processes are subcontracted to partner companies. There is no difference between the NRI Group and its partner companies, in the sense that they form a group of systems engineers. unit FY2014 FY2015 FY2016 FY2017 FY2018 Number of Chinese partner companies* 21 21 18 18 18 Approximate number of partner employee (Japan) no. of person 9,000 7,500 7,000 7,000 7,000 Approximate number of partner employee (China) no. of person 4,500 4,000 3,500 3,500 4,000 Coverage c c c c c * In October 2015, NRI inherited an NRI-oriented offshore development project from SinoCom Software Group Ltd., an offshore partner in China that was also an e-partner of NRI. Partially as a consequence of this, there has been a decline in the number of China offshore partner companies and partner personnel (approximate figures, China) in FY2016. Procurement amount FY2014 FY2015 FY2016 FY2017 FY2018 millions Total outsourcing expenses 141,925 139,303 126,361 135,522 150,635 of yen millions Breakdown by country / region China 23,482 23,476 18,815 19,532 23,213 of yen Coverage a a a a a Critical supplier We also sign “e-partnership” agreements with companies that possess particularly sophisticated operational knowhow and IT capabilities. We work closely with these businesses on project management to ensure thoroughness in their information security management and to improve their levels of quality management, as well as to provide assistance with their human resources development. As of March 31, 2019, we had 8 such e-partners in Japan and 5 in China. In fiscal 2008, we set up a system for certifying “extended e-partners” (“e-e partners”) in recognition of their ability to undertake enhancement service reforms for their company as a whole and not just for specific projects with us. As of March 31, 2019, we have 3 e-e partners in Japan. FY2014 FY2015 FY2016 FY2017 FY2018 Number of e-partners 9 8 8 13 13 Japan 7 7 7 8 8 China 2 1 1 5 5 Number of e-e partners 3 3 3 3 3 Japan 3 3 3 3 3 Coverage c c c c c Promoting offshoring* Our offshore partner companies now account for around 40% of the total number of operations we outsource for developing systems. The NRI Group is proceeding to diversify its outsourcing destinations. It is moving to press forward with its offshoring in China not just in its larger cities such as Beijing and Shanghai but also in regional bases in China, in collaboration with its Chinese partner companies. The number of Chinese partner companies in our IT solutions business stands at 18 companies in 19 regions as of March 31, 2019. * Offshoring: Outsourcing software development and systems development to companies and subsidiaries overseas. 20 Governance Supply Chain Management Data ▶ Supply chain risk assessment Supply chain risk assessment measures Before consigning the development of any NRI system to a potential partner, we conduct a comprehensive assessment of the company, investigating among other matters its technological capabilities; the quality, delivery timeframes and cost of its products and/or services; its human resources and its organizational structure; its financial position; and its measures on compliance and information security management. With a potential overseas partner in addition we conduct such investigations as are required by law, for example under the Foreign Exchange and Foreign Trade Act. Regarding information security, to ensure that our partner companies provide the same level of security as we do, the NRI Group requires them to sign confidentiality agreements and memoranda on the handling of personal information. In addition, NRI requests that they comply with its Security Guidelines, and also conducts regular checks on these companies by performing assessments of all aspects of their management of security and privacy. We have also provided hands-on training in dealing with phishing emails for those of their employees who are engaged full-time on security issues. Supply chain risk assessment results After evaluating risk in the supply chain, the NRI Group believes that there are the following two risks with respect to partner companies: 1. Good business relationships with subcontractors In the fiscal year ended 31st March, 2019, our subcontractors were responsible for 40% of NRI's actual production. It is essential to secure top-level subcontractors and maintain a good business relationship with them in order to carry out NRI's operation. At NRI, we strive to secure superior subcontracting partners by performing corporate screening regularly and searching for new collaborating partners both domestically and overseas. Furthermore, we are conducting activities to raise productivity and quality, including activities with subcontracting partners, through such measures as sharing of project risks with e-Partner Contracts, a contracted business partner with high levels of specialized business expertise, and demands for greater security and thorough information management on the part of subcontracting partners. Our subcontracting partners are not only in Japan, but also in various overseas locations, including China. Currently, Chinese companies account for 15% of subcontracting costs. We are therefore striving to strengthen this system of cooperation by regularly dispatching executives and employees to China to visit subcontracting partners and check the status of projects. In spite of all these efforts, in case we fail to secure superior subcontracting partners or maintain a good business relationship with them, we might not be able to conduct business smoothly. Especially in subcontracting to a subcontracting partner overseas, an unexpected event might occur caused by political, economic, or social factors which are different from those in Japan. 2. Contract work There have been calls for appropriate responses in compliance with labor-related laws when contracting business outsourcing work is carried out under service contracts. NRI has formulated guidelines relating to contract work to raise common awareness of this problem and to allow the awareness to take root in NRI. In addition, we host meetings to explain our policies to subcontracting partners as part of our drive for entirely appropriate business outsourcing. If despite these efforts, work outside the scope of the contract work is carried out and disguised contract issues and so forth arise, NRI may lose credibility. ▶ Fair trade Fair business relationship with business partners In accordance with antitrust legislation, the NRI Group prohibits employees from abusing their dominant position as outsourcers. Furthermore, with respect to compliance with the Act against Delay in Payment of Subcontract Proceeds, Etc. to Subcontractors, outsourcing to subcontractors is in thorough compliance with the law, including with respect to the exchange of order documents, and payment dates. In addition, we inform our partner companies in writing that we decline offers of gifts and entertainment, and we thoroughly ensure our employees at the NRI Group are aware of the same. Voluntary inspection for appropriate subcontracted operations The partner companies engaged in business with NRI employ just over 11,000 employees between them, and around 50% are full-time at NRIʼs facilities. In order to govern situations where we are performing operations with the involvement of these partner company employees,NRI has devised Subcontracted Operations Guidelines to maintain appropriate conditions for operations involving subcontractors. In addition, having the employees of subcontracting agreement partner companies work in separate locations away from our own employees is an endeavor we are undertaking to prevent “sham contracting,” as this could arise if NRI employees were to give orders or instructions directly to partner company employees. We voluntarily and diligently inspect our practices each year. Voluntary inspection results FY2014 FY2015 FY2016 FY2017 FY2018 Number of inspected projects 962 877 922 939 926 Coverage c c c c ｃ ▶ Information security of supply chain Strengthening management of information security at our business partners To ensure that our partner companies provide the same level of security as we do, the NRI Group requires them to sign confidentiality agreements and memoranda on the handling of personal information. In addition, NRI requests that they comply with its Security Guidelines, and also conducts regular checks on these companies by performing assessments of all aspects of their management of security and privacy. Assessments of business partners FY2014 FY2015 FY2016 FY2017 FY2018 Number of assessed companies over 100* 83 87 81 76 Coverage c c c c c * Including overseas 21 Governance Supply Chain Management Data ▶ Supplier screening criteria Supplier screening criteria We place a high value on business partners who observe laws, regulations and social norms while also contributing to the creation of a sustainable society by engaging in procurement activities that are considerate of the environment and human rights, etc. We provide opportunities for fair competition and comprehensively evaluate the status of environmental, societal, and governance efforts from the perspectives of business conditions, product and service quality, delivery, and cost, as well as contribution to society. ▶ Capacity building and incentives for suppliers Efforts toward mutual development with partner companies When the NRI Group outsources part of the operations for a project concerning the development or operation of information systems to a partner company in or outside Japan, the status of the outsourced processes as a whole, along with any issues and anticipated risks, are identified during regular joint meetings of the project team and responsible officers. With our principal partner companies, quality management officers from both sides also meet regularly, and aim to ensure and raise quality levels. The NRI Group is engaged in enhancement services reforms* to further improve quality and productivity. We are undertaking these activities in each project on an ongoing CSR Activities and Data Files│ Stakeholder Engagement basis in collaboration with our e-partners and other partner companies. In fiscal 2008, we set up a system for certifying “extended e-partners” (“e-e partners”) in recognition of their ability to undertake enhancement service reforms for their company as a whole and not just for specific projects with us. unit FY2014 FY2015 FY2016 FY2017 FY2018 Number of partner companies participating in the 19 17 15 14 15 Number of participants from partner companies no. of person 170 199 300 390 306 (cumulative number of people) Number of partner companies participating in management seminars 114 112 109 103 110 Number of participants in management seminars from no. of person 234 234 238 231 226 partner companies Coverage c c c c c * Enhancement: the term we use to describe our maintenance and operation services for information systems. Since enhancement also includes improvements and proposals, we see it more as a full service operation providing support for our clientsʼ entire business operations and systems. 22 Governance Client Relationship Management Management Approach Material issues of NRI related to this management approach “Communication with customers” and “Appropriate disclosure of information to customers” NRI's approach to material issues Throughout the entire value chain, companies are responsible for continuing to provide products and services that meet the needs of customers and users in a safe and reassuring way. The NRI Group provides information systems to various industries and government agencies, and has a responsibility to not only direct customers, but also to think about the impact on general consumers and users who benefit from information systems and the impact information systems have on society. The NRI Group will provide the highest standard of information-systems services through advanced technologies and organizational systems relating to information system quality and information security, and through consulting and IT solutions will create the foundation for industry and technology innovation in the future and connect the same to economic and societal development. Note: Please refer to the Information System Quality and Information Security sections below. Priority activities / Mediumto long-term targets NRI Group has set “Discerning new social paradigms and assuming the role of implementing such paradigms” and “Building clientʼs trust and prospering together with clients” in its corporate philosophy as its mission, indicating its intent to “co-create future society” together with the customers. We shall aim for sustained growth of NRI Group and the creation of a sustainable future society through “value co-creation” with our customers. [Long Term Management Vision “Vision 2022”] Under the abovementioned corporate philosophy, we have established “Vision 2022”, the long-term management vision till the end of FY 2022. “Share the Next Values!”, the vision statement for Vision2022 expresses the intent of NRI Group to continuously make challenges for the realization of new values together with our customers. [Thoughts Concentrated in “Share the Next Values!”] • Share: The diverse variety of personnel within and outside the NRI Group join together to pool their collective effort, and share the achievements and joy of contributing to a vibrant future society together with our clients. • Next: With the mentality of being ahead of the times, we pioneer globally, digitally, and into the realm of the future, to create new business models for the next generation. • Values: We refine our strengths and create value by providing various types of services to clients and to society, giving birth to new future-minded business models. [Medium-Term Management Plan (2019-2022)] “Medium-Term Management Plan (2019-2022)” has been established as a plan for the four year period for the latter half of Vision2022. This plan not only refers to growth strategy and numerical targets, but also on the three social values to be “co-created” with clients, indicating our intent to promote “sustainability management”. [Growth Strategies （Priority Themes）] • DX strategy: Use technology to transform customer business models and processes • Business platform strategy: Evolve business platforms (BPFs) in finance • Cloud strategy: Modernize legacy systems by using cloud • Global strategy: Achieve more global business growth, seeking sales of 100 billion yen • Human resources strategy: Strategic recruiting, talent development and collaboration with partners to bolster NRIʼs competitiveness. [Numerical Targets] FY 2018 Record FY 2022 Target • Sales 501.2 billion yen 670.0 billion yen or more • Operating profit 71.4 billion yen 100.0 billion yen • Operating profit margin 14.3% 14% or more • Overseas sales 53.0 billion yen 100.0 billion yen • EBITDA margin 21.7% 20% or more • ROE 12.3% 14% [3 Social values] • Co-create a thriving future society by driving new valueｓ • Co-create an ideal society by effectively utilizing its resources • Co-create a safe and secure society by advancing its infrastructure” at its core to promote business Key performance indicator unit FY2014 FY2015 FY2016 FY2017 FY2018 billions Operating profit 514 582 585 651 714 of yen Operating profit margin % 12.7 13.8 13.8 13.8 14.3 billions Overseas sales 86 146 189 435 530 of yen ROE % 10.8 10.6 10.7 12.9 12.3 Coverage a a a a a Client satisfaction (percentage of “satisfied client”) % 82.0 83.4 82.9 84.6 87.0 Coverage c c c c c Link Files NRI Group Corporate Philosophy https://www.nri.com/en/company/c_philosophy NRI Group's Code of Business Principles https://www.nri.com/en/company/company_code NRI Group Employees' Code of Business Conduct https://www.nri.com/en/company/business_code Management Vision Driving toward Further Growth. Vision 2022 https://www.nri.com/en/company/vision 23 Governance Client Relationship Management Data ▶ Fiduciary duty Comprehensive deliberation on new contracts In response to business contract requests from clients, we decide to accept them by conducting the examinations. We make our final decision after thoroughly considering the fiduciary duty on quality and delivered date, as well as legal, ethical and operational risks for the contract. • Credit screening tapping into information from research firms • Project-by-project deliberation at the Senior Management Committee and each division meeting • Comprehensive assessment on the future potential, growth potential and social effects of the business ▶ Client satisfaction Client satisfaction surveys NRI conducts client satisfaction surveys for each project and has clients evaluate the entire project. We also obtain specific feedback from clients on our proposal-making skills and incident-management procedures. The Quality Management Department complies and analyzes overall trends through the results from the survey. It also provides the departments in charge of the project with feedback from the surveys and implements measures to follow up on the feedback and enhance service quality, leveraging the data to improve the service quality. Areas receiving a favorable assessment • Understanding clientʼs needs and issues • Giving clients project progress and issues reports • Specialized knowledge relating to systems • System reliability Areas of expectations for improvements • Greater intelligibility of manuals • Clarity of the basis for estimates and pricing unit FY2014 FY2015 FY2016 FY2017 FY2018 Client satisfaction*1 (percentage of satisfied client ) % 82.0 83.4 82.9 84.6 87.0 Percentage of clients surveyed*2 (percentage of business units) % 100.0 100.0 100.0 100.0 100.0 Coverage c c c c c *1 Calculating the weighted average as the percentage of clients who are satisfied with the top 2 stages out of 5 evaluation criteria. *2 The survey is conducted for all business units of consulting business and IT solution business, clients and project service subject to the survey are extractedon a certain basis for each business unit. 24 Governance Innovation Management Data ▶ Innovation management policy Approach to research and development To create a sustainable society, companies are greatly expected to create innovation and contribute to solving social issues. The NRI Group uses its high-quality study capabilities and R&D structures to pursue innovation-creating research and development. In order to make use of that innovation generated in the form of actual systems that operate societies, the NRI Group publishes recommendations for new national schemes and rules. We also put resources into communicating our study and research results so that innovations become widely recognized by members of the public and absorbed in their minds. As R&D focus areas, NRI conducts R&D for different segments. Our Consulting R&D looks at next-generation business and strategies. Finance & Industry R&D looks at promotion of DX and promotion of de facto standard business platform-ization. IT Platform Services R&D involves continually monitoring cutting-edge technologies, and strengthening ITʼs power to provide solutions that apply those technologies to peopleʼs lives and to society at large. ▶ Research and development system Research and development system The NRI Group pursues R&D in three areas: Social proposal , Technical development , Business development . The NRI organizations responsible for the various areas of our R&D are as follows, but as needed they engage in collaboration with different organizations both within and outside our Group. Research & Development Committee: As well as propose and discuss R&D strategies, this Committee reviews individual projects from a whole-company perspective, from planning through to application of the results. Center for Strategic Management & Innovation: Responsible for government policy recommendations and advanced research functions, this Center conducts surveys on new systems for society. Digital Transformation Production innovation Division: Responsible for the NRI Groupʼs technologies development, this Division conducts research into cutting-edge technologies and base technologies in the area of information technology. Our business divisions: Responsible for mediumto long-term business development and new product (service) development, these investigate product business feasibility, conduct product development, and undertake demonstration projects. ▶ Research and development situations Research and development expense unit FY2014 FY2015 FY2016 FY2017 FY2018 millions Total amount 4,222 5,110 5,674 5,170 3,665 of yen millions Breakdown by segments Consulting 814 1,056 1,247 921 796 of yen millions Financial IT Solutions 1,855 2,618 2,947 2,844 1,694 of yen millions Industrial IT Solutions 674 700 622 622 583 of yen millions IT Platform Services 876 734 857 781 590 of yen Sales ratio % 1.0 1.2 1.3 1.1 0.7 Coverage a a a a a ▶ Open innovation Open innovation case 1 “Dokokani Mile” is a mileage service for domestic flights in Japan that was developed jointly between Japan Airlines Co.,Ltd. and NRI. It enables users to go to one of four randomly displayed destinations for less miles than usual. An algorithm that was developed on the basis of a patent held by NRI is used in this service. This service increases travel opportunities for passengers who were unable to accumulate enough mileage in the past for exchange with an award ticket. It is also a service that will help people rediscover the appeal of various regions in Japan and lead to regional revitalization̶an innovation in which NRIʼs capabilities in analytics contributes to solving social issues. Creation and acquisition of new market: In addition to providing back office business IT systems for client companies that NRI specializes in, it led to the development of new IT system for client companies trying to provide new services that meet the needs of end users (customers). Reference Joint news release (February 4, 2019) Japan Airlines and Nomura Research Institute Joint Venture JAL Digital Experience established (Japanese only) https://www.nri.com/-/media/Corporate/jp/Files/PDF/news/newsrelease/cc/2019/190204_1.pdf 25 Governance Innovation Management Data Open innovation case 2 In December 2018, DENSO Corporation and NRI Secure Technologies, Inc., a subsidiary of NRI, established a joint venture, named NDIAS, Ltd., which is engaged in the cyber security business on security diagnostics for invehicle electronic products. NDIAS will harness DENSO's expertise in invehicle quality and cybersecurity technology development and NRI's proprietary machine learning technology to protect consumers against the rising threat of cyber attacks in the automotive industry. NRI has nearly 20 years of experience insecurity services in the fields of financial systems, infrastructure, and consumer equipment. The partnership will offer integrated security diagnosis and consulting services for invehicle electronic products from the vehicle development phase to the actions required after mass production. Reduced time to market: New markets will emerge to address the emerging emerging risks of the IoT era. NRI will conduct the spin-off business with DENSO, the world's No. 1 share of the world in automotive parts, and this enables rapid development and provision of products and services to this uncertain and fastmovingmarket. Reference News release (Sep. 27, 2018) DENSO and NRI SecureTechnologies Agree to Establish a Joint Venture for the Growing Automotive Cybersecurity Market https://www.nri.com/en/news/newsrelease/lst/2018/cc/0927 Open innovation case 3 TORANOTEC Asset Management Ltd., TORANOTECʼs wholly-owned subsidiary, offers a service called TORANOCO for investing using change. This is a service that allows anyone to invest with a small amount ofmoney. NRI has supported smooth service provision for TORANOCO by providing its investment account management system service and its back-office operations support service for asset management companies. Going forward, through this investment, NRI will work on the further evolution of “TORANOCO” and the development of new investment services. Specifically, by adapting TORANOCO to existing banks where NRI provides an account management system, it enables new approaches to young and inexperienced people who have not had investment experience so far. We will also promote the development of new asset management services for smallscale investment for financial institutions. Creation and acquisition of new market: By bringing young people and investmentexperienced people into the financial market, it can lead to the development of new financial system and service markets. Reference Integrated Report 2018:Investment in TORANOTEC that is involved in asset management and applivation development https://ir.nri.com/en/ir/library/report/main/08/teaserItems1/0/linkList/0/link/File076728205.pdf#page=40 ▶ Process innovation Process innovation Introduction of development tools of information systems Overview In developing large-scale information systems, NRI has developed a tool that integrally manages and supports both the quality enhancement and work efficiency. This development tool consists of two parts. one is “collaboration package” for efficient task management by accumulation and sharing of knowledge and activation of communication, and the other is development package which standardizes and automates the development work by totalling and visualizing the progress status of the project in real time. By introducing this tool, it became possible to visualize the project progress status of system development, realizing high quality management and improving work efficiency of project members at the same time. In 2017, NRI started marketing this tool as a service called aslead . So, this tool will contribute to increase of revenue, and it is expected that the results of NRI's process innovation will spread more widely throughout the IT industry. Efficiency gains Improvement in efficiency by introduction of this tool is expected to create about 30 minutes surplus time per person, which will result in a cost saving effect of about 5.6% as a whole. Reference News Release (October 19, 2017) (In Japanese only) Started marketing of development tools of information systems “aslead” https://www.nri.com/jp/news/newsrelease/lst/2017/cc/1019 aslead (In Japanese only) https://aslead.nri.co.jp/ 26 Governance Innovation Management Data ▶ Environmental innovation Environmental innovation Significant Reduction in CO2 Emissions Due to Shared Online Services Overview The usage of Shared Online Services leads to drastically reduced environmental impact. When multiple companies use a single system jointly, they can markedly reduce power consumption, CO2 emissions and costs, more so than when each company independently developed their own system. Estimates show that THE STAR, a back-office system for retail brokerage firms, enables the user to lower its CO2 emissions by 73.9%. Effects of environmental innovation unit FY2014 FY2015 FY2016 FY2017 FY2018 Sales ratio of Shared Online Services % 19.0 22.0 23.0 21.0 20.0 Coverage a a a a a ▶ Social innovation Social innovation Community development through consulting Overview There are about 700 researchers in our consulting division, which is one of the top consulting institutions in Japan in terms of the number of researchers as well as quality. Diversity of our consultation services to business, local authorities and governments of emerging/developing economies are all directly relevant to solutions for critical social issues. that is, social innovation. Effects of social innovation unit FY2014 FY2015 FY2016 FY2017 FY2018 Sales ratio of consulting % 6.8 6.7 7.2 7.7 8.2 Coverage a a a a a 27 Governance Quality of Information Systems Management Approach Material issues of NRI related to this management approach “Information security / system management” NRI's approach to material issues Information systems are widely and deeply ingrained in modern society in a variety of ways, and have become indispensable infrastructure for our convenient and comfortable lives. They are also cornerstones in the realization of new systems and services, and contribute greatly to societal innovation. On the other hand, when an information system fails, it has a large impact on economic activity and civic life. Since its establishment, the NRI Group has consistently focused on the quality of its information systems, from design through to maintenance and operation, with an emphasis on information services not stopping unexpectedly. In addition, all possible measures have been taken in providing backup and business-continuity systems in case of an emergency information system failure. Priority activities / Mediumto long-term targets The NRI Group provides total support, extending to maintenance and Operation, for the systems that we produce for a variety of business sectors, including the securities, banking, insurance, distribution, and communications industries. As well as develop a high-quality system within the time and for the cost agreed with the client, another important role for the NRI Group is ensuring the quality of our maintenance and operation of the system once it is up and running. From this perspective, in order to increase the reliability of our information systems, we at the NRI Group are directing our efforts towards the following priorities: • Quality management in the development of information systems • Quality management in the maintenance and operation of information systems • Increasing the reliability of the data centers that support the systemsʼ operation Progress / Achievements / Challenges NRI acquired certification for ISO9001 Quality Management System Standards in January 2002, which apply to information systems construction projects of a certain size or greater. In addition, in order to successfully guide projects building large and complex information systems to completion, we have established a project supervision system that systematically carries out risk management and project support. NRI has obtained ISO20000 and ISO27001 certification, which are international standards for IT service management, for all of the five data centers it owns and manages. Data center results Furthermore, Management and Operation certification (M&O Stamp of Approval), which is a global standard for data-center operation prescribed by Uptime Institute, a nongovernment organization in the United States, has been obtained for three data centers (Tokyo Data Center Ⅰ, Yokohama Data Center Ⅱ, Osaka Data Center Ⅱ), ensuring a global standard in terms of high reliability. The Tokyo No. 1 data center was the first data center in Japan to acquire the certification (acquired December 2014). KPI FY2014 FY2015 FY2016 FY2017 FY2018 ISO9001 Certification Status Acquired Acquired Acquired Acquired Acquired ISO/IEC 20000 , ISO/IEC 27001 Certified Data Centers 5 5 5 5 5 ISO/IEC 27017 Certification Status Acquired Data Centers with M&O Stamp of Approval 1 2 2 3 3 Failure Response Drills in Data Centers n/a approx.2,800 approx.2,900 approx.3,400 approx.4,600 Overall Operational Drills with Staff Involved in Data Center Operations 5 5 5 5 5 Coverage c c c c c Link Files NRI JOURNAL: Keeping the Supply Chain Moving https://www.nri.com/en/journal/sustainability/2017/01 28 Governance Quality of Information Systems Data ▶ Management structure for improving the quality of information systems Management structure for improving the quality of information systems Each business division is responsible for quality control when implementing projects. Moreover, in addition to supervising and promoting such activities company-wide, as organizations providing separate support, the Quality Management Division and the Digital Transformation Systems Development Innovation Division set objectives and formulate plans relating to quality, and also build quality management systems, provide standard guidelines and advise on projects. We are also actively engaged in resolving issues concerning the improvement of productivity, based on the idea that “improvements in quality improve productivity, which leads to further improvements in quality.” ・ Management Division Company Division Review, Quality Quality Monitoring, Management Department / Management Support, Guidance, Organization Reporting, Project Organization ▶ Initiatives for improving the quality of information systems Project support system for improving the quality of information systems Each division is responsible for quality management over system development, maintenance and operations, and consulting services projects. In addition, NRI has an organization which proposes and supports quality management activities for each division. NRI-QMS* (Quality management system) This is a quality management system built on the basis of know-how cultivated over many years of qualityimprovement activity. It involves the company having established internal rules, guidelines and models for business processes to ensure quality for individual projects, and is also a mechanism that seeks continuous improvement in quality through periodical reviews of the NRI-QMS itself based on customer satisfaction surveys and audit results. NRI has obtained ISO 9001 certification for quality management systems for applicable information system construction projects that require a minimum prescribed amount of labor. * QMS: an abbreviation of Quality Management System. NRI Standard Framework These are guidelines that containing standard processes for projects, as well as the activities and tasks to be carried out in each process, so that project quality and productivity increase through effective and efficient design and development in accordance with internal rules, project management, and review meeting audits taking place. These guidelines are shared with all employees through the intranet. They include tools and checklists to help improve quality and productivity, as well as samples, creation guides and case-studies for the deliverables (documents) that should be created in each process, and play a role in instilling practical know-how in the company. 29 Governance Quality of Information Systems Data Project supervision In order to successfully build large-scale and complex information systems, for projects involving building new information systems, we support each business division from both the monitoring function and promotion and support function sides. Separate from the management required for the implementation and success of each project, we are aiming for improved project quality by promoting project supervision activities that support early detection and responses for problems. We constantly monitor the status of each project and provide assistance for project-manager tasks through support activities aimed at risk avoidance/mitigation, while also providing guidance on improving development processes and deliverables to enhance quality. Furthermore, in order to understand and evaluate the risks relating to the quality, delivery, and income/expenditure for each project and respond appropriately, we conduct various review meetings in accordance with our internal rules at each critical juncture for the projects, including the proposal, estimate, construction, and release stages. There are three levels for the review meetings: company, division, and department, and the size, characteristics, and difficulty of the information system being built will determine the review meetings allocated to it. Each review meeting is not merely a process-checking opportunity; it is a place for a company expert who is well versed in areas such as project management, quality control, and information technology to ensure high quality is realized by conducting a rigorous examination down to the details of the system and also provide appropriate guidance and support to the person in charge of the project, including advice and know-how. The risks associated with each project are divided into five levels of impact, which are reported to the management meetings, and immediate or mid-to long-term measures are taken as required. Production innovation NRI has been building and maintaining systems by selecting the appropriate combination of technologies from the variety of technologies available to meet the needs of our customers. Based on that experience, we are endeavoring to improve productivity from the following perspectives. One is not only utilizing new functions when adopting new technologies, but also forming a group of experts for each technology to quickly acquire the expertise to ensure the quality and productivity of development using new technologies. Another is making progress with improvements in productivity that focus on shared processes that are not technologydependent in the maintenance and operation of the many systems NRI supports that apply various technologies from various time periods. We are aiming for Production Innovation by combining multiple policies in these two areas. Information system failure management NRI has created a company-wide system for reducing information system failures, with focused initiatives that have reduced the incidence of failures. At present, we are working to improve the quality of the system by appropriately implementing measures in the event of a failure along with measures to prevent recurrence, by establishing common rules throughout the company to ensure that action focusing on disaster reduction targeting the specific challenges at each location is continuously being taken. We manage failure impact levels in five stages according to the impact range of the failure, and have established reporting procedures for each failure impact level and created a mechanism that shares information without delay after a failure's occurrence. Failures that do occur are subject to deep and thorough analysis to clarify the root causes and allow relevant improvements to be made. We also have prepared a training curriculum on how to analyze failures and are working to improve the abilities and awareness of our employees and partners. Enhancement service reforms We will continue to support our customersʼ business, from the start of operation of information systems until they are retired. During that time, by improving functions according to business changes, system revisions, or advances in technology, a highly cost-effective system can be used for a longer period of time. NRI believes that it is important to continue to improve functionality while maintaining stable operation of information systems, and refers to the postoperation process commonly called maintenance as Enhancement. Enhancement is a task that continues for a long period of time, and is characterized in that the losses from any unaddressed problems and benefits from improvements are both large. Therefore, in order to promote Kaizen improvement activities throughout the company, we have established the slogan of Enhancement Service Reforms, and we are continuing activities to create and realize a Kaizen improvement plan for each system every fiscal year. 30 Governance Quality of Information Systems Data ▶ Quality management in the maintenance and operation of information systems Overview of quality control In order for created information systems to be utilized effectively, stable system operation is indispensable. The NRI Group has been offering reliable-quality system operation services 24 hours each day, 365 days each year for many years. NRI's Data Center Service Division has built an IT service management system called System Operation ITSMS based on that accumulated experience and ITIL*, and has been working to obtain ISO 20000 Certification, an international standard for IT service management, for the information systems it is entrusted with in its data centers. In accordance with the System Operation ITSMS, we are working to improve the quality of system operation and IT services by utilizing the results of customer satisfaction surveys and failure records. * ITIL: an abbreviation of Information Technology Infrastructure Library. “A systematic standardization of business processes and methods for performing the operation and management of information systems. A registered trademark of AXELOS Limited. Policy We provide high quality data-center facilities and operation services to all internal and external customers. ISO/IEC 20000 Scope 1. Data-center system operations management, system monitoring and data-center facility management Relevant Locations • Yokohama Center • Tokyo Data Center I • Yokohama Data Center I • Yokohama Data Center II • Osaka Data Center • Osaka Data Center II • Otemachi Cloud Control Center • Operating Office (The Landmark Tower) • Nakanoshima Cloud Control Center 2. IT service management systems supporting the provision of customer-oriented IT general control services and service desk services in the Operations Service Promotion Department, the Data Center Service Division Relevant Locations • Sapporo ITSM Center • Yokohama Nomura Building Efforts to improve operations quality and reduce system failures In operation services for information systems, obstacles such as equipment failure, processing delays from sudden increases in data amounts, or malfunctions due to improper operation cannot be completely avoided. The system operation department is working on a variety of initiatives aimed at reducing these obstacles to increase productivity, including the strengthening of collaboration with the information system construction department, promoting standardization, automation, and labor-saving of operational tasks, and improving operator skills. Strengthening Collaboration with the information systems construction department In order to improve the quality of information system operations, NRI is strengthening its approach with focus on operational quality from the systems construction stage. Firstly, we are collaborating with the information system construction department and moving forward to standardize the operational tasks to ensure stable and efficient systems operation. Items relating to operations have been established in the NRI Standard Framework as a part of the outcome. Furthermore, we have also started training employees in the system construction department to carry out systems design with consideration on operational quality. Secondly, in the event of a failure, the operation department cooperates with the information system construction department in the effort to clarify its cause and to take countermeasures. We also cooperate with the departments in charge for other systems, where there are concerns of similar failures, in order to establish countermeasures to prevent the occurrence of such failures. Promotion of Standardization, Automation, and Labor-Saving for Operations Tasks NRI is promoting automation in order to eliminate failures due to human error, such as task omission or procedural errors in the operation of information systems. We are using our own proprietary Senju Family operation management tool to make progress with automation, labor-saving, and mistake-reduction in systems operation, while at the same time achieving advance prevention of failures and prompt and appropriate responses if they do occur by standardizing tasks using other tools and leveraging collections of failure-response case-studies. Promotion of Kaizen Improvement Proposal NRI gathers more than 1,000 cases of proposals each year aimed at improving the quality of systems operations from employees of NRI and partner companies engaged in the operations of information systems. Awards are given to especially outstanding proposals. These proposals are reflected onto improvement activities, incorporating opinion from employees with thorough knowledge of the system operations. Operational Skill Improvements aimed at Automation and Labor-Saving In order to operate information systems stably, skill improvement of operators who operate the computers and network equipment is an important factor. In particular, as automation and laborsaving― progress, it will be necessary for operators to acquire a high level of expertise to be able to cope with various failures with fewer people. Accordingly, NRI conducts group and e-learning training for operators to improve their skills and awareness. Furthermore, to promote the desire of operators to improve and to have them acquire skills of a certain level or higher, a proficiency assessment system to judge proficiency through examination has been introduced since 2005. Silver or Gold certifications are awarded depending on the skills and support improving operator skills and motivation. 31 Governance Quality of Information Systems Data ▶ Increasing the reliability of the data centers that support the information systemsʼ operation Overview The stable operation of information system requires not only the quality of the information system itself, but also the quality of the data center that operates and manages the information system. In order to ensure stable operation of information systems, and to provide safe and secure quality of services, NRI visualizes the risks related to data center services, conducting training for each type of issue that could be anticipated. Furthermore, global-standard Management and Operation certification (M&O Stamp of Approval) relating to data center equipment and facility operation prescribed by Uptime Institute* has been obtained for three data centers, (Tokyo No. 1, Yokohama No. 2, and Osaka No. 2), providing an objective appraisal of global standard in terms of high reliability. Tokyo No. 1 data center was the first data center in Japan to acquire the certification (acquired December 2014). *Uptime Institute: A United States private organization that provides research, education, and consulting services for data center design, construction, and operation with the aim of supporting improved data center performance and efficiency. As one of the worldʼs leading independent organizations, it operates globally through locations worldwide (United States, Mexico, Costa Rica, Brazil, UK, Spain, UAE, Russia, China, Taiwan, Singapore, and Malaysia), creating tier standards for data center equipment and overseeing M&O certification. M&O Stamp of Approval December 2014 Tokyo Data Center I (Updated in December 2016 and Dicember 2018) February 2016 Yokohama Data Center II (Updated in February 2018) December 2017 Osaka Data Center II References Global quality standards for data center operation meaning of M&O Stamp of Approval and efforts of NRI (In Japanese only) https://www.nri.com/-/media/Corporate/jp/Files/PDF/knowledge/publication/it_solution/2016/09/ITSF160903.pdf Tokyo Data Center I acquires M&O Stamp of Approval for the first time in Japan (In Japanese only) https://www.nri.com/-/media/Corporate/jp/Files/PDF/news/newsrelease/cc/2014/141225.pdf Yokohama Data Center II acquired M&O Stamp of Approval https://www.nri.com/-/media/Corporate/en/Files/PDF/news/info/cc/2016/160425_1.pdf Uptime Institute LLC https://uptimeinstitute.com/ ▶ Issuance of SOC2 report Issuance of SOC2 report It is now a standard practice for global IT service companies to issue SOC2 reports. SOC2 reports are reports based on guidance published by the American Institute of Certified Public Accountants (AICPA) (“Report on Controls at a Service Organization Relevant to Security, Availability, Processing Integrity, based on Confidentiality or Privacy”), that evaluate the internal controls other than financial reporting, such as security and availability of subcontracted companies on the basis of criteria, such as trust services. As is the case with SOC1 report relevant to financial statements, the opinion of external auditors, the audit results, and a certificate of confirmation from the subcontracted company will be attached. NRI was the first in Japan to issue SOC2 report in 2012. In issuing the reports, not only did we receive a guarantee of safety and reliability meeting United States standards; we also received third-party assurance that we comply with the safety standards of the Financial Information Systems Center (FISC). (Note) SOC is an abbreviation of “Service Organization Control” ▶ Risk management on information systems Risk management on information systems As advance preparation for emergencies, the NRI Group has created an NRI Group Contingency Plan containing the basic response system and procedures in the event of an emergency situation. Risk Management in Information Systems in the Maintenance and Operation Phase In the event of a large-scale system failure, we will promptly set up an emergency response headquarters to coordinate with the relevant divisions and customers. Based on the circumstances of the failure, we will implement measures such as disaster recovery, investigation of point of origin, disclosure of information, and analysis of preventive measures. Risk Management in Data Centers NRI's data center has developed a Data Center Contingency Plan to support the important data of customers. We regularly carry out comprehensive inspections and crisis response training to ensure the interlocking of facilities that is specifically assumed the action at the time of a crisis, such as large-scale earthquake disasters and system-related power supply facility failures. 32 Governance Quality of Information Systems Data ▶ Certification for management system related to services provided by NRI Group ISO9001 Company Acquisition date Acquisition object NRI January 2002 Systems design and development planning and subcontracting for projects with anticipated workloads above a certain size NRI System Techno September 2001 System maintenance, operation and development for subcontracted projects ISO/IEC 20000 Company Acquisition date Acquisition object NRI March 2008 IT service management systems supporting the provision of customer-oriented IT general control services and service desk services in the Operations Service Promotion Department, the Data Center Service Division April 2009 Data-center system operations management, system monitoring and data-center facility management NRI Data i Tech December 2007 IT infrastructure total support service October 2008 Integrated desktop services provided to Nomura Securities Co., Ltd. ▶ NRI Group's information communication on quality management of information systems Book of lectures Book name Publisher Issued date IT Road Map 2019 Edition Toyo Keizai Inc. March 2019 Information and communication technology will change after five years! https://www.nri.com/jp/knowledge/book/lst/2019/o_book202 IT Navigator 2019 Edition Toyo Keizai Inc. Dicember 2018 https://www.nri.com/jp/knowledge/book/lst/2018/o_book198 Illustrated artificial intelligence SB Creative Corp. October 2018 https://www.nri.com/jp/knowledge/book/lst/2018/artificial_intelligence Introduction to Bitcoin [technology] for realizing robust system development and Gijyutsu-Hyoron Co., Ltd. July 2018 operation https://www.nri.com/jp/knowledge/book/lst/2018/bitcoin Digital capitalism Toyo Keizai Inc. May 2019 https://www.nri.com/jp/knowledge/book/lst/2018/digital_capitalism Final edition EV shift-once every 100 years of a major transformation Toyo Keizai Inc. April 2018 https://www.nri.com/jp/knowledge/book/lst/2018/eva_shift Periodical Publication name Frequency of issue IT Solutions Frontier (In Japanese only) https://www.nri.com/jp/knowledge/publication/cc/it_solution 33 Governance Information Security Management Approach Material issues of NRI related to this management approach “Information security / system management” NRI's approach to material issues As information systems penetrate into every corner of economic activity and civic society, the risks associated with information security, such as cyber-attacks targeting social infrastructure, companies or government offices, or large-scale data-breaches, are growing all over the world. The NRI Group operates important information infrastructure that supports society, such as that for finance and logistics. In order to maintain service continuity and protect this valuable information, we are engaged in a variety of efforts to prevent information security failures in advance. In addition, in the unlikely event an information security failure does occur, we have implemented measures to minimize any impact. Priority activities / Mediumto long-term targets Recognizing information security risk as an issue that should be addressed at the highest level in terms of technology and systems, the NRI Group has taken the following key measures: • Advance prevention of information security failures • Creation of a solid governance system for information security Progress / Achievements / Challenges Advance prevention of information security failures In order to reduce the risk of a client's business data being leaked, we have established rules for each project concerning access to the live system environment and the removal of business data, which are continuously improved using the PDCA cycle. In addition, system responses are in place as preventive measures against cyber-attacks, and include the use of antivirus software, encryption for hard disks, and a variety of security devices, and we are also promoting systematic activity to collect and evaluate vulnerability and attack information in advance and enable prompt and appropriate responses. Creation of a solid governance system for information security A Chief Information Security Officer has been appointed, along with managers and personnel responsible for information security in all business divisions and group companies, to establish an information security management system for the whole organization. In addition to promoting information security measures, we are continuing our activities to enable rapid and more secure responses to emergencies, such as information security failures and cyber-attacks. KPI unit FY2014 FY2015 FY2016 FY2017 FY2018 About 12% About 1% About 11% About 11% About 27% Number of information security failures (year-on-year) decrease increase decrease decrease increase Number of major information security failures 0 0 0 0 0 Costs incurred due to major information security failures millions of yen 0 0 0 0 0 Coverage Link File Sustainability Topics: Protecting Our Motorized Society from Cyber-attacks https://www.nri.com/en/journal/sustainability/2017/12 Cultivating future security professionals for a resilient infrastructure https://www.nri.com/en/journal/sustainability/2019/02 34 Governance Information Security Data ▶ Information security policy Information security policy Nomura Research Institute, Ltd., and its group companies declare that the NRI Group shall observe all applicable laws and ordinances and shall fully recognize the roles that companies offering information services should play. The NRI Group has established a framework of advanced information security management that can serve as a social model to enable its companies to continue to be worthy of customer and public trust. Applicable scope NRI Group Reference Declaration of Information Security Measures https://www.nri.com/en/site/security_declare ▶ Information security management Governance system for the information security NRI has appointed a Chief Information Security Officer, who has developed a system of information security management for our organization as a whole. All business divisions and Group companies have appointed an information security manager and information security person-in-charge (PIC), who have developed a mesh structure that allows security measures to be undertaken on a cross-organizational basis. As well as furthering the implementation of our information security policies, this structure will enable us to respond swiftly, accurately, and reliably in the event of cyber-attacks and other security emergencies. The NRI Group contains specialist organizations that conduct surveys and research of the latest information technologies, as well as NRI SecureTechnologies, Ltd. that engages exclusively in information security business. We will draw on their technology, know-how and knowledge when preparing and implementing our information security policies. We have appointed an information security manager and an information security PIC at each of our overseas and domestic Group companies, who are directing the development of an effective information security system and the drafting of an information security enhancement plan at their company. In addition, the NRI Group has set certain information security protection standards, and engages in improvement drives designed to meet those standards. Planning and promotion Chief Headquarters organization Information (General Affairs Department, Information Security Legal and Intellectual Property Security Officer Promotion Department, Review of information Committee support Integrated Risk Management security activities (Consists of officers in Department charge of department Information promoting measures, etc.) Security department heads, Department etc.) Practice NRI Secure Technologies Head of Division Information security officer support Head of Department Information security NRI Workplace service officer Employee Officer in charge Chief Information Security Officer : Susumu Nishimoto Senior Managing Directors Responsible committee Information Security Promotion Committee Maintenance of rules In response to laws and regulations related to information security and the advance of information technologies, we establish or revise management rules as appropriate, including the Information Security Management Rules, Confidential Information Management Rules, Personal Information Management Rules, Specific Personal Information Management Rules, and Information Asset Management Rules. In addition, we have prepared operating procedures, guidelines, manuals, etc. for each of these management rules to ensure that consistent and effective information security management is conducted. Training and awareness on information security NRI conducts ongoing information security education to raise the awareness of information security, instill regulations, and improve the quality of security during design and development. In addition to conducting specific training tailored to the particular characteristics of our Divisions and Group companies, we arrange training for our overseas offices that can be undertaken in English and/or Chinese. We also actively incorporate group training and e-learning methods into our training programs. Number of information security training participants unit FY2014 FY2015 FY2016 FY2017 FY2018 Training for new employees no. of person 337 350 355 392 515 Training on response to cyber-attacks no. of person 141 44 129 78 83 Personal information training no. of person 6,292 5,711 5,807 5,997 6,116 Security training for temporary employees no. of person 1,544 1,516 1,535 1,641 1,695 Coverage b b b b bSecurity training for overseas offices no. of person 900 2,359 2,438 2,597 2,739 Coverage d d d d ｄ 35 Governance Information Security Data ▶ Measures to prevent occurrence of information security failures Information security in client's information system In order to reduce the risk of business data being leaked, we have established rules for each project concerning access to the live environment and the removal of business data, which are continuously improved using the PDCA cycle. For example, for projects that handle large amounts of personal information or projects that store information that would have a large impact on the client in the event of a leak, the oversight departments conduct individual inspections to confirm that operation is taking place in accordance with the rules. In addition, the oversight departments also check the validity of any initiatives concerning handling of any dataalteration from cyber-attacks, or system service suspensions. Audits undertaken to ensure the security of clientsʼ systems Object FY2014 FY2015 FY2016 FY2017 FY2018 Verification assessments conducted of project security rules no. of audits 245 231 269 230 165 Audits of public Web system no. of audits 34 49 37 84 77 Audits of responses to cyber-attacks, and corrections no. of audits 130 130 128 145 148 Audits of live productions and development management, and corrections no. of audits 137 130 155 10 11 Surveys of the use of AWS*1 and making any corrections no. of audits 28 14 14 30 48 Surveys of the use of BPO*2 operations and making any corrections no. of audits 35 3 3 1 3 Coverage c c c c c *1 Amazon Web Service. The collective name for the online services provided by Amazon.com. *2 Business Process Outsourcing. An organization contracts an external specialist company to perform some of its business processes. Strengthening management of information security at our business partners To ensure that our partner companies provide the same level of security as we do, the NRI Group requires them to sign confidentiality agreements and memoranda on the handling of personal information. In addition, NRI requests that they comply with its Security Guidelines, and also conducts regular checks on these companies by performing assessments of all aspects of their management of security and privacy. Assessments of business partners FY2014 FY2015 FY2016 FY2017 FY2018 Number of companies conducting audits over 100* 83 87 81 76 Coverage c c c c c * Including overseas. Measures for domestic group companies The NRI Group conducts regular information security assessments and supports improvement activities. Object FY2014 FY2015 FY2016 FY2017 FY2018 Audits of public Web system no. of audits 12 8 4 28 24 Audits of responses to cyber-attacks, and corrections no. of audits 93 96 99 107 19 Audits of live productions and development management, and corrections no. of audits 104 5 7 4 6 Surveys of the use of AWS*1 and making any corrections no. of audits 57 9 5 58 22 Surveys of the use of BPO*2 operations and making any corrections no. of audits n/a 6 6 3 2 *1 Amazon Web Service. The collective name for the online services provided by Amazon.com. *2 Business Process Outsourcing. An organization contracts an external specialist company to perform some of its business processes. Measures for overseas group companies The NRI Group conducts regular information security assessments and supports improvement activities. FY2014 FY2015 FY2016 FY2017 FY2018 No. of rollouts of information security packages for overseas offices n/a 14 15 16 17 Audits of public Web system n/a 3 4 7 3 Audits of responses to cyber-attacks, and corrections n/a 10 16 14 4 Company-wide responses to cyber-attacks The NRI Group uses system-based defences against cyberattacks, such as installing anti-virus (anti-malware*1) software, hard drive encryption, and installing different security measures (such as firewalls, IDS*2, and network behavior analysis technology*3). With cyber-attacks, however, it is the attackers who have the upper hand, and NRI is well aware that just system responses alone are not enough for defense, and to that end it is putting in place a Computer Security Incident Response Team (CSIRT*4). A CSIRT acts like a fire extinguisher, denying further success to any attack that does in fact strike a system. It collects, evaluates a shares information on vulnerabilities and attacks, and takes action that is organized, swift, and appropriate. We also conduct for our employees education and training, such as ongoing real-life training against phishing emails. *1 Malware, or “malicious software,” is a software program that upon infecting a computer automatically takes remote control of that computer, either stealing data that it stores or causing it to attack other computers. *2 IDS: Intrusion Detection System. A system for detecting unauthorized access to a computer or system. *3 Network behavior analysis (NBA) technology: Malware used in a phishing attack is often produced to target a specific company alone, which means it may not be possible for general anti-virus software to detect and eliminate it. NBA technology works by running software suspected of being malware in a highly restricted environment called a “sandbox.” Checks are then made to see if the software is engaging in behavior such as information exploitation or preparatory activity to that end, and if it is, it is eliminated. *4 CSIRT: Computer Security Incident Response Team. This is the entity (a team) that takes the appropriate response when it receives notice of a computer security incident. Alternatively CSIRT refers to the functions of that entity. Managing human error We have implemented layer upon layer of defenses designed to prevent email-related problems, such as installing software that prevents emails being sent to the wrong recipients, applying rigorous management of emails being sent to multiple destination, and encrypting attachment files. In projects involving the handling of highly sensitive information, we sometimes also require employees to get their supervisorʼs approval before sending certain emails. 36 Governance Information Security Data ▶ Policies for minimizing the impact of information security failures Policies for minimizing the impact of information security failures The NRI Group has rolled out a centralized information security failure management system. A feature of this system is that a failure is not just reported one-way from where it has occurred the system employs interactive communication, which allows decisions to be made based on a bigger picture formed from a range of perspectives. As well as achieving swift and appropriate responses to an individual failure, this feature helps to extend the take-up of improvement policies throughout the company. We have put in place a response system (which includes a Crisis Management Committee) based on the scenario of a cyber-attack. We have also drafted a Contingency Plan and conduct response training drills, helping us to be prepared for unexpected situations. ▶ Certification on Information Security Management System (ISMS*1) ISMS certification acquired Name of company, office, or division Yokohama Center Tokyo Data Center I Yokohama Data Center I Yokohama Data Center II Osaka Data Center Osaka Data Center II Operation office (Yokohama Landmark Tower) Nakanoshima Cloud Control Center Systems Consulting Division (partial business) Data Center Service Division (partial business) Cloud Service Division (partial business)*2 Insurance Solution Division (partial business) NRI SecureTechnologies NRI Cyber Patent NRI System Techno (partial business) DSB Co. (partial business) *1 Certification based on JIS Q 27001 (ISO/IEC 27001) *2 Certification based on ISO/IEC 27017 Croud Service Security Management System ▶ Personal data protection Policy for personal data protection NRI has a Personal Data Protection Statement, and it has made its Privacy Policy available to the public. In accordance with the Statement and Policy, our employees comply with the Act on the Protection of Personal Information Held by Administrative Organs; the Act on the Use of Numbers to Identify a Specific Individual in Administrative Procedures (the “My Number Act”); and other relevant laws and regulations. NRI demonstrates flexibility in its responses to changes demanded by the public, such as keeping abreast of rules and guidelines on the protection of personal information issued by regulatory authorities by the Personal Information Protection Commission. Applicable scope NRI References Personal Data Protection Statement (Applicable scope: NRI) https://www.nri.com/en/site/security Privacy Policy (Applicable scope: NRI Group) https://www.nri.com/en/site/privacy ▶ Management on protection of personal information Governance System for the Protection of Personal Information We entrust a Personal Information Protection Manager with the responsibility and authority to implement and operate the personal information protection management system. The Personal Information Protection Auditor is appointed by the President & CEO, and is in an impartial and objective position independent of the Personal Information Protection Manager with the responsibility and authority to conduct audits and make reports. The Personal Information Protection Education Manager assists the Personal Information Protection Manager, and has the responsibility and authority to implement education initiatives for employees and report on the same. Officer in charge This role is assumed by Chief Information Security Officer. Maintenance of rules Included in the Maintenance of rules section of Information security management . Training and awareness on protection of personal information Included in the Training and awareness on information security section of Information Security Management. 37 Governance Information Security Data Personal information held by NRI We have introduced a Personal Information Management Register System, and are aware of the status of personal information with respect to its registration, use, or disposal. In addition, the oversight departments conduct yearly checks regarding whether personal information is being handled properly or not. The personal information in our possession includes information concerning company directors, employees, and temporary staff, persons in charge of our corporate clients, persons in charge of our business partners (outside contractors and suppliers), and participants in NRI Group events. Personal information held by clients may also be handled in system processing. Point of contact for external inquiries Both external inquiries and general inquiries are handled by the public relations department. Strengthened Personal Information Protection Management for Partner Companies When partner companies handle personal information held by NRI, we request that they enter into a Confidentiality Agreement and Memorandum of Understanding on the Handling of Personal Information and also comply with our Security Guidelines. ▶ Risks related to protection of personal information Percentage of Personal Information or Customer Information Used for Secondary Purposes (Internal or Commercial Purposes) Not applicable. While the NRI Group may handle personal information held by a corporate client, the NRI Group does not directly possess or use said information. Number of Requests for Submission of Personal Information from Government or Legal Authority, and Response Not applicable. While the NRI Group may handle personal information held by a corporate client, the NRI Group does not directly possess or use said information. Accordingly, clients make decisions about and respond to any customer personal information protection issues, including requests from the government. Status of Countries and Regions at Risk of Government Control over the Protection of Personal Information in Information Systems We understand the situation in each country and region, and take appropriate measures. Number and Details of Violations relating to the Protection of Personal Information, and Measures Taken None have occurred. ▶ Acquisition of Privacy Mark* Acquisition of Privacy Mark NRI NRI Netcom, Ltd. NRI Data iTech, Ltd. DSB Co, Ltd. * Certification based on JIS Q 15001 38 Environmental Environmental Management Management Approach Material issues of NRI related to this management approach “Response on climate change”, “Consumption of sustainable energy”, “Recognize responsibility and protect the environment”, and “Show consideration for environments in our supply chain” NRI's approach to material issues The rapid development and widespread use of information technology has meant that the amount of electricity consumed by information and communications technology (ICT) businesses as a whole, as well as the CO2 emissions this represents, has become a serious global issue. Taking responsible action to help prevent global warming has therefore become a pressing obligation for the ICT sector. The NRI Group is actively working to solve global environmental problems from both approaches of Green by NRI and Green of NRI . Green by NRI refers to our contributions to help reduce impacts on environment by improving the efficiency and productivity of both our clients' businesses and societal systems through the services and policy proposal activities we provide. As an example of the great impact of Green by NRI activities, by expanding the provision of Shared Online Services that utilize one information system in multiple companies, the amount of CO2 emissions is greatly reduced as measured by society as a whole. Green of NRI refers to the NRI Group's efforts to further mitigate our own environmental impact by making NRI's data centers, office buildings and IT equipment more energy efficient and through environmental measures such as energy saving efforts of each of our employees. As an example of the great impact of Green of NRI activities, we are promoting the reduction of energy consumption by raising the environmental performance of the data center which accounts for about 80% of the electricity consumed in the business to the world's highest level. Priority activities / Mediumto long-term targets The NRI Group has engaged continuously in efforts to reduce greenhouse gas emissions, from moving our systems to a new data center with better environmental performance, to moving our main offices, including our Head Office, to office buildings with better environmental performance. As a result, we have achieved the 2022 environmental goal we established 2015 six years early, in 2017. The new environmental goal* we have established is one that adheres to the international request for measures against global environmental issues, with a standard meant to help achieve the “below 2˚C” increase in world average temperature that is the goal of the Paris Agreement. [Newly Established Environmental Goal] NRI Group greenhouse gas emissions (Total of Scope1+Scope2): 55% reduction by 2030 (as compared to 2013) In addition to the aforementioned goal, we have also established some indices: “renewable energy utilization rate at data centers,” to expand our use of green energy as a data center business, and “set environmental goal ratios（36% by 2030） for main clients towards the achievement of the ʻbelow 2˚Cʼ goal,” aimed at reducing the greenhouse gas emissions that arise from business operations in the supply chain as a whole.（NRI commits to engage 70 % of its suppliers and venders by emissions to set science-based targets by 2023) * Goal aimed towards the achievement of “below 2˚C”: Numerical value was set based on the goal-setting standards of “Science Based Targets (SBT),” an international initiative that ask companies to set greenhouse gas emissions reduction goals in line with scientific evidence, towards the achievement of the “below 2˚C” increase in world average temperature that is the goal of the Paris Agreement. 39 Environmental Environmental Management Management Approach Progress / Achievements / Challenges The status of achievement of environmental goals is as follows. • FY2013 (base year): 108 thousand t-CO2 • FY2018: 66 thousand t-CO2 • Reduction rate 38.2% NRIʼs efforts in helping to prevent global warming have been appraised highly by CDP, an international non-profit organization that assesses and rates companies on their disclosure of climate change information. In 2015 NRI was entered on CDPʼs climate disclosure leadership index (CDLI) for that year. KPI unit FY2014 FY2015 FY2016 FY2017 FY2018 Greenhouse gas emissions (compared to FY2013) % 7.9 19.8 26.9 30.0 38.2 Share of renewable energy in data centers % 0.1 0.1 0.1 0.1 0.1 Supplier's environmental target setting ratio % n/a n/a n/a 4.6 18.1 (Category 1, 2, and 11 of Scope 3) Coverage a a a a a Link Files Message from the Sustainability & Responsibility Committee Chair https://www.nri.com/en/sustainability/environment/message Green by NRI • Significantly reducing CO2 emissions from the use of shared online services • Policy proposal activities to boost data center energy efficiency • Contribution to mitigating environmental impact through consulting activities https://www.nri.com/en/sustainability/environment/Green_by_NRI Green of NRI • Data centers that boast advanced environmental performance https://www.nri.com/en/sustainability/environment/Green_of_NRI/data_center • Energy conservation and environmental impact reduction activities in offices https://www.nri.com/en/sustainability/environment/Green_of_NRI/saving • Environmental training for executives and employees https://www.nri.com/en/sustainability/environment/Green_of_NRI/education • Environmental activities by executives and employees (In Japanese only) https://www.nri.com/jp/sustainability/environment/Green_of_NRI/activities NRI Green Bond https://www.nri.com/en/sustainability/environment/greenbond Participation in a Program to Protect Asian Elephants https://www.nri.com/-/media/Corporate/en/Files/PDF/ir/library/AR2017e.pdf#page=51 40 Environmental Environmental Management Data ▶ Environmental policy Environmental policy Environmental policy NRI has established the NRI Group Environmental Policy and Biodiversity Action Agenda for all NRI directors and employees. To ask its business partners, such as external contractors and suppliers, to engage in activities that take into consideration the environment, social and governance (ESG), NRI has a procurement policy containing the clause “practice of ESG procurement.” Applicable scope All directors, officers and employees of NRI Group References NRI Group Environmental Policy https://www.nri.com/en/sustainability/environment/policy Biodiversity action agenda https://www.nri.com/en/sustainability/environment/biodiversity NRI Group Procurement Policy https://www.nri.com/en/company/partner ▶ Environmental management system Environmental management structure At the direction of the President & CEO, the NRI Group has formed the Sustainability & Responsibility Committee and the Social Value Creation Committee as organizations responsible for sustainable operation, including climate change issues, and presents sustainability initiatives and management proposals to the Senior Management Committee and the Board of Directors several times during the year. Officer in charge Kenji Yokoyama Senior Corporate Management Director Responsible committee Sustainability & Responsibility Committee Status of introduction of environmental management system (EMS) NRI has acquired ISO14001 certification, an international standard on environmental management systems, for its data centers which are considered to be main sources of CO2. As for NRI offices, we are introducing NRI-EMS, an environmental management system unique to NRI, starting from the fiscal year ended March 2016. In the fiscal year ending March 2019, China's Zhiming Group was added to the scope of NRI-EMS, and four new bases were added. In FY 2019, we will continue to consider introducing it to other overseas bases. unit FY2018 EMS Coverage (based on CO2 emissions) % 92.9 Data centers (ISO 14001 introduction rate 100%) % 72.2 Office (NRI-EMS introduction rate 84%) % 19.8 Overseas bases (NRI-EMS introduction rate 21%) % 0.9 Coverage a Environmental audit NRI conducts internal audits several times a year with respect to ISO14001 for its data centers and NRI-EMS for its offices, and is continuously improving the EMS PDCA cycle. Environmental disclosure NRI is promoting the proactive disclosure of environmental information, mainly through its Sustainability & Responsibility Committee. Since FY2014, we have also acquired environmental information assurance from third-party organizations, and are endeavoring to provide highly accurate environmental information in accordance with international standards such as GHG protocols. By these NRIʼs efforts, in 2015 NRI was entered on CDPʼs climate disclosure leadership index (CDLI) for that year, an international non-profit organization that assesses and rates companies on their disclosure of climate change information. Environmental training NRI has been pursuing NRI Green Style activities in order to raise environmental awareness of each director and employee, as well as engage in business operations that are environmentally friendly. In FY 2018, we will participate in ESG (environmental, social and governance) e-learning tests, and activities to participate in forest improvement activities * in Tadami Town, Fukushima Prefecture, which have been continuously implemented since FY 2016, and in Takao Forest, Hachioji City, Tokyo. We carried out family participatory environmental experience activities at the Natural School. Moreover, we designated ESG as an important assessment target in an internal incentive scheme titled “Dream up the Future Award , a scheme intended to spotlight activities that contributed to establishing and developing the NRI Group as the “Company Creating Future Society”. * In March 2016, NRI donated to a development project named “Tadami Experience and Observation Forest of Heavy Snow Forestry” in Tadami-machi. Breaches of environmental laws and regulations Not applicable. 41 Environmental Environmental Management Data ▶ Environmental mass balance Environmental mass balance of NRI Group unit FY2014 FY2015 FY2016 FY2017 FY2018 Assurance INPUT Energy consumption Electricity*1 1,000kWh 174,209 155,010 143,253 136,518 127,773 ✔ Kerosene*3 kl 29 20 35 32 0 ✔ Diesel*3 kl 56 279 103 112 128 ✔ City gas*3 1,000m3 473 407 311 569 628 ✔ Cooling, steam, heat*3 1,000GJ 88 88 87 100 85 ✔ Total 1,000GJ 1,837 1,655 1,529 1,492 1,390 ✔ Water consumption Water works*3 1,000m3 163 231 200 201 212 ✔ Paper rehouses use 3 Business paper* t 263 258 217 213 190 ✔ OUTPUT Greenhouse gas emissions Electricity*1 1,000t-CO2 92 79 72 68 60 ✔ Gas, kerosene, cooling, steam, heat 1,000t-CO2 7 6 6 6 6 ✔ Total 1,000t-CO2 99 86 78 75 66 ✔ Drainage for business*2 Volume of wastewater 1,000m3 50 40 40 35 37 ✔ Waste paper*3 Whole waste t 280 305 284 269 193 ✔ Final disposed volume t 0 0 0 0 0 ✔ Recycling rate % 100 100 100 100 100 ✔ Industrial wastes*4 Whole waste t 508 566 666 2,365 1,414 ✔ Final disposal volume t 28 52 22 75 41 ✔ Recycle rate % 95 91 97 97 97 ✔ Coverage (notes-2) Notes: 1. Past figures are shown as figures for which impacts due to important acquisitions, etc. have been recalculated according to “The Greenhouse Gas Protocol: A Corporate Accounting and Reporting Standard – Chapter 5. Tracking Emissions Over Time.” 2. Data coverage is as follows. *1 NRI Group *2 NRI Group companies with a Head Office in Japan *3 NRI Groupʼs Data Centers *4 NRI Group Data Centers and Buildings 42 Environmental Climate Change Data ▶ Governance for climate change Governance system Officer in charge Kenji Yokoyama Senior Corporate Management Director Responsible committee Sustainability & Responsibility Committee Incentives for management on climate change To ensure certain operation of the NRI Group environment management system, NRI encourages employees to obtain various external qualifications related to climate change such as ISO14000 internal auditor and energy manager qualifications. For employees who obtain such qualifications, the NRI Group provides examination fees and also recognizes their achievement in employee performance assessments. To realize the NRI Group corporate statement “Dream up the future,” NRI has a program for commending employees who contribute to enhancing the prestige of the NRI Group and achieving its vision every year. This program recognizes not only employees who are involved in activities to disseminate information for social recommendations and the development of new business and technologies but also employees who contribute to improving corporate value through ESG (environmental, social, governance) and sustainability activities. Risk management on climate change The NRI Group defines the possibility of detriment to the Groupʼs capital due to an unforeseen circumstance that occurs in business operations, or something that prevents the preservation or improvement of enterprise value due to a phenomenon that hinders business operations as business operational risk. The NRI Group has appointed a Risk Management Director and established a Risk Management Supervisory Bureau in order to establish an internal controls system and aim for continual improvement. Furthermore, at the direction of the President & CEO, the Integrated Risk Management Committee has been established and conducts appropriate inspections of the status of the entire companyʼs internal controls. The Integrated Risk Management Committee reports several times a year to the Board of Directors. Supervisory bureaus have been established for each of the main risks that accompany business activities, and when necessary, deliberations take place at specialist meetings, with the supervisory bureaus taking measures for appropriate responses in collaboration with business departments. With respect to responding to ESG issues, including climate change risk, in addition to the Integrated Risk Management Committee and at the direction of the President & CEO, the Sustainability & Responsibility Committee, which mainly promotes sustainable management, and the Social Value Creation Committee, which promotes CSV (Creating Shared Value) operation, have also been established. These three bodies work in a triangle-structure to promote and engage in management strategies for not only ESG risks, but also ESG opportunities. With respect to climate-related risks (including business continuity risk due to a natural disaster or similar), the Sustainability & Responsibility Committee, which has responsibility for business-foundational ESG, undertakes management to control the impact of the burden on society. The NRI Group has identified the materialities on which it should engage, and one of the 4 materialities is “the creation of a future society with a low environmental burden.” In alignment with the relevant materialities, climate change risk is managed by setting and publishing external environmental targets for each of the themes of “response to climate change,” “sustainable energy consumption,” “environmental responsibility and preservation,” and “supply-chain environmental consideration.” Furthermore, as foundational climate change management, PDCA has been implemented, with ISO14001 introduced in all 5 data centers and NRIʼs original environment management system (NRI-EMS) introduced in major offices. Response to CDP NRI responded to the survey of the international non-profit organization CDP, which evaluates and ranks information disclosure on corporate climate change from FY 2015, and in 2015 NRI was entered on CDPʼs climate disclosure leadership index (CDLI) for that year. ▶ Climate-related targets Climate-related targets Object Greenhouse gas emissions based on FY 2013 (Scope 1 and Scope 2 are targeted) Target By FY 2030, NRI Group will reduce greenhouse gas by 55% compared to FY 2013. Target year FY 2030 Progress unit FY2013 FY2014 FY2015 FY2016 FY2017 FY2018 CO2 emissions (Scope1+2) 1,000t-CO2 108 99 86 78 75 66 Reduction rate (compared to base year) % (Base year) 8.3 19.8 26.9 30.0 38.2 Coverage a a a a a a 43 Environmental Climate Change Data ▶ Climate-related risks Risks due to changes in regulations The world has accelerated towards zero-emission. The government of each country including Japan has started discussion on introducing and strengthening carbon pricing. However, the amount of renewable energy generation in Japan is currently in the 10% range. Even with 22-24% which is the government's target of energy mix of power sources in 2030, the amount of renewable energy generation is not as high as what other countries generate. It is predicted that Japan will be relying on fossil fuels to some extent. Therefore, if a high carbon tax, as expected by the IEA, is introduced to realize long-term targets for emission reduction, Japan's electricity prices are expected to rise, and the NRI Group, which owns data centers, also costs risk of increasing. In addition, IT companies in the United States and Europe are turning to zero-emission, which we believe to be a competitive risk. Therefore, the NRI group joined RE 100 and is working on securing all electricity with renewable energy in 2050. Risks due to physical impacts The NRI Group's business (consulting and system developments) is labor-intensive business, and labor costs are the largest cost item. Therefore, if climate change occurs and the number of working days decreases due to heavy rain or intensifying typhoons, new personnel will be needed. Increasing of the labor costs would be a risk for the NRI Group. In addition, the NRI Group has been increasing its workforce in emerging countries such as India. If the temperature rises and the risk of infectious diseases increases, there is a risk that the cost for promoting the health of employees will increase as a whole company. In response to the above, NRI is working to reduce risks by actively relocating offices and introducing telework as measures to strengthen BCP. ▶ Climate-related opportunities Climate-related opportunities The NRI Group has provided Shared Service which could significantly reduce power consumption, CO 2 emissions, and costs by sharing the same system among multiple companies. In addition, as the NRI Group joined RE100, it has set a goal of achieving a 36% renewable energy utilization rate by FY 2030 and 100% by FY 2050. Such low carbon and zero-emission services are expected to increase demands in the future, and we believe that this will be a business opportunity for the NRI Group. ▶ Action to mitigate climate change Mitigating climate change through products and services Shared Online Services: Amid concerns over rising power usage by the IT services industry as a whole, NRI has formulated a business plan intended to reduce power usage by the IT activities of the entire value chain, including client companies. Specifically, growing NRIʼs shared online service revenues will likely serve to curb the carbon dioxide emissions of society as a whole. Data indicates that using NRIʼs shared online service can allow our clients to cut their CO2 emissions by around 70%, compared to if they build and operate their own systems independently. unit FY2014 FY2015 FY2016 FY2017 FY2018 Green revenues 100 millions 790 927 978 1,001 987 (revenues from shared online services) of yen Sales ratio % 19.5 22.0 23.1 21.2 19.7 Coverage a a a a a 44 Environmental Greenhouse Gas Emissions Data ▶ Greenhouse gas emissions GHG emissions (Scope1, Scope2) unit FY2014 FY2015 FY2016 FY2017 FY2018 Assurance Direct GHG emissions (Scope1) 1,000t-CO2 1 1 1 1 1 ✔ Japan 1,000t-CO2 1 1 1 1 1 ✔ Overseas 1,000t-CO2 0 0 0 0 0 ✔ Indirect GHG emissions (Scope2) 1,000t-CO2 97 84 77 73 65 ✔ Japan 1,000t-CO2 95 81 74 70 62 ✔ Overseas 1,000t-CO2 2 3 3 3 2 ✔ Total emissions (Scope1+2) 1,000t-CO2 99 86 78 75 66 ✔ Japan 1,000t-CO2 96 83 75 72 63 ✔ Overseas 1,000t-CO2 2 3 3 3 2 ✔ Coverage aaaaaNote: Among the scope of the coverage of Scope 2, the electricity usage is a (NRI Group), cooling, steam · heat is b (NRI Group companies with a head office in Japan) GHG emissions (Scope3) unit FY2014 FY2015 FY2016 FY2017 FY2018 Assurance Indirect GHG emissions (Scope3) 1,000t-CO2 134 161 112 137 120 ✔ Category1 Purchased goods and services 1,000t-CO2 69 75 64 69 84 ✔ Category2 Capital goods 1,000t-CO2 16 48 23 44 12 ✔ Category3 Fuel-and-energy-related activities 1,000t-CO2 7 6 6 6 5 ✔ Category6 Business travel 1,000t-CO2 5 6 6 7 8 ✔ Category7 Employee commuting 1,000t-CO2 2 2 2 2 2 ✔ Category11 Use of sold products 1,000t-CO2 33 21 9 7 6 ✔ Category12 End of life treatment of sold products 1,000t-CO2 0 0 0 0 0 ✔ Coverage aaaaaNotes: 1. Among the scope of the coverage of category 3 fuel-and-energy-related activities, the electricity usage is a (NRI Group), cooling, steam · heat is b (NRI Group companies with a head office in Japan) 2. Past figures are shown as figures for which impacts due to important acquisitions, etc. have been recalculated according to “The Greenhouse Gas Protocol: A Corporate Accounting and Reporting Standard – Chapter 5. Tracking Emissions Over Time.” 45 Environmental Energy Consumption Data ▶ Energy consumption Energy consumption unit FY2014 FY2015 FY2016 FY2017 FY2018 Assurance Non-renewable energy consumption 1,000kWh 172,648 187,270 172,912 172,906 160,866 Electricity 1,000kWh 174,209 155,010 143,253 136,518 127,773 ✔ Kerosene kl 29 20 35 32 0 ✔ Diesel kl 56 279 103 112 128 ✔ City gas 1,000m3 473 407 311 569 628 ✔ Cooling, steam, heat 1,000GJ 88 88 87 100 85 ✔ Renewable energy consumption 1,000kWh 92 72 82 621 743 Coverage a a a a a ▶ Data center energy consumption Data center energy consumption unit FY2014 FY2015 FY2016 FY2017 FY2018 Data center energy consumption 1,000kWh 137,661 117,712 108,598 103,815 98,550 Renewable energy consumption 1,000kWh 92 72 82 75 72 Percentage used % 0.1 0.1 0.1 0.1 0.1 Scope of data center coverage % 100 100 100 100 100 46 Environmental Resource Use, Waste Data ▶ Water resources Water use unit FY2014 FY2015 FY2016 FY2017 FY2018 Assurance Water use (total) 1,000m3 163 231 200 201 212 Water works 1,000m3 163 231 200 201 212 ✔ Recycled water 1,000m3 Coverage b b b b b Waste water unit FY2014 FY2015 FY2016 FY2017 FY2018 Assurance Waste water (total) 1,000m3 50 40 40 35 37 ✔ Coverage* ccccc* c-: The scope of the coverage is NRI Group's data centers ▶ Paper resources Paper use unit FY2014 FY2015 FY2016 FY2017 FY2018 Assurance Paper use (Business paper) t 263 258 217 213 190 ✔ Coverage b b b b b Waste paper unit FY2014 FY2015 FY2016 FY2017 FY2018 Assurance Waste paper (total) t 280 305 284 269 193 ✔ Recycle rate % 100 100 100 100 100 ✔ Coverage b b b b b ▶ Waste Waste disposed unit FY2014 FY2015 FY2016 FY2017 FY2018 Assurance Waste disposed (total) t 508 566 666 2,365 1,414 ✔ Recycle rate % 94.5 90.7 96.6 96.8 97.1 ✔ Coverage* bbbbb* b-: The scope of the coverage is NRI Group data centers and buildings 47 Environmental NRI Green Bond (3rd Unsecured) Data Project status NRI acquired the trust beneficiary right of the Yokohama Comprehensive Center (Yokohama Nomura Building), which will use NRI Green Bond funds in April 2017, and has started using it as a lessee KPI Field Item Unit FY2018 Environment Industrial waste volume t 9.5 Recycling rate % 65.3 Social Occupational safety and health: Number of serious occupational accidents 0 (including subcontractors) Governance ESG related disputes (including subcontractors) 0 Local community contribution Actions taken for dialogue and interaction with the local community Winter illumination will be held from November 14, 2018 to February 17, 2019. Environmental evaluation of target facilities Assurance Yokohama Center (Yokohama Nomura Building) Unit FY2016 FY2017 FY2018 INPUT Energy resources use Electricity 1,000kWh 3,086 3,912 ✔ City gas 1,000m3 269 394 ✔ Cooling, steam, heat 1,000GJ 15 15 ✔ Total heat 1,000GJ 62 77 ✔ OUTPUT Greenhouse gases emissions FY2016 FY2017 FY2018 Electricity t-CO₂ 1,500 1,858 ✔ City gas, cooling, steam, heat t-CO₂ 1,453 1,745 ✔ Total emissions t-CO₂ 2,953 3,604 ✔ FY2016 FY2017 FY2018 Emissions per floor area t-CO₂/㎡ 0.05 0.07 Emissions per employee（A） t-CO₂/person 0.45 0.54 Yokohama Minato Center (Dia Building) FY2016 FY2017 OUTPUT Total heat from energy resources 1,000GJ 77 51 Greenhouse gas emissions t-CO₂ 3,963 2,537 Emissions per floor area t-CO₂/㎡ 0.12 0.14 Emissions per employee（2018.3︓B） t-CO₂/person 1.02 1.13 Comparison between Yokohama Nomura Building and Dia Building FY2016 FY2017 FY2018 OUTPUT Improvements in emissions per employee （（A-B）/B） ％ -60.6 -51.9 Notes 1. When conducting the environmental assessment on the Yokohama Nomura Building, a comparison was conducted with the Yokohama Dia Building that was the main transfer source. Notes 2. Emissions per employee is calculated based on the standard use area per person of 2.5 tsubo (8.3m2) that is prescribed as the office standard for NRI Notes 3. Because the energy resources for the Yokohama Nomura Building are electricity, city gas, and cold water and steam, total heat, greenhouse gas emissions, emissions per ﬂoor area, and emissions per employee are calculated based on these resources. 48 Social Labor Practices, Diversity Management Approach Material issues of NRI related to this management approach “Diversity of human resources” and “Sound hiring practices and labor-management relations” NRI's approach to material issues The NRI Group believes that employees respecting each other's diverse values is the cornerstone of a workplace environment where employees can continue to work happily, sound in both mind and body, and that this is indispensable to the company's sustained growth, as it brings about improvements in the productivity and creativity of individual employees and the organization as a whole. In addition, the NRI Group has expanded its overseas business, and one in every four employees now works overseas. Therefore, we promote diversity management in line with international social norms so that our value-diverse employees can become established and active in the NRI Group irrespective of their race, ethnicity, nationality, birthplace, social status, social origin (place of birth), gender, marital status, age, language, disability status, health status, religion, thought, belief, property, sexual orientation Regardless of gender identity and differences in job types and employment types. In addition, in order to transform this into growth potential for the company, we are working to create an environment in which employees can demonstrate their abilities fully while also valuing their own health and family life by reducing long working hours and improving work-life balance so that employees can demonstrate their creativity. In terms of recruitment, too, each individual's various abilities, expertise, and skills are appropriately assessed and decisions made without discrimination based on gender or similar. In addition to the regular yearly recruitment of new graduates, recruitment is ongoing throughout the year for midcareer hires and opportunities for persons with disabilities. When giving an explanation about the company during hiring, we disclose factual information based on the concept of RJP *. * RJP: an abbreviation of Realistic Job Preview.” Recruitment activity carried out using the idea of communicating to job applicants the truth about both the good and bad aspects of the work, its environment, and the corporate culture. Priority activities / Mediumto long-term targets The NRI Group has established the following objectives and is promoting initiatives related to diversity and inclusion. [Action plans under the Act on Promotion of Women's Participation and Advancement in the Workplace] (Target: NRI) Term: April 2019 to March 2023 Goals 1. Increase the percentage of female managers to at least 8.5% of all NRI managers by the end of FY2022 (appoint no less than 100 additional women to managerial positions). 2. Increase NRIʼs female employee hiring rate to at least 30% of its total recruitment. 3. Further heighten managementʼs awareness of diversity management. Initiatives 1. Continue the Leader Development Program for female employees with the goal of developing them into managers. 2. Persist with measures to attract more female student job applicants. 3. Heighten managementʼs awareness of their responsibilities from managerial and employee development perspectives with respect to diversity of employee characteristics and values. 4. Carry out system reforms aimed to allow all NRI employees to select diverse work style options. In addition, we have also established the following objectives and are promoting initiatives related to supporting work-life balance. [5th Term Action Plan based on the Act on Advancement of Measures to Support Raising Next-Generation Children] (Target: NRI) Term: April 1, 2018 to March 31, 2020 Goals 1. Promote use of childcare-related systems while facilitating improvements that make them easier to use. 2. Develop a workplace culture that enables diverse talents to flourish, and strive to make improvements in that regard. 3. Further improve the working environment to bring about more satisfactory work-life balance. Initiatives 1-1. Support employees returning to work by promoting operations of the in-office nursery school that opened in June 2017. Also, hold regularly scheduled explanatory sessions regarding the nursery school. 1-2. Encourage use of childcare-related systems for male employees through ongoing efforts to publicize and provide information on such systems (partner childbirth leave and childcare leave for male employees). 1-3. Gain a quantitative and qualitative understanding of circumstances surrounding use of the childcare-related systems and employee preferences in that regard, through questionnaires, interviews and other such means to consider improvement measures. 2-1. Prevent harassment related to matters such as childcare and nursing care by regularly implementing employment hierarchy-specific training programs and continue efforts to heighten awareness in that regard. 2-2. Support employees taking care of children and those who have returned to work by providing them with greater opportunity to plan their careers. To such ends, continue to engage in initiatives to support work-life balance, encompassing elements such as training and interviews enlisting supervisors together with employees who are expecting and those who have returned to work after having taken childcare leave. 2-3. Develop a workplace culture conducive to employees who are expecting and those who have returned to work after having taken childcare leave by instilling manager awareness in that regard through training and other such initiatives. 2-4. Promote greater understanding of diversity by carrying out initiatives that include training sessions and round-table discussions transcending generational divides and job titles. 3-1. Promote flexible working styles such that include telecommuting and utilizing various IT tools. 3-2. Encourage employees to take paid leave through campaigns and other such initiatives. 49 Social Labor Practices, Diversity Management Approach Progress / Achievements / Challenges NRI has been selected as a Nadeshiko Brand for the third consecutive year since 2016 as a listed company excellent for promoting female career. The Nadeshiko Brand is a joint initiative by the Ministry of Economy, Trade and Industry and the Tokyo Stock Exchange, and introduces listed corporations that excel in encouraging the empowerment of women as an attractive brand for investors who focus on enhancing corporate value in the mediumto long-term, and promotes investment alongside initiatives by the companies. In addition, NRI was recognized by the Minister of Health, Labour and Welfare as a company that showed excellence in implementing initiatives encouraging the empowerment of women, receiving Top-Rank Eruboshi Certification (Stage 3). This certification system is based on the Act on Promotion of Women's Participation and Advancement in the Workplace that came into effect in April 2016, and evaluated NRIʼs achievements in each of the categories of: 1. Recruitment; 2. Continued employment; 3. Work-style, including hours, etc.; 4. Ratio of women in managerial positions; and 5. Career-path variety. KPI unit FY2014 FY2015 FY2016 FY2017 FY2018 Female managers rate*1 % 5.2 5.7 6.1 6.4 6.8 Employment continuation ratio of female / that of male*2 % 74.5 80.9 81.9 78.8 74.3 3 Ratio of average service years of female / that of male* % 78.3 78.8 80.1 79.8 78.8 Female employee hiring rate*4 % 23.5 27.6 25.6 26.7 27.6 Coverage c c c c c *1 As of the beginning of each fiscal year (April 1) *2 As of the beginning of each fiscal year and cover employees hired in the three years preceding the 9-11 fiscal year. *3 As of the end of each fiscal year (March 31) *4 Calculated based on total value for each year Link Files Relating the Act on Promotion of Womenʼs Participation and Advancement in the Workplace (InJapanese only) https://www.nri.com/jp/sustainability/social/diversity_mgmt#flag2 Improving productivity through new working styles https://www.nri.com//media/Corporate/en/Files/PDF/sustainability/library/back_number/Sustainability_Book2018_e.pdf#page=14 Action Plan based on the Act on Advancement of Measures to Support Raising Next-Generation Children Main schemes of NRI for childbirth and parenting support (In Japanese only) https://www.nri.com/jp/sustainability/social/diversity_mgmt#flag3 Main schemes of NRI for nursing care support (In Japanese only) https://www.nri.com/jp/sustainability/social/diversity_mgmt#flag4 50 Social Labor Practices, Diversity Data ▶ Employee data Number of employees (Consolidated) unit FY2014 FY2015 FY2016 FY2017 FY2018 Overall Total number of employees no. of person 9,012 10,757 11,605 12,708 12,578 (breakdown) male no. of person 6,980 7,980 8,375 9,285 n/a % 77.5 74.2 72.2 73.1 n/a female no. of person 2,032 2,777 3,230 3,423 n/a % 22.5 25.8 27.8 26.9 n/a Non-Japanese no. of person 935 2,156 2,837 3,799 3,493 % 10.4 20.0 24.4 29.9 27.8 By region Japan no. of person 8,105 8,498 8,676 8,821 9,004 % 89.9 79.0 74.8 69.4 71.6 (breakdown) male no. of person 6,439 6,678 n/a n/a n/a female no. of person 1,666 1,820 n/a n/a n/a Europe no. of person 12 21 12 14 15 % 0.1 0.2 0.1 0.1 0.1 (breakdown) male no. of person 7 14 n/a n/a n/a female no. of person 5 7 n/a n/a n/a Americas no. of person 41 293 383 392 345 % 0.5 2.7 3.3 3.1 2.7 (breakdown) male no. of person 23 153 n/a n/a n/a female no. of person 18 140 n/a n/a n/a Asia no. of person 854 1,945 1,995 2,052 1,761 % 9.5 18.1 17.2 16.1 14.0 (breakdown) male no. of person 511 1,135 n/a n/a n/a female no. of person 343 810 n/a n/a n/a of which China no. of person 374 1,398 1,473 1,465 1,168 % 4.2 13.0 12.7 11.5 9.3 (breakdown) male no. of person 164 737 n/a n/a n/a female no. of person 210 661 n/a n/a n/a Australia no. of person 0 0 539 1,429 1,453 % 0.0 0.0 4.6 11.2 11.6 (breakdown) male no. of person 0 0 n/a n/a n/a female no. of person 0 0 n/a n/a n/a Overseas total no. of person 907 2,259 2,929 3,887 3,574 % 10.1 21.0 25.2 30.6 28.4 (breakdown) male no. of person 541 1,302 n/a n/a n/a female no. of person 366 957 n/a n/a n/a Coverage a a a a a Note: As of the end of each fiscal year Number of employees (Non-consolidated) unit FY2014 FY2015 FY2016 FY2017 FY2018 Overall Total number of employees no. of person 5,972 5,979 6,003 6,130 6,297 (breakdown) male no. of person 4,887 4,855 4,861 4,947 5,049 % 81.8 81.2 81.0 80.7 80.2 female no. of person 1,085 1,124 1,142 1,183 1,248 % 18.2 18.8 19.0 19.3 19.8 Average age of employees age 39.1 39.5 39.9 40.2 40.3 (breakdown) male age 39.6 40.0 40.5 40.8 41.0 female age 36.7 37.0 37.5 37.7 37.6 Average yeas of worked years 13.4 13.8 14.3 14.6 14.6 (breakdown) male years 14.0 14.4 14.8 15.2 15.3 female years 10.9 11.4 11.9 12.1 12.1 Ratio of female / that of male % 78.3 78.8 80.1 79.8 78.8 Non-Japanese no. of person 108 88 92 106 112 % 1.8 1.5 1.5 1.7 1.8 By age Below 30 years no. of person 1,315 1,248 1,172 1,158 1,223 % 22.0 20.9 19.5 18.9 19.4 (breakdown) male no. of person 951 892 847 820 858 female no. of person 364 356 325 338 365 30-39 years no. of person 2,039 2,042 2,031 2,023 2,044 % 34.1 34.2 33.8 33.0 32.5 (breakdown) male no. of person 1,708 1,687 1,650 1,640 1,640 female no. of person 331 355 381 383 404 40 49 years no. of person 1,662 1,589 1,583 1,624 1,575 % 27.8 26.6 26.4 26.5 25.0 (breakdown) male no. of person 1,378 1,302 1,285 1,315 1,268 female no. of person 284 287 298 309 307 50-59 years no. of person 872 1,016 1,116 1,221 1,338 % 14.6 17.0 18.6 19.9 21.2 (breakdown) male no. of person 775 905 1,000 1,092 1,190 female no. of person 97 111 116 129 148 Over 60 years no. of person 84 84 101 104 117 % 1.4 1.4 1.7 1.7 1.9 (breakdown) male no. of person 72 69 79 80 93 female no. of person 12 15 22 24 24 By managers position level Total number of managers no. of person 2,353 2,427 2,501 2,607 2,733 (breakdown) male no. of person 2,231 2,288 2,348 2,441 2,547 % 94.8 94.3 93.9 93.6 93.2 female no. of person 122 139 153 166 186 % 5.2 5.7 6.1 6.4 6.8 of which general manager or higher position no. of person 194 188 201 211 213 (breakdown) male no. of person 189 182 195 204 205 % 97.4 96.8 97.0 96.7 96.2 female no. of person 5 6 6 7 8 % 2.6 3.2 3.0 3.3 3.8 Coverage c c c c c Note: As of the end of each fiscal year, but “By managers position level” is as of the beginning of each fiscal year 51 Social Labor Practices, Diversity Data ▶ Employment of persons with disabilities Promoting employment of persons with disabilities NRI has been actively working to recruit persons with disabilities. At NRI Mirai, Ltd., a special subsidiary of NRI, Health Keepers (visually-impaired corporate physiotherapists) fulfill their duties by providing relaxation services to NRI Group employees at massage rooms in place at principal offices. Office Supporters, comprising of mentally impaired persons, work actively to provide training assistance, digitize documents, deliver internal mail, keep office space in order and look after equipment and fixtures, among other diverse activities. We will continue to promote workplace participation of persons with disabilities by discovering further employment opportunities for them. unit FY2014 FY2015 FY2016 FY2017 FY2018 Number of employees with disabilities no. of person 108 117 119 134 136 Rate of employees with disabilities* % 2.1 2.2 2.2 2.2 2.4 Coverage c d d d d Notes: 1. As of the end of each fiscal year 2. d: The scope of coverage is based on NRI and its group company to which the special subsidiary system is applied. * Actual employment rate based on Act on Promotion of Employment of Persons with Disabilities ▶ Remuneration Average annual salary unit FY2014 FY2015 FY2016 FY2017 FY2018 Employee as a whole thousands of yen 10,892 11,560 11,514 11,660 12,217 Coverage c c c c c Note: Including bonus and non-specified salary New graduates starting monthly salary unit FY2014 FY2015 FY2016 FY2017 FY2018 Master's degree yen 251,500 251,500 251,500 251,500 251,500 Bachelorʼs degree yen 221,500 221,500 221,500 221,500 221,500 Coverage c c c c c Note: New graduate recruitment employee who joined the first business day of April of that year ▶ Promoting diversity and inclusion Promotion of Women's Participation and Advancement Since FY2008, NRI has been expanding the activities of the NRI Women's Network (NWN), which are based on the three pillars of “support for female employees in developing their careers,” “support for balancing work and parenting,” and “fostering a better corporate culture.” Rising ratios of female employees and women continuing to work have become the norm, and in recent years NWN activities have focused on a more professional approach broadening one's career and continuing to play an active role. We formulated an action plan based on the Act on Promotion of Women's Participation and Advancement in the Workplace, and in FY2016 we started a Leader Development Program and Career Design Seminars to support women's career development. We are also continuously working on childbirth and childcare initiatives, and are proactively encouraging not only the employee undergoing the life-event, but also their supervisor, including through three-party interviews aimed at pregnant employees and their supervisors, training to support balancing work and childcare attended by employees who have returned from childcare leave and their supervisors as a pair, and our Support for Balancing Work and Childcare Guide Book for Supervisors. Thanks to these initiatives, NRI has continued to be selected for the Nadeshiko Brand since 2016 as a listed corporation that excels in encouraging the empowerment of women. The Nadeshiko Brand is a joint initiative by the Ministry of Economy, Trade and Industry and the Tokyo Stock Exchange, and introduces listed corporations that excel in encouraging the empowerment of women as an attractive brand for investors who focus on enhancing corporate value in the mediumto long-term, and promotes investment alongside initiatives by the companies. In addition, NRI was recognized by the Minister of Health, Labour and Welfare as a company that showed excellence in implementing initiatives encouraging the empowerment of women, receiving Top-Rank Eruboshi Certification (Stage 3). This certification system is based on the Act on Promotion of Women's Participation and Advancement in the Workplace that came into effect in April 2016, and evaluated NRIʼs achievements in each of the categories of: 1. Recruitment; 2. Continued employment; 3. Work-style, including hours, etc.; 4. Ratio of women in managerial positions; and 5. Career-path variety. In addition, NRI was included in the MSCI Japan Empowering Women Index in July 2017. This index is one of the three ESG indices selected for passive operation by the Government Pension Investment Fund (GPIF). THE INCLUSION OF Nomura Research Institute, Ltd IN ANY MSCI INDEX, AND THE USE OF MSCI LOGOS, TRADEMARKS, SERVICE MARKS OR INDEX NAMES HEREIN, DO NOT CONSTITUTE A SPONSORSHIP, ENDORSEMENT OR PROMOTION OF Nomura Research Institute, Ltd BY MSCI OR ANY OF ITS AFFILIATES. THE MSCI INDEXES ARE THE EXCLUSIVE PROPERTY OF MSCI. MSCI AND THE MSCI INDEX NAMES AND LOGOS ARE TRADEMARKS OR SERVICE MARKS OF MSCI OR ITS AFFILIATES. Labor-management consultation on diversity & inclusion Through informal gatherings and group negotiations with the Nomura Research Institute Labor Union, NRI continues to engage in dialogue both regularly and irregularly on topics related to its compensation and treatment, personnel system, and work environment. These dialogues also include discussions on important matters concerning diversity management. 52 Social Labor Practices, Diversity Data ▶ Long-term incentives Long-term incentives for employees In order to avoid a bias toward improvement of short-term performance, NRI has introduced an incentive system to improve long-term motivation, which includes an NRI Group employee stock ownership system, our Employee Share Holding Incentive Plan, and our retirement allowances (defined-benefit corporate pension and defined-contribution pension). NRI Group employee stock ownership plan This is an employee benefits system in which employees of the NRI Group (NRI and its consolidated subsidiaries) use a self-determined amount of their salary and bonus to regularly purchase shares in NRI, supporting the creation of mediumto long-term assets. Employees are awarded an incentive in the form of NRI shares amounting to 10% of their contribution. In addition, the holding of NRI shares also serves as an incentive system to increase motivation to improve the performance of the NRI Group. In addition, dividends are re-invested in purchases of NRI shares after tax is subtracted. Ratio of shares owned by the stock ownership group to the total number of shares issued by NRI: 4.20% (as of March 31, 2019) Trust-type employee holding incentive plan In order to provide incentives for raising NRIʼs corporate value over the medium and long terms, and further expand employee benefit packages, NRI adopts the Trust-type Employee Stock Ownership Incentive Plan. The Plan is an incentive plan for all of NRI Groupʼs employees participating in NRI Group Employee Stock Ownership Group. For the Plan, NRI has set up the specific trust (the Trust) for the Stock Ownership Group with a trust bank. The Trust will take out loans to purchase in advance in amount of NRIʼs stock that is expected to be purchased by the Stock Ownership Group over the following three years. After that, the Trust will continuously sell the NRI stock to the Stock Ownership Group. IF a substansial amount of funds from the sale of NRI stock remains in the Trust at the time it is terminated, the funds willl be distributed to qualified beneficiaries as residual assets. As a result, employees will benefit from the rise in NRI's stock price over the three-year period that is a trust period, which is an incentive for mediumto long-term performance improvement. ▶ Hire and turnover Hire and turnover unit FY2014 FY2015 FY2016 FY2017 FY2018 Number of hires Total no. of person 293 299 289 339 452 (breakdown) male no. of person 219 210 212 256 328 % 74.7 70.2 73.4 75.5 72.6 female no. of person 74 89 77 83 124 % 25.3 29.8 26.6 24.5 27.4 New graduate hires no. of person 247 246 223 266 319 Mid-career hires no. of person 46 53 66 73 133 Number of Turnover* Total no. of person 213 223 237 266 284 Turnover rate* % 3.2 3.3 3.5 3.8 3.9 Coverage c c c c c Note: Fiscal year aggregate value * Including mandatory retirees New graduate recruitment unit FY2014 FY2015 FY2016 FY2017 FY2018 Number of hires no. of person 247 246 223 266 319 (breakdown) male no. of person 189 178 166 195 231 % 76.5 72.4 74.4 73.3 72.4 female no. of person 58 68 57 71 88 % 23.5 27.6 25.6 26.7 27.6 of which, Bachelor's degree or above no. of person 247 246 223 266 319 (breakdown) male no. of person 189 178 177 195 231 female no. of person 58 68 57 71 88 of which, Junior college, Vocational school no. of person 0 0 0 0 0 of which, High school, Others no. of person 0 0 0 0 0 Coverage c c c c c Note: Fiscal year aggregate value Mid-career recruitment unit FY2014 FY2015 FY2016 FY2017 FY2018 Number of hires 46 53 66 73 133 (breakdown) male no. of person 30 32 46 61 97 % 65.2 60.4 69.7 83.6 72.9 female no. of person 16 21 20 12 36 % 34.8 39.6 30.3 16.4 27.1 Coverage c c c c c Note: Fiscal year aggregate value Continued employment 10 years after hiring unit FY2014 FY2015 FY2016 FY2017 FY2018 Employment continuation ratio of female / that of male*1 % 74.5 80.9 81.9 78.8 74.3 Coverage c c c c ｃ *1 As of the beginning of each fiscal year and cover employees hired in the three years preceding the 9-11 fiscal year. New graduate hires retention rate after 3 years unit FY2014 FY2015 FY2016 FY2017 FY2018 Number of new graduates hired before 2 business years* no. of person 265 228 242 240 218 (breakdown) male no. of person 202 170 185 174 164 female no. of person 63 58 57 66 54 Number of continuing employees in the following ﬁscal yearamong ne no. of person 253 211 220 224 209 (breakdown) male no. of person 194 160 168 164 161 female no. of person 59 51 52 60 48 New graduate hires retention rate after 3 years % 95.5 92.5 90.9 93.3 95.9 (breakdown) male % 96.0 94.1 90.8 94.3 98.2 female % 93.7 87.9 91.2 90.9 88.9 Coverage c c c c c * Only those who joined on April 1 53 Social Labor Practices, Diversity Data ▶ Employee satisfaction Employee survey NRI takes a multifaceted approach to assessing employee awareness, such that mainly involves gauging employee satisfaction using three methods. Such initiatives target all NRI employees working in Japan and overseas, and the method with the shortest cycle is conducted on a semi-annual basis. Internet surveys are the primary means of assessment. The items surveyed include job content, remuneration, work-life balance, career support, employee benefits, work environment, work flexibility, and overall satisfaction. The survey results act as a basis for planning human resource policies and are posted on the company intranet to serve as feedback to employees. Employee survey results*1 unit FY2014 FY2015 FY2016 FY2017 FY2018 Employee satisfaction*2 60.3 80.5 Percentage of employees surveyed*3 44.2 37.4 Coverage d d *1 The 4 points-scale of the survey is satisﬁed , rather satisﬁed , rather dissatisﬁed , dissatisﬁed .(It was 5 points-scale until last survey in FY 2015.) *2 The percentage of the survey results above is the proportion of answers of satisfied and rather satisfied . *3 Data coverage shows the percentage of subjects surveyed (=NRI employees working in Japan) to the total number of NRI group's employees on aconsolidated basis. ▶ Work-life balance Work-life balance supports NRI has established a system covering durations of pregnancy and childcare that is more comprehensive than that prescribed by the Child Care and Family Care Leave Act. Shorter working hours and exemptions/limits on overtime because of childcare are available up until the end of the academic year for a child's third year of elementary school. Meanwhile, these options can be combined with other independent systems, such as shift work or work with selectable start/finish times. We have been working on initiatives to establish an environment for achieving continued balance, including introducing a “Partner Childbirth Leave System” in FY2016 for employees with partners about to give birth, and opening nurseries in our offices in FY2017. In addition to establishing systems, we are also focusing on providing information and examples to help employees select relevant systems in accordance with individual circumstances. We are also proactively encouraging a balance between work and childcare for employees, through initiatives such as three-party interviews geared to pregnant employees and their supervisors, and training to support balancing work and childcare attended by employees who have returned from childcare leave and their supervisors as a pair. In addition, we provide information through regularly held nursing seminars and our nursing-care concierge desk. NRI has been recognized as a corporation that supports child rearing based on the Act on Advancement of Measures to Support Raising Next-Generation Children, having received the certification mark (nicknamed “Kurumin”) since 2007. In addition to having gained the certification for five consecutive terms, in 2018 we also received the “Platinum Kurumin” special certification granted to companies that carry out initiatives which meet even higher standards. Utilization of work-life balance support system unit FY2014 FY2015 FY2016 FY2017 FY2018 Number of employees acquiring Paid maternity leave no. of person 12 17 13 9 13 Number of employees acquiring Preand post-childbirth leave no. of person 53 73 76 56 72 Number of employees acquiring Childcare leave no. of person 56 96 130 252 261 (breakdown) male no. of person 9 21 60 189 194 female no. of person 47 75 70 63 67 Number of employees utilizing shorter work hour system for childcare no. of person 79 96 107 107 113 Childcare leave acquiring rate (breakdown) male % n/a 6.1 18.7 59.6 61.0 female % 100.0 100.0 100.0 100.0 100.0 Employees returning to work after childcare leave (female) % 96.1 97.9 97.3 97.0 96.7 Employees remaining in work after childcare leave (female) % 95.9 92.3 91.7 93.3 92.8 Number of employees acquiring Nursing care leave no. of person 1 1 2 3 3 Number of total days of acquiring nursing care leave days 45 48 43 34 16 Number of employees utilizing shorter work hour system for nursing no. of person 0 0 0 0 16 Coverage c c c c ｃ 54 Social Labor Practices, Diversity Data ▶ Support for diverse and flexible working styles Measures to support diverse and flexible working styles For specialist professions, NRI employs a discretionary labor system in which work formats and hours are to be self-managed at the discretion of the person in question. We furthermore aim for further efficiency and productivity improvements with respect to work accomplishments in specialist professions. In addition to discretion in terms of time, this has involved putting in place a system to also allow a certain amount of discretion in terms of location, making it possible to schedule work from home or a satellite office up to a limit of 100 days per year. Moreover, in Sapporo and Fukuoka we recruit for local positions that are based on the premise of working in those locations. In FY2018, we introduced educational opportunities on a company-wide basis through the Coursera online learning platform, thereby enabling our employees with diverse and flexible working styles to work toward self-study at their own pace regardless of time or location. Establishment of in-office nurseries In order to support our employees returning to work at their desired timing and the development of their career plans, in June 2017, we opened the Yumeminato Hoikuen as NRI's first in-office nursery, in the Yokohama Center (Yokohama Nomura Building). Creation of a system to encourage men's participation in housework and childcare In January 2017, we introduced partner childbirth leave and established a system that makes it easier for our male employees to proactively participate in childcare. In addition to making the “Support for Balancing Work and Childcare Guide Book for Men” available to all of our employees, we have otherwise been promoting greater understanding of the companyʼs systems relating to childcare by conducting briefing sessions introducing our in-house systems and also providing information containing child-rearing advice of our male and female employees currently raising children. We also hold round-table discussions carried out by our male employees who have taken childcare leave. Enhancement of measures to support employees returning to work Three-party interviews aimed at pregnant employees and their supervisors have been taking place throughout pregnancy periods since FY2011. We support a smooth return to the workplace by deepening understanding of the internal systems and discussing post-return working styles. Since FY2010, we have continued to provide training to support balancing work and childcare after an employee returns from childcare leave, which includes guidance for both female employees and their supervisors. In FY2016, we further strengthened our support, commencing Follow-up Seminars on Balancing Work and Childcare for employees who had undergone training to support balancing work and childcare 1-2 years earlier. Encouragement of the taking of paid leave We have been encouraging employees to schedule consecutive days off, including hot-weather leave and revitalization leave. Since FY2016, we have been achieving a rate of paid vacation days taken of not less than 70%. Telecommuting system NRI has had a system in place for some time whereby an employee can work at an NRI office that is different from their usual place of work. In March 2016, we introduced a telecommuting system to further improve the efficiency of our operations and increase productivity. We have also been holding campaigns promoting use of the system. In FY2017 and FY2018, NRI was a special participant in the “Telework Days” event implemented by six ministries including the Ministry of Internal Affairs and Communications, in collaboration with the Tokyo Metropolitan Government and the business community. A total of approximately 6,000 employees engaged in telecommuting during the five days of the event, and since that time more than 1,000 employees have been making use of telecommuting arrangements every month. Satellite offices NRIʼs main offices have “liaison centers” which are made available as satellite offices for workers with no desks at those locations. We also have contractual agreements with satellite offices of outside entities in order to provide our employees with efficient and flexible work arrangements. Casual wear With the objective of increasing productivity by encouraging flexible ideas from relaxed attire, the NRI Group has allowed employees to work in casual wear since 1996, under guidelines such as wearing a business suit if you are likely to meet clients. In addition, since 2011, in the interests of power conservation we have relaxed the guidelines for casual wear during the Cool-Biz period from May to September, including not requiring ties to be worn in front of clients. 55 Social Occupational Health and Safety Management Approach Material issues of NRI related to this management approach “Sound hiring practices and labor-management relations” and “Dialogue with civil society” NRI's approach to material issues At the NRI Group, highly specialized personnel are major operational resources. If a situation in which employees are unable to fully demonstrate their ability in a sound environment due to substandard occupational health and safety occurs, there is a risk that business services, such as the information systems that are important foundations for supporting society, and the provision of consulting services that are deeply involved in client operations and businesses, will be impacted due to the lower productivity and quality of deliverables. Accordingly, since FY2015, NRI has been aiming to realize Health and Productivity Management*, which contributes to improving the Quality of Life (QOL) of employees and is striving towards achieving its goals based on the NRI Health Declaration 2022. Healthy Operations considers the management of employee health in terms of managerial perspective and strategic implementation. The health of our employees also occupies an important position from the standpoint of the company's risk management, and we will try to proactively engage in health management as a company instead of entrusting it to individual employees. It is extremely important for both the individuals concerned and the company that employees are healthy, and Healthy Operations will bring an injection of energy into the organization in the form of active employees and improved productivity by actively pushing employees to become healthy based on that philosophy, which as a result is expected to lead to improved business performance and corporate value. [NRI Health Declaration 2022] Basic policy: Based on correct knowledge and recognition for their own health by each employee, the NRI Group supports active initiatives for improving long-term quality of life (QOL). NRI is leveraging employee feedback gathered through surveys and from employee unions and is proactively working to improve employee working hours, health conditions, and the workplace environment. * “Health and Productivity Management” is a registered trademark of the Workshop for the Management of Health on Company and Employee Priority activities / Mediumto long-term targets NRI prioritizes the following issues in its management of occupational health and safety issues: 1. Complying with laws and regulations on overtime work and holidays. 2. Eliminating long hours worked consecutively. 3. Ensuring that employees working long hours get seen by the occupational health physician (OHP), and having them comply with doctorsʼ instructions. 4. Reducing the amount of night work that employees perform. 5. Pressing employees to take their paid leave, including ensuring that they are organized and disciplined about taking extended consecutive periods of leave (such as a summer break, and “recharge leave”). In addition, we set goals for the following four items on health management. 1 Reduce lifestyle-related diseases • Manage employeesʼ reservations and receipts for medical check-ups and health examinations, and encourage them to take these examinations • Put in place health management rooms at our principal offices and build a framework for industrial doctors to handle cases 2 Lower stress • Stress prevention for individual employees and teams • Develop a system to enable employees to return to work earlier 3 Lower smoking rate • Introduce support to help stop smoking • Remove smoking spaces inside the office 4 Promote work-life balance • Reduce overtime and holiday work hours • Encourage employees to take paid leave • Implement the frontline-driven Smart Work-Style Campaign (SWC) including: streamlining operations and meetings, as well as promoting early morning work Progress / Achievements / Challenges Nippon Kenko Kaigi* certified NRI as an Excellent Enterprise of Health and Productivity Management (White 500), acknowledging the Company as a large corporatins participateing superior health and productivity management. Started in fiscal 2016, this certification scheme reviews companies for their business philosophy, organizational structure, system and initiative execution, assessment and improvement, compliance and risk management. NRI acquired this certification for the second consecutive year in fiscal 2016-2018 as it met certification requirements in the Large Corporation category, which applies to large-sized corporation and medical corporations. * An entity that aimed to bring about specific action plans in the workplace and local communities, with the goal of realizing excellence on health and productivity management. This is a collaboration between municipalities and private organizations such as business groups, medical associations and the insured. KPI unit FY2014 FY2015 FY2016 FY2017 FY2018 Total working hours per employee per year hours/year 2,197.6 2,140.8 2,085.8 2,034.3 2,017.2 Average overtime hours per employees per month hours 33.0 29.8 27.2 22.0 21.5 Examination rate of regular medical examination % 100.0 100.0 100.0 100.0 100.0 Regular medical examination presence of findings rate % 42.1 43.5 45.4 70.1 67.9 Smoking rate % 18.9 18.5 17.0 15.9 15.2 Exercise habit rate % 10.9 11.5 15.9 19.0 20.7 Coverage c c c c c Note: All employees including managers, discretionary labor employees Link Files Health and Productivity Management (In Japanese only) https://www.nri.com/jp/sustainability/social/health_and_productivity_mgmt A trial run to assist health and productivity management for workers in the Marunouchi area https://www.nri.com/-/media/Corporate/en/Files/PDF/ir/library/AR2017e.pdf#page=49 56 Social Occupational Health and Safety Data ▶ Occupational health and safety Occupational health and safety policy One of the NRI Groupʼs core policies is to provide its employees with safe, sound workplace environments. We spare no effort in initiatives to manage our employeesʼ working hours, for putting in place proper workplace environments, and for managing our employeesʼ individual health. Occupational health and safety structure With the aim of achieving proper work environments, NRI has set up a Health and Safety Committee and also put in place a hygiene management system in each business division. With these arrangements we are developing proper work environments appropriate to the particular business and operating processes of each business division. Officer in charge Chief Occupational Health and Safety Officer Hidenori Anzai Senior Corporate Management Director Chief Health Officer Yasuo fukami Representative Director, Member of the Board, Senior Executive Managing Director in charge of Supervising of Corporate Administration Responsible committee Health and Safety Committee Status of labor-management consultations on occupational safety and health Through informal gatherings and group negotiations with the Nomura Research Institute Labor Union, NRI continues to engage in dialogue both regularly and irregularly on topics related to work environment and so on. Risk management on occupational health and safety A workforce of professionals in possession of high expertise is a principal management resource for the NRI Group. Should it happen that owing to an occupational health and safety issue an employee cannot exploit the full potential of their abilities in a sound workplace, the resulting drop in productivity and/or poorer quality of outcomes may impact on our delivery of the information systems that are important foundations underpinning the society, or of the consulting services that play an important part in our clientsʼ management and businesses. To avoid such a situation, NRI prioritizes the following issues in its management of occupational health and safety issues: 1. Complying with laws and regulations on overtime work and holidays. 2. Eliminating long hours worked consecutively. 3. Ensuring that employees working long hours get seen by the occupational health physician (OHP), and having them comply with doctorsʼ instructions. 4. Reducing the amount of night work that employees Perform. 5. Pressing employees to take their paid leave, including ensuring that they are organized and disciplined about taking extended consecutive periods of leave (such as a summer break, and “recharge leave”). We have mechanisms in place to accurately monitor our employeesʼ hours worked. At any time, supervisors can check online the hours that the employees in their charge are working, or the amount of leave that they have taken. In addition, managers are sent a list of employees who performed night work or holiday work the day after it has happened. Furthermore, we are grasping the risks by thoroughly conducting industrial physician interviews with long-time workers. Occupational health and safety situation unit FY2014 FY2015 FY2016 FY2017 FY2018 Number of employee work-related deaths 0 0 0 0 0 1 Number of work accidents* 1 0 2 0 2 Occupational accident frequency rate*2 0 0 0 0 0 Average overtime hours per employees per month*3 hours 33.0 29.8 27.2 22.0 21.5 Coverage c c c c c *1 Number represents the number of either fatal accidents or incidents necessitating 4 or more daysʼ leave due to a casualty accident *2 Number of lost worker injuries / number of total working hours × 1 million hours *3 All employees including managers, discretionary labor employees 57 Social Occupational Health and Safety Data ▶ Health and productivity management Overview of health management The NRI Group is comprehensively engaged in the maintenance and improvement of employee health, including the promotion of regular checkups and follow-ups on the results, engagement by industrial physicians, the establishment of consultation desks, and the reduction of overtime work. Promotion of medical checkups / comprehensive physical examinations The NRI Group regularly instructs all employees to undergo a medical examination (for those under 30 years old) or a comprehensive physical examination (for those 30 years of age or older) every year, and checks whether they have or not. In addition, employees who have engaged in overtime work exceeding the company's internal standards are instructed to undergo health checkups and medical interviews every six months, with compliance with this instruction also being checked. Establishment of office health-care rooms and engagement by industrial physicians NRI has established health-care rooms in its main offices, and has in place a proper system for industrial physicians to engage with cases. Industrial physicians check the results of employee medical examinations and comprehensive physical examinations, as well as responding to health consultations from employees. Stress checks based on the Health and Safety Act From FY2016, based on the Industrial Health and Safety Act, the NRI Group introduced a web questionnaire-type stress-check to prevent employees from becoming unwell in terms of their mental health. This has encouraged employees to notice their own stress situations and talk to an industrial physician if they need to. In addition, we collate and analyze stress-check results for each organization and use the information to improve the working environments. Moving forward, we will continue to implement the program every year in accordance with laws and regulations. Consultation desk for work problems The NRI Group has established various PraNet (Professional Assist Network) consultation desks for employees, and is equipped with a system that can respond to all kinds of issues employees may have. In addition to the consultation desks within the company, we have several company-external consultation desks available to handle a diverse range of counselling, including consultations about work and the workplace overall, consultations on career-development and skill-development, counseling on workplace stress and health, counseling on family health and care, consultations about ethics and compliance, consultations concerning harassment. Reduction of overtime and holiday work NRI has established internal management standards for working hours, late-night work, and holiday work based on labor laws, etc., and engages in proper labor management. We have established a system that enables a correct understanding of employee work status, including a system that enables supervisors to check online at any time the working hours of their subordinates and how much vacation time they have taken, and the distribution of a list of employees who engaged in late-night or holiday work to management positions on the following day. In addition, we regularly check the status of each department using indicators such as a Health Management Index, which is an index of risks such as long working hours that should be eliminated. Reduced smoking rate From November 2015, NRI introduced its Quit-Smoking Support, in which the company pays 70% of the costs for treatment to quit smoking (borne by the individual). Furthermore, NRI halved the amount of office smoking spaces in October 2015, and closed all smoking areas in its major offices around the World No Tobacco Day (May 31) in FY2016. KPI of health management unit FY2014 FY2015 FY2016 FY2017 FY2018 Examination rate of regular medical examination % 100.0 100.0 100.0 100.0 100.0 Regular medical examination presence of findings rate % 42.1 43.5 45.4 70.1 67.9 Smoking rate % 18.9 18.5 17.0 15.9 15.2 Exercise habit rate % 10.9 11.5 15.9 19.0 20.7 Coverage c c c c c ▶ Status of working hours and acquisition of annual paid leave Total working hours per employee per year unit FY2014 FY2015 FY2016 FY2017 FY2018 Total working hours per employee per year hours/year 2,197.6 2,140.8 2,085.8 2,034.3 2,017.2 Coverage c c c c c Note: All employees including managers, discretionary labor employees Average overtime hours per employees per month unit FY2014 FY2015 FY2016 FY2017 FY2018 Average overtime hours per employees per month hours 33.0 29.8 27.2 22.0 21.5 Coverage c c c c c Note: All employees including managers, discretionary labor employees Annual paid leave*1 unit FY2014 FY2015 FY2016 FY2017 FY2018 Number of granted days*2 days 21.6 21.2 21.6 21.5 21.4 Number of days acquired days 14.4 14.1 15.3 15.4 15.3 Annual paid leave acquisition rate % 66.9 66.5 70.6 71.4 71.3 Coverage c c c c c *1 Average base for all employees. *2 Excluding carryforward 58 Social Occupational Health and Safety Data ▶ Mental health measures Mental health measures As measures to safeguard mental health, in addition to reducing late-night work, eliminating continuous long working hours, a thorough system of interviews with industrial physicians for workers who work long working hours, and stress checks based on the Industrial Health and Safety Act, the following initiatives are being implemented. Establishment of consultation desks for workplace stress Employees can bring consultations about workplace stress to the health-care rooms (staffed by industrial physicians and nurses). In addition, under the health insurance association system, employees can receive counseling via telephone, website, or in person, from a professional psychological counselor (free of charge in certain circumstances). Obligatory interviews with industrial physicians for workers who work long working hours At NRI, out of consideration of the impact on the mind and body of employees whose overtime working hours exceed internal standards, any such employees are required to have an interview with an industrial physician. Stress checks Since 2016, NRI has implemented a stress check system under the provisions of Article 66, Item 10 of the Industrial Health and Safety Act for the following purposes: • For employees to deal with stress by knowing their stress status, before too much accumulates • For employees to get advice from a doctor if they have too much stress • For the company to take any work-related measures as a result of the interviews • To make improvements in workplace environments that cause stress Return to work support program When employees have been absent due to illness, etc., they are only allowed to return to work after a diagnosis by their doctor and a consultation with an industrial physician. In the case of employees who have been absent more than a set amount of time, NRI is making efforts to have them undergo re-work training that incorporates training conducted by an external professional organization to prevent any relapse, so as to avoid any further time absent from work. ▶ Various systems provided by Nomura Securities Health Insurance Association Nomura Health Dial 24 For health, medical care, nursing care, childcare, or mental health issues, experienced physicians, public health nurses, and nurses are available for free phone consultations at any time of the year, 24 hours a day. Employees can also avail themselves of a search system that finds nearby medical institutions and medical institutions that provide advanced medical care. Special medical dial When an employee or member of their family is diagnosed with a serious illness such as cancer, they are eligible for a service that provides them with a referral for a second opinion or to a specialist medical institution (free of charge in certain circumstances). Mental health counseling service They can receive counseling via telephone, website, or in person, from a professional psychological counselor (free of charge in certain circumstances). 59 Social Human Resources Development Management Approach Material issues of NRI related to this management approach “Diversity of human resources” NRI's approach to material issues As part of its corporate philosophy, the NRI Group has stated that “continuing never-ending challenges with pride of true professionals” constitutes its action guidelines for employees. The cornerstone of the NRI Group is its “human assets.” In other words, this refers to employees who are professionals possessing advanced expertise, who independently strive to pursue their own goals and are unafraid to innovate and take on difficult challenges. To achieve objectives of both NRIʼs long-term management vision Vision 2022 and the Medium-Term Management Plan, we must have human assets who not only aim to achieve further growth and improve productivity in our existing specialty areas, but who also take on challenges of venturing into unknown areas of business in anticipation of future trends. To develop such human assets, the NRI Group has been strengthening systems and the business environment for developing hidden talents of highly motivated people and allowing them to produce results on the job. The Medium-Term Management Plan 2022 approaches human resource management development as a strategic issue under five conceptual themes of the growth strategy encompassing the planʼs 1) DX (digital transformation), 2) business platform, 3) cloud, 4) global, and 5) human resources strategies. NRI will take steps to secure sufficient quality and quantity of human resources needed to help realize objectives of the digital transformation and global strategies in particular. Priority activities / Mediumto long-term targets NRIʼs personnel system is designed to ensure mechanisms and an environment in which diverse professionals are able to play active roles based on the three core pillars of its performance-based salary system, discretionary work system, and personnel assessment and human resources development system. The personnel assessment and human resources development system is premised on the notion of encouraging employees to pursue expertise and diversify their fields of specialization. This is based on the belief that by honing their skills in multiple areas of expertise employees become capable of flexibly responding to changes in the business environment in a manner that involves taking a broad-based perspective in collaborating across division lines. Furthermore, with respect to human resources development, NRI places importance on an organic fusion of three approaches to development: training programs, self-study, and on-the-job training which plays the central role. NRI believes that providing OJT through work experience is the optimal development tool. As such, its training programs act as a means of organizing knowledge acquired through such OJT and for deepening understanding. The training programs are also positioned as means of obtaining knowledge and skills which cannot be acquired through OJT. Moreover, NRI has also established a system to support self-study for employees seeking to gain qualifications and improve their foreign language skills. NRIʼs priority activities entail realizing objectives of its long-term management vision Vision 2022 and its Medium-Term Management Plan, while furthermore engaging in initiatives which place a focus on “developing core human resources” geared to the next generation along with “developing DX (Ddigital Transformation) human resources” and “developing global human resources” underpinning the growth strategy of the Medium-Term Management Plan 2022. Progress / Achievements / Challenges With respect to developing core human resources, we are enhancing our successor candidate development initiatives which involve implementing a selective development program encompassing the four employment categories of mid-career employees, managerial track employees, section managers and general managers, in addition to elements such as training programs upon career promotion tailored to stages of careers. With respect to developing DX (digital transformation) human resources, we are establishing a new training framework and accordingly enhancing recurrent education that makes it possible for employees to shift to strategic business areas, in addition to implementing our existing training programs tailored to career fields and stages of careers. With respect to developing global human resources, we implement practical training programs that incorporate real-life experience in international business with the aim of fostering global business leaders who play active roles in establishing business foundations overseas. Under such programs we dispatch employees to our corporate customersʼ or NRIʼs overseas locations for periods of about one year, where they improve their business skills through practical experience overseas. As of FY2018, more than 300 employees have been selected for this global training and have been dispatched to 26 cities in 16 countries. Link Files Education system for nurturing human resources (In Japanese only) https://working.nri.co.jp/2019/contents/institution/institution_a.html Evaluation system making full use of human resources (In Japanese only) https://working.nri.co.jp/2019/contents/institution/institution_b.html NRI's Human Resources Strategy https://www.nri.com/-/media/Corporate/en/Files/PDF/ir/library/AR2018e.pdf#page=54 60 Social Human Resources Development Data ▶ Human resources development management Human resources development policy (Focus areas) We regard our people as an essential management resource of the NRI Group and a wellspring of its added value across the board. The NRI Groupʼs approach to human resources development entails drawing out talents of ambitious employees and cultivating human assets that are capable of producing results on the job. Meanwhile, professional initiatives of NRI Group employees are backed by the Groupʼs human resources development framework. NRIʼs personnel system is designed to ensure mechanisms and an environment in which diverse professionals are able to play active roles based on the three core pillars of its performance-based salary system, discretionary work system, and personnel assessment and human resources development system. Of particular importance with respect to human resources development is the notion of organically fusing various aspects of the three elements: 1) on-the-job training, 2) training programs, and 3) self-study. The lack of any one of those three elements would render it impossible for an employee to achieve growth as a professional. As such, those three elements combined form the cornerstone of professional development. Of the three elements, OJT provided through work experience is the optimal development tool. As such, NRIʼs training programs act as a means of organizing knowledge acquired through such OJT and for deepening understanding. The training programs are also positioned as means of obtaining knowledge and skills which cannot be acquired through OJT. Our C&A (Challenge & Act) System acts as a mechanism that effectively facilitates OJT. Through the system employees are able to confirm and evaluate the extent to which they have achieved their individual targets which are precisely set at half-year intervals through interviews with their supervisors, thereby enabling employees to develop their skills and appropriately gain access to performance evaluations carried out by their supervisors. This supports the growth of employees according to their respective characters and levels of independence by having them work toward achieving their goals under a supervisorʼs guidance, while also facilitating communication between supervisors and their subordinates at the regularly scheduled meetings. The notion of developing human resources who are capable of rapidly addressing changes is crucial in the VUCA (volatility, uncertainty, complexity, ambiguity) and DX (Digital Transformation) eras. As such, we encourage employees to pursue expertise and diversify their fields of specialization in order to ensure that our personnel assessment and human resources development system functions effectively. This is based on the belief that by honing their skills in multiple areas of expertise employees become capable of flexibly responding to changes in the business environment in a manner that involves taking a broad-based perspective in collaborating across division lines and spearheading joint development with our customers. We have a career field system and an in-house certification system which both constitute crucial aspects of our efforts to promote human resources development. Human resource development program In addition to various forms of group training, our human resources development programs feature many options that i nclude e-learning, support for gaining qualifications and foreign language study, opportunities to study abroad, researcher dispatch, and trainee arrangements. To achieve our long-term management vision Vision 2022, we are particularly focusing our efforts on: 1) developing core human resources, 2) developing DX (Digital Transformation) human resources, and 3) developing global human resources. 1) As for developing core human resources, we implement programs to develop core human resources responsible for growth and business creation of the NRI Group, which mainly involves developing executive candidates, developing capacity of operational management, and developing the ability to create new businesses. Our selective training for senior management aims to broaden our pipeline of executive candidates with our sights set on the next stage of our long-term management vision Vision 2022. To such ends, the training enlists a curriculum that extensively delves into studies of fundamental knowledge necessary for management personnel. Meanwhile, the curriculum also entails studies departing from a business perspective centered on profit and loss, with respect to maximizing value by coordinating business segments and optimizing company-wide operations, and also enlists a managerial perspective such that includes striking a balance between the balance sheet and P&L, and multi-stakeholder engagement. It also entails performing assessments geared to enabling individuals to develop their abilities. Our selective training for mid-career employees encompasses studies of sophisticated managerial knowledge and the business creation process, thereby departing from career development in terms of practical aspects of business, and also entails offering programs that include leadership in the DX era which is a key element of the growth strategy under the long-term management vision Vision 2022, and cross-industry exchange that is cognizant of human resources capable of spearheading joint development with our customers. 2) As for developing DX (digital transformation) human resources, we implement programs geared to developing talent that accelerates our DX strategy, which constitutes one of the growth strategies under our long-term management vision Vision 2022. This involves establishing venues for studying not only information technology skills but also astute business insights drawing on the latest business use cases with the aim of enhancing capabilities required in the DX era, particularly with respect to AI and analytics, block chain technology, user experience (UX) design, as well as agile software development and microservices. We lend our support to efforts that include creating forums for our employees conducive to person-to-person networking and activity, which involves establishing venues for sophisticated studies by coordinating with Japanese and overseas universities as well as outside entities such as the Japan Data Scientist Society. We are also mounting a strategic transition to adopting a human resources portfolio approach, which is an aim of NRI in the DX era. This involves implementing reskill education whereby consultants and system engineers who are equipped with conventional abilities extend their fields of activity to the DX realm drawing on their existing skills. 3) As for developing our global human resources, we implement programs geared to developing business leaders who are capable of playing active roles on the global stage. In that regard, we are focusing our efforts particularly on our overseas training system under which we send our employees to overseas locations of our corporate customers who operate globally for periods of about one year, thereby enabling such employees to gain first-hand experience in global business. We also offer overseas study programs in order to expose employees to a wide range of teachings and insights, while enabling them to gain sophisticated professional skills. Under such programs, employees learn about international standards of corporate management by acquiring MBA degrees at overseas business schools. Opportunities to earn degrees are also popular, particularly those in computer science (MSE and MCS) and legal affairs (LLM). Moreover, under our system of short-term training abroad and overseas foreign language study, we send employees to overseas business schools and training institutions so that they can acquire skills necessary for global business. We also implement training in English that involves study of project management and data science in China and India. 61 Social Human Resources Development Data Self-study Given the notion that self-study is an essential aspect of an employeeʼs career development as a professional, we furnish various recommendations in that regard with consideration placed on aspects of personnel affairs and other such factors. For special qualifications that are closely related to NRIʼs business including those for information processing engineers, project management professionals (PMP) and certified securities analysts, we implement test-preparation courses for employees and provide financial assistance to help cover the costs of taking courses externally. We also provide reimbursement and financial assistance to help cover registration costs and examination fees with respect to gaining official qualifications that contribute to our business operations, including certified public accountant and small and medium enterprise management consultant qualifications. We are also enhancing our support for qualifications related to DX (digital transformation), including those in areas such as statistics, data science, artificial intelligence, cloud computing, and agile software development. As for foreign languages, we carry out Test of English for International Communication (TOEIC) testing for employees and provide financial assistance to help cover costs of courses at language schools. We are also focusing on efforts in the realm of self-study making use of massive open online courses (MOOCs) such as Cousera, Udemy and Gacco in line with the growing popularity of digital learning. It is also crucial that we shift to new digital learning approaches in conjunction with progress being made in carrying out work-style reforms. As such, in addition to making use of MOOCs, we are promoting various reforms with respect to styles of learning in terms of shifting to digital learning environments, shifting to digital communications related to studies, and establishing educational platforms transcending time and space. References Evaluation system making full use of human resources (In Japanese o https://working.nri.co.jp/2019/contents/institution/institution_b.html NRI's Human Resources Strategy https://www.nri.com/-/media/Corporate/en/Files/PDF/ir/library/AR2018e.pdf#page=54 62 Social Human Resources Development Data ▶ Human resources development program Human resources development program 1 NRI has established 22 career fields with the industry-wide Information Technology Skill Standards (ITSS) in mind in order to better make areas and levels of employee expertise clear in-house and outside the company, commensurate with the actual performance of its employees. In so doing, we have defined seven respective levels of employee expertise. This system acts as a blueprint for employees to better understand their areas and levels of expertise so that they are able to make improvements when pursuing specializations. It also forms the basis for the C&A (Challenge and Act) system for setting goals and confirming results on a semi-annual basis. Under the system, employees are encouraged to develop their abilities upon having set goals in multiple career fields. Although it is important that employees pursue a single area of expertise, we believe that by developing employees who have multiple areas of expertise employees will result in a situation of employees maintaining a broader perspective, more flexibly responding to changes in the business environment, collaborating across division lines, and spearheading joint development with our customers. [Career fields] 1 Corporate Strategy Consultant 12 IT Platform Specialist 2 Business Consultant 13 IT Services Manager 3 Systems Consultant 14 Security Specialist 4 Business Strategist 15 Researcher 5 Sales Representative / Marketing Manager 16 Data Scientist 6 Project Manager (Development) 17 Project Management Specialist 7 Project Manager (Enhancement) 18 Quality Control Specialist 8 Application Architect 19 Business Administration Staff 9 IT Infrastructure Architect 20 Corporate Management / Headquarters Staff 10 Application specialist 21 Systems Engineer 11 Common Application Infrastructure Special 22 Consultant Internal certification system Through the granting of internal certification (NRI Certification) to employees with high levels of expertise who have refined their skills in career fields, NRI offers professional role models while also promoting the development of core NRI human resources in those fields. NRI has established seven certifications in 16 areas and employees are able to gain multiple certifications. Twice a year, examinations are held to select suitable NRI professional role models based on capability criteria and business performance. Candidates for the role models receive OJT through appropriate job assignment and curriculum based training matched to the requirements of each certification. [Internal certification system] Certified Certified Business Data Scientist Planning Developer （CDS） proposal （CBD） ①Business Certified Certified Project creation Business Manager Target process range ②Customer Analyst （CPM） development （CBA） practical ①New development project business Certified Application Engineer ②Enhancement ①Application specialist （CAE） project ②Application architect ③Common application infrastructure specialist System Certified IT Architect (CITA） ①Technology platform leader ②Core engineer ③Advanced engineer Basic ④Technology Foundation Strategist technology Certified IT Service Manager（CISM） ①IT service design ②IT service implementation Operation ③IT service operation Business creation Data System design System operation Project Proposal / Consulting Customer analytics System System Management Systematization plan development development maintenance Business process 63 Social Human Resources Development Data Training program NRIʼs training programs implemented company-wide are largely divided into two categories̶employment hierarchy-specific training programs and career-specific training programs. The employment hierarchy-specific training programs feature content encompassing curriculum tailored to positions of employment, support for empowering female employees, and career development of longtime employees. Such content also includes the selective managerial human resources development initiatives in addition to curriculum geared to specific levels in the employment and executive hierarchies. The career-specific training programs feature content that aligns with NRIʼs various systems for developing its human resources. We also offer a variety of training programs to meet diverse employee needs, such that are particularly mindful with respect to developing abilities on an individual basis in a manner tailored to respective career fields and facilitating career development with sights set on employees gaining our in-house certifications. Moreover, we are stepping up efforts for developing Digital Transformation (DX) human resources and developing global human resources, such that constitute a key aspect of human resources development under our long-term management vision Vision 2022. In addition to its company-wide training programs, NRIʼs respective business divisions also develop and implement training programs of their own. We have accordingly established a robust training and development framework encompassing the business and operating processes of each business division. [NRI Training Program] Business impacts NRI is working to expand its pool of employees who promote its strategic fields of business. To such ends, we draw our employeesʼ attention to human resource profiles that align with NRIʼs growth strategy under its long-term management vision Vision 2022, and accordingly direct employees to careers and employee development programs in that regard. Moreover, by giving greater visibility to human resource development realities and changes over time, we can better formulate long-term human resource strategies, assess our human resource portfolio and develop employees with sophisticated expertise over the short term. Target employee All employees 64 Social Human Resources Development Data Human resources development program 2 Stratified program The NRI Group implements various training programs geared to specific stages of careers. We are also focusing our efforts on systematically developing executive candidates. This involves implementing training programs upon career promotion or job appointment, and implementing selective training programs at respective levels of the employment hierarchy, from the level of mid-career employee to that of executive officer. Furthermore, we are also focusing our efforts on initiatives to support diversity. This involves raising awareness of employees through diversity and inclusion seminars and carrying out educational campaigns, in addition to selective programs for female employees specific to respective levels of the employment hierarchy. We also implement career planning workshops that help our longtime employees continue to excel on the job. Management Human Resource Development Program NRI implements programs to develop its core human resources responsible for the NRI Groupʼs growth strategy and business creation. The curriculum of these development programs consists mainly of three elements: 1) courses aiming to develop executive candidates, 2) courses aiming to develop proficiency with respect to managing business drawing on a managerial point of view and a company-wide perspective, and 3) courses aiming to develop the ability to create new businesses. Our selective training for senior management, particularly that involving courses aiming to develop executive candidates, aims to broaden our pipeline of executive candidates with our sights set on the next stage of our long-term management vision Vision 2022. To such ends, the training enlists a curriculum that extensively delves into studies of fundamental knowledge necessary for management personnel. Meanwhile, the curriculum also involves studies departing from a business perspective centered on profit and loss, with respect to maximizing value by coordinating business segments and optimizing company-wide operations. It also enlists a managerial perspective such that entails striking a balance between the balance sheet and P&L, and multi-stakeholder engagement. Moreover, those selected for the program from among senior management, including executive officers, enroll in an outside business school (Nomura School of Advanced Management) supported by NRI where they work to gain managerial competency by diligently applying themselves in conjunction with other students sent by companies exemplifying Japan. The selective training for mid-career employees entails studies of sophisticated managerial knowledge and the business creation process, thereby departing from career development in terms of practical aspects of business. It also entails offering programs that include leadership in the DX (digital transformation) era which is a key element of the growth strategy under the long-term management vision Vision 2022, and cross-industry exchange that is cognizant of human resources capable of spearheading joint development with our customers. Participants who are selected from among NRIʼs managerial track employees, mid-career employees and others at respective levels of the employment hierarchy engage in group training, personal work assignments, workshops and other such program activities in hopes that they will pinpoint challenges relating to NRIʼs management and business operations, and accordingly propose and implement solutions in that regard. [Stratified program] Management human resource Level and position‐specific training development Active women, diversity Others Executive Officer Executive study Training Business Diversity & Inclusion Officer New officer sessions school Female officer training dispatch for selection training managers Director selection New derector Senior training Seminar training management Short-term business Training to support both work and childcare training Section manager Women's New manager selection training Leadership School training Manager Female employee network salon Training for school dispatch Managerial fourth Female manager year training existing Selection training training seminar managers for managers Cross-industry Career plan workshop Training at Life plan seminar managerial promotion Group training when joining a exchange training Selection training Female leader Chief promotion training for mid-career development Mid-level program Deputy chief promotion training company Professional New promotion training Talent Human resource development program for Digital Transformation NRI implements programs geared to developing talent that accelerates its DX (Digital Ttransformation) strategy, which is one of the growth strategies under its long-term management vision Vision 2022. Accordingly, we have arranged training programs that help employees gain DX skills transcending years of service at NRI in addition to our conventional training specific to an employeeʼs years of service since joining the company. The aim of such training programs is to enhance capabilities of employees required in the DX era, particularly with respect to AI, analytics, block chain technology, user experience (UX) design, as well as agile software development and microservices. The training programs provide rich learning environments complete with diverse curricula extending beyond fundamental knowledge and IT skills, designed so that participants are able to share practical expertise, the latest business use cases, profound insights typical of NRI and astute business insights. These programs support efforts that include creating forums for our employees conducive to person-to-person networking and activity. To such ends, the programs draw on numerous academic findings and forward-looking case studies, and establish venues for sophisticated studies by actively coordinating with Japanese and overseas universities, outside entities such as the Japan Data Scientist Society, and corporations. Meanwhile, the programs are set up to provide participants with chances to acquire a greater range of highly effective skills through course curriculum designed and planned around the notion of ensuring opportunities for learning, participating, connecting, and playing active roles. We are also mounting a strategic transition to a human resources portfolio approach, which is an aim of NRI in the DX era. This involves implementing reskill education whereby consultants and system engineers who are equipped with conventional abilities extend their fields of activity to the DX realm drawing on their existing skills. 65 Social Human Resources Development Data Human resource development program for Digital Transformation [New human resource image for Digital Transformation] Leverage our experiences and put them to work in driving ”DX” Business Business Understand the customer Understand the “business“ customer's “business” Deepen management and Insight into the business strategies Digital Society Run parallel to and Contribute innovation To “DX” Technology Engineering Technology Engineering “Ability to apply” to reform Learn the tip area Create unprecedented “Ability to create” optimally by grasping and find business seeds value with advanced large-scale, complex from the outside ideas and mechanisms technological trends and high-quality and latest technological Excavation, Concept and system solutions eye-catching implementation understanding Plus Management Digital Leadership Maximize in-house potential QCD and risk management Transformation Leading other companies' The power to collaboration complete the project Value with certainty co-creation Conventional DNA of NRI Digital Transformation [Human resource development program for Digital Transformation] Add “DX” skills according to individual's career and intention ︵ ︵ Knowledge and Insight Co-creation leadership Business consulting knowledge System consulting knowledge Digital marketing UX Design /Design conception Agile software development Micro service /API Cloud /PCI DS /Analytics /AI Block chain Security Knowledge ︶ ︶ ・Share the “business insights” cultivated in Traditional career and Next IP Next IP practice by leading experts in the company and Insight ・In addition to hard-skilled expertise, professional software skills are handed down at a small salon Implementation Implementation know-how and use case Plus know-how ・Find out the details of business cases with Digital depth and breadth that cannot be obtained and use case Transformation from articles and magazines skills training tailored to the year ・I feel real practical know-how at that moment from a business person inside and BIT basic course outside the company Skills, External collaboration curriculum Knowledge （Industry-academia collaboration / Participation in industry groups） Skills, Knowledge and Frame and frame Self-improvement curriculum（MOOC / qualification acquisition） ・A wide range of curriculums, from young to veteran, to re-learn the basic skills of moving Engineering hands Management Business Technology + Consumer + Art／Design ＋Science ・Top-level inputs for science academia, such + Leadership ＋Agile software as the University of Tokyo ＋Community development + Academia [Providing four opportunities for Digital Transformation human resource growth] Add the essence of surviving the DX era in the learning field. Maximize opportunities for “self-learning” Opportunities for achievement Opportunity to Opportunity for participate connect Increase NRI's presence while leading to your own growth As an expert, contribute to the Strengthening individual development of backwards strength by forming and learn by themselves an internal network Opportunities for learning Get a learning opportunity for each person to challenge a new field 1. Opportunities for learning 2. Opportunity to participate 3. Opportunity for connect 4. Opportunities for achievement  In addition to simple skills and case  Opportunities for in-house and external  Participated in the planning of  External activities through active studies, NRI will offer advanced training, as a professor / lecturer / employee training as a member of an information dissemination such as knowledge sharing and training to lecturer to industry-academia expert meeting, and linked with the external lectures, newspaper articles / learn unique insights collaborative universities, and for intern in-house Center-of-Excellence Web articles  We also offer courses that give the students  Understand what kind of human  Active as a board member or member degree of freedom so that you can  From the NRI number one, build the resources and projects are there and of an industry association to build a learn at your own pace depending on industry's number one knowledge, use them as the basis for connection to the industry the situation of each person, and develop high-quality content, and lead collaboration  Aiming to improve NRI's presence basics so that even inexperienced the development that is really necessary  It will be a place to find talented through external activities, increase own people and veterans can easily tackle with the on-site skin sensation personnel, and it will be possible to name value, and self-growth  Coursera, University course, Promote  Get more learning through opportunities search for candidates for certification self-studying by acquiring to teach others and job assignments. qualifications 66 Social Human Resources Development Data Global Human Resources Development Program NRI implements many overseas programs geared to developing business leaders who are capable of playing active roles on the global stage. In that regard, we are particularly focusing our efforts on our overseas training system whereby we send our employees to overseas locations of our corporate customers who operate globally for periods of about one year, thereby enabling such employees to gain first-hand experience of global business. Meanwhile, we also offer overseas study programs in order to expose employees to a wide range of teachings and insights, while enabling them to gain sophisticated professional skills. Under such programs, employees learn about international standards of corporate management by acquiring MBA degrees at overseas business schools. Opportunities to earn degrees are also popular, particularly those in computer science (MSE and MCS) and legal affairs (LLM). Moreover, under our system of short-term training abroad and overseas foreign language study, we send employees to overseas business schools and training institutions so that they can acquire skills necessary for global business. We also implement training in English that involves study of project management and data science in China and India. Business impacts We are promoting the expansion of human resources promoting strategic fields by showing employees the image of personnel, careers, and development programs in line with the growth strategy of NRI's long-term management vision “Vision 2022”. In addition to recruitment as a measure of human resources and resource strategy of the new medium-term management plan 2022, employee skill conversion is mentioned and promotes the riskill to employees who can handle DX strategy. With regard to the three core issues of core human resource development, approximately 190 department managers since 2002, and approximately 90 section managers after the 2015 revision, have completed the selective development program, and have strengthened the pipeline of successor candidates. In “DX Human Resources Development,” we are strengthening strategic capabilities such as AI, analytics, blockchain and agile, and promoting the realization of growth strategies by shifting personnel to strategic priority areas. In “Global Human Resources Development,” we are promoting the expansion of NRI's global businesses by fostering global business leaders. Target employee Senior and middle management ▶ Inputs for human resources development Human resources development investment cost unit FY2014 FY2015 FY2016 FY2017 FY2018 Total human resources investment cost millions of yen 3,528 3,372 3,365 3,448 3,632 Coverage a a a a a Human resource development capacity development thousands of yen 521 486 475 466 477 investment cost per employee Coverage c c c c c Personnel development capacity development period per employee Hour / person 57 54 47 45 52 Coverage* c' c' c' c' c' * c':NRI employees engaged in Japan and overseas ▶ Effect of human resources development Measures of the effect of human resources development NRI places importance on the number of employees with professional qualifications as an index for objectively assessing investment efficiency in development of individuals with highly advanced professional skills. Number of employees who acquired the professional qualifications unit FY2014 FY2015 FY2016 FY2017 FY2018 Information processing engineer (IT strategist) no. of person 246 279 305 328 354 Information processing engineer (System architect) no. of person 848 876 903 949 974 Information processing engineer (Project manager) no. of person 693 743 814 869 909 Information processing engineer (Network specialist) no. of person 886 909 939 955 975 Information processing engineer (Database specialist) no. of person 689 743 789 843 879 Information processing engineer (Embedded system specialist) no. of person 33 37 40 48 50 Information processing engineer (Information security specialist) no. of person 951 1,093 1,218 1,202 1,185 Information processing engineer (IT service manager) no. of person 341 360 388 409 413 Information processing engineer (System audit engineer) no. of person 317 333 342 354 360 Registered Information Security Specialist*1 (Successful candidates) no. of person 108 242 Project Management Professional no. of person 213 230 255 292 299 ITIL Manager / Expert / Intermediate no. of person 53 63 70 70 70 Chartered Member of the Securities Analysts Association of Japan no. of person 224 228 242 245 245 Certified Public Accountant Small and Medium sized no. of person 8 10 9 9 16 Enterprise Consultant no. of person 37 42 45 46 46 First-class Registered Architect no. of person 12 12 11 10 10 Chief Telecommunications Engineer no. of person 118 114 110 107 107 Number of employees who acquired NRI certification system Certified Business Developer no. of person 24 25 24 18 15 Certified Business Analyst no. of person 24 23 26 23 22 Certified Data Scientist*2 no. of person 7 14 3 Certified Application Engineer* no. of person 7 16 19 23 Certified IT architect no. of person 76 70 67 65 69 Certified IT Service Manager no. of person 27 27 28 30 33 Certified Project Manager no. of person 95 100 96 94 93 Coverage c c c c c Note: As of the end of each fiscal year. *1 Examination started in April 2017. *2 Certification started in October 2017 *3 Certification started in October 2015 67 Social Business and Human Rights Management Approach Material issues of NRI related to this management approach “Respect for human rights” and “Dialogue with civil society” NRI's approach to material issues As stated in the NRI Group's Human Rights Policy, the NRI Group supports and respects international norms concerning human rights and labor, such as the International Bill of Human Rights, the ILO Declaration on Fundamental Principles and Rights at Work, and the Guiding Principles on Business and Human Rights. In particular, NRI has formalized and clarified an agenda on respect for basic labor rights and the prohibition of forced labor, child labor, discrimination, and harassment. Furthermore, the NRI Group has, in its NRI Group Procurement Policy, stated that it will engage in procurement that takes human rights into account in transactions with its business partners, including outside contractors and suppliers. In addition, NRI joined the United Nations Global Compact in May 2017, in support of the ten principles in the four areas of human rights, labor, environment and anti-corruption. Based on our own commitment from top management, NRI is committed to acting as a good member of society and striving to achieve sustainable growth by observing and practicing the ten principles and demonstrating responsible creative leadership. Priority activities / Mediumto long-term targets As one of the growth strategies in the long-term management vision 'Vision 2022', NRI upholds 'Dramatic expansion of globalization', and positioned the overseas human rights issue as critical business challenge. Currently, we are planning to identify human rights risk and implement human rights due diligence in FY 2019. Progress / Achievements / Challenges In FY 2018, We started to conduct human rights due diligence in Sustainability & Responsibility Committee. Link Files The NRI Group's Human Rights Policy https://www.nri.com/en/sustainability/social/policies#human-rights NRI Group Procurement Policy https://www.nri.com/en/company/partner 68 Social Business and Human Rights Data ▶ Business and human rights policy Human rights policy The NRI Group has established the NRI Group Policy on Human Rights, and accordingly adheres to international standards of human rights including the International Bill of Human Rights, The International Labour Organizationʼs Declaration on Fundamental Principles and Rights at Work, and The Ten Principles of the United Nations Global Compact. Moreover, NRI also engages in procurement activities in a manner that places due consideration on human rights, and likewise calls for its business partners to engage in business activities in such a manner, as is stipulated under “Respecting ESG” in the NRI Group Procurement Policy. Applicable scope NRI Group and business partners such as outside contractors and suppliers References The NRI Group's Human Rights Policy https://www.nri.com/en/sustainability/social/policies#human-rights NRI Group Procurement Policy https://www.nri.com/en/company/partner ▶ Business and human rights management Chief officer in charge of human rights Senior Corporate Managing Director of NRI Responsible committee Human Rights Education Committee Involvement of the Board of Directors with respect to human rights (reporting, deliberation, director evaluation, reflection in remuneration) Human Rights Education Committee reports on the policies and status of activities once every six months to the Board of Directors. In addition, any issue that requires the approval of the Board of Directors shall be properly deliberated by the Board of Directors before a decision is made. Education and awareness With respect to NRI Group employees, the NRI Group Employeesʼ Code of Business Conduct state that, in order to create a staff-friendly workplace, everyone's personality and individuality is to be respected, and that no speech or behavior that violates human rights is to take place. These rules are made known through the guidance in the Rule Book: Fundamental Rules for Executive Officers and General Staff which is reviewed annually. In addition, these points are brought up during training for each hierarchy level or executive training, refreshing the relevant awareness. In the event of any speech or behavior that violates human rights, the facts of the situation are investigated, after which the relevant employee is disciplined, if necessary, for the compliance violation. We regularly provide temporary employees with Fundamental Rules to be Observed when Working at the NRI Group (for Temporary Employees), and explain that human rights are to be respected and that discriminatory speech and behavior are prohibited. All division heads in NRI Group companies are appointed as promotion members of the Human Rights Education Committee. In addition, division heads are given and made aware of their responsibility to create staff-friendly workplaces where everyone's human rights are respected. ▶ Freedom of association and the right to collective bargaining Dialogue with labor union NRI has a union shop contract with the Nomura Research Institute Labor Union. Through collective bargaining and informal meetings, NRI frequently discusses various issues with the union, including financial benefits and aspects involving human resources management and the work environment. Findings from the annual survey of employeesʼ attitudes conducted by the Union as well as the issues that have come to light in deliberations at the Union branch meetings and seminars are reported to NRIʼs executive management so as to inform its drafting of HR policies. unit FY2014 FY2015 FY2016 FY2017 FY2018 Number of labor union members*1 no. of person 3,701 3,709 3,773 3,656 3,579 Rate of unionization*2 % 100 100 100 100 100 Coverage*2 d d d d d *1 As of the beginning of following fiscal year. *2 Rate of unionization is the ratio to the target employee. (NRI adopts the union shop system) 69 Social Business and Human Rights Data ▶ Human rights due diligence Identification process of human rights risks The NRI Group will promote activities for the protection, respect and redress of human rights as a company based on international norms such as the International Human Rights Code and the ILO Core Labor Standards and the Guiding Principles on Business and Human Rights. Up to now Going forward Revise Group policies on • Ongoing training for management and Clarification and human rights employees Communicate information internally and deployment of Translate into the actions of • externally about human rights-related activities human rights individuals • Explain human rights policies to business Revise the Group Code of partners, request their participation in human policies rights activities, etc. Conduct Assessments of human • Full-scale implementation of human rights impact rights-related risk by country assessments Human rights (potential risk) • Addressing and monitoring specified negative effects Due Diligence Conduct in advance human • Publish reports on assessments and what was rights due diligence done to address negative effects (overseas partners) Establish structures to • Establish structures and decision-making Remedy / address human rights processes to address human rights (Human Rights Education • Establish grievance mechanisms Remediation, relief, Committee, Human Rights • Revise human rights initiatives on an ongoing basis, and respond flexibly according to and rectification Team of Sustainability & circumstances Responsibility Committee, etc.) Implementation of human rights due diligence based on the UN Guiding Principles NRI Group has established a framework for conducting human rights due diligence, in accordance with the procedures outlined in the UN Guiding Principles for Business and Human Rights. 1. Human Rights Due Diligence Cycle  Use report forms and  Review human rights issues from other methods to report the perspective of the NRI Group assessment results and according to world and business Publish Identify response status circumstances assessment human  Submit the required results, etc. rights issues statements, such as for Australiaʼs Modern Slavery  Human rights risk assessments Act  Human rights impact Ongoing Human rights risk assessments  Ongoing follow-up monitoring (conducted particularly in assessments assessments of response regions likely to be high risk) status, and additional Responses  Dialogue with stakeholders responses as needed to assessment results  Specific initiatives to mitigate risks and reduce negative effects based on assessment results 2. Human Rights Risk Assessment NRI Group conducted Human Rights Risk Assessment in collaboration with Verisk Maplecroft*1 and Caux Round Table Japan*2, which provide globally generally accepted human rights risk assessment methods, and identified the potential human rights risks that NRI Groupʼs business activities may have on human rights. In accordance with the industry classification of Verisk Maplecroft, this human rights risk assessment covers the software & IT services industry to which the IT service business, the main business of the NRI group, belongs, and the professional services industry to which the consulting business belongs. The report also covers all 37 countries where NRI, consolidated subsidiaries and Tier 1 suppliers are located, and has identified potential human rights risks that these industries could cause in the covered areas. With regard to 10 human rights risk indices which selected based on their alignment to the International Labour Organisation (ILO) core labour conventions and relevance to the industries analysed, human rights risks are evaluated with a score of 0 to 10 points and are classified into four risk levels (extreme risk, high risk, medium risk, low risk). *1 Verisk Maplecroft is a leading global risk analytics, research and strategic forecasting company. It provides databased solutions and advice on political, human rights, economic and environmental risks to organizational resilience and sustainable procurement. *2 Caux Round Table is a global network of business leaders aimed at ensuring business contributes to a more free, fair and transparent i t Scope of the assessment Business activities Software & IT Services Industry: IT service business (Financial IT Solutions, Industrial IT Solutions, IT Platform Services) Professional Services Industry: Countries and areas Australia, Brazil, Canada, China, Denmark, Dominican Republic, France, Germany, India, Indonesia, Ireland, Italy, Japan, Luxembourg, Malaysia, Mexico, Micronesia, Mongolia, Netherland, New Zealand, Norway, Panama, Philippines, Romania, Russia, Singapore, South Africa, South Korea, Sri Lanka, Sweden, Switzerland, Taiwan, Thailand, USE, UK, USA, Vietnam Human Rights Indices Child labour, Decent wages, Decent working time, Discrimination in the workplace, Modern slavery, Occupational health and safety, Right to privacy, Freedom association and collective bargaining, Indigenous Peoples rights, Land property and housing 70 Social Business and Human Rights Data Identified Human Rights Risks Right to privacy ・It was identiﬁed as extreme risk in 8 countries/regions and high risk in 8 countries/regions as human rights risk related to Software & IT Services Industries. ・ It was identiﬁed as “high risk” in 4 countries/regions as human rights risk related to Professional Services Industry. (Major stakeholder groups related: customers, communities) Decent wages ・It was identiﬁed as high risk in 14 countries/regions as human rights risk related to Software & IT Services Industries. (Major stakeholder groups related: Employees, Suppliersʼ employees) Decent working time ・ It was identiﬁed as “high risk” in 5 countries/regions as human rights risk related to Professional Services Industry. (Major stakeholder groups related: Employees, Suppliersʼ employees) In the future, based on the identified human rights risks, NRI will carry out human rights impact assessments that analyze and evaluate the impacts of NRI Group's business activities on human rights of stakeholders, and work to prevent and mitigate to human rights risks. ▶ Response to consultation and report on human rights System for responding to consultations and reports for employees, temporary employees and partner company employees For NRI Group employees, temporary employees, and partner company employees, in the unlikely event that their own human rights or those of someone else have been compromised, or if they notice there may be the risk of the same, there are both internal and external reporting desks available, the contact details for which can be checked on the intranet at any time. In addition, we make efforts to inform employees of the existence of these reporting desks by including the information in their training when they join the company and also in the annually distributed booklet entitled NRI Group Rule Book: Fundamental Rules for Executive Officers and General Staff.” Furthermore, temporary employees and employees from partner companies who work at NRI Group offices (outside contractors) are provided with an explanation and materials indicating that there is a reporting desk when they first start work. With respect to consultations and reports, we promptly investigate the facts and take measures to handle situations and prevent their recurrence. ・Corporate philosophy ・Corporate conduct President and CEO principle (Chief Ethics Officer) ・Business conduct standard report Compliance ・Important rules Hotline Compliance Officer (Internal and external insider Integrated risk reporting system) management meeting Compliance meeting Headquarters organization Disciplinary Review Board Compliance Committee Integrated risk management department Division report ・Comprehensive risk assessment manager/ ・Total aggregation of important rule General monitoring results manager Office Risk management department ・Risk manifestation monitoring ・Risk reduction measures Temporary Employee ・Critical rule monitoring staff Applicable scope NRI Group employees, temporary staff, partner companies (outside contractors) employees System for responding to external consultations and reports (suppliers, local communities, other) We have not established a dedicated desk for human rights complaints coming from outside the NRI Group. However, the switchboard telephone numbers and email addresses accepting general inquiries are publicly available, and the Public Relations Department of each company acts a liaison, with the relevant division providing the appropriate response. Applicable scope All stakeholders except NRI Group employees, temporary staff, partner companies (outside contractors) employees 71 Social Business and Human Rights Data ▶ Engagement on human rights Stakeholder dialogue Every year NRI holds dialogues with experts and strives to grasp ESG risks including human rights risk related to the business activities of the NRI Group. In FY 2017, we held dialogues with distinguished experts on human rights and ESG investors in London and Tokyo. In this dialogue, NRI was pointed out human rights risks to consider, such as digital rights, workers' rights, discrimination on gender or nationality, supply chain human rights, and community impacts. NRI intend to identify specific human rights risks, evaluate and respond to them. Reference Stakeholder Dialogues https://www.nri.com/en/sustainability/management/dialogue Multi stakeholder engagement Since fiscal 2012 we have taken part in the Stakeholders Engagement Program (Human Rights Due Diligence Workshop) organized by the Caux Round Table Japan. We are committed to keeping ourselves informed on human rights issues through dialogues with multi-stakeholders including companies, NGOs and NPOs, and industry and academic experts. Issues raised Key human rights issues for the ICT sector (extract) • The potential for employees to work long hours and / or unpaid overtime when working on developing information systems • The potential threat from service shutdowns to usersʼ activities and daily lives • The potential for damage to peopleʼs privacy from personal data breaches • The potential for damage to peopleʼs personal rights from malicious websites and / or information and communications technologies (ICT) • The risk of being unable to resist state demands to hand over personal information • The potential risk in overseas business activities of bribery and corruption involving government officials • Environmentally sensitive usage of energy and water • Exerting a positive influence on improving peopleʼs lives by bridging the information divide between communities References 2018 Stakeholder Engagement Program in Japan (In Japanese only) http://crt-japan.jp/portfolio/she-program/ 2018 Human Rights Due Diligence Workshop (Stakeholder Engagement Programme) http://crt-japan.jp/files2018/SHE/Report%20of%20Stakeholder%20Engagement%20Program%20in%20EN.pdf 72 Social Corporate Citizenship Data ▶ Corporate citizenship policy Corporate citizenship policy As a member of stakeholders in the community or society, we are responsible for contributing to the development of the community and society by utilizing our resources of human, technologies, or finance. NRI considers our business activities and social contribution activities as an integrated activity to realize the corporate philosophy of Dream up the future . And priority areas of social contribution activities are personal development, social development, and information publishing. References NRI Student Essay Contest (In Japanese only) https://www.nri.com/jp/news/event/lst/cc/sustainability/contest Career education program (In Japanese only) https://www.nri.com/jp/sustainability/edu Efforts of NRI Group toward reconstruction from the Great East Japan Earthquake (In Japanese only) https://www.nri.com/jp/act311 ▶ Focus areas of corporate citizenship activities Focus areas of corporate citizenship activities 1 Human resources development for next generation Relevance to business Developing personnel assuming the next generation is an activity where we can leverage rich professional resources in NRI, and at the same time the integral activity embodying Dream up the future , NRI's corporate philosophy. In order to realize the NRI Groupʼs corporate philosophy of Dream up the future, NRI believes it will be important to provide training for our young people today, who will lead our workforces in the future, and to generate a greater community ripple effect for the future. The NRI Group has developed a range of education programs for all students, from elementary school students to university students and international students, based on its know-how and tailored to the needs of each particular group. Through its Student Dialogues and Student Essay Contest it also provides forums for students to turn their minds to the future. The NRI Group also engages in collaborations with educational institutions, with its employees for example giving classes and talks at universities, and arranging for teachers to receive training at companies in the private sector. Business benefits Improving Brand Power and Reputation: Manifesting strength in personal development facilitates us earning brand power as a thinktank. Especially higher recognition from students provides us with advantage in recruiting talented individuals. In order to measure value of NRI from students' perspective, we conduct dialogues with students every year and use it as one of the KPIs. Social benefits One of the most continuously effective activities in human development activities is the “NRI Student Essay Contest,” which has been held every year since 2006. The number of submissions for papers in 2018 is 1,444 works, totaling 15,582 works in the past 12 times. Focus areas of corporate citizenship activities 2 Social development Relevance to business Important elements for realizing sustainable societies are (1) providing developmental support to emerging economies and developing countries whose economies and societies are in transition, and (2) helping regional communities rebuild as they work to get back on their feet after suffering a major natural catastrophe. The NRI Groupʼs consulting skills are among the strong resources in its possession, and we use these skills to provide support with emerging countriesʼ development and for countries recovering from disasters. Another powerful resource we possess is our IT solutions capabilities, which we utilize to support regional communities with their development. Another important activity we undertake is our contributing to society programs which help local communities. Business benefits Business Outcome in Rebuilding Regional Communities and Developmental Support: Our contributing to society programs related to social development have lead us to the consulting business and IT solution business for rebuilding regional communities and providing developmental support to emerging economies and developing countries, and to become profitable. Achievements of these activities can be measured by individual project basis, as presented in the reference case. Social benefits One of the results of social development is the donations to victims of natural disasters. A total of 9,134 NRI Group employees will contribute to the recovery efforts for the Great East Japan Earthquake in March 2011, for a total of 214 million of yen, including matching gifts from NRI. A total of 2,350 NRI Group employees contributed to the 2016 Kumamoto Earthquake recovery efforts, for a cumulative total of 35 million of yen including matching gifts from NRI. Contributions to victims of the heavy rainfall disaster in July 2018 will be donated by 626 Group employees, for a total of 5 million of yen. 73 Social Corporate Citizenship Data Focus areas of corporate citizenship activities 3 Information communication Relevance to business Publication of investigation and research activities outcome is indispensable, for disseminating the social innovation that NRI promotes and receiving recognition widely from the society. Since our foundation, we have undertaken investigation and research activities in diverse fields. We use the results of these activities in our business and continue to propagate intellectual assets through periodic publications and reports, books, and events such as forums. Business benefits Research and Development Expense (investment for innovation): Constant information publishing through forums and events facilitates increase of NRI's recognition as a think-tank and opportunities of projects with the most advanced innovations. Achievement of the activities are regarded as return on the investment for innovation, which can be measured in terms of the research and development expense. Social benefits We disclose the information communication record in recent years as KPI, by which social impact of the information publishing is measured. ▶ Inputs for corporate citizenship activities Social contribution expense unit FY2014 FY2015 FY2016 FY2017 FY2018 Total millions of yen 581 687 591 561 689 By expense item Cash contribution millions of yen 201 348 360 272 395 In-kind contribution millions of yen 1 0 1 0 0 Facility offering millions of yen 10 4 4 4 4 Employee activities millions of yen 367 335 226 284 289 Others millions of yen 0 0 0 0 0 Ratio to ordinary income (Non-consolidated) % 1.10 1.24 1.06 0.96 0.89 Coverage c c c c c ▶ Impacts of corporate citizenship activities Key performance indicator of corporate citizenship activities unit FY2014 FY2015 FY2016 FY2017 FY2018 Human resources Number of entries for NRI Student Essay Contest 883 2,622 3,103 1,767 1,444 development for Career education support Number of schools conducted 31 38 34 24 31 next generation Number of participants no. of person 1,700以上 1,500以上 1,277 733 850 Lecture to university Number of schools conducted 28 32 n/a n/a n/a Number of lecturers dispatched no. of person 52 59 n/a n/a n/a Coverage c c c c c Social Donation support for disaster-stricken areas*1 thousands of yen 19,500 16,095 39,904 13,214 16,577 development Great East Japan Earthquake disaster thousands of yen 19,500 16,095 12,010 9,000 8,000 2016 Kumamoto Earthquake thousands of yen 27,894 4,214 2,960 July, 2018 heavy rain disaster thousands of yen 5,617 Coverage a a a a a TABLE FOR TWO*2 *3 number of meals provided locally 14,404 13,842 16,628 24,041 34,982 Coverage d d d d d Transmission of Number of books issued 19 25 13 15 20 information Number of articles in newspapers and magazines 210 229 273 298 306 Number of lectures given 1,088 1,161 937 962 922 Number of appearances on television and radio 81 126 102 158 267 Number of news releases*4 88 107 97 104 69 Coverage c c c c c *1 Total value of donation from NRI group employees and matching gift by NRI. *2 Total value of donation from eating and drinking person and matching gift of same amount by NRI. *3 Including the amount of CUP FOR TWO started from FY 2017. *4 The publication standard for News Release has been revised from FY 2018. 74 Assurance Independent assurance 75 GRI Standards Content Index NRI's sustainability information disclosure is prepared in accordance with the Core option of the Global Reporting Initiative (GRI) Sustainability Reporting Standards. ◆ General Disclosures 102：General Disclosures Reference 1.Organizational profile 102-1 Name of the organization Integrated Report 2019 Corporate Data / Share Information P90 Integrated Report 2019 Business Model P21 102-2 Activities, brands, products, and services Integrated Report 2019 NRI’s Four Business Segments P39 102-3 Location of headquarters Integrated Report 2019 Corporate Data / Share Information P90 Integrated Report 2019 NRI Group Network P89 102-4 Location of operations NRI official website NRI Group Companies and offices (Link) 102-5 Ownership and legal form Integrated Report 2019 Corporate Data / Share Information P90 Integrated Report 2019 Competitive Advantages of Social and P30 Relationship Capital Integrated Report 2019 NRI’s Four Business Segments P39 102-6 Markets served Integrated Report 2019 NRI Group Network P90 NRI official website Solutions & Services (Link) NRI official website NRI Group Companies and offices (Link) Labor Practices, Diversity Employee data P51 Integrated Report 2019 11-year Summary Consolidated Financial P83 Statements Integrated Report 2019 Corporate Data / Share Information P90 102-7 Scale of the organization Annual Securities Report 2. Business Status Management discussion and analysis of the financial situation, management results and cash P17-27 flow situation. (In Japanese only) Annual Securities Report 5. Accounting Status Consolidated Balance P75-76 Sheet. (In Japanese only) 102-8 Information on employees and other workers Labor Practices, Diversity Employee data P51 Supply Chain Management Supply chain situation P20 102-9 Supply chain Integrated Report 2019 NRI’s Value Creation Process P17 Integrated Report 2019 Cooperation with Business Partner P77 There is no material changes concerning the supply chain during the 102-10 Significant changes to the organization and its supply chain reporting period. Risk Management Management Approach P10 Risk Management Data P11-14 Client Relationship Management Fiduciary duty p23 102-11 Precautionary Principle or approach Environmental Management Management Approach P39 Integrated Report 2019 Internal Controls, Corporate Ethics and P69 Compliance Sustainability Policy Participation in the initiatives P1 Integrated Report 2019 Participation in the United Nations Global 102-12 External initiatives P52 Compact NRI official website Participation in Initiatives (In Japanese only) (Link) Sustainability Policy Participation in the initiatives P1 Integrated Report 2019 Participation in the United Nations Global 102-13 Membership of associations P52 Compact NRI official website Participation in Initiatives (In Japanese only) (Link) 2. Strategy 102-14 Statement from senior decision-maker Integrated Report 2019 Top Message P9 Risk Management Long-term risk P12 102-15 Key impacts, risks, and opportunities Climate Change Climate-related risks, Climate-related opportunities P44 3. Ethics and integrity 102-16 Values, principles, standards, and norms of behavior Compliance Compliance policy P16 102-17 Mechanisms for advice and concerns about ethics Compliance Compliance system P16 GRI Standards Content Index 102 : General Disclosures Reference 4. Governance Corporate Governance Corporate governance structure P6 102-18 Governance structure Sustainability Policy Sustainability management structure P1 102-19 Delegating authority Sustainability Policy Sustainability management structure P1 Executive-level responsibility for economic, environmental, and 102-20 Sustainability Policy Sustainability management structure P1 social topics Stakeholders Stakeholder dialogue P2 Consulting stakeholders on economic, environmental, and Client Relationship Management Client satisfaction p23 102-21 social topics Integrated Report 2019 Active dialogues with shareholders and P78 investors Composition of the highest governance body and its Corporate Governance Members of the Board, Functions and 102-22 P5-9 committees committees 102-23 Chair of the highest governance body Corporate Governance Members of the Board P5 Corporate Governance Criteria and process for nomination of Members 102-24 Nominating and selecting the highest governance body P7 of the Board and Audit & Supervisory Board Members 102-25 Conflicts of interest Corporate Governance Corporate governance policy P6 Sustainability Policy Sustainability management policy P1 Role of highest governance body in setting purpose, values, Sustainability Policy Sustainability management structure P1 102-26 and strategy Integrated Report 2019 System and Responsibilities of the Board of P65 Directors and the Audit & Supervisory Board 102-27 Collective knowledge of highest governance body Sustainability Policy Sustainability management structure P1 102-28 Evaluating the highest governance body’s performance Corporate Governance Effectiveness of the Board of Directors P8 Identifying and managing economic, environmental, and social Sustainability Policy Sustainability management structure P1 102-29 impacts Materiality P3 102-30 Effectiveness of risk management processes Risk Management Risk management system, Risk assessment P13-14 102-31 Review of economic, environmental, and social topics Sustainability Policy Sustainability management structure P1 102-32 Highest governance body’s role in sustainability reporting Sustainability Policy Sustainability management structure P1 102-33 Communicating critical concerns Compliance Compliance system P16 102-34 Nature and total number of critical concerns Compliance Compliance situation P17 102-35 Remuneration policies Corporate Governance Executive compensation P8-9 102-36 Process for determining remuneration Corporate Governance Executive compensation P8-9 102-37 Stakeholders’ involvement in remuneration － 102-38 Annual total compensation ratio Corporate Governance Executive compensation P8-9 102-39 Percentage increase in annual total compensation ratio Corporate Governance Executive compensation P8-9 5. Stakeholder engagement 102-40 List of stakeholder groups Stakeholders Our stakeholders P2 Business and Human Rights Freedom of association and the right to 102-41 Collective bargaining agreements P69 collective bargaining 102-42 Identifying and selecting stakeholders Stakeholders Stakeholder dialogue P2 102-43 Approach to stakeholder engagement Stakeholders Stakeholder dialogue P2 102-44 Key topics and concerns raised Stakeholders Stakeholder dialogue P2 6. Reporting practice 102-45 Entities included in the consolidated financial statements Integrated Report 2019 NRI Group Network P89 Disclosure of Information Scope of reporting / Reporting period / 102-46 Defining report content and topic Boundaries P4 Independent assurance 102-47 List of material topics Materiality P3 Some of the environmental data are shown as figures for which impacts due to important acquisitions, etc. have been recalculated, and note is attached to the 102-48 Restatements of information relevant part. Climate Change Climate-related targets P43 There are no material changes from the past reporting period regarding reporting 102-49 Changes in reporting items and scope. Disclosure of Information Scope of reporting / Reporting period / 102-50 Reporting period P4 Independent assurance Disclosure of Information Scope of reporting / Reporting period / 102-51 Date of most recent report P4 Independent assurance Disclosure of Information Scope of reporting / Reporting period / 102-52 Reporting cycle P4 Independent assurance 102-53 Contact point for questions regarding the report Contact information colophone 102-54 Claims of reporting in accordance with the GRI Standards GRI Standards Content Index (This table) 102-55 GRI content index GRI Standards Content Index (This table) Disclosure of Information Scope of reporting / Reporting period / 102-56 External assurance P75 Independent assurance GRI Standards Content Index ◆ Topic-specific Standards 200：Economic / 300：Environmental / 400：Social 200：Economic Reference 201：Economic performance 201-1 Direct economic value generated and distributed Integrated Report 2019 NRI's Value Creation Process P17 Financial implications and other risks and opportunities due to 201-2 Climate Change Climate-related risks, Climate related opportunities P44 climate change Annual Securities Report 5. Accounting Status Retirement benefits 201-3 Defined benefit plan obligations and other retirement plans P104-106 (In Japanese only) 201-4 Financial assistance received from government － 202：Market presence Ratios of standard entry level wage by gender compared to 202-1 － local minimum wage Proportion of senior management hired from the local 202-2 － community 203：Indirect economic impacts 203-1 Infrastructure investments and services supported NRI official website Sustainability Topics (Link) 203-2 Significant indirect economic impacts NRI official website Sustainability Topics (Link) 204：Procurement practice 204-1 Proportion of spending on local suppliers Supply Chain Management Supply chain situation P20 205：Anti-corruption 103 Management Approach Compliance Management Approach P15 205-1 Operations assessed for risks related to corruption － Communication and training about anti-corruption policies and 205-2 Compliance Anti-corruption P17 procedures 205-3 Confirmed incidents of corruption and actions taken Compliance Anti-corruption P17 206：Anti-competitive behavior Legal actions for anti-competitive behavior, anti-trust, and 206-1 Compliance Fair competition P18 monopoly practices 300：Environmental Reference 301：Materials 301-1 Materials used by weight or volume Resource use, Waste Paper resources P47 301-2 Recycled input materials used － 301-3 Reclaimed products and their packaging materials － 302：Energy 103 Management Approach Environmental Management Management Approach P39-40 302-1 Energy consumption within the organization Energy Consumption Energy consumption P46 302-2 Energy consumption outside of the organization － 302-3 Energy intensity － 302-4 Reduction of energy consumption Energy Consumption Energy consumption P46 302-5 Reductions in energy requirements of products and services Climate Change Action to mitigate climate change P45 303：Water 303-1 Water withdrawal by source Resource use, Waste Water resources P47 303-2 Water sources significantly affected by withdrawal of water Not applicable 303-3 Water recycled and reused Resource use, Waste Water resources P47 304：Biodiversity Operational sites owned, leased, managed in, or adjacent to, 304-1 protected areas and areas of high biodiversity value outside Not applicable protected areas Significant impacts of activities, products, and services on 304-2 Not applicable biodiversity 304-3 Habitats protected or restored Not applicable IUCN Red List species and national conservation list species 304-4 Not applicable with habitats in areas affected by operations 305：Emissions 103 Management Approach Environmental Management Management Approach P39-40 305-1 Direct (Scope 1) GHG emissions Greenhouse Gas Emission Greenhouse gas emissions P45 305-2 Energy indirect (Scope 2) GHG emissions Greenhouse Gas Emission Greenhouse gas emissions P45 305-3 Other indirect (Scope 3) GHG emissions Greenhouse Gas Emission Greenhouse gas emissions P45 305-4 GHG emissions intensity － 305-5 Reduction of GHG emissions Greenhouse Gas Emission Greenhouse gas emissions P45 305-6 Emissions of ozone-depleting substances (ODS) Not applicable Nitrogen oxides (NOX), sulfur oxides (SOX), and other 305-7 Not applicable significant air emissions GRI Standards Content Index 300：Environmental Reference 306：Effluents and waste 306-1 Water discharge by quality and destination Resource Use, Waste Water resources P47 306-2 Waste by type and disposal method Resource use, Waste Waste P47 306-3 Significant spills Environmental Management Environmental management system P41 306-4 Transport of hazardous waste Not applicable 306-5 Water bodies affected by water discharges and/or runoff Not applicable 307：Environmental compliance 103 Management Approach Environmental Management Management Approach P39-40 307-1 Non-compliance with environmental laws and regulations Environmental Management Environmental management system P41 308：Supplire environmental assessment 103 Management Approach Supply Chain Management Management Approach P19 308-1 New suppliers that were screened using environmental criteria Supply Chain Management Supplier screening criteria P22 Negative environmental impacts in the supply chain and actions 308-2 － taken 400：Social Reference 401：Employment 103 Management Approach Labor Practice, Diversity Management Approach P49-50 401-1 New employee hires and employee turnover Labor Practice, Diversity Hire and turnover P53 Benefits provided to full-time employees that are not provided 401-2 － to temporary or part-time employees 401-3 Parental leave Labor Practice, Diversity Work-life balance P54 402：Labor/Management relations 402-1 Minimum notice periods regarding operational changes － 403：Occupational health and safety 103 Management Approach Occupational Health and Safety Management Approach P56 Workers representation in formal joint management–worker 403-1 Occupational Health and Safety Occupational health and safety P59 health and safety committees Types of injury and rates of injury, occupational diseases, lost 403-2 Occupational Health and Safety Occupational health and safety P59 days, and absenteeism, and number of work-related fatalities Workers with high incidence or high risk of diseases related to 403-3 Occupational Health and Safety Occupational health and safety P59 their occupation Health and safety topics covered in formal agreements with 403-4 Occupational Health and Safety Occupational health and safety P57 trade unions 404：Training and education 103 Management Approach Human Resources Development Management Approach P60 Human Resources Development Inputs for human resources 404-1 Average hours of training per year per employee P67 development Programs for upgrading employee skills and transition Human Resources Development Human resources development 404-2 P63 assistance programs program Percentage of employees receiving regular performance and 404-3 － career development reviews 405：Diversity and equal opportunity 103 Management Approach Labor Practice, Diversity Management Approach P49-50 Corporate Governance Members of the Board P6 405-1 Diversity of governance bodies and employees Labor Practice, Diversity Employee data, Employment of persons with P51 disabilities 405-2 Ratio of basic salary and remuneration of women to men － 406：Non-discrimination 406-1 Incidents of discrimination and corrective actions taken － 407：Freedom of association and collective bargaining Operations and suppliers in which the right to freedom of 407-1 － association and collective bargaining may be at risk 408：Child labor Operations and suppliers at significant risk for incidents of child 408-1 － labor 409：Forced or compulsory labor Operations and suppliers at significant risk for incidents of 409-1 － forced or compulsory labor 410：Security practices Security personnel trained in human rights policies or 410-1 － procedures GRI Standards Content Index 411：Rights of indigenous peoples 411-1 Incidents of violations involving rights of indigenous peoples Not applicable 400：Social Reference 412：Human rights assessment 103 Management Approach Business and Human Rights Management Approach P68 Operations that have been subject to human rights reviews or 412-1 Business and Human Rights Human rights due diligence P70 impact assessments 412-2 Employee training on human rights policies or procedures Business and Human Rights Business and human rights management P69 Significant investment agreements and contracts that include 412-3 human rights clauses or that underwent human rights － screening 413：Local communities Operations with local community engagement, impact 413-1 － assessments, and development programs Operations with significant actual and potential negative 413-2 － impacts on local communities 414：Supplier social assessment 414-1 New suppliers that were screened using social criteria Supply Chain Management Supplier screening criteria P22 Supply Chain Management Supply chain risk assessment P21 414-2 Negative social impacts in the supply chain and actions taken Supply Chain Management Information security of supply chain P21 415：Public policy 415-1 Political contributions Compliance Political contribution P17 416：Customer health and safety Quality of Information Systems Management Approach P28 103 Management Approach Information Security Management Approach P34 Quality of Information Systems Initiatives for improving the quality of Assessment of the health and safety impacts of product and P29-30 416-1 information systems service categories Information Security Information security management P35 Incidents of non-compliance concerning the health and safety 416-2 Information Security Management Approach P34 impacts of products and services 417：Marketing and labeling 417-1 Requirements for product and service information and labeling Not applicable Incidents of non-compliance concerning product and service 417-2 Not applicable information and labeling Incidents of non-compliance concerning marketing 417-3 Not applicable communications 418：Customer privacy Substantiated complaints concerning breaches of customer 418-1 Information Security Risks related to protection of personal information P38 privacy and losses of customer data 419：Socioeconomic compliance Non-compliance with laws and regulations in the social and 419-1 Compliance Compliance situation P17 economic area Organizations covered by this report Web version publication date Regarding disclosure of financial and nonfinancial July 2019 (the next report is scheduled for publication in July 2020). information, in principle, it covers the NRI Group (Nomura Research Institute, Ltd. and its consolidated subsidiary). There Trademarks are some nonfinancial information that covers a specific All proper names, including names of companies and range, but in that case, the target scope is clearly stated products, found in the web version of the Report are separately. trademarks or registered trademarks of the respective companies. Period covered by this report This report primarily covers fiscal 2018 (April 1, 2018 through to March 31, 2019), but also describes some events from the Disclaimer past, some activities after April 1, 2019, and certain plans for The web version of the Report contains not only past and future activities. present facts about the NRI Group but also plans and forecasts based on information available as of June 2019, the date of publication of the ESG Databook 2019 in Guidelines referenced Japanese. Changes in assumed conditions may accordingly • International <IR> Framework of the International Integrated mean that future outcomes and events for our business Reporting Council (IIRC) activities differ from these plans and forecasts. • G4 Sustainability Reporting Guidelines of the Global Reporting Initiative • Environmental Reporting Guidelines (2018 version) of the Ministry of the Environment of Japan • Guiding Principles for Business and Human Rights of the United Nations “Protect, Respect and Remedy” Framework • The Corporate Human Rights Benchmark Address for inquiries about this Report: Sustainability & Responsibility Group Nomura Research Institute, Ltd. Otemachi Financial City Grand Cube, 1-9-2 Otemachi, Chiyoda-ku, Tokyo 100-0004, JAPAN Tel.+81-3-5877-7555 Fax.+81-3-3243-7400 E-mail : sustainability@nri.co.jp
