Communication On Progress (COP) 2019 Period covered by From 07 January 2019 to 07 January 2020 January 07, 2020 H.E. Ban KiMoon Secretary-General United Nations New York, NY 10017 USA Dear Mr. Secretary-General, I am honored to confirm that the ten principles of the UN Global Compact with respect to human rights, labor, environment, and anti-corruption. With this commitment, we express our intent to advance these principles within our sphere of influence, and will make statement of this commitment to our stakeholders and the general public. We also pledge to take part in the activities of the UN Global Compact where appropriate and feasiblethrough, participation in country and local networks, involvement in specialized initiatives and work streams, engagement in partnership projects, and reviewing and providing commentary to participating companies on their Communication on Progress. I am honored to confirm that Cho Cho Industry Limited reaffirms its support of the United Nations Global Compact the Ten Principles in the area of Human Right, Labor, Environment and Anti-corruption. In Cho Cho Industry Limited Annual Commitment on Progress, we continue to improve the integration of the Global Compact and its principles into our business strategy and daily operation. Sincerely yours, l0 u tl-D E Daw Sah Soh Director Cho Cho Industry Limited 2 Human Rights Principles Principle 1: Businesses should support and respect the protection of internationally proclaimed human rights; and Assessment, Policy and Goals We are strongly support and respect the protection of internationally proclaimed human rights. We are strongly provided employee's health care. Implementation Cho Cho Industry has regular Clinic head by a registered doctor is provided at the office and the factory. We have arrangement of the providing doctor and clinic at the company/factory for the employees. Holding health forum once every (2) months We are providing health care through social security hospital/clinic and other hospital. The employees with completion of (1) year service are inoculated with hepatitis (B) and up to the completion of Booster Course, Urine, stool, blood examination and treatment are provided for the employee at a company recognized laboratory once a year. Every two years, medical examination performed for the disease TB. “We are strongly provided employee's health care” Measures of Outcomes Medical checked up for every for employees. Company insured for fire, life, car once a year by Insurance Company. 3 Principle 2: Make sure that they are not complicit in human right abuses. Assessment, Policy and Goals We are strongly respected and support the human rights with applicable international and national practices including Universal Declaration of Human Rights and the ten Principles of United Nations Global Compact (UNGC). We’ve also followed the consumer protection law. The protection of Human Rights is embedded in our numerous operating processes and control mechanisms. Implementation Cho Cho Industry Limited has practiced “No Workplace Discrimination”. We strongly prohibit improper behavior, including discrimination or harassment in any form, and any breaches will result in disciplinary action, inclusive of termination or dismissal. We don’t discriminate based on Religion, Ethnicity, Race, Gender, Age or against Vulnerable Groups in our employment process. Cho Cho Industry Limited respects the rights of clients through the provision of objective information about products and services. Taking into account the wishes and needs of our customers, we constantly improve the quality and increase the assortment of our products. “We strongly prohibit improper behavior, including discrimination or harassment in any form, and any breaches will result in disciplinary action, inclusive of termination or dismissal. ” Measures of Outcomes Quarterly review completed by senior management team. 4 Labor Principles Principle 3: Businesses should uphold the freedom of association and the effective recognition of the right to collective bargaining; Assessment, Policy and Goals We are strongly followed our national labor rules and regulations. We are freely upholding the freedom of association by labor negotiating committee. We are paying for Income Tax and for all taxes regularly. Implementation Cho Cho Industry Limited has labor negotiating committee between employee and employer. “We are freely upholding the freedom of association by labor negotiating committee.” Measures of Outcomes Recorded meeting minutes and get signature for agreement from both employee and employer's sides. . 5 Cho Cho Industry Limited has invole employer and employees and participate in social activities and seasonal festivals. Blood donation moment Hta Ma Nae Festival moment Myanmar Water Festival moment Kahtain donation moment 6 Principle 4: The elimination of all form of forced and compulsory labor. Assessment, Policy and Goals We have contracted with employee followed by the labor law. Implementation Cho Cho Industry Limited has employment contract between employee and employer. We are strongly given employment equality to every employee. “We are strongly given employment equality to every employees” Measures of Outcomes Three sets of recorded Employment Contract between employee and employer. And we are also reconstructed after two years successfully employed. 7 “We supports the health of workers and the prevention of occupational diseases by carrying out compulsory medical examinations.” Measurement of outcomes Collect and analyze Employee Satisfaction Survey for their benefits. To measure the development after training and the satisfaction over the training, we’re analyzing training evaluation and survey. Environment Principles Principle 7: Businesses should support a precautionary approach to environmental challenges; Assessment, Policy and Goals We strongly support a precautionary approach to environmental challenges. We strongly doing our environmental pollution control such as water, air, and land. Implementation Cho Cho Industry Limited supports environmental control and preventive actions as a precaution. We have daily watching and checking environment such as to protect the husk flying to environment. We are keeping our factory compound and environment smelling clean. We do daily and weekly report, then preventive and corrective action. Waste disposal system 8 doing by color coded bins. Rejected finish goods sold out to employee as welfare. Waste water management system is only prototype stage and retreat waste water to pour over plants. Product waste was recycling as an animal feeds. “We supports environmental control and preventive actions as a precaution.” Measures of Outcomes Related department monthly checked and reported to Managing Director. Principle 8: Undertake initiatives to promote greater environmental responsibility; and Principle 9: Encourage the development and diffusion of environmentally friendly technologies. Assessment, Policy and Goals Aware of its responsibility for the preservation of the environment, the company has committed to Properly dispose of waste and not pollute the land. Reduce waste materials, i.e. paper, water, plastic, etc. Implemented an electronic document management system to reduce paper consumption. 9 Regular maintenance of vehicles, generators and machines for safety. In order to reduce natural fuel resources, used husk boiler in the production process. Plant trees for the green environment. Clear the drainage drilling Cleaning the factory compound and product line for safety and healthier products Use LED fluorescent tube to save the electricity for whole premises. Auditing internally at the end of each quarter Implementation Cho Cho Industry Limited informs laborers about environmental issues and its impact on health in regards to the company. We keep the factory campus clean and encourage throwing waste into bins. We are planting trees every semiannually. Planting Trees moment “We are planting trees every semiannually for the green environment” 10 The purpose of this meeting is to conduct public meetings aimed at the development of environmental impact and sustainable development in accordance with environmental Management practices in the Cho Cho Industry Limited. Public Meeting on Environmental Management Reporting We’ve replaced diesel boiler with husk boiler to replace natural resources with the recycled item. We’ve cleared the drainage drilling around the outside of our factory for not polluting in the environment and cleaned the factory compound and product line daily for product safety and health. Moreover, we’ve replaced our fluorescent tube with the electricity saved LED fluorescent tube in our factory. Every processes and procedures are audited quarterly and so each and every process are safe and do not harm our customers, employees and the environment. Measures of Outcomes Accepting and welcoming every internal and external complaint upon the internal and external environment and take necessary corrective action. 11 Anti-corruption Principles Principle 10: Businesses should work against corruption in all its forms, including extortion and bribery. Assessment, Policy and Goals External financial audit Inform about anti-corruption to employees Implementation The company does not pay money for protection by any institution, individual or group. Employees are clearly informed about the perception of the management on anticorruption. Workers are paid wages officially in full and the company pays taxes regularly. Moreover, the external audit team is yearly checking the financial report of the company. “Employees are clearly informed about the perception of the management on anti-corruption.” Measures of Outcomes Quarterly review completed by senior management team. 12
