UN Global Compact Report 2020 Statement of Continued Support by the Chief Executive Officer Statement of the company’s chief executive (CEO or equivalent) expressing continued support for the Global Compact and renewing the company’s ongoing commitment to the initiative and its principles. Dear Mr. Secretary-General, I am writing to express Rubicon’s continued support of the ten principles of the Global Compact with respect to human rights, labor, environment, and anti-corruption. In 2011, Rubicon® committed to making the Global Compact and its principles part of the strategy, culture, and day-to-day operations of our company, and I am proud to report that we have and will continue to do so. Our seventh Communication on Progress describes our efforts to support the ten principles this year and our goals for the coming year. We will continue to support the efforts of the United Nations in these areas and look to the UN for guidance and thought leadership. Sincerely, David Rachelson Chief Sustainability Officer Rubicon Human Rights Assessment, Policy and Goals Description of the relevance of human rights for the company (i.e. human rights risk-assessment). Description of policies, public commitments, and company goals on human rights. Respect for human rights is core to Rubicon’s organizational culture and values. Our mission to end waste, in all its forms, is inspired by a desire to help build an environmental, social, economically healthy, and productive world, in which current and future generations’ needs are met. This commitment to both people and planet is a central driver in Rubicon’s decision to pursue the certification necessary to become a Certified B Corporation. As a Certified B Corporation, Rubicon is required to publicly report its social and environmental performance using established third-party standards. The B Impact Assessment measures across corporate governance, worker rights, community and civic engagement, and environmental stewardship. In June 2018, Rubicon completed its third B Impact Assessment and was recertified as a B Corporation with a final cumulative score of 108.4. Rubicon scored in the top 10 percent of all those who take the B Impact Assessment in the categories of Environment and Governance, and in turn was designated a Best for the World Honoree in these areas. To view Rubicon’s 2018 B Impact Assessment, please visit: https://bcorporation.net/directory/rubicon-global/ To learn more about Rubicon’s mission as a B Corp, please visit: https://www.rubiconglobal.com/video-stand-b-corp/ Implementation Description of concrete actions to implement human rights policies, address human rights risks, and respond to human rights violations. Rubicon’s commitment to human rights and social responsibility is reflected in one of our key values as a company, that we are passionate about our people. We believe that as a company our employees are our best asset and because of this we support them through 100 percent paid health care premiums, generous parental leave, and professional development opportunities. Our status as a Certified B Corporation demonstrates our commitment to a culture that rewards and values employee engagement. Rubicon’s commitment is also reflected in our organizational Code of Conduct, hiring policies, paid-time-off for volunteer hours, and integration of social key performance indicators into employee job responsibilities. Rubicon also conducts supplier screenings to manage and mitigate risks upstream. Measurement of Outcomes Description of how the company monitors and evaluates performance. Rubicon uses third-party assessments tools like the B Impact Assessment to measure its performance and identify any gaps. In addition, Rubicon has implemented multiple measurement tools at an employee level to ensure proper policies are in place, such as a performance review program and a rewards and recognition program. Labor Assessment, Policy, and Goals Description of the relevance of labor rights for the company (i.e. labor rights, related risks and opportunities). Description of written policies, public commitments, and company goals on labor rights. Rubicon adheres to the laws set forth by the U.S. Department of Labor and the State of Georgia Department of Labor. Our Human Resources team regularly reviews and updates all HR policies and assessed risks and sets goals in this area. In June of 2019, Rubicon implemented its first Health and Safety in the Workplace Policy, which reflects our commitment to keeping our employees and visitors safe. The policy addresses the reporting of (1) unsafe conditions and/or safety concerns; (2) work-related injuries or illnesses; and (3) “near misses” in the workplace. In addition, the policy identifies some general health and safety rules for Rubicon employees, and includes a set of Emergency Procedures published by the Human Resources Department. Rubicon also has affinity groups for employees to join including: Veterans; African American; LGBTQ+; Hispanic; and Women in Leadership. Each affinity group is led by a member of Rubicon’s Executive Leadership Team. These affinity groups also have subcommittees focusing on education, professional development, socialization/networking, and giving back to and within these communities. In addition to our affinity groups, Rubicon has an employee-led team, the RuBicontributors, who drive additional benefits and opportunities such as crossdepartmental collaboration and volunteer activities focused on sustainability and safety across all of our office locations. Rubicon also highly prioritizes employing a diverse and well-rounded workforce. We publicly released our diversity statistics in 2017 (link here). In March of 2019, Rubicon signed the CEO Action for Diversity & Inclusion™ (CEO Action) pledge. Launched by PricewaterhouseCoopers (PwC) in 2017, CEO Action is the largest CEO-driven business commitment to advance diversity and inclusion in the workplace, with the participation of over 600 CEOs, representing over 85 different industries. This initiative is a key part of our work to promote diverse leadership throughout the waste, recycling, and smart city industries, alongside our commitment to good environmental, social, and corporate governance (ESG). Implementation Description of concrete actions taken by the company to implement labor policies, address labor risks, and respond to labor violations. Over the past three years, Rubicon has continued to introduce and implement new policies and benefits for our employees. Internally, our Human Resources Department uses many different mediums to educate staff on newly implemented policies. Some of these benefits and policies include unlimited paid-time-off for all exempt Rubicon employees, paid-time-off for volunteer hours for all full-time employees based on their tenure at Rubicon, paid-time-off for nonexempt employees’ work anniversaries, one week of optional personal development for associates every two years, and sponsored fitness and financial education classes to support employee health and wellness. In 2020, Rubicon was certified as a “Great Place to Work” by the third-party organization, Great Places to Work®, for the third consecutive year. Certification for this honor required a voluntary anonymous employee survey, as well as completion of Great Places to Work’s Culture Brief which detailed Rubicon’s programs and practices. The certification is used as a way for businesses to quantify their culture, benchmark against other successful companies, and grow their businesses. To view Rubicon’s “Great Place to Work” profile, please visit https://www.greatplacetowork.com/certified-company/7005929 Measurement of Outcomes Description of how the company monitors and evaluates performance. Rubicon uses third-party assessments like the annual Great Places to Work certification to measure its employee satisfaction and identify gaps. The voluntary employee survey is sent to all employees and provides an opportunity for them to give feedback on many aspects of the employee experience including the leadership of the Executive and direct management teams, Rubicon’s contribution to the community, as well as their overall job satisfaction. Additionally, we have established formal channels that allow employees to report perceived violations of our Code of Conduct including a whistleblower hotline that allows employees to report unethical behavior confidentially. Environment Assessment, Policy, and Goals Description of the relevance of environmental protection for the company (i.e. environmental risks and opportunities). Description of policies, public commitments, and company goals on environmental protection. Rubicon has a clear vision for helping both top global brands and small and medium sized businesses reduce their negative environmental impact and protect our communities. The company’s business model is built on sustainability, technology, efficiency, transparency, and responsibility. Rubicon utilizes innovative solutions in order to help both large and small companies improve the way they do business and turn waste into a resource. Rubicon is continually looking to expand this model through partnerships and additional multinational customers around the globe. Rubicon’s mission is to end waste. Rubicon partners with its customers to create innovative alternatives for their waste streams to minimize costs and work toward the goals of zero waste and a more circular economy as primary objectives. Rubicon launched the RUBICONMethod™ (link here) in early 2018. In keeping with our B Corp mission to solve the global issue of waste and create a more circular economy, Rubicon made this six-step system publicly available to help businesses, organizations, and local governments confidently execute on their sustainability goals with long-term economic viability. Implementation Description of concrete actions to implement environmental policies, address environmental risks, and respond to environmental incidents. Rubicon’s environmental efforts include: • In 2019 Rubicon was named a “Best for the World – Long Term” Certified B Corporation by B Lab, the global nonprofit that certifies and supports Certified B Corporations • In August of 2019, Rubicon submitted its annual update to the Ellen MacArthur Foundation’s New Plastic Economy’s Global Commitment. Rubicon joined the commitment in 2018, along with over 400 leading global companies, to eliminate plastic waste and pollution at its source. Rubicon is the only U.S.-based waste and recycling company to participate in this global effort, and as part of this commitment, • Rubicon works with customers to reduce the amount of waste sent to landfills and reduce each company’s environmental footprint. Our subject matter experts, including those in the Rubicon Circular Solutions and Sustainability teams, use metrics and Big Data analytics to pinpoint opportunities and continuously reduce environmental impacts while seeking out new technology and improved solutions for our customers every day. • Thorough new hire orientation for all Rubicon employees that covers both Sustainability and thought leadership. • Rubicon believes in equipping the next generation with tools to build sustainable businesses. Rubicon joined the board of the Initiative for Global Environmental Leadership (IGEL) program at the Wharton School of the University of Pennsylvania to create an academic partnership focused on market driven approaches to sustainability challenges. Wharton, America’s oldest business school, is known for its cutting-edge approach to sustainability. • Trucost is a global leader in the sustainability assurance space. Trucost delivered the world’s first public Environmental Profit and Loss, maintains over two million natural capital data points, and participates in the development of global protocols, including World Resources Institute/Greenhouse Gas Accounting. Trucost has reviewed and verified Rubicon’s methodology of calculating waste diversion, as well as greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions from waste disposal and GHG savings from waste diversion. • Rubicon is a founding member of the U.S. Zero Waste Business Council which was acquired by the U.S Green Building Council and rebranded as TRUE Zero Waste. Rubicon helps its customers pursue TRUE zero waste certification of facilities as a standalone certification, or as part of the LEED rating system for green buildings. • Rubicon is a member of the U.S. Composting Council (USCC) and is committed to advancing innovative and cost-saving solutions that keep valuable materials out of the landfill. USCC’s mission is to “enhance soil and provide economic and environmental benefits” by promoting composting, educating stakeholders about the benefits of composting, and encouraging research into composting best practices. • Rubicon joined the Ellen MacArthur Foundation Circular Economy 100 (CE100) as an emerging innovator. Measurement of Outcomes Description of how the company monitors and evaluates environmental performance. Rubicon uses third-party assessments like the B Impact Assessment to measure its performance and identify gaps. In the area of the environment (which includes environmental products/services, land/office, planet, inputs, outputs, and suppliers/transportation), Rubicon’s score put it in an area of excellence. In addition, Rubicon’s Trucost-verified process measures landfill diversion and greenhouse gas emissions avoidance on behalf of its customers. Anti-Corruption Assessment, Policy, and Goals Description of the relevance of anti-corruption for the company (i.e. anti-corruption risk-assessment). Description of policies, public commitments, and company goals on anti-corruption. In 2017, Rubicon updated its broad anti-corruption/anti-bribery policy. This updated policy is designed to provide clear guidance for all Rubicon employees in terms of dealing with government officials, vetting and validating third party service providers before formal engagement, and setting standards that comply with the U.S. Foreign Corrupt Practices Act and similar laws of other countries. In addition to an anti-corruption/anti-bribery policy, Rubicon also has a CEO policy that governs ethical practices in the Office of the CEO. Implementation Description of concrete actions to implement anti-corruption policies, address anti-corruption risks, and respond to incidents. Rubicon updated its anti-corruption and anti-bribery policy in 2017. Measurement of Outcomes Description of how the company monitors and evaluates anti-corruption performance. Measurement will include cooperation amongst the Legal, Finance, Sales, and Business Development teams as Rubicon looks to expand its business in the United States and abroad to ensure any government-related and commercial activities comply with the policies and applicable laws. -END-
