2019 Sustainability Report Sustainability Report 2019 INDEX A word from the CEO X-ELIO at a glance 2019: a year of change 1 Page 01 2 Page 0 3 3 Page 15 Focus on Good Governance Focus on People & Focus on the planet 4 and Compliance 5 Culture 6 Page 42 Page 23 Page 31 Focus on business 7 partners Page 5 0 Mr. Lluis Noguera C E O A Word from the C EO Dear Reader, optimistic. Over the past twelve months, the sum of investments made in renewable It is an honor for me to present the energy was higher than in nuclear, gas and company’s Sustainability Report for 2019, coal energies altogether. In particular, which demonstrates our renewed solar energy received 57% of total commitment to the values set under the investment in renewable energy. This UN Global Compact. Throughout these trend, together with the increasing success pages, we aim to address our point of view of photovoltaic technology in tenders, the on the issues that affect the long term of remarkable reduction of manufacturing the industry and our Company in costs and the optimization of design, has particular. paved the way to increase the number and size of projects under construction or The business environment in which we operation, in a significantly tougher have operated in 2019 was characterized competitive context due to new entrants. by strong demand, both in Europe and USA, as well as in the emerging markets. I cannot begin to describe our At the end of 2019, the global renewable accomplishments without thanking our generation capacity amounted to 2,537 People for their constant effort and the GW (increased by 176 GW (+7.4%) highest-quality of work. Without them, a compared to 2018), providing around year full of achievements such as 2019, 27.3% of global electricity generation. would not have been possible. I would also Solar energy continued to lead capacity like to highlight the confidence and trust expansion, with an increase of 98 GW our shareholders put in the X-ELIO team to (+20%) and accounting for 586 GW demonstrate the attractiveness of our worldwide. business model. Thanks to all of them, we have brought X-ELIO to a new stage, with a From a political point of view, the number clear focus and ambition on developing of climate change policies, that directly or renewable projects in a profitable and indirectly stimulate the interest in sustainable way, taking significant steps renewables, increased in 2019, reaching towards contributing to the economies, new regions and achieving higher levels of environment and society where we ambition. Financial perspectives are also operate. Sustainability Report |1 2019 was a year in which KKR and Brookfield agreed to hold In line with these corporate changes, from the a joint governance of the board. This alliance will help X-ELIO operational point of view, we have reached three to progress to the next stage of its growth, supported by the significant milestones: 455 MW have been built in Spain, newly appointed members of the Board, who bring together 256 MW have been built in Mexico, a PPA has been the expertise in exceptional management and operational signed with GALP in Spain and 102 MW were divested in performance. non-strategic assets. The changes made in the Board of Directors are only a part of the great transformational plan implemented by X-ELIO in Our business model is our best driver to promote an economic 2019 that will continue in the coming years. The plan, named system based on clean energy, wellbeing of the communities, Thrive Project, aims to align the business strategy and local employment and innovation from a critical industry to processes with the company´s vision, mission and values, as achieve Paris Agreement’s commitments and Sustainable well as a common purpose that gives a greater meaning to Development Goals. what X-ELIO does. This organizational culture-shaping I would like to invite you to read the following lines to discover initiative involves the entire company and contributes to the details on our progress, risks, achievements and areas for increase cohesion and individual and collective motivation to improvement in the environmental, social, economic and face the new stage. governance areas. Not only are all these elements together our As part of this new vision, X-ELIO has been working on an core business activity but also our main areas of contribution as ambitious Sustainability Transformation Program. The well as the purpose behind what we do. program envisages launching several policies around key sustainability topics as well as the foundation of technical committees dedicated to each of them. In the definition of this roadmap, X-ELIO conducted a deep review of its Lluis Noguera materiality matrix, which prepared the company for this new C EO stage. These milestones have allowed X-ELIO to adopt a new structure based on technical committees and enhance communication and knowledge sharing. All these steps have led X-ELIO to the implementation of its new strategy launched in 2019, which structures its activity in three main pillars: Development, Engineering & Construction and Finance. Our goal is to build and develop 5 GW in the next five years (repetitive sustained and sustainable) in a profitable and sustainable way. 2| Sustainability Report 02 X-ELIO at a glance 02 | X-ELIO at a glance X-ELIO is a global Company specialized in the development, design, construction, finance, maintenance and operation of solar photovoltaic energy plants with presence in the United States, the Middle East, Japan, South Africa, Latin America (Mexico and Chile among others), Australia, Southeast Asia and Europe (Italy and Spain). At the end of the year 2019, it was present in 9 countries, with an installed generating capacity higher than 385 MW at its 21 plants in operation. The group is a global leader in renewable and sustainable energy, with a strong commitment to the reduction of greenhouse gases and the fight against climate change. One of X-ELIO’s key drivers is its capacity to provide affordable electricity to homes and businesses while addressing climate change issues derived from the use of non-renewable energy sources. Thus, responsible business practices are at the cornerstone of our strategy and value chain. Apart from identifying opportunities and designing, developing and implementing our own solar facilities, X-ELIO also operates certain facilities that have been transferred to third parties, providing their know-how and expertise throughout the operation and maintenance process. Global presence and main figures * 21 plants in USA Italy operation 1 PV Plant Spain 4 PV Plants 66.6 MW 8 PV Plants 22.35MW 9 employees 2 plants O&M 9 employees 157,914.22 € 62 MW 144,115 € Mexico Japan 1 PV Plant 129 employees Kuwait 6.502.703,63 € 14 employees 73.36 MW 1 PV Plant O&M 7,735.92€ 21employees Puerto Rico 5 employees 4,197,487.29€ 1 PV Plant 5.5 MW Taiwan Honduras 1 employee 1 PV Plant 4,266.19 € 2 employees 42.38 MW Peru 1 employee 2 PV Plants 80,269.6€ 42.43 MW South Africa * KEY: Country 398.25 € 2 PV Plants Australia 30.97MW Number of PV Plants Colombia Chile 4 employees 4 employees Installed capacity (MW) 43,489.71 € 1 PV Plant 4,096,582.96 € Employees 825,299.44 € 57.62 MW Taxes paid 2 employees (€) 1,108,956.34 € 4| Sustainability Report Key figures During 2019, X-ELIO owned 2 0 facilities in nine Presence 385 MWp countries and operated X-ELIO at a in 9 201 Installed three more. Total installed glance Employees generating generating capacity during countries capacity 2019 was 38.3% above previous year. The most relevant milestone of 2019 was the change in the shareholder structure: 750 MWh KKR and Brookfield reached Key figures produced 337,964Tn 55.6M€ an agreement to form a CO2 Avoided turnover in 2019 50/50 joint venture for X-Elio. As a result, at the end of 2019, both KKR and Brookfield held equal stakes: 5 0 % each. With the entry of Brookfield as a Value 61.8M€ 93.5% new shareholder, all compliance generation Economic 17.2M€ procedures are being reviewed, as for Value Local well as strategy approach and Taxes paid Generated employees corporate culture. These changes stakeholders lead X-ELIO to attain its objetive of developing profitable and sustainable renewable projects. Sustainability Report |5 02 | X-ELIO at a glance 2020 2020 Strategic objectives Evolution and growth of 2019 20% renewableenergy + Brookfield acquisition of 50% X-ELIO stake in X-ELIO together with former stakeholderKKR X-ELIO has developed and accomplished + PPA with Nexus Energía: an ambitious international development + Construction of 455MW in construction of 50MW in plan due to, among other reasons, Spain 2018 Spain a flexible and solid business model, an ability to achieve strategic cost + Partnership with Sofos Awarding of Harbert todevelop solar reductions and the development of 244 MW inMexico projects in USA relevant technology that serves to increase efficiency and long-term + Acquisition of project Lily in sustainability. This position has allowed Participation in theKKR X-ELIO to evolve and become a global Global l Infrastructure 2017 USA leader of the industry. Investor II Fund with an 2016 Since the beginning of its operations, 80% share 2015 X-ELIO has gained experience in X-ELIO is born + Uribe connection developing, constructing and operating + Awarding of 455 MW in Spain solar PV Plants in several countries with a variety of technologies and together + Refinancing 92.56 million euros through a singlebond with different original equipment manufacturers. This is the reason why Offices inTokyo 2014 Firstconnection X-ELIO has evolved as well in the field and Mexico 2013 in Japan + Awarding of 250 MW in Mexico of asset turnover, by selling own + Awarding of 37 MW in Japan developments to international investors. + Offices opening inAustralia + First 2012 connectionin Peru 2011 + Offices in Italy and USA + Office in 2009 + First connection inItaly SouthAfrica + First connection in USA 2008 Firstconnection: Albanilla, Spain + Office inChile Gestamp Asetym 2005 Solar is created 6| Sustainability Report Analysis of opportunities X-ELIO’s business activity X-ELIO’s endeavors encompass the overall solar energy cycle: from the opportunities’ exploration passing through construction to the final operation of facilities. The Company’s projects are tailored to specific needs taking into account the Power characteristics of each environment. In this sense, the first step consists of searching, Feed-In Purchase Public identifying and analyzing business opportunities that can derive from three specific Tariffs Agreements Tender sources: Feed-In Tariffs (FITs) 3, Power Purchase Agreements (PPAs) 4 and public or private tenders. (PPA) In order to develop a project, we conduct assessments of locations’ conditions as well as regulatory and feasibility evaluations. In parallel, the team specialized in public tenders identifies and analyzes solar energy auctions issued by government bodies. Simultaneously, financial and investment schemes are explored. Upon identification of ideal opportunities and satisfactory evaluation of financial options, the Board decides whether or not to continue with the next steps of the Business development project. After technical and economic viability of a project are verified, financial sources are Financing process obtained and the approval of the Board is confirmed, X-ELIO starts construction of the solar plant. The construction process entails different aspects such as land preparation, modules Permitting grid supply, structure and equipment supply, civil works, assembly processes, cabling and application connection, testing, implementation of monitoring setups, etc. Upon construction, and Solar plant after ensuring that the appropriate conditions are established, the next step is the purchase connection to the grid. Finally, the phase of maintenance and operation starts, which includes overall monitoring of its smooth functioning as well as data generation, required for preventive maintenance and decision-making processes. Solar facility construction At any stage of this cycle, another path to procuring assets is the strategic purchase of plants, which can be under construction or already operational. Besides that, the sale of plants is sometimes an option for X-ELIO as well. Solar plant Grid sale Connection 3 Tariff setting procedure carried out by Governments that ensures the compensation of costs and boosts the use of renewable technologies through certainreturn. 4 Contract between two parties to regulate the direct sale and purchase of electricity usually from the producer to the final consumer or retailer or any other market participant. Operation and maintenance of facilities 02 | X-ELIO at a glance Solar facilities: construction As soon as the development process is concluded, the design of the plants and the subsequent operation and maintenance are addressed. These phases are key to the Company and, for this reason, different plans are undertaken in order to develop a reliable and efficient operation, control risks and maximize profits. Compliance with the Quality, Environment and 1 CONSTRUCTION Health & Safety Policy Role as project developer: designs plants at the most convenient locations and At the end of 2019, projects under construction with their corresponding degree of supervises the EPC (Engineering, Procurement, and Construction) contracting work, progress are: in charge of final construction. Project MWp Location Grade ofavanced The construction area’s greatest contribution is building the plants while minimizing the Xoxocotla 85.6332 Morelos (Mexico) 80.41% environmental and social risks that may affect the environment. In 2019, the milestones in Construction phase were the implementation of new tools for project management, Terranova 93.177 Ciudad Juarez (Mexico) 96.85% supported by IT Team: “Project Budget”, “ProjectQtor” and “BIM”. Perote II 118.91682 Tepeyahualco (Mexico) 95% Carril 49.965 Murcia (Spain) 100% X-ELIO as construction supervisor Pinilla 49.965 Murcia (Spain) 65.80% Turroneros 34.818 Alicante (Spain) 91.02% The Company’s role during the plant construction phase ranges from projecting the site to supervising work carried out by the contractor, thanks to the efforts of the Project Manager and other supervisors. In this perspective, X-ELIO mitigates any construction​ risks by establishing collaboration agreements with external Engineering Procurement and Construction (EPC) contractors. The latter are in charge of the realization of the project while X-ELIO applies its know-how by examining and controlling day-to-day Establishment works.​ of the framework for Selection Apart from executing the project, the contractor usually oversees the plant’s operation construction of the EPC Beginning of and maintenance over the EPC warranty period, the first years after commissioning.​ activities contractor the works Construction activity is divided into three phases: the establishment of the framework for the construction activities, the selection of the EPC contractor and, finally, the actual construction work. This process is designed to obtain direct control over every possible X-ELIO’s activities are based on its Integrated Quality, Environment and project risk and deviation and to gain a wider scope for action.​ Health and Safety Policy which is mandatory for all members of the organization. This framework is certified under ISO 9001, ISO 14001 and The framework for operations may vary according to the applicable national legislation ISO 45001standards. in each country, but in general, it is structured as of the following steps: 8| Sustainability Report Establishment of the framework for construction activities Establishment of the frameworkfor Selection construction of the EPC Beginning of activities contractor the works Prior to projecting the X-ELIO confirmation project, an Environmental Impact Statement (EIS) is prepared with the assistance of a local external consultant. Local competent External local X-ELIO consultants authority on environment Definition Potential impacts on the area’s Selection environment of the EPC Beginning of contractor the works Design of the Environmental Proposed Approval Impact Mitigating actions Statement This is a legal document in which the promoter (in this case, This document is then submitted to the local competent authority for approval. X-ELIO) identifies any potential effects of the facility on the Demands by the competent authority vary depending on certain legislation, area’s environment and proposes individualized mitigating and therefore, X-ELIO is always in full compliance with and respectful of the actions for each. environment and area biodiversity. One of the key effects of construction works executed by X-ELIO is related to land movement. Depending on the land, this phase of the project can be quite intense. However, we always try to avoid adding or removing soil overall. In other words, we balance the land, trying to flatten out the uneven terrain. In rare cases, where excess of soil is unavoidable, it is taken to an authorized landfill site. 02 | X-ELIO at a glance Selection of the EPC contractor Establishment of the frameworkfor Selection construction of the EPC Beginning of activities contractor theworks ISO 9001 Issuance of Request ISO 14001 Establishment of the For ISO 45001 framework for Proposal to construction Beginning of contractors Selection activities X-ELIO’s the works that comply Compliance Code of the EPC and accept and Polices contractor As soon as all bids have been received, solely corresponding to suppliers successfully passing the double audit, X-ELIO contrasts them to decide which it considers most beneficial. In 2019, X-ELIO operated as an EPC contractor in the construction projects ongoing in Spain and Mexico, totaling 750 MW. Both constructions were completed and the plants started operations in 2020. Furthermore, seven more projects in Mexico, Chile and Spain totaling aprroximately 489 MW of installed capacity were under construction during 2019, all of them in an advanced stage of maturirty (higher than 65%). Beginning of the works Establishment of the frameworkfor Selection construction of the EPC Beginning of activities contractor theworks Considering that legislation differs from X-ELIO designates a Project Manager and Thanks to the combined work one country to another, X-ELIO goes two site managers to oversee requirements performed by X-ELIO’s personnel and beyond regulatory stipulations in safety, established by the Company and the external consultants, weekly reports health, social and environmental financing entity, such as deadlines, quality are prepared and sent to management protection matters during the whole and safety standards, as well as the respect featuring comments from the building project, by hiring external observers for the environment during the execution of team on any of the most relevant specialized in these three matters. the project. events and project status. After this process has been completed, the grid connection represents the last step before the activities included in the Operation & Maintenance phase can start running. 10 | Sustainability Report Solar facilities: operation & maintenance When the plant is connected to the grid and all its components are correctly functioning, X-ELIO starts its role as a facility operator. This phase covers all aspects and activities necessary to run the solar plant with the best performance outcomes. O ver the first years of the plant’s life, the EPC contractor is responsible for its operation and maintenance, although X-ELIO continues to oversee the project. Maintenance tasks performed at a solar facility include: monitoring data and production output, cleaning mowing vegetation, visual inspections and services to correct any deviations. Monitoring and control tasks are performed remotely from the Control Centre located at X-ELIO’s Madrid headquarters. 2 This phase oversees correct operational facilities’ activity functioning (facilities provide energy Compliance with the based on climate conditions), and from a financial standpoint (there are no significant Quality, Environment O&M operational deviations which affect budgeted OPEX). It also exercises predictive, preventive, and Health & Safety (Operation and and corrective functions to ensure that solar facilities owned by X-ELIO operate correctly. maintenance) Policy X-ELIO‘s efforts on Research and Development The race for financing has forced X-ELIO to improve efficiency in its Search of solutions for the best use of radiation operations. Several developments Better operating ratios During 2019, the main R&D achievement have occurred over the years. As was a large-scale nanotechnology test a result of the above trend, on panels. technical partners, academic institutions, and facility providers The program has already been tested in Bifacial panels and trackers smaller campaigns and worked collaborate with X-ELIO in the pursue of new developments efficiently on a larger scale. to boost the industry. Nowadays Nanotechnology IV curves massive The former lines of research on bifacial X-ELIO holds four operating management panels and trackers and the laboratories where technical partners work together development of storage in four different fields, applying batteries continued during the year. its expertise and partners’ Efficiency search during maintenance works technical skills. OPEX reduction 02 | X-ELIO at a glance The contribution of technology to X-ELIO’s business model The new paradigm based on increased competition for financing and prices during auctions is exerting a huge effect on the operation of X-ELIO’s plants, whose OPEX has dropped over recent years to meet the desirable profitability thresholds. To meet these targets, X-ELIO aims to perfect its tools for forecasting potential events and accurately controlling the daily activity of our plants. To this end, X-ELIO has implemented a number of different innovation projects which take advantage of data and IT applications enabling increasingly efficient operations and making it possible to predict outcomes. The maturity of the market is fostering the appetite for solar energy, demonstrated as the most efficient technology. In the short term, it will be to provide clean energy all day, rather than solely during daylight hours. To meet this need, X-ELIO is preparing necessary pilot projects in Puerto Rico for energy storage batteries designed Batteries to stabilize energy supply all day. The main innovations of the Data Integrity Tool in 2019 are: the expansion of its use to every department (O&M, Controlling, Administration ...), the independence of third parties, new developments and functionalities to adapt it to new needs (specialized reports, adaptation to new data management technologies ...) and the DIT creation of databases for use in new corporate tools. IT role in processes improvement and efficiency One of the main tasks of the IT department is to improve processes through the implementation of new business tools (normally software). Main fields of development in 2019 were: + Contribution to corporate processes’ improvement with the development of an application for a budget management project + Definition of a new model towards a new global purchasing process, which will prioritize the quality of the information, traceability and auditability + Improvement inCompany’s information security + Preparation of risk awareness plans + Development of policies for incident management + Reinforcement of communications infraestructures and information storage + Audit of technical vulnerabilities In the field of Big Data, in 2019 the AWS platform has been consolidated as a data warehouse, developing new functionalities. 12 | Sustainability Report X-ELIO Sustainability framework Financial institutions which X-ELIO collaborates with set normally In addition to being a signatory to the Global Compact, X-ELIO exercises direct three requirements for the projects to be financed in terms of control over our contribution to the Sustainable Development Goals and sustainability. These requirements represent the framework in complies with the Equator Principles in a large number of our projects, as we are which X-ELIO operates: an environment and social Due Diligence mainly financed by financial entities that are members of the World Bank. In this needs to be undertaken prior continuing the process; a report on triple way, we control our social and environmental risks, as well as promotes the Equator Principles needs to be reported and covenants on social socioeconomic well-being within its area of influence, both internally and externally. and environment risks linked to the project need to be submitted. Sustainable Development Goals GlobalCompact Global CompactPrinciples Principles Initiatives implemented byX-ELIO 3 – Good health and well-being HealthyX-ELIO 5 – Genderequality 50% of female promotions Elimination of all forms of forced and compulsory labor Signatory tothe Global Compact Effective abolition of child labor Signatory to the Global Compact 8 – Decent work and economic growth Elimination of discrimination in respect of employment and occupation Code of Ethics and Conduct 10 – Reduced inequalities Rights recognition and protection Respect of freedom of association and the effective recognition of the right to collective bargaining Acceptance of any initiative undertaken by employees in this area 7 – Affordable and clean Energy Support a precautionary approach to environmental challenges Statements Environmental Impact (EIS) 13 – Climate change Encouragement of initiatives to promote greater environmental Generation of clean energy as business model responsibility 9 – Industry, innovation and infrastructure Reforestation of a wide range of plan species Development and diffusion of environmentally friendly technologies Generation of clean energy as business model Anti-corruption policy Fight against corruption in all its forms, including extortion and bribery Reputational ScreeningProcess 16 –Peace, justice and strong institutions Protection of Human Rights in theorganization Code of Ethics and Conduct Protection of Human Rights among providers Providers signatories to the Global Compact 02 | X-ELIO at a glance X-ELIO sustainability framework The Equator Principles constitute a risk management framework, adopted by financial institutions to ensure a responsible management of the Project Finance, which is the main financing formula used by X-ELIO for our projects. Currently, 105 financial entities of 38 different nationalities have adopted the principles, used for determining, assessing and managing environmental and social risks associated to potential financed projects and therefore, to the operations that X-ELIO implements. The EquatorPrinciples Application The financial institution will, as part of its internal environmental and social review and due diligence, categorize it based on the magnitude Review and categorization of projects of its potential environmental and social risks and impacts. The financial institution will require the client to conduct an assessment process to address, to the financial institution’s satisfaction, the Environmental and Social Assessment relevant environmental and social risks and impacts of the proposed project (for example, the Environmental Impact Statement). Applicable Environmental and Social Standards The financial institution will require that the assessment process evaluates compliance with the applicable national Standards. Environmental and Social Management System An Environmental and Social Management Plan (ESMP) will be prepared by the client to address issues raised in the assessment process and and Equator Principles ActionPlan incorporate actions required to comply with the applicable standards (for example, the Environmental Impact Statement). The financial institution will require the client to demonstrate effective Stakeholder Engagement as an ongoing process in a structured and Stakeholder Engagement culturally appropriate manner with Affected communities and, where relevant, other stakeholders. The EPFI will require the client, as part of the ESMS, to establish a grievance mechanism designed to receive and facilitate resolution of Grievance Mechanism concerns and grievances about the project’s environmental and social performance (for example, X-ELIO’s Whistleblower Channel). Only for projects with high environmental impact, the financial institution will require the hiring of external consultants for the documentary Independent Review review (X-ELIO hires for all its projects, an external consultant for environment related matters and another for Health and Safety subjects). For all projects, the client will covenant in the financing documentation to comply with all relevant host country environmental and social Covenants laws, regulations and permits in all materialrespects. Only for projects with high environmental impact, the financial institution will require the appointment of an independent environmental and social consultant, or require that the client retain qualified and experienced external experts to verify its monitoring information which Independent Monitoring and Reporting would be shared with the financial institution (X-ELIO hire for all its projects, an external consultant for environment related matters and another for Health and Safety subjects). Reporting and Transparency The financial institution will require a periodic report of the Environmental Impact evaluation. 14 | Sustainability Report 03 2019: a year of change 03 | 2019: a year of change 3.1 Business environment Capacity growth Climate change continues to pose an important threat to the future of life on Earth and 2019 has been the year of consolidation thanks to the unprecedented COP25. Nations and corporations have made clean energy commitments over the next decade totaling about 826GW of new nonhydro renewable power capacity by 2030, at a likely cost of around $1 trillion. However, these commitments fall far short of what is needed to limit the rise in global temperatures to less than 2 degrees Celsius under the Paris Agreement. It also falls short of last decade’s achievements, which brought around 1,200GW of new capacity for $2.7 trillion. Global clean energy investment totaled $282.2 billion in 2019, only 1% higher than 2018, while all-in cost of electricity continues to fall for wind and solar, thanksto Hydropower Wind Solar Bioenerg y Geothermal technology improvements, economies of scale and fierce competition in auctions. * Source: Renewable capacity highlights 2019 byIRENA At the end of 2018, global renewable generation capacity amounted to 2,537 GW**, being 586GW of those solar energy capacity, 23% in total Global Levelized cost of electricity from utilityscale renewable (20.7% in 2018). Asia continued to dominate the global solar capacity power generation technologies expansion with a 95.5 GW increase. Other major increases were in the USA (+22 GW), and Europe (+35 GW).​ When it comes specifically to solar power, Asia continued to dominate the expansion with a 56 GW increase (about 60% of the total in 2019), but this was lower than in 2018. China, India, Japan, Republic of Korea and Vietnam were the countries with most new capacity in 2019. Other major increases were in the United States, Australia, Spain, Ukraine, and Germany.​ * Source: Clean Energy Investment Trends,2019 ** Source: Renewable capacity highlights, 2019 byIRENA The rapid deployment of solar PV has led to significant cost declines in the last 10 years. Costs for electricity from new solar photovoltaic plants in the second half of 2019 were 83% lower than a decade earlier. Although current costs are high due to the low levels of deployment, cost reduction potential is high and the ability to incorporate low-cost energy storage will make them more important as the share of variable renewables in total power generation rises. The average levelised cost of electricity of concentrating solar power plants could fall to around USD 0.09/kWh by 2025, as IRENA’s stimations. Challenges Energy should be in the front line of the world’s push for sustainable development, but the investment data reveal a harsher reality: while investment –as a % of investment over total GDP – in fuel supply continues to fall, capital allocation in the power sector hasn’t increased for the last three years.​ According to Bloomberg's New Energy Outlook, in approximately two thirds of the world, wind and solar energy now represent the least expensive option for adding new power-generating capacity. Electricity demand is set to increase 62%, resulting in global generating capacity almost tripling between 2018 and 2050. This will attract $13.3 trillion in new investment, of which wind energy accounts for $5.3 trillion, and solar power represents $4.2 trillion. In addition to the spending on new generating plants, $840 billion will go to batteries and $11.4 trillion to grid expansion. Financial trends Energy investment has a strong link with country-level financial conditions. Deep availability of capital from private institutions, liquid capital markets, and access to domestic and foreign sources, complemented by limited public finance, are hallmarks of a supportive enabling environment.​ Capacity investment in solar slipped 3% to $131.1 billion in 2019, while in wind climbed 6% to $138.2 billion – the first time that wind has outweighed solar in terms of dollars committed since 2010. Developing countries continued to outpace developed economies in renewables investment: in 2019, they committed $152.2 billion, compared to $130 billion for developed countries. But there was a shift in the mix, with China and India both slipping back, while ‘other developing countries’ jumped 17% to a record $59.5 billion. Included in the latter figure was the largest financing ever in the solar sector: $4.3 billion for the Al Maktoum IV solar thermal and photovoltaic complex in Dubai.​ * Source: Electricity storage and renewables: Costs and markets to 2030 by IRENA ** Source: World Energy Investment 2019,IEA. Sustainability Report | 17 03 | 2019: a year of change 3.2 An organization under transformation prepared for exponential growth During 2019, X-ELIO underwent a number of changes which will shape its future within the next years, focused on the development of profitable and sustainable renewable projects. Starting from the entry of new shareholders, over the past year, X-ELIO worked on a deep transformation process that combined the renewal of organization’s processes and changes in strategy focus. Both milestones derived from a deep strengthening of corporate culture, values, and ambitions INPUT New culture, values and ambition New Shareholder’s Board of Directors New internal structure stake new representation OUTPUT New strategy 18 | Sustainability Report Strengthen culture INPUT Launch of the Thrive cultural transformation project with the following new vision: Develop renewable projects in a profitable and sustainable way​ New culture, values • Thrive will align X-ELIO’s people around the Company's intended vision of success, encompassing the necessary values and behaviors and joint purpose providing greater meaning to what X-ELIO does every day.​ and ambition X-ELIO’s values have been defined as Communication, Accountability, Integrity, Teamwork and Flexibility New shareholders structure Brookfield acquired 50% of the Company’s capital in order to bring X-ELIO to the next level. • Brookfield acquired Acek’s 20% stake and 30% of KKR’s previous stake. Since December 2019, the Company is a Joint Venture New Shareholder’s stake 50/50 governed by KKR and Brookfield. New Board of Directors Appointment of two new Directors representing Brookfield: • Connor Teskey and Tom O’Brian. Board of Directors new representation New internal structure X-ELIO founded its Executive Committee and several technical committees with oversee day-to-day activities in relevant areas. • The new oversight committee comprises Chief Executive Officer, Chief Financial Officer, General Counsel, Chief People Officer, Chief Business, Development Officer and Chief Engineering & Construction Officer • The technical committees formed in 2019 are: FID Committee, Procurement Committee, Management Committee, Health & Safety Committee and People & Culture Committee, along with the already existing Compliance New internal structure Committee. Main corporate responsabilities are included in the Executive Committee which meets every two weeks New strategy framework OUTPUT X-ELIO adopts the 1GWapproach into its operations • X-ELIO is moving from an IPP role in the industry towards a Capital Reciclying actor in order to strengthen its position as New strategy a key actor within the arbitrage between Development and Long Term Hold actors. 1 GW in pipeline 1GW under construction 1GW in operation Sustainability Report | 19 03 | 2019: a year of change 3.3 The review of topics' priority within the new scenario As part of this transformational process, X-ELIO TOP RELEVANT TOPICS FOR X-ELIO MANAGEMENT reviewed its Materiality analysis during the first months of 2020. As the organizations and its business environments change, it became necessary to reassess High Relevance Critical relevance the most relevant topics for the organization and its stakeholders. Thanks to this exercise, X-ELIO is able Health and Safety to adjust the contents of this report, as well as adapt its new vision and strategy into better business practices regarding its​ Climate change and Ethics, relationship with the social and natural environment. carbon footprint Antibrabery, This new assessment led to an update of the former materiality matrix where four new items arose as Integrity critically relevant (Human Rights protection, Efficient Diversity and equality energy consumption, Energy security and Company’s Compliance Business development), while six dropped on the Programe and External relevance medium-low relevance scale (People’s education on Regulatory Regulatory compliance energy transition, Technology and digitization, Risk Framework management (financial, operational, and ESG), Conservation of the environment: biodiversity and Human Rights Environment impact landscape, Shareholders and Good Governance).​ protection and management The results of the updating process reflect the Company’s recent performance and upcoming future. Topics within X-ELIO’s management such as: Risk management, Technology and Digitalization, and the Efficiency Shareholders are already mature topics, and are not in Energy deemed as influential as they were three years ago. consumption Energy security Business development However, Business development, as cornerstone of the new strategy, and hot topics within the industry such as Human rights or Energy security, are gaining relevance for X-ELIO’s future. Internal relevance 20 | Sustainability Report 3.4 The push to a responsible growth As a result of the new paradigm under which X-ELIO operates, certain steps were already taken in 2019 and will be fully implemented during 2020. This is evidenced During 2019 Health and Safety, Procurement and by the inclusion of several policies in the field of Environmental, Social and Compliance Governance field that Will develop a wider ESG framework throughout the Company and its operations. The above policies were designed as part of X-ELIO’s are the management areas in which the biggest efforts commitment to develop renewable profitable and sustainable projects.​ have been made. This has resulted in the adoption of new procedures and updating former ones. Key areas for X-ELIO within this new stage based on the three pillars of Sustainable development follow: During 2020, the objectives pursued within these fields will be the followings: Responsible treatment of the environment, dialogue with communities, with a focus on boosting both education and health are the Environmental Social Governance four main objectives of the ongoing system of . Shareholders rights: corporate policies and procedures . Health & Safety: new standards of communication with . Paperless procedures New H&S standards shareholders, better approved 2019 2021 info packages . Facilitate recycling and . Community Impact: waste management . Risk management: New local community Consolidation of values and definition of Approval of ESG framework of Included as part of . Led lighting system framework non-financial goals and objectives policies and procedures development process . Labor Standards: before approval of any . Pollution project Benchmark/equality Environmental Social Governance program for Q3 2020 . Anti-Corruption: New compliance roadmap . Health & Safety . Climate Change . Shareholders rights . Customer To ensure due diligence in these areas an to promote activity through them, . Ecological Footprint . Risk Management Responsibility specific committees have been created in the Health & Safety and People & Culture areas; . Resource use . Tax Transparency both ​will meet bi-monthly. Along with the Compliance Committee, the above committees . Community Impact will be in charge of shaping the new X-ELIO.​ . Pollution . Anti-Corruption . Labor Standards Sustainability Report | 21 03 | 2019: a year of change Results of the new business approach By combining the implementation of the new set of values, purpose, strategy and shareholders' future outlook of X-ELIO, several operational achievements were made. A significant milestone was the signing of the GALP PPA, bolstering X-ELIO's role as an Independent Power Producer. 1278.37 MW 102,618MWp (642.13 MW in 2018) 455 MW 256 MW PPA Have been built Have been built Has been signed with in Spain in Mexico GALP in Spain Divested in nonUnder construction strategic assets in Italy, (11 projects) (Spain, USA, Japan and Mexico) Peru and Spain 9 337,964 385 MW countries 55.6M€ 0.47GW 201 Tn Installed Present in Turnover In pipeline Employees Avoided CO2 generating (Upcoming in capacity 2020) 22 | Sustainability Report 04 Focus on Good Governance and Compliance 04 | Focus on Good governance Focus on Good governance and Compliance Good Governance and Compliance are two main cornerstones for X-ELIO’s activity. During 2019, the agreement of 50% sale of the Company to Brookfield was one of the main corporate milestones for the Company in its history. A strong Compliance Program is already in place along with the commitment of the Governing bodies, which must result into a success. The entry of Brookfield has led to a new review of all compliance procedures with a fundamental impact on the prevention of corruption and the promotion of work ethics. New New Board Developed Shareholder of directors Compliance Program 24 | Sustainability Report 4.1 Governing bodies X-ELIO has adapted its governance structure and standards to the strictest international ethical and anti-corruption standards. To ensure compliance with commitments agreed upon with the shareholders and general good governance standards, X-ELIO has designated the appropriate bodies and tools that form the Company’s Good Governance System. Good Governance System Governing bodies Tools The Compliance Program is the cornerstone of this system and is embedded Board of General Compliance in all operations and Directors Meetings Program processes carried out by X-ELIO. Accordingly, the governing bodies are committed to the highest standards of integrity and ethical Code of Ethics and business Conduct conduct promoted by the Code of Ethics and Conduct. Policies Procedures Sustainability Report | 25 04 | Focus on Good governance Board of directors Governing bodies and decision-making X-ELIO’s two main governing bodies are the Shareholders’ General Meeting and the Board of Directors, in charge of managing the most relevant business decisions or delegating their execution to specific employees and/or advisors. In general, the Board of Directors’ key functions are to foster interest in the Company and manage the smooth flow of business activities and commercial opportunities. Board composition • At the end of 2019, Gestamp was no • Prior the sale, the Board of Directors was longer a shareholder (Juan María Riberas composed of KKR representatives (Oleg resigned); therefore, representatives Representation Representation from Brookfield (Connor Teskey and Tom Shamovsky, Tara Davis, and Vincent Acek BF O’Brien) were appointed Policard), and ACEK’s (Juan María 20% 50% KKR Riberas), along with Jorge Barredo as KKR 80% CEO and Jaime de la Serna as Secretary 50% • Jorge Barredo became Chairman 12.18.2019 Non-Board Member. Current • Subsequently, in March 2020, Jorge Barredo left X-ELIO, becoming Lluís • In September 2019 Lluis Noguera was Noguera CEO and Chairman. appointed CEO. Juan María Riberas Mera Jorge Barredo Lluis Noguera ConnorTeskey Chairman andBoard CEO and Chairman member CEO and Board member Board member Tara Davis Vincent Policard Tara Davis Tom O’Brian Board member Board member Board member Board member Jaime de la SernaGould Jaime de la SernaGould Oleg Shamovsky Oleg Shamovsky Secretary Non-Board Secretary Non-Board Board member member Board member member 26 | Sustainability Report Due to its business model, X-ELIO’s corporate transactions are capital intensive and the majority of corporate activities require special powers, which are beyond the responsibilities of the area’s heads; hence, Board approval is needed. During 2019, the Board of Directors met 35 times; beyond the changes in Shareholders Structure (entry of Brookfield), significant decisions in the field of: projects financing, divestments, and energy sale contracts were approved. ​ F urthermore, an authorization matrix was created as to complement Board of Directors internal approval processes. Shareholders’ General Meetings Among its many other responsibilities, Shareholders’ General Meetings are in charge of controlling and monitoring the overall management of the Company and making decisions related to the increase or reduction of shared capital, as well as Board of Directors’ composition. Furthermore, when the Board cannot approve due to strategic or price circumstances, the final decision on investment agreements needs to be approved within a General Meeting. A minimum of one General Meeting per year is mandatory, although the Shareholders held nine General Meetings in 2019. Communication between Governing bodies and functional areas Due to its nature and characteristics, X-ELIO has not formally established an Audit or a Management Committee . In order to ensure a smooth flow of communication between functional areas, a series of meetings were held, and committees met to reach a consensus on activities and develop specific action plans. As a result of the new internal structure, several formal committees were designated during 2019 to boost a smooth flow of communication from top to bottom and bottom-up. Conflict of interest management The Corporate Law, as amended by Royal Legislative Decree 1/2010 of June, is the main legal body regulating the structure and functioning of companies in Spain. As a general rule, this regulation stipulates that members may not exercise the right to vote corresponding to its shares when there are certain types of conflict of interest. At X-ELIO this legislation is applicable to our activity.​ A new Conflict of Interest policy is being designed as part of X-ELIO’s focus on Good Governance and a new Powers of Attorney structure within the management team prioritizing efficiency without neglecting risk control, will be both implemented in 2020. Sustainability Report | 27 04 | Focus on Good governance 4.2 Tools Compliance program X-ELIO is committed to meeting the highest standards of integrity and to ensure ethical business conduct. As a result, a comprehensive Compliance Program is in place at all levels in the organization. In fact, efforts are geared towards ensuring that the entire Company and business partners share the same ethical corporate culture. The main vehicles through which X-ELIO regulates its commitment to ethics, integrity, and legislative compliance are: the Code of Ethics and Conduct and the Policies on AntiCorruption, Trade Sanctions, and Anti-Trust, which are complemented by other specific procedures. The Compliance Program serves as a guideline for personnel behavior in the execution of their functions. The Company has also established a whistleblowing channel through which doubts or infringements of the Company’s Compliance Program may be communicated. During 2019, the Program was reviewed and the design of two new policies were started: Donations and Sponsorships and Conflicts of Interest. Both will be fully implemented in 2020 as well as the update of the already existing Anti-Corruption policy and Risk Mapping. The Program encompasses the Compliance Committee and the Code of Ethics and Conduct under which, thus far, three policies set the framework of the Company’s activities.​ Compliance Program Body Tools Code of Ethics and Conduct: Compliance It reflects X-ELIO’s commitment to ethics, integrity, and compliance with legislation, and establishes the behavior Committee which should guide Company employees, as well as its relationships with clients, suppliers, agents, distributors, and external collaborators. It is accessible through website. The Compliance Committee is the internal team in charge of fostering the Company values and ethical conduct, as well as supervising, monitoring, communicating, disseminating and overseeing these Compliance policies. Its composition is diverse, allowing the Anti-corruption Policy Trade Sanctions Policy Antitrust Code participation of the following members: Chief Establish Zero-Tolerance policies Avoids irregular conduct and establishes Prohibits conduct which hinders freeand Financial Officer, General Counsel and People & for bribery, kick-backs, facilitation mechanisms so that X-ELIO minimizes the open competition, such as price-setting, Culture Director with the support of the legal payments and any other form of risk of contracting with blocked persons manipulating bids, assigning clients or department, which has delegated a Legal Counsel corruption. It is accessible through or countries. It is accessible through markets or the exchange of sensitive acting as a Compliance Manager. website. website. information. It is accessible through website. 28 | Sustainability Report Risk management X-ELIO itself is an important line of defense in complying with both internal and external regulations of the Group (commercial regulations, accounting regulations, tax, financial regulations, information security (confidentiality, integrity and availability, etc.) throughout its day-to-day activities.​ X-ELIO has also established the three lines of defense model to identify and manage risk. Both business areas and corporate departments act as observers of the Company’s day-to-day activities and may detect any action or activity that represents a potential risk. Beyond this, the Compliance Area together with the Legal Department, play a key role as a line of defense, implementing and monitoring the above-mentioned policies.​ In 2019, as a mitigation measure, a new Regulatory department has been created , under the direction of General Counsel. The aim of the new role will be monitoring, anticipating and, when possible, correcting regulatory changes that affect each project. The creation of this role will contribute to minimize risks in the development by overseeing in place regulations. As part of the transformation process developed by X-ELIO, will be conducted during 2020 an update analysis of the risk matrix under the direction of the Compliance Committee. X-ELIO has designed an anti-corruption tool to mitigate Compliance and reputational risks that applies to all agreements with individuals or corporate entities. The process consists in a research of the parties implied in the contract and a due diligence conducted by a specialized consultancy firm. During 2019, a new operational risk assessment gathering included participation of X-ELIO's Heads of Integrated Management Systems, Construction and the Committee. As a result of this cross-assessment project, no significant risks were identified. The new Procurement area is also a step forward in Risk management, as it will oversee specific risks derived from the outsourcing activity. Sustainability Report | 29 04 | Focus on Good governance Operational risks Although there are no significant risks inherent to the development of X-ELIO’s activities, beyond those derived from the construction of the plants, risks related to Compliance and Ethics matters may arise, which are mitigated by the Compliance Program and the supervision of the Legal Department. Moreover, the execution of projects encompasses a series of factors that can lead to risks that are not foreseen and therefore, cannot be neutralized in advance. These risks are related to legal, financial, environmental and occupational safety matters. Legal Risks Environmental risks Occupational safety Financial risks risks Legislative instability can lead to The negative impacts on Fluctuations in the price involuntary non-compliance withthe the environment derived The inherent risks of the of raw materials and regulations if they are not previously from constructionwork. construction industry. exchange rates. planned. X-ELIO assumes the risks of changes in The drafting and approval of the The same collaboration X-ELIO signs collaboration regulations that may affect work execution Environmental Impact Statement agreements with the EPC agreements with the EPC plans such as the Environmental Impact is in itself the process of contractor that mitigate contractor through which it is Statement or the safety and prevention plan. identifying and mitigating risks the financial risk, include protected against this type of For this reason, the Company has a powerful to the environment. For all the responsibility clauses for the situation, which is assumed in legal team that monitors these possible markets where X-ELIO operates EPC contractor on the safety its entirety by the construction changes and foresees the different ways and deems it necessary, an of its workforce. Company. that X-ELIO can face them. insurance policy against natural disasters has been contracted. Mitigation measures: Adapt the Mitigation measures: New Regulatory Mitigation measures: Hire a local specialist during construction and entire Project portfolio to the department foundation to monitor hazards in O&M phases to ensure familiarity with local regulation and the most widespread institutional National legislation where X-ELIO operates. adaptation of each Project to the local boundaries. financial framework, Equator Principles.. 30 | Sustainability Report 05 Focus on People & Culture 05 | Focus on People & Culture Focus on People & Culture People and culture are a priority within X-ELIO. The Company believes that a healthy mix of talents, backgrounds and abilities is a competitive advantage and a differential factor. 2019 saw a serious alignment with the new strategy, in order to reinforce and provide a cultural transformation that will create the appropriate framework that will lead X-ELIO to achieve its strategic objectives in the long term. In this growth and expansion process, the Company will rely on its top asset, people. Purpose and Ownership and Internal values flexibility Communication 32 | Sustainability Report 5.1 People & Culture values 2019 has been a transformational year for X-ELIO’s culture and sharing process thanks to the launch of the Thrive project. The initiative aims to align the Company around a vision of the necessary success, values, and behaviors as well as a common purpose that gives a greater meaning to what X-ELIO does. This culture-shaping initiative involved the entire Company to increase cohesion and individual and collective motivation to face the new stage. In this context of change, more than ever X-ELIO understands the importance of a strong corporate culture as the backbone of its organizational development. To successfully meet the strategic objectives, workforce contributions are expected, starting with the executive team and direct reports in Spain and wherever the Company is present.​ X-ELIO employees especially value the double concept of ownership and flexibility. They face new professional responsibilities with flexibility so as to maintain a healthy professional and personal life balance. Strong Culture Digitalization Strive for best Global Teams • Strengthen the high availability of • Improved internal communications communications and information storage infrastructures​ • Reinvigorated local commercial engine in • Reinforced meritocracy performance key geographies​ assessment • Accelerated processes and decision making​ • Deployed individual objectives and KPIs. • Reinforced teams by adding new talent • Increased transparency and participation at from diverse backgrounds and promoted • Provided CMs with full P&L all levels​ best performers​ accountability and visibility • Provided individuals and teams with • Raised awareness regarding information tools for better self management security​ • Upgraded middle manager’s people skills • Improved information security management Sustainability Report | 33 05 | Focus on people & culture X-ELIO’s values A key growth lever for X-ELIO is to attract and retain the best talent, which is the way to become a point reference in the solar energy market. In order to be an attractive Company for the most qualified professionals and to build a shared corporate culture, X-ELIO centers its activity on five values that base the day-to-day activities:​ X-ELIO believes that a strong internal communication system improves performance. During 2019, the Communication Company communicated through its own channels and also carried out activities which gather and drive positive workforce impact. X-ELIO aims to develop the full potential of its workforce, endorsing a continuous-improvement Accountability attitude and a strong committment to the Company. As a Company, X-ELIO prizes transparency and ethical behavior in all its operations. During 2019, its Integrity employees took part in several training programs which addressed topics such as anti-bribery and corruption, and antitrust competition laws. X-ELIO is a global Company which succeeds worldwide thanks to the talent of its diverse workforce. Diversity & The Company believes that different experiences, perspectives, and insights make for a stronger and Teamwork more effective organization. X-ELIO endeavors to offer its employees the right conditions for personal and professional growth. XFlexibility ELIO has listened to its employees in 2019, and has extended its Flex-Time options based on their needs. 34 | Sustainability Report 5.2 Workforce distribution The staff of X-ELIO is composed of 201 professionals from around the world: 127 men and 74 women. At the end of 2019, the workforce was distributed as follows: Average age is 38 years: 2018 2019 Female Male 1 Distribution of type of worker is described as follows: 1 1 3 Female Male Sustainability Report | 35 05 | Focus on people & culture 5.3 Ownership & Flexibility Career at X-ELIO X-ELIO is a global Company that strives daily to offer career opportunities and benefits to its talented people. Opportunities are mainly translated into growing responsibilities, promotions, work environment and accountability; benefits are also understood as the means to balance In 2019, there was a significant reinforcement both, professional and personal life such as flexibility. Driven by these values, X-ELIO of the management team with the is committed to its people, with promotion and employment quality standards. incorporation of CEO, CFO and CE&CO During 2019, 186 out of the 201 total collaborators (93%) with indefinite contracts, 54 people officer were hired and 11 people were promoted. Ownership and flexibility In the effort to recognize extraordinary performance, X-ELIO has assigned key performance indicators to all of the employees as part of their performance assessment. This clarifies expectations of performance and allows people to understand how their contributions align with Life, accident Sick and Meal Healthy Internal the Company’s overall results. This, together with growing accountability for all employees and and inability Allowances workshops parental leave communication insurance complement information sharing reinforces the employee ownership as a key value driver.​ The compensation system values the effort of the team through the distribution of a variable complement. The Company has developed a policy that serves to set the objectives and components of this bonus which is applicable to employees of X-ELIO, depending on their Transport Retirement Plan Flexible Nursery Allowances and Pension Remuneration Transport contributions and responsibility. Company car Funds Plan Healthcare Flex-time was launched last year, and offers the opportunity to customize working hours so that entry and exit times may vary within 5 hours according to each employee’s needs. During 2019, XELIO paid attention to its employees and adapted the program to their needs by offering further flextime schemes. Talent review sessions have been systematized as a method Working abroad of managing performance evaluation and talent identification in As X-ELIO has deployed operations in 10 countries, a fully diverse team has been made up of local staff the organization. An individual assessment is conducted to and employees from corporate headquarters. Among those based out of headquarters, there are two determine the current and potential level of an employee's mobility systems within the Company depending on the length of their stay. For both of these types, a series of benefits are established, including an expatriation package.​ contribution to the organization. Meetings were held with area managers to identify the talent and there have been calibration To promote international mobility and knowledge sharing, the Bubble assignment encourages employees to develop certain projects in a different context and country. This is an sessions at the C-Suite level, to ensure fairness in the process opportunity to boost international experience and ease growth opportunities while enhancing the corporate culture by facilitating cross pollination.​ 36 | Sustainability Report Internal Training To attract, empower, and retain the best talent, it is necessary to establish solid motivation channels. Hence, training is doubly beneficial: it builds competitive advantage for the Company, while also creating an attractive value proposition. During 2019 X-ELIO has provided training in a wide range of fields at most levels in the Company.​ In 2019, a total of 3,317 hours of training were implemented, a 33% increase vs. 2018 (2,500 hours), in the fields of languages, financial products, local project development, leadership, Compliance, ISO 45001 and occupational risk prevention amongst others; on average, every received 16.50 training hours (3 hours more than the previous year) in 2019. Brown Bag sessions As a tool for functional knowledge sharing, the initiative Brown Bag Sessions consists of informal, informative and voluntarily taught sessions by XELIO’s people to all colleagues interested in During 2019, 25 Brown Bag sessions were held in practically attending it. all the countries in which X-ELIO is present (10 in Spain, 3 in the Through this initiative, X-ELIO aims to give the opportunity to its employees to share their USA, 7 in Mexico, 2 in Japan, and 3 in Italy) expertise in particular topics due to their career or academic background, such as: Excel, financing, and project development best practices amongst others. Diversity and Equality X-ELIO considers the creation of equal opportunities for all its employees, current and potential, of paramount importance.​ To reinforce meritocracy, X-ELIO established in In the area of gender equality XELIO strives to support and accompany employees along all stages of their lives, trying whenever possible to accommodate their life circumstances. In 2019, 2019 a benchmark analysis to ensure equity in 45% of promotions were female employees and the numbers have moved from 35% to 37%, its employers’ performance process. It offers the increasing two points the overall female representation in the organization. An important right conditions for a fair and individual growth advance not only in numbers overall but also in X-ELIO’s diverse leadership at all levels leading to both, personally and professionally. a better decision making in a long term perspective. X-ELIO believes that a diverse team and an inclusive culture bring greater knowledge and leadership. Proportion of local employees 100% 100% 100% 100% 100% 100% 100% 100% 100% 100% 100% 100% 100% 100% 100% 95% 93% 93% 91% 88% 75% 75% 67% 2018 2019 20% 20% 0% Sustainability Report | 37 05 | Focus on people & culture Internal Communication and engagement X-ELIO believes that a strong internal communication makes a positive effect in productivity, which generates greater opportunities of investment, in savings, creativity, innovation, development and differentiation in the markets. Internal Communication is considered as a material topic for all employees and aims to improve communications from top-down, bottom-up and interdepartmental. Considering this, X-ELIO developed a solid system that includes not only communication channels but activities that gather team members and allow positive conversations amongst them. Thrive: Culture shaping initiative One of the first priorities of this initiative is to align X-ELIO workforce around the vision of success the Company wants to achieve, as well as around the values and behaviors needed to set a common purpose that gives a greater meaning to what the Company does. X-ELIO aims to increase the cohesion and individual and collective motivation to face the new stage. During 2019, X-ELIO has started to engage the executive team and its direct reports both in headquarters and in all countries where they have presence. Through several sessions, meetings, and notifications, X-ELIO gathered employees from offices around the world to discuss the new corporate purpose and values. X-ELIO’s Annual meeting Since 2011, X-ELIO has been organizing the “Annual Leadership Meeting” in which all organization members were presented with first-hand knowledge on previous year results, the current situation, and future goals for the organization. This meeting works as an internal communication tool that fosters engagement and open dialogue to make a stronger and more 1 anual meeting efficient X-ELIO. From all X-ELIO offices in the world, 133 professionals attended the event in 15 breakfasts and 25 Brown Bag with 133 roundtables with Thrive 2019. Ten working teams gathered professionals belonging to all activity areas with the aim of participants Sessions leaders initiative finding solutions to the current strategic matters of the Company. Sessions Freedom of association and collective bargaining X-ELIO has promoted over the years the freedom of associationamong its employees. For the moment there has been no formalization of works committees, neither in offices Postings in 2 Quarterly 1 newsletter nor among maintenance personnel.​ social media All Hands per quarter Meetings Employee Handbooks are available to workers, functioning as a guide that lists the working adapted to local context and legal requirements. 38 | Sustainability Report 5.4 Health & Safety As part of the new stage of the Company, the Health & Safety field is at the forefront of X-ELIO’s efforts The Integrated Quality, Environment, and Health and Safety Policy is the general to become a responsible operator. framework which determines the Company’s activities in all its phases: from the selection of projects to be developed, through the construction phase, to the Therefore, several measures were implemented, such as the operation and maintenance.​ launch of a Health & Safety committee and the development The Integrated Policy has a wide field of application that covers all activities related of a new Corporate Health & Safety policy. to the design, construction and commissioning of photovoltaic solar power facilities. The corporate area of Quality, Safety and Health, and Environment monitors the In terms of Health and Safety, as well as in all those related to the environment, X-ELIO goes compliance with the requirements of the framework regulations and provides beyond the simple compliance with the legal requirements. Accordingly, the Company hires an technical advice to adjust each project to the necessary standards and requirements.​ independent external consultant on Occupational Safety during the development of thework. Furthermore, each X-ELIO country delegation has autonomy for applying its Integrated Policy, which will be adapted to the current local regulations, as well as to The area of Health and Corporate Safety, based in Madrid, is responsible for selecting the Health the phases of development of each project.​ and Safety Coordinator of each project. In addition, it is in charge of monitoring the correct development of the coordinator’s work, in line with the Health and Safety Plan created for each In 2019, X-ELIO adapted its Quality, Environment and Health and Safety Policy to project. certify under the new standard ISO 45001:2018, formerly OHSAS 18001. The Company staff supervises the contractor compliance on safety matters and, at the same time, Moreover, X-ELIO considers that a solid training program is key to achieve the zero an external auditor oversees the work being carried out during the construction phase. accidents goal, along with preventive activities such as medical examinations. Also, when an accident occurs during work execution, the procedure requires immediate and direct To this end, the Company has developed procedures for all new employees including communication with the Health and Safety areas and due notification to all concerned parties. informative dossiers on occupational risk prevention, based on on-line training courses to prevent commuting accidents and promote safety in different areas of the The area of HSE is highly aware of the provision of PPEs to X-ELIO employees, who adequately world, among others. protect them from those risks to their health or safety that cannot be sufficiently avoided or limited by using collective protection measures or work organization methods. This instruction extends to all personal and personal staff visiting the X-ELIO facilities. The main achievements in Health and Safety during 2019 were achieving ISO 45001 As part of the lines of defense system for safety risks, Certification, as well as certification as X-ELIO works along with two specialized consultants: an a Healthy Company under AENOR standards. external prevention service, and a management system service, in charge of ISO 45001 certification. Sustainability Report | 39 05 | Focus on people & culture X-ELIO has outsourced its Employee Health Prevention Service which is responsible for assessing the scale and nature of risks related to the health and safety of workers, as Year 2018 2019 well as proposing the necessary control measures to reduce or eliminate them. This evaluation revealed that currently, positions at X-ELIO do not carry significant risks in Incidence Index 0.2 12.75 terms of occupational safety.​ Frequency Index 0 5.96 During 2019, the severity and frequency index has increased, as well as the frequency Severity Index 0 0.07 index due to the much higher number of projects under construction (totaling 20 in different countries). The new policy’s approach is to report every single incident; therefore, the annual record is slightly higher although the severity index remains low. Safety abroad X-ELIO operates globally and is committed to provide a safe work environment to all of their employees, in order to achieve this goal in areas of the world where there are higher security threatsTo this end XELIO collaborates with a specialized service provider that delivers permanent advice on the subject. Some of those services include: Permanent country security risks Security advisory in high-risk locations, including among others, the following services: The security consultant support advisory consisting on information X-ELIO on specific crisis on the characteristics and security management and resolution level of the destination before travel. + Security escort + Risk analysis of + Security Audits + Staff training cases, either from an operational This data is updated on a daily relevantlocations or informational perspective. basis through the monitoring and intelligence research made by the provider. + Development ofsecurity + Monitoring of thelocal + Employee’s protocols security situation geolocation 40 | Sustainability Report Healthy XELIO Healthy X-ELIO is a program whose main objective is to promote health and good habits among workers. Their three fundamental pillars are nutrition, sports and emotional well-being. Taking these objectives into account, different acivities, programs, workshops and initiatives have been launched. Pillars of HealthyX-ELIO During 2019, there were several noteworthy achievements in the context of the Healthy X-ELIO initiative. The program got certified under AENOR standard, and therefore X-ELIO became a certified Healthy Company. The program was also fulfilled globally during the year, with all Mental employees now Nutrition Sports program beneficiaries. well-being Initiatives within the program, such as de fruit day, healthy daily menus, or plastic bottles usage reduction have continued to be implemented. In 2019, these initiatives have been applied in all offices where X-ELIO operates globally, reaching the total integration.​ In terms of active lifestyle, X-ELIO has also participated in sports activities, such as popular races and marathons, where Rock and Roll marathons or Women's' Race are few examples, as well with internal basketball games. This year, mindfulness talks were also launched, involving both practical and theoretical sessions. Sustainability Report | 41 06 Focus on the planet Focus on the planet X-ELIO’s main objective is to provide affordable electricity to households and businesses while tackling climate change issues. Besides boosting its positive impacts, X-ELIO is committed to minimize its negative impacts by a correct environment management​ . X-ELIO’s main contributions to mitigate climate change include: reduction of emissions by producing clean Energy, the promotion and awareness raising on the use of sustainable energy resources and strengthening the competitiveness of the sector. Raising Strengthening Reduction of awareness sector emissions on the use of competitiveness clean energy Sustainability Report | 43 06 | Focus on the planet 6.1 Clean energy producer Energy efficiency: output and consumption During 2019, X-ELIO operated 21 facilities, which produced a total of 750,156.877 MWh, with total consumption of 5.163,4MWh. X-ELIO’s energy output in Spain in 2019 was equivalent to the total energy consumption of 17,000 persons in Spain over the full year5. The total output of all X-ELIO plants around the world is equivalent to the energy consumed by 240,000 persons6. 2019 2018 2019 2018 2019 2018 MW 2019* output output consumption consumption Intensity** Intensity Spain 62.026 90,480.766 99,693.399 1,082.927 1,257.906 0.011 0.013 Italy 22.35 953.910 9,916.909 21.858 234.453 0.022 0.024 USA*** 72.155 136,892.526 150,743.857 611.072 701.131 0.004 0.005 Peru 42.434 69,607.403 99,843.449 499.355 666.064 0.007 0.007 South Africa 30.967 63,034.281 62,144.186 729.763 740.290 0.011 0.012 Honduras 42.382 86,233.866 82,873.317 586.933 578.062 0.006 0.007 Japan 0 0 62,968.448 0 639.637 0 0.01 Chile 57.623 153,618.848 153,246.240 896.476 872.922 0.005 0.006 Mexico 73.364 149,335.279 0 734.985 0 0.005 0 * It does not include not-owned plants were O&M Works are carried out. Generating capacity refers to year 2019 long, although 21 plants were divested ** Energy intensity = MW consumed/MW produced *** Includes Puerto Rico PV plant: 5.5 MW installed capacity and 6,866.34Mwh produced 5 Calculated from electric power consumption (kWh Spain average per capita). World Bank Data. Last updated 2014. 6 Calculated from electric power consumption (kWh World average per capita). World Bank Data. Last updated 2014. 44 | Sustainability Report Avoided emissions According to the International Energy Agency, global energy-related CO 2 emissions are expected to decline 8% in 2020, or almost 2.6 gigatonnnes, reaching levels unseen since 10 prior. In response to the exceptional circumstances arising as a result of the coronavirus pandemic, the uncertainty surrounding public health, the economy, and energy during what remains of 2020 is unprecedented.​ Energy generated by X-ELIO produces no direct CO 2 emissions, their activity is in and of itself a path to reduce greenhouse emissions. In total, the generation of 2,700,564.75 GJ of renewable energy in 2019 prevented the emission of 337,964 tons of CO2:​ Avoided tons of CO2 Spain Italy United States Peru South Africa Honduras México Chile TOTAL 26,330 387 68,857 20,673 54,777 31,993 67,201 67,746 337,964 7 See: International Energy Agency http://www.iea.org/topics/climatechange/ Sustainability Report | 45 06 | Focus on the planet 6.2 Environment protection Environmental management The Company’s Integrated Quality, Environment and Health and Safety Policy represents the central framework determining the activities performed over all stages, ranging from identifying potential projects to their maintenance and operation. This policy is widely implemented and encompasses activities performed in offices and solar facilities. The Integrated Policy’s key objective is to Along with an specialized consulting minimize the environmental impact caused by the Company’s activities, based on reduced service that supports the Environment consumption and waste. In addition, another important goal is to regulate the performance of Management System, X-ELIO activities in the most efficient way and to contribute to the fight against climate change, thereby contracts local consultants at the protecting biodiversity and ecosystems, which could potentially be affected by the construction and installation of the solar facilities.​ geographies where it operates, so that The Quality, Health, Safety and Environmental corporate area (QHSE) is in charge all requirements are met and fulfilled. of overseeing compliance with regulatory framework requirements and provides technical assurance to adapt each project to the environmental standards. Besides, Project Managers detect In 2019, 285,600 € were invested in the environmental demands inherent to each project and design any necessary measures to mitigate potential impacts within the applicable national legislation framework and taking into environment auditing processes, account the financial insititutions’ requirements in the field of environment protection.​ totaling 342 in all. In 2019, X-ELIO was able to renew the following certifications: UNE-EN ISO 9001:2015 (Quality management), UNEEN ISO 14001:2015 (Environment management), and ISO 45001:2018 (Health and Safety management) without non-conformities and no further action plans were needed. Impact on the landscape and biodiversity Alarcos Project: As a landscape integration measure, approximately 5 0 ha of native species such as pine, broom or thyme have Each and every X-ELIO project falls under the Integrated Quality, Environment and Health and Safety Policy framework, been planted, following the specifications which is the basis for all their activities. From the start of the construction of a new plant, its environmental impact is of the Environmental Impact Statement. individually managed based on the Environmental Impact Statement (EIS). The EIS is a diagnostic and mitigation document in which X-ELIO identifies any potential effects that its projects may have on the environment. The document serves as a plan Cadima Project: As a measure for the that includes diverse mechanisms to tackle those impacts, with an integral approach, both preventive and corrective to local adaptation of the environment to local fauna and flora. fauna, drinking fountains, shelters and ponds for fauna have been installed. These structures will be maintained throughout During 2019, X-ELIO invested more tan 250,000€ in reforestation projects, regenerating a the life of the plant. wide variety of plant species according to the Landscape Integration Plans. 46 | Sustainability Report 06 | Focus on the planet In general, the most likely impacts arising from the construction and implementation of plants are: Impact on . Selection of locations with reduced visibility surroundings . Integration of photovoltaic installations in surroundings based on re-vegetation of plant limits Noise and dust . Control of particles and dust through land watering generation . Organizing the use of heavy machinery during the daytime to reduce inconveniences Soil impact . Conservation and subsequent use of top soil during land movement and hydration . Conservation measures involving natural soil draining and work during periods of intense rainfall to reduce conditions sediment dragging anderosion . Select locations in areas with low biological value to reduce the impact on protected species or those of special interest Impact on flora . Reforestation of a wide range of plant species to regenerate the flora and fauna . Monitoring fauna based on local administration guidelines Social and . Establishment of an open dialogue with the local community at all development locations archaeological . Preparation of social studies in necessary areas impact . Background studies to verify the existence of archaeological remains Sustainability Report | 47 Consumptions and waste In 2019, X-ELIO consumed the following materials, intended both for construction activities and office work: Construction in Japan Offices Steel: Aggregates: Silicon: Aluminium: Paper: 53,263.34 615,948.48 3,028.97 11,853.40 1.29 tons tons tons tons tons Water consumption is mainly concentrated in the construction phase, when the roads need to be irrigated frequently in order to minimize dust inconvenience. In this context, water use during 2019 is distributed as follows: During 2019, X-ELIO started a campaign to Construction Operations & reduce plastic by changing Offices their traditional bottles of Maintenance 40,725 m3 2,880 m3 water into a 100% recycled 9,823 m3 and recyclable bottles. 48 | Sustainability Report 06 | Focus on the planet Forestry operations during the construction phase is the main source of waste for X-ELIO. In this sense, it is important to note that one of the most significant procedures contemplated in the Environmental Impact Statement (EIS) is the action plan for the management of this impact. Thus, the management system includes guidelines to follow for production, segregation, tracking and measurement of the waste produced. Forestrywaste Hazardous waste 5.1% 0.1% In 2019, 3,782.18 tons of waste were generated from Old components were which 5.11% were hazardous collected, handled and and 0.1% corresponded to processed by forestry waste. an authorized waste X-ELIO’s management is manager. committed to continuous improvement and sets specific 94.8% goals around minimizing Non-hazardous waste waste. Sustainability Report | 49 Greenhouse gas emissions Scope 1 Scope 2 Scope 3 X-ELIO avoidsGHG emissions since its activity is the generation of clean These emissions occur from sources that are owned or This accounts for G H G emissions These are a consequence of energy. controlled by the Company derived from the the activities of the or emissions from chemical generation of Company, but occur production in owned purchased electricity from sources not or controlled process consumed by the owned or controlled equipment. Company. by the Company. Business trip, plane: 853.52 t C O 2 Commute: Scope 1 Scope 2 Scope 3 146.96 t C O 2 0 2,396.49 1,050.58 Rent cars: 42.03 t C O 2 t CO2 t CO2 t CO2 Business trip, train: 8.06 t CO2 50 | Sustainability Report 07 Focus on business partners Focus on business partners To a great extent, X-ELIO’s business model depends on local producers and communities, as its operations take place locally. Forging strong relationships, prioritizing local suppliers, and compliance with tax commitments are areas of focus for the Project development process. Local supplier Local Tax communities and labor participation contribution 52 | Sustainability Report 07 | Focus on our business partners 7.1 Supply chain New procurement approach As part of the new approach towards a sustainable profitable growth, a The ultimate goal of the process is to develop the sonew Procurement area has been launched. It is responsible for establishing procurement processes, principles, and guidelines for the supply of goods and called Procurement To Pay processes, which services. The new head of Procurement directly reports to the Engineering & Construction Officer, along with heads of Engineering, Construction, Health & 60% means to embrace a full control over the process throughout all its stages. Safety and Operation & Maintenance. To this end, X-ELIO has developed a full range of internal procedures and tools. Especially noteworthy are the Procurement procedures, a Purchasing catalog, Supplier certification processes, and final Supplier assessments. The cornerstone of this new organization is to meet all Compliance Program Local suppliers As a step further, a Procurement Committee was stablished duringx 2019 to oversee the requirements. Through the entire process a risk assessment is carried out in (by volumen) implementation of these measures. three different levels, always prior to issuing the purchasing order. Procurement • Applicable to any purchase, as well as to those not ordered by the Procurement area, no matter the price procedure Purchasing • Defines which sort of purchasing are done by the Purchasing department catalog Supplier • Consists of two phases: initial and final certification. During the first stage, the supplier accepts and signs certification a questionnaire, and during the final stage, it provides evidence of Compliance with the aspects accepted in the questionnaire. The second process only applies to approved suppliers and requires documentation/proof. process • The valuation process starts when the service is finalized, to detect and monitor non-compliances which might Supplier potentially prevent the supplier to be contracted again during the next year. assessme • Purchase Orders are only submitted after positive compliance assessment, which might require in some cases the nt Compliance Committee approval Sustainability Report | 53 7.2 Local communities X-ELIO operates in some developing countries and we are committed to their development and improvement. One of the ways to do so is through direct and indirect employment resulting from local procurement practices that are guided by the strict principles established by our Code of Ethics and Conduct, ensuring responsibility and integrity in our value chain. 61.8M€ 17.2M€ 250M€ 93.5% 3 EconomicValue Invested in Local New initiatives with Taxes paid Generated local providers Employees local communities Proactive dialogue and collaboration agreements with stakeholders In 2019 X-ELIO installed mailboxes at its facilities to ensure X-ELIO aims to be close to all our stakeholders (shareholders, employees, contractors, public that anyone affected by the project may communicate with administration, electricity companies, consumers, financial institutions, and local community) by the Company. 17 meetings were held in 2019 with surrounding communicating its current activities, projects, and future plans. X-ELIO has thus established several communication channels, such as its website, annual report, and whistleblower channel. communities Local communities From the early stages of any project, X-ELIO considers and incorporates economic, social and environmental impacts depending on the location and characteristics of each eventuality. The Requirements derived from the Equator Principles mechanisms needed to monitor, control and mitigate impacts vary depending on the country regulations where the project is being developed or if the financing entity is a signatory to the Equator Principles. In general terms, all procedures should follow the provisions established in the Environmental Impact Dialogue and active listening to the local community Statement, the requirements of financial entities and the obligations derived from the energy plans of each country and/or the different mechanisms established by local regulations.​ Beyond the above-explained structure, X-ELIO carries out consultation procedures with the local community, through which its members, both institutional and individuals, have the opportunity to be National Laws duly informed and participate in the decision-making process. Thanks to the meetings held, X-ELIO can identify the needs and demands of community members near the plants. In this way, X-ELIO designs and executes long-term development and engagement programs that can respond to the concerns of the Evaluation of socio-economicimpact community. 54 | Sustainability Report 07 | Focus on our business partners Local Employment through supply chain In the execution of its projects, X-ELIO gives priority to materials, services, and employment sourced from the local community. The main supplier of services is the contractor that hires and trains local personnel, supervised by X-ELIO staff.​ Total suppliers expenditure * Local suppliersexpenditure** % Local Suppliers 2018 2019 2018 2019 2018 2019 Chile 2,149 1,999 2,149 1,999 100% 100% Spain 87,411 399,944 26,288 109,173 30%** 27%** Colombia 66 31 66 31 100% 100% Italy 1,437 1,233 1,437 1,233 100% 100% South Africa 1,674 1,661 1,674 1,661 100% 100% Japan 70,778 22,259 70,778 22,259 100% 100% Honduras 455 123 455 123 100% 100% Mexico 160,192 231,766 160,192 231,766 100% 100% USA 15,040 69,119 15,040 69,119 100% 100% Peru 34 46 34 46 100% 100% Australia 1,019 4,866 924 4,866 100% 100% Argentina 112 0 112 0 100% TOTAL 340,367 733,047 279,149 442,276 * Thousand Euros ** The largest supply item for X-ELIO is solar panels, whose management and billing is centralized in Spain. Sustainability Report | 55 Ongoing local projects: road conservation and donations In recent years, as a result of several local communities meetings and discussion several community Projects have been carried out. Two main collaboration areas are roads maintaenance and donation programs, which undergo for years after de construction phases in the Projects of Mexolar, Terranova, Xoxocotla, Navojoa and Perote. Assisting our local communities In Japan, Typhoon Hagibis destroyed and caused several damages in Miyagi prefecture. The local team organized a donation program to support the victims of Shiroishi city, in which both theemployees and the Company made an individual effort to raise 250,000 JPY. X-ELIO also donated construction material such as sandbags and lights to assist in the rehabilitation of the region. X-ELIO South Africa We have recently engaged with three localcommunity schools. The collaboration consisted on the donation of office furniture to organizations that offer creative and supportive education to children from surrounding underprivileged areas who have special needs and cannot cope with normal mainstream schooling. These donations have gone a long way in providing a comfortable place of work and study for not only staff but also, students alike. Strengthening our local communities X-ELIO supports the communities in which we operate and develop important partnerships that drive economic growth and increase cooperation. In Japan, X-ELIO sponsors Vegalta Sendai, the prosoccer team in Sendai . 56 | Sustainability Report 07 | Focus on our business partners Economic and tax contribution X-ELIO contributes directly to the economy through the payment of salaries and wages, the contracting of suppliers and the payment of tax obligations in all countries where we operate. Since the establishment of our presence in a country, X-ELIO is already adding value to the local communities and contributing to their growth and development. In this context, one of the most important contributions is the payment of taxes directly to the local administration upon start of operations.​ The trend towards the maturity of the sector has implied a double effect: the application of technology to operate with greater efficiency and, consequently, the competitiveness increase of solar energy without access to public support or subsidies. X-ELIO is, therefore, financed without accessing government incentives, leaving those amounts to be used for other public needs. Tax Contribution 2019 * Spain 6,502,703.63 2018 * 2019 * Argentina 0 Costa Rica 0 Economic Value Generated Turnover 74,6841 55,620 Chile 1,108,956.34 Financial income 2,021 2,120 Australia 43,489.71 Other income 3,654 4,125 USA 157,914.22 TOTAL 80,359 61,865 Colombia 825,299.44 Economic Value Distributed Honduras 80,269.60 CAPEX 288,922 726,973 Italy 144,115.00 Payment to capital providers 62,840 120,502 Mexico 4,197,487.29 Taxes 32,241 17,212 Kuwait 0 Personnel 12,988 16,065 Japan 7,735.92 TOTAL 396,991 863,540 South Africa 4,096,582.96 Economic Value Retained Puerto Rico 4,266.19 TOTAL 29,357 22,637 Perú 398.25 * * Thousand Euros Euros 1 During the year, the Group assessed and updated the Group’s accounting policies. As a result of this, 2018 turnover was re-expressed from 126,910 to 74,684 thousand euros. Same reduction was also re-expressed in the operating expenses, resulting no impact in the operating income of the Group. Sustainability Report | 57 AI | Annex I: Entities Annex I: Entities The scope considered by X-ELIO for the elaboration of this Sustainability Report 2019 matches the financial consolidation scope, which includes the following companies: SPAIN CALASPASOL 1, S.L.U. MURSOLAR 6, S.L. CRESIA DIRECTORSHIP, S.L. FUENTE ALAMO ENERGIA SOLAR 1, S.L. MURSOLAR 14, S.L. MESOLA DIRECTORSHIP, S.L. FUENTE ALAMO ENERGIA SOLAR 2, S.L. MURSOLAR 17, S.L. ARBATAX INVESTMENTS, S.L. X ELIO MANTENIMIENTOS, S.L. MURSOLAR 19, S.L. CERCENA INVESTMENTS, S.L. CALASPASOL ENERGIA 2, S.L. MURSOLAR 24, S.L. MARTIN DIRECTORSHIP, S.L. EXELIO ENERGY TRADING, S.L. EXELIO ENERGY SALVADOR, S.L. RABIDA INVESTMENTS, S.L. X ELIO ZENER, S.L. X ELIO ANDALTIA MURCIA, S.L. MARPANI SOLAR 1, S.L. SAELICES EL CHICO SOLAR, S.L. MURSOLAR 28, S.L. MARPANI SOLAR 2, S.L. MUELAS DEL PAN SOLAR, S.L. MURSOLAR 30, S.L. MARPANI SOLAR 3, S.L. PHOTOSOLAR MEDINA 3, S.L. PLANNING BUSINESS GREEN, S.L. MARPANI SOLAR 4, S.L. PHOTOSOLAR MEDINA 4, S.L. MARISTELLA DIRECTORSHIP, S.L. MARPANI SOLAR 5, S.L. TEQUI SOLAR 2, S.L. PORDOI INVESTMENTS, S.L. MARPANI SOLAR 6, S.L. 58 | Sustainability Report AI | Annex I: Entities SPAIN MARPANI SOLAR 7, S.L. GANDASOLAR 5, S.L. MARPANI SOLAR 8, S.L. GANDASOLAR 6, S.L. MARPANI SOLAR 9, S.L. GANDASOLAR 7, S.L. MARPANI SOLAR 10, S.L. GANDASOLAR 8, S.L. CLARKSON INVESTMENTS, S.L. GANDASOLAR 9, S.L. CAVALIER DIRECTORSHIP, S.L. GANDASOLAR 10, S.L. COEGA INVESTMENTS, S.L. GANDASOLAR 11, S.L. FLORIAN DIRECTORSHIP, S.L. GANDASOLAR 12, S.L. GADONI DIRECTORSHIP, S.L. GANDASOLAR 13, S.L. MAGNO DIRECTORSHIP, S.L. GANDASOLAR 14, S.L. AGRÍCOLA LAS MONAS, S.L. GANDASOLAR 15, S.L. PARQUE SOLAR PÁRAMO, S.L. XXI CONTSOLAR, S.L. GANDASOLAR 1, S.L. SOLARGES PERÚ, S.L. (*) GANDASOLAR 2, S.L. * Associated Companies in which the shareholding is 50% or less. GANDASOLAR 3, S.L. GANDASOLAR 4, S.L. Sustainability Report | 59 AI | Annex I: Entities CHILE ITALY JAPAN FOTOVOLTAICA NORTE GRANDE I SPA X ELIO ITALIA S.R.L.t X ELIO JAPAN, KK FOTOVOLTAICA NORTE GRANDE 4 SPA GASI 22, S.R.L. GASJA 5, G.K. X ELIO CHILE, S.P.A. GASI 41, S.R.L. GASJA 8, G.K. FOTOVOLTAICA NORTE GRANDE 5 SPA GASI 53, S.R.L. X-ELIO 9, G.K GASI 54, S.R.L. X-ELIO 13, G.K. SOUTH AFRICA GASI 57, S.R.L. X-ELIO 14, G.K. GASI 59, S.R.L. X-ELIO 15, G.K. X ELIO SOUTH AFRICA , LTD X ELIO EMENA, S.R.L AMATERAS SOLAR, G.K. X ELIO CONTRACTING, LTD X-ELIO ITALIA 1, S.R.L. X-ELIO 18 G.K. MULILO RENEWABLE ENERGYSOLAR PV PRIESKA (PTY) LTD X-ELIO ITALIA 2, S.R.L. X-ELIO 17, G.K. MULILO RENEWABLE ENERGY SOLAR PVDE AAR (PTY) LTD X-ELIO ITALIA 3, S.R.L. S-13 HOLDCO, G.K. X-ELIO ITALIA 4, S.R.L. X-ELIO 16, G.K. INDIA X-ELIO ITALIA 5, S.R.L. AMATERAS FARMING, G.K GESTAMP SOLAR INDIA, PLC X-ELIO ITALIA 6, S.R.L. X-ELIO ITALIA 7, S.R.L. GASI 52, S.R.L. (*) GASI 56, S.R.L. (*) * Associated Companies in which the shareholding is 50% or less. 60 | Sustainability Report AI | Annex I: Entities USA GASNA 5, LLC X-ELIO ENERGY BA HOLDCO, LLC X-ELIO ENERGY LILY, LLC GASNA 8, LLC X-ELIO ENERGY BOOMERANG I HOLDCO, LLC LILY SOLAR HOLDING, LLC GASNA 12, LLC X-ELIO ENERGY MIDWAY I, LLC LILY SOLAR LLC GASNA 14, LLC MIDWAY I SOLAR HOLDING, LLC LILY SOLARY LESSEE, LLC GASNA 16, LLC BOOMERANG I, LLC X-ELIO ENERGY SUN, LLC GASNA 18, LLC IMPERIAL BOOMERANG I, GASNA 7P, LLC GASNA 19, LLC 83WI 8ME LLC GASNA 12P, LLC GASNA 40, LLC X-ELIO NORTH AMERICA DEVELOPMENT HOLDCO., LLC GASNA 18P, LLC GASNA 51, LLC X-ELIO NORTH AMERICA LAND CO., LLC MOROVIS SOLAR, LLC GASNA 58, LLC BRACEY SOLAR PROJECT, LLC GASNA 51P, LLC PRCC SOLAR HOLDING, LLC CLAXTON SOLAR PROJECT, LLC X ELIO NORTH AMERICA, INC. PALM VALLEY SOLAR CALIFORNIA I, LLC X-ELIO ENERGY NC YADKIN, LLC UNITED SOUTHERN DEVELOPMENTS, LLC (*) X-ELIO ENERGY USA, INC. X-ELIO ENERGY SC YORK, LLC COWAN SOLAR PROJECT, LLC (*) 83WI ACQUISITION HOLDCO, LLC X-ELIO ENERGY LILY, LLC LETOHATCHEE SOLAR PROJECT, LLC (*) * Associated Companies in which the shareholding is 50% or less. Sustainability Report | 61 AI | Annex I: Entities MEXICO X-ELIO FV BACABACHI, SAPI DE C.V. PERU KENERGREEN, SAPI DE C.V. ENERGIA FV PERU S.A.C X ELIO MEXICO, SA DE CV GESTIÓN SOLAR PERÚ SAC (*) EL SALVADOR FV MEXSOLAR I, SAPI DE CV FV MEXSOLAR II, SAPI DE CV AUSTRALIA TENCOLUCA SOLAR S.A. DE C.V. FV MEXSOLAR III, SAPI DE CV SAN NICOLAS SOLAR S.A. DE C.V. X-ELIO AUSTRALIA, PTY, LTD. FV MEXSOLAR IV, SAPI DE CV X-ELIO WHUGHNU PTY, LTD. FV MEXSOLAR V, SAPI DE CV HONDURAS X-ELIO BLUE GRASS PTY, LTD. FV MEXSOLAR VI, SAPI DE CV X-ELIO CONGUPNA PTY, LTD. GESTORA DE ENERGIA RENOVABLE DE MEXICO CONSTRUCTORA SOLAR CENTROAMERICA X-ELIO ROMA HOLDING, PTY, LTD. FV MEXSOLAR VII, SAPI DE CV ENERGIA SOLAR CENTRAOMERICANA S.A. DE C.V (+) X-ELIO ROMA HUB SOLAR FARM, PTY, LTD. FV MEXSOLAR VIII, SAPI DE CV FV MEXSOLAR IX, SAPI DE CV EGIPTO ARGENTINA FV MEXSOLAR X, SAPI DE CV CLEAN ENERGY, S.A X ELIO, S.A.E FV MEXSOLAR XI, SAPI DE CV X-ELIO FV CONEJOS MEDANOS, SAPI DE C.V. COLOMBIA X-ELIO FV XOXOCOTLA, SAPI DE C.V. * Associated Companies in which the shareholding is 50% or less. SOL BOCHICA, SAS 62 | Sustainability Report
