CREATING AND SHARING VALUE IN THE OLOLO EXPERIENCE JUNE 2019 -JUNE 2020 UN GLOBAL COMPACT COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS ABOUT OLOLO Ololo Safari Lodge is a luxury boutique lodge that is located on the beautiful banks of the Mbagathi River, which forms the southern border of Nairobi National Park. The lodge is a mere 45 minute drive through the park from Nairobi and both main airports, yet the lodge's secluded location feels like a world away. The Ololo Experience is a unique adventure that allows you to enjoy the beauty of our secluded gardens, the charm of the farm and the wildlife that is right on our door step. In design it is an intimate and meaningful connection to nature that is deeply relaxing, nourishing and at the same time allows you to think of food, ecosystem biodiversity and sustainability. Ololo is set on a productive 20-acre regenerative farm that is the flagship of our sustainability and environmentally respectful values. Our farm is 100% organic certified and uses regenerative farming practices to raise animals and a diversity of vegetables and fruits. We have a “paddock to plate” principle, meaning that our guests enjoy the freshness of seasonal deliciousness. Ololo is based on a simple value – Care. We care to create the highest value in our business and care to share it with our plants and animals, our people and our environment. At Ololo we believe that food is a connection point of plants, animals, people, soil, water and air. We are passionate about bringing to life the natural cycles that keep this connection healthy and helping others do the same. 2 DIRECTORS' STATEMENT We are pleased to confirm that Ololo Safari Lodge and Farm reaffirms its support of the Ten Principles of the United Nations Global Compact initiative in the areas of Human Rights, Labour, Environment and AntiCorruption In this annual Communication on Progress, we describe our actions to continually improve the integration of the Global Compact and its principles into our business strategy, company culture and operations. We also commit to share this information with our stakeholders using our primary channels of communication. This past year has been a foundational year in defining and establishing our commitment to be a force for good in our business and community. This includes understanding more on how our business and the SDGs interact, defining our SDG priority areas of action, placing goals and policies in place to ensure that our business strategy and daily operations are aligned to the UNGC principles. In the coming year, we look forward to do more activities in our action plan of integrating our sustainability goals, while we record, measure and communicate our impact. CRAIG AND JOANNA CHAPMAN 3 CONTENTS Highlights 2020......................................................................5 Ololo's Implementation of the 10 UNGC Principles......... 6 Value for Ololo Family ...........................................................8 Value for the Environment......................................................11 Value for Ololo Community ...................................................14 Sharing value with our guests and customers.................15 Sharing Value with Children............................................ 18 Moving Ahead .......................................................................21 4 HIGHLIGHTS 2020 Defining our strategy and Positioning of CR Ololo's Strategy is driven by care – We care to do the right thing This is the first Communication on Progress report since Ololo’s in every part of our business. Doing the right thing for us means commitment in June 2019. During the year, we worked to understand responsible tourism and regenerative farming, which are at the how our business relates with the SDGs and the 10 principles of UNGC. core of our business. We aim to embody the highest quality of We defined and positioned our strategy to create the maximum value value creation in our four key focus areas quality of employment possible at any one time across our value chain. In August 2019, we met for the Ololo Family, quality of our products and services to our with the Global Compact Network Kenya office in Nairobi where we guests and in our supply chain, quality of our soils and discussed our initiatives that support the 10 principles. In September environment and the quality of our relationship with our 2019 we hosted the GCNK team at Ololo, where they were able to see community. what we have done and discuss with us opportunities for moving forward. Ololo supports the Global Goals and aims to demonstrate how small businesses in tourism and agriculture can help steer forward This past year was about defining what we can do. This coming year, these goals. The 10 principles of UNGC in the areas of human we will focus more on our action plan and impact. We plan to do an rights, labor, environment and anti-corruption overlap and assessment of the impact of our business which will inform our way intersect with our key focus areas. While the 10 UNGC Principles forward. Among the certifications that Ololo will be undergoing this are an overarching framework to shape, communicate and report coming year include B-Corp and Eco-certification. These two, among our strategies, goals and activities, the SDGs have inform the key other assessments will help us measure our impact and set more areas of our strategy. precise targets for the coming years. 5 Ololo's Implementation of the 10 UNGC principles Principle Commitment Systems Actions HUMAN RIGHTS Principle 1: Businesses should Ololo Safari Lodge (Ololo Ltd.) Ololo Human Rights Policy Provision of all meals for support and respect the acknowledges and respects human Statement staff protection of internationally rights and labour standards based proclaimed human rights; and on the International Bill of Human Provision of living areas Rights, including the Universal Principle 2: make sure that Declaration of Human Rights and the Ololo staff Committee they are not complicit in International Labour Organization's human rights abuses. (ILO) 1998 Declaration on Ensuring inclusion and Fundamental Rights and Principles at diversity in recruitment of Work staff Ololo has a Human Rights Statement, in line with international best practice. LABOUR STANDARDS Principle 3: Businesses should Ololo does not use forced, Ololo Human Rights Policy Flexibility at work uphold the freedom of compulsory or child labor. and, Statement association and the effective where applicable, recognize the Staff Rotation Programme recognition of the right to right to collective bargaining. Ololo Code of conduct collective bargaining; Opportunities for learning Ololo provides safe and healthy Ololo Supplier Code of and development Principle 4: the elimination of working conditions for our employees Conduct all forms of forced and and ensuring that human rights such Promotion of a diverse compulsory labour; as freedom of association and equal workforce opportunity are incorporated in Principle 5: the effective human resource practices Ololo Staff Committe abolition of child labour; and Inclusion of youth and the Principle 6: the elimination of deaf discrimination in respect of employment and occupation. 6 Principle Commitment Systems Actions ENVIRONMENT Principle 7: Businesses Ololo is dedicated to managing Regenerative farming Nutrient Recycling through principles Composting should support a our environmental impacts precautionary approach to proactively and we are committed Organic Farming Weed. Feed Seed Programme environmental challenges; to working together in our Certied community to regenerate our Trees For Life Programme Principle 8: undertake environment. Ololo’s vision is to Zero waste poultry initiatives to promote greater ensure that natural cycles, processing Bulk Purchasing Biodegradeable environmental responsibility; including energy, carbon, mineral, Detergents and microbe and water cycles, all flow Supplier and Distributer freely in the lodge and farm. Plastic free water bottles Principle 9: encourage the Code of Coduct development and diffusion of Ololo has an ambition to become Grey and Black Water Recycling environmentally friendly carbon negative through technologies. appropriate farming practices, Paddock to plate principle in business operations and supply Ololo Kitchen chain ANTI-BRIBERY AND ANTI-CORRUPTION Ololo Ltd. is committed to Ololo Anti-corrutpion Principle 10: Education of Staff on Anticonducting its activities in an Policy Statement Businesses should work corruption ethical and honest manner, and is against corruption in all its committed to implementing and Ololo Code of Conduct forms, including extortion Tip Management Commiittee enforcing systems that ensure and bribery. bribery is prevented. Ololo Ltd. has Supplier and Distributor zero-tolerance for bribery and Code of Coduct corrupt activities. Ololo Ltd. will uphold all Kenyan laws relating to anti bribery and corruption. We are bound by the Kenyan laws of Anti-Corruption and Economic Crimes Act in regards to our conduct. 7 VALUE FOR OLOLO FAMILY Within the Ololo Family are the employees at Ololo. Ololo family’s health, safety insurance (NHIF) that is supported We aim to provide with our employees with safe and well being is very and organized by the Kenyan and decent work that respects the internationally important to us. As a result, government. Ololo encourages recognized human rights and fair employment we ensure that every new extra saving by its employees. To terms. Our goal is to not only offer such member gets the proper this end, Ololo is a member of employment, but to ensure work experience is training to handle all materials and KENPIPE sacco and facilitates the diverse and includes opportunities for learning and requirements at work.This is the case whether transfer of part of the registered development. the employees are working on the front of employees’ salary into the sacco house, the hospitality department, the kitchen, for savings. 70 percent of all the Ololo supports and follows all the Kenyan laws in maintenance or on in the farm. The workers employees are members all of regards to Human Rights and Labour as outlined in are provided with protective clothing which have been able to receive Ololo Human Right Policy Statement. This policy depending in their area of work. Additionally, financing to develop their own statement is a guideline to ensure that Ololo Ololo ensures that all its permanent personal development projects. employees understand their human and labor rights. employees have at least the basic social security and health 8 Members of the Ololo Family do benefit from education opportunities that enable them to improve both their careers and their personal life. Ololo conducts workshops on various areas of interest to Ololo Farmily. During the workshops, all the employees available and interested are allowed to attend. This not only benefits Ololo, but this value is shared with the families of the employees who go back to their rural homes to practice such what they have learned. In the year 2019-2020, Ololo conducted Organic Farming training and Tree nursery establishment and management. Additionally, some of the employees were able to attend external trainings on mushroom growing, snail farming and the Kenya Agricultural show At Ololo, we take pride in our Staff Rotation Programme that enables staff to rotate between departments especially when their main department of work is not very busy. During the low tourist season for example, employees from the front of house that serve our guests at the lodge are able to work in the farm and farm staff help with the maintenance activities at the front of house. This is effective in two ways; it ensures that the available labor is allocated to where it is needed the most and also give the employees a new skill set that can be useful in their daily lives or down in their career path. The Staff Rotation Programme is one of the programmes that has helped staff from the front of house to maintain their employment during the COVID-2019 Pandemic, as it gave them flexibility to work in the farm while the lodge was closed. In the meantime, the extra labor has seen to hastening some projects at the back of house, contributing greatly to our sustainabiility jouney. Another way of ensuring that the Ololo family is well informed in the current ideas in the fields of tourism and regenerative agriculture is through showing educative documentaries that showcase best practices. This has proven to be important in innovation and generation of new ideas into Ololo, which actually helps the employees to feel more involved. While Ololo Family has been predominantly composed of male employees with only 20% being female, Ololo has taken some important strides in including women. This is especially so in recruitment where Ololo fills in new positions that open up in the lodge and farm with qualified women. Currently 50% of employees in leadership positions in different departments are women. With new enterprises being created in the coming year, Ololo identifies this as an opportunity to increase the number of female employees in the Ololo Family. 9 At Ololo, we recognize the low level of social protection and job security that the youth face worldwide, leaving them in unemployment or vulnerable and informal employment instead of transitioning from school to the labour market. We also realize that youth can be a positive force for development, when opportunities they need to thrive are given. It is because of this that one of our key missions is to provide an opportunity for youth to practice and start projects through our internship and apprenticeship programmes. The vision of the Ololo Youth Internship and Apprenticeship Programme is to both promote an entrepreneurial culture among youth and to build partnerships with universities and research institutions in advancing research and innovation in sustainable agriculture and responsible tourism. The impact we aim at is to be a bridge for successful transition of youth from university to their careers and/or profitable enterprises. Internships at Ololo are three-month opportunities for university students and recent graduates to gain experience at Ololo Farm. During this Period, the youth learn how to operate a small farm and get to see which of the departments are of interest to them. Ololo offers the youth the opportunity to also to contribute any of the ongoing projects or start their own, so long as they are within the sustainable and regenerative farming models. Apprenticeships at Ololo are one-year paid opportunities for youth who have already interned at Ololo for three months and have identified projects that they would like to commit to in the long run. Most of these projects are research oriented on the different topics such as soil biology, feed formulation, carbon sequestration and plant pathology. Ololo aims to partner with education institutions to help youth develop their projects Additionally, Ololo is interested in ensuring inclusion in its work with youth. This has led the company to focus in particular, on employing young deaf people in our community, who are among a group that has difficulty in transitioning to formal employment. Our deaf staff have become an integral part of the company’s employee structure, and have taught other employees at Ololo to be inclusive. As a result, most of the farm employees have embraced basic sign language with these young deaf people. This coming year, Ololo will look into employing more youth who are deaf into our new operations. 10 VALUE FOR THE ENVIRONMENT We recognize that for life to be balanced as it meant to be, natural cycles have to flow freely on our land as they should. This included the energy cycle, carbon cycle, mineral cycle, microbe cycle and water cycle. We decided on two systems to ensure that we do justice to the land: Organic Farming and Regenerative Land Management. While this is not the cheapest way to run our business, it is definitely the right way for our family, our guests and all the people who use our products and services and who expect the highest of standards in their production. In February 2020, we received our organic certification after a three year long process of training, learning and conversion. While our values are based on our staunch belief in taking care of our environment, Organic Farming is a framework we to affirm our community that we are adhering to all the practices that we promote. Since 2015, Ololo has been developing its Regenerative Land Management Model, which has been under rapid development over the last year. We endeavor to imitate natural patterns in raising our plants, poultry and animals. We rotate our poultry and animals through the farm, which spreads manure to microbes in the soil, which feed the plants, which then feed the animals completing the cycle of nutrients. Through our Weed. Feed. Seed programme, we ensure soil building and plant biodiversity on our field by weeding ourt any invasive plants, feeding the soil through worm teas, compost and mulch and finally continual seeding to increse diversity of our pastures. 11 At Ololo, we are working to increasingly ensure that ours is a business that embodies circular economy. From our food, products and our services we are creating a model that ensures we close the loop of the materials we use. Here are a few examples of what we do in these regards: We purchases all our detergents and cleaning products that are biodegradable in bulk, hence reducing the amount of packaging of the materials used and reducing their impact on the environment. All our glass waste is given to a nearby glass recycling Centre, Kitengela Hot Glass, where it is used to make new glass items. Kitengela Hot Glass provides employment to local artisans. With a staggering 60% waste of food in the Tourism industry worldwide, we a pride ourselves in ensuring zero food waste. Any extra produce from our farm is shared with the staff and those in need. Food scraps are given to our chicken or composted in our compost heap or by worms in our vermiculture unit. Materials such as wood and roofing materials are upcycled in our workshop, reused elsewhere or recycled. An example is our coconut-leaf (makuti) roof that was being replaced. Some of the makuti that was not badly off was used to make a roof for our vermiculture unit, the others were used as mulching material in our gardens and pastures. Replacing Makuti (coconut leave Chopping makuti for mulch and compost Makuti composting to feed the soil roofing) 12 Wood shavings from our wood workshop are used in the animal housing, after which they are composed to a certain degree and then fed to our red wriggler earthworms. The earthworms finish the composting process resulting in vermicasts, a valuable soil amendment that is packed with nutrients and microbiology for our soil. This is then applied either directly to our soils as topdressing or as liquid fertilizer from brewing worm tea. Paper waste is either composted or directly fed to he worms in our worm farm. In 2019, Ololo stopped the use of plastic water bottles. Instead, glass water bottles that are returned for refilling are used by the guest sduring Safari activities. Ololo source its water from a borehole that is on site and is neighbored by Mbagathi River. To ensure that these sources of water is protected and efficiently used Ololo had put several measures on line All black water from sinks systems and bathroom is recycled into good quality water for irrigation of our pasture for our animals. Ololo has additionally employed simple techniques such as tree cover and a banana circle to reduce the water loss by evaporation that us natural to the dry and arid area that it is located. Through Regenerative Land Management and Organic Farming practices, Ololo mitigates the use of chemicals and materials that can be particularly detrimental; to water quality if improperly disposed. Our worm beds are fed with precomposted organic matter, food scraps from the kitchen, garden waste and paper waste. 13 VALUE FOR OLOLO COMMUNITY We strive to share the value we create with our community. We bring premium and fair products and services to two interest groups – our customers and children in our community. Anti-corruption policy The quality and integrity of our employees and our work is paramount to everything Ololo Ltd. has zerowe do at Ololo. To support the highest ethical standards with all stakeholders that form the Ololo Community – agents, suppliers, government offices, guests and tolerance for bribery and customers and our CSR work in the community, we passed the Ololo Anti-corruption Policy statement, which will be referred to in all of our contracts with other corrupt activities businesses and employment agreements. From Ololo's Anticorruption Policy 14 Sharing Value with Our Guests and Customers From the odge to the farm, Ololo creates an experience that isn’t just about travel and food on a plate. It is about nurture for the mind body and soul with ethical, authentic quality food and hospitality. We are about sprouting a long-lasting curiosity on the impact the food one eats is grown and produced. We endeavor to enable our guests and customers to create a positive impact on the environment and community while traveling with us or consuming our products. The accommodation at Ololo continues the theme of sustainability and regeneration, which we hope contributes to our guests' mindsets on sustainable living space mindset. We hope that through the Ololo Experince, our guests and customers are inspired to make even the smallest change in mindset toward creating healthier, more harmonious existence with our soils, water, plants, animals and community. The Kitchen at Ololo We believe that it is the up and close experience of seeing how food is grown, produced and cooked that makes the eating of it so much more enjoyable. We have seen this from guest to guest as they visit the farm, learn the production methods and then sit at the table to enjoy our farm to fork meals. The Kitchen at Ololo is based on very simple steps pick, prep and serve. It is all about seasonality, freshness and diveristy. Bread, cakes and pastries are all baked in-house. We harvest our produce daily for the kitchen. All chicken and duck meat is grown at Ololo, as well as our fresh golden yellow eggs. Mushrooms are also harvested daily from our mushroom house for breakfast, or to top a delicious fillet of beef in the evening. The Kitchen at Ololo aims at reducing its food miles, therefore sourcing most of its vegetables on farm and only some from the local market. Ololo has created its supply chain policy and this coming year, we will be working to ensure that as many suppliers as possible to our kitchen are local, produce ethically and supply sustainably. 15 Accommodation at Ololo Ololo is firmly grounded in regeneration and restoration, we are passionate for making what exists even better than before. This can be seen right from the lodge’s buildings and décor. Rather than build a modern lodge, the now stylized boutique lodge is in starting a restored and repurposed old building. Ololo continues to respect its heritage, using coconut leaves for roofing that resounds the local culture. Among the favorites of our guests are the sophisticated Stable Rooms that once housed horses and the Stable Cottage that was the farm’s hay shed. The lodge design and interiors reveal of a collection of handcrafted furniture that is made by our skillful fundi carpenters. The workshop is an important recycling hub at Ololo where local artisan culture comes alive. As much as possible, wood and metal in Ololo is repurposed and up-cycled at the lodge workshop. All furniture in Ololo is made on-site. Communicating, hence preserving the two cultures – Kenyan and Australianthat merge at Ololo is the music that the décor sings. All around the interiors are handprinted fabrics and artwork from both of these cultures. Most of these are from artisans, who we are proud to support. Glass décor and some glassware are sourced from the nearby Kitengela Hot Glass, where we take our glass waste for recycling. 16 Products from Ololo Currently Ololo sells three products, 100% certified organic eggs, organic pasture raised chicken and organic pastured raised duck. We chose a way that we think is best to raise our poultry through regenerative and organic practices. By going an extra mile, we share with our customers the value of clean, hormone and antibiotic free, healthy, nutritious eggs and poultry meat. Our poultry are treated humanely through their life cycle and that have been able to contribute positively to the soil and environment, giving our customers a certain peace of mind in purchasing out products. 17 Sharing Value with Children Ololo believes in engaging children in sustainability and conservation activities. This way will they grow to be responsible adults in whichever fields of careers that they will be involved in. This is also a great way to help children come into awareness in the social economic issues that the world faces and giving them a simple tool box of what they can do to contribute in making the world a better place. We started three initiatives through which we work with Children Eco-Camps and Day Visits, Trees For Life, St. John's School Kibera Project. · Children Eco Camps Ololo Children Eco-Camps are three day stay in Ololo Lodge by children from low income families. These camps are a fun way of creating awareness and inspiring children into positive action on the issues of tourism, wildlife conservation, food systems and nutrition, climate change and health and well-being. The children get to have the full Ololo experience including a game drive at the adjacent Nairobi National Park, lodge and farm. We work with different partners to give the children multidimensional experience, which would enable them to see how sustainability and environmental conservation can be applicable in different settings. Ololo works with the Education Department of Nairobi National park, which gives the children a session on conservation and familiarizes them on what steps Kenya Wildlife Service takes to ensure natural ecosystems are conserved. We recently partnered with Brackenology to add a new dimension to the programme. Brackenology is based at Brackenhurst, a 20-year-old restored forest that aims to conserve indigenous trees. This partnership is important in emphasizing the crucial role of forests and trees, but also the story behind different indigenous trees of Kenya. 18 · St. Johns Kibera Project Ololo works with St. Johns School in Kibera slum to improve access to food by the school children and improve their learning environment. Firstly, by sharing food from our farm such as eggs and chicken. During this COVID 19 Pandemic when protein is hard to come by in Kibera, Ololo has been able to supply the three hundred families of the school children with chicken. Secondly, Ololo works with friends and partners to generate funds for the School Lunch Programme and to improve the school's infrastructure. In partnership with Nice Coffee Co. Ololo has been able to provide school lunch for 4 school terms and renovate the school's classrooms to provide better learning condition for children 19 Ololo Trees For Life Initiative Trees For Life is a programme that engages children in planting trees in their school and community. It is a long-term project that allows children to plant and take care of one tree in their school life. Once a child graduates from the school, he/she hands over the care of the tree to another child in a ceremony. The programme is designed to go beyond planting trees. It teaches children responsibility and a sense of giving back to the environment. It helps children connect with the natural world and with each other. It teaches recycling of materials and nutrients, and builds biodiversity by giving priority to important indigenous trees. In 2020, Ololo established a tree nursery with the aim of planting indigenous and fruit trees that can be planted in schools and in community spaces. 20 MOVING AHEAD: From definition to Impact Impact Assessment Renewable Energy Ololo will be seeking difference certifications and impact assessments Ololo will be transitioning into two renewable during the coming year including: energy source: Solar and Biogas. B -Corp Certification Eco-certification Measuring our Carbon Foot Print These will require an extensive audit of critical areas of our operations including our energy, gas, water and travel as well as measuring key indicators of all areas covered by the SDGs. 21
