2019 Nammo Sustainability Report 2 MESSAGE FROM THE CEO Our license to operate as a leading defense & aerospace company relies on responsible business practices and good corporate citizenship. In 2019, we took important steps to further strengthen our corporate responsibility in order to meet the expectations of our stakeholders, employees and the societies in which we operate. Nammo’s role as a manufacturer been done to identify the topics one step ahead. Being at the forefront and supplier of defense products most material to our operations on sustainability issues gives and services must be understood in close cooperation with our Nammo a comparative business in the context of national and employees and stakeholders. advantage and secures our license international security obligations These concern central aspects with to operate. I firmly believe that and needs. Security in our daily lives regard to our business and value our products and processes can is key to our well-being. Nammo chain integrity, employee safety contribute to a more sustainable is a trusted provider of defense and well-being, and environmental world, be it environmentally friendly materials and helps ensure the – and product stewardship. Each products and processes, energy technological expertise needed topic is elaborated on in this report, and water life cycle management to support EU and NATO allies. which will lay the foundation for or maybe sustainable propulsion The world is facing complex and our 2030 Global Sustainability technologies for use in future evolving security threats. Our Strategy to be developed in 2020. Moon or Mars missions. customers rely on our products In this year’s report, we are We reaffirm our commitment to and services to safeguard societal pleased to present an overview support the Ten Principles of the functions in peacetime, crisis of how Nammo is contributing to United Nations Global Compact in situations, armed conflict and the UN Sustainable Development the areas of Human Rights, Labor, war. Nammo’s license to operate Goals (SDGs). Other highlights Environment and Anti-Corruption. relies on the reputation of our in our sustainability efforts this These principles continue to play an industry, the level of trust in the year includes the establishment important part of the strategy, culture population, regulatory compliance, of a new and strengthened and day-to-day operations of Nammo. and stakeholder expectations. grievance mechanism and our Corporate responsibility and use of the OECD Responsible The report and data cover the period sustainability are therefore at Business Conduct Compass. January 1 to December 31, 2019. the core of our operations. Our ambition is to not only meet Throughout 2019 we have taken regulatory requirements, but to be several important steps to structure and strengthen our sustainability efforts. Considerable work has Morten Brandtzæg PRESIDENT & CEO Photo: Ivan Kverne/Finansavisen 3 Contents 2 MESSAGE FROM THE CEO 6 CHAPTER 1 24 CHAPTER 4 EMPLOYEE SUSTAINABILITY IN NAMMO SAFETY AND WELL-BEING 4 NAMMO AT A GLANCE 16 CHAPTER 2 28 CHAPTER 5 ENVIRONMENTAL 5 REPORTING FRAMEWORK BUSINESS INTEGRITY STEWARDSHIP 22 CHAPTER 3 VALUE CHAIN INTEGRITY 32 CHAPTER 6 PRODUCT STEWARDSHIP CHAPTER 1: CHAPTER 2: CHAPTER 3: VALUE CHAIN SUSTAINABILITY IN NAMMO BUSINESS INTEGRITY INTEGRITY 08 Stakeholder engagement 16 Anti-bribery and 22 Supplier governance & 10 Materiality assessment corruption controls social practices 11 Sustainability priorities 18 Human rights & labor 23 Supplier due diligence 12 Governance 20 Cybersecurity & 13 Compliance & risk proprietary information management 14 Export control CHAPTER 4: CHAPTER 5: CHAPTER 6: EMPLOYEE SAFETY AND ENVIRONMENTAL PRODUCT STEWARDSHIP WELL-BEING STEWARDSHIP 24 Occupational health 28 Climate risk 32 LIfe Cycle Management and safety 29 Waste & hazardous 32 Safe disposal 27 Anti-discrimination materials managment & Diversity 29 Emissions 30 Energy use 31 Water management Layout and production: Nammo AS Photo page 1: Nammo AS Photo pages 14, 17, 19, 21, 22, 24, 28: iStock 4 NAMMO AT A GLANCE LOCATIONS OWNERS EMPLOYEES 50% 33 2 404 50% 28 Production sites Patria Oyj & The Norwegian State, represented 25,3 % Women 5 Sales offices by the Norwegian Ministry of Trade, 74,7 % Men Headquarter in Raufoss, Norway Industry and Fisheries MARKET REVENUE BUSINESS UNITS 80% Defense & NOK 5 Aerospace 20% Commercial Billion 4 90 % of revenue generated by • Commercial Ammunition US and European markets. • Small and Medium Caliber Ammunition • Large Caliber Systems • Aerospace Propulsion Our product portfolio includes shoulderlaunched munitions systems, military and sports ammunition, rocket motors for military and space applications, and environmentally OUR VISION: SECURING THE FUTURE friendly demilitarization services. • We will develop and secure a long-term sustainable business for our customers and employees. • Our future development depends on a secure and safe working environment. We must emphasize the importance of every single employee. • We will protect our national and allied forces with high quality defense products. • We will secure the future development of eco-friendly products, processes and services. • We will secure further growth based on strong financial performance. OUR VALUES Our values are the fundamental principles guiding the way we do business and interact with stakeholders. These are: PRECISION: We are reliable and accurate in our technology, processes and business. DEDICATION: We are enthusiastic and creative, always searching for the best solutions. CARE: We are inclusive and open-minded, always encouraging team spirit and cooperation. 5 REPORTING FRAMEWORK This report support the Global Reporting Initiative (GRI) standards, which represent global best practices in sustainability reporting. The GRI standards are a trusted reference for policy makers and regulators worldwide as they encourage and enable credible non-financial reporting by companies under their jurisdictions. Nammo’s sustainability reporting is further and more specifically based on the following expectations and guidelines. Regulatory framework: The Norwegian Accounting Act The Norwegian Accounting Act requires that large enterprises report on corporate social responsibility in the Directors’ report or in a separate report. The report must include information about human rights, employee rights and social conditions, the environment and anti-corruption work. Reporting standard: Global Reporting Initiative In line with the GRI reporting principles, Nammo has conducted a materiality analysis identifying material topics. Nammo reports on topic-specific disclosures corresponding with the GRI Standard and other appropriate disclosures where the material topic is not covered by an existing GRI Standard. In these instances, Nammo has chosen to report using the Sustainability Accounting Standards Board (SASB) standards, as well as on custom indicators. • The report has been prepared in accordance with the GRI Standard: Core option. • Consolidation approach used for calculating emissions is financial control. • A GRI Index is available at www.nammo.com. Guidelines: WHITE PAPER NO. 8 (2019-2020) The Norwegian State's direct ownership of companies – Sustainable development The Norwegian state’s ownership expectations on corporate social responsibility and sustainability are: • Safeguarding of human rights and labor rights, reduction of climate and environmental footprint, and prevention of economic crime. • Publicly available tax policy. • Openness and transparency on significant areas, goals and measures in its work with responsible business conduct. • Materiality assessment to identify and determine priority areas. • Openness about, and reporting on, material topics identified. • Assessment of climate related risks and opportunities . • Continuous work on diversity, including gender balance, integrated into the company’s strategy. Guidelines: UN Global Compact The UN Global Compact requires participating companies to conduct business responsibly by aligning their strategies and operations with the ten principles on human rights, labor, environment and anti-corruption and to take strategic actions to advance broader societal goals including the UN SDGs. Participating companies are required to provide an annual Communication on Progress (COP). Nammo has been a Global Compact signatory since 2012. • We view this report to be our Communication on Progress to the UN Global Compact (active reporting level). Guidelines: The OECD Guidelines for multinational enterprises The OECD Guidelines for Multinational Enterprises (OECD Guidelines) are recommendations from governments to multinational enterprises on responsible business conduct. The OECD Guidelines set standards for responsible business conduct across a range of issues such as human rights, labor rights, and the environment. 6 CHAPTER 1: SUSTAINABILITY IN NAMMO Nammo supports and protects national and allied forces with high-quality defense products. Our social, environmental and ethical responsibilities are governed by our values and inform the decisions we make every day. Nammo is expected to conduct such as the UN Global Compact global sustainability strategy for the its business in a transparent and and abide by the OECD Guidelines group focused on goals towards responsible manner. This includes for Multinational Enterprises. This 2030. This included a thorough identifying material topics that commits us promoting human materiality assessment based on highlight Nammo’s priority and labor rights, protecting the the input from our most important issues on sustainability, mapping environment, ensuring antistakeholders. The result from the climate risks and opportunities, corruption efforts, and conducting assessment will form the basis working continuously on diversity, business in a global context of our sustainability priorities and supporting the United Nations consistent with applicable laws and and efforts in the years to come. Sustainable Development Goals. internationally recognized standards. Nammo will also develop goals and corresponding short and long-term We take these expectations seriously In 2019, Nammo started the targets to monitor our performance and participate in global initiatives important work to developing a throughout the strategy period. Nammo is a UN Global Compact signatory and works to help achieve the United Nations Sustainable Development Goals. 7 Photo: Sissel Solum/Nammo AS 8 Chapter 1 Sustainability in Nammo STAKEHOLDER ENGAGEMENT We put considerable effort into maintaining an open dialog with our stakeholders in the countries where we operate. Many of Nammo’s production sites are located in rural areas where they become major employers and of great importance to the local community. We continuously assess the potential impact and views of different stakeholders. Over the past two years we have conducted a stakeholder analysis and a materiality assessment involving several stakeholder groups. Although stakeholder engagement varies across the countries in which Nammo operates, the overview below provides insight on how, when, and with whom we engage on sustainability topics. • Local Community • Customers • Media • Partners • NGO’s • Distributors • Trade unions • End users • Suppliers Society Market Company Regulators • Top Management • Owners • Employees • Authorities • Employee representatives • Finance/Insurance • Future employees 9 Chapter 1 Sustainability in Nammo Stakeholder Engagement Frequency of Key topics and Nammo’s response groups type engagement concerns raised Owners Reports, meetings Monthly, quarterly, Governance, business Quarterly report on Finance, annually and compliance, Business, Governance. sustainability, Compliance program and occupational health & sustainability reporting safety Authorities Meetings, seminars, Monthly, quarterly, Business, regulations, Ability to address and respect conferences, political annually export control, ethics, regulatory compliance hearings CSR obligations E-mail, meetings, public On an as-needed Ethics, license to Transparency and openness, Civil Society events basis and driven by operate, export control responsiveness NGO events and arms trade, human Media Social media, interviews rights, sales, general Build knowledge and Network & on tv/radio/newspapers, business, local labor, understanding Associations own content environmental protection, local contribution Social responsibilty, local Membership, sponsor to sport, culture and committees, events Regulatory, ethics, science for youths. industrial cooperations, sustainability Good neighborliness Active participation and/or leadership in committees and work-groups Daily, weekly, Contract related, product Responsive actions and Customers & Customer meetings, monthly performance, safety support business integrity partners product demonstrations, and quality. Customer seminars, trade shows, satisfaction Customer satisfaction and Championships brand surveys Flow down of contracts, Communication of Supplier Suppliers Meetings, site visits, Daily, weekly, quality and delivery Conduct Principles, Supplier supplier forums, request monthly, annually questionnaire, quality audit, for tenders Modern Slavery Act Statement Daily, weekly, Business status, Use of Workplace, training Employees Internal communication monthly, annually strategy and profitability, and mentoring, Appraisal channels, team and Environment, diversity, reviews, Ethical Code of departmental meetings, ethic and anti-corruption, Conduct, IT instructions, HESS all-hands meetings, safety and IT Security policy, Surveys on employee surveys, collaboration satisfaction, branding & with unions, European sustainability, career day work council 10 Chapter 1 Sustainability in Nammo MATERIALITY ASSESSMENT In 2019, Nammo conducted a comprehensive materiality assessment in order to identify and prioritize potential environmental, social and governance (ESG) issues that could impact our business and our stakeholders. This assessment is a formal requirement for reporting in accordance with the Global Reporting Initiative (GRI) standard. Critical stakeholders from business, government and civil society were consulted, providing a valuable evaluation of Nammo’s risks and opportunities related to sustainability issues. Additionally, an extensive internal survey was conducted in order to understand how and which significant sustainability risks and opportunities impact our business. By matching the opinions of external stakeholders and employees, a matrix was produced, illustrating the sustainability issues that are most material and of highest importance to the company. Business partner due dilligence Waste & hazardous materials management Corporate governance efficiency Anti-bribery and corruption Supply chain: social practices controls HIGH IMPORTANCE EXTERNAL STAKEHOLDERS Human rights Illicit arms transfers Supply chain: environmental Supply chain: good governance and management anti-corruption standards Local contamination and biodiversity impact Product safety Emissions to air Phase out hazardous materials MEDIUM Occupational health and safety Political Transparency and stakeholder dialog accountability Lobbying & conflicts of interest Cyber security & proprietary Responsible AI information Water management technology development Labor rights & freedom of association Material sourcing & efficiency Diversity and equal opportunity Climate risks and opportunities Recycling of decommissioned (end-oflife) components Noise, fumes, dust and vibrations LOW Office environmental management Local community development Sponsoring and philanthrophy Talent attraction and retention Training and development Space waste Employee security LOW MEDIUM HIGH IMPORTANCE INTERNAL The materiality analysis has given Nammo a well-founded overview of the topics that are important to the business both from an internal and external perspective. This knowledge will make Nammo better positioned to: • prioritize and focus our sustainability efforts on the issues that the general public values. • develop and implement relevant sustainability ambitions and targets. • understand how events related to the different material topics could impact our business objectives, operation and strategic ambition. • ensure that our communication of sustainability efforts is concise and relevant to our stakeholders. Having conducted a materiality assessment, Nammo is better positioned to fullfil its ambition of a sustainable and secure future to the best interests of the employees, customers, shareholders and the civil society. 11 Chapter 1 Sustainability in Nammo SUSTAINABILITY PRIORITIES Nammo’s sustainability priorities are based on the results of the materiality assessment, the global initiatives in which we participate, and the laws and regulations to which we are subject. Sustainability theme Priorities Sustainable development goals Business integrity • Anti-bribery and corruption controls • Corporate governance efficiency • Human rights & labor • Cyber security & proprietary information • Illicit arms transfer Value chain integrity • Business partner due dilligence • Supply chain:social practices • Supply chain: good governance & anti-corruption standards Employee safety and well-being • Occupational health and safety • Anti-discrimination & Diversity Environmental stewardship • Climate risk • Waste & hazardous materials management • Emissions • Energy use • Water management Product stewardship • Product safety • Lifecycle management 12 Chapter 1 Sustainability in Nammo GOVERNANCE our 2019 Annual Report pages 48-49. Corporate governance is a key element in the short-term sustainability of Management of responsible business business operations, as well as in and sustainability preparing for long-term development The Chief Compliance Officer (CCO) of the company. Responsible corporate leads the operational management of, governance and management reduce and ensures compliance with, antirisks faced by the company and ensure bribery and corruption measures, efficient and sustainable utilization of export and trade regulations, resources. and responsible business and sustainability. The CCO reports Nammo’s governance system operationally to the Senior Vice encompasses its leadership culture, President Legal & Compliance and vision and values, Ethical Code of meets with the CEO on a quarterly Conduct, risk management, and basis to present and review the status reporting and control mechanisms. established under Norwegian law, of activities and discuss strategic and with a governance structure based operational topics. The CCO presents It has been developed by the Board on the Norwegian Limited Liability the status of compliance activities to of Directors and the Nammo Companies Act. The consolidated the Group Management on a regular management team to ensure financial statements have been basis and to the Board of Directors, compliance with relevant laws and prepared in accordance with the annually, or more frequently, if regulations, as well as efficient control Norwegian Accounting Act and the needed. The compliance overview is of business processes Norwegian Generally Accepted also part of the monthly reporting Accounting Principles (GAAP). For at Group level and to the Board of Corporate governance structure further information on Nammo Directors. Nammo is a limited liability company governance structure please refer to Ethics & Integrity Council (EIC) In 2019, Nammo replaced the previous operational Ethics Committee with an Ethics & Integrity Council. The Council is to act as an independent council across the organization. Its role is to advise the CCO on matters such as internal grievance mechanisms and policy developments. Duties, responsibilities, and activities are disclosed in the Annual Board Report. Governing responsible business & sustainability documents The way we conduct our business is based on our policies, procedures and guidelines Those most relevant for our sustainability efforts are listed in the table below. Sustainability related policies, procedures & guidelines Public: Ethical Code of Conduct Compliance Yes Anti-corruption manual Compliance Yes Supplier Conduct Principles Compliance Yes Modern Slavery Act Statement Compliance Yes HESS policy HESS No Do the Right Thing How to report concern Compliance No Procedure for Investigation Response Plan Compliance No Procedure for IT security ICT No IT User Instructions ICT No Policy for Disaster Recovery Planning ICT No Policy for Encryption ICT No BD No Procedure for Company Business Representation Procedure for Risk Evaluation Sales BD No 13 Chapter 1 Sustainability in Nammo The Chief Compliance Officer (CCO) is specific guidance for handling legal subsidiaries, business units and responsible for keeping Nammo’s Ethical corruption, conflicts of interest, corporate functions. Directives are Code of Conduct up to date. The Ethics harassment and discrimination. defined for areas such as strategy and Integrity Council shall revise the and business development, finance, Code before final approval by the Board of risk management, organizational The Nammo Management Directors. and employee development, HESS System (NMS) (Health, Environment, Safety The NMS describes how the company and Security), Communication, Nammo’s Ethical Code of Conduct outlines is managed and our approach to Information Technology and Legal & the overarching ethical principles that identifying and handling risks. Compliance. govern decisions and behavior for all The system includes governing employees and third parties acting on behalf documents (directives, procedures of our company. All Nammo employees and instructions) that are evaluated receive the Ethical Code of Conduct as regularly. The various responsibilities part of the onboarding process. It provides are each delegated to the relevant COMPLIANCE AND RISK MANAGEMENT Nammo’s corporate governance system governance system consists of a compliance program and a management system. This ensures that our business operations comply with applicable laws, regulations, and industry standards. The system also supports long-term development of the company and serves as an essential risk-mitigating factor for current and future operations. Corporate compliance in Nammo a continual basis to improve its The results of any evaluation and focuses on the three areas of suitability, adequacy and effectiveness. review of the program, including compliance: anti-bribery & corruption, This includes testing implemented recommendations for improvement, export & trade regulations, and controls and analyzing potential are reported to the Group responsible business & sustainability. violations or circumventions of the Management Team and the Board of These areas are based on the company´s policies, directives or Directors. company’s risk assessment and form processes. the foundation of Nammo’s compliance The compliance program is evaluated program. The program involves Nammo conducts employee surveys and assessed by a third party planning, monitoring, communication, to measure its compliance culture every third year and the results are and training in these three areas. and system of internal controls, reported to the Group Management monitoring, and communications. Team and the Board of Directors. The compliance program is evaluated, Surveys are also used to identify best The compliance program was reviewed and tested internally on practices and detect new risk areas. last evaluated in 2018 with a new evaluation set for 2021. In 2019 Nammo implemented a new internal grievance mechanism for misconduct. All reports are handled confidentially through our reporting channel, SpeakUp, which can be accessed by phone or online and with a specific country code as instructed in the “Do the Right Thing” manual. The service is managed by a third party who facilitates dialog between the company and the reporting employee. Employees can report in their native language and the system is available 24/7. Nammo does not have access to the individuals’ identity if they choose to report their concerns anonymously. The system is encrypted and GDPR compliant and can be used by all emloyees outside the US. A similar system will be established for all employees in the US during 2020. 14 Chapter 1 Sustainability in Nammo All reports made through the reporting. As embedded in our concerns compared to 39 in 2018. The SpeakUp system are forwarded to the Ethical Code of Conduct, Nammo majority of the concerns were in the company’s CCO, who then evaluates does not tolerate retaliation against category of behavioral misconduct them in cooperation with the Ethics any employee who raises a concern and were handled though the human and Integrity Council (EIC). Depending in good faith. resources department in the local line on the risk level or conflict of interest, organization according to company the CCO and the EIC can establish Third parties who would like to report procedure. Three concerns were an investigation response team. The concerns about Nammo are welcome raised directly to compliance: two response team shall follow the Group’s to do so by contacting ethics@ internally and one by an external Investigation Response Plan. nammo.com. This contact e-mail is stakeholder. Compliance completed also listed in our Supplier Conduct one investigation in Q1 and began Nammo expects its managers to Principles and the Ethical Code of another in Q4. The external case was emphasize the value of reporting Conduct. reported by an anonymous source. The compliance concerns promptly and case has been added to the company’s fostering an environment of open In 2019 there were 51 reported Dilemma Bank for future training sessions. RBC Compass Responsible Business Conduct (RBC) Compass Self-assessment tool In 2019, Nammo decided to test the OECD self-assessment tool, the Responsible Responsible Business Conduct Business Conduct Compass (RBC Compass). The Compass provides practical support to the company by 1. introducing the expectations for responsible business conduct set out in the OECD guidelines; 2. measuring the company’s performance on topics such as human rights, employment and industrial relations, the environment, consumer/customer interests, bribery and anti-corruption, taxation and competition regulation; 3. suggesting policy statements for the company to consider; and 4. providing graphical presentation of sustainability performance useful for internal and external communication, as well as gap analysis for further improvement. Nammo will continue to use the Responsible Business Conduct Compass as an internal self-assessment tool in 2020. EXPORT CONTROL Export control regulations are and defense policy, and that exports Although countries have their intended to ensure that defenseof dual-use items do not contribute to individual export control regimes, related products, technology and the proliferation of weapons of mass similar export control principles services are only exported in destruction (nuclear, chemical and apply across Nammo’s operating accordance with a country’s security biological weapons) or their means of countries, i.e., Norway, Switzerland, delivery. the United States and countries in the European Union. Common to all is the requirement of an export license approved by the national authorities 15 Chapter 1 Sustainability in Nammo when exporting defense products for Any infraction of export control Internal control and disclosures military purposes. rules could have a range of negative Similar to other internal procedures, consequences. Fines, export and export control systems are not License to operate import bans, and other sanctions all infallible. Even with our strict Nammo’s license to operate and pose serious threats to Nammo’s compliance and many safeguards in reputation as a reliable partner business and reputation. place, we recognize that an export hinges on our ability to conduct could still fall afoul of regulations. business in accordance with national Risk mitigation laws and regulations in all the We believe that it is a risk mitigating Internal review and control, in markets in which we operate. We will factor that all our production facilities addition to self-assessments, are key always comply with applicable export are located within the EU, Norway, tools for continuous improvement. If control regimes and authorizations. Switzerland and the United States. a deviation or problem is uncovered, Compliance with export regimes is All of Nammo’s production facilities we will investigate and prepare the responsibility of every Nammo have internal procedures in place for full disclosure. Nammo is employee. to protect our technologies and committed to working transparently processes and assure compliance with the authorities to identify any It is the duty of Nammo to provide all with national and international export weaknesses in our system and adjust required information to the relevant control agreements and regimes. procedures accordingly. export authorities. All products Each legal entity has in-house developed and manufactured experts to handle local rules and There is an international market for by Nammo shall comply with regulations. illegal procurement of technology for international law and every export military use. It is therefore essential of a Nammo product, technology or Understanding export control that Nammo demonstrate awareness service requires an export license regimes is core to keeping our with regard to due diligence on how from the national authorities in the business going. We work continuously business is performed and what type country of production. to raise awareness among our of products are sold to whom and in employees through regular export line with which regulations. control training and process improvement. STATUS 2019 • Nammo was not involved in any legal proceedings associated with incidents of corruption, bribery or illicit international trade in 2019. • Nammo trained more than 200 key employees engaging with controlled products and technologies in national and international export control regulations. KEY ACTIONS FOR 2020: • Develop and implement a global sustainability strategy. o Develop goals and targets for all prioritized areas. • Conduct a company-wide climate risks and opportunities assessment. • Explore the need to develop a separate tax policy. • Implement a new risk management tool and an overall risk management process in order to further strengthen our supply chain due diligence. • Further integrate human rights into due diligence and compliance in Nammo. • Review self-assessment of all legal entities according to OECD’s Responsible Business Conduct Compass. • Expand existing training protocols: o Make dilemma training an annual requirement for all employees in high-risk positions, including all management teams. o Implement web-based export control training. o Conduct “red flag” fraud awareness training in two countries and four locations. 16 CHAPTER 2: BUSINESS INTEGRITY Nammo aspires to develop and secure long-term sustainable business for our customers and employees. We believe that ensuring business integrity within the company and in our value chain is key to succeeding. The defense industry is exposed to risks such as corruption, cyberattacks, and leakage of proprietary information. Such risks can have severe consequences for Nammo, our business partners, and the societies in which we operate. Nammo therefore places a premium on managing and mitigating these risks. Moreover, we are committed to respecting and protecting human rights and ensuring that our ethical standards are upheld throughout our value chain ANTI-BRIBERY AND CORRUPTION CONTROLS Nammo has zero tolerance for corruption. We are committed to the United Nations Global Compact, including Principle 10, which commits us to working against corruption in all its forms. As we focus primarily on EU and Nammo’s policy and guidelines for NATO markets, we are less exposed handling corruption and bribery. to corruption than the industry as a This includes being familiar with The Transparency International 2019 whole. Ninety-three percent of our the Ethical Code of Conduct, taking Corruption Perception Index business comes from the EU, the part in training, seeking advice, and Nordic countries, and the United reporting any incidents. All Nammo COUNTRY CPI SCORE RANK States—markets which represent employees receive the Ethical Code of relatively low levels of corruption Norway 84 7 Conduct during onboarding. risk. The table to the right shows Sweden 85 4 the countries from where we Finland 86 3 Anti-bribery and corruption is operate and how they rank in the Germany 80 9 an essential part of the Nammo 2019 Transparency International Switzerland 85 4 Compliance Program (read more Corruption Perception Index (CPI). Spain 62 30 about this in chapter 1). Our The remaining seven percent of US 69 23 Chief Compliance Officer (CCO) our business (i.e., excluding the Ireland 74 18 is responsible for the design and EU, Norway, and the United States) UK 77 12 implementation of the Program, comprises markets in Asia, Oceania, which includes anti-bribery and and the Middle East, which include a corruption (ABC) communication and number of countries with equally low training. levels of corruption and regulation The Nammo Ethical Code of Conduct (e.g., Japan and Australia). For and the Anti-Corruption Manual are Our ABC training program comprises remaining markets in countries with based on regulations in line with the three modules: e-learning, dilemma medium to high level of corruption U.S. Foreign Corrupt Practices Act training, and proactive “red flag” risk Nammo has a rigorous sales (FCPA) and the UK Bribery Act 2010. fraud training. It is part of the risk evaluation before onboarding Moreover, Nammo’s legal entities must monthly compliance reporting to partners, customers and suppliers. adhere to their local authorities’ export the Board of Directors, and the A higher risk evaluation also regulations (see page 15). management group is regularly necessitates a more rigorous and informed of progress in the program. enhanced due diligence process. All employees must follow the Ethical Code of Conduct, which outlines See index here: https://www.transparency.org/cpi2019 Score from zero (highly corrupt) to 100 (very clean) Rank out of 180 countries evaluated 17 Chapter 2 Business Integrity “Red flag” fraud awareness training The e-learning module aims to raise Dilemma training is workshop training is a tailor-made training course awareness of ethics, anti-corruption for middle management employees for the administration and middle measures, and information security in high-risk positions. Five high-risk management at each subsidiary. among Nammo employees. A teams underwent the dilemma training Target groups are all administrative monthly exercise is distributed to in 2019. Nammo has developed an functions (sales, finance, contract, all employees who have access to in-house Dilemma Bank with around procurement, supply-chain, R&D, company computers in their local 30 different dilemmas covering areas management). After training is language. of culture, finance, business ethics, completed, corrective actions are procurement, and personal conduct. defined and will be subject to review. Workers without a company e-mail In 2019, 77 employees in the US and Optimally, “red flag” training should address do not receive the e-learning 8 employees in Norway received be repeated every three years. In training. The middle management dilemma training on ethics and anti2019, no “red flag” trainings were shall present the e-learning lessons corruption. carried out, but preparations were to these workers during their regular started for a training session to take meetings (at a minimum, monthly, place early 2020 in Germany. although meetings with production COUNTRY No of total Completed staff are daily or weekly). employees e-learning Employees of newly acquired US 589 83 % companies must all partake in a In 2019, 1 750 (out of 2 404) Norway 791 79 % program introducing Nammo’s employees were invited to complete Sweden 287 53 % company culture and the Ethical the training modules resulting in a Finland 340 53 % Code of Conduct and an interactive completion rate of 88 percent. Germany 155 34 % workshop with a set of different Spain 160 45 % ethical dilemmas to be presented The e-learning exercises are also a Switzerland 12 100 % and discussed. This training shall requirement for all external sales UK 43 100 % be accomplished within the first 100 representatives and the external Ireland 22 100 % days after the acquisition and is a board members. As of 2019, all Australia 1 100 % part of our general risk management Nammo’s board members had India 1 100 % procedures when acquiring new completed the e-learning training. Poland 0 0% companies. In 2020, Transparency International will publish their Defense Companies Index on Anti-Corruption and Corporate Transparency (DCI). The DCI Index measures the transparency and quality of ethics and anti-corruption programs in the world’s largest defense companies. The DCI 2020 will assess 140 of the world’s leading defense companies across 39 countries. The DCI includes Nammo and serves as an important benchmark for our governing system for anti-bribery and corruption controls. The Index was previously published in 2012 and 2015. Nammo engaged closely with Transparency International during 2019 as part of the review to be released in 2020. 18 Chapter 2 Business Integrity STATUS 2019 Anti-bribery and corruption controls • Nammo has not been subject to any investigations, fines, or sanctions in 2019 relating to any ethical breach of laws or regulations. • Eighty-eight percent of Nammo employees completed the e-learning training (on ethics and IT security). • Dilemma training completed for 85 employees in high risk positions. TARGET 2020 Anti-bribery and corruption controls • Continue to raise awareness through mandatory e-learning program. • Revise the Ethical Code of Conduct. • Expand our dilemma training to all employees in high-risk position in all our locations. • “Red flag” fraud training of 4 locations in two countries. • Evaluate use of new fraud and corruption risk methodology. HUMAN RIGHTS AND LABOR Nammo is committed to respecting and protecting human rights in all its operations. We support and respect the protection of internationally proclaimed human rights including the International Bill of Human Rights, the core International Labor Organization (ILO) Conventions and the UN Guiding Principles on Business and Human Rights (UNGP). As a signatory to the UN Global Compact, we are committed to the following principles concerning human rights and labor. Namely, businesses should • support and respect the protection of internationally proclaimed human rights (Principle 1), • make sure that they are not complicit in human rights abuses (Principle 2), • uphold the freedom of association and the effective recognition of the right to collective bargaining (Principle 3), • support the elimination of all forms of forced and compulsory labor (Principle 4), • support the effective abolition of child labor (Principle 5), and • support the elimination of discrimination in respect of employment and occupation (Principle 6). Every entity at Nammo is responsible employees shall have safe and secure development, equal pay for equal for ensuring that the Group does working conditions. Our human work, and working conditions. not violate human rights in any of resources policy shall ensure equal its business operations, as well as opportunities and rights and prevent Supporting freedom of association being aware of its corporate social discrimination on the grounds of We strongly support freedom of responsibility in the local community. gender, ethnicity, national origin, skin association and collective bargaining Internal control of the company’s color, language, sexual orientation, as per the ILO standard. Seventy entities is a continuous process marital status, religion, philosophy percent of Nammo’s workforce is performed to secure compliance of life, and/or age. This applies, in covered by collective bargaining with the ILO standards. Nammo particular, to recruitment, career agreements. All employees are 19 Chapter 2 Business Integrity covered by such agreements where rights risks are to be identified as services in connection with work they exist, regardless of whether or part of the risk management process or assignments for the company. not an employee is a union member before sales are made to countries In this way, Nammo contributes to (with the exception of the executive evaluated as medium to high risk combating human trafficking. management team). We deem there outside the EU and NATO. Key risks to be a low risk of violation when it regarding certain countries include As risks may be higher in the supply comes to Nammo’s own operations; geopolitical changes taking place chain, we expect all suppliers to however, we have identified a higher after contract signature. comply with our Supplier Conduct risk in our supply chain. Principles which are supported by our Combating human trafficking Modern Slavery Act Statement. The Human rights considerations Nammo will not tolerate any form statement is also intended to combat in export of harassment based on race, color, forced or compulsory labor, even if Human rights considerations are religious affiliation, national origin, there is a low risk of such incidents also part of the export controls for citizenship, age, gender, sexual in Nammo’s own operations. Further many of the countries we operate orientation, marital status, disability, information on human rights and in. Nammo considers national and or any other such discriminating labor requirements for our suppliers international regulations for export factors. Even in countries without can be found under the chapter about of defense material an integral part a legal prohibition, Nammo does Value Chain Integrity. of our work on human rights. Human not permit the purchase of sexual STATUS 2019 Human rights and labor • There were no reported incidents of discrimination resulting in a legal verdict. • Implemented a new grievance mechanism. SpeakUp, for anonymous reporting at all European sites. • Modern Slavery Act Statement 2019 was published. TARGET 2020 Human rights and labor • Develop human rights policy based on human rights risk assessment. • Implement an e-learning program on human rights to be completed on a regular basis for targeted employees. • Further integrate human rights into due diligence and compliance at Nammo. • Implement a new grievance mechanism in the US... 20 Chapter 2 Business Integrity CYBERSECURITY AND PROPRIETARY INFORMATION In Nammo, we work continuously to reduce the risks related to cybersecurity. Our IT strategy outlines the main efforts, including improving technical security, limiting the attack surface, and raising awareness levels among employees. Cybersecurity threats pose financial, reputational and societal risks. Appropriate IT security measures are critical to safeguarding vital product information generated by the Nammo Group, its customers, and its suppliers. Like most defense and aerospace companies, Nammo experiences cyberattacks on a regular basis. Security incidents are related to fraud, sabotage, extortion, or attempts to retrieve proprietary information. Nammo must comply with the relevant IT security and privacy regulations in all countries where we are present. Compliance with cybersecurity guidelines falls under the Finance & IT organization under the leadership of the Chief Financial Officer of the Nammo Group. Proprietary Information (PI) is one of Nammo’s most valuable resource. It is the intangible lessons and experiences we have amassed over the years, that make Nammo what it is. Effective protection of Nammo’s PI in addition to making sure we have secure IT-systems and protection against unauthorized access from outside Nammo, is done by ensuring proper Non-Disclosure Agreements are in place whenever there is a need to disclose Nammo PI to any third parties and affix appropriate marking of sensitive documents in order to ensure that our PI is not diverted to any unauthorized third parties or is being exploited against Nammo’s interest. STATUS 2019 Cybersecurity and proprietary information • There have been no reports of major cybersecurity violations or loss of proprietary information. • Cybersecurity continues to be a strong focus for Nammo due to the nature of the products manufactured by the group. Nammo Raufoss has invested in security improvements during the year with support from Norwegian national security authorities. • In an effort to improve the Nammo Group’s IT security, the core network services in Europe are in the process of being certified in accordance with the ISO 27001 standard for information security management. • Annual digital communication to employees about how to protect company intellectual property. TARGET 2020 Cybersecurity and proprietary information • Continue to raise IT security awareness through e-learning training. • Achieve ISO 27001 certification for Nammo Raufoss AS. • Continue to improve capabilities to prevent and detect malicious software. • Continue to create awareness about protection of intellectual property rights. 21 Chapter 2 Business Integrity 22 CHAPTER 3: VALUE CHAIN INTEGRITY To Nammo, value chain integrity means that all our business partners operate in an ethical manner that safeguards human rights and worker’s rights while protecting the environment. Our business partners include Supplier governance and social accordance with local legislative joint-venture partners, suppliers, practices requirements, sub-contractors, consultants, sales Nammo’s Ethical Code of Conduct • not engage in or support the use of representatives, distributors, and and Supplier Conduct Principles state forced or compulsory labor, customers. We are convinced that high our requirements and expectations • not procure work or service from value chain integrity produces high for business practices, personal any person under the threat of any quality products and services, thereby conduct, and working conditions menace, increasing our competitiveness. to our business partners. The • allow employees reasonable notice principles are founded on the UN to leave their employment, Our supply chain consists of suppliers Global Compact’s ten principles and • not insist that employees must of raw materials and components, subthe International Labor Organization surrender ID papers or work contractors, and providers of various (ILO) conventions. All business permits as a condition for services such as transportation and partners are required to comply with employment, freight forwarding, maintenance, these guidelines and with applicable • encourage the development and and consulting. As a general rule, national and international laws. diffusion of environmentally local suppliers are to be sourced if friendly technologies, and competitive. Most of our suppliers are The Supplier Conduct Principles were • act in accordance with relevant located in Europe and North America revised in 2019. They specifically local and internationally recognized with a few suppliers in Asia and South address the supplier’s obligation environmental standards. Africa. to conduct business in compliance with modern slavery and human Supplier due diligence and control We estimate to have more than trafficking legislation. Environmental Each of Nammo’s legal entities 7 000 registered suppliers, of which requirements are also stated, and business units is responsible close to 500 are strategic. A strategic committing our suppliers to minimize for undertaking appropriate due supplier can be a supplier pretheir negative environmental diligence on its respective suppliers qualified by the end-customer or one impact, continuously improve their to ensure all suppliers offered who sells goods with high quality environmental performance, and contracts meet Nammo’s standards. and/or high technological content at prevent and mitigate environmental We have a risk-based due diligence competitive prices. and health-related risks. In process in the selection and use of particular, suppliers are required to: business partners. The degree of due diligence depends on the type • comply with all applicable child of business partner, the country labor laws, and set employees’ or countries involved, the size and working hours and pay in nature of the transaction, and the historical relationship with the third party. Nammo 2019 Modern Slavery Act Statement 23 Chapter 3 Value chain integrity Joint ventures and industrial partners representatives representing the can be classified as critical based on are evaluated on anti-bribery and following regions: Europe, North several criteria such as the size of corruption using a risk-based America, South America, South East the company, its geographic location, approach. For the selected partner, Asia Middle East and South Africa. and whether it is a sole source a full risk-based anti-bribery and All sales representatives undergo the or provides a critical component. corruption due diligence review is company’s due diligence procedure. Suppliers are vetted against various performed in accordance with the If they are approved they are only lists, including sanctions lists and company processes involving the allowed to operate in accordance with lists identifying red flags, including legal and compliance departments. a written agreement with Nammo. debarments. All representatives are re-evaluated All our business partners receive and every second year and are under Nammo is committed to cooperating are obligated to observe Nammo’s continuous monitoring. with suppliers to ensure that Ethical Code of Conduct upon signing they have appropriate ethical and a contract with us. Additionally, all Nammo performs regular audits of responsible policies and practices third-party sales representatives the supply chain in order to review in place and to supporting them in must complete the monthly quality and compliance with the closing any gaps the self-assessment e-learning program on ethics and Supplier Conduct Principles and how may identify. We are currently IT security. Nammo also requires flow down is handled throughout the developing a global framework to all external board members and supply chain. All suppliers must fill improve third-party risk management special consultants to sign the Ethical in a selfassessment questionnaire which will be implemented in 2020. Code of Conduct and participate in when being contracted. Suppliers the monthly e-learning awareness considered critical to Nammo are program on ethics and IT security. every second year subject to a selfDuring 2019, Nammo had 33 sales assessment questionnaire. A supplier STATUS 2019 Value chain integrity • No issues of negative social impacts in the supply chain were registered. • Third party sales representatives had 90% completion rate of the monthly e-learning program on ethics and IT security. • The Supplier Conduct Principles were revised. TARGET 2020 Value chain integrity • Implement a new risk management tool and an overall risk management process to further strengthen supply chain due diligence. • Review flow down requirements of suppliers, focusing on sustainability-related expectations. 24 CHAPTER 4: EMPLOYEE SAFETY AND WELL-BEING Nammo’s success relies on the highly skilled people working in our company. Ensuring our employees’ safety, well-being and development is therefore a key priority for us. Nammo is dedicated in its focus on ensuring a secure and safe working environment for its employees. Our operators can Permanent Temporary be exposed to occupational health and safety risks, meaning employees employees tailored governance and management systems are required to Germany 148 7 reduce the risk of harm. We strive Switzerland 12 0 to have a just and modern working Spain 153 7 environment where our employees Finland 335 5 are valued and supported. Sweden 264 23 Norway 791 0 Throughout 2019, we have focused US 573 16 on competence development Australia 1 0 and diversity. We are pleased to India 1 0 see that the turnover rate in the Ireland 22 3 Nammo Group is low, indicating UK 43 0 a good working environment. Total 2 343 61 Total number of employees by December 31, 2019: 2404 OCCUPATIONAL HEALTH AND SAFETY Nammo’s employees are exposed to health and safety risks related to handling energetic materials, mechanical manufacturing, heat treatment, chemical surface treatment, and assembly operations. Health, Environment, Safety, and Security (HESS) matters always have the highest priority, even if there is a conflict with other business objectives. Nammo’s occupational health and annually and applies to all employees hazardous situations, and access safety management is based on the at all our sites; however, it allows to non-occupational medical and legal requirements of each of the for local adaptations to comply with healthcare services. 12 countries where we are located. national and local requirements. The HESS policy provides guidelines The Board of Directors carries the for how our employees shall handle Each site has its own system and overall responsibility for HESS, health and safety issues in their policies in accordance with national which includes ensuring that the workplace. It includes systematic regulations regarding how to report appropriate management and follow-up and reporting of all work-related hazards and hazardous control systems are in place. The dangerous conditions, near misses, situations, instructions for workers to HESS director is responsible for and accidents. The policy is reviewed remove themselves from potentially administering the occupational health 25 Chapter 4 Employee safety and well-being and safety system in daily operations The quality and competence of the and reports directly to the CEO. The personnel carrying out risk analyses HESS director is tasked to ensure All employees engaged in is assured by annual audits conducted that all employees are given adequate the handling and storage of by the Group HESS director and information and training to perform potentially hazardous substances continuing training conducted during their work in accordance with receive annual physical checkups the annual HESS seminars. Annual applicable regulations and policies. to monitor any changes that reviews during HESS audits are used An HESS audit is performed annually could result from working in to evaluate and continually improve at each operating location. proximity to such substances. the occupational health and safety This is part of Nammo’s efforts management system. Each site has its own form of to ensure occupational health HESS committee or Safety Council and safety. LTI’s are reported to the Group HESS that meets regularly. Employee director using an accident report representatives participate in these template requesting information meetings to ensure that production The system allows for the about the root cause analysis and staff members’ input is heard in identification and evaluation of actions taken at the site to prevent order to contribute to the overall hazards, which in turns aids us in reoccurrence of similar hazards. site occupational health and safety determining risks and proposing High-potential near misses and culture. Results from these meetings mitigating actions. accidents are shared throughout the are shared openly. company via a “safety flash” format Monthly reports are collected to summarize facts and findings Annual seminars with relevant from all sites. Hazard analyses are about a particular incident to promote personnel and management are reviewed any time there is a change in organizational learning. organized to review incidents in order procedure, equipment, or staffing to to identify trends and develop risk evaluate possible effects to the overall Workers can submit reports mitigation strategies as well as raise risk picture. Each site is required to anonymously via the Nammo Group the HESS staff’s general level of review risk analyses every five years SpeakUp reporting system in knowledge. if no changes have been made (with Europe, and a similar system will be some countries requiring reviews implemented in the United States. more often). Reducing both the total number of lost time injuries (LTIs) and the LTI value (LTIs per 1 million working hours) has been, and will continue to be, a priority for Nammo. Our HESS management system is based on ISO 45001, which aims to reduce occupational injuries and diseases, and the ISO 31000 standard on risk management. All workers, activities, and workplaces in Nammo are covered by the occupational health and safety management system. Photo: Nammo AS 26 Chapter 4 Employee safety and well-being Reprisals against whistleblowers are and feedback is requested to ensure • Governing policies, directives, and explicitly prohibited as stated in our that training is relevant and up to regulations. Ethical Code of Conduct. date. Each site’s annual occupational • HESS targets and plans. Occupational health and safety health and safety training plan is • Information on accidents, hightraining is conducted during the reviewed during the annual Group potential near misses, and onboarding process for all new HESS audit. observed trends employees. Each site has an annual • Training and education. training plan to cover specific workTwenty-four Group HESS audits were • Internal HESS routines for HESS. related hazards, hazardous activities, completed at Nammo’s facilities in • Audits and documentation. and hazardous situations. Training is 2019. Annual audits are conducted • Risk analyses, emergency planning delivered through a mix of web-based in accordance with the procedure and exercises. solutions and face-to-face training. developed by the HESS director. All training is conducted during Highlights from the annual audit working hours in each site’s native agenda include the following areas: language; attendance is recorded, Number of fatalities 0 Number and rate of high-consequence injuries 0 Number and rate of recordable work-related injuries 28 lost time injuries (LTI) for an LTI Value of 6.3 Total number of hours worked 4 481 924 Main types of work-related injuries Slips and falls, hand/finger injuries,and back injuries were the most common LTIs in 2019. STATUS 2019 Occupational health and safety • No life-threatening injuries or fatalities were reported. This is consistent with performance and maintained improvements since 2017. • There were two reported cases of contact dermatitis at sites working with resins/glues. Personal protective equipment, exposure time, and procedures were reviewed and modified to alleviate the issues. • Sick absence remained unchanged from 2018 at 3.7 percent. TARGET 2020 Occupational health and safety • Enhance the HESS program structure at all Nammo’s locations by requiring all employees responsible for HESS to complete Lean 6Sigma Green Belt training during 2020/2021. • Reduce total number of LTIs by 25 percent (goal of 20 LTIs) while maintaining zero LTI vision; reduce LTIs related to improper use of personal protective equipment (PPE) from five in 2019 to zero. • Reduce LTI Value by 25 percent from 2019 performance with a goal LTI value and LTI/million working hours of 5. • Maintain a low level of sick absence (3.6 percent). 27 Chapter 4 Employee safety and well-being ANTI-DISCRIMINATION AND DIVERSITY Nammo is committed to creating a working environment that values diversity, is free from unlawful discrimination and harassment, and is based on the principle of equal opportunity and affirmative action. Our Ethical Code of Conduct states In the event of discriminatory behavior, 587 that Nammo will not tolerate any form we encourage employees to report the of harassment based on race, color, matter through their line management, Full-time religion, religious affiliation, national HR or via our SpeakUp channel as employees origin, citizenship, age, gender, sexual instructed in our Ethical Code of Conduct. orientation, marital status, disability, or 1773 Nammo will not retaliate against any any other such discriminating factors. individual who, in a responsible manner, This is also stated in our Human informs about possible breaches of our Resource Directive, which sets out to ethical guidelines, applicable laws or Men Women ensure that equal opportunities and questionable circumstances in Nammo’s rights are given to all our employees. business. Requests for anonymity will 25 Additionally, Nammo is subject to always be honored. Temporary national security authorities’ rules and employees 36 regulations for personnel. Permanent employees The Board of Directors carries the overall responsibility to prevent 25,3 % Men Women discrimination from occurring and to ensure that Nammo has a diverse workforce. These areas are Part-time 17 74,7 % managed by the Human Resource (HR) 21 employees department and led by the Senior Vice President Human Resources, who is responsible for following up the operations through the local human Men Women Men Women resources managers on a monthly basis. Shown figures in percentage Shown figures per person We are working actively through training and recruitment campaigns to increase the number of female employees and to motivate women to apply for management positions. Several initiatives were established in 2019 to enhance competence development and diversity in the company, including the establishment of the Nammo Academy, leadership development programs, and an internal mentoring program. STATUS 2019 Anti-discrimination and diversity • Women made up 25.3 percent of the total workforce. • Women made up 33.3 percent of the Board of Directors. • Women made up 25 percent of management. • The Nammo Academy, leadership development programs, and an internal mentoring program were established. TARGET 2020 Anti-discrimination and diversity • Achieve a measurable improvement in gender balance compared to 2019. • Improve succession planning tool and relate to development. • Start a new mentoring group. • Start at least two groups for the leadership development program. 28 CHAPTER 5: ENVIRONMENTAL STEWARDSHIP Nammo has a direct impact on the environment through its production and testing of ordnance products and services, consumption of paper and energy, waste management, procurement, and use of transport. Compliance with laws and regulations is the minimum requirement; however, best practices should always be considered. As part of new product development, Initiation of Lean 6Sigma In 2019, no audits focused solely on any environmental issues are improvement projects to address environmental issues; nevertheless, analyzed and resolved or reduced any environmental issues is part of environmental issues were reviewed to the extent possible. In addition, the mandate of each site’s Business as an agenda topic during the annual conflict minerals and counterfeit Improvement Team. HESS audit at each of Nammo’s sites. materials are assessed. Flow down Our HESS directive requires all sites of requirements and related risk Over fifty percent of Nammo to review environmental improvement analysis within the supply chain are employees work at sites certified plans annually and report any also conducted. in accordance with ISO 14001, an nonconformities. internationally recognized standard that sets out the requirements for an environmental management system. CLIMATE RISK The impacts of global climate changes are monitored and evaluated, and we have determined that climate change has only a minor impact on our facilities. Currently, only physical risks, and the consequential financial risks, are considered in relation to climate risks and opportunities. One Nammo site is considered to be threatened by climate change risk. Operations in Bay St. Louis, Mississippi could be impacted by rising sea levels and more intense storms. Potential impacts of this risk include an interruption of operations and the need to relocate operations to another Nammo site within the United States. Consequential financial risks are associated with potential business interruption and capital expenditures to purchase/ move equipment to a new operating location. Distribution pattern of muddy fresh water from the Mississippi River as it flows into the Gulf of Mexico. New Orleans. Colorful collage. The elements of this image furnished by NASA. stock photo. USA, Aerial View, Beauty, Blue, Chandelier 29 Chapter 5 Environmental stewardship WASTE AND HAZARDOUS MATERIALS MANAGEMENT Our company consistently monitors the handling of our hazardous material to ensure we are in accordance with national environmental laws and regulations. All Nammo sites must comply with the European REACH regulations (Registration, Evaluation, Authorization and Restriction of Chemicals), which aim to protect human health and the environment from risks posed by chemicals. Waste is handled in accordance with national laws and regulations at each operating location. Our goal is to minimize the amount of waste destined for landfills by delivering waste for recycling or combustion with energy recovery. At Nammo, we continuously monitor actual and potential accidental release of hazardous substances that could affect human health, soil, and water. REACH impacts all Nammo Group sites and efforts are underway at all sites to work proactively in identifying substitute substances and materials that minimize potential harm to human health and the environment. Downstream customers are informed of all candidate list substances exceeding REACH defined thresholds in Nammo products in accordance with REACH reporting requirements. EMISSIONS In Nammo, we follow up and measure waste emissions to water and the atmosphere, work to reduce noise levels, and handle other environmental factors in accordance with existing regulations and internal instructions. We currently face some environmental challenges related to following up historically polluted areas at two sites. This is considered to be under control and is being followed up through internal plans for improvements and in close cooperation with national authorities. Emissions to air are reported according to the Greenhouse Gas (GHG) Protocol as scope 1, 2, and 3 emissions.1 TCO2-E SCOPE 1 : Direct emissions from sources owned or controlled by the company 1 641.55 SCOPE 2 2,3: Indirect emissions from purchased electricity 25 436.22 SCOPE 3 4: Indirect, upstream sources not owned or controlled by the company 4 138.18 GHG emissions intensity ratio calculated for total emissions amounts to 6.15 kg/CO2e per 1 000 NOK revenue. 1 Calculated based on emissions from air travel and emissions data from all production sites, with the exception of SN Technologies (SNT), Nammo UK (Westcott site and Cheltenham site), Nammo Ireland, and MAC LLC in Bay St. Louis, MS, USA. Nammo will aim to report emissions from all production sites in next year’s reporting. 2 Location-based scope 2 emissions. 3 Emission factors for purchased district heating are calculated based on an average of country level publicly available emissions factors. For Spain, the emission factor for purchased electricity are used for calculating district heating emissions as well. 4 Calculation of emission from waste is based on best estimate given available information and established emission factors. For hazardous waste, the emission factor used is based on the average emission factor for similar waste types. 30 Chapter 5 Environmental stewardship ENERGY USE Energy efficiency measures provide economic and environmental benefits. For this reason, reducing energy consumption and energy conservation measures are a high priority at all sites. By using alternative energy sources, Nammo has already made significant cost savings. All sites shall have at least one energy saving, water conservation, or other environmental impact reduction project. Project status is reviewed during annual Nammo Group HESS audits. Energy consumption at production units 0 %3 % 3% 1% 28 % 65 % Fuel oil Natural gas Diesel and petrol Purchased electricity Purchased district heating Purchased district cooling Reported energy consumption at our production sites was about 102.13 GWh in 2019. Consumption of fossil fuels counted for 7 percent, purchased electricity 65 percent, and purchased district heating about 28 percent. 31 Chapter 5 Environmental stewardship WATER MANAGEMENT The Nammo Group operates at 28 production sites in 9 countries. There are wide variations in water consumption requirements and associated impacts related to this consumption based on the type of production at each site. All sites comply with national and local regulations regarding water effluent quality, discharge, withdrawal, consumption, and impacts from runoff. The Nammo Group does not have internally developed water quality standards or guidelines; we adhere to national and local requirements at each of our sites. Currently, each site analyzes its water consumption annually and works to identify ways to reduce consumption. Where water consumption is an issue, the sites engage with local stakeholders. The Nammo Group has an overall goal of reducing water consumption at each site year-over-year, and progress is reviewed during annual Nammo Group HESS audits. Total water consumption from all production sites amounts to 1 710.26 megaliters. Recovery 2 investments at Vihtavuori will enable roughly equivalent to the CO2 emissions created by driving Nammo to close the ether factory’s cooling water 5 million km with the average car. circuit which utilizes water from Lake Siikajärvi, thereby decreasing water consumption at the factory by more The factory’s total energy consumption will be reduced than 250 000 cubic meter annually. The equipment by 5 percent and water consumption will be decreased 55 includes a massive heat pump, which recovers heat percent compared to 2015. from the cooling water circuit to be reused in the district Water consumption Mm3, rolling 12 months heating network in the nearby area. 1,6 1,4 RECOVERY 1 1,2 For a total investment of approximately Euro 600 000, 1,0 RECOVERY 2 Nammo Vihtavuori estimates annual energy savings of 0,8 approximately 2 000 MWh, which is roughly equivalent 0,6 to the annual energy consumption of 100 family homes. 0,4 As a result of the energy savings, CO2 emissions should 0,2 be reduced by approximately 590 metric tons, which is 0,0 1/15 3/15 5/15 7/15 9/15 11/15 1/16 3/16 5/16 7/16 9/16 11/16 1/17 3/17 5/17 7/17 9/17 11/17 1/18 3/18 5/18 7/18 9/18 11/18 1/19 3/19 5/19 7/19 9/19 11/19 1/20 3/20 5/20 7/20 9/20 11/20 Water Consumption Project at Nammo Vihtavuori, Finland STATUS 2019 Water management • Nammo experienced no compliance violations of environmental legislation. • No significant spills were recorded. • Data was collected to establish a baseline for comparison when establishing future KPIs. TARGET 2020 Water management • Conduct a company-wide climate risk and opportunities assessment • Define clear reduction targets for Nammo’s environmental footprint in 2030 to support Sustainability Strategy. 32 Chapter 6 Product stewardship CHAPTER 6: PRODUCT STEWARDSHIP Nammo believes that responsibility for a product starts during the innovation process. We focus strongly on the use of environmentally friendly materials in our production lines and processes. For existing products, issues are evaluated and addressed through design and process failure mode and effects analysis (DFMEA’s and PFMEA’s) and value stream mapping (VSM). For new products, all aspects of health and safety are analyzed and problems are eliminated or reduced to the extent possible during the development process. Life cycle management Nammo takes responsibility for the entire product life cycle, providing recycling and environmentally controlled disposal of obsolete munitions and propulsion systems for various customers around the world. All processes meet strict environmental standards, minimizing emissions to air and water. When relevant, surveillance programs are established to check the conditions of munitions and propulsion systems during their lifetime. The purpose of such programs is to evaluate functionality and whether the product is still safe to store, handle, and use. All our products must be able to meet stringent national, international, aerospace and military standards. Compliance with these requirements results in products exhibiting high performance, safety, and top quality. Safe disposal The demilitarization market has changed fundamentally over the past few years, and Nammo had to change accordingly. Unfortunately this led to reductions in staff and the closure of one of our facilities in Germany, but we still believe there is a place in the market for our demilitarization operations in Sweden and in Norway. They will ensure that we will continue to offer our highly specialized demilitarization services to the international market. Since Nammo was founded in 1998, we have remained a significant player in the European demilitarization market. Nammo has specialized in offering safe and environmentally friendly dismantling, recycling, or destruction of old or obsolete munitions. Since the signing of the Convention on Cluster Munitions in 2008, this has included thousands of tons of decommissioned cluster munitions from Cold War stores across Europe. Now the final remnants of these stores are all but gone. A significant part of this work has been done by Nammo’s demilitarization businesses in Germany, Sweden and Norway. This has been a major undertaking, and one that our employees have completed with incredible skill and commitment. Nammo is proud of the significant role we have been playing in the work to environmentally friendly dispose off a large part of the western worlds cluster munitions. Photo: Nammo AS 33 Chapter 6 Product stewardship Nammo’s presence in the space sector was initiated through participation in the European Space Agency’s Ariane 5 project in the early 1990s. Nammo will also be involved in the new European launchers Vega and Ariane 6. On Vega, Nammo will replace the existing hazardous rocket motors for attitude control with non-hazardous rocket motors using a sustainable propellant. The technology behind these small thrusters that use H2O2 (hydrogen peroxide) was developed by Nammo to replace the motors on scientific rockets with sustainable alternative. This new generation of hybrid rocket motors is suitable for scientific sounding rockets as well as for the upcoming new class of micro-launchers. Collectively, these activities have led to Nammo’s participation in development projects for future Moon missions utilizing our expertise to develop a new generation of high performance rocket motors based on sustainable and possibly locally sourced propellants enabling sustainable presence on the Moon or Mars. STATUS 2019 Product Stewardship • There were no incidents of non-compliance concerning the health and safety impacts of ur products and services. TARGET 2020 Product Stewardship • Start implementing sustainability into product related processes by minimizing our product’s environmental impact throughout all stages of the product life cycle. Photo: Artist view of VEGA-E © ESA-Jacky Huart, 2017 For more information about sustainability in Nammo please contact compliance@nammo.com Nammo AS P.O. Box 142 NO-2831 Raufoss Norway www.nammo.com
