Responsible Business About the Report Vodafone Turkey Digital Society Inclusion for All Planet Our People Appendices and Value Chain 2020 Sustainability Report VODAFONE TURKEY SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2020 Responsible Business Message from CEO About the Report Vodafone Turkey Digital Society Inclusion for All Planet Our People Appendices and Value Chain Table of Contents 3 Message from CEO 20 Inclusion for All 44 Responsible Business and Value Chain Women’s Empowerment Occupational Health and Safety 4 About the Report Easy Rescue Corporate Governance Toolkit on Domestic Violence and Abuse at Work Supply Chain Management 5 Vodafone Turkey Women First in Entrepreneurship Data Security Vision, Mission, Values First6Years Mobile Devices, Masts, Public Health Vodafone Turkey in Figures Women’s Internship Programs in Technology Our Financial Performance and and Sales Departments 52 Appendices Economic Contribution Youth Skills and Jobs Memberships and Collaborations Sustainable Business Strategy Discover Young Talents Program Environmental Performance Indicators Vodafone Turkey Foundation Future Jobs Internship Program Social Performance Indicators Vodafone Freezone Online Music Contest GRI Content Index 13 Digital Society and Music Room ULAK E-Sports Oksijen No Disability in Technology ITU Vodafone Future Lab Coding Tomorrow V by Vodafone Digital Agriculture Solution 28 Planet Safe Vehicle Solutions Climate Change and Carbon Management Diabetes Support Point Renewable Energy Vodafone Red Control Waste Management Vodafone Vitrin My Vodafone App 36 Our People Financial Inclusion Equal Opportunity and Diversity Digital Employee Experience Agile Transformation Talent and Performance Management Employee Engagement and Volunteering VODAFONE TURKEY SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2020 2 Responsible Business About the Report Vodafone Turkey Digital Society Inclusion for All Planet Our People Appendices Message from CEO and Value Chain Message from CEO lives and the enable continuity of communication: To always inclusive for everyone. We had touched the lives of preserve the service quality of networks, to enable continuity 54,000 women until today with our “Women First in of critical public services, to improve transparent information Entrepreneurship” project that we had launched to support flow, to facilitate life and work from home, and to support the female entrepreneurship and we enable sales over TRY business world and provide information to public institutions. 1 million in the digital store. We continue programs such as Discover Young Talent Program focused on the Talents We made sustainability an essential part of our business. To and Employment of Young People. With the project Coding reveal the potential of the communication industry we focus Tomorrow, we provided coding training for over 100,000 on creating value in three areas: Digital Society, Inclusion for children in 81 cities. all and Planet. The Sustainability Committee and the Working Groups continue their operations to apply our sustainability Environmental problems bring along many societal strategy in line with our material issues. crises. As the use of mobile data and the need for energy increase in our industry, we use our digital The products and services that we develop focus on competencies to decrease the environmental impact, improving the quality of life, making life easier and invest in renewable and alternative energy sources, fully integrating with the age of digital economy. While and effectively manage our e-wastes. With our solar We believe that we should always consider purpose while carrying our business into the future, we meet the power plant investment, with the largest capacity to directly doing business. Using our core business, we aim to create a requirement for continuous communication, and energize a data center in Turkey, we produced 425 MWh digital society that supports socioeconomic development, prepare businesses for the world being reshaped electricity energy and decreased carbon emissions by 215 embraces everyone, and cares about the future of our world. by technology. We pay importance for developing local tons. We enabled recycling or reusing 99% of e-wastes. With this belief, we made a promise: We will improve the production ecosystem in our country. In this context, we lives of 1 billion people and cut our environmental started to use ULAK, the first local base station. This year, we With our projects, we have been creating value in Turkey impact from our operations in half by 2025. activated 250 ULAK base stations in total and have become since the day we started our operations, and we have been the company with the greatest number of active ULAK base transparently and voluntarily reporting our sustainability COVID-19 pandemics has affected both Turkey and the stations in its commercial network. We accessed to over projects for 10 years. I want to thank our all stakeholders whole world during the period we prepared the report 5,000 companies and more than 10,000 people in 12 cities who assisted us in our position as a target-oriented company content. As people had to stay indoors, we were aware with the Digitalization Truck. during this period. And I wish you enjoy the report. of the responsibility to make society continue their connections. We addressed to 5 focus points to do this We support sustainable development through the Colman Deegan effectively, to decrease the impacts of COVID-19 on our projects we realize and make digital future more CEO VODAFONE TURKEY SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2020 3 Responsible Business Message from CEO Vodafone Turkey Digital Society Inclusion for All Planet Our People Appendices About the Report and Value Chain 102-45 About the Report Vodafone Turkey1 2020 Sustainability Report shares We have included our efforts on our employees’ health Shows the number of notifications you need our economic, governance, environmental, and social and safety, continuity of our services and sustainability 1 to open on that page. Open all notifications performance in the financial year between 1 April 2019 and of the ecosystem as part of the fight against COVID-19 sequentially by clicking on it. 31 March 2020. The flow of the report is shaped around the affecting both Turkey and the whole world during the goal-oriented sustainability strategy and material issues of period we prepared the report content. We have also shared Vodafone. Along with the value areas we group as Digital how we facilitated the transition to a new model through Society, Inclusion for All and Planet, we also share insights on digitalization. Click to access the contents page. how we manage the Employees and Responsible Business and Value Chain areas. In the report, we also include the Please submit your questions and remarks about the report progress within the framework of the future strategies of to surdurulebilirlik@vodafone.com. Vodafone Group. Click to move forward and backward We have published the 10th Sustainability Report this through the pages. year, in which we have shared the outstanding distinctive sustainability investments and applications we have realized in the last 10 years. We have also included the opinions of our internal and external stakeholders. Click to watch the video content. While the report which we have prepared in line with the “core” option of GRI Standards issued by the Global Reporting Initiative GRI is a progress statement for the United Nations Global Compact (UNGC) that we have signed, it also includes our contributions to Women’s Empowerment Principles WEPs and United Nations Sustainable Development Goals (UN SDGs). 1 Vodafone Turkey refers to the total of Vodafone Telekomünikasyon A.Ş., Vodafone Dağıtım Hizmetleri A.Ş., Vodafone Teknoloji Hizmetleri A.Ş. (OKSİJEN), Vodafone Net İletişim Hizmetleri A.Ş., Vodafone Holding A.Ş., Vodafone Turkey Foundation, Vodafone Bilgi ve İletişim Hizmetleri A.Ş., Vodafone Elektronik Para ve Ödeme Hizmetleri A.Ş. and Vodafone Mobile Operations Limited. Vodafone Mobile Operations Limited (Turkish Republic of Northern Cyprus) is only included in the Report while disclosing financial performance. VODAFONE TURKEY SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2020 4 Responsible Business Message from CEO About the Report Digital Society Inclusion for All Planet Our People Appendices Vodafone Turkey and Value Chain Vodafone Turkey Vision Vodafone Turkey in Figures Leading digital transformation in Turkey. Mission 23.5 Million 992 To be a more agile and faster company which is also lean and Mobile Customers Stores ready for the digital future in regard to our employees and customers. TRY 1.7 Billion 17.5 Million Investment 4.5G Customers Values We provide fast, high-quality, simple, and reliable services to enhance our customers’ lives and support them to TRY 24 Billion 1.1 Million avail of diverse opportunities and fulfil their potential. As Total Investment since 2006 Fixed Broadband Customers an international company loyal to its local roots, we are within the body of Vodafone Group, one of the largest telecommunications and technology providers across Over TRY 41 Million 3,004 the globe. We are a customer-oriented, innovative, and Social Investments Employees competitive company. With our vision to lead the digitalization of Turkey, we support 16.2 Million About 600 Digital Customers2 Vodafone Turkey Volunteers the individuals and organizations to prepare for the digital codes of the future. Our strategy is based on gaining depth in 2 Digital customer refers to the monthly number of active customers using digital channels such as My Vodafone App, Online Self-Service and Vodafone TV applications. the customer experience, offering the best gigabit networks, scaling our platforms, thinking “digital first”, radically Awards Women with Women First in Entrepreneurship Mobile App simplifying, and adopting agile ways of working. Stevie International Business Awards • Silver Stevie with 2018 Sustainability Report In Sales and Customer Services Awards; • Silver Stevie in the category of Workplace Safety and • Innovation in Customer Services Compliance • Best Technology Utilization in Customer Services • Customer Services of The Year category awards Webrazzi Awards In Women in Business Life Awards; • Mobile Application of the Year 2019 Award with My • Gold Stevie in the category of Empowering and Supporting Vodafone App VODAFONE TURKEY SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2020 5 Responsible Business Message from CEO About the Report Digital Society Inclusion for All Planet Our People Appendices Vodafone Turkey and Value Chain Our Financial Performance and Economic Contribution With a vision to lead the digitalization in Turkey, we operate in To this end, we endeavor to; to economic and social development and put them into the technology industry, growing and creating economic and practice with the goal of employing the young population. social added value with the power of transformation. As the • Identify the best policies based on international examples telecommunication company with the widest 4.5G coverage by reviewing the current regulations We directly employ 3,016 people and support local in Turkey, we continued our extensive investments in Turkey • Improve the global competitiveness of Turkey by economic development with our operations in different throughout the last year. encouraging the development of policies that contribute geographical regions of Turkey. Along with suppliers, store to its digital transformation employees and outsourced individuals that we employ Maintaining our position among the largest international • Raise awareness regarding the social and economic indirectly, we offer employment opportunities to more than direct investors of Turkey, we made investments that benefits of digitalization, 40 thousand people in total. Throughout Turkey, we employ amount to TRY 1.7 billion in the financial year 2019/20 and • Enable the IT & Telecommunication industry to impact approximately 4,500 people at our call centers founded in contributed to the digitalization and economy of the country. all fields of the economy and to improve efficiency and 41 locations including Tunceli, Adıyaman, Batman, Malatya, We continued to support the economic development in effectiveness by assisting the digitalization of economy, Zonguldak, Uşak. Turkey with the taxes (VAT, special communication tax etc.) • Implement competition policies effectively to the paid by the customers that benefit from our services. The purpose, total amount of investments we made in the last 14 years • Overcome regulation obstacles with joint solutions in has reached TRY 24 billion. 99% of our investments consisted order to offer products and services which contribute to of technological investments. Bringing the most reliable social welfare and development, and sustainable technology for our consumers and offering • Take steps for the legislation amendments required to all our services with best customer experience through ensure that state-of-the art technologies are accessible, digitalization, we will continue our investments as we rely on • Encourage investment, R&D and innovation in fixed and the future of Turkey and on our industry. mobile broadband infrastructure, grid, and services, • Use limited resources, starting with frequencies, Our Contribution to Public Policies effectively and efficiently. Public policies in the telecommunication industry should be developed to enable sound competition in line with the Our Contribution to Local Employment technological developments. Therefore, we closely follow We contribute to the local economy while assisting society the respective regulations both in the world and in Turkey. with our products and services. Local employment is an We exchange information with regulatory bodies, public important part of our economic impact. At Vodafone Turkey, institutions, non-governmental organizations (NGOs) and the we plan our call center investments in a way that contributes public to contribute to the welfare of consumers. VODAFONE TURKEY SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2020 6 Responsible Business Message from CEO About the Report Digital Society Inclusion for All Planet Our People Appendices Vodafone Turkey and Value Chain Our Purpose leading digital transformation in Turkey. Sustainable Business Strategy At Vodafone Turkey, we steer digital transformation and prepare every segment of the society for a better future. As a goal-oriented company, we focus on creating value in Digital Transformation, Inclusion for All and Planet to unleash the potential of the telecommunication industry. Vodafone Turkey Sustainability Statement, which is in line with the sustainable business strategy of Vodafone Digital Society Inclusion for All Planet Group and localized based on the needs, local requirements, and stakeholders’ expectations, provides guidance for our projects. We continue taking actions in line with the • Digital Agriculture Solution Women’s Empowerment • Adana Technology Center Solar • Diabetes Support Point • Easy Rescue App Energy Central sustainability roadmap we created based on the three value • Safe Vehicle Solutions • First 6 Years • Waste to Code areas we adopt. • ITU Vodafone Future Lab • Guide Against Domestic Violence • Green Office Program • Oksijen • Women First in Entrepreneurship Sustainability Management • ULAK • Women’s Internship Programs in Within the scope of our sustainability strategy, the • Vodafone Red Control Technology and Sales Departments • Vodafone Vitrin Sustainability Committee and Working Groups operate Youth Skills and Jobs • My Vodafone App internally to enable the different divisions adopt this subject. • Coding Tomorrow • V by Vodafone Directly reporting to the CEO and composed of three working • Discover Young Talents Program • E-Sports groups, the Sustainability Committee makes decisions in • Future Jobs Internship Program the framework of our sustainability strategy. It monitors the • No Disability in Technology progress in targeted areas and develops large scale projects • Vodafone Freezone Online Music that are in line with the goals of Vodafone Group and Turkey. Contest and Music Room This year, sub-groups have regularly gathered once a month and reported firstly to the CEO and then to Vodafone Group about the projects carried out. Responsible Business Practices Anti Bibery and Mobile, Masts and Human Rights Responsible Supply Chain Economic Contribution Corraption Health VODAFONE TURKEY SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2020 7 Responsible Business Message from CEO About the Report Digital Society Inclusion for All Planet Our People Appendices Vodafone Turkey and Value Chain 102-42, 102-44, 102-47, 102-49 Vodafone Turkey Material Issues and Scope We care about the impact of our business on our Important Very Important Extremely Important stakeholders and our stakeholders’ impact on our business. We create value through this interaction. We prioritize material issues and define the areas we will focus on and 90 scale the value we create. Technological Innovation What Did We Do? We carried out a materiality analysis in line with AA1000 80 Stakeholder Participation Standard in 2018. Risk and Crisis Management Climate Change and Energy Financial Performance While identifying the material issues for our stakeholders; Becoming a Digital 70 Human Rights Data Security and Privacy Solution Partner • We collected opinions from our stakeholders through a Women’s Empowerment stakeholder analysis. Youth Skills and Jobs • We identified the international trends in the global Equal Opportunity and Diversity agenda and across the industry through an external trend 60 Waste Management Digital Customer and IMPORTANCE TO STAKEHOLDERS Talent Employee Experience analysis. Mobile Devices, Masts and Public Health Management Responsible Supply Chain Management Occupational Health and Safety While analyzing the importance of each issue for Vodafone Responsible Products, Services and Accessibility 50 Turkey; Water Management Digital Rights Employee Transparency • We investigated the opinions and expectations of the and Freedom Satisfaction Customer Satisfaction and Loyalty and Information management through face-to-face interviews and focus Responsible Communication and Sharing group meetings. Additionally, we evaluated the strategic 40 Marketing of Products and Services Stakeholder Analysis + External Trend Analysis areas driving the company within this process. • We assessed the financial impacts and risks, the legal effects, the competitive advantage, and the innovation 30 opportunities offered by using of SASB (Sustainability Accounting Standards Board) Four-Factor Analysis. In line with the strategic analysis we conducted in 2019, 20 30 40 50 60 70 80 90 waste management has now been included among our IMPORTANCE TO VODAFONE TURKEY top material issues in accordance with the corporate and Management + Strategy + 4 Factor Impact Analysis industrial concerns. VODAFONE TURKEY SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2020 8 Responsible Business Message from CEO About the Report Digital Society Inclusion for All Planet Our People Appendices Vodafone Turkey and Value Chain 102-44, 102-46, 102-47 RESPECTIVE SECTION Refers to the section(s) that we MATERIAL ISSUE DEFINITION RELATION TO SDGS share our performance in the material issues. The impact of the transition to digital technologies are felt more and more. We follow rapidly Technological Innovation developing technologies such as robotics, Artificial Intelligence (AI) and Internet of Things (IoT) Digital Society closely. Planet Becoming a Digital We offer fast, high-quality, and inspiring products and services to individuals and organizations Solution Partner and Digital Society in line with our vision to lead the digital transformation journey of Turkey. We facilitate life and Digital Customer Planet help our customers fulfill their potentials by digitalizing the customer experience. Experience Gender equality is one of the most important topics in achieving a better future with healthy, Women's Empowerment educated and informed generations. We support the women’s empowerment. by taking steps Inclusion for All towards gender equality and a state of equal opportunities. Employees We prioritize the fight against climate change, one of the biggest issues of our age. We regularly monitor the consumption at the base stations and technology centers where we Climate Change and consume the highest energy and we conduct projects to decrease the consumption level. We Planet Energy invest in renewable energy. We manage our energy consumption both in line with our internal policies and the international standards. A strong financial performance is the precondition of creating the highest level of shared value Financial Performance Vodafone Turkey and change in areas of value. We are among the biggest foreign direct investors in Turkey. Data privacy and security take the lead among the risks that are born with digitalization. We Data Security and Privacy take comprehensive steps at international standards to manage the risks concerned with data Responsible Business and security. We protect customer data by using the best systems. Value Chain The talents we invest in perform actions that will provide growth to our company and constantly Talent Management contribute to our business success. With talent management, we both enable high-potential Employees people to join Vodafone and prepare high-potential employees to leadership positions. We want our products and services to be understood as accurately as possible by our customers. Planet Responsible Products, Digital Society We develop our products with a sense of responsibility to facilitate our customer’s lives and offer Services and Accessibility Responsible Business and facilities to improve their access to them. Value Chain VODAFONE TURKEY SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2020 9 Responsible Business Message from CEO About the Report Digital Society Inclusion for All Planet Our People Appendices Vodafone Turkey and Value Chain 102-44, 102-46, 102-47 RESPECTIVE SECTION Refers to the section(s) that we MATERIAL ISSUE DEFINITION RELATION TO SDGS share our performance in the material issues. Supporting the skill development and employment of the young people is among our strategic Occupational Health and Responsible Business and priorities. We offer the young people the skills and talents required for the digital economy and Safety Value Chain create employment opportunities. Creating an inclusive corporate culture that respects the differences of its people is our goal. We Youth Skills and Jobs manage all work processes with this approach, support gender equality and grow together with Inclusion for All the diversity in the work environment. We carry out our business processes with numerous partners. We are developing a strong supply Equal Opportunity and Employees chain management to maintain the high standards that we embraced. The rules and regulations Diversity Inclusion for All we have defined enable us to effectively manage the risks concerning the supply chain. Managing issues such as public health that are affected by our operations composes an Responsible Supply Chain Responsible Business and important part of our sustainable management approach. Thus, we display an open and Management Value Chain transparent attitude towards any concerns that may arise in the public. Mobile Devices, Base We carry out awareness efforts to act fast and in a timely manner as a company in case of Responsible Business and Stations and Public Health disasters and other emergencies, and to contribute to the society that we operate in. Value Chain We want our employees to create value for a long time in our business with satisfaction in the Risk and Crisis Responsible Business and digital experience and improvement opportunities we offer at Vodafone. We adopt the agile Management Value Chain working culture improved with the capabilities of digitalization. Equipment and devices that are replaced or no longer used as a result of developing technology Employee Satisfaction must be disposed of appropriately. With our operations, we focus on reducing the electronic and Digital Employee Employees waste created as a result of our operations, products and services, and increasing their recycling Experience rate. Equipment and devices that are replaced or no longer used as a result of developing technology must be disposed of appropriately. With our operations, we focus on reducing the electronic Waste Management Planet waste created as a result of our operations, products and services, and increasing their recycling rate. VODAFONE TURKEY SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2020 10 Responsible Business Message from CEO About the Report Digital Society Inclusion for All Planet Our People Appendices Vodafone Turkey and Value Chain 102-40, 102-43 Stakeholder Communications We care about stakeholder communications to establish Impact Stakeholder Communication Tools long-term and effective relationships in line with the expectations, requirements, and priorities of different Sustainability Report, Red Loves Green Internal Communication Employees stakeholders. We interact with different stakeholder Channel, Digital Office Screen, Orientation Program groups affecting the long-term success of our company through various channels, especially via our reports, project Call Centers, Sales Channels and Dealers, Sustainability Report, Direct partnerships, and social media platforms. Customers Vodafone Media Center, Vodafone Turkey Social Media Accounts, My Impact VF App We strengthen our relationship with our stakeholders through our support and sponsorship for various projects Sustainability Report, Supplier Performance Management, Vodafone Suppliers in areas that we can create value, especially in inclusion Media Center, Supplier Day and digitalization. For instance, in 2019, we were the Digital Communication Sponsor of Contemporary İstanbul, one of Public Institutions and Regulatory Information Reports, Sustainability Report, Consultation Meetings and the most important exhibitions in modern art, with Vodafone Authorities Interviews Red, to support development of art in Turkey. Again, to make cultural-art activities more accessible through Vodafone Dealer Portal, V-Star App, Sustainability Report, Vodafone Media Business Partners and Initiatives Red, we cooperated with the art venue DasDas, and offered Center discounted tickets for our customers interested in the activities. In addition, we enabled users to watch some Indirect Sustainability Report, Vodafone Media Center, Stakeholder Mailings, performances digitally. NGOs and International Organizations Impact Sponsorships, Conferences Website, Sustainability Report, Vodafone Media Center, Vodafone Media Esra Yıldız, Turkey Social Media Accounts Vodafone Employee Sustainability Report, Stakeholder Mailings, Conferences, University Universities Career Days “ I wrote to Red Loves Green internal communication channel to participate in the Marathon Plogging event with my two nephews, 8 and 4 years old. The team immediately Opportunity, Information responded to me and I joined the marathon with my Think Tanks Sustainability Report, Vodafone Media Center, Conferences and Mentality nephews. Together, we collected plastic waste for a world Leaders without plastic. ” VODAFONE TURKEY SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2020 11 Responsible Business Message from CEO About the Report Digital Society Inclusion for All Planet Our People Appendices Vodafone Turkey and Value Chain Vodafone Turkey Foundation Vodafone contributes to the community development with the foundations established in the countries it operates. Vodafone Turkey Foundation (TVV), one of the 27 foundations established in this scope, has been supporting community development in Turkey since 2007. We have touched the lives of 4 million people with the investments worth more than TRY 41 million through the projects we have conducted so far. We bring technology to women, children and the disabled through our vision “technology for kindness” and realize projects that improve human life and facilitate the transition to a digital society. You may find the details on various projects conducted by Vodafone Turkey Foundation (TVV) under the sections Digital Transformation, Inclusion and Environment. The support extended by TVV during the COVID-19 period is also included in the Inclusion Section. Awards • Middle East Stevie AwardsNGO Website Innovation STK Gold Stevie Vodafone Turkey Foundation website • NGO Innovation Excellence Gold Stevie Vodafone Turkey Foundation projects VODAFONE TURKEY SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2020 12 Responsible Business Message from CEO About the Report Vodafone Turkey Inclusion for All Planet Our People Appendices Digital Society and Value Chain VODAFONE TURKEY SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2020 Responsible Business Message from CEO About the Report Vodafone Turkey Inclusion for All Planet Our People Appendices Digital Society and Value Chain Yeliz Sarıkaya 3 4 2 1 Vodafone Turkey Corporate Marketing Senior Manager “ With our vision ‘leading the digital transformation in Turkey’, we support the transformation of our business partners and closing the digital gap within the society by increasing the digital technology access of our customers. We contribute to both our customers and to the economy with respect to digitalization and access to products/services. We have been sharing our work progress in our Sustainability Reports for 10 years. ” Mehmet Özmen Head of Silifke Strawberry Producers Association “ Digital agriculture station measures the humidity of air and soil and notifies in advance when it will rain or storm. We have been conducting a more balanced watering and using our resources more efficiently since we started utilizing this solution. Since less irrigation is needed, we save on fertilizers and electricity. ” VODAFONE TURKEY SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2020 14 Responsible Business Message from CEO About the Report Vodafone Turkey Inclusion for All Planet Our People Appendices Digital Society and Value Chain Digital Society 1 2 While we carry our business to the future, it is not possible to separate the welfare of the society and the planet from transformation in digitalization and innovation. We work on fast networks with solid infrastructure, and today, we offer over 20,000 4.5G communication points in 81 provinces. Along with meeting our customers’ requirement for continuous communication, we prepare them for the world being reshaped by technology to become a digital business partner. The Internet of Things (IoT) offers huge opportunities for businesses with the economic potential it will create around 6.2 trillion US Dollars by 2025.3 As Vodafone Turkey, we make it possible for our stakeholders to utilize the opportunities offered by IoT. With these technologies, we assist our customers in reducing their costs and increasing their competitive advantages. Favoring the growth in our domestic and national product ecosystem, we develop new products along with our solution partners, take steps in software and hardware, and make leading investments. 3 Vodafone Turkey Media Center VODAFONE TURKEY SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2020 15 Responsible Business Message from CEO About the Report Vodafone Turkey Inclusion for All Planet Our People Appendices Digital Society and Value Chain Our Contributions to SDGs Our Efforts to Tackle COVID-19 With COVID-19, a new period has started in which people work from their homes by connecting to their workplaces remotely, SUSTAINABLE DEVELOPMENT GOAL* OUR CONTRIBUTION realize their meetings via methods like video conferences, shop online and get training or education remotely. Throughout this period, we have focused on facilitating the lives of our customers 9.1. Creating infrastructures • We increase the areas of use for access by taking quick actions thanks to our leadership position in enabling universal access to to innovative technologies such as IoT. digitalization through our resources during the pandemic in information and communication which internet has become one of the most vital requirements. technologies 9 9.2. Supporting inclusive and • We develop infrastructure with mobile communication technologies and base Our field staff continue their operations to enable continuity in communication. These are some of the actions we have taken Industry, during this period: Innovation and sustainable industry stations. • For a defined period, we increased public awareness by Infrastructure using #EvdeKal TR (StayHome) phrase on our customers’ 9.4. Durable and inclusive • We offer solutions to customers in infrastructure enabling the areas such as Industry 4.0, which create smartphones as the operator name, instead of Vodafone TR. development of all industries for opportunities for the business world. • We allocated additional 5 GB data and 500 minutes talktime sustainability free for customers working for public healthcare institutions, in addition to their current tariffs. • We started offering free SIM card delivery for our customers 12 12.a. Increasing technological • We develop technological aged 65+. Responsible capacity for sustainable production innovations and IoT apps to • To support remote education, we allocated 6 GB data in total Consumption and and consumption improve Industry 4.0. for all our customers to be used on Training Information Production Network platform. • We allocate 6 GB free data usage through Support to Distance • We establish multi-stakeholder 17.16. Increasing the number Education Quota for university students using Vodafone on 17 of partners sharing information, expertise, technology, and financial partnerships to scale the applications, products and the Course Platform of the Council of Higher Education. • We increased the data uploading rate of our current and Partnerships for opportunities that will be resources to support achievement of future home fiber internet customers up to four times free of the Goals developed in the digitalization SDGs charge. field. • Our customers can perform their transactions from home via * Sub-goals and indicators are summarized. My Vodafone App and through vodafone.com.tr VODAFONE TURKEY SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2020 16 Responsible Business Message from CEO About the Report Vodafone Turkey Inclusion for All Planet Our People Appendices Digital Society and Value Chain ULAK Oksijen V by Vodafone We lead the development of domestic and national Our global innovation company, OKSİJEN (Vodafone Vodafone’s personal IoT product family V by Vodafone technologies in line with our end-to-end digitalization Teknoloji Hizmetleri A.Ş.), continues its operations in ITU enables our users to check via the mobile application target in Turkey. In 2019, we activated 250 ULAK base ARI Technocity to lead digital transformation in Turkey and whether their children, elder family members, pets, bags, stations in total in the Black Sea and Eastern Anatolia Region offers innovative products and services to corporate and and cars are safe. With five different products -V-Kid’s and have become the company with the greatest number personal customers. With 240 employees, OKSİJEN has Watch, V-Assistant, V-Paw, V-Car and V-Bagwe offer a of active ULAK base stations in its commercial network. become an important employment center in R&D in Turkey, smart product family which is always connected and can We are offering service to 206,000 people in an area of and since its foundation, 87 R&D project and 349 patent be setup via the mobile app. We have reached more than 12,000 km2. applications have been submitted and 29 patents have been 80,000 users since 2018 with V by Vodafone. Adding more certified. Domestic good certificate has been obtained for 25 IoT products to the V by Vodafone product portfolio, we will products. continue to provide innovative solutions and services so that Vodafone Digitalization Truck our customers can connect more and control better. We promote the latest digital technology solutions and ITU Vodafone Future Lab offer to businesses in our technology base ITU Vodafone Digital Agriculture Solution Future Lab via our Vodafone Digitalization Truck. So far, the In ITU Vodafone Future Lab we founded Vodafone Digitalization Truck has travelled across 12 cities for future technologies in Ayazaga Campus in cooperation Our aim is to support agricultural efficiency in Turkey via in Turkey, including Adana, Diyarbakır, Trabzon, Kayseri, with Istanbul Technical University, we develop innovative the Digital Agriculture Solution. We offer efficiency-oriented Antalya, İzmir, Ankara, Bursa and İstanbul. Our target is to visit technology products and solutions meeting the solutions for agricultural companies by analyzing the data 11 more cities with the Digitalization Truck which traveled requirements. In the lab, our customers and businesses have we obtain from air and soil via sensors and modules and across 8,000 km in three months and met more than 10,000 the chance to experience the latest applications we have prevent damage especially on agricultural products and people and more than 5,000 companies. developed in IoT and using areas of 5G. We aim to support equipment by enabling early warnings. Thus, we may enable businesses in transforming their way of working in parallel at least 25% increase in production and quality, and up to with digitalization and growing their businesses with the 50% saving on inputs comprising most of the production competitive advantage they will obtain. costs. In scope of Digital Agriculture Solution, we built the Digital Agriculture Academy to also increase digital ITU Vodafone Future Lab that develops new generation agriculture and technology awareness. Our aim is to increase solutions for all big and small enterprises, works like a the development in the agriculture industry by telling the compass for the companies aiming to develop themselves. farmers about the production efficiency enabled by digital The center that puts academic and business world in one agriculture, the sustainable agriculture and cost saving platform develops tailor-made solutions for companies’ methods, and the latest farming practices in the academy. organisational and sectoral needs and helps decreasing companies’ costs. VODAFONE TURKEY SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2020 17 Responsible Business Message from CEO About the Report Vodafone Turkey Inclusion for All Planet Our People Appendices Digital Society and Value Chain Safe Vehicle Solutions in scope of the Diabetes Support Point. We enable the treatment processes of patients to be monitored remotely With Safe Vehicle Solutions, we enable access to tachograph with these tablets. We reached nearly 2,200 people in the data enabling measuring the speed and the distance of first three months with Diabetes Support Point. Our aim is to vehicles directly from the vehicle digitally via IoT technology, reach 120,000 patients with the project planned to continue without any need for human intervention. The driving for three years. performance of drivers is monitored in real time, and the drivers are warned to follow the rules. Thus, potential accidents are also avoided by enabling drivers to be more Vodafone Red Control active while driving. Safe Vehicle Solutions enable safety for long-distance drivers in traffic and especially logistic firms We developed Vodafone Red Control by utilizing IoT can digitally measure the speed and the distance of the technology for companies to closely follow their efficiency vehicles in their fleets. and costs. With Vodafone Red Control, companies can My Vodafone App see how their manufacturing facilities are managing time, their machines’ manufacturing performance and We enable our customers to perform many transactions Diabetes Support Point the energy consumption via Personnel Efficiency Followquickly on digital environment with My Vodafone App. With Up Management, Machine Management and Energy the application, we enable our subscribers perform the We are the solution partner of the Diabetes Management, and may take measures accordingly. mobile transactions they need without visiting a reseller Support Point project in cooperation with Turkish or contacting the call center, as well as enabling them Diabetes Foundation and Turkish Ministry of Health, digitalization, time saving and decrease in costs. Here are General Directorate of Public Health. In scope of the Vodafone Vitrin some features we offer in this scope: project, we offer training for people with diabetes and under risk of diabetes and enable that treatment processes We created Vodafone Vitrin to support innovation • Click and Collect: We offer an alternative delivery option of patients are monitored remotely. People with diabetes by investing in ventures. We collaborate with companies for customers who will not be at their address during the or under risk of diabetes may get information on issues that provide digital services or products to our customers delivery process. This option has been preferred in 143 such as treatment, nutrition, medication intake through through mobile apps. Ventures accepted in Vodafone Vitrin orders since the beginning of 2020. diyabetdesteknoktasi.com, the web address of the become eligible to be on Vitrin (on My Vodafone App) after a • Fast Delivery: We can deliver digital product requirements project. As part of the project, we offered training for Primary brief preliminary process and can access millions of personal of users in Istanbul in only three hours. Fast delivery has Care Clinic staff in 21 cities, accompanied by diabetes and corporate Vodafone customers through their digital been preferred in 210 orders since the beginning of specialists. Center staff also offer awareness training sessions channels. We offer digital marketing support of monthly 2020. for people with diabetes or under risk of diabetes. As part TRY 30,000 to ventures we start working together. In • Order Follow-Up: We enable our customers follow up their of the project also supported by the International Diabetes addition to the digital marketing support, ventures have the orders online without contacting the Call Center. Federation, we distributed tablets to primary care clinics opportunity to carry their ventures forward by working with Vodafone managers experienced in their fields. VODAFONE TURKEY SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2020 18 Responsible Business Message from CEO About the Report Vodafone Turkey Inclusion for All Planet Our People Appendices Digital Society and Value Chain My Vodafone App Marketplace Vodafone Pay and Mobile Payment We offer our customers campaigns of 60 different brands We offer Vodafone Pay, a mobile wallet application and a in nine categories, including games, services, travel, physical prepaid card, to be used by users of all ages not entertainment, food and beverages, healthcare-sports, involved in any banking ecosystem, regardless of the shopping, urban, and finance through digital channels. operator. With Vodafone Pay, our aim is to realize innovative We respond to our customers’ digital demands and financial services approaches ranging from realizing requirements with a wide business partner ecosystem. My innovative projects in financial technology to evolution to Vodafone App Marketplace employs a partnership model open banking systems. In addition, with Vodafone Mobile enabling all stakeholders win and customers benefit from Payment, we enable our users make their payments without discounted prices of their favorite brands while brands carrying their credit cards with them, by reflecting their have a digital channel through which they make extra sales payments onto their bills. In the financial year 2019/20, we and gain extra customers. With a platform which can be enabled 107% increase in the number of monthly personal accessed through My Vodafone App, our aim is to build an Vodafone Mobile Payment users and 111% increase in the ecosystem comprising of 100 companies in total by the number of transactions per month, compared to the previous end of the year, and to create economic value of nearly TRY Financial Inclusion financial year. In addition, compared to the previous financial 500 million in five years. In the financial year 2019/20, year, we enabled 120% increase in the total transaction approximately 100,000 transactions for 60 brands were Facilitating public access to financial services and increasing volume, 31% in the number of users in total, and 30% in conducted monthly; thus, we created an economic value the financial inclusion are among the most important driving income. reaching up to TRY 10 million per month. forces of sustainable development. As digital technology has developed, mobile financial services have also become increasingly important. The rate of women with no bank account in Turkey is 42%, and the rate of citizens using another individual’s account is 72%. In other words, 30 million adults are not working with any banking institution in Turkey. As Vodafone Turkey, our aim is to enable access to financial services by those individuals through digitalization and to integrate them in the financial system. VODAFONE TURKEY SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2020 19 Responsible Business Message from CEO About the Report Vodafone Turkey Digital Society Planet Our People Appendices Inclusion for All and Value Chain Responsible Business Message from CEO About the Report Vodafone Turkey Digital Society Planet Our People Appendices Inclusion for All and Value Chain Tuğba İşcan 4 6 5 1 3 2 General Secretary of Vodafone Turkey Foundation “ We continue our efforts constantly to include every segment of the society and make technology accessible by everyone. For long years, we have been changing the lives of different stakeholders, especially women and young people. We carry the society forward via the applications we develop and the power of technology. We have been sharing our performance on this matter transparently for 10 years. I’m proud to be a part of Vodafone Turkey family serving for such an important purpose for every segment of the society. ” Hatice Çelik Ortahisar HEM / Trabzon / Turkey Vodafone Foundation Special Award “ I had never been appreciated by anyone before. There were many people telling that I could not succeed. The courses I took as part of the Women First in Entrepreneurship project made me believe in myself. Now, there is no obstacle ahead of me to prevent my success. ” VODAFONE TURKEY SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2020 21 Responsible Business Message from CEO About the Report Vodafone Turkey Digital Society Planet Our People Appendices Inclusion for All and Value Chain Inclusion for All 2 1 Our commitment to offer a better future is based on covering every segment of the society. Mobile technologies have the power of transformation and we want every segment of the society to benefit from this power. We strive to create long-term value for every segment of the society as part of creating a digital society. Through the bridges we have built on the benefits and opportunities brought by technology, we contribute to the society equally and fairly. We support sustainable development through the projects we realize and make digital future more inclusive for everyone. VODAFONE TURKEY SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2020 22 Responsible Business Message from CEO About the Report Vodafone Turkey Digital Society Planet Our People Appendices Inclusion for All and Value Chain Our Contributions to SDGs SUSTAINABLE DEVELOPMENT GOAL* OUR CONTRIBUTION Our Efforts in the Fight Against COVID-19 • We improve the digital skills of young people to We focus on the public requirements by 4.1. Providing high-quality education to all female and male students enable their participation in the work force, and 4.4. Increasing the number of young people and adults with decent work, acting agilely in times of crisis. We focus on 4 offer them job and internship opportunities, for entrepreneurship-oriented technical and occupational skills the requirements by acting in line with the the digital economy of tomorrow. 4.5. Eliminating social gender inequality and discrimination in education • We work to provide quality training to women, inclusion principle and we support the society Quality 4.a. Establishing non-violent, inclusive, and effective learning both physically and psychologically also during Education particularly to improve their competencies in environments that are sensitive about gender equality and safe for the business world. the COVID-19 pandemic affecting the whole everyone • We design programs contributing to female world. We organize our support projects to leadership and competency. cover every segment of the society, especially • We work on projects that will close the young people, women, immigrants, and disabled 5.1. Ending all discrimination against women and girls everywhere individuals, who have been affected by the digital gap with respect to social gender and 5 5.2. Eliminating any violence against women and girls anywhere 5.5. Providing equal opportunities for the full and effective inclusion strengthen the female customer base. • We offer women accessible, affordable pandemic the most. Gender of women in decision-making processes of political, economical, and products and services. • donation of respirators to hospitals, Equality social life • We develop mobile communication technology 5.b. Supporting women’s empowering through technology apps to prevent violence against women. • training contents and videos specific 8.3. Supporting decent employment, entrepreneurship, and innovation, to COVID-19 prepared by specialists on • We design practices that provide equal Vodafone TV 8 encouraging micro, small and medium scale organizations by enabling opportunities to women and young people in their access to financial services employment and facilitate their participation in • the updates on our Easy Rescue app as Decent 8.5. Ensuring all women and men have access to full and productive business life. the violence cases increase, i.e. Arabic Work and employment and decent work, and embracing ‘equal pay to equal work’ • We improve the digital skills of young people to principle language option and audible screen reader Economic enable their participation in the work force and feature for visually challenged people to Growth 8.6. Supporting young people’s employment and general and offer them job and internship opportunities. increase the app accessibility occupational training • We contribute to the community development may be counted among the projects we have 17 17.7. Supporting sustainable technologies 17.16. Increasing multi-stakeholder partnerships through investments and projects we realize with Turkey Vodafone Foundation. conducted. Partnership for • We widen the impact area of our projects the Goals through collaborations. *Sub-goals and indicators are summarized. VODAFONE TURKEY SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2020 23 Responsible Business Message from CEO About the Report Vodafone Turkey Digital Society Planet Our People Appendices Inclusion for All and Value Chain Women’s Empowerment Technology and digitalization increase women’s participation Easy Rescue in economic life and their quality of daily life. Thanks to access to technology, women may adopt new skills Since 2014, we support women exposed to through learning and training opportunities; they increase violence through our Easy Rescue app we realized to create their life standards by easily accessing to information they awareness in the fight against violence against women. With need in terms of healthcare and life and empower both the application developed in cooperation with Vodafone physically and economically. As Vodafone Turkey, we take Foundation and Turkish Ministry of Family, Labor and Social steps towards enabling access of more women to digital Services, women exposed to violence may call with a single technology. We facilitate access to mobile technologies button Alo 183, 155 Police Emergency, 156 Gendarme and for women, support gender equity in society for digital Domestic Violence Emergency Hotline, reach their relatives economy, offer digital employment opportunities for women and send emergency SMS. In addition, they can also find and allow them to improve their competencies. the addresses of the nearest Ministerial Violence Prevention and Monitoring Centers over the map within the app. With Toolkit on Domestic Violence and Abuse at Work My Companion app included in 2019, women may share their routes with up to three people when they feel insecure Domestic violence and abuse mean violation of the rights and may be monitored throughout their travel. The average of an individual; as with every area of life, it also affects number of monthly active users of the app, downloaded employees’ health, welfare, safety, workplace performance, 337,000 times, has become 1,400. With the Easy Rescue efficiency, and success negatively. Toolkit on Domestic App, women may continue their daily lives with a feeling of Violence and Abuse at Work, written by Gender safety. Equality Expert Dr. Jane Pillinger and designed in a way to be a resource that can be used by everyone, includes the definitions of violence, the impact of violence in the work place, the possible actions that can be taken by the employees and managers to minimize these impacts through case studies. This year, we regularly shared this guide with our stakeholders in our ecosystem. With the guide, our aim is to increase the awareness and knowledge in terms of domestic violence. VODAFONE TURKEY SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2020 24 Responsible Business Message from CEO About the Report Vodafone Turkey Digital Society Planet Our People Appendices Inclusion for All and Value Chain Women First in Entrepreneurship completing their training through the app has exceeded home with their children during the COVID-19 period were 10,000. While the number of women accessed in scope of also supported through the app. In the application, along Aiming to contribute to women’s empowerment the project has reached 54,000 to date, TRY 60 million with game suggestions, we also included specialist videos in terms of economy and social life, as Vodafone Turkey potential economic value was created in the last four years. covering information on how to communicate with children Foundation we have been executing Women First in during the pandemic. Entrepreneurship project in collaboration with the Turkish Aiming for the visibility of the successful entrepreneurs Ministry of National Education and Turkish Informatics and inspiring other women, we organize the Women First in Foundation (TBV) since 2015. With the project, women Entrepreneurship Competition at the end of each term. We Women’s Internship Programs in Technology can easily sell their handmade crafts in the digital store have received 621 applications from all over Turkey reaching and Sales Departments on oncekadin.gov.tr, and transform their hobbies into a the highest number of applications we have received so far job enabling income. We have provided entrepreneurship in the competition which we have organized the third time The Women’s Internship Program in the Technology and and technology training to more than 37,000 women this year. We offered Grand Award to three contestants and Sales Department is a long-term internship program under the scope of this project. In the digital store with Jury Special Award to two contestants in the competition. that aims to provide opportunities for female students approx. 30,000 subscribers, more than 52,000 products In addition, for the first time this year, we also gave an studying in the 4th grade and who want to advance their have been listed in 15 categories and more than TRY Innovation in Product award to the project participant careers in technology and sales in the technology and 1 million sales have been obtained. With the Women First designing the most innovative product. Thus, we gave awards telecommunications sector. We aim for our female students in Entrepreneurship Mobile App we developed to access to six women in total. The Women First in Entrepreneurship to gain experience and make a strong start in business life more women, women may benefit from entrepreneurship project has been included in the Navigating the Future of thanks to the mentoring, training programs and network and technology trainings digitally and for free, which were Business and Human Rights: Good Practice Examples Report4 opportunities realized within the scope of the program. At provided in classes in Public Training Centers before. While of UNGC. the same time, within the scope of the internship program, the mobile app was downloaded by approx. 30,000 people we bring together young talents to benefit from their ideas by the financial year 2019/20, the number of women in many different fields and ensure that important projects First6Years come to life. With First 6 Years, we developed in cooperation In 2019/20, a total of 22 female interns, 12 in Technology with the Mother Child Education Foundation (AÇEV) and and 10 in the Sales Department, joined us. 66% of our female Vodafone Turkey Foundation (VTF) as a comprehensive interns in technology will continue their careers as Discover digital guide on children development, we continue Young Talent at Vodafone. offering the information and support the parents may need for the first six years of their children through mobile application. So far, the application has been downloaded more than 543,000 times, and the number of active users has become 15,234. In addition, parents who had to stay at 4 Navigating the Future of Business and Human Rights: Good Practice and Examples VODAFONE TURKEY SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2020 25 Responsible Business Message from CEO About the Report Vodafone Turkey Digital Society Planet Our People Appendices Inclusion for All and Value Chain Youth Skills and Jobs We believe that young people should have the competencies Discover Young Talents Program Vodafone Freezone Online Music required by the era and be included in the socioeconomic Contest and Music Room life. Preparing the new generation, the most important With Discover Young Talents Program, we raise the future building blocks of digital economy, to be as competent as leaders of Vodafone globally and aim at contributing to the We create an egalitarian platform offering opportunities for possible is of utmost importance. The research conducted professional and personal developments of young talents. young talents with Vodafone Freezone Online Music Contest by Vodafone Global with 6,000 young people in 15 different This year, we have organized the 13th Discover Program, to which we have been organizing since 2016. In the financial countries demonstrates that 67% of young people between which senior university students or new graduates apply and year 2019/20, we received 6,800 applications and 55,000 18 and 24 could not get career advice adequate for digital which has been continuously organized in Turkey since 2008. people voted in the contest. 614,000 people watched the economy.5 On the other hand, the workforce demand for We have raised more than 430 young talents so far through Grand Final Live Broadcast and more than 15,000 comments digital competencies increases. As part of the fight against the program and the number of our graduate Discover were received. In the meantime, the Freezone YouTube unemployment and poverty among young people, we provide employees has become 221. In the financial year 2019/20, channel gained 8,500 new followers. platforms on which they may gain these competencies, offer 88 new Discovers, 48 of whom are women joined us. them various positions in digital divisions and strengthen the In 2019, we carried our aim of enabling equal opportunity foundation of digital economy. As Vodafone Turkey, we offer one step further and built a Music Room in Adıyaman training, job, internship and mentorship programs with which Future Jobs Internship Program Anatolian High School in collaboration with the Community the new generation may gain digital skills and competencies Volunteers Foundation (TOG) and delivered many musical to get prepared for a digital society. We support young people In order to create a talent pool for the digital ecosystem and instruments. Thus, we made it possible for the young people with our music and sport events and activities to help them to bring a young perspective to new technologies and trends, to meet music. explore their talent and increase their self-confidence. we have designed the Future Jobs Internship Program for senior university students and graduate students interested in the new roles in the digital world. With the program, our E-Sports aim is to raise the university students in line with the new roles emerging together with the digital transformation and We offer new areas of freedom for young people to inform them in these areas. We prioritize the young people by supporting them in e-sports on digital platforms. In who succeed in and graduate from this program in the 2019, we realized the first e-sport tournament officially Discover Young Talents Program, and also aim at attracting organized by the Turkish E-Sport Federation (TESFED) with these young talents to join our company. 53% of the interns the sponsorship of Vodafone FreeZone, TESFED Vodafone who joined us in the financial year 2019/20 in scope of the FreeZone Turkish Cup, in six different games with 106 The Future Jobs Internship Program have been selected participants. We invested more than TRY 4 million in 5 Enhancing Digital Skills as the Discover Young Talents Program and continue their e-sports and reached 14 million young people. careers in Vodafone. VODAFONE TURKEY SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2020 26 Responsible Business Message from CEO About the Report Vodafone Turkey Digital Society Planet Our People Appendices Inclusion for All and Value Chain No Disability in Technology different station stores were built considering the requests of The New Generation Autonomous Disinfection Robot project, interested parties and the number of street animals in need. ranked the first in the Coding Tomorrow Online Covideathon, Our concept of inclusion covers women and young people disinfects the area in which it moves with ultraviolet radiation. as well as socially disadvantageous disabled individuals. The second project Covcam includes an application which We focus on including disabled people in economic and #HesabımKitapOlsun My Account Donates a Book can be used in detection of COVID-19, and the third project social life with the power of technology and digitalization. COVID RH includes an application enabling the plasma With the No Disability in Technology campaign, a first in the In scope of the Coding Tomorrow project, we started a treatment applied against COVID-19 is directed to the right sector, disabled individuals with Vodafone postpaid line can social media campaign to support children’s education. person. We distributed technology cheques amounting purchase discounted devices on the online store. Children who received coding training with the Coding to TRY 17,000 in total to the ones ranking in ideathon, Tomorrow project developed a software finding the book participated by 129 teams and 339 young people from with the number of words closest to the total number of Turkey and Turkish Republic of Northern Cyprus. In addition, Coding Tomorrow words in users’ Twitter accounts, after tweeting the hashtag we started feasibility studies to realize the projects. #HesabımKitapOlsun My Account Donates a Book. We In scope of the Coding Tomorrow project launched donate the books found through the software to schools in cooperation with the Habitat Foundation, as Vodafone in scope of the Coding Tomorrow project. Thus, we support Vodafone Coding Van Turkey Foundation we have been offering coding training education of children receiving coding training. for children between 7-14 throughout Turkey since The Vodafone Coding Van, realized in scope of the Coding 2016. With the project, we develop the digital coding Online Covideathon Tomorrow project, visited 30 different facilities of Spor competencies of our children, the architects of the future, İstanbul and provided coding training for children. With and raise generations producing technology. We apply the We organized online ideathon for high school students the training sessions continued for 12 weeks in total, we Scratch program developed by Massachusetts Institute of between 14-17 in scope of the fight against COVID-19 reached nearly 600 children. Technology (MIT) in the project. Children work in groups pandemic. In the Coding Tomorrow Online Covideathon, and learn about the basics of robotics with the hackathons. we requested the students to develop technology-oriented In the 41st Vodafone İstanbul Marathon in 2019, 37,000 We have provided coding training for more than 100,000 solutions to decrease the negative impacts of the viral athletes from 106 countries ran to contribute to the children in 81 cities so far. epidemic on public. digital training of children under the theme “Run with children”. We made recycled bags from branding and #BuMamaBenden A Tweet to Feed promotion materials made from vinyl materials throughout the marathon. Children receiving coding training as part of the Coding Tomorrow project developed a pet food machine that runs with code in order to feed the street animals. By sharing the hashtag #BuMamaBenden A Tweet to Feed on social media you can place pet food on the plates thanks to this code. 13 VODAFONE TURKEY SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2020 27 Responsible Business Message from CEO About the Report Vodafone Turkey Digital Society Inclusion for All Our People Appendices Planet and Value Chain Responsible Business Message from CEO About the Report Vodafone Turkey Digital Society Inclusion for All Our People Appendices Planet and Value Chain Can Başol Manager of Vodafone Technology Centers 4 3 5 1 2 and Energy Systems “ In Vodafone Turkey, reducing the environmental impact has always been our focal point. Since our first Sustainability Report, we have been highlighting the importance of environmental impact for 10 years. We bring innovative and efficiencyand saving-oriented solutions to the industry by detecting the areas on which the environmental impact of the telecommunication industry is high. For instance, by utilizing solar energy, we balance the environmental pressure caused by data generation. We conduct awarenessoriented campaigns to create awareness about the importance of e-wastes. ” Zelal Ekin Mardin Sakarya Aycan Çaltekin Primary School Student “ Participating in the Code Writer Wastes Program has opened the doors to a new world. Today, environmental problems are all our own problems. One of the most important of these problems is the waste crisis. Trying to find a solution to this problem with technology made me so excited. I have learned coding thanks to the support of Vodafone Turkey. With this skill, I think I can benefit from many opportunities. ” VODAFONE TURKEY SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2020 29 Responsible Business Message from CEO About the Report Vodafone Turkey Digital Society Inclusion for All Our People Appendices Planet and Value Chain Environment 1 2 Environmental problems bring along many societal crises. Increasing air pollution and wastes pose risks against human and environmental health. On the other hand, it is predicted that the climate crises will lead to problems in different industries, especially in agriculture industry, like unemployment, and that many people may lose their source of income as ecosystems are damaged.6 As Vodafone Turkey, we are in a critical position as stakeholders in solution of these problems. As the use of mobile data and, thus, the need for energy increase in our industry, we use our digital competencies to decrease the environmental impact and invest in renewable and alternative energy sources. In addition, we act in line with circular economy approaches to effectively manage e-wastes. 6 Adaptation to climate change and unemployment, ILO, 2018 VODAFONE TURKEY SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2020 30 Responsible Business Message from CEO About the Report Vodafone Turkey Digital Society Inclusion for All Our People Appendices Planet and Value Chain Our Contributions to SDGs SUSTAINABLE DEVELOPMENT GOAL* OUR CONTRIBUTION • We are beginning to use renewable energy systems at our base stations 7 7.2. Improving the share of renewable energy within and centrals in line with our 100% renewable energy target. Affordable and global energy sources significantly Clean Energy • We are improving clean energy use by generating resource diversity in our operations. • We are recycling 92% of e-wastes, and reusing 8%. In 2019, the rate of 12. 2. Enabling sustainable management and e-wastes taken to solid waste storage field fell under 1%. 12 effective use of natural sources Responsible • We decrease the use of sources, especially paper and plastics, and Consumption and 12. 5. Decreasing the use of solid waste production increase the rate of recycling. Production substantially by prevention, decreasing, recycling and reusing • With events line Plogging Run, we support employee volunteering and create awareness on environmental pollution among event participants. 13. 2. Integrating climate change precautions to • We are reducing greenhouse gas emissions both in operations and value policies and plans 13 13. 3. Developing trainings, human and corporate change with energy efficiency projects and IoT solutions. Partnerships for • With sustainability and environment trainings we offer for employees, we the Goals capacity and creating awareness on decreasing the create a corporate culture and increase the climate change awareness. climate change, compliance with the climate change, decreasing the impacts and early alert system * Sub-goals and indicators are summarized. VODAFONE TURKEY SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2020 31 Responsible Business Message from CEO About the Report Vodafone Turkey Digital Society Inclusion for All Our People Appendices Planet and Value Chain Climate Change and Carbon Management Paris Agreement predicts that the global warming should be responsibilities in achieving the targets we have defined for Energy Density in Base Stations kept at 1,5 degrees at an average to mitigate the effects of climate crisis and carbon management. (GJ/Petabyte) the climate crisis. However, even this limitation may put 20% to 30% of the species in the danger of extinction, according Since 2016, we have been applying ISO 50001 Energy 2019/20 1,003 to the International Panel on Climate Change IPCC.7 Management System. As of 2019, there are five technology Extraordinary weather events, increase in the sea level and centers and nearly 17,000 base stations located in 45 2018/19 1,415 loss of ecosystems are seen as the events severely affecting different cities as part of the Management System. the human health and well-being.8 2017/18 2,174 In 2019, we decreased the energy consumption in our The use of electronic devices and mobile data increases as technology and data centers by 4% and in our office we digitalize, and this also increases the requirement for buildings by 2%, compared to the previous year. In the base energy. In 2023, it is estimated that approximately two third stations, our energy consumption was almost the same with of the world population will have access to internet, and the previous year. Our energy consumption has decreased by more than 70% will have mobile access.9 Meeting the high 1% in total. We reduced the energy density per base stations energy requirement caused by the increase in demands by 12% and per mobile data by 29%. from fossil sources is among the main impacts created by the telecommunication industry. To change this, we utilize Energy Consumption (GJ) technology and invest in renewable energy. In Vodafone Turkey, the energy management approach 2019/20 1,598,759 261,716 56,391 47,621 1,964,488 is shaped by the Energy Management System (EnYS) Policy. The Energy Team is comprised of employees from 2018/19 1,596,104 271,307 57,659 50,561 1,975,632 different units, and they are responsible from developing the management approach in parallel with trends and from 2017/18 1,571,225 272,376 56,657 51,519 1,951,777 executing the policy. Therefore, the team has important BASE STATIONS TECHNOLOGY CENTERS OFFICE BUILDINGS VEHICLES TOTAL 7 The effect of 1.50C of global warming on nature and human systems, IPCC, 2018 8 Climate Change and Human Health, WHO, 2003 9 Cisco Internet Report, 2020 VODAFONE TURKEY SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2020 32 Responsible Business Message from CEO About the Report Vodafone Turkey Digital Society Inclusion for All Our People Appendices Planet and Value Chain Renewable Energy Green House Gas Emissions Energy consumption increases globally as people demand (Ton CO2, equivalent) Adana Technology Center digital solutions and data usage increases accordingly. At Solar Energy Central this point, transition to renewable energy is accepted as a sustainable solution for the future of the world, instead of 2019/20 14,192 264,589 4,115 Our aim is to meet 20% of the energy requirement of Adana fossil-based energy consumption. Cloud Technology Center with solar energy via the solar energy central we built. As the first phase of the project 2018/19 15,920 260,694 3,489 In Vodafone Turkey, we contribute to the global targets of has been completed, we produced 425 MWh electricity Vodafone with our renewable energy investments. As of equivalent to 11% of the total energy consumption of the 2020, we have 50 wind turbines, 10 base stations using Center and we plan to prevent 215 tons of carbon emissions 2017/18 18,129 260,143 2,638 fully renewable energy and 2 signal multipliers. In per year. The Center is the largest capacity solar power plant addition, we use 25% less electricity from the grid in these in Turkey to directly energize a data center. With the project stations, with the solar hybrid energy station application we Scope 1 Scope 2 Scope 3 aimed to get to production capacity of 768 MWh as the launched in 25 base stations. second phase is complete next year, we will contribute to the Green Data Center strategy by decreasing carbon emissions In the financial year 2019/20, we realized approx. 282,000 by nearly 389 tons per year. tons of CO2 emissions; almost no increase compared to the previous year. And we decreased the greenhouse gas density per base station by 5%, and per data by 27% the parameter GHG Intensity in Base Stations with the highest effect on carbon emissions. (CO2/Number of Base Station) 2019/20 144.24 2018/19 198.65 2017/18 312.64 VODAFONE TURKEY SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2020 33 Responsible Business Message from CEO About the Report Vodafone Turkey Digital Society Inclusion for All Our People Appendices Planet and Value Chain Waste Management Due to urbanization and rapid population growth, it is E-wastes Secondhand Project predicted that the total waste production throughout the (kg) world would reach 3.4 billion tons by 2050.10 The amount In cooperation with Akademi Çevre, we are reusing the of electronic wastes (e-wastes), a type of waste increasingly e-wastes that we used to send as junk. In the business model growing around the world, reaches nearly 50 million each 1% we have developed, damaged equipments are repaired and REUSED DISPOSAL year. And if no measure is taken, it is predicted that this made available again, and sold to telecom companies in 117,097 1,385 amount would reach 120 million tons by 2050.11 Traditional different countries. With the project, we have saved TRY 8.7 waste disposal leads to an increase in greenhouse gas million both directly and in directly. 8% and harmful gas emissions. Unless wastes are recycled by employing a circular economy, they will continue to threaten human health and environment at a more critical level. Smart Phone Renting 2019/20 RECYCLED Recycling e-wastes through circular economy not only 91% With the shared economy-based app, we are transitioning offers a solution to an environmental problem, but also 1,291,447 to a renting model to meet the mobile phone requirement involves economic opportunities. As part of our goal-oriented of our corporate customers. In the project, we aim to rent Vodafone strategy, we develop innovative approaches to 30,000 smart phones per year; we enable that phones are solve the e-wastes problem. In 2019, we recycled 91.6% and used in exchange. 59 customers participated in the project TOTAL reused 8.3% of e-wastes. The rate of disposed wastes was and we offered 2,639 renting and 201 repair services. 0.1%. 1,409,929 With the circular economy model we adopt, we conduct Beyond Waste Report collecting, repair, resale and full recycling processes. We enable source efficiency by recycling e-wastes of high We prepared the Beyond Waste research paper to analyze the economic value, and reduce our environmental footprint current status of the e-wastes problem both in our country caused by carbon emissions and wastes. and in the world, to attract to the seven main issues waiting to be solved in this regard, and to crease the background for the Open Innovation Platform process we will realize. The report will reveal the findings on the sources of the problem, 10 Waste 2.0, World Bank Group, 2018 11 E-waste is becoming a global crisis: What are the opportunities? WEF, 2019 and enable that issues waiting to be solved are handled inclusively, technologically and sustainably through the Platform. VODAFONE TURKEY SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2020 34 Responsible Business Message from CEO About the Report Vodafone Turkey Digital Society Inclusion for All Our People Appendices Planet and Value Chain Mobile Phone Exchange Campaign Green Office Program Waste to Code With the project, we offer discount for Vodafone subscribers; Our Headquarter in Istanbul, Maslak, and our Digital We realized the Waste to Code project in order to encourage we offer them the chance to exchange their old mobile Operations Center in Küçükyalı, with the first LEED Platinum recycling e-wastes and create awareness. We collected tons phones with a new one. By exchanging more than 100,000 Certificate of Turkey, have the Green Office Certificate of of e-wastes with the e-waste boxes we place in 67 different old mobile phones annually with new technology products, WWF, supporting decreasing the carbon emissions, energy spots throughout Turkey. With the income we obtained we prevent electronic products to be disposed. The number saving, and using renewable and responsible natural sources. by recycling these e-wastes, we opened coding classes in of phones taken back as part of the project was 9,392. As part of the Green Office Program, we started using digital schools in Mardin, Samsun, Gaziantep and Adana. All children starter packs, nonprint interview and evaluation center to living in these cities may benefit from these coding classes save on paper, Red Academy nonprint practices, Haystack for free. With the project, we have reached thousands of Modem Renewal Project digital cards and FSC-certificated papers. Thus, we could children so far; in the upcoming period, we plan to recycle save on 480,000 papers. We could save on 1,652 m3 water the e-wastes we will collect in collaboration with more than We take modems which are not used anymore, make with low capacity reservoir, waterless pissoir, sensory tap and 3,700 employees from six cities, with the aid of our seven them functional again, and exchange them with old model reduced time; and on 300,000 kWh energy by using sensors corporate business partners, and to open coding classes in modems used by customers. By renewing nearly 58,000 and timers on elevators, stairs, and lighting. In addition, we different cities in Turkey. modems, we eliminated the need for purchasing new have eliminated the use of 6 million disposable plastic cups modems. Thus, we prevented the use of plastics, package, and various plastic products on average annually with the electronic circuit and boxes. Plastic Free Vodafone movement. Plogging Red Loves Green In Vodafone 41st İstanbul Marathon, with an aim to increase Biometric Signature and Digital Identity Half-Sized SIM Card Project environmental awareness and contribute to raising a generation sensible about plastics pollution especially in With biometric signature, we make it possible to sign With the half-sized SIM Card project we launched in 2014, seas, we collected plastic wastes subscription contracts in a digital environment, thus we have decreased the size of SIM cards and packages by along the track together with 70 minimizing human errors. This year, 5 million transactions half. With this project, we eliminated the use of phone cases, employees and their children, were performed with biometric signature. By moving decreased plastic use by half and made SIM card cardboards as part of our Red Loves Green documents comprising of 22.5 million pages to a digital recyclable. In addition, we enabled 15 tons of decrease movement. At the end of the setting, we saved 385 trees from being cut down and saved in greenhouse gas emissions caused by production and track, we separated and sent on papers. With Digital Identity, we store identity information shipping of 1 ton of plastics. In the financial year 2019/20, the plastic wastes collected to securely and as protected against copying. This year, we have we prevented 5.28 tons of plastic use with 2.2 million recycling facilities, and the plastic completed 3.1 million transactions with digital identity and half-sized SIM cards. And we enabled saving on 3.8 tons of caps to Turkish Spinal Cord Injury moved 4.5 million documents to digital. Thus, we saved 78 cardboards with 1.9 million SIM card packages. Association. trees from being cut down. VODAFONE TURKEY SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2020 35 Responsible Business Message from CEO About the Report Vodafone Turkey Digital Society Inclusion for All Planet Appendices Our People and Value Chain Our People 1 2 Contributing to the development of our employees and enabling them have a happy working environment is among our main priorities. We focus on talent management to improve our talents and capacity; we offer equal and fair rights to our employees by creating a diversified and inclusive working environment. In line with our vision of leading digital transformation in Turkey, we firstly digitalize our business processes to make our customers experience high standards; and make our employees a part of this transformation. VODAFONE TURKEY SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2020 36 Responsible Business Message from CEO About the Report Vodafone Turkey Digital Society Inclusion for All Planet Appendices Our People and Value Chain Our Contributions to SDGs SUSTAINABLE DEVELOPMENT GOAL* OUR CONTRIBUTION Our Efforts in the Fight against COVID-19 • We focus on gender equality in workforce and apply practices Digitalization of business processes offers the opportunity to 5.1. End all forms of discrimination against all facilitating the participation of work not bound by time and space. This makes our company women and girls everywhere. women in professional life. prepared and strong against crises caused by external factors. 5.5. Ensure women’s full and effective We have transitioned to home office practice throughout 5 participation and equal opportunities for • We design programs contributing to female leadership and the COVID-19 pandemic, affecting the whole world since the beginning of 2020, to protect our employees and public Gender leadership at all levels of decision-making in competency. Equality political, economic and public life. • At Vodafone Turkey, we attach health. During the pandemic, we offered support for our importance to employment of employees and their immediate families in various fields from 5.5.2. Increase the rate of women in the women. We strive to increase the family counselling to health and psychological counselling management positions female employee ratio above through our LEAP Support Services Line. We have shared 40%. recommendations to protect physical and mental health while working from home, in scope of “Hepiyi”. 8.3. Promote development-oriented policies that support productive activities, decent • Our goal is simplicity and job creation, entrepreneurship, creativity and flexibility with digitalization in innovation, and encourage the formalization office experiences and career 8 and growth of micro-, smalland mediumsized enterprises, including through access paths of employees from recruitment to retirement. Decent Work and to financial services. • We adopt agile working methods Economic Growth by focusing on efficiency and 8.5. By 2030, achieve full and productive being customer-oriented in employment and decent work for all women terms of full and efficient and men, including for young people and employment. persons with disabilities, and equal pay for work of equal value. *Sub-goals and indicators are summarized. VODAFONE TURKEY SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2020 37 Responsible Business Message from CEO About the Report Vodafone Turkey Digital Society Inclusion for All Planet Appendices Our People and Value Chain Equal Opportunity and Diversity At Vodafone, we offer an equal and meantime, we have taken a new step to support all our leave for parenting to men becoming father. Male employees diverse working environment, we treat employees in striking a work-life balance, without any may use their right to paid leave for 16 weeks, defined by each employee equally and provide equal discrimination in terms of gender. While 16-week right to themselves, within 18 months after birth. In the financial year conditions for same work. paid leave is only granted to women giving birth, according 2019/20, 130 employees used their right for parenting and to the Labor Law; we have also granted the right to paid 99% of these employees returned back to work. We support gender equality for a better future in which a healthy, informed and educated generation is raised. We are Employee Ratio by Gender aware that offering women equal opportunities in business Domestic Violence Awareness Training life plays an important role in developing the economy and MALE empowering our company in parallel with this. With this It is important for us to keep our employees safe both 43% FEMALE aim, we have realized our target, keeping the rate of women 57% internally and externally. In this scope, we have published employees over 40%, in the last three years, and we raised the Procedure on Fighting against Domestic Violence this rate to 43% in the financial year 2019/20. This year, in March 2019. As part of the procedure, we offer our 44% of the employees recruited this year were women. In employees, subject to violence and abuse, services such as New Hires Ratio by Gender addition, we also aim at employing at least 60% women consultancy, guiding and access to 24/7 Domestic Violence in technology functions and 50% in other functions for all Hotline dedicated for employees, in case they demand such MALE young talent and internship programs. services. We focus on increasing our corporate awareness 44% 56% FEMALE with the Vodafone Domestic Violence Awareness Training One of the important indicators of equal opportunity is the we prepared based on the Vodafone Domestic Violence and ratio of women representation in decision making positions. Abuse-Policy Guide. Training sessions cover the types of We increased the rate of women employees in management violence, approach to victims and communication methods, Management Ratio by Gender positions in our company for two years, and raised this ratio and support mechanisms in the fight against violence, one from 34% to 37%. Three of five members in the Board of of the major obstacles ahead of gender equity. So far, 60% 2019 37% Managers and two of nine members of the Executive Board of our employees have completed their training. We have are women. included training also in the training orientation program 2018 37% and made it compulsory for all employees. In addition, we We do not let women have hard times in the working have realized various events in cooperation with the United 2017 34% environment due to childcare and support them to pursue Nations Population Fund, such as in-house conversations, to their careers without interruption after giving birth. In the increase awareness throughout the company in this regard. VODAFONE TURKEY SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2020 38 Responsible Business Message from CEO About the Report Vodafone Turkey Digital Society Inclusion for All Planet Appendices Our People and Value Chain Digital Employee Experience In the career path from recruitment to retirement in V-star App hours of work-time digitalization per year. And we have Vodafone Turkey, we offer digital working experience to our made it possible for our employees to save on more than employees. We have flexible timing and flexible location We have realized the Vstar App to enable communication 4,000 hours, thanks to the processes transferred to Octo. In options to support regulating the work and private life with employees in sales channels, to increase their the future, we plan to create an Octo, with sensational and balance. While employees preferring flexible timing are motivation and to monitor the awarding system from cognitive competencies and the ability to analyze and decide working for eight hours of their own choice between 07:00a centralized app. With the V-star app with which via machine learning. Thus, we will be able to use these 19:00, employees preferring flexible location may work from to immediately inform our store employees about robots in processes where more competency is required and wherever they want once each week. announcements on Vodafone products and services, our which are more complex and out of standards; thus, we will employees may track their daily sales, access training be able to use them in more fields. We plan to increase the With DigitalYou app, we provide convenience for our contents and learn by gamification. The app is actively number of robots to over 50. employees in business life and in the meantime, we plan to used by nearly 5000 store employees. The Vstar App has increase agility in the workforce. The digitalization of career been viewed more than 1 million times each month; more planning allow the employees to apply for vacant positions than 300,000 entries have been recorded and the app has via the system. Recruitment and promotion procedures are been downloaded to 10,000 devices in total so far. And the handled through tablets instead of review documents. We satisfaction level we have obtained with the app has been completely removed the need for paper and wet signature 89%. in internal assignments. With this app, smart phones may be used instead of IDs in building exits and entrances, office Robotic Process Automation floor entrances and dining halls. In addition, the lighting and ventilation system within the building may be adjusted We work with more than 20 software bots in scope of the digitally. digital assistant we have commissioned, Octo. With Octo, we have automated our repeated, routine, monotonous and We always ask our employees for their opinions to develop standard processes with defined input and output. Octo is our human resources applications. All Vodafone Group now being used in technology, customer services, human employees have the chance to share ideas regarding the resources, personal and corporate business units within the processes through the global and independent line ExpoLink company. We encourage our employees to utilize the saved by calling 0850 2101901 or visiting wrs.expolink.co.uk/ hours on processes by which they can create added value. vodafone. In the financial year 2019/20, we have realized 92 process, 20 robot, 92 scenario digitalization and, in total, 40,000 VODAFONE TURKEY SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2020 39 Responsible Business Message from CEO About the Report Vodafone Turkey Digital Society Inclusion for All Planet Appendices Our People and Value Chain Agile Transformation In the near future, it is seen that the majority of the workforce Agile Coaching Model have created to empower Scrum Masters. The program lasts will be comprised by the Y generation. This group cares In order to enable that agile transformation is realized for three months, and is comprised of six sessions, namely about conditions such as the work and private life balance successfully and to facilitate cultural transition, we employ Introduction, Facilitating, Personal Awareness, Coaching, and flexible working; in the meantime, they also demand Agile Coaching Model. With this model, the levels of maturity Conflict Management and Synergy. that complex processes causing the business processes slow of the teams are defined and a roadmap is prepared for their down are simplified. In order to become a company preferred development. The team refresh their knowledge on agile Scrum Master Experience Sharing Platform by the new generation and to respond to changes quickly method, and a culture of cooperation is encouraged. Scrum Master may experience certain challenges within and as customer-oriented, we adopt the agile working the team or may experience some favorable applications. method. Thus, we offer a working environment in which Scrum Master Development Program Meetings have been arranged for knowledge and experience employees can make their own decisions and become both Scrum Master is one of the critical roles for agile sharing in scope of the Scrum Master Experience Sharing a part of the team and the owner, and we increase efficiency transformation. It is highly important for the organization Platform organized by agile coaches. With this platform, our by simplifying business processes. We conduct the agile continuity and transformation that these people conduct aim is to find solution to similar problems through shared transformation of Vodafone Turkey, started six years ago, in their responsibilities effectively. Each period, 15 people are intelligence, and to support development of Scrum Masters. three stages: included in the Scrum Master Development Program we 2013 2014 2016 1. Pilot Study: 2. Extensification: 3. Adoption of Agile Working and Cultural Transformation: At the end of 2013, In 2014, we created new teams to extensify the success obtained Since 2016, we have been introducing our way of working through we conducted a pilot with the pilot study and tested the management for other products in-house events, to make agile transformation a part of our study with the sevenand services. The agile team we created within the Information corporate culture. The fact that we have started using the agile member agile team. Technology IT department met nearly 75% of non-full-scale method in company functions other than technology has made us Once the project was demands with agile methods in two years. And we made it possible focus on digital areas within the scope of commercial functions. We share our completed, the rate of to extensify this method in technology units other than IT, such as We created agile teams working on strategically important areas, journey of agile meeting the customer network operation, network planning. The length of time to market such digital customer value management, digital marketing, digital transformation demands increased has been reduced with the cooperation between IT and commercial sales and personal marketing. We enabled three-fold increase in and the processes three-fold. functions; the product quality and production increased. In addition, production rate, 2.5-fold in capacity development, three-fold in we have passed the team spirit has improved and teamwork has become common launch date performance, and five-fold in quality indicators. In through in detailed within the company. Thanks to our successful projects, we have 2019 by enlarging the scope of agile working, the full of personal in the Our Agile been selected as the Center of Excellence among Vodafone marketing transformed and started to work in an agile way. Story booklet. countries; and started offering agile training and coaching services for other Vodafone companies. VODAFONE TURKEY SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2020 40 Responsible Business Message from CEO About the Report Vodafone Turkey Digital Society Inclusion for All Planet Appendices Our People and Value Chain Talent and Performance Management Talents play an important role in achieving the strategic We realize performance management system to carry The remuneration system is based on attracting and retaining targets of our company. We invest in talent management to the talents forward. This system, namely Performance the talents that best serve corporate strategy, and rewarding support development of current talents and to include new Improvement, focuses on constant development of employees in a fair and consistent manner. In Vodafone talents in our team. In line with our target of raising the future employees through regular and instant feedbacks. The Turkey, renumeration includes rewarding the employees with leaders among our employees, we conduct local and global system enables our employees to set open and clear a base salary, a bonus system per position (based on annual talent programs. individual targets in line with corporate goals, and guides sales and quarter), and an instant comprehensive and flexible them. benefits package. As a company constantly investing in developing talents, it is important for us that qualified employees prefer to stay in The Performance Improvement process is composed of four Please click here to see the remuneration approach of Vodafone Turkey and plan a long career journey. Half of our main steps: target setting, quarterly interviews, half-year Vodafone Turkey. employees have been working as part of our team for five review and end-of-the-year review. Employees and managers or more years. And the employee turnover was 19% in the meet in regular intervals throughout the year. The strengths It is important for us that the talents within the company financial year 2019/20. and improvement areas of employees are reviewed; personal contribute to Vodafone Turkey for long years. We announce development plans are defined in line with their longthe vacant positions within the company to our employees Please click here to see the talent management term career targets, and their personal performances are first, through the Red Experience app, and give them priority. approach of Vodafone Turkey. evaluated in line with the targets defined at the beginning of The rate of positions filled by internal candidates in the the year. 2019/20 financial year was 67%. Employee Ratio by Working Duration The outputs of performance process provide input for other critical human resources processes such as training and development, talent management, pay management and rewards, career management. 0-5 YEARS 10 YEARS AND OVER 26% 50% Please click here to see the performance management 5-10 YEARS system of Vodafone Turkey. 24% VODAFONE TURKEY SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2020 41 Responsible Business Message from CEO About the Report Vodafone Turkey Digital Society Inclusion for All Planet Appendices Our People and Value Chain Red Academy Red Academy Development Programs This year, we completely renewed our development solutions With Red Academy, the Vodafone Turkey development and approach as Red Academy. We consider skill and talent center, we offer opportunities to develop for dealers, Fit for Future Reskilling Academy development as meeting the business model needs of the business partners, customers and university students, (UX, Devops, Big Data, Cloud etc.) future, as an important point of being a digital company and especially our employees. Our aim is to assist our ready for the future. One of our main goals is to implement stakeholders in using mobile technologies and developing Digital Development Catalog development solutions that will meet these needs. their digital competencies. (Change Management, Art of Reconciliation, Psychological Resilience etc.) As agile work brings us to our lives, much of learning In the financial year 2019/20, we provided 105,677 happens by trying, practicing, discussing and developing people*hour training to our employees, with hours Discover Development Program insight. We support our employees for the skills and roles of of training corresponded to 35 per employee. With Red the future with experience-based online/virtual laboratory Academy, we reached more than 32,000 people including Digital Onboarding Programs environments that we will reskill & upskill. We design 3,000 Vodafone, 8,328 distributor, 16,571 sub-distributor, online development opportunities with different content 4,500 call center employees. Leadership Development Programs and learning levels under topics such as Social e-Lab, (Digital Leadership Essentials, Women Commercial e-Lab and Technology e-Lab. We started Leadership Program etc.) and continue to realize these special opportunities for target audiences in virtual classroom environments. Culture&Exchange Programs We have designed Reskilling Academies that will provide Vodafone United and Let’s Agile Team our employees with new professions and skills, and with Coaching Program these academies, we plan our employees to move into future roles by reshaping their careers. As part of our investments Skill Development Programs in development, we launched the greenbox video studio (Phyton, Digital Marketing, RPA, AI, UX, Data, we prepared in our Teknokent building in January. With this Cloud, Product Management etc.) studio, we can produce video-based online training. Agile Development Programs (Agile 2.0, Product Owner training, Scrum Master training etc.) VODAFONE TURKEY SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2020 42 Responsible Business Message from CEO About the Report Vodafone Turkey Digital Society Inclusion for All Planet Appendices Our People and Value Chain Coaching Programs ReConnect Young Talents: Global Columbus Coaching processes focused on employee development With the global recruitment program ReConnect, Talent Exchange Program continues as of 2017: Executive Coaching Program, Internal launched by Vodafone Group, we support women taking a Coaching Program. In addition to coaching programs, the break from their careers to return back to work. Our aim is After two years of work at Vodafone Turkey, the Discovers Corporate Mentorship Program that has been ongoing to access to nearly 1000 experienced women employees are included in the global assessment center. The successful since 2014 supports the professional development and in Vodafone countries through the program. In Vodafone ones gain the right to work at a different Vodafone career management of employees regardless of their age, Turkey, 11 people have been recruited in scope of the country for a specific period of time, within the scope of experience and position. So far, we have had 585 pairs of program. the Columbus Program. We have sent our two employees mentors and mentees. As part of the program lasting for to Greece and Hungary, and next year, we will host an approximately one year, the Red Academy initially offers International Development Program employee from Ireland. So far, 17 talents have gained mentee and mentorship training. At least one meeting is The International Development Program provides the working experience in different Vodafone countries conducted each month. opportunity for our employees to work for 4 to 10 weeks through the Columbus Program. in countries that Vodafone Group is operating in. With 1. Executive Coaching Program this program, employees improve themselves in different Employee Engagement and Volunteering Every year, almost 30 mid-level and senior managers take environments and transfer the experience they obtained We execute the Vodafone Volunteers program to support from consultants providing professional coaching at Vodafone Turkey to employees in other countries. improve volunteering awareness in employees service. Managers select their coach and identify the targets Furthermore, they gain experience in different positions and and to encourage participation in social responsibility events that they will work on throughout the process in the program this enables them to establish relations with others fulfilling of the institution. We give two days off per year for our which consists of 8 sessions. similar roles in the global scale. While our seven employees employees to make it possible for them to support social were working in four different countries throughout the responsibility projects especially realized by Turkey Vodafone 2. Internal Coaching Program program, an employee from Vodafone Greece was in Turkey. Foundation. Mostly, our employees serve as trainers to the Employees in different roles or professional coaches students at Coding Tomorrow, and mentors to the women provide support regarding career improvement and talent at Women First in Entrepreneurship. In order to increase the management to employees in a process of 6-8 sessions. In number of volunteers in the Coding Tomorrow project, we scope of the program, the coaches are supported through provided trainer training on coding to 113 employees from supervisory, internal coaching support program and newly employed new talents and from customer services workshops. teams within the financial year 2019/20. VODAFONE TURKEY SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2020 43 Message from CEO About the Report Vodafone Turkey Digital Society Inclusion for All Planet Our People Responsible Business Appendices and Value Chain Responsible Business and Value Chain 1 Throughout our value chain, we aim at creating value for Our Contributions to SDGs our stakeholders with a responsible approach ranging from observing social and environmental conditions in all SUSTAINABLE DEVELOPMENT GOAL* CONTRIBUTION OF VODAFONE TURKEY our operations and events to public health. We prioritize healthy and safe working conditions, and act in line with a fair, responsible, transparent, and accountable corporate • We include respect for human rights management approach. We follow international and national into all work processes along with the requirements to protect personal information our employees Vodafone Code of Conduct, based have been sharing with us. We also want our business 8.7. Eliminating modern slavery, on international principles concerning partners to act in line with these principles, forming the basis of our business. 8 human trading and child labor human rights, and minimize the risks for the violations of human rights such as Decent Work and 8.8. Protecting employee rights Economic Growth forced labor and child labor. and supporting safe working • We establish safe and healthy working environments environments within the scope of Vodafone Occupational Health and Safety Management System. • We adopt ethical way of working; and manage anti-bribery movement within 16 16.6. Establishing effective, accountable and transparent the frame of ISO 37001 Anti-Bribery Management System. Peace, Justice and • We transparently share the steps we Strong Institutions organizations at every level have taken to secure public health within the frame of mobile devices and base stations. *Sub-goals and indicators are summarized. VODAFONE TURKEY SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2020 44 Message from CEO About the Report Vodafone Turkey Digital Society Inclusion for All Planet Our People Responsible Business Appendices and Value Chain Occupational Health and Safety Ensuring our employees’ and business partners’ health into the system with the necessary actions. Thanks to this In the financial year 2019/20, we have started checking and safety is among our main responsibilities. As part of global system, the accident study processes are constantly safety belts with internal cameras in all our service vehicles. occupational health and safety (OHS), we realize applications, improved, and the reporting process gets more efficient. In Thus, we can see whether our employees use safety belts or serving as examples to our industry, and encourage our the results of the People Survey, the internal HR customer not and provide them feedbacks. This project, in which we business partners to enable high-standard safety conditions. satisfaction measurement survey conducted annually, the provided feedback to 1.050 employees by attaching internal top satisfaction score goes to the OHS for the past four years. cameras in 250 service vehicles, has been granted with an We manage OHS at the highest level. Occupational Health, We received the Golden Award in the Workplace Safety and award by Vodafone Group. Safety, Environment and Welfare (OHSE-W) Senior Manager, Compliance category during the 2019 Stevie Awards we the top executive in this field, serves only two reporting applied with our prominent applications. levels below the CEO. The 33 OHS boards all around Turkey, including the headquarters, include department We support extensifying the OHSE-W culture through representatives, employer, and employee representatives. training. We provided 6,470 people*hour OHS training The boards hold regular meetings every two months. All in total for our employees, for average eight hours per parties can share their demands regarding OHSE-W issues at employee. The contractors received 61,207 people*hour OHS Boards, and the boards make decisions regarding these OHS training in total. demands. We track our targets at senior management and Group level by preparing annual plans. Vodafone 8 Absolute Occupational Health and Safety Rules In line with our Occupational Safety Excellence and Zero This year, the 7 Absolute Rules, established by Vodafone Accident goal, we have defined standards complying with Group to effectively manage the seven critical issues international systems like International Safety Rating System on which accident risk is the highest by focusing on the (ISRS) and ISO 39001 Road Traffic Safety Management common causes of death or injury cases throughout the System on OHSE-W. We expect all employees, contractors, world, have been updated. Among the rules, we have suppliers, and their sub-contractors to fulfill the standards we included the requirement to always protect the safe distance have defined. and to use insulated equipment while working close to energy lines for all our employees, especially our network Vodafone Turkey assesses all accidents and near misses field teams. Now, we base on the 8 Absolute Rules in all our that occur within 24 hours, and we ensure that entered operations. VODAFONE TURKEY SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2020 45 Message from CEO About the Report Vodafone Turkey Digital Society Inclusion for All Planet Our People Responsible Business Appendices and Value Chain OHS for the Contractors Wellbeing Program We assess our contractors in detail regarding OHS before starting cooperation. We include Vodafone OHS standard Thanks to the program, namely “Hepiyi”, we support compliance, sanctions against OHS non-compliances and site our employees on mental, physical, social, financial, and occupational safety visits to our contracts. Within this scope, environmental issues. We offer them different contents, we carry out site visits to base stations. such as ergonomics and sports videos, specialist guests and conversations. We continue to encourage our employees In 2019, we evaluated 56 contractors in scope of OHS and in sports and health with the wellbeing competition we found 156 violations. The number of violations decreased by organize in October of every year. 18% compared to 2018. Number of Site Audits at Base Stations Contractors and OHS 2019/20 1,407 156 56 2018/19 1,616 190 61 2017/18 1,316 192 22 Number of Contractor OHS Number of Contractors Violations VODAFONE TURKEY SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2020 46 Message from CEO About the Report Vodafone Turkey Digital Society Inclusion for All Planet Our People Responsible Business Appendices and Value Chain Corporate Governance We are building relations with all stakeholders based on ISO 37001 ISO 37001 Anti-Bribery Management System the principles of fairness, transparency, responsibility, and Standard accountability. Vodafone’s Chairman and CEO roles are We do not tolerate any kind of corruption and bribery. The carried out by different individuals in line with the principle first technology and telecommunications company with ISO of separation of power. While Vodafone Turkey Board 37001 Certification for Anti-Bribery Management Systems of Directors is composed of five members including two Standard. We evaluate suppliers and business partners in women, the Executive Board is composed of nine members, terms of anti-bribery policy before we start working together, including two women. and we provide in-class and online training sessions for employees on anti-bribery. Work Ethics and Anti-Corruption Vodafone Code of Conduct guides us in all our relations Human Rights with all our stakeholders. The business principles we have We adopt the principle of respecting human rights of every defined in this regard are binding to all parties working with individual, from our employees in our operations to suppliers Vodafone besides employees, contractors, affiliates, joint in the value chain and to local societies. Vodafone Code of ventures, and suppliers. In addition to the Code of Conduct, Conduct reveals our sense of expectations and responsibility we comply with the policies of Vodafone Group alongside regarding human rights. In accordance, the United Nations national and international laws and regulations. (UN) Human Rights Declaration, UN Guiding Principles on Business and Human Rights and International Labor We assess corruption risks and take precautions. We Organization Conventions are our guides in this respect. established a corruption monitoring system for sales channels and a scoring system for the performances of our We offer our employees working environments that fulfill dealers in this respect. Thus, we reduce potential losses by human rights, occupational safety and health, ethics, preventing corruption before it happens. and environment protection standards. We ensure all our suppliers and business partners also act in line with these In cases of violation of ethical principles, anti-bribery and standards with Code of Ethical Purchasing. human rights, employees may report their notifications through SpeakUp and external stakeholders may report their notifications through Red Line. All stakeholders may report anonymously through the website or by calling. VODAFONE TURKEY SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2020 47 Message from CEO About the Report Vodafone Turkey Digital Society Inclusion for All Planet Our People Responsible Business Appendices and Value Chain Corporate Security Management focusing on training sessions on theory and practices Within the scope of Corporate Security Management, and consisting of issues such as city search and rescue, we identify possible threats that may damage the brand maintaining life in times of disasters, access and rescue and reputation of Vodafone Turkey and come up with with ropes. We have continued training sessions for solutions that will prevent them. Accordingly, we manage 130 employees in the financial year 2019/20. After the the processes of identifying and preventing abuse, fighting earthquake in Albania, nine of our volunteers went to the against corruption, preventing laundering crime revenues, region and participated in the technical rescue efforts, lasting identifying the states of suppliers, ensuring information for 96 hours, in wrecks of two different buildings. Throughout security, confidentiality, and work continuity, raising physical the operation, we have supported our volunteers in logistics, safety and security awareness. manpower and telecommunication, in cooperation with Ankara AFAD Management. ISO 22320 ISO 22320 Emergency Management Standard Certification As our corporate culture, we prioritize enabling continuous communication in every condition, thanks to our business continuity management and emergency preparations. With the projects we have conducted to enable continuous communication services in cases of possible disasters, we received the international ISO 22320 Emergency Management Standard Certificate in Turkey. We have passed the international audit successfully; and become the first company receiving this certificate in the Turkish telecommunication sector, not only in the Vodafone Group. Therefore, we have been fighting against the outcomes of natural or human-induced disasters which may occur during emergenciesand have increased our capacity to enable business continuity. Search and Rescue Team We have the first Search and Rescue Team within Vodafone Group. There are 126 active volunteers in our team. We provide 116-hour training to our Search and Rescue Team, VODAFONE TURKEY SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2020 48 Message from CEO About the Report Vodafone Turkey Digital Society Inclusion for All Planet Our People Responsible Business Appendices and Value Chain Supply Chain Management We expect our suppliers to also work in line with our high standards and guide our business relations in this regard. We expect the standards, that we have defined in environmental, social, and ethical areas in Vodafone Code of Conduct and Vodafone Ethical Purchasing Behaviors, to be met. We support our suppliers in adopting these standards. We are implementing a variety of different applications to support the development of our 680 supplier: • We conduct visits to field to check compliance with the criteria we have defined. • As a group, we have been taking various actions as part of the fight against Modern Slavery12, and provide online training in this regard. • We organize a Supplier Day every year, welcoming more than 100 suppliers. We provide trainings in subjects such as Ethics and Anti-Corruption Practices, Trade and Network Operations, Occupational Health and Safety. In addition, we have been receiving feedback from our suppliers. • By organizing the Supplier Safety Forum every year, we raise awareness regarding occupational safety and health among suppliers deemed as at high risk. • We execute the Vodafone Supplier Performance Program. We identify the improvement areas of our suppliers and encourage them to improve their performances in these areas. 12 Vodafone Group, Modern Slavery Statement, 2019-2020 VODAFONE TURKEY SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2020 49 Message from CEO About the Report Vodafone Turkey Digital Society Inclusion for All Planet Our People Responsible Business Appendices and Value Chain Data Security As digitalization speeds up, the importance of data security regarding this subject. We hold training sessions to raise and privacy of personal data increases. Protecting the awareness regarding personal data protection among personal data is among our main responsibilities for our employees including sales channels and customer services customers. In line with the Vodafone Code of Conduct, divisions. We add the Data Processing Addendum (DPA) to we expect our employees and business partners fulfill the contracts of our suppliers and business partners in order this commitment. In order to protect our customers’ data to improve and audit their data protection performances. We and to proactively manage cyber security risks, we are classify our suppliers based on the quality of the service that employing the necessary program and control mechanisms they provide and assess information and technology safety in compliance with international standards. once a year with a visit made by our teams. In scope of data security, we abide by the ISO 27001 We strive to integrate data confidentiality and security to the Information Security Management System Standard, Personal processes of all business divisions under the title of Vodafone Data Protection Law, and respective regulations. We protect Turkey Corporate Access Management. With this system, we the mobile communication and credit card information of our automated the authority demand flows and authority review customers as well as their personal information in line with processes of some applications, databases and operating the International Information Security Management Standard systems. We integrated the databases to the operating ISO/IEC 27001 and PCI-DSS security standards defined by system and improved the processes. Thus, we realized an the PCI Security Standards Council. application that would eliminate the problems in the access process and enable end-to-end access management. We notify our customers through different channels within the framework of Personal Data Protection Law. The customers can access the information regarding the ISO 27001 protection of personal data through our website, sales channels, and customer services, and forward their requests VODAFONE TURKEY SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2020 50 Message from CEO About the Report Vodafone Turkey Digital Society Inclusion for All Planet Our People Responsible Business Appendices and Value Chain Mobile Devices, Masts, Public Health Aiming at contributing to health of our consumers and the negative impact on human health when mobile devices and society is among our main responsibilities. It is our principle base stations are used within WHO and ICNIRP science-based to respond to common concerns transparently and openly reference compliance limits. about mobile devices and masts, and we commit to comply with all regulations in this regard. To eliminate the concerns of our stakeholders about mobile devices and base stations and to ensure a healthy flow of Vodafone base stations and mobile devices that we provide information, we realise following actions in below; to our customers are primarily installed, used and audited compliance with the laws and regulations determined by the • We publish the latest scientific studies on our website, Information and Communication Technologies Authority. In • We make EMF trainings compulsory to our employees and addition, the reference values defined by the International suppliers, Commission on Non-Ionizing Radiation Protection (ICNIRP), • Within the scope of our Vodafone-specific EMF Policy, we an independent consulting organization working in apply a standard operating procedure across our entire cooperation with World Health Organization (WHO) that is network. In the international group audit conducted by also referenced in the regulation created by the regulatory Vodafone Group last year, we successfully completed the authority in our country, are taken into account. Electric / audit as “fully compliant” within the scope of this policy electromagnetic field limit values ​​applied in our country are and practice. much more cautious and lower than ICNIRP and limit values ​​ • We place EMF warning signs to our sites and conduct site determined by many countries. Our company is sensitive to visits. this in our country as well as all over the world and installs • All stations are Security Certificate issued by BTK is and operates its systems in full compliance. established with. • Regular field inspections are carried out. Mobile devices use radio waves to make calls, send and • Unauthorized access is not allowed. receive data from a base station, creating a kind of electric and electromagnetic field (EMF). Under our EMF policies, we do not allow the use of devices with a SAR value (Specific Absorption Rate) higher than the ICNIRP Standard, which are not approved or do not offer information about SAR value in their manuals. The studies indicate no proof of a VODAFONE TURKEY SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2020 51 Responsible Business Message from CEO About the Report Vodafone Turkey Digital Society Inclusion for All Planet Our People and Value Chain Appendices Memberships and Collaborations Association of Intelligent Transport Systems (AUSDER) Habitat Foundation TOBB Telecommunication Council Association of Accumulator and Recycling Industrialists (AKÜDER) Interactive Advertising Bureau of Turkey (IAB Turkey) Turkish Industry and Business Association (TÜSIAD) Mother Child Education Foundation (AÇEV) Istanbul Chamber of Commerce (ITO) Turkish Informatics Association (TBD) Information Security Association (BGD) World Business Council for Sustainable Development (WBCSD) Turkish Informatics Foundation (TBV) United Brands Association (BMD) Mobile Telecommunication Operators Association (MTOD) Turkish Public Relations Association (TÜHID) United Nations Global Compact (UNGC) Payment and Electronic Money Association (ÖDED) Turkish Businesswomen Association (TIKAD) Call Center Association (ÇMD) Private Sector Volunteers Association (ÖSGD) Third Sector Foundation of Turkey (TÜSEV) Environment Protection and Packaging Waste Recovery and Recycling PERYÖN People Management Association of Turkey The British Chamber of Commerce in Turkey (BCCT) Trust (ÇEVKO) Turkish Advertisers Association (RVD) International Investors Association (YASED) Foreign Economic Relations Board of Turkey (DEIK) TEGEP Training and Development Platform Association YANINIZDAYIZ Association DEIK Turkish-British Work Council (DEIK TIIK) Women in Technology Association (WTECH) Women Corporate Directors (WCD) GSM Association (GSMA) Telecommunication Operators Association (TELKODER) WWF-Turkey (World Wildlife Fund) Endeavor Turkey Telecommunication Satellite and Broadcast Business People Association The Union of Access Providers (ESB) (TUYAD) Global Relations Forum (GIF) TOBB Young Entrepreneurs Board (TOBB GGK) VODAFONE TURKEY SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2020 52 Responsible Business Message from CEO About the Report Vodafone Turkey Digital Society Inclusion for All Planet Our People and Value Chain Appendices Environmental Performance Indicators Energy Consumption (GJ) 2017/18 2018/19 2019/20 Base Stations 1,571,225 1,596,104 1,598,759 Technology Systems 272,376 271,307 261,716 Office Buildings 56,657 57,659 56,391 Vehicle Fuel Oil 51,519 50,561 47,621 Total 1,951,777 1,975,632 1,964,488 Renewable energy consumption within the total 959 1,027 1,590 Greenhouse Gas Emissions (ton CO2) 2017/18 2018/19 2019/20 Scope 1 18,129.0 15,920.4 14,192.1 Fuel Oil 4,666.2 5,067.9 4,331.9 Vehicles 3,873.1 3,803.8 3,582.6 F-gases 9,589.6 7,048.7 6,277.6 Scope 2 260,143.1 260,694,5 264,589.3 Base Stations 215,268.0 215,878.0 221,134.8 Technology Systems 37,944.2 37,674.0 36,410.3 Offices 6,930.8 7,141.5 7,044.2 Scope 3 (Flights and shuttles) 2,638.2 3,488.6 4,114.6 Total 280,910.2 280,102.5 282,896.0 Water Consumption (m3) 2017/18 2018/19 2019/20 Municipal water 41,659 38,872 41,960 E-wastes 2018/19 2019/20 Recovered and recycled 2,628,600 1,291,447 Reused 442,379 117,097 Sent to landfill 3,730 1,385 Total 3,074,709 1,409,929 Essentials of Reporting Greenhouse gas emissions have been calculated in accordance with the Greenhouse Gas Protocol methodology of the WRI/WBCSD. In the calculations, CO2-equivalent factors, resulting from CO2, CH4, N2O and HFCs (cooling gas) emissions, have been used. Global warming potential (GWP) coefficients have been taken from the 5th Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change (IPCC). The sub-heating values and TEP cycling coefficients of the energy sources have been taken from tables in the “Directive on Increasing the Efficiency in the Use of Energy Sources and Energy”, published in the official gazette, no. 28097, dated 27 October 2011. 1 kcal has been taken as 4.184 kJ, and 1 GJ has been taken as 0.2777 MWh. Current Turkish Electricity Transmission Corporation data has been used when calculating greenhouse gas caused by electricity consumption. VODAFONE TURKEY SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2020 53 Responsible Business Message from CEO About the Report Vodafone Turkey Digital Society Inclusion for All Planet Our People and Value Chain Appendices Social Performance Indicators Employees by Gender 2017/18 2018/19 2019/20 Female Male Female Male Female Male Number of employees 1,324 1,848 1,328 1,809 1,281 1,723 Total 3.172 3.137 3.016 Employees by Term of Employment 0-5 years 716 883 704 859 681 817 5-10 years 251 401 281 415 291 437 10+ years 357 564 343 535 314 476 Number of New Recruits 30years old 132 111 110 98 116 124 31-49 years old 79 125 78 115 61 99 50+ years old 0 4 0 5 0 1 Total number of employees recruited within the year 211 240 188 218 177 224 Employee Turnover 30years old 146 78 122 67 94 87 31-49 years old 170 236 112 204 159 235 50+ years old 1 8 0 13 0 9 Total number of employees who left within the year 317 322 234 284 253 331 Performance Review Number of employees subject to performance review 1,369 1,328 1,328 1,809 1,281 1723 Number of Employees at Senior Management with Gender and Age 30years old 0 0 0 0 0 0 31-49 years old 58 106 62 98 62 99 50+ years old 1 11 1 11 1 8 Parental Leave Number of employees on parental leave 68 89 76 104 40 90 Number of employees returned from parental leave 68 89 74 102 40 89 Employee Trainings Total training hours 104,792 101,050 105,677 OHS training 95,626 91,827 67,677 VODAFONE TURKEY SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2020 54 Responsible Business Message from CEO About the Report Vodafone Turkey Digital Society Inclusion for All Planet Our People and Value Chain Appendices GRI Content Index GRI Standard Disclosure References GRI Standard Disclosure References GRI 101: Foundation 2016 GRI 101: Foundation 2016 GRI 102: General Disclosures 2016 GRI 102: General Disclosures 2016 Organizational Profile Reporting Practice 102-1 4 102-45 4 102-2 4, 5 102-46 9, 10 102-3 Vodafone Plaza, Büyükdere Cad. No: 251, Maslak 34398, İstanbul 102-47 8-10 102-4 4 102-48 There were no restatements. All shares of Vodafone Turkey Group of Companies are owned by 102-49 8 102-5 GRI 102: General Vodafone Group Plc. 102-50 4 102-6 4 Disclosures 2016 102-51 1 April 2019 31 March 2020 102-7 5 102-52 Sustainability Report is published annually. 102-8 54 102-53 3 102-9 44, 49 102-54 3 During 2019/20 fiscal year, there were no significant changes 102-10 regarding size, structure, ownership or supply chain in Vodafone 102-55 55 Turkey. 102-56 No assurance is taken. 102-11 47 GRI 200: Economic Standard Series 2016 102-12 52 Economic Performance 102-13 52 GRI 103: Management 103-1 6 GRI 102: General Strategy Approach 2016 103-2 6 Disclosures 2016 102-14 3 103-3 5, 6 102-15 6, 47-51 GRI 201: Economic 201-1 5, 6 Ethics and Integrity Performance 2016 102-16 47 Indirect Economic Impact 102-17 47 GRI 103: Management 103-1 6 Governance Approach 2016 103-2 6 102-18 7, 47 103-3 6, 51 102-19 7 GRI 203: Indirect 203-1 6 102-20 7 Economic Impact 2016 203-2 6, 51 Stakeholder Engagement 102-40 11 Anti-corruption Although Vodafone Turkey employees are not unionised, we GRI 103: Management 103-1 47, 48 102-41 Approach 2016 respect the right of collective bargaining. 103-2 47, 48 102-42 8 103-3 47, 48 102-43 11 GRI 205: 205-1 47, 48 102-44 8-10 Anti-corruption 2016 205-2 47, 48 VODAFONE TURKEY SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2020 55 Responsible Business Message from CEO About the Report Vodafone Turkey Digital Society Inclusion for All Planet Our People and Value Chain Appendices GRI Standard Disclosure References GRI Standard Disclosure References GRI 300: Environmental Standards Series GRI 400: Social Standards Series Energy Labour/Management Relations GRI 103: Management 103-1 32 GRI 103: Management 103-1 36, 37 Approach 2016 103-2 32 Approach 2016 103-2 36, 37 103-3 32 103-3 36, 37 302-1 32 GRI 302: Energy 2016 302-3 32, 33 GRI 402: Labour/ Minimum legal notice periods are applied regarding operational Management 402-1 302-4 32 Relations 2016 changes. Water Occupational Health and Safety GRI 103: Management 103-1 30, 53 GRI 103: Management 103-1 30, 53 Approach 2016 103-2 30, 53 Approach 2016 103-2 30, 53 103-3 30, 53 103-3 30, 53 GRI 303: Water 2016 303-1 53 403-1 45 Emissions 403-2 45 GRI 103: Management 103-1 32, 33 Approach 2016 GRI 403: Occupational 403-3 46 103-2 32, 33 Health and Safety 403-4 45, 46 103-3 32, 33 2018 403-5 45 305-1 33, 53 403-7 46 GRI 305: Emissions 305-2 33, 53 403-8 45 2016 305-3 33, 53 Training and Education 305-5 33, 53 GRI 103: Management 103-1 9, 36, 41 Water and Effluents Approach 2016 103-2 36, 41 GRI 103: Management 103-1 34 103-3 36, 41 Approach 2016 103-2 34 404-1 42 103-3 34 GRI 404: Training and 404-2 42, 43 GRI 303: Water and Education 2016 306-2 34, 53 404-3 54 Effluents 2016 Diversity and Equal Opportunity GRI 400: Social Standards Series GRI 103: Management 103-1 10, 36-38 Employment Approach 2016 103-2 38 GRI 103: Management 103-1 36-38 103-3 38 Approach 2016 103-2 36-38 405-1 38, 54 103-3 36-38 GRI 405: Diversity and 401-1 38, 54 Equal Opportunity GRI 401: Employment 2016 405-2 There is no gender-based discrimination in renumeration. 401-2 38, 41, 54 2016 401-3 38, 54 Non-discrimination GRI 103: Management 103-1 10, 36-38 Approach 2016 103-2 38 103-3 38 GRI 406: Non406-1 No notification regarding discrimination is received. discrimination 2016 VODAFONE TURKEY SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2020 56 Responsible Business Message from CEO About the Report Vodafone Turkey Digital Society Inclusion for All Planet Our People and Value Chain Appendices GRI Standard Disclosure References GRI 400: Social Standards Series Supplier Social Assessment GRI 103: Management 103-1 10, 44, 49 Approach 2016 103-2 44, 49 103-3 44, 49 GRI 414: Supplier Social 414-1 49 Assessment 2016 Customer Health and Safety GRI 103: Management 103-1 10, 51 Approach 2016 103-2 51 103-3 51 GRI 416: Customer 416-1 51 Health and Safety 2016 Customer Privacy GRI 103: Management 103-1 9, 50 Approach 2016 103-2 50 103-3 50 GRI 416: Customer 418-1 50 Privacy 2016 Material Topics That Are Not Covered by the GRI Standards Technological Innovation 103-1 9, 15 103-2 9, 15 103-3 9, 15-19 Digital Customer and Employee Experience 103-1 9, 15 103-2 9, 15 GRI 103: Management 103-3 9, 15-19 Approach 2016 Women’s Empowerment 103-1 9, 22 103-2 9, 22, 24 103-3 9, 24-25 Youth Skills and Jobs 103-1 9, 22 103-2 9, 22, 26 103-3 9, 26-27 VODAFONE TURKEY SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2020 57 Responsible Business Message from CEO About the Report Vodafone Turkey Digital Society Inclusion for All Planet Our People and Value Chain Appendices Communication Reporting Consultancy Vodafone Telekomünikasyon A.Ş. Vodafone Plaza, Büyükdere Caddesi, Yeşilce Mahallesi, Yunus Emre Caddesi, Nil Ticaret Merkezi, No: 251, Maslak 34398, İstanbul No: 8 Kat: 1, 4. Levent 34418 İstanbul T: 0850 542 00 00 (Vodafone Center) www.s360.com.tr T: 0542 542 00 00 (Vodafone Customer Services) or 542 (for Vodafone Customers) Report Design www.vodafone.com.tr For more information on the Sustainability Report: info@data-iletisim.com surdurulebilirlik@vodafone.com www.icerikvetasarim.com Vodafone Turkey Sustainability Report was prepared solely for informative purposes. All content and information in info@roundabout.com.tr this Report are prepared using the information and sources www.roundabout.com.tr deemed to be accurate and reliable in the period the Report was written. None of the information and content in this Report can be interpreted as a statement, warranty and/or commitment; nor is it guaranteed that the information and content in this Report is complete and unchangeable. All rights of this report reserved by Vodafone Turkey. VODAFONE TURKEY SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2020 58 Responsible Business Message from CEO About the Report Vodafone Turkey Digital Society Inclusion for All Planet Our People and Value Chain Appendices VODAFONE TURKEY SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2020
