CSR Report Communication on Progress / 2019 CSR Report / Communication on Progress / 2019 1 Content Statement from CEO 3 Egmont at a glance 5 CSR highlights 6 Egmont’s approach to corporate responsibility 8 Our company Supervisory boards 12 Business ethics and whistleblowing 14 GDPR 15 Environment and climate 16 Sustainable business practices – cases 21 Charitable activities 23 Our employees Egmont’s workforce 28 Gender balance 29 Our supply chains Social compliance programme 34 UK modern slavery statement 38 Product safety and quality 39 Cases 40 This report includes Egmont’s mandatory CSR reporting in accordance with article 99a, and Egmont’s report on targets and policy with respect to the underrepresented gender in accordance with article 99b, of the Danish Financial Statements Act (Årsregnskabsloven). 2 CSR Report / Communication on Progress / 2019 Statement from CEO In Egmont we believe that responsible behaviour and sustainable business practices are essential for being a strong and trusted media group. Our social engagement dates back to 1878 when Egmont was established. It is part of the company DNA, and we continuously strive to explore and refine our commitment to be a responsible company that acts with integrity wherever we operate. During 2019, Egmont has continued to work towards setting standards of excellence to ensure that our DNA is reflected in the behaviour of our employees, among other things by launching a new Business Ethics Policy and training. The Policy covers various aspects of conducting business based on compliance, responsibility, and integrity. During 2019, Egmont has developed a baseline for its direct and indirect climate impact. In 2020, Egmont will continue to assess how we can mitigate negative impacts from our operations, while also maintaining focus on the benefits to society from our educational and charitable activities. Egmont has been a signatory to the UN Global Compact since 2013, and we use it as a formal framework for our Corporate Social Responsibility (CSR) initiatives and operations. The present report is the seventh of its kind. Egmont is fully committed to respect human rights and labour rights as set forth in the UN Guiding Principles, and our efforts are directed at both employees in Egmont and at our business partners and suppliers. Steffen Kragh President & CEO of Egmont CSR Report / Communication on Progress / 2019 3 +30 countries 4 CSR Report / Communication on Progress / 2019 Egmont at a glance 1.7bn Egmont is a leading media group in the Nordics. In 2020, Egmont marks its 100th anniversary as a commercial foundation with a dual purpose: to develop tomorrow’s media and to support vulnerable children and young people. The strategy “Grow with the Modern Consumer” entails investments in digital growth and new tech-based businesses while applying technology to strong storytelling. The annual profit is invested in business development and in the EUR revenue charitable activities to support vulnerable children and young people as well as donations for film talents through Nordisk Film Fonden. Concurrently, Egmont is continuously evaluating the possibilities to improve and optimise sustainability and social responsibility within its commercial activities. Egmont Commercial activities Charitable activities Egmont Publishing Nordisk Film TV 2 Books Funding and Grant Administration Magazines Film production Tv channels Fiction and distribution Multimedia publishing Streaming services Education Cinemas and technologies E-commerce Digital Games Marketing services Digital gift card solutions CSR Report / Communication on Progress / 2019 5 CSR highlights Egmont is working with goal 4, 5, 8, 12, 13, 16 and 17. Each goal has been identified based on the potential negative impact and the best opportunities that the Egmont Group may have to positively impact the goal. Egmont’s CO2 emission by category Transportation 20% Paper 49% Plastic 19% Packaging Energy 2% consumption 11% The underrepresented gender shall constitute at least 1/3 of the members of the supervisory boards in Egmont by end of 2024* *Appointed by the annual meeting 6 CSR Report / Communication on Progress / 2019 12.7m EUR for charitable activities 47% females in management Cases Plastic project Games and diversity Case Climate and environment From magazine to project in Egmont Publishing recycled newspaper paper Nordisk Film Games GoGift – FSC and – LCA of a game Nordic Swan Eco label Office initiatives in UK Publishing and Nordisk Film, Valby CSR Report / Communication on Progress / 2019 7 Egmont’s approach to corporate responsibility We bring stories to life Our company Our employees Our supply chains Compliance: e.g. Code of Conduct, Business Ethics Policy, Environmental Policy, Data Protection & IT Security Policies Values: Open-minded, passionate & ambitious Egmont Foundation: We wish to contribute to the society around us, as an employer, as storyteller and via our charitable activities As a foundation with a dual purpose, Egmont has Egmont’s Business Ethics Policy, which was launched worked with social responsibility for more than 100 during 2019, is the guideline for legal and ethical years. Egmont wishes to conduct its business and fulfil conduct. It applies to all Egmont employees. The the mission of bringing stories to life in an honest and Policy is not only a guide to appropriate decision responsible way, and all employees are expected to making, but also provides information about the act with integrity and treat each other with respect. options for seeking advice in the company, and for confidentially and securely expressing concerns Egmont’s work with corporate responsibility is based about possible misconduct, cf. page 14. on its foundation purpose, its values, and on a strong compliance culture. 8 CSR Report / Communication on Progress / 2019 In addition, Egmont’s Code of Conduct obligates Egmont Group has continued to identify how the suppliers and business partners that work for, different Egmont entities can make an impact with or on behalf of Egmont to observe minimum towards the achievement of the Sustainable compliance and ethics standards that correspond Development Goals (SDG). As part of the two-year to the UN Guiding Principles. Egmont developed project in DI (Confederation of Danish Industry) the responsible supply chain scheme “Egmont “From philanthropy to business” further goals have Social Compliance Programme” in 2005 to ensure been identified and are used as an exercise to assess, that suppliers and business partners comply with whether Egmont’s business plans and sustainability the Code of Conduct, cf. page 34. initiatives are aligned with the agenda towards a better world. Egmont will continue to work on how During 2019, Egmont has worked on identifying the business can use the SDGs to guide its strategic and prioritising initiatives and actions based on the priorities. strategic questions of how Egmont can create a positive impact on society, because of who we are, and what Egmont can do to minimise the negative impacts we generate because of what we do. This work will continue in 2020. Due to the company structure and diverse portfolio CSR Priorities 2020-2022 of products and services in the Egmont Group, the • Continued support to UN Global answers to the strategic questions and specific Compact and implementation of initiatives will be anchored locally in the companies under each division. However, the aim is to expand the UN Guiding Principles a corporate framework and a common approach to • Continued focus on Egmont’s social responsibility and sustainability. Social Compliance Programme Several projects were initiated during 2019. Egmont • Continued focus on environment Publishing and Nordisk Film have taken steps towards & climate targets and reporting minimising their negative footprints on the climate and environment, cf. pages 21-22. Many more • Expand scope of Egmont’s initiatives are in the pipeline across the divisions, Business Ethics Policy and they will be communicated when the actions implementation and training have been scoped and specific targets have been determined. • Expand Egmont’s group approach to corporate responsibility CSR Report / Communication on Progress / 2019 9 10 CSR Report / Communication on Progress / 2019 Our company This chapter includes actions and results from Egmont’s own operations and activities. CSR Report / Communication on Progress / 2019 11 Supervisory Boards The target for the underrepresented gender on the board applies to all Egmont’s Danish companies that are required under Danish law to set such target. In addition to Egmont Fonden and Egmont International Holding A/S (which have a board that consist of the same board members) the companies are, Egmont Publishing A/S, Egmont Printing Service A/S, Lindhardt and Ringhof Forlag A/S, Nordisk Film A/S, Nordisk Film Distribution A/S, Nordisk Film Biografer A/S, and GoGift.com A/S. Except for Egmont Fonden and Egmont International Holding A/S, all these companies have one female board member elected by the general meeting out of three or four board members on the Supervisory Board, which is considered equal representation under Danish law. According to the Charter of the Egmont Foundation, appointment to the Board of Trustees takes place when a member’s appointment period expires, and board members are appointed for a period of four years. The members of the Board of Trustees of the Egmont Fonden are appointed for up to three ordinary periods of four years and may be appointed for up to two further periods of two years. The Board of Trustees previously set a target to have at least one female board member appointed by the annual meeting no later than 2020. The target will be met at the annual meeting in March 2020 as Egmont has announced that one female will be appointed to the board. The Board of Trustees believes that its members should be chosen for their overall competencies but also recognises the benefits of a diverse Board in terms of experience, cultural, and educational background and gender. On that basis and in order to continue to strengthen gender diversity on the board, the Board of Trustees has set a new target: Target The underrepresented gender shall constitute at least 1/3 of the members of the supervisory boards (appointed by the annual meeting) no later than by the end of 2024. 12 CSR Report / Communication on Progress / 2019 Target Target Equal 2020 met 2024 representation Egmont Fonden / Egmont International Holding A/S 6 1 Egmont Printing Service A/S 3 1 Egmont Publishing A/S 2 1 Lindhardt and Ringhof Forlag A/S 2 1 Nordisk Film A/S 2 1 Nordisk Film Distribution A/S 2 1 Nordisk Film Biografer A/S 2 1 GoGift.com A/S 2 1 CSR Report / Communication on Progress / 2019 13 Business ethics, anti-corruption, and whistleblowing Egmont does not tolerate any use of corruption or Results bribery and since 2013, Egmont has had a clear policy on that. During the autumn of 2019, the launch of Egmont’s Business Ethics Policy was followed up At Egmont, employees, business partners, and third by e-learning training to all relevant employees in parties have the opportunity to use confidential and Egmont Corporate and in the divisions. The training secure channels to express concerns about possible presented the employees with dilemmas and cases, misconduct via Egmont’s whistleblowing system, which they may encounter in their daily business. which can be accessed online by employees via our Relevant employees are defined as all employees intranet and by external parties via Egmont.com. directly employed by Egmont with an Egmont e-mail address, including student and project workers, but excluding long-term absentees (due to sickness, Actions maternity leave or other leave of absence) and outsourced employees. During 2019, a new Business Ethics Policy was introduced in the Egmont Group. The Business Ethics The majority of Egmont employees were invited to Policy incorporates a number of legal compliance the training and just above 80% had completed the areas in Egmont such as anti-corruption, bribery, training by the end of 2019. The aim is to reach a conflicts of interest, gifts and entertainment, completion rate of 100% in 2020, and to be able to competition law, anti-fraud, marketing law, data better track the relevant categories of employees protection, piracy and illegal use of content, human in our systems to ensure that all key employees rights and environment. complete training, and that employees that are not relevant are disregarded. All employees who failed Encouragement to speak up and communication to complete the training in time, received reminders, about the whistleblowing system has been provided the second reminder with a copy to their manager. internally in Egmont at several occasions in The training will automatically be assigned to new, connection with the new Business Ethics Policy both relevant employees. in the Policy, in announcements on the intranet and in e-mails, on posters, and in the training. During 2019, Egmont has not detected any corruption or bribery issues in Egmont or in the Egmont also works with all its relevant business supply chains or had reports of any such issues, partners to ensure that they sign up to Egmont’s and no whistleblowing was made in Egmont’s Code of Conduct (or have their own code with whistleblowing system. equivalent standards), which clearly states that no use of corruption, bribery or facilitation payments is tolerated. Based on a risk assessment, Egmont carries out due diligence and social audits on certain suppliers and business partners in countries with perceived high risk of corruption, cf. Egmont’s Social Compliance Programme. 14 CSR Report / Communication on Progress / 2019 Goals for 2020 • Train 100% of all relevant employees in Egmont’s Business Ethics Policy • Enable better tracking and follow-up of relevant employees in Egmont’s learning management systems • Expand scope of Egmont’s Business Ethics Policy implementation and training to include additional/newly acquired companies in the Egmont Group • No corruption and/or bribery in Egmont or in the supply chains GDPR The EU General Data Protection Regulation (GDPR) Furthermore, Egmont has created a group wide has been in effect since 25 May 2018 across the Information Security Policy in order to ensure all EU. Egmont has implemented a group wide general information systems are resilient and configured framework for ongoing GDPR compliance. to a secure state based on international security standards and frameworks. The framework consists of policies, guidelines, and standard documents together with a comprehensive The adoption of the policy, which is an ongoing employee training programme. Furthermore, Egmont multi-year implementation process, covers endis implementing an improved documentation IT system user awareness and specialised policy training for where GDPR compliance must be documented. IT professionals across all divisions in Egmont. The purpose with this policy is to comply with The work to finalise implementation of the IT system the requirements for data protection set out and improving the various processes across the by the GDPR. Egmont Group continues in 2020. CSR Report / Communication on Progress / 2019 15 Environment and climate Egmont has an impact on the environment and In addition to the Environmental Policy, Egmont’s climate through its business activities. With the Business Ethics Policy provides guidance to support a introduction of Egmont’s Environmental Policy in precautionary approach to environmental challenges, 2016, Egmont committed to promoting greater to promote sustainable solutions, and to consider the environmental and climate responsibility. The policy impact on the environment when making business covers five main categories, which have been chosen decisions. based on their importance to Egmont and the impact Egmont’s businesses have on these areas. Actions The five areas in Egmont’s In 2019, Egmont collected data from 2018 to form a Environmental Policy: baseline for the Group’s climate and environmental impact (C&E assessment). Egmont is currently • Energy consumption assessing the most appropriate adjustment • Packaging framework in order to compare data year on year. • Waste handling As a result of the C&E assessment, the scope of Egmont’s data collection has widened. The climate • Chemicals accounting at group level now includes the • Paper sourcing headquarters and the four divisions across six of Egmont’s biggest markets, i.e. Denmark, Sweden, Norway, Germany, Poland and the United Kingdom. The policy outlines Egmont’s The categories included in the C&E assessment differ environmental goals to: somewhat from the categories in the Environmental Policy. The reason for this is that the policy primarily • Reduce energy consumption has an environmental focus, whereas the C&E assessment also takes climate impact into account • Reduce packaging and use and therefore transportation and plastic have been recyclable/recycled materials added to the scope. The production of plastic was • Minimise waste previously included in packaging, but due to the large CO2 emissions volume relative to Egmont’s total • Reduce the use of chemicals emissions it became an independent category. Egmont will report on the following categories going forward: • Reduce the use of paper at office facilities and source the majority of paper from sustainable • Energy consumption sources • Packaging • Plastic In 2020, Egmont will revisit the Environmental Policy • Transportation to assess the relevancy of the areas to decide if changes should be made. • Paper 16 CSR Report / Communication on Progress / 2019 The environmental and climate data for 2019 has been Results and ambitions collected using the same scope and methodology as the baseline data. The 2018 data baseline was In the following section Egmont’s direct and indirect concluded in Q4 2019 and consequently KPIs were CO2 emissions for 2019 will be presented for the five not defined in 2019 as intended. In 2020, Egmont categories: energy consumption, packaging, plastic, will set KPIs at group and divisional levels. Please see transportation and paper. page 43 for an overview of the dataset. For an overview of the CO2 emissions reported In 2019, Egmont, at both group and divisional level, according to the Greenhouse Gas Protocol’s scope initiated several projects focusing on mitigation of 1, 2 and 3 please see table on page 43. environmental and climate impact. At divisional level, the Publishing division initiated both a plastic project and an environmental and climate project aiming to reduce its negative impact. Please see page 21 for more information about the projects. Both projects will continue in 2020. At group level, Egmont has continued its efforts to implement Egmont’s Environmental Policy and support the divisions in their endeavours to become more sustainable, among other things by conducting analyses and research on relevant topics and by continuing to develop a tool box for the divisions to use. Egmont’s tCO2 emission by category 2019 Transportation 8,233 Paper 19,988 Plastic 7,666 Packaging Energy 648 consumption CSR Report / Communication on Progress / 2019 4,600 17 Energy consumption Energy consumption tCO2 The energy consumption category includes consumption in offices, warehouses, cinemas occupied by Egmont 4,600 in 2019. Electricity, heating and cooling are included in the category. 2019 Packaging Packaging tCO2 Packaging includes cardboard purchase from cinemas, cardboard for covermount packaging and the packaging for Books Games and Activity (BGA) 648 products (see page 43 for details). 2019 Plastic Plastic tCO2 The plastic category includes foil used as packaging for magazines, plastic used for food packaging in the 7,666 cinemas (sweets bags, gloves, straws, plastic cups), covermounts and blister packaging. Please consult the case on page 21 to see how Egmont Publishing works to reduce plastic. Nordisk Film Cinemas also uses plastic for bags for sweets, sanitary gloves for sweets, and straws. The cinemas 2019 are looking into replacing these items with other materials. 18 CSR Report / Communication on Progress / 2019 CSR Report / Communication on Progress / 2019 19 Transportation Transportation tCO2 The transportation category includes leased cars, 8,233 business travel (flights) and transportation and distribution of products. (see page 43 for details) 2019 Paper Paper tCO2 The paper category includes the purchase of paper 19,988 produced at third party paper mills which is used to print magazines and books by Egmont Publishing and Books. 2019 Goals for 2020 • Strengthen data collection and methodology, e.g. by implementing a system to manage the data and to convert into CO2 • Support the divisions in their work to further reduce negative impact • Create an adjustment framework to be able to compare data year on year • Set KPIs at group and divisional levels • Revisit the Environmental Policy to assess if changes should be made 20 CSR Report / Communication on Progress / 2019 Sustainable Case business practices Plastic project Environmental and climate project in Egmont Publishing In Q2 of 2019, the Publishing division initiated a plastic project across the division. The purpose of A side effect of the plastic project in the Publishing the project is to reduce the use of plastic and the division is the launch of an environmental and key focus is on the plastic foil wrapped around the climate project. The aim of the project is to create a magazines and the plastic toys bundled with the baseline analysis of the division’s negative climate magazines. impact, formulate an environmental/climate policy for the division, and provide recommendations for Egmont Publishing has set an ambitious target to improvements and local actions. reduce the use of plastic foils by 50% by the end of 2021 compared to current levels. The project will The project is set to begin in Q1, 2020. continue into 2020, as planned, and pilot projects will continue in 2020 to test plastic free toys. Nordisk Film Games – LCA of a game Nordisk Film Games is part of the Nordisk Film First step is to map the parts of the entire life of game division and makes equity investments in games production and consumption to understand where studios. Besides investing in great games, Nordisk efforts can be made to reduce negative impact: Film Games also focuses on the environment and climate agenda. • Impact during game development and production Nordisk Film Games has initiated Bornholm Game • Impact during game marketing Days, a two-day summit for Nordic game executives, • Impact during game distribution and in 2019 the participants chose “Climate Impact” • Impact during gameplay as the theme of the year. This has led to several • Impact of hardware end-of-life sustainability initiatives, one being the creation of a life-cycle analysis model for game companies. Once the project has been completed, Nordisk Film The initiative is carried out with an external partner Games will share the findings with the industry to and different Nordic game companies. increase awareness of negative environmental and climate impacts and to educate consumers on climate. CSR Report / Communication on Progress / 2019 21 Sustainable Case business practices Office initiatives in UK Publishing and Nordisk Film, Valby UK Publishing In 2019, several of the offices in the Egmont Group office space in central London which already has a have taken initiative to become more environmentally strong emphasis on being eco-friendly and reducing friendly. One example is the Publishing office in the packaging. John S. says “I would describe a perfect UK, where John S. has taken it upon himself to help in office as one that only uses eco-friendly products in any way that he can. This includes finding out how he all departments, makes all staff aware and part of can help colleagues with eco-friendly improvements its mission, makes strong connections with business that are easily implemented in everyday life, e.g. how partners that have similar stances on the environment to set up double-sided printing or share knowledge and tries to encourage partners that don’t. All in all, of great initiatives that are already taking place. The leading by good example; anything we can do to get British publishing team recently moved into a new closer to this is a step in the right direction.” Nordisk Film in Valby, Denmark At the Nordisk Film offices in Denmark, the facilities team has installed new waste sorting bins. The bins were installed in August 2019 and are part of the division’s goal to reduce their environmental impact. The employees at Nordisk Film have welcomed the new waste sorting bins, which have been designed in partnership with Peoples.dk. An added benefit of sorting the waste is a reduction in cleaning costs, and in addition it is cheaper to dispose of the waste when it has been sorted. 22 CSR Report / Communication on Progress / 2019 Charitable Activities Egmont Fonden’s charitable activities are based on A good school start social indignation and empathy. The foundation was founded in 1920 with the aim to alleviate the consequences for children and families living in In 2019, Egmont Fonden’s annual theme was poverty. Over time, poverty has changed. Egmont’s ‘a good school start’. As one of the initiators of experience with fighting poverty will be the focus Småbørnsløftet (the Pledge to Support Young point of Egmont Fonden’s 100th anniversary in 2020. Children), Egmont Fonden works to ensure that all young people have a good childhood, and that they Today, the aim is to safeguard young people against develop the necessary skills and competencies “modern poverty” – the lack of learning and life personal, social and academic for a good schooling. skills. Egmont Fonden focuses on the approximately Therefore, Egmont Fonden has chosen to focus 15% who are at risk of not completing an upper especially on ‘the good school start’, because school secondary education. Egmont Fonden contributes start is a crucial period in a child’s life. to ensuring that by 2030 all young people are able to complete an upper secondary education, and Each year, approximately 60,000 Danish children the foundation thereby also contributes to UN’s start school. The Egmont Report 2019 introduced Sustainable Development Goals number four on new data showing that the vast majority of children quality education. have a good school start. However, a minority of 11.6 % of the children do not thrive. Furthermore, the new Egmont Fonden strives to involve the child’s data shows that a poor school start is a long-term perspective in all grants. As a prelude to Egmont problem as well as a short-term problem for children Fonden’s 100th anniversary in 2020, the foundation because it reduces their well-being and ability to held a summit where young people at risk shared complete an upper secondary education. their experience of living in modern poverty with the foundation and key decision makers. Egmont Fonden earmarked a big sum of funds to focus on ways to improve school start. The Egmont Fonden uses a variety of philanthropic foundation will address three goals: 1) Children at instruments: The programme called: ‘A Helping Hand’ risk must be detected and supported before school which distributes aid directly to children and families start, 2) Children who do not thrive need adequate at risk, donations, partnerships, incubator grants, and prompt support, and 3) No child must be and catalytic activities. In 2019, Egmont Fonden excluded from children’s communities. has spent a total of DKK 95.6m on philanthropic activities which aim to support children and young One of the first grants in relation to ‘a good school people’s learning and life skills and to support film start’ has been given to the organisation Skolens talents through Nordisk Film Foundation. Since 1920, Venner. The grant of DKK 1.2m enables volunteers Egmont Fonden has donated DKK 3bn to charitable to help ensure the successful inclusion of children at activities. the time of school start. CSR Report / Communication on Progress / 2019 23 A helping hand Other big bets Egmont Fonden provides individual support through Egmont Fonden has made a call on initiatives partnerships with organisations in Denmark and addressing the consequences of dyslexia. The Norway that are directly in contact with children foundation has received a number of applications and young people at risk. In 2019, Egmont Fonden and has decided to give 12 grants amounting to distributed a total amount of DKK 10.7m via DKK 14 million. A total of DKK 25.4 million has been A Helping Hand. donated in order to implement its strategy on dyslexia. The learning and life skills of children placed in care The pledge to support has been at the top of Egmont Fonden’s agenda in young children 2019. The first class of learning kids from Learn for Life, a learning programme for children placed in care As a contribution to the Pledge to Support Young which was initiated by the foundation, graduated and Children, Egmont Fonden created a 5-year the children have communicated the benefits of the partnership with Mødrehjælpen with a total programme and the needs of children placed in care investment of EUR 3.3 million. In partnership with very broadly. Egmont Fonden, Mødrehjælpen will contribute to ensuring that the first 1,000 days in all children’s lives are characterised by safety and stimulation. The Norway core of the programme called 1,000 Days is a digital platform aimed at all future parents and families. Egmont Fonden also wishes to take social responsibility in Norway where Egmont has many commercial In addition, the foundation supported the regional activities. The development and challenges of municipality of Bornholm’s four-year development Norwegian children and young people are similar to programme called De små børns Bornholm. The those of children and young people in Denmark, and purpose is to give all of Bornholm’s young children consequently Egmont Fonden’s strategy is the same equal opportunities to prosper, learn, and develop. in Norway as in Denmark. In 2019, the foundation The parties invest a total of EUR 3.3 million in the distributed a total of DKK 5.2 million to Norwegian programme, which can hopefully become a model Women’s Public Health Association, The Crown Prince for other municipalities. Haakon and Crown Princess Mette-Marit’s Foundation, and the organisation !LES. In 2019, 174 organisations have signed the pledge. Nordisk Film Fonden A new partnership on absenteeism Nordisk Film Fonden donated EUR 0.7 million in 2019 supporting and empowering film talents to a new future Egmont Fonden entered into a new partnership with demanding new ways of thinking and use of new Børns Vilkår from 2019-2023. The partnership’s vision technologies. 60 talents received Nordisk Film Fonden’s is to significantly reduce the proportion of students scholarships Lille Isbjørn and Store Isbjørn to grow their with high school absenteeism in Denmark and to talent abroad. Four initiatives received Isbjørn project improve the learning and life conditions of children donations: A new two-year part-time script programme in school. The reason for this initiative is the fact for children & youth fiction, a PhD in “the Immersive that many Danish pupils have a very high degree Physical Film”, a new knowledge-sharing network for of absenteeism. A total of 15% of the students screenwriters in the Nordics, and Picture This_19, aiming (approximately 102,000 children and young people to inspire filmmakers to embrace new technology to in the Danish elementary school) have more than increase artistic creativity. The Nordisk Film Award in 10% absence. In addition, there is an increase in the Denmark went to director Feras Fayyad and in Norway number of children who do not go to school for very to production designer Jørgen Strangebye-Larsen. The long periods of time. Balling Award went to VFX supervisor Peter Hjorth and the Ove Sprogøe Award to actor Esben Smed. 24 CSR Report / Communication on Progress / 2019 CSR Report / Communication on Progress / 2019 25 26 CSR Report / Communication on Progress / 2019 Our employees This chapter includes people information on development, engagement and diversity. CSR Report / Communication on Progress / 2019 27 Egmont’s workforce Egmont cares about the well-being of its people – In addition to the leadership development, Egmont short and long-term. Egmont believes that a good expects its leaders to focus and act on the engagement life at work for its employees is realised through a of people in their teams, which is why Egmont conducts combination of a meaningful job, a great purpose, engagement surveys twice a year. Engagement is great cooperation with colleagues, and opportunities essential for short-term business performance and to develop professionally. People are the most customer satisfaction as well as for the longer-term important asset in Egmont, and it is one of Egmont’s sustainability of the company. Egmont’s engagement strategic priorities to be people driven. In an industry remains at a high level, both in terms of participation where the speed of change in technology and rate in surveys (82%) and the overall engagement consumer behaviour is a precondition, Egmont needs level (8.0 on a 10-point scale) according to the to have the right competencies to stay relevant, latest survey in November 2019. This constitutes a and a culture where development and innovation is 0.4-point increase compared to the engagement level paramount. Thus, Egmont wants to strengthen the in November 2018. learning culture across divisions, to eliminate the risk of a workforce gradually losing its ability to stay An important element in the development of the relevant in respect to external demands. This is done individual employee is the possibility of receiving through a mix of professional skills development, feedback. Egmont’s internal surveys as well as acquisition of new competencies, and new ways of external research has proven feedback to be working. one of the most important elements of personal development. In Egmont, feedback is therefore included as an element in all leadership training, just Leadership development like in autumn 2019/spring 2020 Egmont has offered and employee engagement one-day training sessions during which teams (leader and employees) together receive input and training Egmont’s leaders are vital to the well-being and on how to give, receive, and ask for feedback. development of its people, and it is crucial for Egmont’s continued success that its leaders To help Egmont employees handle the many understand how to guide their employees through changes and demands they face, both at work and the rapid changes in business models. Therefore, in their private lives, Egmont offered the employees Egmont continues to invest in leadership training, a course under the title ‘Resilience’. In 2019, 462 which aims at unfolding Egmont’s strategy in a set of Egmont employees chose to accept this offer, which key leadership principles. guided them on how to handle their busy everyday lives, thereby achieving greater mental and physical By the end of 2019, approx. 236 leaders have resources. completed the “Committed to Lead” programme. This corresponds to approx. 45% of the total leadership population, and the rate of completion increases with the pipeline of other leaders lined up for the programme in 2020. In 2019, Egmont introduced a training programme for informal leaders, i.e. functional specialists who are expected to impact a wide population of employees, although they do not have formal responsibility for direct reports. 28 CSR Report / Communication on Progress / 2019 Gender balance Policy • Egmont does not discriminate based Egmont’s total workforce consists of 52% females on gender, age, handicap, ethnic or and 48% males and is thereby aligned with the religious background standards for equal balance between genders. • Egmont wishes to always employ the best The same goes for the total management pool across qualified person, irrespective of gender the divisions with a gender split of 46% females and 54% males. The table below shows variations across • Egmont aims to have a diverse set of management layers in the divisions, which is believed competencies. Diversity is not a matter to be fairly reflective of the talent pool available. of gender only but can also include educational background, functional Egmont aims at being an attractive workplace, where experience, cognitive perception, age, the competencies of our employees can be used cultural background, etc. the best way possible irrespective of gender and where everyone finds that they have equal and fair • When recruiting or promoting people opportunities for promotions. Egmont aims to identify both male and female candidates Count % Count % Total* Egmont total 1,775 52% 1,821 48% 3,596 Management 307 47% 353 53% 660 Other employees 1,468 50% 1,468 50% 2,936 Books 153 67% 74 33% 227 Management 19 53% 17 47% 36 Other employees 134 70% 57 30% 191 Egmont Publishing 917 62% 565 38% 1,482 Management 162 56% 129 44% 291 Other employees 755 63% 436 37% 1,191 Holding 56 44% 70 56% 126 Management 12 50% 12 50% 24 Other employees 44 43% 58 57% 102 Nordisk Film 340 37% 576 63% 916 Management 73 33% 145 66% 219 Other employees 266 38% 431 62% 697 TV 2 309 37% 536 63% 845 Management 40 44% 50 55% 90 Other employees 269 36% 486 64% 755 *Based on number of employees in people survey as of November 2019. Excluding employees paid by the hour and employees in minority owned e-commerce businesses. CSR Report / Communication on Progress / 2019 29 Games and diversity Case Nordisk Film Games actively supports greater diversity in the game industry by hosting Diversity in Games events, supporting game jams for women in games, they seek to have several genders as speakers at their events and diversity is a parameter in their due diligence processes. 30 CSR Report / Communication on Progress / 2019 CSR Report / Communication on Progress / 2019 31 32 CSR Report / Communication on Progress / 2019 Our supply chains This chapter includes Egmont’s commercial activities, where the company cannot impact the results directly, but only via third parties such as suppliers and business partners. CSR Report / Communication on Progress / 2019 33 Social Compliance Programme It is essential for Egmont that all its companies Egmont’s Social Compliance respect human rights and provide decent working conditions as well as a safe working environment Programme includes: for the employees. These requirements also apply to Egmont’s suppliers and business partners. • Risk-based assessment and The Egmont Social Compliance Programme was implemented in 2005 to ensure a healthy and mapping of suppliers compliant pool of suppliers. The programme is aligned with the UN Guiding Principles and • Social audits at suppliers against is primarily targeted at suppliers of magazines, Egmont’s Code of Conduct or books, games, activity products, covermounts, and promotional items. Throughout 2019, Egmont review of third-party audit continuously worked on the Egmont Social reports covering human rights, Compliance Programme and saw improvements labour rights, environment, and compared to 2018. anti-corruption/bribery Stable supplier pool • Remediation plans and following-up Egmont has built solid relationships with the existing suppliers and concentrated resources on helping the suppliers develop their level of compliance. On 31 December 2019, Egmont had 448 active At a minimum, Egmont requires suppliers in its supplier pool, which was a reduction that its suppliers have: in comparison to 2018. Only 49 new suppliers were introduced to the supplier pool in 2019, which is 40% less compared to 2018. • No violations of local minimum wage regulations (equivalent to pay per standard work hour) • No forced, bonded or compulsory labour • No child labour • No risk of losing life and/or limb • No corruption and/or bribery 34 CSR Report / Communication on Progress / 2019 Updated country Active suppliers by country risk group risk assessment 55.6% In 2019, Egmont updated its country risk assessment with effect from October 2019. Of the active suppliers, 249 (55.6%) were in group 1, 2 (0.4%) were in Group 2 44.0% and 197 (44.0%) were in Group 3. 40.0% 40.0% In 2019, the number of suppliers in Group 2 has significantly reduced due to the updated country risk assessment (see overview on the right), which resulted in a transfer of 95 suppliers from Group 2 20.0% to Group 3. 0.4% 2018 2019 2018 2019 2018 2019 Risk group 1 Risk group 2 Risk group 3 Egmont’s country risk assessment In order to manage the complex supply chains most efficiently, Egmont operates with three country risk profiles Group 1 Group 2 Group 3 High risk countries Medium risk countries Low risk countries Maximum audit Audit cycle ranging from Audits performed cycle of 12 months 12 to 24 months on an ad hoc basis. Self-assessment questionnaires The country risk parameters are based on several required yearly from acknowledged tools and analyses and take relevant the suppliers that licensors’ requirements into account. Egmont have been moved from continuously strives to keep updated on the changing Group 2 to Group 3. political, economic, and social landscapes in the regions, where Egmont and its business partners operate, and adjusts the relevant country risk profiles accordingly. CSR Report / Communication on Progress / 2019 35 Healthier supply chains The Compensation category covers insufficient payment of social insurance, insufficient paid leave, In 2019, Egmont’s Social Compliance team evaluated and other legally required benefits. The findings in this 198 social audits. A total of 997 issues of noncategory are mostly related to insufficient payment compliance with Egmont’s Code of Conduct were of social insurance, which means that the workers detected with an average of 5 findings per audit, run the risk of not participating in the national social which was lower than the average of 5.4 in 2018. insurance scheme. The violation is most commonly The figure below shows the distribution of findings seen among Chinese suppliers due to difficulties for detected from audits in 2019. In general, the category employees to transfer their social insurance savings Health and Safety remains the area with the highest from one province to another. In 2019, a new social number of Code of Conduct violations. The most insurance shceme was implemented in China which common findings in this category are related to: will hopefully raise the payments to social insurance Health check, inappropriate use of applicable in the future. On a positive note, Egmont found that personal protective equipment (PPE) and secondary most of the suppliers purchased work-related injury containment (anti-leakage equipment) for chemicals insurance for their employees. used in production processes. PPE and Health check were also most common findings in 2018, whereas The Egmont Social Compliance team continues secondary containment is new on the top three list. to work actively with the suppliers to increase the compliance level over time. The second largest category is still Hours of work, which covers the total working hours, overtime One zero tolerance issue in 2019 hours, seventh day rest, and insufficient rest Egmont found one instance of migrant workers who between shifts. The most common finding is related paid recruitment fees to obtain a job at a supplier in to excessive working hours with overtime hours Egmont’s supplier pool. Paying recruitment fees is a exceeding the national limit. This was also the case violation of Egmont’s Code of Conduct and Egmont in 2018. However, during 2019 the seventh day rest acted accordingly to solve the situation, which resulted requirement has improved. in a discontinuation of the recruitment fees paid by migrant workers. Findings from Social Audits in 2019 3.2% 1.5% Documentation Freedom of employment 7.6% Protection of the environment 12.2% Compensation 58.9% Health and safety 14.6% Hours of work 2% 36 Other CSR Report / Communication on Progress / 2019 Activities in 2019 Supplier day Egmont invited all its covermount suppliers in China to a supplier day in Shenzhen in May 2019. Egmont employees from Sourcing, Legal & Social Compliance, and Product Quality and Safety participated in the meeting. The suppliers were updated on the requirements from Egmont and its licensors and were introduced to new internal guidelines and processes. During the meeting, the participants were invited to visit the testing laboratory of Egmont’s external quality assurance partner (SGS) to learn about the quality and safety control testing and methods. Throughout the meeting, Egmont and its suppliers had useful discussions and reflections on compliance requirements and processes. Inspiration letter Production verification Egmont’s inspiration letters continue to be a useful In order to ensure compliance with Egmont’s Code of tool of communication to the suppliers. During 2019, Conduct and prevent unauthorised subcontracting, Egmont issued a new inspiration letter related to best Egmont Social Compliance performed (via practices on fire safety issues to relevant suppliers, independent auditor firms) unannounced inspections which was read by 74% of the recipients. In 2020, on randomly sampled orders. In 2019, two the aim is to issue two new inspiration letters about production verification inspections were conducted relevant topics of interest to relevant suppliers with at two selected suppliers and no violations of the aim of sharing knowledge and best practices and unauthorised subcontractors were detected. encourage compliance. Egmont will continue with unannounced production verification inspections as part of our ongoing supplier compliance focus. Goals for 2020 • Continue to work with the supplier pool to remediate Code of Conduct violations and to work towards a declining incident curve • Work on further implementation of Egmont’s Code of Conduct across the divisions • Issue two new inspiration letters on relevant compliance topics CSR Report / Communication on Progress / 2019 37 UK modern slavery statement This statement outlines the measures taken by In addition, Egmont regularly conducts an employee Egmont to prevent forms of modern slavery and survey addressing, inter alia, working conditions and human trafficking for the 2019 fiscal year. In doing employee satisfaction. If survey results indicate a so, Egmont is fulfilling its duties pursuant to Section need for improvement, appropriate measures are 54 (1) of the UK Modern Slavery Act 2015. implemented. The most recent employee survey took place in November 2019. Egmont Supply chain compliance Egmont is a commercial foundation with a dual purpose: to develop tomorrow’s media and to Business partners and suppliers (and their support vulnerable children and young people to subcontractors) are required to comply with an education and a better life. The strategy “Grow Egmont’s Code of Conduct. The Egmont Code of with the Modern Consumer” entails investments Conduct together with the Egmont Social Compliance in digital growth and new tech-based businesses Programme operationalises Egmont’s efforts against while applying technology to strong storytelling. The modern slavery in third party supply chains. The annual profit is invested in business development Egmont Social Compliance Programme requires and in the charitable activities to support vulnerable social audits at first-tier/core suppliers based on a children and young people as well as donations for risk assessment of the country and sector they are in. film talents through Nordisk Film Fonden. Egmont operates with three country risk groups: Any and all forms of modern slavery, forced and • Country Group 1: child labour, exploitation and discrimination are Suppliers are audited every 12 months prohibited at Egmont. Egmont is committed to the principles of the United Nations Global Compact • Country Group 2: (UNGC), the United Nations Guiding Principles on Suppliers are audited every 12-24 months Business and Human Rights, and the Core Labour Standards of the International Labour Organization • Country Group 3: (ILO). Ensuring fair working conditions is an integral Suppliers are audited ad hoc part of Egmont’s corporate culture, and Egmont operates a number of policies to ensure that its If Egmont experiences or is made aware of an instance companies conduct business in a transparent and of modern slavery, this will be dealt with by the ethical manner and in compliance with relevant Corporate Legal and Compliance team. legislation, including Egmont’s Business Ethics Policy, the Corporate Recruitment Policy, and the The statement was approved by Egmont’s board of Whistleblowing Policy. All relevant Egmont employees directors and will be reviewed annually. are well-informed about the rules of conduct and their rights through group-wide communication and training measures concerning Egmont’s Business Ethics Policy. In 2019, a new online training in business ethics was implemented across the Egmont divisions. Furthermore, Egmont has established comprehensive communication and speak-up channels that allow for the reporting of compliance violations, e.g. human rights violations. 38 CSR Report / Communication on Progress / 2019 Product safety and quality Egmont continues to focus on ensuring that products Results are safe for the consumers and comply with all relevant legislation and standards. The adjustments in the product safety organisation have not deteriorated the quality and safety of Egmont’s products. Actions No serious incidents related to Egmont products The processes for sourcing covermounts was reviewed, were reported in 2019. Egmont was only contacted which resulted in a reduction of the number of by a few consumers. In most cases, they requested Egmont’s direct and indirect suppliers. Additionally, product information such as content of certain more efficient processes were introduced, leading to chemicals in a product. the closure of Egmont’s Hong Kong office, and the sourcing responsibility was relocated to Egmont’s There were no recalls of Egmont products in 2019 European-based buyer organisation. and no products were notified in the European Safety Gate (RAPEX) system. Egmont was approached by the In continuation of this, a new product safety and authorities in two cases: quality setup was established, based on: • The authorities in Luxemburg requested 1. General outsourcing of product safety and quality information on chemical substances under the activities to a well-recognised, international REACH regulation. The case was closed by business partner (SGS), and providing the requested information. 2. Establishment of a European based quality function. • The Austrian authorities had tested a product and SGS was selected to manage the general product found that the unintended sound level was safety and quality activities for all covermounts, too high. The case was transferred to the German including safety assessments, testing, inspections, authorities with whom we are currently and development of technical documentation. in dialogue on the requirements as well as remediations for similar products. The European based quality function, located in Berlin, forms part of Egmont’s global sourcing organisation. Egmont has reviewed and updated the recall A new quality manager was recruited to oversee and processes by establishing clear and simple develop all quality assurance and control activities. procedures supported with contact details for key The product safety and quality activities related to personnel. The product recall procedures are linked children’s books remained unchanged with overall to the general Egmont crisis communication plan. coordination and management from the Egmont office in London. Goals for 2020 • The overall goal is to provide safe products to our consumers. This means that Egmont aims to have no serious incidents and no product recalls and at providing consumers and partners with the safety information they need • Continued attention to the new safety and quality organisation in order to ensure that all necessary processes are in place and work effectively and efficiently. CSR Report / Communication on Progress / 2019 39 From magazine to Case recycled newspaper paper Leftover Danish magazines are sold to the company As part of the process, ink is removed from the DanFiber, which transports the magazines to a mill printed surfaces in the so-called “De-inker”. By adding in Sweden for recycling. The mill will mix the raw air and soap in a large kettle, the ink slowly detaches material with other recycled paper grades in the from the fibres. The ink sludge is used for energy production of new graphical paper, i.e. newspaper production at the mill. and magazine paper. The raw material (wooden fibre) is dissolved in water and the water/fibre Ultimately, 85% of the raw material is turned into solution runs through a number of cleaning stations newspaper paper or weekly magazine paper. As a in order to remove waste and impurities, ending up bonus of the recycling process, the tree’s absorbed with fibres which are suitable for recycling. CO2 is not emitted to the atmosphere. Transport of raw material to the mill emits approx. 5.2 kg CO2/ton of The cleaning process separates waste, unwanted raw material and the production process approx. materials and worn out fibres from the raw material 300 kg CO2/ton of raw material. Incineration of magazine and the reject is used for energy production in the paper would result in approx. 1,500 kg CO2/ton. An mill (electricity and steam).1 overall reduction in CO2 of approx. 1,200 kg/ton raw material or 80% compared to using virgin fibres. 1 Worn out fibre = short fibre. A paper fibre can on average be recycled seven times. 40 CSR Report / Communication on Progress / 2019 GoGift – FSC and Case Nordic Swan Eco label Sustainability All our paper and packaging is FSC & Nordic Swan ecolabelled FSC looks after our forests & people around the world! The Swan ecolabel is one of the worlds FSC is the only global labelling scheme concerning wood, leading environmental certifications who has the backing of green organisations like WWF, Greenpeace and World Forest. On going certification and control. High environmental Within a FSC forest, requirements within no more wood is cut all relevant phases of down than the forest the paper’s life cycle. can reproduce. The chemicals used are not harmful to the environment or people. FSC is a safety to nature and wildlife. The people employed are supplied with certified training, safety equipment and receive a proper pay. Today more than 65% of the gift cards sold through GoGift are digital, minimizing print production. CSR Report / Communication on Progress / 2019 41 General accounting principles The Greenhouse Gas Protocol Initiative (GHG protocol) is a multi-stakeholder partnership of businesses, nongovernmental organisations (NGOs), governments, and others convened by the World Resources Institute (WRI) and World Business Council for Sustainable Development (WBCSD) which has developed four internationally accepted greenhouse gas (GHG) accounting and reporting standards for businesses. The CO2 emission reporting in the Egmont CSR report is based on one of the four international standards: ‘A Corporate Accounting and Reporting Standard Revised edition’. This is the most important standard for measuring greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions and was the basis for the ISO standard 14064-I. The reporting considers the following GHGs, all converted into CO2, CH4 (methane), N20 (laughing gas) SF6, HFCs and PFCs. Due to the nature of the media industry, Egmont only reports on CO2 emissions as this is the most prevalent GHG impact. The emission analysis in this CSR report is based on the operational control principle which defines what should be included in the overall carbon inventory of Egmont’s operations, as well as in the different scopes. Control can be defined in either financial or operational terms. Under the operational control approach, a company accounts for the GHG emissions from controlled operations. It does not account for GHG emissions from operations in which it owns an interest but has no control. Egmont’s scopes for reporting The overall carbon inventory is divided into three main scopes of direct and indirect emissions created as a result of Egmont’s operations. Scope 1 are direct emissions resulting from activities where Egmont has operational control. Scope 2 are indirect emissions related to purchase of energy. It is mandatory to report emissions relating to scope 1 and 2, whereas reporting of scope 3 indirect emissions from purchased products or services is voluntary according to the GHG reporting standard. In the emission reporting for the CSR report all three scopes have been included in the analysis to ensure that the emission reporting reflects the accurate impact of Egmont’s operations. In the diagram the overall inventory boundary based on the operational approach and an overview of the data which has been included in the different scopes is documented. The CO2 emissions have been calculated utilising the external CEMAsys platform. Consequently, the reported emission impact of the Egmont’s operations is dependent on the chosen conversion rates utilised by the CEMAsys system. Description of different scopes • Scope 1: includes all direct emission sources such as use of fossil fuels for owned, leased or rented assets including cars. • Scope 2: includes indirect emissions related to purchased energy; electricity, heating and cooling. The electricity emissions factors used in the CEMAsys system are based on national gross electricity production mixes on a 3-year rolling average. The Nordic electricity mix covers the weighted production in Sweden, Norway, Finland and Denmark, which reflects the common Nord Pool market area. Emission factors per fuel type are based on assumption in the International Energy Agency (IEA) methodological framework. Factors for district heating and cooling are either based on actual (local) production mixes, or average IEA statistic. • Scope 3: includes indirect emissions from business travel, materials and goods transportation in Egmont’s value chain. The scope 3 emissions are a result of the different activities, which are not controlled by Egmont, i.e. they are indirect. The CEMAsys platform has provided accurate conversion factors for the raw materials reported in the system. *Some of Egmont Publishing’s transportation data for 2019 have been substituted with 2018 data as the data could not be supplied by the CSR report deadline. 42 CSR Report / Communication on Progress / 2019 References Department for Business, Energy & Industrial Strategy (2019). Government emission conversion factors for greenhouse gas company reporting (DEFRA) IEA (2019). CO2 emission from fuel combustion, International Energy Agency (IEA), Paris. IEA (2019). Electricity information, International Energy Agency (IEA), Paris. IMO (2014). Reduction of GHG emissions from ships Third IMO GHG Study 2014 (Final report). International Maritime Organisation, http://www.iadc.org/ wp-content/uploads/2014/02/MEPC-67-6-INF3-2014-Final-Report-complete.pdf IPCC (2014). IPCC fifth assessment report: Climate change 2013 (AR5 updated version November 2014). http://www.ipcc.ch/report/ar5/ AIB,RE-DISS (2019). Reliable disclosure systems for Europe – Phase 2: European residual mixes. WBCSD/WRI (2004). The greenhouse gas protocol. A corporate accounting and reporting standard (revised edition). World Business Council on Sustainable Development (WBCSD), Geneva, Switzerland /World Resource Institute (WRI), Washington DC, USA, 116 pp. WBCSD/WRI (2011). Corporate value chain (Scope 3) accounting and reporting standard: Supplement to the GHG Protocol corporate accounting and reporting standard. World Business Council on Sustainable Development (WBCSD), Geneva, Switzerland /World Resource Institute (WRI), Washington DC, USA, 149 pp. WBCSD/WRI (2015). GHG protocol Scope 2 guidance: An amendment to the GHG protocol corporate standard. World Business Council on Sustainable Development (WBCSD), Geneva, Switzerland /World Resource Institute (WRI), Washington DC, USA, 117 pp. Data overview Egmont Group Divisions Egmont Publishing Nordisk Film TV2 Books Holding Countries UK, Germany, Denmark, Norway Denmark Denmark Denmark, Sweden, Sweden and Norway and Poland Norway Category Energy X* X X X* X consumption (offices) (offices and (offices and (offices and cinemas) studios in leased cars Bergen and in DK) Oslo) Packaging X (BGA and (cinemas) covermounts) Plastic X X (magazines, BGA and (cinemas) covermounts) Transportation X X X* Flights (magazines, BGA (cinemas DK Product transportation and covermounts) and Interactive) and distribution Paper X X (magazines, and (books) covermounts) Delimitations * Not including Games, film Vimond and *Included Flights and Germany due to production and TV2 Sumo are under accommodation 1 year delayed distribution and not included Holding. cover the account digital gift card entitites settlements. solution are not Digital is not included in included included the corporate E-commerce and agreement with marketing services travel agent are not included CSR Report / Communication on Progress / 2019 43 44 CSR Report / Communication on Progress / 2019 CSR Report / Communication on Progress / 2019 45 Carbon accounting report 2019 The aim of this report is to get an overview of the organisation’s greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions, which is an integrated part of the company’s climate strategy. The carbon accounting is a fundamental tool in order to identify concrete measures to reduce the energy consumption and corresponding GHG emissions. The annual report enables the organisation to benchmark performance indicators and evaluate progress over time. This report comprises the following units: The input data is based on information from both internal and external data sources and then converted into tonnes CO2-eq. The analysis is based on the international standard; A Corporate Accounting and Reporting Standard, developed by the Greenhouse Gas Protocol Initiative (GHG protocol). This is the most important standard for measuring greenhouse gas emissions and was the basis for the ISO standard 14064-I. CARBON ACCOUNTING REPORT Energyand Energy and GHGGHG emissions emissions Category Description Consumption Unit Energy Emissions Emissions (MWh eqv) (tCO2e) (distribution) Transportation 1 020.6 240.3 0.6% Diesel (B7) Leased c ars, S E 31 372.0 liters 331.3 78.5 0.2% Diesel (B7) Leased c ompany c ars DK 47 807.6 liters 504.8 119.6 0.3% Petrol (B7) Leased c ars, S E 5 820.3 liters 54.7 12.5 Petrol (B7) Leased c ompany c ars DK 13 824.0 liters 129.8 29.8 0.1% S tationary c ombustion 542.2 133.7 0.3% Burning oil 52 638.0 liters 542.2 133.7 0.3% Scope 1 total 1 562.8 374.1 0.9% Elec tric ity 28 939.2 3 257.2 7.9% Elec tric ity Denmark 125 12 333 918.0 kWh 12 333.9 2 491.5 6.1% Elec tric ity S weden 1 137 273.0 kWh 1 137.3 13.6 Elec tric ity Norway 14 343 238.2 kWh 14 343.2 114.7 0.3% Elec tric ity United Kingdom 402 025.0 kWh 402.0 117.0 0.3% Elec tric ity Poland 722 757.0 kWh 722.8 520.4 1.3% DH Nordic loc ations 13 180.8 1 210.0 2.9% Distric t heating S E/S toc kholm 102 312.0 kWh 102.3 7.9 Distric t heating NO/Oslo 799 670.0 kWh 799.7 12.0 Distric t heating Denmark mix 8 050 000.0 kWh 8 050.0 912.9 2.2% Distric t c ooling S E/S toc kholm 40 343.0 kWh 40.3 Distric t heating NO/Bergen kWh Distric t heating DK/Københavns Kommune 2 849 423.0 kWh 2 849.4 228.0 0.6% Distric t heating S E/Malmo 92 523.0 kWh 92.5 13.2 Distric t heating NO/Nydalen 736 730.0 kWh 736.7 26.6 0.1% Distric t c ooling NO/Nydalen 509 780.0 kWh 509.8 9.5 Distric t heating general 48.5 Distric t c ooling Renewable 48 531.0 kWh 48.5 Scope 2 total 42 168.5 4 467.2 10.9% Air travel 3 079.4 7.5% Continental/Nordic 3 079.4 tCO2 3 079.4 7.5% Goods transportation 4 913.6 11.9% Truc k 7.5-17t 4 586 923.0 km 2 756.7 6.7% Truc k 7.5-17t 1 416.7 tCO2 1 416.7 3.4% S ea Container Avg load 717.3 tCO2 717.3 1.7% Air Interc ontinental freight 22.9 tCO2 22.9 0.1% BGA S E 327.9 0.8% Cardboard 238 830.4 kg 201.2 0.5% Plastic (HDPE) 85.0 kg 0.2 Plastic (LDPE) 628.9 kg 1.3 Plastic (PET) 5 785.1 kg 23.4 0.1% Plastic (PVC) 1 748.1 kg 6.0 Plastic (PP) 17 374.3 kg 53.4 0.1% Plastic (PS ) 6 792.2 kg 25.7 0.1% Plastic (PC) 107.3 kg 0.8 Ethylene vinyl ac teate 9.0 kg Polyurethane, rigid foam 119.1 kg 0.5 Plastic , virgin 96.8 kg 0.3 Plastic , virgin 10 992.5 kgCO2 11.0 Plastic (PE) 2 708.0 kg 4.1 Covermounts 6 246.2 15.2% Plastic (PVC) 146 604.0 kg 500.4 1.2% Plastic (PP) 413 497.0 kg 1 270.4 3.1% Plastic (PS ) 1 012 265.0 kg 3 824.3 9.3% Plastic , virgin 13 961.0 kg 43.5 0.1% Plastic , virgin 607 600.0 kgCO2 607.6 1.5% Foil 292.7 0.7% 2 46 CSR Report / Communication on Progress / 2019 CARBON ACCOUNTING REPORT Plastic (PP) 78 155.0 kg 240.1 0.6% Plastic (PE) 35 048.0 kg 52.6 0.1% Pac kaging c inemas 196.9 0.5% Paper,offic e (Ec o-label) 90.0 kg Cardboard 164 628.6 kg 138.7 0.3% Plastic (LDPE) 6 098.0 kg 13.0 Plastic (PET) 8 211.5 kg 33.3 0.1% Plastic (PVC) 129.2 kg 0.4 Plastic (PP) 2 244.7 kg 6.9 Plastic (PS ) 1 035.0 kg 3.9 Expanded Polystyrene (EPS ) 133.6 kg 0.4 Fabric Polypropylene (PP) 8.0 kg 0.1 Plastic (PE) 150.0 kg 0.2 Pac kaging c overmounts 1 250.8 3.0% Cardboard 366 000.0 kg 308.4 0.7% Plastic (PVC) 250 000.0 kg 853.3 2.1% Plastic (PP) 29 000.0 kg 89.1 0.2% Paper Books 789.8 1.9% Paper 789.8 tCO2 789.8 1.9% Paper Publishing 19 198.8 46.7% Paper Books 2 441.2 tCO2 2 441.2 5.9% Paper Magaz ines 16 757.6 tCO2 16 757.6 40.7% Scope 3 total 36 296.1 88.2% Total 43 731.3 41 137.4 100.0% Electricity market-based Scope 2 market-based Total market-based 3 CSR Report / Communication on Progress / 2019 47 N SWA ECO C Questions or comments related to this report, NOR LA DI BEL please contact Egmont Social Compliance at CSR@egmont.com 48 CSR Report / Communication on Progress Photos: / 2019 Klaus Rudbæk Phillip Ørneborg, Printed matter 5041-0492
