SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2020 Sustainability at ORIX Since our founding, contributing to society by creating new value through our business activities has been fundamental to ORIX. We believe that it is important for a company to make a profit, but making a profit is not everything. Providing new value to society and being a company that is needed by society are also important, and the profit that results makes ORIX’s sustainable growth possible. In addition, operating with an awareness of sustainability has become fundamental to the survival of companies amid constantly shifting economic, social and environmental conditions. These shifting conditions include dramatic changes in the natural environment due to climate change along with their related economic impacts as well as changes in society’s expectations regarding the relationship between companies and society. Based on this thinking, ORIX strives to accurately assess and identify the opportunities and risks arising from economic, social and environmental changes in order to work with our stakeholders and International Commitments community to contribute to the economic development and sustainable growth of the larger global ORIX endorses the following international commitments, community, and to incorporate those opportunities and risks into our corporate management. initiatives, and frameworks: • The United Nations Global Compact • Universal Declaration of Human Rights Corporate Philosophy • The International Labour Organization’s Declaration on ORIX is constantly anticipating market needs and working to contribute to society by developing Fundamental Principles and Rights at Work leading financial services on a global scale and striving to offer innovative products that create new • The Rio Declaration on Environment and Development value for customers. • The United Nations Convention against Corruption • Task Force on Climate-related Financial Disclosures (TCFD) Management Policy 1. ORIX strives to meet the diverse needs of its customers and to deepen trust by constantly providing superior services. Participation in the United Nations Global Compact 2. ORIX aims to strengthen its base of operations and achieve sustained growth by integrating its resources to promote synergies amongst different units. ORIX became a participant in the 3. ORIX makes efforts to develop a corporate culture that shares a sense of fulfillment and pride by developing United Nations Global Compact in July 2014. We support the ten personnel resources through corporate programs and promoting professional development. principles in the four fields of human 4. ORIX aims to attain stable mediumand long-term growth in shareholder value by implementing these initiatives. rights, labour, environment and anticorruption, and we are promoting Action Guidelines initiatives in each of these fields. Creativity Develop the flexibility and foresight to constantly take actions that are creative and innovative. Integration Enhance ORIX Group strength by actively exchanging knowledge, ideas, and experiences. ORIX SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2020 1 Contents Foreword Sustainability at ORIX................................................. 1 ORIX strives to proactively tackle social issues and needs and provide its own unique value based on our Foreword...................................................................... 2 commitment to contributing to society through our business activities. In keeping with this commitment, About ORIX.................................................................. 3 A Message from the CEO............................................ 5 we began publishing our Sustainability Report in 2019 to present our sustainability initiatives. This year's A Message from the Senior Managing Executive report, the second issue of the report, provides an explanation of our sustainability activities, information Officer Responsible for Sustainability...................... 7 on the progress of our sustainability initiatives since the previous fiscal year and our thinking on future Sustainability Initiatives.............................................. 8 initiatives. Through this report, we hope that a wide range of stakeholders will gain a deeper understanding Environment................................................................. 9 Core Principles of Our Sustainability of ORIX, which aims to realize a sustainable society and sustainable growth. “Care for the natural environment”..................... 9 Environmental Policy and Goals ............................ 9 Contributing to Society through < Scope of the Report > Our Business Activities.......................................... 10 ORIX Corporation and Group companies in Japan and overseas. In this report, “ORIX” refers to the ORIX Group. Sustainable Business Activities.............................. 15 Social............................................................................ 16 < Disclosure of Sustainability Information > Core Principles of Our Sustainability In addition to the Sustainability Report, ORIX discloses sustainability information through the following media. “Promote diversity and care for the well-being of our employees”............................... 16 ORIX Group Sustainability Website Relationship with Employees ................................. 16 Presents information on ORIX’s sustainability initiatives. Core Principles of Our Sustainability “Respect human and labor rights”....................... 19 Integrated Report Our Approach to Human Rights............................. 19 Presents financial information and non-financial information, with the principal objective of enabling a wide Contributing to Society through range of stakeholders, including shareholders and investors, to gain a multifaceted understanding of ORIX’s Our Business Activities.......................................... 20 sustainable growth. Sustainable Business Activities.............................. 22 Social Contribution Activities.................................. 23 Governance.................................................................. 24 Approach to Promoting Sustainability................... 24 Sustainability Governance Structure..................... 25 Business Continuity Planning (Disaster Risk Management System) ................... 28 Environmental Performance Data.............................. 30 Personnel-related Data ............................................... 32 Governance-related Data............................................ 34 Initiatives We Support / Inclusion in ESG Indices .... 35 ORIX SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2020 2 About ORIX ORIX was founded in 1964. From our starting point in leasing, ORIX has continued to enhance our expertise in finance and tangible assets as we synergistically expand our businesses. (Data for FY2020.3) History: Global Network: Number of Employees: Diversified Portfolio: Net Income: Segment Assets: 56 years 37 countries  regions and 31,233 10 business segments profitable 55 years of sustained, growth 10 trillion yen Since we introduced the Since launching operations ORIX has grown from a Each segment has the ability We are proud of more than Without overstretching our new financial service of in Hong Kong in 1971, we 13-person venture into a to achieve high profitability 50 years of continuous asset size, we have been leasing to Japan in 1964, have expanded our global company that currently and growth and all segments profitability, which we believe focusing on improving we have been providing a network. employs approximately a r e a b l e t o p r o v i de e a c h is a reflection of the value profitability and strengwide variety of innovative 31,000 people around the other with products and t h e market places on our thening financial soundness. services. world. services. innovative solutions. Furthermore, we adjust our asset mix flexibly for different times and environments. Net income* ¥ 302.7billion Credit screening and 2010: Asset Management finance skills 1998: Banking 1983: Investment 1973: Lending 2014: Business Software 1991: Life Insurance 1964: Leasing 1999: Loan Servicing Leasing 1971: Ships 1978: Aircraft 2014: Agriculture Business 1986: Real Estate 1973: Automobiles 1995: Environment and Energy Expertise in handling 2016: Concession tangible assets Net Income* 1964 1975 1980 1985 1990 1995 2000 2005 2010 2015 2020 (Years ended March 31) *Net income attributable to ORIX Corporation shareholders ORIX SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2020 3 About ORIX ORIX is currently organized in ten independent business segments and has Business Portfolio a diversified portfolio ranging from finance to service-related businesses. Segment Information Corporate Financial Services Real PE Investment Environment Insurance Banking and Aircraft and Ships ORIX USA ORIX Europe Asia and Australia and Maintenance Leasing Estate and Concession and Energy Credit ORIX proactively tackles social issues and needs and provides unique value based Contributing to Society through Our Businesses on our commitment to contributing to society through our business activities. Environment Social Transition to a Carbon-free Society Efficient Use and Supply of Energy Tackling Issues in Aging Societies / Realizing a Smart and Resilient Society Promoting Safe and Healthy Lifestyles ORIX is committed to spreading renewable energy in ORIX is a power producer and also provides energy A smart society countries worldwide. management services to support energy savings. In addressing Japan’s declining birthrate and aging • Rental business (Corporate R&D support, Support for the • Solar power • Geothermal power • Supply electricity as a power producer and supplier population, ORIX provides services that create a society introduction of robots) where elderly people can live without worry and • A uto business (Support companies’ appropriate • Biomass power • Hydropower • S upply environment friendly electric power (electric contributes to the promotion of safe and healthy lifestyles. management of employees and prevention of accidents) • Wind power power with low CO2 emissions) A resilient society • Energy-saving services •M  onitoring service for senior drivers • Auto business (Development and sale of special vehicles • Mail-order will substitute, support for the establishment of that respond to customer needs such as disaster family trusts response and operational efficiency) • Insurance products tailored to meet our customers’ needs Creation of a Society That Reuses and Recycles • Preventive medicine support service • Real estate business (Development of properties with BCP measures) Regional Revitalization Vitalizing Small and Medium-Size ORIX promotes the effective use of resources, waste ORIX promotes the provision of products and services Enterprises (SMEs) reduction, and reduction of environmental impact, and with high environmental performance and the creation contributes to the creation of a society that reuses and of a sharing economy. This leads to the accumulation recycles. of environmentally valuable things in society over the Through initiatives to increase business and tourism • Build a Japan-wide network that supports the collection long term. demand, ORIX is contributing to the revitalization of local ORIX provides a variety of services in addition to finance to of unwanted goods • Auto business (Car rental and car sharing businesses communities. meet the management issues and needs of SMEs and • Concession business (Operation of airports, Operation of supports their revitalization and growth. • Reuse and recycling of unwanted goods and wastes offer electric vehicles and hybrid vehicles, Telematics public wastewater treatment plant) • Business succession support for SMEs • Operation of landfills service “e-Telematics”) • Agriculture business (Development of highly competitive • Business software service for SMEs • Real estate business (Real estate development with high and high-value-added agriculture business) environmental performance, creation of environmentally • Japanese inn management business (ryokan) (Renovation friendly homes) of historic ryokan, Operation of hot springs resorts) P. 10 Environment: Contributing to Society through Our Business Activities P. 20 Social: Contributing to Society through Our Business Activities ORIX SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2020 4 A Message from the CEO Adoption of Our Sustainability Policy sustainability-related goals and create a timetable for to appropriately disclose ESG-related information, The top priority of ORIX since its establishment has been their realization. including climate-related financial data, to our to contribute to society by providing new value through stakeholders. TCFD itself is an initiative aimed at its business activities. It is important that we continue to Environmental Issues We Should addressing climate change, but we believe that the provide new value to all stakeholders and become a Address as a Group information disclosure process developed based on the company that is needed by society. If profits can be The task of the Group is to prepare environment-related recommendations of TCFD can be applied to addressing generated through such businesses and activities, we will data for each segment and to conduct simulations based social issues other than climate change. be able to provide further value, which will lead to growth on that data. We plan to analyze environment-related risks We believe the reduction of GHG emissions,* 1 the of the Group over the long term. and costs and enact sustainability promotion action plans efficient use of energy in our own operated assets, and In September 2019, we adopted the ORIX Corporate and midand long-term targets for each segment. support for the construction of environmentally friendly Sustainability Policy and in October 2019 issued our first Individual investing and lending projects are subject to a smart cities are themes to be considered by the Group. Sustainability Report in order to promote the abovedecision as to whether or not they are feasible in a process We will focus on building infrastructure that is resilient mentioned top priorities in a concrete manner. that takes into account the analysis and assessment of to disasters, and will operate facilities in a manner that In order to promote sustainability and in order to ESG-related risks. incorporates safety and well-being into the equation, meet the expectations and demands of all of our In October 2020, we became a supporter of TCFD (Task taking into account the increase in natural disasters stakeholders, including society at large, we must set Force on Climate-related Financial Disclosures). We aim caused by climate change. Promoting and spreading ORIX SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2020 5 A Message from the CEO renewable energy is also positioned as a business that as the first step we aim to reach a global standard level. businesses, we believe we have the resiliency and contributes to sustainability and decarbonization, and we We will promote sustainability education within the flexibility to adapt to various societal changes. We believe will focus our power generation business on the spread Group, collect and organize environment-related and nonthat ORIX can fully respond to the expectations and of renewable energy. financial data, and disclose accurate ESG-related data. demands of our stakeholders. We will search for investment and business opportunities We would also like to advance ORIX’s participation in on the premise that we will not deal with developments the international initiative RE100.* 3 ORIX will shift its that will have an adverse impact on the ecosystem and electricity use to renewable energy and contribute to the lead to destruction of the natural environment. conversion of customers to renewable energy. There is no change in ORIX’s policy of accelerating our renewable Establishing a Global Standard Level energy business into the future. Sustainability Governance System We aim to establish a governance system that complies Responding to Various Societal Changes with a wide range of ESG-related principles and disclose and Expectations of Our Stakeholders information on a regular basis on the premise that The impact of COVID-19 has marked a major, historical Makoto Inoue Member of the Board of Directors accurate data is collected. Our goal is to be selected as a turning point for the world. ORIX is not an exception to Representative Executive Officer DJSI World & DJSI Asia Pacific*2 constituent stock, and this change, but as a group that promotes diverse President and Chief Executive Officer *1 Greenhouse gas emissions. Greenhouse gases are gases that have the ability to absorb infrared rays and, when present in the atmosphere, have a greenhouse effect. The main greenhouse gases are carbon dioxide, methane, nitrous oxide and chlorofluorocarbons. *2 Dow Jones Sustainability Indices (DJSI) is a global ESG investment index. DJSI measures the sustainability of a company from the aspects of environment, society, and governance (ESG), and selects companies that are comprehensively superior, taking into account market capitalization. Excellent companies are selected from the world’s major companies for DJSI World and from companies in the Asia-Pacific region for DJSI Asia Pacific. *3 An initiative of a global group of companies. Members aim to procure 100% of their electricity from renewable sources. ORIX SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2020 6 A Message from the Senior Managing Executive Officer Responsible for Sustainability For ORIX to continue to grow, it is essential that we most established methodology to combat climate change. After this preparatory period, I am confident that we provide new value to society and become an entity needed For this reason, we have become a supporter of TCFD. will be able to move on to the next phase of our by society. Society is constantly changing, and the pace of For a company to achieve sustainable growth, it is sustainability initiatives. In terms of sustainability, the risk change and the type of change that attracts society’s essential to integrate sustainability concerns into its management aspect is of course important; therefore attention varies over time. Recently, for example, the corporate decision-making process. ORIX has an screening our investing and lending projects so that ORIX spread of COVID-19 has led to an increased focus on established track record of developing and promoting does not make business decisions that will damage Japan’s working styles and vulnerabilities in healthcare in sustainable businesses, such as becoming a major player ORIX’s reputation is important. However, the opportunity non-urban areas. In such a constantly changing in renewable energy in Japan. However, we have not sourcing aspect of sustainability is also very important environment, there is no foolproof way of dealing with necessarily implemented sustainability promotion and I believe our sustainability work will enable ORIX to sustainability or reaching 100% agreement on specific measures that span the entire ORIX Group. Nonetheless, make investments and loans that bring positive benefits methodology. Governments, companies, or organizations management recognizes that what society demands of to society. I believe such positive impact investments and around the world need to think about the unique nature of ORIX is not a collection of individual initiatives, but a loans provide employees with a sense of satisfaction and their own organization, make their own priorities, and adopt systematic corporate approach. To this end, we formulated pride, and are also consistent with ORIX’s corporate methods that suit their own specific needs. Unlike the legal the ORIX Sustainable Investing and Lending Policy in culture of being sensitive to and responding quickly to and compliance world, where there are laws and September 2019 as the first step toward the integration of societal needs. We will continue to work proactively regulations that all must follow, sustainability by its nature sustainability into the corporate decision-making process. toward sustainability by both contributing to the realization leads to this kind of tailored, individualized approach. For Based on this policy, business matters that are authorized of a sustainable society and establishing a path for this reason, I imagine the leadership of various at the ORIX Corporation Investment and Credit Committee sustainable growth for ORIX. corporations, like the leadership of ORIX, have a lot to think are screened from a sustainability perspective. In July about when it comes to their approach to sustainability. 2019, we established a dedicated team to promote That said, in today’s society, climate change is a corporate sustainability within ORIX. The past year was a common global issue that is nearly universally recognized. period in which we promoted and signaled within ORIX While there are a variety of methods for addressing Group as a whole that we have established a team to Shoji Taniguchi climate change, the goals are clear, and data provides a promote sustainability and will be actively engaging in Member of the Board of Directors Senior Managing Executive Officer clear picture of progress toward the goals. In view of sustainability as a group. We also felt that this was a period Responsible for Treasury and Accounting Headquarters these circumstances, it is now essential for companies to in which we signaled to our employees that sustainability Responsible for Enterprise Risk Management Headquarters Responsible for Corporate Planning Department tackle climate change. ORIX believes that TCFD (Task is something they each need to be aware of and consider Responsible for Corporate Communications Department Force on Climate-related Financial Disclosures) is the as every individual employee’s mandate. Assistant to CEO ORIX SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2020 7 Sustainability Initiatives ORIX has been working on the following sustainability October 2018 Established Sustainability Task Force. initiatives. July 2019 Established Sustainability Team in Corporate Planning Department. S ince our establishment, our approach to sustainability has been to tackle social issues and needs through our September 2019 Adopted the ORIX Corporate Sustainability Policy, ORIX Human Rights Policy, business activities. We clarified and reiterated this approach and ORIX Sustainable Investing and Lending Policy. in our Sustainability Policy. Based on this policy, we have Released Modern Slavery Act Statement. established a system to institutionalize our approach to October 2019 Issued Sustainability Report (English edition issued in November). sustainability and are working to raise awareness among all Began sustainable investing and lending screening (began screening the ESG levels of employees. elements of investment and lending proposals pursuant to the Sustainable Through the publication of our Sustainability Report and the Investing and Lending Policy). dissemination of information on the ORIX Group sustainability November 2019 Began formulating and establishing sustainability action plans and targets of website, we aim to explain our initiatives and deepen our business units (aiming for finalization during the fiscal year ended March 2021). communication with our stakeholders. January 2020 Issued green bonds. June 2020 Launched the Sustainability Library to raise sustainability awareness in the Company (introduces basic information about sustainability and ORIX’s sustainability initiatives). July 2020 Began sustainability training for employees. October 2020 Announced support for TCFD (Task Force on Climate-related Financial Disclosures). ORIX Corporate Sustainability Policy Modern Slavery Act Statement ORIX Human Rights Policy Sustainability Report ORIX Sustainable Investing and Lending Policy ORIX SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2020 8 Environment Core Principles of Our Sustainability “Care for the natural environment” Care for the natural environment: As detailed in our Environmental Policy, we measure and minimize our environmental impacts and look The ORIX Corporate Sustainability Policy states “Care to provide solutions to society’s environmental issues through our business. ORIX takes a precautionary for the natural environment” as one of our core approach, as set out in the Rio Declaration, to environmental challenges, meaning we act proactively principles that should be implemented in our daily work. to manage environmental risks and do not use lack of full scientific evidence as a reason to postpone reasonable actions to prevent environmental damage. Environmental Policy and Goals (Updated September 25, 2012) Environmental Policy Goals ORIX Group strives to understand the needs of customers 1. Provide new ecological services that contribute environmental and energy solutions. and society, contributing environmental and energy solutions 2. Understand the impact of business activities on the environment, complying with environmental laws and regulations in order to through business. We will continue to adapt to changes reduce environmental impact. brought on by business expansion and growth. 3. Raise employee awareness and knowledge in order to respond to environmental issues based on the nature of our business. 4. Provide and disclose information on matters required by environmental laws and regulations. Responding to Climate Change and Supporting TCFD Responding to climate change is a key issue that needs institutions should respond. TCFD published its final report promoting our sustainability more generally. to be addressed globally. ORIX recognizes that climate in June 2017, and recommends companies to disclose ORIX recognizes climate change as an important risk and change is an issue that we should tackle and expressed items related to climate change-related risks and opportunities. at the same time as an opportunity for our global operations. our support for TCFD (Task Force on Climate-related ORIX believes that responding to TCFD recommendations We will work to determine the financial impact of climate Financial Disclosures) in October 2020. will contribute to improving our corporate value over the change risks and opportunities and enhance our disclosure TCFD has been established by the Financial Stability medium to long term, and that working on actions to while also working proactively to respond to climate change Board (FSB)* at the request of G20 to examine how climateachieve TCFD recommendations will also be effective in issues through our business activities. related information should be disclosed, and how financial establishing a solid methodology and governance for * An international body comprised by finance ministries and central banks, which monitors the global financial system. ORIX SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2020 9 Environment Contributing to Society through Renewable Energy Business Wind power generation business Generate (Japan and overseas) Our Business Activities ORIX promotes development and operation • In Japan, we are considering the feasibility of offshore wind of power plants that utilize not only solar power generation business. Transition to a Carbon-free Society, power but also wind and geothermal power. We contribute to the spread of a • In India, we operate a total of 23 wind power plants in southwestern Efficient Use and Supply of Energy Indian states. The total generating capacity is 873.5MW. well-balanced use of renewable energy. —Energy Business (All figures are as of March 31, 2020) Geothermal power generation business ORIX is committed to popularizing renewable energy including (Japan and overseas) Solar power generation business (Japan) solar, biomass, geothermal and wind to support the transition to • In Japan, we plan to commence commercial operations of three a carbon-free society now in progress in countries worldwide. For • Mega-solar and roof solar power generation business geothermal power plants in 2022 or after. Total generation efficient use and supply of energy, ORIX provides a stable supply ORIX is one of the largest solar power producers in Japan. Our capacity will be 12.9MW. We are also investigating and solar power generation business has projects with a capacity of considering projects in other locations. of electricity including environment friendly electrical power (low about 1GW of which 910MW of capacity is online. • In the United States, we are an investor in Ormat Technologies, emissions factor services) through our power supply service. • Corporate PPA (Power Purchase Agreement) Inc. (“Ormat”). Ormat runs a geothermal power generation Our energy management service supports customers to realize Through our Corporate PPA service, ORIX installs solar power business with operations in the U.S., Central America and energy savings. generation systems and storage battery systems at customerAfrica. Ormat has a total generating capacity of 914MW. owned facilities, and supplies the electricity generated through these systems to the customers. Hydropower generation business <ORIX’s Energy Business> (Overseas) Biomass power generation business • O RIX has a stake in Bitexco Power Corporation (“BPC”), a ORIX has built a value chain of generating, delivering, (Japan) hydropower generation company in Vietnam. BPC has a total and managing energy, and provides one-stop services • ORIX operates three power plants. generating capacity of 895MW. tailored to respond to customer needs. • One power plant is fueled by 100% wood chip biomass and has a total generation capacity of 13.6MW. Operation, management, and maintenance Generate Deliver Manage • Two power plants are fueled by coal and wood chip biomass of renewable energy power plants (Japan) and have a total generation capacity of 224MW. These power • O RIX established a company tasked with the operation, plants use environment friendly, world-class facilities. Biomass management, and maintenance of power plants that use accounts for approximately 30% or more of the total amount of renewable energy. We operate and manage power plants fuel. This results in lower CO2 emissions compared to coal-fired at 84 sites nationwide, with a combined power generation power plants in the same class. capacity of approximately 446MW. In addition to carrying out maintenance and checks, ORIX provides immediate recovery support to minimize downtime and power generation losses For detailed information in the event of malfunctions and maximizes power generation Transition to a Carbon-free Society capacity by using remote monitoring and data analysis. ORIX SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2020 10 Environment Contributing to Society through Our Business Activities (Transition to a Carbon-free Society, Efficient Use and Supply of Energy —Energy Business) Deliver Power Supply Service Manage Energy Management Service Other In addition to our stable power supply We contribute to reduced energy usage service, we provide various power by making tailored energy saving Joint research into a power tracking system supply menus to support our customers’ proposals according to the energy usage • ORIX has started joint research into a tracking system that management of their carbon footprint. status of our customers. leverages blockchain technology to verify the production site and history of renewable energy-based electric power, from Electric power retailing Energy-saving services supply to consumption. This research is an effort to solve the • As a power producer and supplier, ORIX supplies generated • Energy-saving services are services aimed at helping problem of certifying the origin of renewable energy. power primarily to privately owned buildings and facilities customers realize energy savings and reductions in CO2 requiring high-voltage power. emissions through increased productivity of factories and Participating in a demonstration project to • Annual electricity sales volume is 1,995,390,000 kWh (FY production equipment. The services are offered when our build a virtual power plant (VPP) 2020.3). The number of electric power supply destinations is customers update or establish new production facilities in • Virtual power plants (VPP) control the charge and discharge approximately 10,000 facilities (as of March 31, 2020). factories and buildings. of storage batteries installed at the homes of private • ORIX operates three power plants (biomass power plants customers, commercial facilities and factories to make shown in the previous page) for stable power supply. Sale and lease/rental of solar panels, them function like a single power plant. VPPs make efficient electricity storage systems use of small distributed energy resources and provide Environment friendly power supply • We conduct wholesaling, leasing, rental and other services the economic benefit of being cheaper to establish than services for solar panels and electricity storage systems. The traditional power plants. • ORIX provides environment friendly electrical power supply combined use of solar panels and electricity storage services (low emissions factor services). ORIX supports systems allows customers to save electricity generated by customers both in achieving RE100 and in reducing their CO2 solar power for own use, sale of surplus electricity, and as emissions by increasing the proportion of electrical power preparation for power outages. generated from renewable energy and purchasing non-fossil certificates and J-Credits. For detailed information Efficient Use and Supply of Energy ORIX SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2020 11 Environment Contributing to Society through Our Business Activities Creation of a Society That Reuses Collect • ORIX is constructing a dry-type biogas power generation and Recycles —Environment Business Collecting resources and waste facility, the largest in Japan,*2 that utilizes municipal waste. The plant is scheduled to be completed and put into operation ORIX conducts business activities such as collecting resources in the fall of 2021. A dry biogas power generation facility can and waste, regenerating resources and waste by reusing • ORIX has built a Japan-wide network to support collecting be used to recycle food without separating food waste and and recycling, and managing resources and waste properly. unwanted goods. In addition to collecting waste and other waste. The operation of this facility will contribute to the Through these activities, ORIX promotes effective use of unwanted goods, we also respond to diverse customer improvement of the food recycling rate, which is low due to the resources, control of waste generation, and reduction of needs including reuse, recycling, and proper disposal of difficulty of separating food waste and other non-food wastes. environmental impact, and contributes to the creation of a society that reuses and recycles. unwanted goods with a network for proper disposal that *2 Researched by ORIX. includes companies involved in collection and transportation, sale of used products, intermediate disposal and recycling. Manage <ORIX’s Environment Business> Managing resources and waste ORIX has built a value chain of collecting, regenerating, Regenerate properly and managing resources and waste, and provides oneRegenerating resources and stop services tailored to respond to customer needs. waste by reusing and recycling • ORIX operates one of the largest controlled landfills in Japan. Collect Regenerate Manage We provide final disposal of non-recyclable items as waste. • The collected waste items are sorted and those that can be • ORIX offers a nationwide disposal service for used solar reused are sold to second-hand sales companies. Items that panels. Currently, shredding and landfill treatment is the cannot be reused are disassembled and recycled as materials. mainstream. In the future, we will work to address the • ORIX operates a zero waste facility* that uses cutting1 recycling of solar panels. edge thermal decomposition, gasification and reforming • ORIX provides a service to destroy data on storage equipment. methods. A main feature of the facility is that it achieves a In this service, we have installed a shredding machine in a 100% recycling rate by reducing waste to reusable resources special vehicle that we have developed and dispatch the through the process of melting or gasifying waste at vehicle to designated locations to destroy the data on the approximately 2,000℃. It is capable of processing 450 tons storage device in the presence of the customer. of waste per day, making it one of the largest private-sector incineration and melting facilities in Japan. *1 A facility that achieves zero waste by breaking down waste into raw materials For detailed information and effectively using them. Creation of a Society That Reuses and Recycles ORIX SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2020 12 Environment Contributing to Society through Our Business Activities Creation of a Society That Reuses upon the occurrence of erratic or unusual driving behavior. • Creation of environmentally friendly homes and Recycles Such notifications lead to safe, environmentally sound In its Strategic Energy Plan, the Government of Japan has —Auto Business / Real Estate Business driving that reduces fuel costs, improves fuel economy and set a policy goal of achieving ZEH* 3 for houses by 2030. reduces CO2 emissions. Ahead of this plan, we completed Japan’s first “Nearly ORIX contributes to the creation of a society that emphasizes Number of vehicles with e-Telematics and e-Telematics ZEH-M*4” condominium in 2019. We are promoting ZEH-M the extended use of products and reduces environmental PRO: 159,000. condominiums as a standard for our future developments. loading. Providing products and services with high • Car sharing business *3 ZEH is an acronym for a net zero energy house, meaning a house that aims to reduce its balance of annual energy consumption to zero or less by means of environmental performance and promoting a sharing economy ORIX is developing a car sharing business with more than energy savings through the introduction of high-performance insulation materials in our auto business and real estate business ultimately helps 2,000 car sharing stations centered around urban areas and energy efficient equipment, as well as energy creation from electricity generation using solar power or other methods. to promote long-term rather than short-term use of assets operating more than 3,400 vehicles. We are responding to *4 N early Zero Energy Mansion. A condominium that complies with Nearly by society. the call for reducing environmental loading including CO2 ZEH-M guidelines and achieves a reduction of 75% or more in primary energy consumption through energy savings and energy creation. emissions by promoting the combined use of car sharing and public transportation. • Residential renovation business Approximately 270,000 member users. ORIX is promoting real estate renovation of both communal Auto Business (All figures are as of March 31, 2020) and detached housing to lengthen the life span of real estate • Car rental and car sharing businesses in Japan. In these businesses, we purchase a second-hand Real Estate Business Our car rental and car sharing businesses offers electric condominium and carry out large-scale repair work not only vehicles (EV), hybrid vehicles (HV) and fuel cell vehicles • R eal estate development with high environmental in the interior of exclusively owned areas but also in common (FCV). We have about 3,000 locations nationwide. Of performance areas such as the entrance and exterior to increase the the approximately 75,000 vehicles under management, The buildings and logistics facilities that ORIX has developed building’s value. ORIX is actively receiving orders for repair approximately 11,000 are EV, HV or FCV. have earned high praise for environmental performance and work to protect the value of buildings and allow residents to • Telematics service “e-Telematics” acquired certifications such as LEED* and CASBEE.* 1 2 live long-term in their housing with peace of mind. In ORIX’s e-Telematics service, an onboard device with *1 An environmental performance index developed by the U.S. Green Building Council. It aims to promote the global development of sustainable buildings with communication and GPS functions is installed in customer excellent energy efficiency. vehicles to visualize their operating status. The service *2 C omprehensive Assessment System for Built Environment Efficiency: An evaluation system in Japan that evaluates and ranks the environmental analyzes driving data and notifies a designated recipient performance of buildings. For detailed information Creation of a Society That Reuses and Recycles ORIX SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2020 13 Environment Contributing to Society through Our Business Activities Initiatives for the Environment Utilization of geothermal heat from hot Reduction of CO2 emissions in aquariums springs at hot spring inns Reduction of Environmental Impact in Business Processes • Artificial seawater • Beppu SUGINOI HOTEL operates the Suginoi Geothermal The Kyoto and Sumida Aquariums have created the first Power Station, which utilizes the largest geothermal resource ORIX is working to reduce the environmental impact of its Japanese* 1 artificial seawater production system* 2 and in Japan for private use. The total generating capacity is business processes. replaced the water in their aquariums with water from this 1,900kW (1.9MW), and the generated electricity is used in system. This system solves many problems faced by inland electric facilities throughout the hotel and covers about 30% Powering recycling plants with 100% aquariums, such as suppressing the CO2 generated when of its peak electricity consumption. renewable energy transporting sea water in large vehicles. Additionally, the • There is growing societal demand for environment friendly system also maintains a constant water quality throughout Abolition of use of plastic straws and initiatives such as reductions in CO2. As such, ORIX Eco the year. Because of this, it is now possible to provide a plastic bags Services (OES) has decided to convert its two recycling comfortable environment for organisms in aquariums. • ORIX Real Estate is actively promoting measures to prevent plants—Funabashi Plant and Kasukabe Plant—to use *1 Kyoto Aquarium was the first in Japan, followed by the Sumida Aquarium. marine pollution by reducing plastic waste. To this end, ORIX *2 Excludes freshwater. electrical power generated from 100% renewable energy Real Estate has abolished the use of plastic straws at 25 (including the use of non-fossil certified renewable energy • Installation of solar electrical panels accommodations, aquariums, and restaurants and replaced sources); these plants are therefore now powered by The Kyoto Aquarium controls CO 2 emissions through the them with paper straws. ORIX Real Estate also abolished the CO 2-free electricity. In the future, OES plans to source use of solar power generation systems, advanced ventilation use of free plastic bags in aquarium gift shops (still offered the electrical power used by these recycling plants from systems, and LED lighting. for a fee) and is shifting to the use of free paper bags. Agatsuma Biomass Power Plant and other renewable energy power plants owned by ORIX Group. For detailed information Reduction of Environmental Impact in Business Processes ORIX SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2020 14 Environment Sustainable Business Activities Helping Achieve a Sustainable Society through Our Environment and Energy Business ORIX launched its environment and energy business in 1995. It capacity of approximately 910MW, and hydroelectric power municipal waste processing facilities. has now expanded into a wide range of markets, with energy generation capacity of approximately 900MW. We intend to expand our environment and energy business businesses including renewable energy, electric power retailing The trend toward a sustainable society is in full force globally, therefore advancing the overall business, and will and energy-saving services, and environmental businesses worldwide. It involves initiatives to use renewable energy continue to contribute to ORIX’s goal of creating a sustainable including waste recycling and processing. Notably, ORIX and create a society that reuses and recycles, which is giving society through our business activities. is a leader in Japan in solar power, with generation capacity rise to numerous related technologies and services. We are of approximately 1,000MW, including plants in operation using the expertise we have cultivated in these businesses and planned for construction, and in geothermal power, to proactively conduct new initiatives that include expanding with plants planned for construction having a potential our renewable energy business in Japan and internationally, generation capacity of 13MW. Outside Japan, ORIX providing services that help customers reduce carbon Hidetake Takahashi participates in businesses with wind power generation capacity emissions, developing technologies for managing renewable Executive Ofﬁcer of approximately 870MW, geothermal power generation energy supply and demand using IT, and constructing new Head of Energy and Eco Services Business Headquarters Resolving Social Issues through Diverse Real Estate Businesses ORIX launched its real estate business in 1986. We now Our real estate businesses are able to contribute to various development and local inn management. Another focus is have a comprehensive portfolio of diversified real estate social issues such as reducing the environmental impact of real making the customers who use our properties feel safe, businesses that encompass: i) development and investment in estate and regional revitalization. Addressing these issues helps secure and comfortable. properties such as office buildings, commercial facilities and to create new business opportunities and increase the value of logistics centers; ii) the operation of facilities including inns, our business. By resolving social issues through our business, hotels and aquariums; iii) real estate asset management; iv) we aim to create a business portfolio that has both high market mixed-use urban development projects; and v) real estate value while also helping to realize a sustainable society. development, distribution, maintenance and management with Specific initiatives include developing environmentally Toshinari Fukaya a focus on condominiums through DAIKYO, which became a friendly real estate, conserving energy at the facilities we Group Managing Executive wholly owned subsidiary in 2019. operate, and revitalizing regional areas through community President, ORIX Real Estate Corporation ORIX SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2020 15 Social Core Principles of Our Sustainability “Promote diversity and care for the well-being of our employees” The ORIX Corporate Sustainability Policy states “Promote diversity and care for the well-being of our Promote diversity and care for the well-being of our employees: employees” as one of our core principles that should We respect the diversity of our employees and provide opportunities and environments that maximize be implemented in our daily work. their professional development. Furthermore, ORIX is committed to respecting the culture, customs and environment of countries and regions where we operate, and positively contribute to those economies and societies. We are also committed to creating safe and secure workplaces where our employees can thrive and where no forms of discrimination are tolerated. Relationship with Employees ORIX’s Human Resource Strategies maximize the capabilities and expertise of our employees. Ideal Characteristics Specifically, we create fulfilling workplaces by establishing Maximizing the Capabilities and Expertise of Our a working environment that respects diverse working styles Creativity: Employees under the Concept of “Keep Mixed” and reforming our human resource system ahead of the Proactively creating new businesses People are ORIX’s most important asset. Based on our pack instead of just reacting to current social conventions. concept of “Keep Mixed,” we hire diverse human resources Moreover, we are enhancing training to offer opportunities for Challenge: regardless of nationality, age, gender or work history, employees who embrace challenges and to enable employees Taking on new challenges and acquiring a integrating their diverse values and expertise with the aim of a to excel internationally. high level of expertise Fusion of Intelligence to create new value and workplaces that Teamwork: Diverse Human Resources Workplaces That Offer Value Respecting diversity and actively driving collaboration Keep Mixed Academic Management That Makes Nationality Background Creating New the Most of Individuality Value from Fusion of Work-Life Age Gender Career Self-Fulfillment Intelligence Balance ORIX SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2020 16 Social Relationship with Employees Initiatives to Realize Our Corporation increased from 18% as of March 31, 2014 to contract printing and mailing, digitalization of stored documents “Keep Mixed” Concept 25.3% as of March 31, 2020. We will continue to promote the and preparation of direct mailing enclosures, as well as other advancement of women by improving career support programs services such as washing and inspecting sales vehicles, office ORIX promotes diversity and inclusion and the creation of that help female employees to develop their careers, expand cleaning and operation of a cafe for employees. workplaces that offer value for all employees to realize its their roles and make full use of their abilities. M id-career employees and hiring new graduates concept of “Keep Mixed.” P romoting the participation and advancement of overseas seniors in the workplace We also focus on recruiting mid-career employees and hiring Promoting Diversity and Inclusion Senior citizens are increasingly motivated to work due to new graduates overseas to secure diverse human resources With the changing social environment, the need for a wider economic reasons such as longer healthy life expectancy aligned with our changing businesses. Since its establishment, array of working styles is increasing. We are promoting and an increase in the age when pension payments start. ORIX has been active in hiring mid-career employees with diversity and inclusion to create workplaces that are optimal Moreover, the knowledge and skills that senior employees have job histories in fields including not only finance, but also for the performance of individuals with different capabilities cultivated in their work are valuable assets for companies. To manufacturing, consulting, trading, real estate and services. and expertise, as well as to offer diverse working styles to create an environment where senior employees can work with 66% of employees who joined ORIX in the fiscal year ended accommodate different life events. a sense of security, ORIX raised the retirement age from 60 to March 2020 were mid-career hires.*2 Since 2016, ORIX has P romoting the participation and advancement of 65 in April 2014. We believe that the continued participation of been focusing on recruiting students with diverse values, women in the workplace senior employees with extensive experience and expertise will including the hiring of new graduates from overseas ORIX was one of the earliest promoters in Japan of women’s enhance the company’s organizational strength and vitality. universities in China, Taiwan and South Korea as well as participation in the workplace. We started recruiting female Promoting the employment of people with disabilities foreign students in Japan. university graduates for comprehensive work positions* 1 ORIX established ORIX Business Support, a special subsidiary, *1 In Japan, there are two different tracks to employment: comprehensive and general administrative. Comprehensive track employees work on business in 1982, before the enforcement of the Equal Employment in April 2007 to promote the employment of people with matters and are potential managerial candidates. They are expected to take Opportunity Law in 1986. We have also expanded our human disabilities. Today, two business offices in Tokyo (Tachikawa) on a variety of roles in a range of business areas, and are therefore subject to transfers and relocations. General administrative employees, on the other hand, resources system accordingly and are actively engaged in and Osaka help promote ORIX’s operational efficiency by mainly provide administrative and clerical support to comprehensive employees. not only expanding the human resources system but also in undertaking routine tasks outsourced from within ORIX Group *2 Total of 10 ORIX Group companies: ORIX, ORIX Rentec, ORIX Auto, ORIX Credit, ORIX Real Estate, ORIX Computer Systems, ORIX Bank, ORIX Life strategically raising awareness about gender equality. The companies. As of April 1, 2020, 69 people with disabilities and Insurance, ORIX Eco Services and ORIX Asset Management & Loan Services. ratio of female employees in managerial positions at ORIX nine supervisors handle outsourced clerical services including ORIX SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2020 17 Social Relationship with Employees Workplaces That Offer Value ORIX defines a “workplace that offers value” as a dynamic, Employee morale survey Employee Health and Safety fulfilling working environment in which employees can To obtain data on how employees feel about their daily work perform to their full potential in good health and with peace for use in future human resource measures, we introduced At ORIX, each employee is a valuable asset. Our Group of mind. We are implementing a variety of initiatives to foster a survey of employee morale in 2004. Employee morale companies and health insurance associations work together workplaces that offer value for all employees. survey results are used as a reference for deciding on human to promote initiatives aimed at improving the safety and Work Style Reform Project resource measures for the ORIX Group or for verifying the health of employees so that they can fully demonstrate We launched our Work Style Reform Project in 2016 under the effectiveness of current measures. their abilities as they continue working with enthusiasm for direct mandate of the CEO, and we are working to enhance many years, healthy in both mind and body. Specifically, and improve measures to support various working styles and based on the characteristics of each Group company, we raise employee awareness. implement various measures to promote health under the themes of early detection for early treatment, prevention of < New human resources systems established from the Work Style Reform Project > disease progression, and lifestyle-related disease prevention We eliminated the core working hours of the preceding flextime system and enhanced for the young. For safety, we support the participation and Super flextime system working hour flexibility. advancement of diverse human resources in areas including System allowing paid leave education and training, management of safe driving and This system allows employees to take paid leave in hourly units instead of whole days so to be taken in hourly units creation of a disaster response manual. that they can take paid leave more efficiently. instead of whole days System to incentivize Employee Health and Safety This system offers incentives when employees take annual paid leave for five consecutive employees to take their business days. vacation days This system allows employees to work at their desired department for a certain period. Internal intern system The purpose of this system is to promote autonomous career formation. System of financial support for This system provides financial support for self-improvement so that employees can self-improvement effectively use the free time created through the promotion of work style reforms. Personnel System Human Resource Development System ORIX SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2020 18 Social Core Principles of Our Sustainability Respect human and labor rights: “Respect human and labor rights” We uphold human and labor rights as defined in international standards such as the Universal The ORIX Corporate Sustainability Policy states “Respect Declaration of Human Rights and the International Labour Organization’s Declaration on Fundamental human and labor rights” as one of our core principles Principles and Rights at Work. This includes, but is not limited to, the rights to freedom of association that should be implemented in our daily work. and collective bargaining and the elimination of all forms of compulsory and child labor. Our Approach to Human Rights ORIX believes that corporate responsibility should be its subsidiary, ORIX Corporation UK Limited. ORIX Corporation and matters in regions with an elevated human rights risk. This part of everything that ORIX does, and part of such annually issues its Modern Slavery Act Statement pursuant to ESG risk assessment also utilizes information from databases corporate responsibility is the duty to integrate human the MSA. provided by third-party organizations. Through analysis and rights considerations into business operations. We Modern Slavery Act Statement evaluation of human rights risks, we are striving to incorporate adopted the ORIX Human Rights Policy in September human rights considerations into our business activities, and 2019. The policy details our commitment to respect are also making efforts to prevent human rights violations. basic human rights, including the human rights laid Our Efforts to Achieve Respect for out in the Universal Declaration of Human Rights and Human Rights Compliance Hotline for Consultation and the Guiding Principles for Business and Human Rights Reporting on Human Rights Issues and to promote respect for human rights both within Analysis and Assessment of Human Rights Risk ORIX accepts human rights consultations and reports through ORIX and vis-à-vis clients and suppliers of ORIX. ORIX has worked with third-party experts to analyze the our internal and external whistleblower system. The internal ORIX Human Rights Policy specific risk profiles of its various businesses in order to whistleblower system is available to ORIX Group employees understand our overall human rights risk profile. Based on and the external whistleblower system is available to our these analysis results, we have identified regions and business clients and suppliers. We accept consultations on human Our Response to the UK Modern Slavery areas and practices where human rights risks are particularly rights violations such as harassment and opinions on human Act 2015 (“MSA”) high. In addition, based on the ORIX Sustainable Investing and rights considerations. Lending Policy formulated in September 2019, we perform an Internal Whistleblower System ORIX Corporation is within the scope of the MSA due to the ESG risk assessment of new investment and lending projects, External Whistleblower System fact that it carries on business in the U.K. in conjunction with including human rights risks such as forced labor, child labor ORIX SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2020 19 Social Contributing to Society through Our Business Activities  ackling Issues in Aging Societies / T Promoting Safe and Healthy Lifestyles Realizing a Smart and Resilient Society Promoting Safe and Healthy Lifestyles  • ORIX Life Insurance strives to research and develop new We contribute to the realization of a smart and resilient society To create a society where elderly people can live without and varied products in order to provide optimal insurance through the products and services of businesses such as our worry, ORIX provides services that contribute to solving according to customers’ needs. ORIX Life Insurance is auto, rental, and real estate businesses. Our auto business various problems faced by Japan’s aging society. Further, improving operations and aiming to create new services in supports employee management and prevention of accidents and with the declining birthrate and aging population, the order to realize customer-oriented business operations. is working on the development of special vehicles that address reliability of the social security system for the future is under The number of insurance policies in force is 4.52 million as of needs such as disaster response and optimizing operational scrutiny. We provide products and services that are prepared March 31, 2020. efficiency. Our rental business provides services that support to cope with financial and health concerns, contributing to the  • As the first medical mobile service company in Japan, corporate R&D. In the real estate business, we are developing promotion of safe and healthy lifestyles. FREEILL provides preventive medicine support service and properties with sound BCPs (business continuity plans) in place. contributes to a wide range of regional medical services by offering rental services for vehicles equipped with advanced Tackling Issues in Aging Societies Auto Business (All figures are as of March 31, 2020) diagnostic imaging systems including MRI and CT scanners.   • ORIX Auto telematics service analyzes driving data and identifies • ORIX Auto provides a monitoring service for the families of senior drivers. The service reduces the risk of accidents using compliance, safety and environmental issues in the operation telematics technology. The number of seniors involved in of client company vehicles and provides consulting services on fatal accidents has been rising year by year, and the objective appropriate employee management and accident prevention. of this service is to visualize driving to quickly identify the 159,000 vehicles have e-Telematics or e-Telematics PRO signs of dangerous behavior. For detailed information installed.  Tackling Issues in Aging Societies / Promoting Safe and Healthy Lifestyles  • ORIX Auto plans and develops mobile bank branch vehicles • ORIX Bank offers mail-order will substitutes that respond to a growing need for assistance with inheritance issues. ORIX and mobile office vehicles. Mobile bank branch vehicles Bank also provides support for establishing family trusts, in enable financial institutions to provide financial services in preparation for a decline in competency and decision-making disaster situations and also in areas where they no longer abilities due to dementia or other conditions. have a permanent presence due to branch consolidation. Mobile office vehicles enable companies to improve labor efficiency and lessen employee fatigue. Mobile bank branch vehicle sales: 137 units Mobile office vehicle rental units in inventory: 273 units nationwide For detailed information Smart and Resilient Society ORIX SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2020 20 Social Contributing to Society through Our Business Activities Regional Revitalization Agriculture Business Vitalizing Small and Medium-Size Enterprises ORIX contributes to the revitalization of local communities • I n the agriculture business, we are contributing to the Small and medium-size enterprises (SMEs) play an important through its businesses such as the concessions business, development of agriculture in Japan by designing business role in the Japanese economy and are a large and central agriculture business, and Japanese inn (ryokan) management models that incorporate new operation systems such as customer base for ORIX. In addition to finance, ORIX provides business. large hydroponic cultivation facilities and plant factories with a variety of services to meet the management issues and artificial light. needs of SMEs to support their revitalization and growth. Concession Business Operation of Japanese Inns Business Succession Support for SMEs • Japan’s overall population decline and the shift of populations away from rural areas to urban areas are leading to lower • In managing our inns, especially regarding the renovation of • Business succession support is an initiative to meet the local municipal revenue causing an inability to update historic ryokan, we are focusing on continuously employing business succession needs of SMEs. While maintaining infrastructure, which in turn dampens local economic activity. local employees. The increased number of guests drawn by the company name and employment of the company we To address these social issues, the Japanese government investment in new facilities and improved service levels has support, we will work with the company to improve its is promoting concessions to revitalize local economies also helped to increase the number of tourists. internal control system and strengthen successor training. and enhance fiscal soundness through infrastructure Through business succession support, ORIX aims not only to improvement, and ORIX is energetically answering this call. help the company to continue to exist and thrive, but also to We operate three airports, Kansai International Airport, Osaka develop the local economy and create employment. International Airport and Kobe Airport, and collaborate with local businesses and governments to increase business and For detailed information Business Software Service for SMEs tourism demand. Regional Revitalization • Our business software service supports SMEs, sole proprietors, and entrepreneurs. We develop and sell a range of business software and provide after-sales support and services. We support a significant improvement in the efficiency of accounting operations. We also provide sales management and payroll services. For detailed information Vitalizing Small and Medium-Size Enterprises ORIX SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2020 21 Social Sustainable Business Activities Services for the Mobility Society of the Future ORIX Auto strives to offer automobile-related services that to provide automotive services nationwide. We deploy the contribute to the creation of a sustainable society. We large volume of data we obtain from our services along with endeavor to provide optimal transportation solutions for our customer feedback to envision the mobility needs of the future customers while also delivering products and services that and offer relevant services that increase safety and security help reduce environmental impact and traffic accidents and while helping to reduce environmental impact. In addition, strengthen our customers’ compliance with various health and we aim to deepen the cooperative relationship we have with safety laws. business partners including dealers, garages and rental car Innovations in automotive technology and changes in market franchises to provide more tailored and sustainability-oriented Yuji Kamiyauchi needs are accelerating, which we believe is an outstanding services. Group Executive business opportunity for ORIX Auto. Our strength is our ability President, ORIX Auto Corporation Optimal Solutions for Companies Corporate Financial Services was ORIX’s first line of business launched a specialized team to meet the business succession and has remained the core platform for ORIX Group sales. It needs of SMEs. Our business succession initiatives focus on is involved in equipment leasing and loans, provides a wide business continuation by solving SME succession problems range of products and services to small and medium-sized instead of focusing on short-term earnings and growth. Thus enterprises (SMEs), a core customer base, and proposes we are contributing to the continuity and development of optimal solutions for customer needs and management issues. SMEs, which are essential for communities, and helping to Satoru Matsuzaki The population of Japan is aging, which is causing many create local jobs and revitalize local economies. We would like Member of the Board of Directors SMEs to shut down their businesses for lack of a successor. the companies we have supported to number in the hundreds Senior Managing Executive Officer Head of Corporate Business Headquarters This is an important issue for Corporate Financial Services ten years from now. We also expect this business to generate Chairman, ORIX Auto Corporation because it serves a customer base of SMEs, so in 2018 we new business collaboration opportunities and create markets. Chairman, ORIX Rentec Corporation ORIX SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2020 22 Social Social Contribution Activities In addition to helping resolve social issues through Activities for Children Community Contribution Activities our businesses, ORIX conducts various initiatives for social and environmental issues that are not covered ORIX has been accepting elementary and junior high school ORIX converted Makurazaki Airport into a mega-solar by our business activities. teachers as trainees under a program to provide teachers with power plant and installed an astronomical observatory at training on corporate activities. Japan Institute for Social and the site to provide a place for local residents to gather. Environmental Conservation Activities Economic Affairs (Keizai Koho Center), an organization related ORIX Australia Corporation Limited (OACL) supports to the Japan Business Federation (Keidanren), serves as Foodbank, an organization that works to prevent hunger, and ORIX launched an Okinawa coral revival project called SANGO secretariat to the program. Cure Cancer Australia, an organization that supports young ORIX in 2008 with the goal of planting a total of 10,000 coral The Sumida Aquarium participates in the School Support cancer researchers. OACL also donates money through seedlings. The seedlings were planted in 2016. Today, SANGO Network Project organized by the Sumida Ward Board of the charity United Way to support educational programs for ORIX continues to support the transplanting of coral seedlings Education Secretariat and holds classes at elementary schools children and help young people find employment. through the ORIX Miyauchi Foundation. in Sumida Ward. The Kyoto Aquarium also offers lectures to Since 2012, ORIX METRO Leasing and Finance Corporation elementary schools in Kyoto City. One of the class topics was For other Social Contribution Activities Social Contribution Activities (Philippines) has been planting mangrove trees along San the giant salamander, which is symbolic of rivers in Kyoto. Social contribution activities by ORIX Miyauchi Foundation and ORIX Foundation Miguel Bay, Cagsao District, Luzon Island. ORIX Miyauchi Foundation ORIX Foundation Inside the astronomical observatory on the site Training for teachers of the former Makurazaki (tour of the Sumida Airport No. 1 and No. 2 Preparing coral seedlings Aquarium) Power Plants Lecture held by the OACL staff participating as Planting mangrove trees Kyoto Aquarium United Way volunteers ORIX SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2020 23 Governance Corporate Governance at ORIX ORIX’s approach to corporate governance and its corporate governance framework are explained in detail on the ORIX Group website or in the Integrated Report. This report describes our sustainability governance structure regarding the promotion of sustainability. Corporate Governance Integrated Report Approach to Promoting Sustainability At ORIX, we are focusing on the following in promoting •D  evelop employee awareness: Approach to Sustainability Issues sustainability.  Develop employees’ awareness of the Sustainability • Understand our sustainability priority issues: Policy, and, when necessary, provide guidance on Since our business is diverse, different parts of it could have  Identify and understand priority sustainability how to implement it; develop employee awareness an impact on, or be impacted by, entirely different sets of issues. and knowledge of priority sustainability issues. sustainability issues. As such, our analysis and the responses • Identify and pursue sustainability opportunities: to our priority sustainability issues take a layered approach  Seek out new business opportunities in sustainability consisting of a corporate level and a business unit level. issues, including where collaboration across <Sustainability Approach> business lines could contribute to solving societal problems. Corporate Level Business Unit Level • Identify and manage sustainability-related risks: Applicability Group-wide Specific to each business unit  Introduce analysis of sustainability issues in risk management, both at the Group level and for Executive Committee and respective business Governance Executive Committee individual businesses. unit heads • Engage with our stakeholders: Sustainability Team  Engage with all stakeholders, maintain transparency Sustainability Team Administration Corporate Planning Department Corporate Planning Department in our operations, and adequately consider Sustainability contact at respective business unit stakeholder feedback in our activities; encourage Unifying culture, minimum standards, zero business partners and suppliers to support the Key Terms Tailored approach and ownership tolerance, transparency Sustainability Policy. ORIX SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2020 24 Governance Sustainability Governance Structure Core Principles of Our Sustainability Sustainability Governance Structure The Sustainability Team, which is part of the Corporate Planning Care for the natural environment: Department, reports to and seeks approvals, instructions We measure and minimize our environmental impacts and look to provide solutions to society’s and advice from the Board of Directors, CEO, the Executive environmental issues through our business. Committee, and Executive Officer in charge of Corporate Planning Department on sustainability initiatives. The team coordinates with the various departments within ORIX and Respect human and labor rights: promotes sustainability group-wide. We uphold human and labor rights as defined in international standards such as the Universal Declaration of Human Rights and the International Labour Organization’s Declaration on Fundamental Principles and Rights at Work. Board of Directors Report/ Instruct/ Seek Approval Advise Promote diversity and care for the well-being of our employees: We respect the diversity of our employees and provide opportunities and environments maximizing their professional development. Furthermore, ORIX is committed to respecting the culture, customs and CEO environment of countries and regions where we operate, and positively contributing to those economies Executive Committee and societies. We are also committed to creating safe and secure workplaces where our employees can thrive and where no forms of discrimination are tolerated. Executive Officer in charge of Corporate Planning Department Uphold the highest business ethics: Report/ Instruct/ At all times we conduct our business in accordance with all laws and promote fair competition. This Seek Approval Advise includes rejecting all forms of corruption and bribery, not engaging in unethical transactions, associating with anti-social forces, or engaging in activities that could lead to conflicts of interest. General Manager of Corporate Planning Department Sustainability Team For details of our core principles (In coordination with the various departments within ORIX) ORIX Corporate Sustainability Policy (As of October 31, 2020) ORIX SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2020 25 Governance Sustainability Governance Structure Promotion of Sustainability *1 The Investment and Credit Committee is an executive body composed of senior Embedding Sustainability into ORIX Group managers and Executive Officers responsible for investment and lending; the committee discusses proposals that exceed specified amounts. Messages from the CEO ORIX has addressed social issues and needs through its *2 A proprietary ORIX checklist based on international sustainability guidelines. We have consistently shared the following messages from businesses since its founding. We conduct an array of the CEO to Group officers and employees through New Year’s Business Unit Sustainability Programs Now businesses with the objective of contributing to society as one greetings and online internal communication. under Consideration of our driving motivations. However, we can do more to fully “Sustainability for ORIX Group involves accurately In formulating the business plan for the fiscal year ended clarify this mindset in order to raise the awareness of officers identifying changes in society over the medium and long term March 31, 2021, each business unit considered climate and and employees and share our vision with our stakeholders. and deciding how to address them.” social change to identify events that could affect it over the Therefore, we established the ORIX Corporate Sustainability “Our Sustainability Policy sets the direction for medium-term medium and long term. We then identified potential business Policy in September 2019 to promote sustainability and further management and is a guide for ORIX to continue growing.” opportunities and risks in drafting an action plan and goals for increase the transparency of our initiatives. This policy is the Sustainability Training sustainability. Business units and the Sustainability Team will basis for our approach to sustainability, with specific initiatives We conducted sustainability training geared towards business collaborate in evaluating action plans and aims to finalize them over the past year as follows: units. We also plan to hold SDG-themed training. during the fiscal year. Sustainability Library for Internal Use Investing and Lending Screening We have created a sustainability library on our intranet to First Green Bond*3 Issued (Screening investment and lending from the improve basic understanding of sustainability among Group In January 2020, ORIX issued its first green bond, an unsecured perspective of environment, social, and officers and employees. It provides fundamental knowledge straight bond totaling ¥10 billion. We will use all the proceeds for governance) about sustainability and ORIX’s sustainability initiatives. our solar power generation business. ORIX received a secondORIX established its ORIX Sustainable Investing and Lending party opinion*4 of its green bond eligibility from Sustainalytics, a Policy in September 2019 to promote sustainable investing Dialogue with Shareholders and Investors global third-party ESG assessment company. and lending. This policy is the basis for screening investment ORIX engages in energetic dialogue with its shareholders and ESG requirements are increasing among investors, so interest and lending projects submitted to the Investment and investors. This dialogue has provided additional opportunities in our green bond issue was strong. We will consider future Credit Committee (“ICC”)*1 from an ESG perspective. The for investors and shareholders to ask questions and express green bond issues, which help to diversify our funding base. department raising the project for approval evaluates the opinions regarding ORIX’s sustainability. Interest in this area has *3 Bonds issued by companies and other parties to fund green projects, which project using the Sustainable Investing and Lending Checklist*2 steadily increased and we take this dialogue seriously and use are projects that have a positive effect on the environment such as renewable and includes this checklist in its application materials to the energy, construction and repair of energy-saving structures, and prevention and lessons learned from such dialogue in promoting sustainability management of environmental pollution. ICC. The ICC decides on the project after fully considering internally and in shaping our sustainability disclosure. *4 Second-party opinion from Sustainalytics the environmental and social impact of the project in question and may disallow a matter if it judges that the target company poses environmental or social risks. ORIX SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2020 26 Governance Sustainability Governance Structure We are considering the following initiatives to complement the sustainability programs above. Initiatives by ORIX Corporation USA Founded in 1981 as the investment arm of ORIX analysis can capture remote, less quantifiable risks and Enhanced Sustainability Disclosure Corporation in the Americas, ORIX Corporation USA (“ORIX opportunities that may not be immediately material to a Although ORIX already discloses sustainability information, we USA”) has been successfully serving the middle market company’s value or creditworthiness at that time, but can recognize a need to enhance our disclosure and set Groupsegment with innovative and customized capital solutions be material in the future. wide and business unit level sustainability goals and monitor that have helped clients transform their businesses. At ORIX USA, we believe that a sustainable investment progress towards such goals. We are considering governance Focused on sectors that may be underserved by approach not only benefits society and our communities enhancements to collect sustainability information accurately traditional capital providers, ORIX USA and our subsidiaries but also help us identify value during our investment and speedily in order to further enhance our sustainability have collectively become a leading senior lender to smalldiligence process and allows us to build a deeper level of disclosure. to-medium sized U.S. companies and one of the largest trust and respect with our investors, clients, employees, underwriters of affordable housing mortgages in the U.S. and business partners. As a corporate credit, real estate, and private equity In my view, actively managing ESG risks and pursuing investor and manager, rigorous underwriting and due related sustainable opportunities helps us make smarter diligence are the foundation of ORIX USA’s investment financial decisions and become better stewards of the and portfolio management processes, and we are capital we manage for our shareholders and investors. committed to integrating environmental, social, and We believe that incorporating ESG considerations into governance (“ESG”) factors into our investment and our investment processes will be profitable and beneficial portfolio management processes. for society and our stakeholders. We believe that corporate management teams that can demonstrate strong ESG and sustainability credentials Terry Suzuki are more likely to reduce risks and boost economic Member of the Board of Directors development and financial performance over time. By Senior Managing Executive Officer focusing on a broader group of stakeholders, ESG President and Chief Executive Officer, ORIX Corporation USA ORIX SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2020 27 Governance Business Continuity Planning Response to the COVID-19 Pandemic (Disaster Risk Management System) Japan’s first confirmed case of infection in January 2020 D  aily confirmation of employee health and attendance ORIX’s Basic Disaster Risk Management Rules stipulate prompted ORIX to position COVID-19 as a crisis that requires We use a daily safety confirmation system covering about our response in the case of unforeseen incidents, including a Group-wide response and initiated countermeasures 29,000 full-time, temporary and part-time employees (as of disasters or accidents, including basic tenets, specific Group-wide. When the Japanese government declared September 30, 2020) at ORIX Group companies in Japan to responses and systematic risk management. We define a state of emergency in April 2020, we established the understand their work situation and identify people who have disasters largely as damage from: i) natural phenomena such COVID-19 Headquarters. Since the state of emergency was developed symptoms and missed consecutive days of work. as earthquakes and typhoons; ii) terrorism; iii) accidents; lifted in May 2020, we have been putting the health and Additional measures iv) fires and (v) infectious diseases, and have laid out our safety of our employees first and foremost and are aiming We provide special disaster leave for people with health fundamental responses in a disaster response manual and a to operate responsibly to prevent the spread of COVID-19 issues or who are forced to be on call at home, encourage manual for countering new influenza strains. by referring to the policies of the local governments of the staggered schedules for on-site work, prohibit business areas in which we operate and incorporating the necessary trips, discourage face-to-face meetings and instead We have established systems for confirming the safety and “new normal” lifestyle changes. recommend the use of video conferencing. status of employees if our offices are closed due to an event such as a disaster or the spread of an infectious disease. We Measures for Employees Measures for Customers have also prepared for situations in which working from our Remote work • A ccommodations and aquariums operated by ORIX offices is impossible or inadvisable by introducing systems During February 2020, we recommended remote work Hotel Management and ORIX Aquarium, both wholly that enable employees to work remotely so that our business and from April we required remote work as a rule. The owned by ORIX Real Estate, were closed temporarily due operations are not disrupted. majority of employees at locations both inside and outside to the COVID-19 pandemic. Operations have resumed on As a general matter, we confirm the safety of employees Japan worked remotely, and helped prevent the spread a rolling basis since June 2020 following the formulation in Japanese prefectures affected by an earthquake with of the virus in various ways such as setting up shifts and of our own hygiene guidelines. a seismic intensity of 5 or higher, and conduct safety rotation schedules for employees who had to be on-site • O RIX Auto is operating its rental car and car sharing confirmation training several times per year. We have also set for business purposes. Since May, we continue to work businesses with hygiene measures put in place to up disaster response headquarters at the Osaka head office remotely as much as practicable. prevent the spread of infection. in case damage in the greater Tokyo area incapacitates the In response to the expansion of remote work, we • O R I X L i f e I n s u r a n c e i s p r i o r i t i z i n g p a y m e n t o f Tokyo head office, and we are conducting training in collecting improved the remote work environment by distributing hospitalization benefit claims, among other measures. appropriate information in such a scenario. In addition, each various IT resources including personal computers, • ORIX participates in operating Kansai International Airport, office has a stockpile of food and drinking water for three days smartphones, and communication devices, and swiftly Osaka International Airport and Kobe Airport, which are per employee. expanded virtual private networks (VPN) so that employees implementing an array of counter-infection measures. can access the company intranet from home. ORIX SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2020 28 Governance Business Continuity Planning (Disaster Risk Management System) Business Activities during COVID-19 times. Through these activities, we strive to operate facilities pandemic has created challenges for companies such as that maintain good hygiene so that guests can spend their implementing security countermeasures for information We are committed to contributing to society through our time safely and with peace of mind. leaks from lost personal computers and unauthorized access businesses, even during the COVID-19 pandemic. The to the network, creating a smooth remote communication following are examples from ORIX Hotel Management (within ORIX Rentec environment and structuring systems to manage employees. our real estate business), which is implementing measures Founded in 1976 as the first measuring instrument rental In August 2020, ORIX Rentec launched “Secure Telework designed to prevent infection and allow our staff to continue to company in Japan, ORIX Rentec is an industry leader and Package,” which reduces initial investment by being a rented, provide their services in a safe manner, and from ORIX Rentec one of the largest companies of its kind in Japan, with 32,000 not purchased, service, which pre-installs various functional (within the rental business), which has launched new services types of rental equipment and 2.0 million units (as of March and service solutions on personal computers. This service to address the increased use of telecommuting. 31, 2020). helps customers ranging from large companies to SMEs The increased use of telecommuting due to the COVID-19 create optimal telecommuting environments. ORIX Hotel Management ORIX Hotel Management manages accommodations totaling approximately 5,400 rooms throughout Japan, including 13 hotels and inns under the direct management of the ORIX Hotels & Resorts brand. ORIX implemented its own policies for operations and services in the “new normal” associated with COVID-19, A sticker will be which are based on new lifestyle guidelines issued by the attached to the door to indicate that the room Ministry of Health, Labour and Welfare and other relevant has been cleaned industry organizations. As of September 2020, these policies and sanitized. have been renamed the Cleanliness Policy, setting forth the priority items of (1) hygiene management, (2) avoidance of the “three Cs” (closed spaces, crowded places and close-contact settings) and (3) employee health management. An operation manual has been established at each facility based on the Cleanliness Policy. At the same time, we established the position of hygiene promotion manager. The manager works to promote understanding and dissemination of the manual among employees and confirms that hygiene management is being conducted regularly and according to the manual at all Measures undertaken by ORIX Hotel Management ORIX SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2020 29 Environmental Performance Data ORIX Group CO2 Emission Reduction Contribution Environment and Energy Business (Unit: t-CO2) • Solar Power Generation Total 3,093,400 Reduction calculated from sales of power generated from mega-solar and rooftop solar power • Biomass Power Generation Reduction calculated from sales of power generated from wood chip-fired thermal power stations Solar Power Generation • Wind Power Generation Reduction calculated from sales of power generated from wind power plants 540,900 • Hydropower Generation Reduction calculated from sales of power generated from hydropower plants Total 2,618,500 Biomass Power • Geothermal Power Generation Generation Reduction calculated from sales of power generated from geothermal power plants 43,700 • Electricity Supply CO2 emissions reductions through acquisition of rights to CO2 emission reductions Solar Power from overseas or other companies Generation • ESCO* Services 499,900 Providing ESCO Services reduces CO2 in conjunction with customers’ reduced energy use *Energy Service Company Biomass Power Generation Automobile Business 43,000 Other Business Wind Power Generation Total 1,836,800 1,157,900 Scope and Concept Wind Power [Calculation Period] Generation Solar Power From April 1 to March 31 each fiscal year 739,900 Generation 428,700 [Calculation Scope] Biomass Power ORIX Group Companies both in Japan and overseas Total 1,393,500 Generation (including affiliated companies) Hydropower 46,000 Generationn 88,800 [Basic Concept] Solar Power Generation • Calculations are performed by multiplying the reduced amount of activity 346,900 among customers or society as a whole due to ORIX Group’s business Biomass Power Wind Power Generation Generation activities by a CO2 emission factor. Total 969,600 47,800 573,100 • For calculation of business activities in Japan, in principle the emission Biomass Power Solar Power factor we use is “alternate value” under the Greenhouse Gas Emissions Generation Generation Geothermal Geothermal 48,800 177,600 Power Power Accounting, Reporting, and Disclosure System (Act on Promotion of Global Generation Generation Warming Countermeasures) Wind Power Electricity Supply Generation 1,073,600 949,500 ESCO Services 31,500 Emission factor ESCO Services 600,900 ESCO Services ESCO Services 67,000 93,700 Geothermal 93,500 FY2016.3: 0.000579t-CO2/kWh FY2019.3: 0.000500t-CO2/kWh 49,500 Power Electricity Generation ESCO Services FY2017.3: 0.000587t-CO2/kWh FY2020.3: 0.000488t-CO2/kWh Supply 100,800 544,700 FY2018.3: 0.000512t-CO2/kWh 565,400 Other Environment Other Environment Electricity Other Environment • For calculation of overseas business activities, in principle we use the Other Environment and Energy Business and Energy Business Other Environment and and Energy Business Supply and Energy Business Energy Business 190,000 700 800 emission factors from each country. 300 100 3,400 • Calculations also include CO 2 reduction credits redeemed during the Other Business Other Business Other Business Other Business Automobile Automobile Automobile Other Business Automobile calculation period after being acquired by ORIX Group. Automobile Business 10,300 7,700 10,800 Business Business 10,100 Business Business 9,100 114,800 130,300 142,200 157,000 171,100 • We calculate CO2 reduction from affiliated companies according to our FY2016.3 FY2017.3 FY2018.3 FY2019.3 FY2020.3 shareholding. ORIX SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2020 30 ORIX Group CO2 Emissions Scope 1 (Volume of direct emissions) (Unit: t-CO2) Combustion of fuels including crude oil, diesel, Total 1,254,467 gasoline, city gas, coal, biomass and waste Scope 2 (Volume of indirect emissions from energy use) Use of electricity and heat (steam, cold water, hot water) Scope 3 (Volume of other indirect emissions) Downstream transportation and distribution (Emissions related to transportation by ORIX Rentec’s rental equipment) Total 1,056,814 Items subject to third-party assurance Scope and Method [Calculation Period] From April 1 to March 31 each fiscal year [Calculation Scope] Consolidated ORIX Group companies in Japan (excluding investees in principal investment business) [Calculation Method] • C O 2 emissions are calculated based on the “Ministerial Ordinance 1,138,566 Concerning Calculation of Greenhouse Gas Emissions Associated with Business Activities of Specified Emitters.” Scope 1&2 • CO2 emissions, including CO2 from non-energy sources, methane (CH4), Total 907,345 1,251,010 and dinitrogen monoxide (N2O), are calculated based on company rules concerning the management of environmental information. Scope 1&2 • E ffective emission factor of electric power supplier based on GHG Total 1,053,814 Emissions Accounting, Reporting, and Disclosure System is used for the emission factor relating to the use of electricity. * Emissions from coal-biomass co-fired power plants Total 407,220 ORIX operates two coal-biomass co-fired power plants in Japan. One is Total 387,051 Total 395,611 Soma Coal and Biomass Power Plant in Soma City, Fukushima Prefecture, which started operations in April 2018. The other is Hibikinada Coal and Biomass Power Plant in Kitakyushu City, Fukuoka Prefecture, which started operations in December 2018. Total generating capacity of each 235,780 225,599 235,249 power plant is 112MW. Emissions from these two plants for the fiscal year ended March 2020 was 939,163t-CO2. At these two plants, biomass is mixed with coal to account for more than 30% of the total amount of Scope 1&2 Scope 1&2 Scope 1&2 fuel. This helps reduce CO2 emissions compared with emissions from Total Total Total coalfired power plants in the same class and contributes to lessening the 404,220 392,711 384,251 burden on the environment. 168,441 158,652 157,463 146,469 Third-Party Assurance 112,444 3,000 2,800 2,900 3,000 3,457 ORIX receives third-party assurance of its figures for direct emissions and indirect emissions from energy use FY2016.3 FY2017.3 FY2018.3 FY2019.3 FY2020.3 from PricewaterhouseCoopers Sustainability LLC. See the website below for details. Third-Party Assurance ORIX SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2020 31 Personnel-related Data Employee Composition March 2016 March 2017 March 2018 March 2019 March 2020 (Number of Employees) Total Number of Employees 33,333 34,835 31,890 32,411 31,233 By Segment Corporate Financial Services and Maintenance Leasing 4,861 4,980 5,104 5,384 5,637 Real Estate 9,525 9,911 10,559 9,894 8,599 PE Investment and Concession 5,768 6,516 2,884 3,291 3,081 Environment and Energy 726 569 557 620 592 Insurance 1,549 1,795 2,016 2,336 2,363 Banking and Credit 908 947 1,031 1,066 1,103 Aircraft and Ships 76 89 114 127 149 ORIX USA 1,264 1,202 1,023 1,181 1,433 ORIX Europe 1,275 1,290 1,329 1,357 1,301 Asia and Australia 5,550 5,701 5,347 5,107 4,892 Corporate 1,831 1,835 1,926 2,048 2,083 By Region Japan 25,168 26,553 24,077 24,639 23,458 Outside of Japan* 8,165 8,282 7,813 7,772 7,775 By Gender Male 23,160 23,731 20,443 20,491 19,630 Female 10,173 11,104 11,447 11,920 11,603 * Total of four segments (Aircraft and Ships, ORIX USA, ORIX Europe and Asia and Australia) Composition of Executives Average age Average years of service Annual paid leave taken and Employees Overall 43.4 years old Overall 15.3 years Average days of paid leave taken 15.1 days (Fiscal year ended March 2020) Men 44.9 years old Men 15.5 years Average percentage of days 80.6% Women 41.3 years old Women 15.0 years taken out of days earned Note: Average age, average years of service, and average annual paid leave taken are for ORIX Corporation employees only. Directors and Executive Officers are not included. ORIX SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2020 32 Female Employees in Managerial Positions Number and Percentages of New Employees Use of Childbirth and (ORIX Group Companies*) Childcare-related Systems 25.3% (451) FY2018.3 FY2019.3 FY2020.3 33.6% 1,562 16.1% New Employees Total 710 employees 783 employees 741 employees (198) 22.1% (767) Male new graduate recruits 91 employees 107 employees 123 employees 17.5% Female new graduate 681 12.1% 123 employees 144 employees 130 employees (312) recruits An increase by approx. 2.3 times Male mid-career recruits 248 employees 246 employees 276 employees 2010/3/31 2020/3/31 2010/3/31 2020/3/31 Female mid-career recruits 248 employees 286 employees 212 employees ORIX Corporation ORIX Group*1 Number of working mothers Percentage of female employees who are working mothers *1 T  otal of 10 ORIX Group companies: ORIX, ORIX Rentec, ORIX Auto, ORIX Credit, ORIX Percentage of female recruits 52% 55% 46% Real Estate, ORIX Computer Systems, ORIX Bank, ORIX Life Insurance, ORIX Eco Services and ORIX Asset Management & Loan Services. Total number of employees at Percentage of mid-career these 10 companies as of March 31, 2020 was 10,717, which was 34% of all employees. 70% 68% 66% 5.6% 5.6% recruits *2 T  he percentages in “Female Employees in Managerial Positions” represent the ratio of female managers to the total number of managers. Note: Total of 10 ORIX Group companies: ORIX, ORIX Rentec, ORIX Auto, ORIX Credit, 261 *3 M  anagerial positions are section leaders and other positions with work and responsibilities equivalent to section leader or above, regardless of job title or subordinate staff (does not ORIX Real Estate, ORIX Computer Systems, ORIX Bank, ORIX Life Insurance, ORIX Eco 217 include entry-level managers). Services and ORIX Asset Management & Loan Services. External Recognition An increase by approx. 1.2 times Certified as a “New Diversity Management Selection 100” Certified as a “Semi-Nadeshiko Brand” by the Ministry of Company by the Ministry of Economy, Trade and Industry Economy, Trade and Industry and the Tokyo Stock Exchange 2010/3/31 2020/3/31 On March 16, 2020, ORIX Corporation was ORIX Corporation was selected as a “Semi-Nadeshiko Number of employees who took childcare leave certified as a “New Diversity Management Brand” by the Ministry of Economy, Trade and Percentage of female employees who took childcare leave Selection 100” company for 2020. This certification Industry and the Tokyo Stock Exchange on March 3, recognizes enterprises that engage in diversity 2020. This is the category just below the “Nadeshiko 10.2% management to empower diverse human Brand” category. Companies are selected from among 474 resources and show successful business results. approximately 3,600 listed companies for their encouragement of women’s success in the workplace. ORIX has been selected as a “Semi-Nadeshiko Brand” for two Certified as a “Health & Productivity Management Organization consecutive years. 4.8% 2020” by the Ministry of Economy, Trade and Industry 188 On March 2, 2020, ORIX Corporation was named in Highest-Level “Eruboshi” Certification from the Ministry of An increase by approx. 2.5 times the “Large Enterprise Category” of the “Certified Health, Labour and Welfare Health & Productivity Management Organization On May 27, 2019, ORIX Corporation obtained the highest 2010/3/31 2020/3/31 Recognition Program” for 2020. This certification level “Eruboshi (Grand 3)” company certification based Number of employees who used the short-time recognizes corporations that value their employees’ on the Act on Promotion of Woman’s Participation and working scheme Percentage of female employees who used the short-time health and strategically work to promote health from a Advancement in the Workplace. The “Eruboshi” company working scheme management perspective. ORIX has been certified in the “Large Enterprise Category” certification is granted to companies with a high level of Note: The information given in the tables above relates to fullof the “Certified Health & Productivity Management Organization Recognition implementation of activities related to the promotion of time female employees of 10 ORIX Group companies: ORIX, ORIX Rentec, ORIX Auto, ORIX Credit, ORIX Real Estate, ORIX Program” for four consecutive years since the certification’s start in 2017. women’s success. Companies that meet all five criteria in Computer Systems, ORIX Bank, ORIX Life Insurance, ORIX the areas of recruitment, continued employment, working hours, proportion of women Eco Services and ORIX Asset Management & Loan Services. in managerial positions and diversified career courses are selected for Grand 3. ORIX SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2020 33 Governance-related Data Number of Meetings, FY2016.3 FY2017.3 FY2018.3 FY2019.3 FY2020.3 Attendance Rate and Number of Meetings 8 8 8 8 9 Composition of Board Attendance Rate 97% 98% 98% 97% 96% of Directors Number of Directors 13 12 12 12 12 Number of Outside Directors 6 6 6 6 6 Percentage of Outside Directors 46% 50% 50% 50% 50% Female Directors 1 1 1 2 2 Percentage of Female Directors 8% 8% 8% 17% 17% Number of Meetings, FY2016.3 FY2017.3 FY2018.3 FY2019.3 FY2020.3 Attendance Rate of Nominating Committee: Number of Meetings 3 3 3 3 5 Committee Meetings Nominating Committee: Attendance Rate 89% 94% 94% 94% 95% Audit Committee: Number of Meetings 10 8 9 8 8 Audit Committee: Attendance Rate 98% 100% 94% 100% 96% Compensation Committee: Number of Meetings 5 3 5 4 6 Compensation Committee: Attendance Rate 92% 93% 100% 100% 100% Compensation of Directors, Fixed Compensation Performance-linked Compensation Share Component of Compensation Total Amount Executive Officers and Number of Amount Paid Number of Amount Paid Number of Amount Paid Paid (Millions of yen) Group Executives Recipients (Millions of yen) Recipients (Millions of yen) Recipients (Millions of yen) (FY2020.3) Directors (Outside Directors) 8 (8) 94 (94) — — 8 (8) 14 (14) 109 (109) Executive Officers and Group Executives 34 655 34 280 34 465 1,401 Total 42 750 34 280 42 479 1,510 *1 Number of recipients and amounts paid in the table above include two Directors, *3 T he targets and results with regard to the KPIs of the performance-linked *4 The amount of share component of compensation paid in the table above is five Executive Officers (including those serving concurrently as Directors and compensation listed in the table above are as follows: calculated by multiplying the number of points confirmed to be provided as the Executive Officers) and four Group Executives, who retired during FY2020.3. • Company-wide performance indicator: We targeted the milestone rate with portion for FY2020.3 by the stock market price paid by the trust when ORIX’s There were a total of 12 Directors (including six Outside Directors), 20 Executive regard to the consolidated net income growth set by the Compensation shares were acquired (¥1,594.7 per share). The total amount of share component Officers (including those serving concurrently as Directors and Executive Officers) Committee towards the achievement of the Company’s mid-term strategic of compensation actually paid in FY2020.3 is ¥572 million for two Directors and and five Group Executives as of March 31, 2020. directions, and achieved 90%. four Executive Officers (including those serving concurrently as Directors and *2 A t ORIX, no Directors serving concurrently as Executive Officers received • Division performance indicator: We set the target growth rate for each division Executive Officers) who retired during FY2020.3, and two Executive Officers who compensation as Directors. Total compensation for the eight people serving based on the company-wide performance target, and achieved 0% to 135% retired before the end of FY2019.3. concurrently as Directors and Executive Officers is shown in the Executive (median: 90%) by 25 Executive Officers (based on the total evaluation including *5 ORIX did not provide stock options in the form of stock acquisition rights in Officers and Group Executives line. qualitative assessment). FY2020.3. *6 Figures shown are rounded down by truncating figures of less than ¥1 million. ORIX SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2020 34 Initiatives We Support ORIX Group or individual Group companies support the initiatives below. (As of October 2020) Participating/Member/Supporting Companies Name (Initial year of participation/membership/support) UN Global Compact ORIX Group (2014) PRI (Principles for Responsible Investment) Robeco (2011) UNEP FI (UN Environment Programme Finance Initiative) Robeco, ORIX Asset Management (2020) TCFD (Task Force on Climate-related Financial Disclosures) Robeco, ORIX Asset Management (2019), ORIX Group (2020) Principles for Financial Action for the 21st Century ORIX, ORIX Bank (2011), ORIX Asset Management (2019) Japan Climate Leaders’ Partnership (JCLP) ORIX Group (2014) Kansai SDGs Platform ORIX Facilities (2015), ORIX Baseball Club, ORIX, ORIX Bank (2019) SDGs for Regional Revitalization Public-Private Partnership Platform ORIX Facilities (2015) Inclusion in ESG Indices As of October 2020, ORIX is included in the ESG indices below. • MSCI Japan ESG Select Leaders Index • MSCI Japan Empowering Women Index (WIN) • S&P/JPX Carbon Efficient Index ORIX SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2020 35 ORIX Corporation Corporate Planning Department World Trade Center Bldg., 2–4–1 Hamamatsu-cho, Minato–ku, Tokyo 105–6135, Japan Tel: +81–3–3435–3121 Fax: +81–3–3435–3154 URL: https://www.orix.co.jp/grp/en/ For inquiries about this Sustainability Report, please contact us at the address above.
