Koç Group Sustainability Report 2019 Contents 3 About the Report 4 Ömer M. Koç / Chairperson’s Letter 35 Act for the planet. Together 5 Levent Çakıroğlu / CEO’s Letter 38 Climate Change 6 Koç Group At a Glance 39 Improving our Energy Efficiency 7 Our Manifesto 40 Managing Water Risks 9 Pathway to Lead. Together 41 In Practice: Addressing Climate Change Impacts 11 Delivering the UN Sustainable Development Goals 42 Waste Management 43 In Practice: Business Plastics Initiative 12 Grow the business. Together 44 In Practice: Circular Economy and Tackling Plastic Wastes 14 Digital Transformation 45 Biodiversity 16 In Practice: KoçDigital & KoçDigital Academy 17 In Practice: BotGen & Yapı Kredi Bank Whatsapp Service 46 Strengthen communities. Together 18 Privacy and Cybersecurity 47 Strengthen Communities. Together 19 Innovation 48 In Practice: For My Country: I Design the Future 20 Koç Innovation Program 49 In Practice: Investing in 21st Century Skills in Vocational Training 21 In Practice: Office-Free Renting 50 Gender Equality 22 Suppliers and Distributors 51 In Practice: Partnering with HeForShe Impact 10x10x10 Initiative 23 Empower people. Together 52 Corporate Governance and Risk Management 25 Koç Group Employees in 2019 54 Sustainability Governance across Koç Group 26 Future Talent 57 Making It Happen with Stakeholders 27 Talent Management 61 Materiality Analysis 29 In Practice: Personal Development Program 63 Performance Indicators 30 In Practice: Agile Transformation 63 Social Performance Indicators 31 Diversity and Inclusion 64 Environmental Performance Indicators 32 In Practice: AI Female Talent 65 GRI Content Index 33 Performance Management 34 Health and Safety Koç Group Sustainability Report 2019 2 About the Report Our 2019 Sustainability Report is prepared to share our indicators. In the Report, we also share our contribution ESG performance with our stakeholders. The sustainability to the Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs) within the performance of Koç Group, including our subsidiaries, framework of global agenda. Arçelik, Aygaz, Entek, Ford Otosan, Koç Information Group , * Opet, Otokar, Otokoç Otomotiv, Tat Gıda, Tofaş, Tüpraş, The scope of the Report is between the dates of January TürkTraktör and Yapı Kredi, is disclosed in the Report. The 1, 2019 and December 31, 2019. In order to demonstrate scope of the Report covers 72% of employees and 84.2% comparative results, we indicate our performance of the combined revenues. Group-wide initiatives and best from previous years, where necessary. Additionally, practices from Koç Group companies are put forward in the developments in line with our sustainability approach Report in addition to the sustainability data . ** and our future plans are covered in the Report. We are committed to disclose our sustainability performance This report has been prepared in accordance with the GRI annually. Standards: Core option. In the report our sustainability performance is linked with United Nations Global Compact For your inquiries, opinions and suggestions regarding the (UNGC) and Women Empowerment Principles (WEPs) report, please contact us via sustainability@koc.com.tr 102-45 / 102-46 / 102-49 * Koç Information Group does not represent a legal entity, but a common name for KoçSistem and Bilkom all of which are Koç Group companies. Within this report, unless otherwise stated, all performance and practice related information disclosed regarding Koç Information Group consists of the shared data and practices of these enterprises. ** The data disclosed throughout the Sustainability Report 2019 includes performance of 13 Group companies, whereas the previous reports of 2017 and 2018 covered 12 companies. This figures for the years of 2017 and 2018 are updated in accordance with the new scope. Koç Group Sustainability Report 2019 3 Chairperson’s Letter Dear Stakeholders, We are experiencing a turbulent period during which Thus, we renew our commitment to the UN Global the Covid-19 pandemic has wreaked havoc with our Compact Principles and collaborate at scale to society and economy. Clearly the global economy is accelerate progress towards the UN Sustainable facing a massive challenge that generates fluctuations Development Goals. Our sustainability approach, Lead. and uncertainties, whose effects will be felt in the years Together shapes our business strategy and activities. to come. The world has been struggling with the complex consequences of the climate crisis and growing social In 2019, we were able to realize our goals regarding inequalities over the last decade. The pandemic, in the Lead. Together, focusing on digital transformation, blink of an eye, revealed the importance of multilateral innovation, future talent, diversity and inclusion to create solutions to growing challenges to the resilience of our and to share value with and for all our stakeholders. businesses. Furthermore, we intend to strengthen our commitment, where integrating sustainability is key to our adaptation As also articulated by the World Economic Forum, we for a better and prosperous future for us all. acknowledge that stakeholder capitalism is the key to In 2019, we were generate stronger financial figures, while progressing I would like to thank all our stakeholders, notably our able to realize our towards long-term aspirations such as addressing the employees, suppliers and distributors for enabling us goals regarding Lead. climate change crisis or reducing inequalities. At Koç to meet our targets and narrate our progress in this Group, we are mindful of the critical role our business sustainability report. Together, focusing on plays in supporting Turkey’s economic growth as well digital transformation, as to improving the livelihoods of millions of people. In Sincerely and respectfully, innovation, future talent, different countries and sectors in which we operate, diversity and inclusion we aim to create shared value with our stakeholders Ömer M. Koç and contribute to their well-being through employment, Chairperson to create and to share products and services and corporate citizenship. value with and for all our stakeholders. Koç Group Sustainability Report 2019 4 CEO’s Letter Dear Stakeholders, The eruption of the COVID-19 pandemic at the beginning In 2019, our ESG progress was supported by digital of 2020 is likely to affect both businesses and society, transformation, technology and innovation. Ford Otosan deeply and fundamentally. During this time, critical Gölcük and Arçelik Romania plants have joined the trends including the climate crisis, digital fragmentation World Economic Forum Global Lighthouse Network, and inequalities exacerbate the impact of this which brings together leading manufacturers that humanitarian and economic crisis on vulnerable groups. generate additional value through state-of-the-art Today, we observe that businesses that manage financial technologies. Another achievement was our advanced and non-financial risks together are more resilient to position in the employer survey of Forbes, which ranked the current crisis, which further strengthens the role of us 35th in World’s Best Employer. Last but not least, we environmental, social and governance factors in the announced our group wide commitment to end singlefuture of businesses. use plastics in consumption and took a leading role in the Business Plastics Initiative to inspire a greater impact As Koç Holding, we are committed to increasing our ESG among the business community. This report is prepared performance continuously, while improving our dialogue to provide further information on our achievements as with key stakeholders to reflect their expectations on our well as our ESG disclosures. strategies. We aim to advance our efforts and fulfil these As Koç Holding, we are expectations via Lead. Together, our sustainable and I sincerely thank our stakeholders, notably our people, committed to increasing profitable growth approach. who have contributed to our success and established partnerships in order to spread our influence for the our ESG performance The Lead.Together manifesto, under the framework of better. continuously, while which we guide our actions, ensures that four main pillars improving our dialogue “business, people, planet and communities” provide the I believe that we will overcome these challenging times with key stakeholders to foundation of our structured programmes, which enables through cooperation and solidarity. us to advance our strategic priority areas of digital reflect their expectations transformation, innovation, future talent, diversity and Levent Çakıroğlu on our strategies. inclusion and climate change. CEO Koç Group Sustainability Report 2019 5 93,000 Employees 12.5 million Customers 11,000 4 main dealers and after-sales service points business areas Exporting to more than 150 countries • Energy • Automotive • Consumer Durables 9% of Turkey's private sector R&D expenditure • Finance 9% of Turkey's total exports Revenues equivalent to 8% of Turkey's GDP Koç Group Sustainability Report 2019 6 Lead. Together is a journey. And our potential is huge. Our Manifesto Lead. Together is our approach for sustainable, profitable Lead. Together reflects the difference we can make growth at Koç Group. It sets a framework for making across Koç Group and our commitment to partnership. collective progress and helps us harness the power of our The expectations of our stakeholders inspire us to make network to drive positive change. We believe sustainability a difference and the diverse abilities of our people mean is directly connected to our business growth, and to our we can bring our promise to life. We are progressing unique role in society, which drives us to inspire others and collectively across the board. develop every person and organization we engage with. Lead. Together is a journey. And our potential is huge. Lead. Together means we will innovate and collaborate to find solutions to big, complex issues. It means we will be a positive role model that drives change in society. It means we will act bravely to transform our business for the better. Koç Group Sustainability Report 2019 7 Our founder Vehbi Koç once said that our prosperity is connected to the prosperity of our country. Our aspiration to become a global leader means elevating Vehbi Koç’s vision to a global scale. We believe our prosperity is connected to the prosperity of our country and the World we live and work in. Our heritage, Grow the business. Together Empower people. Together our future. Act for the planet. Together Strengthen communities. Together Koç Group Sustainability Report 2019 8 Pathway to Lead. Together With Koç Group’s global vision and evolving sustainability In addition to the internal workshops and interviews, a agenda driven by UN Sustainable Development Goals qualitative external stakeholder research was conducted. (SDGs), our sustainability approach was formed. Our main Stakeholder opinions were included into the process, in purpose is to maximize Koç Holding’s impact by focusing order to ensure the existence of stakeholders’ vision and on cross-cutting issues, to manage sustainability risks and expectations in the way we approach to sustainability. opportunities effectively, to guide Koç Group companies to lead sustainability in their respective business areas. Koç Group Sustainability Guide which was developed to enable standardization of sustainability management across Lead. Together and its focus areas are a result of an the Group. In order to effectively implement this guide, we iterative process that includes cross-functional teams from organized workshops with participation of a wide range of Group companies, senior management across different experts from the Group companies. The Guide provides industries, external stakeholders and opinion leaders. direction firstly on defining how to manage material issues and focus areas, stakeholder integration, performance management as well as standards on best practices. In accordance with the Sustainability Guide, each Group company held cross-functional workshops to determine We launched the processes by organizing preliminary the material issues and 5 focus areas for their respective workshops with 12 Group companies that represent companies. As a result, each item covered in this section, the major operations of our business, to get a better were consolidated and presented to the final approval of understanding on the status of sustainability management Koç Holding’s senior management. 5 of key issues and their across the Group. Different functions like human resources related SDGs were prioritized under 4 focus areas which (HR), environment, corporate communications, supply formed our new sustainability framework, Lead. Together. chain and innovation participated in these workshops. Following the workshops, we conducted 20 semi-structured Our material issues were reviewed and validated in 2019, interviews with Group companies’ General Managers prior to publishing Sustainability Report 2018, considering and other members of senior management to identify stakeholders opinions, external trends and risks, global and the material areas to focus regarding sustainability. Initial local policies and Group strategy. For further details, you findings revealed the need to have a holistic approach may refer to the Materiality Analysis section of the report. to manage sustainability issues since each function or department focused on their own expertise area. 102-47 / 102-49 Koç Group Sustainability Report 2019 9 Pathway to Lead. Together 102-47 / 102-49 Koç Group Sustainability Report 2019 10 Delivering the UN Sustainable Development Goals The United Nations Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs) Financial Services, Energy, Durable Goods and Automotive. offer a global agenda from the public sector to the business The report highlights how our sustainability framework world. The SDGs addresses the global challenges related Lead. Together guides us to deliver the SDGs through to poverty, inequality, climate change, prosperity, peace our sustainability commitments. All Group companies, and justice. At Koç Holding, we believe that the business representing over a half million people, need to seize our needs to contribute to these goals as a driver for innovation approach to SDGs and the implications to their industries. and generator of economic growth. Our sustainability To have a common ground, we held an SDG workshop with framework Lead. Together ensures that we are positioned Group companies, where we discussed our sustainability to contribute to the solutions for sustainable development. model and the interrelation with Lead. Together and the Besides, we are aware of the fact that the SDGs also could SDGs. open up several opportunities for the private sector. We will continue to create value through our business We published a report to reveal the implications of the model, and our products and services. However, we know SDGs on our business and our opportunities to contribute. that collaborative action plays a very important role in In the report The Sustainable Development Goals and achieving the SDGs. We urge governments, civil societies Their Implications on Business, we showed the key mega and peers to realize the SDGs together. trends and their impact on our main industries, which are 102-47 / 102-49 Grow the business. Together Empower people. Together Act for the planet. Together Strengthen communities. Together Koç Group Sustainability Report 2019 11 Grow the business. Together Grow the business. Together Aiming for sustainable, profitable growth Growth is good for us, and good for society Our aim is to create a business that delivers sustainable, We believe our prosperity is connected to the prosperity of profitable growth. Our vision shows that this growth the world; we only reach our goals if we align with changes will come through expanding our global presence and in society, the environment, technology and business. establishing brands that have a competitive edge, wherever Sustainability means using our potential to its fullest by we do business. We will succeed by developing business developing products and services that meet the pressing models that are flexible, efficient and focused on creating needs and expectations of society. long-term value. Our stakeholders expect us to lead by example. When we Taking the lead with innovation, technology and our grow, others grow. When we innovate for the better, others brands follow. When we create more added value and respond to changes in technology, business and society, we trigger Our technology, innovation capability and brand assets are a ripple effect that extends out to all our industries, our key to our success and they will be vital tools for the future. business partners and the wider community. Our influence extends far beyond the businesses and brands we manage. Through our long-term relationships At the Koç Group, we aim to maintain our pioneering with employees, partners, investors, suppliers and position by leading change. In this path, digital distributors we have an opportunity to drive positive change transformation and innovation are our strategic priorities to on an international scale. As an investor, we “create longseize current and potential opportunities and SDGs serve term shared value through the decisions and investments as a driver into inclusive economic growth. we make. Koç Group Sustainability Report 2019 13 Digital Transformation Digital technologies are dramatically reshaping sectors and • Digital Marketing and Customer Experience: The main changing the way we interact with each other and with the objective of Group Companies is to offer products world. New technologies present new approaches and and services aligned with the customer’s needs and opportunities for businesses. Believing that the leaders of preferences at the right time, through the right channel the digital world will be the leaders of the future we change and at right conditions via a completely new experience. how we deliver value to our customers and wider society We evaluate data in both digital and physical world to and make use of the revolutionary effect digital has over understand the customer’s need and expectations better industries. and improve the customer experience. Digital transforms customer experience and enables to • Digital Supply Chain and Manufacturing: The core serve customers better, faster, with a customized approach. business of nearly half of the Group companies is It makes production processes more efficient and leaner, manufacturing; therefore improving all processes enables increased employee participation and creativity including products, services and designs a vital part of and opens up opportunities for new products and business the Program. Beyond traditional automation and robot models. usage, The Group’s manufacturing companies utilize opportunities offered by the “Industry 4.0” technologie Digital Transformation Program while working to bring the suppliers to the same level. The Koç Digital Transformation Program launched in 2016 • Digital Lean Workplace: The aim is to enable employees aims to radically transform products, services and business to focus on more value added activities with digital processes and build the digital skills required to implement technologies by ensuring the processes other than and improve digitalization. The Program is an integral part of manufacturing are lean. This contributes to the success the annual and long-term plans of all Group companies and of the Group companies by not only increasing in its fourth year the project continue to gain momentum in efficiency but also improving employee satisfaction. line with the long term strategic plans. Digital Transformation Group Wide Supportive Cultural Transformation The Digital Transformation Program includes a wide range of Themes Activities projects but the main topics concentrate on digital marketing and customer experience, digital supply chain and Digital Marketing and Customer Experience Data and Analytics Awareness and Communication manufacturing and digital lean workplace. There had been a Digital Supply Chain Competency Development total of 640 projects, of which 400 had been completed. and Manufacturing Industry 4.0 Digital Lean Workplace Digital New Initiatives Teamwork and Governance Koç Group Sustainability Report 2019 14 Digital Transformation In addition to projects in our main themes, key topics • Competency Development: We continue different such as data and analytics, Industry 4.0 and digital new training programs at full speed. We provided; initiatives are managed across several Group companies • Online programs on data analytics, programming, under the leadership of Koç Holding. digital marketing, autonomous vehicles and machine learning offered by Udacity and on • Data and Analytics: To enhance data driven strategy and leadership from the Harvard Business decision making and doing business, Group School Online. companies extensively use advanced data and analytics technologies. Established to drive the digital • “Personal Development Program” for senior transformation within Koç Group, KoçDigital has executives to develop their leadership competence become a key partner for both Group companies and and vision for the digital world. other companies for data analytics, image processing • The “Post Graduate in Digital Business” education and the Internet of Things solutions. program developed by the Massachusetts Institute of Technology (MIT) and the Columbia Business • Industry 4.0: An Industry 4.0 working group consisting School. of 12 managers from manufacturing companies within the Group focus on to increase efficiency in production • “Digital transformation-oriented online education by closely following the emerging technologies. programs which are offered by the Columbia Business School, the MIT Sloan, the University • Digital New Initiatives: Inventram the technology of Oxford, the London School of Economics, the investment company of Koç Holding evaluates and University of Cambridge and the University of invests in start-ups with new digital ideas. Berkeley. A Group-wide cultural transformation is an essential part • The Modular MBA Technology and Innovation of the Program. Digital transformation leaders, teams and Management Specialization Program by Koç steering committees are the champions of the Program and University, which is focused on the subjects drive the change throughout the organization. required by digital world and geared towards the employees working in engineering. • Awareness and Communication: We launched the next generation interaction and communication platform “KoçHub”. The digital transformation activities started to be shared on one platform which is open to all employees. Koç Group Sustainability Report 2019 15 Digital Transformation In Practice: KoçDigital & KoçDigital Academy KoçDigital also supports the digital transformation program of Koç Group as the Group companies are focusing on marketing, sales, production or supply projects that requires big data and advanced analytical solutions. KoçDigital started developing new digital products and IP’s in IoT and advanced analytics areas while implementing commercial projects for industry. In IoT area; Platform360 has been developed as an industrial IoT platform including Manufacturing Execution System (MES), Manufacturing Information System (MIS), Assembly Management System (ASM) and Remote Asset Monitoring (RAM). These product modules have been implemented at Ford Otosan, Demir Export, Arçelik LG, North Iraqi RT Telekom. Ford Otosan joined the World Economic Forum’s Lighthouse Network following the Ford KoçDigital, KoçDigital Otosan MIS Project. established by KoçSistem In the field of advanced analytics, state-of-the-art solutions have been developed and in partnership with Boston integrated into the customers’ existing processes to bring sustainable operations. For instance, demand forecasting, network optimisation, stock, promo and material optimisation Consulting Group (BCG) projects have been implemented for Arçelik, Koçtaş, Tüpraş, Otokoç and Tat. Additionaly, focuses on IoT and advanced in artificial intelligence; smart worksafe with video analytics product have been developed. analytics to create solutions The digital transformation of the companies will only be sustainable if digitalization and improvement is continuous. KoçDigital also provides trainings for digital skills required to for businesses. The services implement and manage digital projects with Koç Digital Academy. The aim is to invest in human capital and bring the global know-how and expertise to Turkey. This will enable us to include product innovation, contribute to the future of the country and to create a value-added economy. operations & supply chain KoçDigital Academy assumes the mission of developing the digital competencies of projects that enables Industry KoçDigital employees and its customers. In this condition, 5 employees received abroad training and 80 employees received more than 100 trainings. The Academy also designed 4.0, sales & marketing projects KoçDigital Data & Analytics for Business Program for business professionals from Koc Group and other companies. The program, in which nearly 100 participants graduated is Koç that enhance customer University and BCG experts share their expertise in online & class trainings and participants management. implement real time projects during the Program. This program aims to train participants on data and analytics topics, helping them to bridge the business with technical perspectives and to accelerate analytical transformation at their organizations. Koç Group Sustainability Report 2019 16 Digital Transformation In Practice: BotGen & Yapı Kredi Bank Whatsapp Service Yapı Kredi developed a The use of artificial intelligence (AI) is spreading at a high speed, especially with the contribution of private industries in areas such platform that produces 100% as sales, technical support, or customer relationship management. in-house Bot to efficiently use One of the important developments in AI is the improvements in chatbots in different areas. The dialogue systems and chatbots. BotGen application launched The BotGen platform not only provides 24/7 customer service by in 2019 is an AI supported answering questions and making calculations, but also serves platform that enables the existing and potential customers in various channels such as human resources, customer relationship management and production and management technical support to increase operational efficiency within the of chatbots for different organization. While natural language processing techniques are areas and channels without used to understand customer messages in free text format without the need for coding. With its human supervision and to extract relevant information, current deep learning algorithms are preferred for identifying subjects of natural language processing customer messages. and advanced analytical capabilities, it does not require Today, 75% of the customer meetings on the Whatsapp channel start and end with a bot. With the launch of the bot, 2 million coding knowledge, it enables customer messages were answered in a year which helped to the business units to create, test reduce the workload of the representatives. The application has and use the dialogue models also received many national and international awards such as Stevie Awards and IDC. suitable for their needs. It also supports the creation of bots for As the next step, R&D will continue for identifying methods that different sectors and areas with will understand the documents and information sets of chatbots in order to respond to messages on previously undefined topics. its generalizable structure. Koç Group Sustainability Report 2019 17 Privacy and Cybersecurity Rapid digitalization brings also the increased risk of Koç Group IT Security Committee is responsible for setting cybercrime. According to the World Economic Forum security policies, evaluating new threats and reducing risk Global Risks Report cyberattacks are among the top 10 of intrusion, loss of data integrity and compliance violations. risks with high-impact and high likelihood. Data breaches Both IT Committee and IT Security Committee are chaired cause not only financial loss but also important damage to by senior executives. We work towards compliance with reputation. all relevant requirements and legislations on cybersecurity and privacy. We perform annual audits for each Group As Koç Group is accelerating its efforts on digital Company based on globally recognized frameworks transformation, we also give high importance to privacy (i.e. COBIT, ISO27001, CIS 20 etc.) and Koç Group IT and cybersecurity while preparing the companies for the Standards. Audit and maturity assessment results are digital future. It is very important that our customers know presented to the CEO. we will keep their data safe and process it according to legislations. Beside the Koç Group policies and guidelines every company implement safeguards to protect the data of its We manage cybersecurity and data privacy in line with stakeholders. Every company is responsible for developing our Group Policy on Protection and Processing of Personal and implementing an IT continuity and disaster recovery Data. In addition to this, each Group company has its strategy. Cyber Security Risk Management System own Data Security Policy they follow when managing all is in place to identify, assess, monitor and report on their operations. The Koç Group IT Committee is the main cybersecurity threats including sensitive data such as trade governing body and composed of the IT managers of major secrets, credit card, customer and healthcare information. Group companies. The committee meets monthly and The companies also identify the required data security sets the IT Standards such as policies, procedures and trainings according to their sectors and employees receive guidelines which are followed by all Group companies. trainings on these issues. Koç Group Sustainability Report 2019 18 Innovation We build a group-wide culture of start-ups and innovative small firms – to drive enthusiasm for innovation through our ecosystem. We also aim to gain innovation and intrapreneurship, in competitive advantage by bringing a structured approach order to integrate innovation into to innovation and entrepreneurship in our own businesses. our core business. Innovation with a sustainability focus improves quality of Breakthrough innovation to improve lives and enhance life, protects the environment and serves communities. services By looking for scalable, transformative ideas and taking calculated risks when we find them, we can make We aim to grow our business with new business models, substantial contributions to all the SDGs and ensure our products and services that improve lives in bold and customers, society and our business thrive together. innovative ways. Our customers are often the first to benefit from our innovations but, by finding new ways of thinking Attaching tremendous importance to technology, R&D and and working, we also support the wider society to become innovation, we allocated approximately TRY 1.1 billion to more sustainable, connected and prosperous. those areas in 2019. This amount is approximately 6%* of the total expenditure of Turkey’s private sector. With 32 Keeping innovation on the agenda for sustainable R&D centers, one design center and four Technopolis R&D success offices, we have the highest number of R&D centers of any group in Turkey. The Koç Group employs 3,930 R&D To stay relevant and resilient, businesses need to develop personnel, corresponding to 4%* of all employees working innovative processes and business models that are based in R&D in Turkey’s private sector. on creative and new ideas. Our stakeholders have a clear view that innovative businesses are sustainable ones. We believe innovation and sustainability go hand in hand, especially when it comes to delivering business growth and solving complex sustainability challenges. We frequently partner with other business actors – including * Based on Turkish Statistical Institute’s November 2019 R&D data Koç Group Sustainability Report 2019 19 Innovation Koç Innovation Program The program aims to develop innovation management competences at Koç Group companies. We aim to grow, Innovation is among the top strategic priorities for Koç build a culture of innovation profiting from the entrepreneur Group companies. It is a keystone for profitable and mindset in order to ensure business model innovation sustainable growth, competitiveness and powerful global and increase open innovation capacity. Within the scope presence. Koc Innovation Program launched in 2014 of the program, we support corporate entrepreneurs focuses on; through various training programs, mentors, new project management techniques and awards. Working methods 1. Building a culture of innovation and creating the right similar to startups are encouraged in innovation projects to work environment to enhance our innovation capacity decrease time to market and costs. 2. Cultivating corporate entrepreneurship Built with volunteering aspirations rather than driven by (intrapreneurship) across the Group and supporting corporate targets, the program is spreading rapidly across employees’ entrepreneurial spirit and efforts the Group. As of the end of 2019, nine Group companies are participating in the Program. Since the start of the 3. Extending innovative endeavours not only across program, more than 200 internal startups have been turned product and service development activities, but in all into projects, 16 new products and services brought to business units and operations the market and two companies were established. The companies included in the program have cooperated with 4. Increasing partnership with external stakeholders, an over 80 startups in order to support their projects and the important source of innovation, and managing these entrepreneurship ecosystem. collaborations more effectively As a result Koç Innovation Program was awarded the 5. Managing innovative operations via clear processes to “Best Corporate Entrepreneurship Program” by TOBB (the ensure sustainability Union of Chambers and Commodity Exchanges of Turkey), Endeavor, the Özyeğin University and the Startup Magazine. Koç Group Sustainability Report 2019 20 Innovation In Practice: Office-Free Renting With this service, customers do not need to go to the rental office to pick up the vehicle they rented through Budget website, call centre or mobile application. The service is active in seven regions where vehicles are delivered to the location the customers want. Thus, the problems that customers may experience such as the time loss due to the traffic are eliminated. During the Covid-19 pandemic, Office-free renting initiative this model was highly preferred by the customers. In “Budget Wherever You Want” is this period the hygiene standards were enhanced to the highest level and employee and customer health was the one of the major outcomes of Koç upmost priority. Innovation Programme in 2019. Applying the Lean Enterprise By delivering approximately 5,500 vehicles to approximately 3,500 customers the new model made a Methodology, Otokoç aimed to turnover of 6 million TRY, after being operational until first bring its services directly to the half of 2020. It has been achieved with a 90% customer customers to serve a better vehicle satisfaction. Within a short period, the web channel conversion rate almost caught the conversion rate of rental experience and to increase traditional vehicle rental firms. Otokoc aims to increase customer satisfaction to the highest this rate to 4% in the time ahead. level. The business idea, which By combining the past experiences with future ambitions, directly matches Otokoç’s vision Otokoc seeks for ways to improve the vehicle rental of being a travel companion that experience of the customers including their feedback to offers mobility solutions, was the innovation processes. With digitalization positioned commercialized in September in the centre of daily life, it is among Otokoc’s targets to increase the turnover through the use of innovative 2019, following the successful pilot solutions and thus provide a faster, easier and safer implementation. experience to the clients. Koç Group Sustainability Report 2019 21 Suppliers and Distributors The size and scale of our business gives us the opportunity principle and support our business partners in improving to drive positive change across a broad list of industries. their performance in quality production, awareness of We realize the importance of becoming a role-model for environmental and human rights as well as forming a strong our business partners, suppliers, distributors, contractors company culture based on business ethics. and focus on analyzing and improving our operations for a positive influence. With the goal of leading by example, we Trainings are an important part of our supplier and strive to first transform ourselves and then drive this wave of distributor relations. We provide diverse training programs positive change down our value chain. and in 2019, 6826 hours of trainings were given. In addition to trainings we have a supplier audit program to ensure We require our business partners to share our values of that our suppliers are in line with our company’s standards. honesty, integrity and business ethics. These values which We conduct quality and product safety audits as well as form the basis of all our operations are protected by laws assessments centering around social, environmental and and regulations and we place great care into making sure ethical criteria. This year, 15% of our 20,238 suppliers, that they are followed by every link that comprises our dealers and service points were audited on these criteria. value chain. Each link is responsible for delivering products Our goal is for our audits to cover our entire value chain and and services while regarding international standards, spread our sustainability goals beyond our operations. laws and regulations. We encourage cooperation as a Training on Environmental Issues Training on Social Issues Trainings on Ethical Issues Supplier Training Hours in 2019 2956 2442 1428 Koç Group Sustainability Report 2019 22 Empower people. Together Empower people. Together Aiming for an equal, empowered workforce Group employees to reach their full potential and seen us become a role model in our industries. Our aim is to create a community of empowered and engaged employees who have the knowledge and skills to Empowering people drives sustainable development reinvent the future’s business models. In accordance with our vision to grow globally, we attract, retain, and develop We focus on equipping people with the skills they need and multi-skilled talents and strengthen employee engagement building the most talented and inclusive workplace in line in all the countries where we operate. with Koç Group Code of Ethics and Business Conduct and the SDGs. Within this scope, we maximise our collective Building on our people-first principles potential to develop the solutions of the future: solutions that will meet some of society’s most pressing challenges. In our business model, we have always put people first to empower and help them to thrive in an agile business environment. The people-first approach has enabled Koç Koç Group Sustainability Report 2019 24 Koç Group Employees in 2019 As the of end of 2019, Koç Group is the largest employer in Turkey with 92,990 people, including 75,843 in Turkey and 17,147 abroad. 99.8% of our employees work full time. This report covers 72% of total workforce representing 67,117 employees. Koç Group Sustainability Report 2019 25 Future Talent Finding, training and keeping the best challenges facing business and society. We need to grow and strengthen our talent pipeline and give people the skills When considering the future of our industries, it is important and the motivation they need to build a resilient business. to understand which skillsets will best support our globally competitive business. We want our workplace to become The skills shortage in Turkey is a major issue for businesses more flexible, agile, dynamic, bold, collaborative, and and it is expected to emerge in the medium to long term. entrepreneurial, in order to attract the best emerging In 2019, 51%* of private companies stated that they are talents. experiencing difficulties in finding employees with the required skills. At Koç Group, we aim to provide solutions to Developing people is business as usual tackle skills shortage and secure our successful growth in the long term. From the beginning, we have been creating opportunities for our people to grow their potential. By training, we enable Industry 4.0 has significant implications for future talent our people to meet Industry 4.0’s demands with more sophisticated skills. Advancing our human capital is our Disruptive changes in business models will deeply affect priority. the employment. In near future workplaces will see people and machines working more closely alongside each other, Facing the skills shortage while jobs and skills will change as processes become ever more automated. The workforce is expected to be more There is a shortage of some of the most skilled talent in the integrated to the technology and innovation. We think this world that businesses like ours need to grow and succeed. can be an opportunity for all, if we equip people with the Science, technology, engineering, and math skills are in skillsets they need to succeed in the new business world. particular demand, as are multifaceted thinkers who can use their minds to tackle the complex interdisciplinary * Manpower, Talent Shortage Survey, 2019. Koç Group Sustainability Report 2019 26 Talent Management We focus on strengthening talent management to empower our One of our focus is improving the recruitment and internship business and our people together. We equip people with the skills and experience. In 2019, we received 2.8 million job applications, while motivation they need to prosper in tomorrow’s workplace. 8,000 out of were recruited. The scope of our approach regarding recruitment includes process and inventory standardization, joint We design and implement talent management strategies at Koç Group. candidate pool, analytics tool, ideal candidate journey, feedback, and Firstly, prospective employees are involved in competency-based audit mechanisms. According to our redesigned recruitment process, evaluation processes designed for different organizational levels we contact the candidate within 24 hours following the receipt of job and positions. Since 2011, employees who possess top executive application and we send a notification regarding the process every 15 level competences are identified by the “Assessment Center”. This days. We apply global assessment tools and systems, and English is enables an effective succession plan for top executive positions mandatory for job recruitment. We give feedback to the candidates and proactively supports candidates for these positions via trainingwho are eliminated during the recruitment process. We send a survey development programs and job rotation opportunities. Almost 27% of to the candidates to evaluate their recruitment experience. In 2019, the participants at Assessment Center are female employees. 20,371 candidates participated the survey and recruitment process net promoter score increased from -26 to +4 and process satisfaction rate Rotation method is talent mobility, which is one of the most important increased to 64% compared to previous years’ 48%. tools to develop Koç Group’s long-term human capital. Koç Group employees have priority when filling vacant positions at Group Koç Group employs approximately 5,000 interns every year. This year companies thanks to KoçKariyerim, which is the internal posting 36% of interns throughout the Group companies were later recruited system. Through the portal of KoçKariyerim, all available positions to full time positions. This percentage has tripled compared to 2018, within the Group are announced and the application process is thanks to our Group wide Internship Vision Project, which can be managed. This system enables employees to actively participate seen as an intern education program, where both interns and Group in shaping their career journey. More than 7,000 applications were companies benefit. We provide them orientation training and evaluate submitted in response to postings announced on the portal during their performance on the tasks assigned and share the results with 2019, and nearly 400 employees benefited from opportunities to rotate them. When a new recruitment process starts, we aim to prioritize between companies. In addition, more than 750 employees benefited candidates which have gone through the Internship Vision Project. from intra-company rotation opportunities. Moreover, there are more In order to increase the internship experience and the efficiency, we than 100 international assignees across the world. Rotation is a must moved all of our internship sourcing and recruitment processes to for Top Executive assignment at Koç Group. digital platforms. In 2019, net promoter score of internship processes of our companies has become +60. Koç Group Sustainability Report 2019 27 Talent Management Koç Group employees at all levels deliver career development plans at Program, BeGlobal China, partnership with Harvard, Udacity, MIT, widely used KoçAcademi platform. KoçAkademi provides employees Columbia, Oxford etc. under LEAD for all employees ranging from in-class and more than 14 thousand online video trainings including newly recruited employees to top executives. BeGlobal China program health and lifestyle, digital technologies, family, hobbies, and personal is designed by Koç Holding Human Resources Directorate following development categories. The Koç Group employees and their families the successful completion of the BeGlobal Silicon Valley program, to are able to access KoçAcademy through mobile phones, website examine best practices of global companies on site. We are in the top or tablets. Besides, one-on one coaching, mentoring and project 5 companies that in terms of enrolling employees to Harvard Business initiatives are also essential tools to effectively manage talents and School online programs. Another online training program is Udacity, skills. In 2019, 332 employees attended coaching programs and 660 which is one of the world’s most valuable online training companies employees took part in the various mentoring program throughout the and which organizes a wide range of online training programs covering Group companies. areas such as coding and data analysis. As a part of talent management, Learning and Development (L&D) Koc Group employees’ digital transformation competencies are programs which are designed in conjunction with L&D institutions developed and strengthen by Ivy Leauge institutions such as Columbia in Turkey and the world are offered to the Koç Group employees. In Business School, MIT Sloan, University of Oxford, London School of addition to L&D programs, the Group aims to support employees in Economics, and the University of Cambridge. a wide range of areas such as leadership, management, strategy and change management at different stages of their career with More information on other employee programs can be found at L&D programs offered under the “LEAD” brand. There are more than Koç Holding 2019 Annual Report. 110 different programs available, including Personal Development Koç Group Sustainability Report 2019 28 Future Talent In Practice: Personal Development Program The PDP is our first “must have” leadership program for top executives. The program is six-month comprehensive leadership curriculum with 360 assessment, coaching, in-class trainings and online materials. It differs from other programs with digitalization focus, new leadership skills and intense body-mind activities. While upskilling employees’ The program comprises three phases in which senior executives technical skills, we also attach take part in groups of twenty-five. By now, 150 general managers and deputy general managers in 6 groups completed the priority to empowering senior program. 7th group will be completed in 2021. Our aim is to executives with future leadership cover at least two thirds of senior executives to this program. competencies in the digital The first phase is a one-week camp with a theme of Personal world. Therefore, we launched Awareness , aiming individual transformations through mental Personal Development Program and physical awareness. In the interim period, the participants (PDP) for all senior executives of complete Harvard Business School's HBX – Disruptive Strategy Koç Group, in cooperation with program in smaller groups. The second phase, also a one-week camp, has the theme of Change. McKinsey instructors provide Harvard University, McKinsey trainings on digital trends, design-thinking, digital marketing, and Aberkyn, to enable our big data, agility and change management, which are tailored to strategic priorities. address leaders’ specific needs in the digital age. The last phase carried out abroad and focused on experience, has the theme of “Renewal”. It aims to empower senior executives’ adaptive leadership skills by uncovering the adaptability and flexibility of them in challenging natural conditions. The PDP is selected as a best practice case for McKinsey worldwide. Koç Group Sustainability Report 2019 29 Future Talent In Practice: Agile Transformation Our research shows that almost 70% of Fortune 100 companies have already started their agile transformation journey. These companies are customer-oriented, take actions quickly and strong in technology. Agile organizations foster more disciplines towards a common goal rather than allowing individual success. They work autonomously and are aligned through a common goal. Customer orientation is the foundation of the agile organizations. By 2025, 75% of workforce will be comprised Being aware of this approach, Koç Group has initiated its agile transformation exercises in 2018. Four companies were selected as pilots in 2019; Ford Otosan, of millennials*. We observe Koç Finance and two subsidiaries of Arçelik, WAT Motor Company and Token the rising demand in working Financial Technologies, created agile transformation teams. Agile coaches played flexibly without stigmas an important role to raise awareness regarding the transformation within the company from top management to all employees, who supported the process and the will to make tough through creating teams and providing training and coaching. choices and sacrifices to As a concrete example to what the agile organizations are capable of, Ford Otosan’s better manage work and agile transformation teams solved a wrinkled headliner defect ongoing since 8 home. Besides, the rate years in just 2 weeks, decreased marketing request feasibility check process from of technological change 6+ months to 6 weeks, achieved almost 180k € per annum cost savings on Ford Courier car model's back seat in 4 weeks through ideation and implementation of is ever increasing, and these ideas, such as size and geometry optimization of trim support wires allowing customer expectations are deletion of some sub-components. In WAT’s Agile Transformation, the first pilot growing faster day by day. team achieved significant lead time improvement by decreasing new product configuration duration from 21 days to 8 days which resulted into 3 times product We need to keep up with the definition in the same time period. Additionally, in terms of the overall lead time pace of the world and agile perspective, the lead time from order to delivery has been decreased from 300 days to 125 days. transformation is the key. The teams’ efforts have shown that agile organizations can provide efficiency in * EY, Global Generations: A global study on work-life challenges finding solutions to existing issues as well as increasing customer satisfaction and across generations employee engagement which enable them to create value for the business and the shareholders. At Koç Group, our goal is to spread agile transformation to all group companies in 2020. Koç Group Sustainability Report 2019 30 Diversity and Inclusion Creating an equal opportunity workplace employees both in office and industrial positions. We address the needs of our employees regardless of their We work hard to cultivate a diverse and inclusive place gender, religion, sexual orientation, language, ethnicity, to work where men and women feel valuable and valued, race, beliefs, faith, disability, or any other personal whether they work in office or industrial roles. Our focus attribute protected by law. Our human rights principles is creating an inclusive culture for a more productive and which is a written declaration of our attitude regarding our collaborative workplace across our industrial plants workforce also comply with the international agreements issued by the International Labor Organization (ILO) and Staying true to our progressive values its international equivalents. We follow Koç Group Code Our values and compelling previous performance lead of Ethics and Business Conduct in our human resources us the way to champion diversity and inclusion for many processes and expect our business partners to do so. years. As a progressive organization, we take strength Collective bargaining rights of employees is respected and from our values and continue to show our commitment to supported at our company. international best practices. We specifically adopt gender equality since 2014 and Diversity and inclusion is good for business… pioneered many initiatives within the Group. Initially, we We regard diversity as a strength and value to adopt re-evaluated our work environment from a gender point of international business norms where everyone’s contribution view and improved our conditions to be more conducive to counts. We think that diversity and inclusion cover many women. We enhanced childcare and safety at workplace dimensions, but all are good for business. Diverse and provide mentoring during and after maternity leave. In organizations outperform those that have less balanced 2019, 1111 of our female employees took maternity leave work environment. Organizations where all employees and 94% of them returned back to work after their official feel valued, respected and equal have higher employee leave ended. 20% of women employees benefit from engagement scores which brings about productivity. childcare. … and good for sustainability At Koç Group, we adopted a comprehensive approach in order to eliminate all kinds of discrimination and bias We fundamentally believe that diversity and inclusion in regarding gender at workplace. We signed the Declaration workplace is essential in order to integrate sustainability of Equality at Work and published Koç Group Equality into business. Organizations with balanced workforce are Guidelines and Implementation Principles to ensure better governed and have richer skillsets which results that the gender equality is adopted throughout the in creative thinking and aligning better with the diverse company at all levels. We also signed the United Nations interests of customers and stakeholders. Women Empowerment Principles (WEPs) with 30 of our subsidiaries. We encourage our employees and business In the direction of our aforementioned approach, we partners in gender equality via HeForShe initiative. For launched a series of initiatives to provide the same more information regarding the initiative you may refer to performance, training and career opportunities to all our the section of Strengthen communities. Together 102-41 Koç Group Sustainability Report 2019 31 Diversity and Inclusion In Practice: AI Female Talent Despite global efforts, the gap between from Group companies, who have already been working on artificial intelligence and/or data science or completed trainings of Koç men and women employed in the University and/or Udacity Data Science program, were selected for the technology field is wide and women program. remain underrepresented all around the This is the first training program in Turkey that focuses on improving world. We believe that private sector have competencies of women in the area of AI. During the 3-month program, responsibilities to take actions to close the participants took online trainings, attended workshops and gender gap in tech and support their hackathons in Microsoft Turkey office. women employees. According to World In the first phase of the program, the participants were instructed to Economic Forum’s Gender Gap Report plan a project for a social cause by using cognitive AI services. In the 2020*, it is observed that gender gaps second phase, the participants are expected to create a solution with are visible in specific skilled roles and it AI to a business problem at Koç Group. The self-organizing, dedicated group within the AI Female Talent program come together on regular is estimated that women only make up to basis and carry on with their learning and project development studies. 26% of Data and AI roles. Recently, the group developed an application for the blind people, assisting them during credit or debit card payments, vocalizing the In light of this, we collaborated with Microsoft Turkey to initiate AI amount shown on the pos device. The mobile application is planned to Female Talent program towards the end of 2019. 20 employees be available for use in 2020. * Global Gender Gap Report, 2020 Koç Group Sustainability Report 2019 32 Performance Management We aim to create a community of empowered, engaged previously, following that promotions are made according employees who have the knowledge and skills to carry our to performance appraisal results. In 2019, 98% of office business forward. Therefore, we consider performance employees and 82% of employees in industrial positions management as a set of applications which enables us to were subjected to performance appraisal. deploy our Group-wide corporate goals integrated to our strategy. As a part of this vision, we determine our employees’ competencies and plan their individual development. Our performance management system is based on Effective communication with employees, mutual feedback measuring and rewarding our employees’ achievements. and reconciliation constitutes the basic principles of During the process, we focus on creating long-term value performance appraisal. Performance management system rather than short-term accomplishments. also provides inputs for the Compensation Management System including benefit packages. For details on Targets are reviewed throughout the year and the performance management, remuneration and bonuses, performance management process is completed please refer to the Remuneration Policy for Members of by evaluating the targets at the end of the year. Our the Board of Directors and Senior Executives and Koç employees are assessed with regard to specific goals set Holding 2019 Annual Report. Koç Group Sustainability Report 2019 33 Health and Safety Reaching excellence in health and safety standards is an essential In 2019, the central Health, Safety and Environment Unit is established part of our goal of achieving zero accidents throughout our operations. in order to contribute to the transition towards an encompassing and Occupational health and safety rules constitute the core value of our work integrated occupational health, safety and environment management culture without any compromise. policy and system. This Unit is leading the Group-wide committees, which have participants from the Group companies, collaboratively develop long With a precautionary and risk-based approach, we progressively term strategies, roadmaps, management systems and standards. Besides, develop health and safety related policies and management systems. In our goal is to become one of the global best practices through a wide accordance with regulations and directives, globally accepted standards range of projects carried out under the “LongLive Life” (Yaşasın Hayat) and the Koç Group Code of Ethics and Business Conduct, we manage platform. health and safety issues and look to ensure the elimination of any relevant risks. We regard international standards such as OHSAS 18001 or ISO We believe that employee engagement is key to foster a healthy and safe 45001 as frameworks to ensure systematic management of health and working environment. To that end, trainings play a significant role to form safety issues at our facilities. As of 2019, approximately 72% of facilities a safety culture based upon shared responsibility. In 2019, we provided owned by Koç Group companies were certified with either OHSAS 18001 467,393 employee-hours of occupational health and safety training to Occupational Health and Safety Management System or the newer version Group employees and 112,382 employee hours to contractors. of the certificate, named as ISO 45001. Occupational health and safety management processes at our Group companies mainly include risk assessments, continual measurement and tracking of occupational health and safety performance, trainings, and making use of new technologies and implementing innovative practices. Health and Safety Performance 2017 2018 2019 Injury rate (IR)* employees 4.40 6.96 5.91 * IR = (Number of injuries in given period*1,000,000) / Total hours worked in Occupational illness frequency rate(OIFR)** employees 0.12 0.14 0.21 given period ** OIFR: (Number of occupational illnesses in given period*1,000,000) / Total Lost-time injury frequency rate (LTIFR)*** employees 47.29 3.52 3.51 hours worked in given period Occupational health and safety training provided *** LTIFR: (Number of lost time injuries in given period*1,000,000) / Total hours 589,816 525,047 467,393 worked in given period Koç Group (employee*hours) The calculation excludes fatalities. LTIFR values of 2017 are based on total Occupational health and safety training provided – recordable data, while since 2018 calculations are based on only lost time 89,947 94,811 112,382 contractors (employee*hours) injuries. Koç Group Sustainability Report 2019 34 Tüpraş İzmit Refinery Act for the planet. Together Act for the planet. Together Aiming for a balanced approach for doing business challenges that the humanity is facing ever since, with a potential to have irreversible hazards if action is not Sustainable economic development will only happen when taken on time. In order to mitigate the effects of climate protecting the environment is core to our decision making. change, businesses, governments and societies need to Put another way, at Koç Group, we know our financial act together. The internationally recognized 1.5°C limit for wellbeing is worth very little without the human wellbeing temperature increase is approaching and the challenge that comes with a healthily functioning natural world. ahead is more acute than ever. A connected, long-term perspective Businesses around the world have an important role responding to the needs of the planet. Goals set in We are in a strong position to act on complex global Paris Agreement and the United Nations Sustainable challenges with long time frames – like climate change. Our Development Goals address the need for a change, global scale and engagement present big opportunities to especially for the areas being affected the most. A global contribute to the progressive climate agenda. In doing so, shared vision is of utmost need in order to raise awareness we provide a role model for other businesses – both within and trigger transformation towards a more environmental our own ecosystem and beyond. sensitive business model. To this end, the leadership of private sector in collaboration with different initiatives is Global climate change has widespread unprecedented essential, which is the core of our motivation to act for a social and environmental impacts. It is one of the biggest better planet. Koç Group Sustainability Report 2019 36 Act for the planet. Together Koç Environment Committee Experts and practitioners on environment, energy and environment-friendly products and obtaining internationally sustainability working in different Koç Group companies are recognized environmental management certifications for all united under Koç Environment Committee and concentrate our facilities. their efforts in order to create sustainable solutions and strategies for all Group businesses. The Committee In order to achieve these goals, we monitor our develops its strategies in the light of the global agenda performance closely and evaluate our efficiency through driven by the Paris Agreement, UN Global Compact and monthly held meetings with representatives from over 20 UN Sustainable Development Goals. of our companies. The key performance indicators in the field of environmental management, which companies Each of the Group companies is tasked to establish prepare their annual performance reports, accordingly, are business plans in line with the long-term strategies determined by the research and discussion conducted by designed by the Koç Environment Committee and adapting the Committee. With the Group Environmental Manager, we them according to the unique conditions of the locations manage our performance and carry out coordinated work in they operate. Our current long-term strategy focuses on an efficient manner. climate action, resource and energy efficiency, green procurement, zero-waste operation, developing Koç Group Sustainability Report 2019 37 Climate Change Climate change is a material Adopting the best available technology to optimize our operations is essential for reducing emissions and issue for majority of our business. improving energy efficiency, increasing our use of renewable energy, and adapting to the impacts of climate We aim to demonstrate our change across all our industries. Developing effective commitment to address this solutions to environmental issues requires coordinated efforts between all related parties. We work with industry challenge, by innovating and and sector peers, government institutions, public bodies, collaborating for the future, academia, and civil society to drive forward the climate change agenda and support policy development, both increasing our operational nationally and internationally. performance, and taking adaptive Following stakeholders’ expectations, we continue to act measures to build a resilient on climate change, adapt to the shift towards a low carbon economy and invest in renewable energy and energy business. efficiency to mitigate the effects. Climate Leadership Since 2011, Koç Group represents Turkish business commitment to the Science Based Targets initiative to community on climate change with its presence in many reduce its greenhouse gas emissions. Yapı Kredi became local and international platforms. The Group participates the first financial institution to obtain ISO 14046 Water in the Climate Change Conference of the Parties (COP) Footprint Certificate for its Head Office buildings. Tofaş, annually and adheres to the United Nations Framework Ford Otosan, Yapı Kredi and Arçelik have responded to Convention on Climate Change (UNFCCC). Koç Group Carbon Disclosure Project (CDP) in Climate Change and companies Tüpraş and Arçelik participated in the Water programs in 2019. Conference of the Parties to the United Nations Framework Convention on Climate Change (COP25) in 2019, Arçelik Since 2015, a senior executive from Koç Group leads the shared its experiences on its sustainability strategy, best Environment and Climate Change Working Group under practices and EBRD loan for enhancing responsible R&D Turkish Industry and Business Association (TÜSİAD). investment as a panellist in the 10 Years Countdown to With Koç Group companies and Environment Committee, 2030: Banks Acting as Influencers to Enhance Common we regularly contribute to position papers and research Market Practice session. Arçelik has also made a developed by TÜSİAD. Koç Group Sustainability Report 2019 38 Climate Change Improving our Energy Efficiency With its short and long-term implications for businesses, audited and certified by independent organizations within climate change is an emerging risk. It is our responsibility the scope of ISO 50001 Energy Management System to act accordingly and carry out projects to improve energy Standard. efficiency in our operations. We are committed to sustain Energy Management Highlights of 2019 continuous improvement of our operational processes. We give high importance to increase energy efficiency and • Arçelik reached 64,666 GJ of energy saving and reduced 4,818 tons of CO2 emissions through 160 different energy efficiency projects in Turkey. decrease greenhouse gas emissions emitted by our direct or • Aygaz saved 215 tons of CO2 emissions through energy efficiency indirect operations. projects with annual total impact of 1,566 GJ/year. • Ford Otosan saved 2,813.80 tons in CO2 emissions and 64,799 GJ of Energy intensity is an indicator which reveals the amount energy through several energy saving projects. of energy consumed per income generated. The overall • Otokar saved 965 GJ of energy and 259 tons in CO2 emissions through several energy efficiency projects. energy intensity of the Group companies in 2019 was 386 • Tat Gıda reduced its energy consumption per year by 20,841 GJ and GJ/TL million of net income. Additionally, our greenhouse its carbon emissions by 1,301 tons through efficiency improvements on gas emissions intensity was 24.9 tons CO2e/TL million of net machine optimization and hot wastewater reuse. income. In the energy sector these figures stand at 672 GJ/ • Tofaş reduced its energy consumption by 48,975 GJ and its carbon TL million and 43.4 CO2e/TL million. The Group companies emissions by 3,959 tons with the help of 116 energy efficiency projects. operating in non-energy industries have an average energy • Tüpraş reached a CO2 emission reduction of 26,292 tons and a energy consumption reduction of 473,234 GJ with 24 different energy efficiency intensity of 60.5 GJ/TL million and an average greenhouse projects. gas emission intensity of 3.9 tons CO2e/TL million. • TürkTraktör saved 79,000 GJ through several energy improvement projects. We focus on ways to reduce the energy intensity by • Yapı Kredi reduced its energy consumption by 278.84 GJ through increasing the energy efficiency of our operations. Each energy efficiency projects and saved 4,447 tons of CO2 in total with various emission reduction efforts. group company focusses on their own business models and processes and it contributes to the group total energy efficiency. Based on these efforts, in 2019 Koç Group saved 1.47 million GJ of energy, which resulted in a CO2e reduction of 44,838 Tons. 2017 2018 2019 Furthermore, Arçelik, Ford Otosan, Opet, Tofaş, TürkTraktör Energy 1193.81 666.47 672.20 Automotive 74.14 54.00 47.42 and Yapı Kredi’s greenhouse gas emissions were certified Consumer Durables 77.50 54.26 39.57 in accordance with the ISO 14064-1 Greenhouse Gas 49.99 26.02 26.66 Finance Emissions Reporting Standards. Tüpraş began to certify Koç Group 643.77 397.57 385.84 greenhouse gas reductions obtained from energy efficiency projects under ISO 14064-2 and included a life cycle Koç Group energy intensity (GJ/million TL) Energy intensity per sector (GJ/million TL) analysis approach in its work. Arçelik, Aygaz, Entek, Ford Otosan, Tat Gıda, Tofaş, TürkTraktör and Tüpraş have been Koç Group Sustainability Report 2019 39 Climate Change Managing water risks Achieving SDG 6: Clean Water and Sanitation is essential to tracked on all of these fields across the Group companies. human health, environmental sustainability, and economic In 2019, Group companies have consumed 38 million prosperity. In addition, water risk is a significant concern m3 of freshwater, which led to a water density of 137 m3 for the industries we operate. Recognizing the importance per million TL revenue generated, which maintained its of managing water risks across our operations, Koç Group reducing trend throughout the years. Environment Committee prepared the “Koç Group Water Risks Analysis” to examine the physical, regulatory, and Water Management Highlights: reputational risks in the river basins that we operate. • Arçelik saved approximately 159,000 m3 of water by implementing water-use efficiency measures. In order to effectively manage our water risks, we aim to • Otokoç reached 40% reduction in water use thanks to the LEED Green reduce freshwater withdrawals by boosting water efficiency Office Certificate. in production through recycling and recovery, to lower the stress on water resources through source diversification, to • Tüpraş supplied 99% of its water needs through wastewater recovery at İzmit Refinery. cut wastewater and improve the quality of it. Performance is Koç Group water intensity (m3/million TL) Water consumption by sectors (%) Total water withdrawal by resource (%) Koç Group Sustainability Report 2019 40 Climate Change In Practice: Addressing Climate Change Impacts Focusing on Energy Efficiency Innovation Programme, Tüpraş has established various partnerships Tüpraş, In accordance with its sustainability objectives, Tüpraş, as an industry and has taken action to promote energy efficiency projects, the with high energy consumption, concentrates on maximizing energy Turkey’s largest efficiency all its facilities. Prioritizing energy-efficiency projects in its economically and environmentally viable conversion of CO2 waste into value-added products to be used as alternative fuels or chemicals, company and the investments made it possible for Tüpraş to reach an energy saving of development and demonstration of new and advanced CO2capture seventh largest refinery 473,234 GJ in 2019. This energy saving is equivalent to 26,292 tons of technologies, research and development of advanced waste water in Europe, has been CO2 emission savings and led to a financial saving of TL 21.6 million. treatment technologies and the manufacturing of energy efficient addressing climate Adaptation to Climate Change materials. Partnerships initiated by Tüpraş aim to produce biosynthetic fuel with the objective of supporting low carbon development, innovating change in its business Recognizing the significance of adapting to climate conditions, Tüpraş technologies which make the recycling of waste heat possible and active strategy for more than a prioritizes identifying and eliminating the effects of climate change sustainability on an industrial scale. decade. Tüpraş focuses which poses a threat to its operations. Accordingly, it has acted to preserve the vital sources of its operations, mitigating water risks, and on R&D and maximizing adjusting its production processes to manage its resources effectively. In Especially in energy-intense industries, significant amounts of waste heat are lost to the atmosphere. 10 different leading institutions from 5 energy efficiency in collaboration with the Körfez Municipality, Tüpraş has initiated the Urban different countries came together to start Indus3Es project in developing all its facilities and Wastewater Recycling Project, investing $24.8 million in İzmit Refinery an innovative absorption heat exchanger (AHT) system that will production processes, between 2014 and 2015. Currently, the total municipal wastewater efficiently recycle low temperature (below 130 ºC) waste heat that occurs recovery production capacity of the refinery is 1,500 m3/hour and 99% effectively taking part of the water being used at the facility comes from the wastewater of the in industrial processes. In 2019 the pilot project was implemented at Tüpraş İzmit Refinery, thus, making it the first refinery to use the in climate action, and Municipality. İzmit and İzmir refineries of Tüpraş are gradually working technology developed under Horizon 2020. adapting its business to recycle industrial wastewater and reuse processed wastewater in the to the impact of climate intermediate stages. As one of the few initiatives around the globe which Collaboration focuses on repurposing urban wastewater recycling project and the change. In virtue of recycled-reused industrial wastewater, the projects lead to the recycling Recognizing sharing knowledge and making collaborations as an essential part of sustainable development, Tüpraş makes effort to various partnerships of 87 million m3 of water in the last four years. This means that the project share its own experience on climate change with the business world. and collaborations, saved an amount of water equal to the annual consumption of an urban Tüpraş participated at the 25th Session of the COP 25, which was Tüpraş shares its area around 542,500 houses. held in Madrid, Spain by joining related sessions in order to follow experience with a Tüpraş R&D departments work to present solutions to mitigate climate the international agenda closely. As part of its collaboration with the Körfez Municipality, the company held meetings with several local wide community of change impacts on the company’s business. As part of the Horizon municipalities, the Ministry of Forest and Water Management, along with stakeholders. 2020 programme, which is the biggest European Union Research & NGOs and universities. Koç Group Sustainability Report 2019 41 Waste Management At Koç Holding it is of the utmost importance to manage waste in the most environmentally friendly way, which is enabling circular methodologies in our operations. In other words, we aim to reduce the waste generated and continuously increase the waste percent which is recycled and reused. Furthermore, we practice ways to safely treat and dispose the residual waste. We identify possible effects of our waste and treat them accordingly. As of today, 13% of our total waste generated is labelled as hazardous waste, which is held as highly significant and treated accordingly. With our practices on waste management we aim to lead the industries we operate in and the communities we are in touch with towards a more circular way of managing the waste generated. We believe this transformation is significant in order to build a future with higher responsibility of the waste generated. Koç Group Sustainability Report 2019 42 Climate Change In Practice: Business Plastics Initiative Global Compact Turkey, Business Council A senior executive from Koç Holding takes place in the Steering Committee of the Initiative and actively contributes to the work of the for Sustainable Development Turkey and Initiative. Companies that want to be part of the solution by answering Turkish Industry and Business Association the Initiative's call announced that they would set their plastic pollution came together to fight against plastic commitments by 2021 the latest. As Koç Group, we came forward with a multi-phase plan to end use of single-use plastics by the end of 2020, a pollution and started Business Plastics commitment covering all Group companies. Initiative . The Initiative invited companies to give commitments to address plastic pollution while guiding them through the process and reporting the progress transparently. The formation of the Initiative was followed by the 16th Istanbul Biennial which brought the plastic pollution issue to the public agenda in Turkey. Koç Holding, being the main sponsor of the Istanbul Biennial, is one of the founding companies of the Initiative hosted the launch event in November 2019. Koç Group Sustainability Report 2019 43 Climate Change In Practice: Circular Economy and Tackling Plastic Wastes Arçelik aims to create shared cleaner was manufactured, which is 90% made of recycled from ghost fishing nets and waste filament. In 2019, the plastic using plastic materials obtained in Arçelik’s recycling production processes used more than 65 tons of recycled value for all its stakeholders, plants. In Arçelik's new vacuum cleaners 31% of the plastic waste fishing nets in more than 200,000 products. following its vision and strategy, parts of each broom are made from recycled plastic with where business efforts and improved material properties. This means that approximately Bio-plastics & Bio-Cool 106 tons of recycled plastic transformed in a way that it The efforts to reuse or recycle plastic are not the sole actions sustainability are interlinked. In adds value to Arçelik's products. By developing this product, taken for combatting plastic waste. Alternative methods to line to this, Arçelik gives high Arçelik saves approximately 2,207 GJ of energy and 285 replace plastics are also being studied for at Arçelik. The importance to circular economy, tons of CO2 emissions annually, which equals to annual bio-plastic project developed by Arçelik enables plantconsumption of approximately 219 households, by reducing based resources such as corn starch, soybean oil to be which enables recyclable or the use of plastics from petroleum sources. used instead of petrol-based plastics. Bioplastics emit 80% reusable waste to be handled as less carbon dioxide compared to petroleum-based plastics. an input in the new production PET Tub Thanks to the bio-materials developed by Arçelik, the lifeprocesses. In order to further combat against the plastic pollution and contribute to circular economy, Arçelik uses PET bottles for span and durability of the bio-plastics are increased for durable goods and home appliance applications. For the manufacturing some part of the washing machines. With this Bio-Cool, Bio Based Polyurethane Insulation Materials project, Arçelik was deemed worthy of the “Zero Waste Private approach Arçelik recycled over 30 million PET bottles from industrial egg shell waste and bioplastics were combined Sector Award” in 2019 by the Ministry of Environment and the beginning of the project until the end of 2019, 11.4 million to produce the egg-trays of refrigerators. Within the same Urbanization for its zero waste operations, success in waste bottles in 2019 alone. Thus far, the project saved 20,500 GJ project, bio-based hard polyurethane foam insulation was management and recycling facilities. energy equivalent to 1,700 households annual electricity produced by using natural oils to be used in compartments consumption and prevented 885 tons of carbon dioxide for household type refrigerators. Arçelik was able to save 6 Eco-Sustain: High Performance Recycled Plastic Materials emissions. kg of CO2 per cabinet produced in the selected refrigerator. Arçelik carried out plastic recycling studies for the plastic For a more efficient transformation towards the bio-plastics parts used in all product types. Recycling plastic raw Ghost Fishing Nets Arçelik works in collaboration with its European partners material formulations have been developed according to the The ghost fishing nets constitute a major threat to marine life. within the frame of EU Horizon 2020 BIO4SELF Project. application areas and technical expectations. Calcite filled Arçelik has developed innovative high-performance plastic recycled polypropylene (PP) compounds, flame retardant materials using those recycled fishing nets and the materials Microfiber Filtration System recycled PP compounds, recycled black PP compounds are approved for oven productions. Arçelik produced various Arçelik designed world's first microfiber filtrating washing have been developed and approved for mass production. oven plastic parts that require a high levels of hardness and machine, which filters up to 90% of microfibers that otherwise Detergent boxes, pump filter bodies, inner cover parts, thermal stability, using a glass fiber reinforced polyamidego into oceans and seas. The microfiber filtration box can back covers and intermediate glass plastics are some of the based compound in which all polyamide polymer content in be recycled and reused in producing new filters or textile recycled plastic parts approved for production in the facilities. plastic parts is obtained from recycled fishing nets and waste products. The filtration system overall reduces the amount of Vacuum cleaner made from recycled materials yarn fibers. In order to fibers to maximize the end product's plastic that goes into oceans, while also contributing to the With the use of waste plastic, Grundig electric vacuum performance, Arçelik used a combination of recycled plastics circular economy by being fully-recyclable. Koç Group Sustainability Report 2019 44 Biodiversity Human activity on a global scale has a potential to threaten the continuously seeking ways to minimize the impacts caused by biodiversity and ecosystems. The potential negative impacts our operations. We aim to provide effective land management need to be dealt with in order to restore the environmental and biodiversity protection. The biodiversity action plan sustainability, as well as to ensure economic and human incorporates ecosystem protection, habitat degradation, development. In line with this, our environmental strategy preservation for all species and particularly those whose includes the conservation of biodiversity, evaluation and existences are under threat as well as endemic species and mitigation of potential negative impacts of our operations. We soil protection. Our actions in this area also help us contribute prioritize these fields and summarize our biodiversity approach to the SDGs, in particular to Goal 14 (Life Below Water) and under four pillars. Goal 15 (Life on Land). Koç Group Environmental Committee has created a biodiversity action plan and expanded this to all Group companies aiming to create conservation strategies for endemic species. We also conducted a biodiversity monitoring project for marine species in partnership with the Nature Conservation Centre and the Institute of Marine Sciences and Technology. According to the biodiversity action plan, we are Koç Group Sustainability Report 2019 45 Strengthen communities. Together Strengthen communities. Together Building the world we want to live in Our stakeholders recognize us as a driving force in society. We, too, see ourselves as a unique part of the socio-economic landscape. In line with the SDGs, we imagine and build the world we want in 2030 Aiming for better, across society through transformative partnerships and with the momentum of our stakeholders. It all begins internally before reaching out to the wider At Koç Group, we believe that strong and stable communities are vital community. Through our community investments, we aim to create foundations for business success. Over the years, we have been a sustainable, scalable and replicable models for wide dissemination first-mover in supporting community initiatives. Today, we focus on and lasting impact in the five focus areas of Lead. Together digital driving large-scale and long-lasting programmes that create social transformation, innovation, future talent, diversity & inclusion and change. Through the impact we create, our business becomes climate change. Thus, we focus on the societal effects of complex stronger, our network becomes connected, future generations have issues material to Koç Group and partnering with stakeholders more opportunities, and everyone in society feels part of something that to increase the prosperity and equality in the world, where we do matters. business. By doing so, we aim to create shared benefits for the society and our business. Leveraging our scale to drive change Supporting an enhanced community Our scale means we have the potential to create a paradigm shift in the areas in which we invest. When our employees, distributors , suppliers At Koç Group, we aim to reflect future-oriented thinking in all areas and their families are combined, we reach out to an audience of half of our business. A digital future awaits us, where our daily, economic a million people. Engaging this many people in affecting change can and social lives, relationships, working environment and practices start a movement that spreads through communities and beyond, are redefined by the increasing impact of digital technologies. In this creating a positive social transformation throughout society. Coupled emerging future, the focus areas of Lead. Together are all intersecting with this, we work in a wide range of industries – from food processing and equally relevant. We, therefore, focus on the social change to energy, consumer durables to finance. This means we can build essential to digital transformation, innovation and future talents. interdisciplinary teams that are inclusive of diverse talents to make In addition, gender equality continues to stay on our community creative interventions and to scale impact at national and international investment agenda, with respect to the great importance we give to level. diversity & inclusion. Koç Group Sustainability Report 2019 47 In Practice: For My Country: I Design the Future As Koç Group, we aim for wide progress. In 2019, we launched the program in our Group companies and trainings were conducted by the volunteers dissemination and lasting impact within the company. for the society through our community investments. Our target • Future compass: It is an online self-assessment tool that helps individuals to define their personal roadmap is to address the societal effects in this changing environment. With a 20-minute of complex issues material to Koç experience, individuals can explore their perception on shaping future as well as their relationship with Group. technology. • Designing the Future Sessions: These are 1-hour Since 2006, For My Country platform is active as a social sessions delivered by Koç Group volunteers. The aim responsibility initiative to mobilize Koç Group’s vast network of the session is to discuss how rapid change results of employees, suppliers and distributors around different in uncertainty, how technology is widely used and fields of sustainable development. The focus area of the accessible, how technology is solving complex issues at platform changes every three years. Currently the motto scale and what each of us can do to shape our futures. is “For My Country: I Design the Future”. We concentrate • Future Workshop-1: 1-day workshop that targets at our efforts to understand the complex relationship between deeply exploring the different perspectives on future digital transformation, innovation and future talent. and technology. • Future Workshop-2: It is a 1-day workshop that includes In a world of fast-paced change, technology is redefining futuristic methodologies. Participants work on future the way we live and the way we do business. The adaptation scenarios, understand the trends and their impact. At and transformation are key issues in order to sustain the the end, each participant prepares a personal manifesto business and further inspire communities during this to imagine their role in their desired future scenario. transition. We, therefore, focus our community investments on discovering how technology is shaping and changing The programme helps Koç Group employees, our ecosystem our lives and how we can transform the way we do business of suppliers and distributers to get familiar with the rapid accordingly. In order to empower individuals to rethink their change in technology and its impact on our business and relationships with technology for a better future, Koç Group daily lives. These tools are disseminated through 120 has partnered with Deloitte Digital to develop the content of volunteer employees as well as more than 80 volunteer the programme and the Community Volunteers Foundation to distributors. We aim to reach out to all of our employees, as reach a wider community. well as nearly 10,000 distributors and young people in the communities across 17 cities. While introducing this concept The program offers several tools for individuals to explore at Group level, we also channel our community investments their perception of the future and their relationship with in the same direction for a larger impact. technology. The tools are designed as different stages of Koç Group Sustainability Report 2019 48 In Practice: Investing in 21st Century Skills in Vocational Training Vocational training has an essential Yet, with the adoption of Industry 4.0 technologies, there is an emerging need to update the Model and support role in developing and supporting students learn 21st century skills. In order to achieve this, young talents for 4th Industrial Koç Holding is partnering with the Ministry of National Revolution. Koç Group has been Education and IBM to develop a sustainable businessschool partnership model and strengthen the vocational investing in vocational training for training ecosystem in line with 21st century skills. more than a decade and carried out a comprehensive programme, Accordingly, in specifically designed workshops, students, teachers and industry representatives from Koç Group Vocational Training: A Crucial companies and IBM work together to develop innovative Matter for the Nation from 2006 to solutions to complex problems with design thinking 2013. methodology. As an important outcome of the process, students had the chance the apply this approach in real life In collaboration with Vehbi Koç Foundation* and the Ministry with the industry representatives. In 2019 they designed of National Education, the programme aimed at creating a washing machine in these workshops. Througout the awareness in all segments of society on the importance process, a specific physical space need has emerged to of vocational technical education as well as positioning conduct these workhops. Therefore, a design thinking lab business as a key stakeholder in vocational training. has been designed in the context of vocational training for the first time and it will set an example to other vocational The main outcome of the programme is “School-Company schools. Collaboration Model” which puts forward the major components of collaboration such as on-the-job trainings, mentorship opportunities as well as establishing labs at schools with up-to-date technologies. * Vehbi Koç Foundation, established in 1969 as Turkey’s first private foundation, has significant contributions to the development of civil society and philanthropy in the country. It has celebrated its 50th anniversary this year. Koç Group Sustainability Report 2019 49 Gender Equality Gender equality is vital to advance social progress, improve workplace, among distributors and suppliers, and in the human development and build more equitable societies. wider community. According to the Sustainable Development Goals Progress Report 2019*, while gender equality advances and some Koç Group companies operate in various industries forms of discrimination against women and girls are including the energy, durable goods, automotive and diminishing, it continues to hold women back and deprives finance sectors. These industries are traditionally male them of basic rights and opportunities. This reveals that dominant; thus we see that barriers in equal access to there is still much to be done. economic participation and gender-sensitive workplaces can only be overcome by removing gender stereotypes. While growing globally and recognizing the trends in the For that reason, Koç Group works to shift traditional norms world, we recognize the need to invest boldly in initiatives and to be a role model to improve this situation. More that address gender equality in the communities where information on Koç Group’s efforts on diversity and inclusion we’re operating. Therefore, it is critical for us to create can be found in the Empower People. Together section. the right environment to foster gender equality in our * The Sustainable Development Goals Report 2019. Koç Group Sustainability Report 2019 50 Gender Equality In Practice: Partnering with HeForShe Impact 10x10x10 Initiative UN Women launched the IMPACT 10x10x10 Also, as part of a global movement, we were able to leverage the power of our brands to reach out to consumers with gender-sensitive Initiative in 2015 in order to engage key decision communications. It was the first step to position gender inequality as makers in governments, corporations, and one of the top priority areas within the Group and to that end develop universities around the world to drive change a holistic approach to address the challenges and overcome gender biases. In this context, we developed a Guide to Gender Equality in from the top. IMPACT Champions make gender Communications. We reached out to an extensive audience including equality an institutional priority by committing to our employees, individuals in the value chain, as well as specific groups like marketing and communications experts and agencies to shift gender advance and achieve gender equality for all. norms in Turkey. In order to mainstream the approach introduced by the Guide, we partnered with the key stakeholders including Turkish Mustafa V. Koç, former Chairperson of the Board of Directors of Koç Industry and Business Association (TUSIAD), Advertisers Association, Holding, was also selected as an Impact Champion. He supported Advertising Foundation, Association of Communications Consulting the efforts personally and served as one of the ambassadors of Companies, Public Relations Association of Turkey and Association of the campaign. Koç Holding Chairperson Ömer M. Koç took on the Corporate Communicators. leadership role after late Mustafa V. Koç. In 2019, we received Sustainable Business Awards by Sustainability As a HeForShe Champion, we initiated a movement within the Koç Group Academy Turkey, in the field of Sustainability Communications with the companies, where creating role models could play a significant role in works carried out in Gender Equality in Communications. changing people’s minds. Our Group companies developed programs in line with the needs of their respective sectors, including outreach activities to attract and retain women for manufacturing and engineering jobs, as well as specially designed trainings to support women reach senior management positions. Koç Group Sustainability Report 2019 51 Corporate Governance and Risk Management Managing sustainability across diverse industries and Ethics and Transparency structures can be a challenging task. Our tailor-made Strong corporate governance, ethics and transparency play approach allows us to integrate sustainability into our an important role in our success. We have extensive global business strategies by setting a central framework and operations with numerous stakeholders around the world. implementing through senior management in each Therefore, it is crucial that the Group continues to earn business. This distinctive way of managing sustainability their trust while ensuring high ethical standards and the enhances our competitive advantage, enables a cooperation of both internal and external stakeholders. continuously improving business environment and means we get the win-win of an overarching perspective that also The Koç Group Code of Ethics and Implementation reflects the specifics of the industries we work in. The Koç Group Code of Ethics and Implementation Principles provides guidance for all Koç Group employees As Koç Group, we believe that on value-based and legally irreproachable conduct. Our aim is to provide clear guidance, to protect our employees, robust corporate governance companies, and business partners by outlining the basic practice is key to the long-term rules of conduct and ethical issues within the Group. We productivity and success of the update the Code of Ethics and Implementation Principles to widen its scope and to comprise ever emerging issues as it Group Companies by helping to is necessary. improve performance and mitigate risks. For details on Corporate Each Group Company's Human Resources Department is responsible for ensuring that employees read and Governance, please refer to Koç understand the Code of Ethics and Business Conduct and Holding 2019 Annual Report. Implementation Principles, and to document the employees' commitment to their execution. Employees can report any suspected violations or concerns via email or a telephone line. Any such report is kept strictly confidential and is not shared with any third party. Our Code of Ethics and Business Conduct also extends to our business partners. The Koç Group Code of Ethics and Implementation Principles document can be accessed here. Koç Group Sustainability Report 2019 52 Countering Bribery and Corruption have adopted an approach that is aligned with the Group’s Corruption undermines competitive and fair business, overall risk policies and limits. Risk Management Committee reduces investor confidence and impacts both regional is responsible for the overall process of risk management, and global economic growth. To conduct our operations which is the highest body within the group reporting directly with integrity and without any form of bribery and corruption to the Board of Directors. Risk Management Committee is essential part of our core business approach. Our is composed of two Board members, the committee chair business principles require us to comply with all rules and being an independent member. The Board of Directors is regulations in each sector where we operate and not to periodically being informed regarding the outputs of the accept any form of corruption. We aim to act with integrity work carried out in the Risk Management Committee, which towards our stakeholders while following our business convenes at least 6 times per year. In 2019, the Committee principles. At Koç Group, we are rigorous about fighting worked to assess the Company’s risk profile and identify the bribery and corruption. The Koç Group Code of Ethics and measures to be taken in risk prone areas. Implementation Principles states a zero-tolerance policy on corruption and demands compliance with all relevant The speed and unprecedented scale of change introduces laws and our own business principles. All employees and new risks constantly. We believe risk management is a all third parties acting on behalf of Koç Group are required value-generating activity. Including non-financial risks, such to comply with the rules on the fight against corruption and as climate change, talent management, biodiversity and with the applicable laws and regulations. In 2019, 21,106 occupational health and safety to our risk management employees have received trainings on anti-bribery, which is approach enables us to deal global trends, improve almost one third of all our employees. competitiveness of our Group. The Sustainability and CSR Unit is tasked with overseeing non-financial risks Risk Management amid an accelerating change agenda. The Unit monitors Sustainability management is closely tied to our the global trends and developments, regularly follows up management of risk and opportunities. Since our foundation with stakeholders and promotes improved sustainability we have achieved long-term success through our robust performance to manage these risks and address them in approach toward risk management. We are investing and a pro-active manner. This approach enables us to identify preparing our companies for the future while maintaining potential risk and impact areas in advance and helps our prudence. Group companies to take necessary actions to mitigate and manage non-financial risks. At Koç Group, risks are managed by the Finance Department with the oversight of the Board of Directors, in For further details on our risk and opportunity management coordination with all Group presidents. Koç Holding’s Risk and a detailed description of significant risks, please refer Management function was established to further develop to Koç Holding 2019 Annual Report. More information on the Group’s risk policies, limits and review mechanisms. how we manage sustainability risks and opportunities is This risk management function leverages the risk available under “Empower people. Together” and “Act for infrastructures in each of the Company’s businesses, which the planet. Together” sections of this report. Koç Group Sustainability Report 2019 53 Sustainability Governance Across Koç Group In order to address today’s pressing global issues such as enables us to take holistic view and implement it through climate crisis, resource scarcity, inequality and inclusive senior management level across diverse industries we growth the private sector needs to integrate environmental operate in. and social considerations into decision-making processes and policies. Effective management of sustainability at The way we perceive sustainability, and how we decide Group level requires having committed leadership and clear to incorporate it our business strategy enhances our direction. competitive advantage, reduces costs and risks, increases revenues, helps safeguard the value of non-financial assets Sustainable thinking is embedded firmly at the core of Koç and creates value for our stakeholders. Group’s business practices. Sustainability management Koç Holding Departments Sustainability Coordination Platform Koç Group Issue-Based Committees Corporate Communications and Koç Holding Corporate Communications and Environment External Relations Director External Affairs Koç Holding Sustainability and CSR Innovation and Technology Coordinator Human Resources Industrial Relations and OHS Arçelik Sustainability and Corporate Affairs Legal Counsel Director Aygaz Corporate Communications Manager Strategic Planning Ford Otosan Corporate Communications Manager Finance (Investor Relations, Corporate Governance, Risk Koç Sistem Segment Marketing and Corporate Communication Director Management) Otokar Finance Manager / Corporate Communications Manager Opet Corporate Communications Manager Otokoç Technology and Strategy Director Tat HR Director / Product Development and Quality Manager Tofaş External Relations Director Tüpraş Corporate Communications Manager/ Environment Manager Türk Traktör HR Director/Investor Relations Manager Yapı Kredi CSR and Sustainability Manager Koç Group Sustainability Community Koç Group Sustainability Report 2019 54 Sustainability Governance Across Koç Group How we coordinate sustainability at Group level Group’s publicly listed companies and report directly to General Managers or Assistant General Managers in their Our sustainability governance model at Group level respective organizations. The Platform members meet twice provides a strong anchorage for implementing the a year to forge cross-sectoral links, to review global trends Lead. Together strategy. Sustainability and CSR Unit is and their potential impact, to discuss material issues and responsible for the overall coordination of sustainability to share listed companies’ strategic priorities and best management at Koç Group. The Unit is led by Koç practices. Holding Corporate Communications and External Affairs Departments’ Director, who reports directly to the CEO. Members of the Platform are: It ensures that we focus on embedding sustainability into • Arçelik Sustainability and Corporate Affairs Director the business by implementing decisions in the relevant • Aygaz Corporate Communications Manager business areas. • Ford Otosan Corporate Communications Manager • KoçSistem Segment Marketing and Corporate The main objectives and responsibilities of the Koç Holding Communication Director Sustainability and CSR Unit include: • Opet Corporate Communications Manager • Otokar Finance Manager / Corporate Communications • providing guidance for Koç Group companies on Manager cross-cutting issues, • Otokoç Technology and Strategy Director • creating platforms to build a community of practice, • Tat HR Director / Product Development and Quality • building relationships with internal and external Manager stakeholders at different levels, • Tofaş External Relations Director • acting as a hub for learning and development of • Tüpraş Corporate Communications Director managing sustainability priorities. • Türk Traktör HR Director/Investor Relations Manager • Yapı Kredi CSR and Sustainability Manager Koç Group Sustainability Coordination Platform Sustainability Coordination Platform is mainly responsible Clear responsibilities and decision-making processes for informing Group companies about Koç Holding’s assure the efficiency of our operations. Koç Group sustainability agenda. The Platform contributes to the Sustainability Coordination Platform is supported by a development of shared standards among the Sustainability wider network, known as sustainability community and Community, strengthens stakeholder engagement, tracks is managed by the Holding’s Sustainability and CSR sustainability performance management and develops best Coordinator. The Platform consists of members from Koç practice in line with Koç Group Sustainability Guide. Koç Group Sustainability Report 2019 55 Sustainability Governance Across Koç Group Koç Group Issue-Based Committees How sustainability is organized at Koç Group: The role of Koç Holding Sustainability and CSR Unit Three different issue-based committees monitor the progress – and potential risks – of the Lead. Together and The Unit focuses to build a community of practitioners and report to Koç Holding C-level in their respective areas. provide thought leadership to facilitate collective progress. Committee members meet several times throughout the The Unit brings together sustainability professionals from year. The Sustainability and CSR Unit works closely with Platform companies, creates an environment for sharing issue-based committees within the Group. Members of the and learning, introduces external know-how to reach Unit regularly attend committee meetings to review how international standards and scale best practices in line with sustainability and business strategies are aligned and to the Koç Group Sustainability Guide. ensure that the strategic direction and actions taken are in line with Koç Holding’s sustainability agenda. Koç Group Sustainability Guide Koç Group Sustainability Community Through the Guide, we aim to: • Build group-wide sustainability leadership capacity, Koç Group Sustainability Community consist of • Develop an integrated approach for sustainability, Sustainability Coordination Platform, Koç Group Issue• Align sustainability practices such as issue Based Communities and Koç Holding Departments. management, stakeholder engagement, setting up The Community operates closely with the Sustainability and monitoring key performance indicators (KPIs) and Coordination Platform in order to implement sustainability implementation and dissemination of best practices, strategies within relevant functions of Group companies. across industries and companies The Community brings together mid-level managers from • Create a shared understanding for risk management a wide range of expertise areas, including environment, within Koç Group companies. human resources, innovation, digital transformation, auditing, purchasing, legal and corporate communications functions. The Community meets twice a year under the leadership of the Sustainability and CSR Unit to share best practices, discuss industry-specific issues, develop stakeholder engagement and highlight the contribution of each function within the overall Lead. Together strategy. These meetings include, but are not limited to, team members from companies represented in the Platform. Koç Group Sustainability Report 2019 56 Making It Happen with Stakeholders As Koç Group, we believe collaboration with stakeholders requires a goal-oriented approach and our foremost Lead. Together sets us a framework for objective is to consistently create value for our stakeholders. Therefore, our sustainability approach making collective progress and helps and the way we manage it, is aligned with SDG 17. The us harness the power of our network to 2030 Agenda requires effective collaborations between drive positive change and develop every all stakeholders and an integrated approach in order to achieve the seventeen SDGs. person and organization we engage with. Increasing partnerships with external Stakeholder outreach and integration is a key driver for stakeholders is crucial for progress group companies’ success. We created a comprehensive and managing such collaborations in approach to identify expectations and opinions of our stakeholders on diverse topics, including environment, a more efficient way. Our stakeholders human and employee rights, transparency and ethics, expect us to lead by example. When we innovation, diversity and inclusion in order to bring grow, others grow. When we innovate stakeholder perspective into our sustainability strategy. We aim to meet the expectations and interests of shareholders, for the better, others follow. When we investors, employees, group companies, distributors, create more added value and respond customers, civil society organizations, public institutions, to changes in technology, business industry associations and universities in a transparent and equal way. and society, we start a ripple effect that extends out to all our industries, Each Group company engages with stakeholders at our business partners and the wider different levels which provide essential input for us in creating sustainability strategies and practices. Stakeholder community. engagement is also tracked via management performance targets. 102-42 Koç Group Sustainability Report 2019 57 Making It Happen with Stakeholders Stakeholder Groups Engagement Relevancy Material Issue Relevancy Our response (Related report sections) • Digital transformation • To ensure sustainable and profitable growth • Innovation Shareholders Corporate Governance and Risk Management • To deliver the digital transformation and innovation agenda • Social responsibility programmes and Investors • To become a role model that drives change in society • Stakeholder dialogue Grow the Business. Together • Risk Management • Employee rights and human rights • Talent management • To be more appealing to the best emerging talent • Employee engagement Empower people. Together Employees • To create an inclusive culture for a collaborative workplace • Occupational health and safety Corporate Governance and Risk Management • Diversity and inclusion • Ethics and transparency • Countering bribery and corruption • Leadership in sustainability • To transform our business for the better • Climate change management Grow the Business. Together Group Companies • To provide guidance on managing sustainability • Waste management Act for the Planet. Together • Biodiversity • Water stewardship • Leadership in sustainability Suppliers & • Responsibility in the value chain Distributors • Supporting local development • To support the transformation towards sustainability of SMEs Grow the Business. Together • To increase the level of commitment related to sustainability • Climate change management Strengthen communities. Together issues • Waste management • Biodiversity • Water stewardship • Gender Equality • Customer satisfaction and • To serve our customers better, faster, with a fully Customers customized experience customer orientation Grow the Business. Together • Privacy and cybersecurity • Community investment programmes • To unify efforts in order to offer solutions to sustainability issues • Stakeholder dialogue • Climate change management Strengthen communities. Together Civil Society Organization • To act in line with the expectations of local Communities • Waste management Act for the Planet. Together • To commit resources on areas that matter to stakeholders • To enable sustainability of impact • Biodiversity • Water stewardship • Gender Equality • Community investment programmes Governmental Authorities • To collaborate for scalable action in order to solve complex • Stakeholder dialogue Strengthen communities. Together and Entities sustainability issues • Leadership in sustainability • Community investment programmes International Organizations • To develop scalable action in order to solve complex • Stakeholder dialogue Strengthen communities. Together sustainability issues • Leadership in sustainability • To initiate joint action in order to contribute to crossindustry issues • Leadership in sustainability Strengthen communities. Together Industry Associations • Digital transformation Grow the Business. Together • To initiate self-assessment, self-regulation tools for the transformation of the business world • Partnerships, cooperation and joint projects, support for • Community investment programmes Universities research projects, know-how transfer through internship • Stakeholder dialogue Strengthen communities. Together 102-40 / 102-43 / 102-44 and courses • Leadership in sustainability Koç Group Sustainability Report 2019 58 Making It Happen with Stakeholders The way we engage with stakeholders We engage with stakeholders on an ongoing basis and aim according to the potential to create value, enable further to establish continued trust-based dialogue. There are three innovation, and foster creativity. This kind of two-way levels of stakeholder engagement regarding sustainability communication develops meaningful opportunities and issues at Koç Group companies which help us to improve results as partnerships lasting for a pre-determined period. our business and create added value for all stakeholders. Increasing partnerships with external stakeholders is an The frequency of stakeholder communication depends on important source of innovation. the nature, expectations and needs of the target audience. 3. Multi-stakeholder Initiatives: Addressing and tackling 1. Supports: This level of engagement includes supporting complex environmental and social issues requires multievents aiming to increase awareness or capacity building. stakeholder initiatives. In line of our sustainability leadership It covers one way and short-term engagement with vision, our stakeholders expect us to trigger positive stakeholders such as sponsorships, scholarships, and change by reaching out to the whole community. With this in donations. mind, we are ever-present in local and international multistakeholder initiatives that gather different parties such as 2. Partnerships: We believe that in order to achieve private and public sector, international organizations, nonSDGs, strong partnerships are necessary at all levels and governmental bodies and universities to address material between governments, the private sector and civil society. topics in large scale. Koç Holding takes part in multiWe work together with external stakeholder partners such stakeholder initiatives where an issue has wider effects as private and public sector, international organizations, within the society and requires the presence of various non-governmental bodies, universities to manage common stakeholders in order to Lead. Together narrative. and material sustainability issues. We assess partnerships 102-42 / 102-43 / 102-44 Koç Group Sustainability Report 2019 59 Making It Happen with Stakeholders Stakeholder Groups & Engagement Methods Koç Group has operations in different sectors such as investor decisions and stakeholder perceptions. Thus, we energy, automotive, consumer durables, finance, retail, planned to conduct a study in order to re-understand the food and information technologies which have widespread perceptions and expectations of stakeholders regarding outreach throughout the society. This gives us the Koç Holding's sustainability performance from an ESG responsibility to assess and evaluate risks and opportunities perspective. In addition to our continuous communications and show leadership in the sustainability transformation to our stakeholders, we will carry out a widely applied of industries and the society. Environment, social and analysis in the time ahead. governance (ESG) factors have an increasing impact on Stakeholder Groups Engagement Platforms & Tools Communication frequency General Assembly meeting, meetings upon requests in different Shareholders countries, road shows and conferences, quarterly webcasts, investor relations bulletin, website, and the iPad app; e-mails, teleconferences, At least once a week and Investors financial (quarterly and annually) and sustainability reports, credible stock exchange indices Intranet, digital communication tools, monthly internal magazine “News Employees from Us”, meetings and organizations on regular basis, Website and the On a daily basis iPad apps, employee engagement surveys, volunteering programmes Internal meetings and workshops, issue, function, and industry Group Companies specific committees On a daily basis Anatolian Meetings (with the participation of CEO, Chairman of Suppliers & the Board and Executives), “News from Us” magazine, capacity At least once a week Distributors building trainings, workshops Daily support by Communication form on the website, phone or e-mail, call telephone and email. Customers centers, satisfaction surveys Once a year by survey Memberships, cooperation and joint projects, workshops, project Civil Society Organization partnerships, annual and sustainability reports. Every two weeks Governmental Authorities Every two weeks Workshops, cooperation on joint projects and Entities Multi-stakeholder initiatives and partnerships, cooperation and International Organizations joint projects, roundtables, memberships Every two weeks Multi-stakeholder initiatives and partnerships, participation at Industry Associations management level, memberships Every two weeks Partnerships, cooperation and joint projects, support for research Universities projects, know-how transfer through internship and courses Every two weeks 102-47 / 102-49 Koç Group Sustainability Report 2019 60 Materiality Analysis With many industries we operate in, we have a great issues for Koç Holding and roles and expectations from Koç potential for positive impact. Sustainable economic Holding. The stakeholders included government institutions, development can only be possible if environmental and international organizations, NGO’s, business organizations, social needs are met. In order to address these needs research centers, opinion leaders, start-ups and universities and be part of solutions, we work in collaboration with our both at national and international level. stakeholders. In line with our strategic approach Lead. Together, where sustainability is put to the core of our We enriched the stakeholder opinion and vision with decision making, we regularly revisit our material issues. the external trends, in order to have a more thorough Most recently, materiality analysis was conducted in early assessment of external opinions on sustainability issues 2019, prior to publishing Sustainability Report 2018. The relevant to Koç Group. We made this possible through aim of this analysis was to validate our sustainability the assessment of the global initiatives and decision approach Lead.Together and review material sustainability mechanisms and inclusion of these outcomes to the issues for Koç Holding. By reviewing these material issues materiality analysis. These parties, which are directly periodically, we enable to both meet stakeholder and and indirectly linked to the many business areas we are investor expectations, generate shared value for all our active in are also important in terms of setting the global stakeholders on numerous industries and areas we operate sustainability trends. World Economic Forum’s The Global in and be in line with global sustainability trends. In order Risks Report 2019, UN Sustainable Development Goals, to achieve this, we have a comprehensive methodology, Sustainability Accounting Standards Board (SASB) including Group strategy, internal and external materiality map considering an industry based assessment stakeholders, global trends and SASB 4 Factor Analysis. of potential impacts on companies, 2019 Strategy of Presidency of Republic of Turkey and other lawmaker Materiality Analysis institutions are some of the many parties which were included to the study. Priorities for Koç Holding Priorities for Stakeholders Koç Holding Annual Reports and External Trends We included our business and sustainability strategy to the Investor Kit Stakeholder Analysis study in order to determine our material issues. Additionally, Sustainability Approach we included the SASB 4 Factor Analysis, which reflects SASB 4 Factor Analysis an integrated thinking and management structure in our analysis. It provides a risk analysis of the main sustainability Stakeholder expectations and appeals are critical in order issues, based on likelihood and impact assessment. We to understand the needs of the society and the planet. analysed each issue, whether they have a direct financial In line with this, stakeholders were asked to respond to impact on the business, with respect to legal, regulatory questions on critical mega trends and sustainability issues, and policy drivers, their potential to create a differentiation implications of megatrends and issues on emerging opportunity regarding competitiveness and potential markets, business’ role for contributing the SDGs, material innovation opportunities. Koç Group Sustainability Report 2019 61 Materiality Analysis Important Very Important Extremely Important Priorities for Stakeholders 100 17 90 10 80 1 18 20 The materiality analysis, which 11 6 8 70 2 3 served as a validation of our 4 19 12 22 16 priority issues revealed results 7 60 14 which comply with our existing 5 15 material issues such as digital 50 21 9 transformation, innovation, 40 13 talent management, diversity and inclusion, and climate 30 change. Risk management, ethics and transparency, 20 countering bribery and 20 30 40 50 60 70 80 90 100 corruption, employee Priorities for Koç Holding engagement and occupational health and safety have always been part of the way we do business. We will continue 1. Ethics and transparency 12. Responsibility in the value chain to manage and report our 2. Countering bribery and corruption 13. Customer satisfaction and customer orientation performance on these issues. 3. Talent management 14. Privacy and cybersecurity Furthermore, privacy and 4. Employee rights and human rights 15. Supporting local development cybersecurity came out as an 5. Employee engagement 16. Leadership in sustainability emerging issue which may 6. Occupational health and safety 17. Climate change management have a potential impact on our 7. Diversity and inclusion 18. Waste management business in the near future. 8. Digital transformation 19. Biodiversity 9. Product quality and safety 20. Water stewardship 102-47 / 102-49 10. Innovation 21. Community investment programmemes 11. Risk management 22. Stakeholder dialogue (Extremely important and very important material issues are marked with red) Koç Group Sustainability Report 2019 62 Performance Indicators Social Performance Indicators * IR = (Number of injuries in given period*1,000,000) / Total hours worked in given period ** OIFR: (Number of occupational illnesses in given period*1,000,000) / Total hours worked in given period *** LTIFR: (Number of lost time injuries in given period*1,000,000) / Total hours worked in given period The calculation excludes fatalities. LTIFR values of 2017 are based on total recordable data, while since 2018 calculations are based on only lost time injuries. Koç Group Sustainability Report 2019 63 Environmental Performance Indicators Energy Savings and Reduction in Greenhouse Gas Emissions by Year Water Consumption (m3) Waste by type (tons) * All calculations are made in line with the Regulation on Waste Management. Koç Group Sustainability Report 2019 64 GRI Standard Disclosure Page Number(s) and/or URL(s) GRI Index GRI 101: FOUNDATION 2016 GRI 102: GENERAL DISCLOSURES 2016 Organizational Profile 102-1 3 102-2 https://www.koc.com.tr/en-us/activity-fields/sectors https://www.koc.com.tr/en-us/activity-fields/list-of-brands 102-3 https://www.koc.com.tr/en-us/about/headquarters 102-4 https://www.koc.com.tr/en-us/activity-fields/international-network-of-koc-group 102-5 https://www.koc.com.tr/en-us/investor-relations/corporate-overview-and-governance/shareholder-structure 102-6 https://www.koc.com.tr/en-us/investor-relations/financial-statements-and-statistics/Annual%20Reports/Koc-Holding-2019-Annual-Report.pdf 102-7 https://www.koc.com.tr/en-us/investor-relations/financial-statements-and-statistics/Annual%20Reports/Koc-Holding-2019-Annual-Report.pdf 102-8 25, 63 102-9 22 102-10 https://www.koc.com.tr/en-us/investor-relations/financial-statements-and-statistics/Annual%20Reports/Koc-Holding-2019-Annual-Report.pdf 102-11 9, 10, 22, 31, 34, 36, 37, 47, 52, 53, 54, 56, 57 102-12 3, 9, 10, 22, 31, 34, 36, 37, 47, 52, 53, 54, 56, 57, 60 102-13 31, 51 Strategy 102-14 4-5 102-15 9, 11 GRI 102: Ethics and Integrity General Disclosures 2016 102-16 52, https://www.koc.com.tr/tr-tr/hakkinda/Documents/Koc-Group-Code-of-Ethics-and-Business-Conduct.pdf Governance 102-18 54-56 https://www.koc.com.tr/en-us/about/organization-chart Stakeholder Engagement 102-40 58 102-41 31 102-42 57-59 102-43 58-59 102-44 58-59 Reporting Practice For the Materiality Disclosures Service, GRI 102-45 3 Services reviewed that the 102-46 3 GRI content index is clearly 102-47 9, 10, 11, 62 presented and the references for Disclosures 102-40 to 102-48 No such restatements were made in this report 102-49 align with appropriate 102-49 3, 9, 10, 11, 62 sections in the body of the report. For the Materiality 102-50 3 Disclosures Service, GRI 102-51 3 Services reviewed that the GRI content index is clearly 102-52 3 presented and the references 102-53 3 for Disclosures 102-40 to 102-49 align with appropriate 102-54 3 sections in the body of 102-55 65, 66 the report. The service was performed on the English 102-56 Information and data presented in this report has not been independently verified. version of the report. Koç Group Sustainability Report 2019 65 GRI Standard Disclosure Page Number(s) and/or URL(s) GRI Index GRI 200: ECONOMIC STANDARDS SERIES 2016 Economic Performance GRI 103: Management Approach 2016 103-1 13, 14 103-2 13, 14 103-3 13, 14 GRI 201: Economic Performance 2016 201-1 https://www.koc.com.tr/en-us/investor-relations/financial-statements-and-statistics/Annual%20Reports/KocHolding-2019-Annual-Report.pdf 201-2 https://www.koc.com.tr/en-us/investor-relations/financial-statements-and-statistics/Annual%20Reports/KocHolding-2019-Annual-Report.pdf GRI 300: ENVIRONMENTAL STANDARDS SERIES 2016 Energy GRI 103: Management Approach 2016 103-1 36-38 103-2 36-38 103-3 36-38 GRI 302: Energy 2016 302-1 39, 64 302-3 39, 64 302-4 39, 64 Water GRI 103: Management Approach 2016 103-1 36-38 103-2 36-38 103-3 36-38 GRI 303: Water 2016 303-1 40, 64 303-3 40, 64 Emissions GRI 103: Management Approach 2016 103-1 36-38 103-2 36-38 103-3 36-38 GRI 305: Emissions 2016 305-1 39, 64 305-2 39, 64 305-4 39, 64 305-5 39, 64 Waste GRI 103: Management Approach 2016 103-1 36-38 103-2 36-38 103-3 36-38 GRI 306: Effluents and Waste 2016 306-2 42,64 Suplier Environmental Assessment GRI 103: Management Approach 2016 103-1 22 103-2 22 103-3 22 GRI 308: Suplier Environmental 308-2 22 Assessment 2016 Koç Group Sustainability Report 2019 66 GRI Standard Disclosure Page Number(s) and/or URL(s) GRI Index GRI 400: SOCIAL STANDARDS SERIES 2016 Employment GRI 103: Management Approach 2016 103-1 24-27 103-2 24-27 103-3 24-27 GRI 401: Employment 2016 401-1 63 401-3 31 Occupational Health and Safety GRI 103: Management Approach 2016 103-1 34 103-2 34 103-3 34 GRI 403: Occupational Health and 403-1 34 Safety 2016 403-2 34 Training and Education GRI 103: Management Approach 2016 103-1 26-27 103-2 26-27 103-3 26-27 GRI 404: Training and Education 404-1 27 404-2 27-29 404-3 33 Diversity and Equal Opportunity GRI 103: Management Approach 2016 103-1 31 103-2 31 103-3 31 GRI 405: Diversity and Equal 405-1 63 Opportunity 2016 Non-discrimination GRI 103: Management Approach 2016 103-1 31 103-2 31 103-3 31 GRI 406: Non-discrimination 406-1 31 Supplier Social Assessment GRI 103: Management Approach 2016 103-1 22 103-2 22 103-3 22 GRI 414: Supplier Social Assessment 414-1 22 2016 Koç Group Sustainability Report 2019 67 GRI Standard Disclosure Page Number(s) and/or URL(s) GRI Index MATERIAL TOPICS Digital Transformation GRI 103: Management Approach 2016 103-1 14, 15, 18 103-2 14, 15, 18 103-3 14, 15, 18 Innovation GRI 103: Management Approach 2016 103-1 19-21 103-2 19-21 103-3 19-21 Risk Management GRI 103: Management Approach 2016 103-1 52, 53 103-2 52, 53 103-3 52, 53 Koç Group Sustainability Report 2019 68 Acknowledgements We would like to thank following individuals and companies for their support and collaboration. Sustainability Narrative and Design: Radley Yeldar Sustainability Performance and Reporting: S360 Report Design: Caretta Communication & Consultancy Photography: Muhsin Ergün For more information Koç Holding Corporate Communications and External Affairs Sustainability and CSR Unit sustainability@koc.com.tr
