Our innovations are giving millions of people the chance to experience more. Annual Report 2019/20 NORTHERN LIGHTS JOKKMOKK, SWEDEN JANUARY 25, 1:15 PM Content THIS IS ELEKTA / This is Elekta 1 BUSINESS OVERVIEW CEO comment 6 Market and trends 8 Strategic framework 10 Financial targets and outcomes 14 Offering Geographical overview 15 26 A global leader in Risk management The share 30 34 ­Precision Radiation IN-DEPTH SUSTAINABILITY REPORT Medicine Introduction 36 Elekta is a global leader in radiotherapy solutions to fight c ­ ancer and Access to Radiotherapy 38 neurological disease. We have a broad offering of advanced s­ olutions Business Ethics 41 for delivering the most efficient radiotherapy treatments and are Sustainable Production 46 number 1 or 2 in all geographical markets. People in Focus 49 >4,500 Sustainability governance and reporting principles 55 GRI content index 59 Installed base systems Auditor’s report 62 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE REPORT Chairman’s comment 64 Corporate governance 2019/20 65 Internal control Board of Directors 73 76 Solutions Executive Management 78 Elekta offers leading solutions in both radioAuditor’s report 80 therapy treatment and oncology informatics systems for oncology clinics. FINANCIAL REPORTING ~60% of net sales Board of Director’s report 83 Consolidated income statement 92 Consolidated statement of comprehensive income 92 Oncology Informatics Solutions Consolidated balance sheet 94 Changes in consolidated equity 96 Consolidated cash flow statement 98 Financial statements – MR-Linac Linac Parent Company 100 Solutions Solutions Notes 102 Signatures of the Board 136 Auditor’s report 137 Brachy­ ­ Neuro Solutions Solutions Glossary 141 Definitions 143 Alternative performance measures 144 Five year review and key figures Annual General Meeting 2020 147 Cover Service Elekta delivers high quality after-market About the Annual Report ­services with a global n ­ etwork, generating Pages 81–136 constitute the statutory annual recurring revenues. report, which has been audited. This report also includes Elekta’s sustainability information. Elekta presents a sustainability report prepared in ~40% of net sales accordance with the GRI Standards, Core option, and a sustainability report in accordance with the Swedish Annual Accounts Act. A solid platform for continued leadership Strong underlying Innovative demand collaborations The demand for radiotherapy and cancer care is growing, Elekta has been a driving force behind the technologiglobally supported by several underlying trends: cal progress in radiotherapy for almost five decades. Our innovations are developed in close and long-term • Increasing cancer incidence due to ageing and collaboration with leading researchers and clinics to ­growing population meet the needs of clinicians, enabling them to improve • Large radiotherapy investment needs in many their patients’ lives. markets 10% • Value-based healthcare puts focus on improving patient outcomes of net sales spent • Continuous strive for better precision and on R&D optimized ­workflows Committed to Strong financial responsible business position Elekta is a global organization with a local presence Our strategy “Thought and market leadership in that thinks forward and challenges conventions to Precision Radiation Medicine” provides the framework ­promote access to radiotherapy for all. for profitable and sustainable growth. • A business model and strategy that generates >4,000 strong sustainable growth and cash flow • Solid balance sheet with strong financial position employees in • Good profitability with potential for further m­ argin >30 improvement countries Improved sales and EBITA Although affected by the pandemic in 19/20 NET SALES EBITA AND EBITA MARGIN NET DEBT/EBITDA SEK M SEK M % MULTIPLE 16,000 3,000 24 3.0 15,000 2,500 21 2.5 14,000 2,000 18 2.0 13,000 1,500 15 1.5 12,000 1,000 12 1.0 11,000 500 9 0.5 10,000 0 6 0.0 17/18 18/19 19/20 17/18 18/19 19/20 17/18 18/19 19/20 ELEKTA ANNUAL REPORT 2019/20 1 Cancer doesn’t care who you are or where you live. You have cancer. Every day, those words are told to almost 50,000 people around the world. It doesn’t just affect them; it also affects the people around them. Elekta is working tirelessly on solutions that improve cancer care, so that patients and their loved ones get to share more special moments. ELEKTA ANNUAL REPORT 2019/20 3 It’s global and it affects everyone. Cancer is a global disease and the world’s second most common cause of death. The number of people diagnosed is expected to keep growing, especially in lowand middle-income countries where cancer care resources today more scarce. Elekta is working to broaden availability through new solutions and training so that radiotherapy becomes a ­ vailable to everyone. ”Our innovations help clinicians fight cancer every day. And we won’t stop developing.” Gustaf Salford Acting President and CEO BUSINESS OVERVIEW ELEKTA ANNUAL REPORT 2019/20 5 BUSINESS OVERVIEW / CEO COMMENT Showing resilience and preparing for growth While the Covid-19 pandemic made the end of our fiscal year challenging, we continued our focus on innovation and made great progress in our long-term fight against cancer. A year impacted by Covid-19 and Brexit This year was in many ways affected by the unfolding events related to Covid-19, which is hard to imagine and unprecedented in our global economy. The pandemic hit Elekta with “Elekta managed well full effect in our fourth quarter, making it challenging to access our customers while they were focusing on fighting through the initial phase the pandemic. Despite all this, Elekta managed well through the initial of this global crisis, phase of this global crisis, demonstrating resilience and commitment to our customers and the patients they treat. We demostrating resilience did so by enabling close to normal uptime in our installed base and by continuing to install new devices. We are a global and commitment to our company and our strong local presence and devoted employees made a true difference for our customers in times of travel customers and the restrictions and lock downs. Also we focused on driving digitalization initiatives, e.g. remote monitoring and maintepatients they treat.” nance of our installed devices and digital applications to allow for c­ ustomers to work remotely. Prior to the corona crisis, the first half of our year was impacted by preparation and mitigation for Brexit, since our largest hub is located in the UK. The consequences for our and the deployment of assessing biologic changes within ­ business were an increase in inventory and currency effects the tumor. With the GenesisCare partnership in the US we due to large currency fluctuations. Overall, for the full year, reached 80 ordered Unity systems in May, thereby surpassing we secured a modest growth in revenue and in EBITA. our Mid-2020 order target of 75 systems. Even more importantly, After the fiscal year closed Richard Hausmann decided to the clinical results and feedback from deployed Unity systems resign after four years as Elekta’s CEO. During his tenure our are outstanding. We now look forward to the next stage of the company managed to revolutionize cancer treatment with commercialization with Unity, focused on further market adopour breakthrough technology, Elekta Unity. Richard has had tion and collecting clinical evidence from our customers. a long and distinguished career that has taken him all over Our Elekta Digital Program has a breakthrough potential in the world, and I wish him all the best when he now resigns. these times; both in our software portfolio with MOSAIQ® Plaza, and our acquisitions of SmartClinic and ­ProKnow® solutions. Continued focus on innovation In May, we acquired Kaiku Health, which means that we now for long term growth connect directly with the patients, to manage side-­effects Elekta continues the progress with Unity, marking the shift ­ and attain real-world patient reported data. This strengthto new opportunities in the fight against cancer. We have ened our digital portfolio and enables our strategy of cancer reached several milestones with more systems in clinical use treatment process digitalization. 6 ELEKTA ANNUAL REPORT 2019/20 ”Cancer does not know any boundaries and ­neither does the ­fight against it.” We will continue to invest in innovations, and recently we Well positioned for future growth conducted successful product launches in the Neuro and Looking ahead, it is difficult to predict how many months Brachy business lines. We have brought many new innovaor quarters the Covid-19 crisis will continue and therefore we tions to the market over the years and our mission going refrain from giving guidance at this moment. In the shortforward is to continue to tirelessly fight cancer and to close term our commitment is to ensure that cancer treatments the gap of more than 10 000 radiotherapy devices in the can continue during the corona crisis. In the longer term we world. are convinced that the underlying demand for our solutions will continue to grow due to the large need for radiotherapy Increased emphasis on sustainability solutions around the world. The world is facing major environmental, resource-related We look forward to a year when we will take further steps and social challenges. We strive to conduct sustainable busiwith our technology in order to make our company, as well as ness both within our organization and in cooperation with our customers more resilient and cost efficient in these uncerothers. Since 2017 we have chosen to underwrite the UN tain times. Also our investments in innovations are key for our Global Compact and we continue to strongly support these long-term competitiveness, and we will release our new High principles. To strive for sustainability is an integral part of Productivity Linac with improved ease-of-use and decreased our strategy. Over the year we have emphasized this from footprint. ­a Board level with our Compensation and Sustainability Elekta colleagues all over the world made heroic efforts to Committee. Our ambition is to constantly work towards service our customers and complete installations. I would like increased diversity and foster a culture based on zero-­ to thank our employees, customers and shareholders for their tolerance of differentiation of ethnical background. Elekta’s dedication and firm commitment to continue the fight major contribution to a more sustainable world is our conagainst cancer. stant ambition to increase access to radiotherapy through innovation, not least highlighted by the launch of the firstever Linac in Rwanda on World Cancer Day, February 4th. Cancer doesn’t know any boundaries and neither does the fight against it. Gustaf Salford Acting President and CEO ELEKTA ANNUAL REPORT 2019/20 7 BUSINESS OVERVIEW / MARKET AND TRENDS Underlying trends supports market growth Several strong underlying trends are impacting the radiotherapy market, guiding its technological development and supporting its long-term growth. While the spread of Covid-19 increases economic uncertainty in the short term, it accelerates the trend towards value-based care in the long term. Cancer trends Value-based Demographics and increasing incidence1) health care The world’s population is increasing and getting older. Among an expanding overall population, the Health care spending has historically grown faster over 65 cohort is set to rise by almost 80 percent by than GDP, and this trend is set to continue in the 2040. Gains against infections and other diseases, coming decades according to projections from the not least cardiovascular diseases in high-income OECD. The focus of health care spending has always countries2), are raising global life expectancy, leading been to improve patient outcomes. But with ageing to more cancer cases. populations and steadily advancing technology leadThe World Health Organization (WHO) estimates ing to both more patients and more treatment that there were about 18 million new cancer cases options, health care systems are under increasing globally in 2018. When accounting for the expected pressure to ensure that investments really do generdemographic changes, this number is projected to ate value in terms of better patient outcomes. increase to more than 29 million new cases by 2040. While health care and reimbursement systems vary When recent trends in incidence rates are factored from market to market, the trend to align economic in, the number of new cases is expected to double incentives with quality and cost-efficiency in treatto 37 million by 2040. ments is clear. Bridging the access to radiotherapy gap There are large structural differences in cancer care ESTIMATED GLOBAL and in the availability of radiotherapy between counCANCER BURDEN tries and regions. A study published in The Lancet in 2040 2015 estimated that while 50–60 percent of all cancer patients require radiotherapy, 40–60 percent of them lack access3). Investing in expanding radiotherapy 2018 x2 access in lowand middle-income countries would save lives and lead to substantial economic benefits, according to The Lancet study. For more information about what Elekta does to increase access to radiotherapy all over the world, see page 38. Cancer as a chronic condition 18.1 million 37.0 million As cancer survival rates have improved over time, Source: Ferlay J, Ervik M, Lam F, Colombet M, Mery L, Piñeros M, the number of people living with cancer as a chronic et al. Global cancer Observatory: cancer tomorrow. Lyon: condition has increased. Not only does this complex International Agency for Research on Cancer; 2019. condition require coordination between different care providers, but it also raises the risk of oligometastatic 1) WHO Report on Cancer 2020 2) https://www.eurekalert.org/pub_ disease. Radiotherapy plays an important role as a releases/2019-09/tl-pss083019.php 3) Atun et al, Expanding global access non-invasive treatment method for individual metasto radiotherapy, The Lancet Oncol 2015; 16, 1153-86 4) https://www. medrxiv.org/content/10.1101/2020.03.26.20044305v1 5) https://innovation. tases, improving rates of survival in chronic disease4). cms.gov/­innovation-models/radiation-oncology-model 8 ELEKTA ANNUAL REPORT 2019/20 PRIMARY DRIVERS The markets for radiotherapy and oncology informatics are driven by two p­ rimary factors: the number of patients and the continuous strive to improve patient outcomes. NUMBER OF LINACS PER ­MILLION PEOPLE 5 and more Between 3 and 5 Between 1 and 3 Less than 1 No reported machines © 2020 Mapbox © OpenStreetMap Radiotherapy trends Precision People working in radiotherapy have always strived for greater precision, sparing as much healthy tissue as possible while delivering a lethal dose of radiation to the tumor. The next steps on this quest are being enabled by improved on-board imaging, such as using magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) and its superior soft tissue contrast, and increased use of adaptive treatments, where treatment plans are updated throughout the course of the treatment taking changes in for example tumor anatomy into account. This improved precision enables the treatment of new cancer types and cancer in moving organs, and more precise treatments as well as re-treatments in oligometastatic disease. Hypofractionation Greater precision has paved the way for hypofracDigital trends tionation, where patients receive the planned dose in fewer fractions. This saves time for the patient and for the clinic, increasing the availability and The digital revolution has both speeded up and cost-­efficiency of radiotherapy treatment while improved decision making in health care and oncology. ­contributing to the value-­based care trend. A trend The large amount of data generated makes health aligning with the massive strain put on health care care suitable for tools such as artificial intelligence (AI) systems by Covid-19. and big data analytics. These are being built into existing software suites to further improve decision Optimized workflows support, analytics and workflow optimization. In operTrained health care staff are a scarce resource. ations and maintenance, data derived from equipment ­Making the best use of their time by optimizing and sensors can now be used to predict and prevent failautomating workflows and enabling staff to treat ures, reducing unplanned clinical downtime. more patients in less time, is an increasingly imporVirtual and remote care via video consultations, tant trend and one being aided by steady improveonline patient portals, patient wellness apps, remote ments in software and the possibility of precision-­ monitoring and more, are increasingly being adopted driven hypofractionation. as a way of bringing higher quality care to remote areas and overcoming shortages of oncologists, as well as responding to patient demand for more access points. F  or competitors please see page 83. ELEKTA ANNUAL REPORT 2019/20 9 BUSINESS OVERVIEW / STRATEGIC FRAMEWORK Strategic framework Elekta’s business rests on the purpose of helping clinicians improve patients’ lives through innovative precision-driven radiation therapy solutions. Our operations are based on a sustainable business model and a strategy set to achieve long-term, profitable growth and responsible value creation. Purpose Precision Helping clinicians improve patients’ lives means our solutions hit the target precisely, ­sparing healthy tissue and reducing negative side effects and complications for better Strategy patient ­outcomes. Thought and market leadership in Precision Radiation Medicine Radiation stands for using our core competence in radiation to help even more patients in need, Underpinning behavior wherever they are, with optimized and ­tailored Conduct business sustainably and live our values solutions. Medicine is to deliver software that help to improve Values Sustainability cancer s­ urvival rates by being ­efficient and We work as one team Access to Radiotherapy supportive, assisting We do what we say Business Ethics ­clinicians worldwide in We keep thinking forward Sustainable Production providing the highest People in Focus standard of care. Business model to foster innovations Elekta’s business model is to develop, manufacture and m ­ arket innovative solutions for precision radiation medicine, as well as to provide services and support for the installed base. Elekta’s innovations have resulted in precision-driven solutions for various forms of radiation therapy of cancer and treatment of neurological conditions, as well as informatics solutions that improve efficiency and personalize ­cancer care. 10 ELEKTA ANNUAL REPORT 2019/20 Strategic priorities Our strategy builds on our core competence in radiation. To realize our long-term strategy and purpose, we are actively working with a few carefully selected priority areas. Accelerate leadership in treatment s­ olutions efficiency. Capturing and analyzing data is also key in providOur customers’ main preoccupation is how they can use their ing insights into improving patient outcomes and reducing resources to optimally treat as many patients as possible. To costs – delivering value-based care. become and remain their partner of choice in this effort, we Elekta’s software solutions are not limited to radiation work closely with clinicians to bring innovations that really oncology but span the entire oncology field. Our solutions are make a difference to the market. What differentiates us is our patient centric in that they follow the patient through the relentless focus on radiation – and not on other types of entire journey, from diagnosis to survival. The OIS also offers treatment modalities. analytics and registries so that care staff can learn from real With our history and culture of innovation, our deep experworld data and continuously improve their operations and tise and experience in radiation, and our broad and strong decision making. The data rich environment in oncology is product portfolio we’re driving radiotherapy technology also well suited for implementing AI-based tools to further ­forward. With our customers and their patients on top of increase the value of our offering. our minds, we continuously strive to take the next leaps in making radiotherapy more efficient, affordable and smart, without ever compromising on quality. Expand the role of Precision Processes and enablers Radiation ­Medicine There are two aspects to expanding the role of Precision RadiDevelop our people and capabilities ation Medicine. Firstly, it is to expand to markets which today Our people make our success. We offer opportunities to are underserved in terms of radiotherapy. These countries and grow with new skills and leadership responsibilities, and regions are often not only lacking equipment such as linacs, to make a real difference. but also trained staff. Secondly, it is to use increased precision to expand the role Focus on a shared quality mindset of radiotherapy. The goal is to deliver a lethal dose to the tumor We constantly challenge ourselves to improve the qualwhile not damaging surrounding tissue. Increased precision ity in our solutions, service, and processes. By being means that sensitive surrounding tissue can be avoided to a close to our customers and acting proactively we stand greater extent, which opens new treatment opportunities. out on quality. The latest evidence of our commitment to precision is the introduction of our MR-Linac. MRI provides a step change in Further drive a competitive cost base image quality of tumors in soft tissues, and with online planWe must consistently seek to reduce the cost of our ning adaption using beam-on imaging, precision is signifisolutions to ensure competitiveness – both on price and cantly increased. This allows the treatment of cancer indicaon total cost of ownership. We expect cost-­awareness tions not normally treated with radiotherapy, such as renal from everyone in our organization. cancer, and treatment modalities such as hypofractionation, even in sites with organ motion. Simplify our offering and way of working Our products must be as simple, intuitive, and easy to Drive digital solutions for value-based care use as possible. By harmonizing and simplifying our Digitalization is improving health care. Driving the significant product offering, we free up resources and can direct and rapid change is the promise of increased control and betour creativity where it matters. ter coordination between care staff, resulting in fewer medical errors, better clinical outcomes and improved operational ELEKTA ANNUAL REPORT 2019/20 11 BUSINESS OVERVIEW / STRATEGIC FRAMEWORK Creating responsible value Research and development Sourcing and manufacturing Improving cancer care Securing best possible by innovation treatment options Elekta’s market-leading position is based on innovative as We have robust assembly lines and use only high-quality well as cost-and energy-efficient products developed in materials to secure stable solutions that provide the close collaboration with leading researchers and clinics. ­necessary precision and accuracy. 80 percent of the sourced Our R&D hubs are spread out globally and are focused on: products and services come from approximately 450 • Informatics solutions in Sunnyvale and St. Louis, USA, ­qualified suppliers around the world. Elekta is producing ­ and Shanghai, China in three main manufacturing units: • Leksell Gamma Knife® (LGK) in Stockholm, Sweden • Crawley, UK (Linacs and MR Linacs) • Brachy in Veenendaal, the Netherlands • Beijing, China (Linacs and MR Linacs) • Linacs and MR-Linacs in Crawley, UK and Beijing, China • Veenedaal, the ­Netherlands (Brachytherapy) 10% of net sales spent on R&D Important sustainability areas For more information on our sustainability areas, see the In-depth sustainability report on page 35 and specific impact on the • A ccess to Radiotherapy – strive for innovation • B  usiness Ethics – embody our ethical business in radiotherapy to make treatments more effective and standards throughout our supply chain enable improved patient outcome; reduce negative • Sustainable Production – reducing environmenside-effects, time to recover, and increase quality of tal footprint and being mindful of natural resources life. Improve access to cost-effective radiotherapy in • People in Focus – ensuring respect for international underserved markets human and labor rights in our supply chain • P eople in Focus – attract and retain qualified employees, as well as partnership with leading research clinics 12 ELEKTA ANNUAL REPORT 2019/20 We develop long-term competitiveness by creating value in all responsibly. We do so by ensuring that we live by the ethical parts of the value chain for increased quality and efficiency. business standards we set for ourselves, by reducing our enviIn carrying out our core business – providing access to radioronmental footprint from our production activities, and by therapy – we need to be mindful of the impact our operations focusing on respecting and supporting everyone working at, can have on our stakeholders, and conduct our business or for, Elekta. Marketing and sales After service market Bringing innovation and Providing excellence clinicians together every day With a strong local presence around the world, we are Through high-quality service and support, we enable our close to our customers. We have sales and an installed customers to maximize the value of their investments and base in over 120 countries. In many markets we act with provide the best possible care. our own experts, in others through selected partners. A global team of 650 field service engineers and 165 Around 15% of net sales are conducted through distributors. support specialists and our predictive Elekta IntelliMax® During the year 2019/20, we had an order intake of system, follow the life-cycle of our solutions. ~40% around SEK 18 bn. 24 Elekta Unity systems were ordered and we started the installation of 9 Elekta Unity systems globally in the year. of net sales are service revenues Logistics platform Elekta uses a group-wide logistics platform to reduce the transport of our solutions and streamline the d ­ elivery of spare parts. Business travel is reduced by using digital communication tools. value chain on page 57. • B usiness Ethics – need for robust procedures, • A  ccess to Radiotherapy – crucial that the risk assessment, training and compliance programs solutions provide a high level of safety during use, and due to sales in high-risk countries, and having partners that we can secure this from our side through a global with the same high standard of ethical conduct service network • P  eople in Focus – having a diverse workforce and a respectful work environment, with focus on health and safety at the workplace ELEKTA ANNUAL REPORT 2019/20 13 BUSINESS OVERVIEW / FINANCIAL TARGETS AND OUTCOME Modest revenue growth in 2019/20 Elekta’s strategy provides the framework for our pursuit of profitable and sustainable growth and are quantified in the financial outlook. However, this year the performance was strongly affected by Covid-19. For sustainability targets see the In-depth sustainability report on page 35. OUTLOOK 19/20 OUTCOME COMMENT NET SALES From year start: 8–10% SEK M Elekta is a growth company a ­ nd Updated April: ~ 1% 3% expected at the beginning of 16,000 the year to have a net sales growth for 2019/20 of 8–10 percent, based on constant exchange rates. Due to the 12,000 impact from Covid-19 Elekta withdrew the previous guidance in April and expected a net 8,000 sales growth of 1 percent, based on constant exchange rates. As more systems then 4,000 expected could be installed in the last week of April net sales increased by ­­3 percent based on constant exchange rates. 0 17/18 18/19 19/20 Lorum ipsuim EBITA From year start: ~19% % At the beginning of the year Updated April: 16–17% Elekta expected an EBITA MARGIN 24 ­margin of around 19 percent for 2019/20. Due mainly to large foreign exchange rates changes the outlook was changed in 20 November and again due ­to 17.3 Covid-19 in April. The higher revenue growth 16 than anticipated at the time of the new guidance in April explains that the EBITA margin 12 came in above 17 percent. 8 17/18 18/19 19/20 Lorum ipsuim OUTLOOK GOING FORWARD Due to the uncertainties related to the Covid-19 pandemic Elekta will first give an outlook when it is possible to further quantify the impact of Covid-19 on the radiation therapy market and the effect on Elekta’s business. 14 ELEKTA ANNUAL REPORT 2019/20 BUSINESS OVERVIEW / OFFERING Value creating innovations Elekta offers leading solutions in Precision Radiation Medicine that allow clinicians to treat more patients with increased quality. Through innovations that makes radiotherapy safer and simpler to use, we contribute to easing the global cancer burden. Elekta’s solutions for Oncology Information Systems (OIS) brings together people, workflows, and the information clinics need to deliver quality care and run smooth operations. We constantly develop Solutions and refine our informatics offering, using AI and Elekta offers leading solutions in other techniques to make it easier to capture both radiotherapy treatment and and analyze data, enabling clinics to optimize oncology informatics systems for their workflows and improve clinical outcomes, complete oncological clinics. productivity and financial performance. ~60% of net sales Our broad portfolio of leading treatment ­solutions is optimized for precision, minimizing damage to surrounding healthy tissue. We have a proud history of bringing innovations that later Oncology Informatics Solutions become standard into the market, such as multi­leaf collimator, image-guided radiotherapy and volumetric modulated arc therapy. And with Elekta Unity, a Linac combined with a diagnostics MR-Linac Linac grade MRI, we are driving a new paradigm shift in Solutions Solutions radiotherapy. Our Service business provides a large stream of recurring revenues based on long-term service contracts with our customers. Through Big Data Brachy­ ­ Neuro and AI, we are becoming more proactive, further Solutions Solutions reducing unplanned downtime so more patients can be treated. > 4,500 systems installed globally Service Delivering high quality aftermarket services with a global ­network, generating recurring revenues. ~40% of net sales ELEKTA ANNUAL REPORT 2019/20 15 BUSINESS OVERVIEW / OFFERING My chance to experience more: John’s story John Koch, 67, is a now retired North New Queensland manager from a global industrial company. In 2014, he was diagnosed with prostate cancer. “Receiving the diagnosis was a blow. Cancer. That was the only word I could hear when the doctor explained it to me. Up to that point, my life had been mainly work, playing golf and fishing. I started to receive androgen deprivation therapy and radiotherapy. But I still had problems coming to terms with that word. Cancer. So I became somewhat of a recluse. Stopped playing golf, didn’t go fishing. The treatment appeared to work, but 12 months later we found tumors outside the prostate near the bowel. My oncologist advised me about a revolutionary machine called MR-Linac, an Elekta Unity, that was being installed. And that I could be the first patient, I think in the whole southern hemisphere, to receive treatment. Three months later, the machine was installed, and I received my treatment in just a few sessions and with no side effects. Well, aside from me starting to play golf – I’m still a hopeless player – and going fishing. Now I can enjoy life again!” NORTH NEW QUEENSLAND, AUSTRALIA AUGUST 15, 7:10 AM This is an illustrative photo for not exposing John to extra infection risk in the light of Covid-19. 16 16 ELEKTA ANNUAL REPORT 2019/20 Oncology Informatics Solutions Informatics solutions can improve treatments by AI and real world data MOSAIQ®, our uniquely capable OIS, and the supporting tools offer clinics a dedicated solution for continuous improvement in precision oncology treatment. Cancer is a complex disease and the most common treatEnhancing workflows ments include radiotherapy, surgery and chemotherapy, In February 2020 we acquired the remaining shares of ­individually or combined. The ideal treatment plan must PalabraApps®, which provides SmartClinic and a voice autotherefore be personalized for every patient. To handle the mation tool specifically for MOSAIQ. This tool allows physicomplexity and to make sure there are no discontinuities in cians to dictate notes and have those notes transformed to the handovers between the different health care professionals structured data. Clinicians using the voice automation have involved in the care of a patient, clinics use OIS for managing saved 125 hours on average every year, en­­abling them to the patient’s data and for analyzing their own operations. spend more focused time with patients. SmartClinic is a At Elekta, we offer the best of breed OIS, MOSAIQ, which is workflow management software that enhances the work flow built around a data model specifically designed for oncology. of individual clinics. Using these solutions altogether through At every stage, MOSAIQ will present the clinician with all the MOSAIQ Plaza creates a solution that is more than the sum information needed to make a decision and if the decisions of its parts, allowing clinics to better understand where the are repetitive, they can be automated using SmartClinic or bottlenecks are in their processes. IQ Scripts. MOSAIQ is the only solution available that can do We can capture all data required by the clinic efficiently, this using a single central data model for comprehensive and then present the workflow and answers back to the oncology departments, that offer both medical and radiation ­clinics so they can continually improve their treatments and oncology. processes. The creation of this feedback loop, or continuous Having all information consolidated in one place is not only improvement process, provides the platform for a Real World more secure, but also offers superior opportunities for analytEvidence solution to ensure hospitals and clinics can offer perics and data visualization. To show improvement in important sonalized and precision-based oncology treatment. metrics such as five-year survival rates, clinics need to capture long time-series of data points on patients’ condition and treatment. The longitudinal data model of MOSAIQ is unique in its ability to do this. And with the registry software METRIQ®and MOSAIQ® Oncology Analytics, clinics have the MOSAIQ PLAZA tools to analyze and continuously improve their clinical outA suite of software combining the features clinics comes, productivity, and financial performance. need to ensure the best experience for their patients. Moving towards the cloud The ongoing shift towards Big Data and cloud computing is SmartClinic an opportunity for Elekta to release new MOSAIQ® Plaza solutions as cloud-based subscription services. For hospitals, HIS ­ IBM subscriptions are usually easier to purchase and manage as Integration Watson they are expenditures than the traditional method of purchasing licenses as capital expenditure. Our next-generation cloud infrastructure Elekta Axis is Kaiku Voice Health Introducing ­Automation now available in the US, our strongest market for OIS, and is currently being launched in many global markets including MOSAIQ ® Europe and Asia Pacific. The structure of Elekta Axis will allow Plaza all software solutions within Elekta – which beyond informatCare Medical ­Collaboration ­Oncology ics include radiotherapy treatment management tools such as treatment planning and quality assurance – to be deployed in the same cloud environment, allowing us to harmonize our Oncology Monaco HD offering. ­Analytics ProKnow ELEKTA ANNUAL REPORT 2019/20 17 BUSINESS OVERVIEW / OFFERING MR-Linac Solutions Momentum to ­build a new standard of care The paradigm shift set in motion by the launch of Elekta Unity continues as more systems are being installed and more patients are being treated. New regulatory approvals during the year further increased the system’s clinical utility. At year end there were 21 Elekta Unity systems in clinical use, The most important vehicle for gathering clinical evidence of which three were used to acquire data for Chinese clinical is the MOMENTUM study, which was launched at the start of trials, and as of May 18, 2020, we had received orders for a 2019 by Elekta’s MR-Linac Consortium. MOMENTUM is an total of 80 systems. More than 1,200 patients have been observational study designed to generate data to enable treated in more than 30 anatomical sites, confirming our the safe, fast and evidence-based introduction of magnetic expectation that MR-Linac, Elekta Unity, will be widely appliresonance radiotherapy into clinical practice. Participating cable. An advantage of Elekta Unity is the possibility of realinstitutions can access clinical and technical data from the time adaption to the patient’s anatomy of the day. The online MOMENTUM data repository, allowing researchers to learn plan adaption is increasingly being used, cumulatively in more from every patient treated on the Elekta Unity. than 55 percent of cases, to compensate for changes in The MR-Linac’s superior image quality and imaging possitumor or normal tissue shape. The most common cancers bilities make new treatment workflows possible, such as treated are prostate and oligometastases. increased hypofractionation and plan adaption during treatElekta Unity is important for Elekta, and we expect the ment based on changes to the tumor or surrounding organs technology to eventually become the standard of care in preat risk. MOMENTUM aims to provide clinical evidence to supcision radiation medicine, with an addressable market of port the efficacy and safety of these new treatment workflows. 3,000 to 4,000 systems, which is around 25 percent of the More than 600 patients have so far consented to participate world Linac market. in the study and have their outcomes followed for at least two years. Increased clinical utility with DWI During the fiscal year we received regulatory approval in nine Future development new jurisdictions, meaning that we now have regulatory The availability of uncompromised imaging before, during clearance in more than 35 countries. and after treatment opens new possibilities to monitor the A noteworthy additional regulatory approval came in tumor and organs-at-risk during delivery. Over the coming December 2019 from FDA, when we received a 510(k) pre­market year, we plan to release tools that together will form a comnotification for diffusion-weighted magnetic resonance imagprehensive motion management toolkit. We will introduce a ing (DWI) obtained with Elekta Unity to be interpreted by a new MR sequence type called 3D Vane, that will allow centers trained physician. This expands the clinical utility of Elekta to better visualize areas of the body that can be blurred by Unity to include more precise assessment of the tumor respiratory motion, such as the upper abdomen. We will response during treatment, in effect allowing clinicians to release another type of sequence, called Compressed SENSE, detect changes in the tumor density before they are visible that enable ultra-fast scan times. For example, we expect anatomically. Adapting the plan based not just on changes that centers will use this scan of the thorax to get a complete in size and shape of the tumor but on biological changes image that can be used for planning in one breath hold. occurring at cellular level, may allow dose escalation to the Finally, we will launch automatic gating, which will keep the more insensitive areas, de-escalation to the more sensitive treatment beam on only within a user-defined window of a areas and, in the end, better patient outcomes. patient’s breathing cycle. Together, this comprehensive motion management toolkit The MOMENTUM study will allow clinicians to treat more patients with more precision Clinics’ financials are largely based on reimbursements for and with fewer side effects. These future releases are the the treatments. These reimbursements should correspond result of years of research and development with the MR-Linac to the benefits of the treatments. In the ongoing rollout it is Consortium, a critical partnership that ensures the clinical therefore important to compile clinical evidence for getting relevance of all our efforts. reimbursements in line with the additional benefits brought by Elekta Unity. 18 ELEKTA ANNUAL REPORT 2019/20 MR-Linac advantages Superior image-quality On-board functional i­maging MR images have much better soft-tissue contrast than CT While images for dose-response studies can be acquired based image guidance technology. The MR-Linac consortium out of room, logistics usually makes this a daunting task for believes that all top nine cancers by global incidence would most radiotherapy departments. With an on-board diagnosbenefit from Elekta Unity’s improved visualization: lung, tics grade MRI scanner, these can be acquired in little or no breast, prostate, colon, stomach, liver, rectum, oesophagus additional time as an integral part of the patient’s treatand cervix1). ment session. Beam-on images No imaging dose MR-Linacs allow cross-sectional beam-on images, which is MRI guidance avoids additional exposure to radiation from not possible on standard Linacs. This monitoring of tumor the imaging process and is therefore suitable for radiaand organ-at-risk motion during delivery enables gating and tion-sensitive patients and those needing continued monitumor tracking. toring with repeated scans. How it works: Elekta Unity combines a diagnostic grade wide-bore 1.5 Tesla MRI scanner with a state-of-the-art Linac, mounted on a slip ring gantry allowing 360 degrees rotation. MR images generated before, during and after treatment are used for plan adaption, and sparing healthy tissue while delivering a lethal dose to the target. 1) https://gco.iarc.fr/today/data/factsheets/populations/900-world-fact-sheets.pdf ELEKTA ANNUAL REPORT 2019/20 19 BUSINESS OVERVIEW / OFFERING Linac Solutions Innovations that enable value-based care Our portfolio of Linac Solutions is continuously being developed further to enhance treatment quality and clinic productivity. Linacs are the foundation of radiation oncology departments Therefore, in addition to prior imaging, new measures are treating a wide range of tumors. Elekta is a market leader being introduced to better understand the anatomy during delivering close to 400 new installations each year. Together treatment. One such measure is Clarity®, which is an option with increasingly capable software, our Linacs are helping with Versa HD. Clarity uses ultrasound to monitor movements ­clinicians to achieve better outcomes for more patients. of the prostate and stops the beam when target or critical structures are out of range. Another example is Symmetry™, Improving quality through cloud platform an advanced 4D imaging technique. It is used for underIn August 2019, we acquired ProKnow®, a cloud-based platstanding how respiratory motion affects the tumor path to form for measuring and improving quality in radiotherapy. deliver the dose more precisely. ProKnow introduces quality metrics to every treatment Beam accuracy might be another constraint in radiotherapy. aspect, which can then be compared with a bigger cohort of Using Versa HD™ with the treatment planning software patients. This allows clinics to better evaluate and constantly Monaco® HD allows unparalleled precision and the delivery improve their treatment practices, which is a key aspect of of stereotactic radiosurgery and stereotactic body radiation value-based health care. therapy in regular 15-minute treatment slots. Monaco uses ProKnow also makes it easier for clinicians to collaborate on a deep understanding of the machine’s capabilities to deliver difficult cases and to distribute tasks. Especially in the panoptimized treatment plans that can be delivered in less time demic situation, the cloud-based functionality will enable without sacrificing plan quality. ­clinicians to work around the restrictions and lockdowns, for example by contouring tumors from home, so that there are High Productivity Linac fewer delays in the care of cancer patients. We launch our new Linac, the High-Productivity Linac, in the fall of 2020. The value proposition is built around delivering Increasing certainty and precision high productivity with high quality, the ‘perfect balance’. As the value-based health care trend grows, radiation oncology Among the improvements are a complete re-engineering of departments are increasingly looking towards hypofractionation the patient setup process, typically the most time-consuming – delivering the planned dose in fewer sessions. A consequence step of a treatment session. We have thought carefully about is that there is less room to compensate for day-to-day uncerall the details and devised innovative solutions that when tainties about where the tumor and organs-at-risk are during combined will make a big difference. The new Linac will be delivery of the dose. aimed at both mature and emerging markets. How it works: The linear accelerator produces a beam of radiation that is actively shaped and aimed at the patient’s tumor with high precision and in accordance with a calculated, individually adapted treatment plan. Using alternating current voltage, the electrons accelerate to high speeds and are aimed at the target to deliver a significant dose of radiation to the tumor, with minimal impact to the s­ urrounding healthy tissue. The linear accelerator also includes an integrated imaging system for visualization and positioning of the tumor target. 20 ELEKTA ANNUAL REPORT 2019/20 MONTRÉAL, CANADA MAY 2, 06:00 AM This is an illustrative photo for not exposing Joscelyne to extra infection risk in the light of Covid-19. My chance to experience more: Joscelyne’s story Joscelyne Renaud, 75, is a now retired secretary and former professional dancer. In 2019, she was diagnosed with breast cancer. “I always been very positive and active in my life. I joined Les Grands Ballets Canadiens in Montreal in 1963, when I was 18 years old, and danced professionally until I couldn’t anymore. Then I recycled myself as a secretary at 50. I can’t dance now at my age, so I do tai-chi instead. Last year, in February, I noticed a lump in my breast. I knew immediately that it was cancer, but I wasn’t very worried. Even though my mother had a similar tumor, we have no history of breast cancer in our family. The doctors recommended surgery and brachytherapy, and I trusted them. It was very quick, just nine treatments in five days. It was amazing not having to go through a long treatment. There was very little pain and no side effects. And it was in June, so the weather was nice when I took the bus to the hospital. The follow-ups hasn’t revealed any new tumors, so I’m back to normal. I teach a morning ­tai-chi class twice a week, and a few afternoons every week, I go to the elderly care home to play bingo with the residents. Because of Covid-19, I can’t do that right now, but I still do my ­tai-chi training outside and go for fast walks. I feel good. La vie est belle.” ELEKTA ANNUAL REPORT 2019/20 21 BUSINESS OVERVIEW / OFFERING Brachy Solutions Continued leadership in inserted ­radiotherapy With more than 60 percent of the world market, Elekta is the clear market leader in high dose rate brachytherapy. Through education and innovation, we continue to drive the field forward. High dose rate brachytherapy is a very precise form of radiosicians to precisely shape the dose and leading to true pertherapy where a small radiation source is temporarily inserted sonalized precision radiation medicine. into the patient, near or inside the tumor. It is standard of Today, we estimate that two out of three brachytherapy care for cervical cancer and has been proven to be clinically patients worldwide receive treatment with Elekta’s solutions. effec­tive and economical to treat a range of different cancers We have the most comprehensive offering in the industry such as prostate, breast, skin and rectal. Both as a single and are determined to keep leading the market. treatment modality or in combination with external beam radiation, it is an indispensable part of radiotherapy. Driving the market development As the leading company in this field, we are driving market development in two ways: education and innovation. The Brachy Academy is the world’s largest educational resource for brachytherapy, and it facilitates peer-to-peer training for clinicians. Brachytherapy uses a more clinically oriented workflow than external beam radiotherapy since it is in most cases a minimally invasive procedure. This kind of procedure comes with a learning curve for hospitals and ­doctors new to brachytherapy. The Brachy Academy helps clinics climb up the learning curve faster, shortening the time it takes for reimbursements to fully cover the clinic’s cost, while also spreading the use of brachytherapy. We focus our innovation efforts at making brachytherapy faster and easier to use. This helps the therapy to become available to all patients who can benefit from it, many of whom are in emerging markets. In April, we launched our new applicator for cervical cancer, Geneva, which is designed to treat earlier stage cancer than our best-seller to date, the Venezia™, and is the first universal gynecological applicator that can be adaptable to most female pelvic anatomies. All new Elekta applicators have a modular design, enabling phyHow it works: A radioactive source, the size of a grain of rice, is temporarily one to four fractions during one stay at the hospital, enabling placed inside or close to the tumor via an applicator at differthe patient to go home the same day or the next. ent predetermined positions for different times, delivering a carefully planned high dose very precisely. Treatment planning uses specially developed software and is done after the applicator has been inserted and an image has been acquired via CT or MRI. The radioactive source is stored and delivered through an afterloader that remotely steers the source in the patient’s body. The entire treatment is typically delivered in 22 ELEKTA ANNUAL REPORT 2019/20 Neuro Solutions Lightning fast zero margin treatment Elekta is the undisputed leader in stereotactic radiosurgery ever since the company pioneered the field 50 years ago. With the new innovation, Lightning, the value proposition of the Leksell Gamma Knife® is further strengthened. Stereotactic radiosurgery is a safe and cost-efficient treatment Continuous development and option for serious neurological conditions, such as trigeminal revolutionary software update neuralgia and other benign brain disorders, as well as brain At the heart of Elekta’s neuro portfolio is the Leksell Gamma metastases. It is minimally invasive and usually has no side Knife system, which is now in its sixth generation with the effects and no convalescence or rehabilitation requirements Icon™. The very sharp dose fall-off allows planning and treatfor the patient, who can go home the same day. ment with zero margins, and with the optimized workflow no additional quality assurance is needed, saving time. The Icon comes with two immobilization options, a frame and a mask. The installed base of all generations of Leksell Gamma Knife is around 350 systems, and the number is growing. ­Clinics which use the system find an increase in throughput of neuro patients, because of the shorter overall treatment time, while valuable time is freed up on the regular Linacs. In May 2020 Elekta further strengthened the Leksell Gamma Knife by a revolutionary new software launch, Leksell Gamma Knife® Lightning. This state-of-the art solution reduces beam-on-time by up to 50 percent as well as reduces planning time by up to 80 percent. The extremely shortning in both planning and treatment time will enable clinics to treat even more patients with their Leksell Gamma Knife. Well in line with the increasing need for stereotactic radiosurgery. Elekta has also developed GammaPlan® Remote, a software making it possible to plan complex medical treatments remotely. Even if these treatments require assessment of images and abundant data as well input from multiple cross-disciplinary team members the solution ensures that the Leksell GammaPlan workstation can be accessed by authorized users and referring physicians. This remote cooperation is especially valuabel in the present pandemic situation. How it works: Stereotactic radiosurgery is specifically developed to inhibit neurological conditions. With Elekta’s Leksell Gamma Knife Icon, up to 192 low-intensity radiation beams converge with high accuracy on the target, delivering a powerful radiation dose. Target mass and shape determines the number of beams used. Advanced imaging and a system for motion control enables real-time adaptive treatment. ELEKTA ANNUAL REPORT 2019/20 23 BUSINESS OVERVIEW / OFFERING CORNWALL, UK JUNE 10, 10:30 AM This is an illustrative photo for not exposing Kris to extra infection risk in the light of Covid-19. My chance to experience more: Kris’ story Kristin Hallenga, 34, is the founder of UK cancer charity CoppaFeel!. In 2009, at age 23, she was diagnosed with incurable secondary breast cancer. She was the subject of 2015 BBC ­documentary Kris: Dying to Live. “Because I was so young, the doctor first thought that the lump in my breast was hormonal. So when I got my diagnosis, the cancer in my breast had already spread. And there was no cure. I’ve always believed that you should get up every day and do what you are passionate about. From that moment, I’ve been passionate about cancer. So that same year, my twin-sister and I started the charity CoppaFeel! to spread awareness and to encourage young people to regularly check their breasts and pecs. Nine years later, I developed multiple brain metastases, mets for short, and was offered wholebrain radiotherapy. It’s a treatment that can have severe side effects, including cognitive decline and hair-loss. I didn’t want to lose my hair and felt that there was so much still left to do. So, I started searching for alternatives and found the Leksell Gamma Knife® which can target the mets individually with minimal side-effects. In total, I received three treatments in one year for 54 mets. It’s now been 11 years since my diagnosis. My story proves that there is hope for people like me to live a long time and to sustain a good life. I’m proud of the work I’ve managed to do with the charity and grateful for all the big moments I have had the chance to experience with my loved ones. Cancer allowed me to understand the meaning of happiness and what life can really offer. Living with cancer is hard and terrifying, but it has given me more than I could have ever imagined.” 24 ELEKTA ANNUAL REPORT 2019/20 Service Proactive support with AI reduces clinical downtime Data based and artificial intelligence (AI) enabled proactive support and predictive maintenance as the evolutionary step in the service and support offering. Elekta Care™ is the brand name of our portfolio of award-­ Predictive maintenance avoiding downtime winning services that support customers from installation The key to our remote service and maintenance offering is throughout the lifetime of their Elekta solution. The services Elekta IntelliMax®, our industry-leading AI based remote range from start-up to ongoing maintenance, training, ­support service with more than 18,000 connected Elekta ­technology refresh options during the lifetime of the prodproducts, including 80 percent of our installed base of Linacs. ucts, and the opportunity to take part in knowledge sharing Elekta IntelliMax continuously monitors the incoming data through our global network of Elekta experts. and uses AI-based algorithms to diagnose patterns that We work closely with our customers and manage our rela­predict the failure of components before they impact the tionships to provide the confidence of system uptime, ensure clinical availability of the system. excellence in clinical staff capabilities, and maximize the Elekta IntelliMax is therefore key in keeping patient treat­lifetime value of their investment. Our service organization ments on schedule, and there are considerable time savings consists of more than 650 field engineers who carry out site through remote resolution of issues and increased first-time visits, for example to perform maintenance and installation fix rates. On average eight hours of clinical downtime is services, or to provide training in how to use the system. They avoided per detected system issue, and more than 60 percent are backed by 165 support specialists who provide remote of resolved product issues are supported remotely. To date, assistance at our global network of support centers in multiple Elekta IntelliMax has avoided over 75,000 hours of clinical time zones and in local languages. downtime. The algorithms are Elekta’s service innovation, for We are striving towards expanding our remote service which we have filed patent applications. capabilities. In addition to remote system maintenance and With the data we collect from Elekta IntelliMax, we can see support, this includes an increase in our online education and how our products are being utilized in each region. The resulttraining curriculum. And through our Elekta Care Community ing insights are being used to optimize our service operations, portal, customers can access personalized content and from onsite support through to remote services and spare shared knowledge through a global peer-to-peer network. parts logistics. In addition, the data feeds to product manUsers can also manage their account and browse the courses agement and development to drive product improvements offered through Elekta Care™ Learning, many of which are and innovations. being offered as webinars. Elekta IntelliMax was awarded the Technology Services Industry Association (TSIA) Star Award 2019 in the category of field service, recognizing commitment to outstanding innovation, leadership and excellence. Elekta service contracts Elekta offers three tiers of service agreements to suit the different needs and preferences of customers. PLATINUM – Comprehensive coverage to maximize uptime, optimize staff clinical abilities and provide full control over lifecycle costs. GOLD – Coverage to maximize operational excellence, safeguard clinical availability and minimize unexpected lifecycle costs. SILVER – Basic level of coverage to ensure reliability and efficiency of the customer’s clinical operation. ELEKTA ANNUAL REPORT 2019/20 25 BUSINESS OVERVIEW / GEOGRAPHICAL OVERVIEW Geographical overview The global radiation therapy market is estimated to around 8 billion USD with a historic growth rate of 6–8 percent annually1). Elekta has a strong market position globally, being #1 or #2 in each geographic markets with a overall market share of 35 percent2). North and Europe, Asia South Middle East Pacific America and Africa ELEKTA´S MARKET ELEKTA´S MARKET ELEKTA´S MARKET SHARE2) SHARE2) SHARE2) 21% 43% 40% 1) D  ata bridge market research. Markets and markets. Competititve resporting. Elekta businesss intelligence. 2) Based on order intake of Linacs, MR-Linacs and Neuro systems in the year. 26 ELEKTA ANNUAL REPORT 2019/20 North and South America Changes in the world’s largest market Hospital consolidation and a new proposed Characteristics ­reimbursement model are changes sweeping the US, the world’s largest radiotherapy market. North America • The US has the largest installed base of Linacs, Market both in absolute numbers and per capita North America is characterized by a high penetration • Health care providers are predominately p ­ rivate of treatment solutions, services and aftermarket • The market is driven by replacement investbusiness. Ongoing consolidation of private healthments: renewing installed systems with new care p ­ roviders and hospitals means the c­ ompetitive machines and enhanced functionality landscape continues to be tough, with certain ­customers adopting longer buying cycles for new • Around 60 percent of cancer patients are treatment solutions. In the US the reimbursement treated with radiotherapy model is expected to change from a fee for service• The world’s highest healthcare cost per ­person model to payment of treatment per cancer type. • Requirements for greater efficiency create Due to huge feedback from stakeholders and a demand for more integrated and comprehenCovid-19 it is unclear when this alternative paysive solutions ment model will be launched. Covid-19 has led to major decreases in elective treatments, resulting South America in reduced revenues for private clinics, which could • Underserved market and obsolete installed impact the clinics’ capital budgets going forward. base, growing need for efficient and high-­ The South American market still lacks significant quality cancer care radiotherapy capacity, which together with an aging population, contributes to a positive long• Low reimbursement rates prevent treatments term market outlook. Increased activity among to unserved demand private-sector customers in key markets continues • Rapidly aging population to drive demand in the region. Depreciation in • A combination of private and public care major currencies and capital outflow in the wake ­providers, limited access mostly in the public of the pandemic could impact short-term growth. system • Fast consolidation as radiotherapy clinics are For the performance during the year see page 83. being acquired by large groups Solutions, 44% Region’s contribution Service, 56% to total net sales, 31% ELEKTA ANNUAL REPORT 2019/20 27 BUSINESS OVERVIEW / GEOGRAPHICAL OVERVIEW Europe, Middle East and Africa Leading position in dynamic market The region’s demand depends on whether the market are often funded by national programs to expand is mature or emerging. In the lowand middle-income and modernize care, which can cause demand countries there is substantial need to expand cancer to fluctuate over time. The Middle East is undercare, while in high-income countries demand for served in terms radiotherapy capacity, as is Africa. service and support increases. ­Cervical cancer is prevalent in Africa, which makes it an important market for brachytherapy. Market Future growth in the public sector in Europe is expected to be less affected by Covid-19 than the The markets in Western Europe are growing, due private clinics. In emerging markets the need for both to replacement needs and investment in new radiotherapy increases as the pandemic puts capacity. Demand is driven by increasing cancer restains on medical tourism. incidence. In Eastern Europe there are fewer resources devoted to cancer care and investments For performance during the year see page 84. Characteristics Western Europe • Interest and demand for new technology, particularly in improving clinical efficacy • Mainly public markets, with a steadily g ­ rowing ­private ­sector • Need for replacement investments and ­moderni­zation of the installed base • Increasing demand for service and support Eastern Europe • Fewer resources for cancer care, however, many countries have national programs for the expansion and modernization of radiotherapy • Russia has published a national cancer plan to increase the number of Linacs by 137 until 2024 Middle East and Africa • Turkey is an emerging and growing market, mainly driven by private investments in capacity and capability, which also supports medical tourism ­­from the Arab World • The Middle East needs increased capacity. Both ­private and state financed hospitals drive demand • In Africa, only a small proportion of the population has access to radiotherapy and advanced cancer care. ­Substantial long-term potential • Increasing national cancer plans in West Africa, Solutions, 64% Region’s contribution Egypt and Saudi Arabia Service, 36% to total net sales, 38% • The public sector in the Middle East and Africa accounts for around 50 percent of the market 28 ELEKTA ANNUAL REPORT 2019/20 Asia Pacific Huge unmet cancer care needs The large populations in the region’s rapidly Characteristics ­growing economies are still underserved in terms of access to radiotherapy. Asia Pacific • The region is home to around 60 percent of Market the global population, but less than around China accounts for a large share of the regional 30 percent of the world’s Linacs. Growing market and therefore determines the pace of ­economies, increasing life expectancy and development for the whole region. Despite some more effective diagnostics are driving the continuous short-term Covid-19 effect the Chinese ­long-term demand for specialized healthcare market is expected to be characterized by growth • China is Elekta’s second largest market after with incentives for increased investments and tarthe US and Elekta is the market leader. Growth gets set by the government to expand radiation comes from both public and private sectors and treatment capacity to clinics outside of the large the focus is primarily on capacity expansion, even cities. The need for cancer care will remain high in if replacement investments increase the region long-term due to increasing average life • Japan is a mature market where the focus is expectancy. mostly on replacement investments and is Outside China, radiotherapy capacity is steadily also the country with the highest penetration expanding in developing countries to meet unserved of Leksell Gamma Knife®. Although the market demand. Increased digitalization of medical procehas been slow for a few years, there is longdures and records is also underpinning future term potential as only 25–30 percent of cancer growth in these markets. patients receive radiotherapy The region’s mature markets are primarily driven by replacement demand. • Australia, Hong Kong, Singapore, South Korea, and Taiwan have well-established health care systems with a high cancer care capacity and For performance during the ­year see page 84. are quick to adopt new technology • In India, radiotherapy is mainly offered in the private sector. It is a growing market which still lacks significant capacity, although at present strongly impacted by the pandemic. Public­sector investments are expected to increase long term Solutions, 72% Region’s contribution Service, 28% to total net sales, 31% ELEKTA ANNUAL REPORT 2019/20 29 BUSINESS OVERVIEW / RISK MANAGEMENT Resilience through risk management Elekta operates in a highly competitive and regulated industry and a strong local presence leave us open to risk defined as threats, uncertainties or lost opportunities relating to current Elekta’s two-dimensional or future operations or activities. Sound practices for risk manERM process: agement are an essential element of our culture, corporate governance, strategy development and operational and finan• ”Top down” – designed to distill insights and provide clarity on cial management. We strive to maintain a culture of individual the 10 most important risk areas, supporting risk-informed decisions at the executive level and enables proper risk overaccountability, where everyone factors in risk in daily decision-­ sight by the Board of Directors. making so that the right level of the right risk is being taken. • “Bottom-up” – ensuring a consistent and comprehensive and groupwide risk identification and prioritization of important Clear accountabilities at all levels risks. Risks are evaluated on the basis of impact and probabilThe first level of control consists of our employees who perity and the level of risk preparedness. form the day-to-day activities within the boundaries set by the Executive Management and ultimately the Board of Directors. These boundaries ensure that the actions of a single Top-down Provides clarity on key risks at group level individual will not result in disproportionate risk or missed and enables proper risk oversight by the opportunities for the entire company resulting in not achieving Board of Directors. Elekta’s strategic goals. Elekta’s employees and their managers are owner of all risks related to their business operations Bottom-up and are expected to manage these by maintaining internal Methodology ensures consistent and comprehensive risk identification and prioritizacontrols and executing risk and control procedures. Every tion across the company. Risk are evaluated employee is expected to comply with internal policies on the basis of impact and probability and level of preparedness. and procedures and applicable laws and regulations. Elekta’s support functions such as Finance, IT, Human Resources, Compliance, Legal and Regulatory Affairs & Quality form a second control level and carry out various risk management and compliance activities to support and monitor the first level of control. Enhanced crisis management and response Elekta’s independent internal audit function constitutes a Our crisis management process was further developed during third and final level of control reporting to the Audit Committee the year to ensure efficiency in Elekta’s ability to ­successfully on the effectiveness of the risk management processes and respond to disruptive events at group level and continue busiinternal control system. ness operations. Risk management governance Insurance as a risk management tool The Board of Directors is ultimately responsible for the governWhere identified risks cannot be avoided, mitigated or ance of risk management and control systems. The President ­ accepted, risks are being transferred through insurance where & CEO, assisted by Executive Management, is responsible for possible. Elekta’s insurable risks are covered through global ensuring there is a common and efficient risk management insurance programs tailored to transfer risks associated with process in place. Support functions provide guidance on property and business interruption, transportations, project ­governance, risk management and internal control. executions, business travel, cyber and liability risks. Uniting risk management with strategic planning Elekta has during the year established an enhanced Enterprise Risk Management (ERM) framework aligned with the strategic planning process. A group-wide overview of Elekta’s risks has been created, using a common risk identification and rating methodology, providing a basis for decision-making and prioritization as well as ensuring appropriate levels of control. 30 ELEKTA ANNUAL REPORT 2019/20 Elekta’s risk universe Elekta has classified risks in four broad categories to facilitate the discussion around risk appetite and risk response. Operational risks Strategy risks Operational risks are those directly attributable to business Strategy risks are risks that Elekta voluntarily assumes in order operations that Elekta largely can manage and prevent. They to generate superior returns from the strategy. have a negative impact on our financial performance and ­reputation. Risk factors Our industry is characterized by relatively swift technological Risk factors alterations with advances in industrial knowhow and we rely We manufacture and sell medical equipment that is subject on a close collaboration with clinicians to develop new and to many laws and regulations and commercialization is improved treatment methods according to their needs. dependent on certification and approvals at local level. Elekta We use increased precision to expand the role of radiotherapy, must fulfill rigorous demands in accordance with several rules e.g. with innovations such as our MR-Linac driving paradigm and product safety standards, e.g. EU Directive 93/42/EEG on shifts in precision radiation medicine and digital patient-centric medical products, FDA’s demands on quality systems, as well solutions for value-based care. as a number of domestic directives and rules. Strategic alliances and acquisitions are key to strengthen Our portfolio is characterized by large investments in our portfolio and execute on our strategic priorities and we research and development leading to patent and other intelneed to successfully implement the right company operating lectual property rights, which need to be safeguarded from model that supports our strategy. third party infringement or improper use. We operate in an industry in which there is an increased Risk approach demand for using and analyzing personal data or treatment Our approach to managing these risks is to embed fact-based data in order to further develop our product portfolio. This risk information as a natural part of executive decision-making, needs to be done in accordance with privacy laws worldwide, balancing risk versus reward. Read more about Elekta’s straand appropriate measures to protect the data against damage, tegic priorities on page 10. manipulation and undue interference need to be considered. Our business operations depend on many advanced IT-systems and solutions that need to be protected against damage and undue interference whilst also adhering to various data priExternal risks vacy and security laws and regulations worldwide. We depend on successful relationships with business parties across the External risks arise from events outside the company and are entire value chain, especially suppliers of critical components. beyond our influence or control. In many markets we rely on an external network of distributors and agents. There is a worldwide trend to strengthen Risk factors anti-corruption laws and healthcare equipment manufacturers A large geographical presence with multiple manufacturing are particularly targeted in enforcement efforts. Our ability to sites and a large installed base exposes us to potential politiattract and retain qualified personnel and management is of cal and economic risk on a global scale and in individual great importance and has a significant impact on the future countries or regions. Pandemic outbreaks may cause a limited success of Elekta. Increasingly, companies are being judged access to hospitals and delay starts of installations because by their performance on a variety of environmental, social of lock down of countries. Elekta’s ability to sell is dependent and governance matters and our ability to meet external on availability of financing for private customers and healthexpectations on these matters may impact our business and care spending funds by governments. reputation of long-term sustainability performance. Elekta’s ability to commercialize its solutions is dependent on the reimbursement level that hospitals and clinics can Risk approach obtain. Elekta’s operation is guided by stringent demands and The focus is on avoiding or mitigating these risks in a coststandards for medical equipment by regulatory authorities efficient way. This is done through active risk prevention and rule changes might bring about increased costs or hinder through strong corporate governance controls and business sales of Elekta’s products. processes to guide the organization’s behavior and decisions towards desired norms. ELEKTA ANNUAL REPORT 2019/20 31 BUSINESS OVERVIEW / RISK MANAGEMENT Risk approach Risk factors The focus is to limit the consequences of these risks on our With a large geographical presence and many legal entities business. Risk management strategies involve continuously worldwide, the company faces currency risks in the form of identify and monitor external risks and to prepare and train transaction and translation exposure. Further, the company the organization to reduce the impact of occurring risk events holds loans in fixed and floating interest rate which could through stress testing, disaster/continuity/recovery plans. impact the financial result negatively. Risk approach Financial risk management is conducted by the Group’s finance Financial risks department, which identifies, evaluates and hedges financial risks. Work is pursued in line with the policies established by the Financial risks mainly refer to Elekta’s ability to manage its board for overarching risk management and for specific areas financial debt and financial leverage, such as financing risks such as currency risk, interest-rate risk, credit risk. Read more and liquidity risks as well as market risks. about Elekta’s financial risk management in Note 2 and in the internal control over financial reporting on page 73. Risks with major impact on group level (bottom up) Operational risks Strategy risks Legal & Regulatory • Technology and innovation failures • Intellectual Property Rights protection • Not fulfilling transactional, strategic alliances and company reorganizational goals • Substandard agreements and breach of contractual terms • Deviation from quality assurance systems and regulatory processes IT • Cyber and security threats and IT systems disruptions External risks Compliance & Business ethics • Natural disasters and pandemic risk management • Compliance with laws such as allegations of corruption, • Less availability of financing improper payments and bid rigging • Political risks including trade restrictions and protectionism • Export control • Unfavorable alteration in reimbursement levels • Data protection • Changes in Regulatory framework or processes • Employee fraud Employees & Human rights • Talent attraction and employee retention • Adverse human rights impact in our supply chain, material traceability and conflict minerals Supply chain Financial risks • Loss of key suppliers and access to third-party items • Read more about Elektas financial risks on page 104 • Quality issues and disruption in our supply chain processes Environment and social • Meet expectations on sustainable development for environment and social governance, e.g. improving access to radiotherapy in lowand middle-income countries Sustainability related risks embedded into Access to Radiotherapy Business Ethics our risk universe Our ERM methodology allows for all material sustainability risks to be part of our risk Sustainable People universe. As part of our strategic planning process, all management teams are asked to Production in Focus ensure that material sustainability risks associated with their operations are appropriately identified, evaluated and managed. For our material sustainability risks see the In-depth sustainability report on page 35. 32 ELEKTA ANNUAL REPORT 2019/20 Elekta key risks (top down) As part of the ERM process, risks are being evaluated with the insight of the Executive Management and the result is a list of the most important risks areas to focus on during the current strategy period. Risk areas Risk description Consequences Mitigation Customer satisfaction Ability to timely and efficiently Customer dissatisfaction, loss of Continuous development of products & quality excellence identify and respond to customer quality advantage, generating costs in close collaboration with customers (Operational risk) needs, demonstrate the value propoof non-quality and loss of market and continuous improvements in effisition of new products and services share. cient quality management processes. and fully comply with internal quality assurance systems and processes. Cyber & security threats Cyberattack at the Elekta internal Damage to the company network Consistent risk analyses and monitoring (Operational risk) network or at external services and/or leakage of confidential inforof threats. Employee training, updated providers. mation resulting in business intersoftware and internal control. ruption, loss of business critical data and breach of privacy regulations. Talent attraction & Ability to attract, recruit and retain Lost technological advantage, Retention and succession planning. employee retention highly skilled employees. knowledge transfer disruption and Leadership and people development (Operational risk) inability to secure long term talent programs and initiatives. Demonstrate growth. sustainable business practices to increase human capital attractiveness. Compliance & business Allegations of corruption and bid Breach of bribery and specific indusImplementation of effective compliethics rigging and failure to prevent try laws. Loss of reputation, brand ance programs and training with focus (Operational risk) improper payments by third parties value and shareholder value in addion high-risk areas. on Elekta’s behalf. tion to fines, blacklisting and management distraction and prosecution. Technology & innovation Ability to anticipate and adopt to Loss of competitiveness and ability Technology and innovations to be (Strategy risk) customer’s needs and customer’s to reach strategic targets, leading to proven through clinical and financial ability to adopt new technology and lower growth and financial perfordata. Proactively work with customers software. mance. to support clinical evidence for new technology adoption. Business transformation Overcoming change management Slow adoption of new ways of workAlign processes with strategy and & process excellence challenges, new delivery and support ing and deliveries. Results in lost stakeholders. Ensure right employee (Strategy risk) models. competitiveness and failure to meet competences and research. Working strategic targets. together as one Elekta team addressing change management. Macro economic Ability to quickly adapt and react to Pandemic outbreak causing limited Control of costs and close monitoring developments Covid-19 impact on sales, operations access to hospitals and delayed of the macroeconomic development in (External risk) and cash flow. starts of installations. Inability to all markets, adjusting ways of working plan long-term, leading to less agile to keep servicing customers and mainbusiness, higher costs and potentain business sustainability. tially lower financial performance. ELEKTA ANNUAL REPORT 2019/20 33 BUSINESS OVERVIEW / THE SHARE Increased trading volume Elekta B-shares have been listed on the NASDAQ Stockholm THE ELEKTA SHARE since 1994. Total number of registered shares on April 30, 2020 was 383,568,409, whereof treasury shares amounted % Thousands, shares to 1,485,289 series B-shares. Total trading in Elekta shares on 160 100,000 NASDAQ Stockholm during the period May 1, 2019 – April 30, 2020 amounted to 443.3 million shares (347.6), corresponding 120 80,000 to 116 percent (91) of the total number of shares. Market capitalization on April 30, 2020 amounted to SEK 33,313 M 80 60,000 (41,466), an decrease by 20 percent. 40 40,000 DISTRIBUTION OF SHARES APRIL 30, 2020 0 20,000 Percentage of Class of share No. of shares No. of votes Capital Votes −40 0 A-shares 14,980,769 149,807,690 3.9% 28.9% 2015 2016 2017 2018 2019 2020 B-shares 368,587,640 368,587,640 96.1% 71.1% Elekta B OMX Stockholm PI OMX Stockholm Health Care Total 383,568,409 518,395,330 100.0% 100.0% Number of traded shares See Note 26 for more information on Elekta’s share capital. MAJOR SHAREHOLDERS APRIL 30, 2020 Dividend and proposal to repurchase shares Percentage of Owner No. of shares Capital Votes Elekta’s policy is to distribute at least 30 percent of profit for the year in the form of dividend, repurchase of shares or Fourth Swedish National ­Pension Fund 25,184,216 6.6% 4.9% comparable measures. A dividend decision is based on Laurent Leksell and ­companies 23,037,393 6.0% 30.5% Elekta’s financial position, earnings trend, growth potential Swedbank Robur Funds 20,509,377 5.3% 4.0% and investment needs. For 2019/20, the Board of Directors AMF Insurance & Funds 20,314,824 5.3% 3.9% proposes to the Annual General Meeting, in accordance with T. Rowe Price 18,680,138 4.9% 3.6% Elekta’s dividend policy, a dividend of SEK 0.90 (1.80) per Nordea Funds 13,839,766 3.6% 2.7% share. The dividend amounts to approximately SEK 344 M Vanguard 10,710,255 2.8% 2.1% (688) and 32 (57) percent of net profit for the year. Elekta SEB Funds 10,667,365 2.8% 2.1% has a strong financial position, which is why the Board of Baillie Gifford & Co 8,869,287 2.3% 1.7% Directors may call for an Extraordinary General Meeting to Lannebo Funds 8,486,000 2.2% 1.6% propose an additional dividend to bring the total dividend for Other 223,269,788 58.2% 43.1% fiscal year 2019/20 in line with the previous year’s level. Such Total 383,568,409 100.0% 100.0% an additional dividend will be dependent on the general economic outlook and how Covid-19 will affect Elekta and Source: Modular Finance its markets going forward. See page 88 for more information on dividend. The table above lists the 10 largest known shareholders in The board intends to propose to 2020 Annual General Elekta AB as of April 30, 2020. Foreign ownership was approxiMeeting a renewal of the board´s authorization to repurchase mately 47 (46) percent. shares in Elekta AB. The proposal limits the number of shares to be repurchased to a maximum of 10 percent of the number of shares outstanding in Elekta AB. 34 ELEKTA ANNUAL REPORT 2019/20 ”What we do ­matters. How we do it, conducting our business sustainably, matters more than ever.” Caroline Mofors, SVP Chief Compliance & Integrity Officer IN-DEPTH ­SUSTAINABILITY REPORT ELEKTA ANNUAL REPORT 2019/20 35 IN-DEPTH SUSTAINABILITY REPORT / INTRODUCTION An integrated agenda for sustainable ­business Conducting our business sustainably and responsibly is part of our company strategy and integrated in everything we do at Elekta. We let Agenda 2030 of the United Nations guide our approach to sustainability and by putting focus where it matters, we are making positive contributions to the global goals for sustainable development. A program connected to a global agenda We are convinced that an integrated approach is key to The Agenda 2030 and the 17 sustainable development goals truly succeed with corporate sustainability. Each of our four (SDGs), sets out the pathway to build a better future for focus areas has their own programs and strategic plans for everyone. It is vital that each and every player globally takes implementation developed together with, and carried out by, part and collaborates with other stakeholders including busithe business line organizations, the regions and relevant nesses, governments, the civil society and the general public, group functions depending on where it is most appropriate. to make a real difference for a more sustainable future. This way we can ensure effective management and alignment One actor alone cannot achieve all goals. We have carefully with other strategic initiatives and targets. and strategically analyzed our operations from a value chain Our cross-functional Corporate Responsibility Steering perspective, identified our most important sustainability risks Committee streamlines the process of implementing the releand opportunities. This analysis includes stakeholder diavant actions and targets throughout the organization, as well logues and materiality assessments, see page 56. As a result, as measuring results. For governance of corporate responsibility, we have built our program for sustainability around four see page 55. broad focus areas where we deem our efforts to have the­ biggest impact: Living our values The ethical principles in our Code of Conduct are all corner• Access to Radiotherapy stones in building a sustainable company. The Code of • Business Ethics Conduct applies to everyone working for and on behalf of • Sustainable Production Elekta, such as employees, consultants, controlled companies, • People in Focus distributors, and agents. The Code of C ­ onduct is supplemented by specific policies where needed. Each of these focus areas is complementing the 17 SDGs set Our sustainability efforts and policies are guided by leading by the United Nations (UN) in 2015, and in total we assess global standards and principles such as the following: that we are making positive contributions to nine of these • the UN Global Compact and its ten principles goals, as presented on the following page. • the OECD Guidelines for Multinational Enterprises and its associated due diligence guidance for responsible business Top-down and bottom-up conduct Sustainability and corporate responsibility is a top priority at • the UN Guiding Principles on Business and Human Rights Elekta, which is reflected in the fact that it is being overseen • the Universal Declaration of Human Rights at the highest level: the Board of Directors. Social and envi• the International Labour Organization Declaration on ronmental sustainability issues fall within the remit of the Fundamental Principles and Rights at Work Board’s Compensation and Sustainability Committee which • the precautionary principle sets the general direction for our work. Governance, business ethics and integrity-related issues are handled by the Board’s Audit Committee. 36 ELEKTA ANNUAL REPORT 2019/20 Access to Business Radiotherapy Ethics Sustainable People Production in Focus ELEKTA ANNUAL REPORT 2019/20 37 IN-DEPTH SUSTAINABILITY REPORT / ACCESS TO R ­ ADIOTHERAPY Access to R ­ adiotherapy Elekta has a unique opportunity to fight cancer and alleviate the suffering of people affected by cancer in all corners of the world. We do this for example by extending the training and qualification of medical professionals in radiotherapy in especially underserved markets, and by improving information about cancer diseases and their possible treatments. Why is this important? Access to The incidence of cancer is rising globally and there is a pressing Radiotherapy need for radiotherapy services. Everyone deserves high-quality care but it is not always available. Elekta is committed to improving access to radiotherapy for all, not least in currently underserved markets. Cancer poses a significant challenge for societies worldwide, as the incidence is steadily rising, see page 8. The world community has set an ambitious target, as part of Agenda 2030, of reducing mortality from non-communicable diseases, such as cancer, by one third by 2030. Increasing access to radiotherapy will be crucial in reaching this target. Equitable access to medical care is a fundamental human right, and one we are committed to stand up for. How are we working with this? Raising global awareness APPLICABLE SUSTAIN­ABLE Raising awareness across the globe is a key enabler to increase DEVELOPMENT GOALS access to radiotherapy. We are committed to this and are Targets: working with carefully selected international partners to 3.4  R  educe mortality from non-communicable achieve this, such as: diseases and promote mental health 3.C  Increase health financing and support health • Union for International Cancer Control (UICC) – With the workforce in developing countries Treatment for All-program Elekta decided to become a partner 4.4  Increase the number of people with relevant with UICC. Working closely with WHO, International Agency skills for financial success for Research on Cancer, International Atomic Energy Agency 17.16  Enhance the global partnership for s­ ustainable (IAEA) and the United Nations, UICC provides a robust and development far reaching platform for capacity building and radiotherapy 17.17 Encourage effective partnerships advocacy which goes in line with our ambitions. • Estro Cancer Foundation (ECF) – The Marie Curie campaigns implemented by ECF during the last two years have helped the patients and public to understand the role of ­modern radiotherapy in cancer treatment and how far this ELEKTA’S CONTRIBUTION field has developed since the days of Madame Curie. • City Cancer Challenge (C/CAN) – Supporting cities under• Providing access to high-quality and innovative take holistic and sustainable cancer plans. During this year radiotherapy solutions globally. both Cali in Columbia and Asuncion in Paraguay has devel• Offering training and education on radiotherapy to oped such plans, both in their national governments for final healthcare professionals, particularly in lowand approval. middle-income countries. • Collaborating and partnering with clinics, researchElekta has been supporting with funds and/or clinical experts ers, governments, and the civil society to develop new to assure successful progress. products and raise awareness about radiotherapy. • The Board of Directors is investigating the advantages of establishing a foundation in order to further strengthen Elekta’s program for access to radiotherapy. 38 ELEKTA ANNUAL REPORT 2019/20 Increasing education and training Another fundamental element to increase the access to care is to have trained and qualified healthcare professionals. Elekta is committed to increase education and training in Forming coalitions radiotherapy in many ways. For example the Brachy in times of crises ­Academy, with clinical workshops and training visits to ­leading hospital, see page 22. The Brachy Academy is now The Covid-19 pandemic has put a huge strain on the expanding its services in lowand middle-income countries. healthcare sector, and in some places cancer patients By offering regular training sessions to healthcare profesare being denied the treatment they urgently need. sionals, for example at Elekta’s Care Learning Centers, we We have partnered up with Action Radiotherapy, ­­are sharing our knowledge of best-practice cancer care with a UK-based charity, and the US trade organization clinicians worldwide, see page 25. Our main learning centers Advamed, in launching the Global Coalition of Radioare situated in Atlanta, Beijing, Crawley (UK) and Veenendaal therapy. Since its inception, more organizations such (Netherlands). There are a number of additional smaller as ESTRO, ASTRO, C/CAN, UICC, IAEA, and industry regional centers, including in South Africa, Australia, Japan peers, have joined. The coalition is using its collective etc. During the year, 8,647 training sessions were delivered to multidisciplinary voice to advocate for the best pracour customers, with an increased share of online training due tice of radiotherapy for patients, in these challenging to Covid-19. times and in the future. The coalition aims to use the existing work of all the organizations through the disInnovative solutions to improve access semination of data, research, policies and the recomElekta’s investments in innovation and R&D play an important mendation of best practices based on experience role in meeting the growing demand for radiation therapy, worldwide. Together we are pushing for the availability improving patient outcomes and bringing value to society, of adequate cancer care during the crisis. see page 12. Over the last few years we have addressed the specific needs of lowand middle-income countries by developing products that are tailored to these settings. We strive to develop solutions that are smarter and more user-friendly, and that requires less experience of the clinicians that opercomprehensive international legal requirements and productate them, without it imperiling the clinical or operational safety standards. This year, we introduced a new business line excellence of the cancer care. Our new Linac is an example function, Product Quality & Service, specialized to improve of this, see page 20. and monitor product quality. Compliance towards and implementation of the coming Medical Device Regulation, has also Striving for the highest quality and safety been in focus during the year. Quality and safety in all our products and offerings are top Elekta is certified with ISO 9001 (quality management priorities and permeates our entire operations. The goal is to ­systems) and ISO 13485 (design and manufacture of medical meet the highest possible safety standards for all products, devices). Requirements in national regulations are implefor customers and patients, as well as for the company’s own mented as applicable in the specific procedures concerned, installation and service employees. Elekta’s products are e.g. requirements of reporting of incidents and recalls. developed, manufactured, marketed, sold and serviced in Quality management systems are reviewed by both internal accordance with quality-controlled processes. As a medical and third-party auditors and certified by external regulatory device manufacturer, Elekta must comply with strict and bodies and authorities that conduct regular inspections. Clinical training program for modern brachytherapy treatment The IAEA announced in 2018 the Women’s Cancer Partnership Initiative, to increase access to diagnostics and treatment of women’s cancers in lowand middle-income countries. Elekta announced our intention to actively support this important initiative at the IAEA General Assembly in September 2019. Since then we have developed a clinical training program for ­modern brachytherapy treatment of cervical cancer (see next page) with our Brachy Academy partner Tata Memorial Center in Mumbai, India. This program is now in implementation phase at the IAEA and during the World Cancer Day 2020 activities at IAEA in Vienna, Elekta arranged a seminar on women’s’ cancer with the Swedish Embassy and in collaboration with IAEA. The seminar was introduced by the IAEA Director General, the Swedish Ambassador to Austria and the head of the IAEA Program of Action for Cancer Therapy. ELEKTA ANNUAL REPORT 2019/20 39 IN-DEPTH SUSTAINABILITY REPORT / ACCESS TO RADIOTHERAPY The fight against women’s cancer Every year more than half a million women are diagnosed with cervical cancer around the world. 85 percent of the women are living in lowand middle-income countries and half of them die from the disease. While all cancers can be devastating for the patients and their families and loved ones, women’s cancer has additional effects on societies and economies. Unlike other cancers that typically appear later in life, cervical cancer is often diagnosed in the prime years of women’s familyand work lives. Women who die due to cervical cancer often leave young children without a mother and wage-earner, and economies are negatively affected as women are increasingly entrepreneurial and play a key role in stabilizing and building their local economies. In February 2020, the WHO published a draft global strategy towards the elimination of cervical cancer as a public health problem. It calls for aligned and accelerated efforts one of the three targets for 2030 is that 90 percent of all invasive cancer cases should be managed. Brachytherapy is essential in the treatment of cervical cancer and so to achieve WHO’s goals. Further, brachy­ therapy is particularly suitable for lowand middle-income countries as it is comparatively cost-efficient and enables higher radiation doses to be given safely in a shorter period. As a leader in brachytherapy, Elekta is committed to increasing access to the treatment and to trained medical staff globally, especially in currently underserved regions. Our Brachy Academy, see previous and page 22, is now expanding its services in lowand middle-income countries to increase its lasting impact and a structural growth for brachytherapy globally. 40 ELEKTA ANNUAL REPORT 2019/20 IN-DEPTH SUSTAINABILITY REPORT / BUSINESS ETHICS Business Ethics As Elekta strives for our life-saving products to be available to as many as ­possible worldwide, we make it a top priority to combat corruption and other unethical behavior, which can be detrimental to a sustainable development. We implement effective complianceand integrity programs with emphasis on values and behavior. Why is this important? Unethical business practices, such as corrupt or anti-competBusiness itive behavior, hinders sustainable economic and social develEthics opment. Such practices can also have a substantial negative impact on innovation, customers and ultimately the well-­ being of patients. Agenda 2030 and its SDG 16.5 sets out to substantially reduce corruption and bribery by 2030. It is a prerequisite to reach the other global goals for sustainable development. The healthcare sector is particularly vulnerable to corruption due to the close interaction with those in charge of government funds. A high level of interaction with healthcare professionals calls for detailed guidelines on business practices that need to be free from even the suggestion of improper influence. A majority of our sales will go through a public tender process, and it is crucial that we implement and promote lawful and sustainable practices, which is also part of Agenda 2030, APPLICABLE SUSTAIN­ABLE SDG 12.7. DEVELOPMENT GOALS Targets: 12.7  Promote sustainable public procurement practices One of the world’s most 16.5 Substantially reduce corruption and b ­ ribery ethical companies ­ For the second year running, Elekta was identified as one of the world’s most ethical companies by the Ethisphere Institute, a global leader in defining and advancing the standards of ethical business practice. ELEKTA’S CONTRIBUTION The assessment process includes more than 200 questions on culture, environmental and social practices, Enforcing a robust compliance program to detect, ethics and compliance activities, governance, diverprevent and mitigate unlawful and unethical sity, and initiatives to support a strong value chain. behavior in all our business activities, ­raising awareness about sound business ­practices, and providing compliance training both internally and externally. ELEKTA ANNUAL REPORT 2019/20 41 IN-DEPTH SUSTAINABILITY REPORT / BUSINESS ETHICS Elekta’s Compliance Program How are we working with this? Monitoring Elekta’s compliance program consists of nine ­activities and continuous Risk improvement assessments designed to strengthen our main areas with regard to business ethics, namely anti-corruption, fair competition and public tenders, privacy and data 9 2 security as well as trade compliance. Detect  Compliance ­ and organirespond 8 1 3 zation Top-level Interactions ­commitment Practical with healthcare ­ 7 4 and ­ accessible professiopolicies nals 6 5 Third-party Communirisk managecation ment ­program­ and training 1 Top-level commitment The Board of Directors has overall responsibility for the implementation of an effective compliance program. Our President and CEO reports to the Board and our SVP Chief Compliance & Integrity Officer reports to the Board’s Audit Committee, at least four times a year on risks, programs and ongoing issues and investigations. For more information on the Compliance function and its interaction with the Board of Directors, see the Corporate Governance Report, page 63. Our President and CEO demonstrates commitment through genuine engagement and regular communication to employees on expected behavior. 2 Risk assessments 3 Compliance o ­ rganization We identify our biggest risks through systematic risk assessThe Board of Directors has assigned the SVP Chief Compliments where high-risk geographies with strategic importance ance & Integrity Officer autonomy and resources for the to Elekta are prioritized. The aim of these risk assessments is to day-to-day management of the compliance program (with identify any gaps our compliance program might have in a specific resources such as regional Compliance Officers, Global Data region and to implement actions to mitigate such deficiencies. The Privacy Officer, Global Trade Compliance Manager), and risk assessments are conducted as workshops together with the with functional reporting to the President and CEO. Tax relevant regional management and external support. These are matters are managed by Elekta’s Tax Committee and supported with specific compliance audits included in the scope Elekta’s Treasury function. of audits performed by the internal audit function. 42 ELEKTA ANNUAL REPORT 2019/20 4 Practical and a ­ ccessible policies 5 Communication and training Our Code of Conduct and Group-wide Anti-Corruption We strive to make Code of Conduct training as relevant and Policy are cornerstones in building and maintaining engaging as possible for employees and business partners. Our ­personal integrity across the company and protecting Code of Conduct and integrity trainings includes real-life case our reputation. scenarios and ethical dilemmas with focus on the psychology of The Code of Conduct is available in 12 languages and decision-making. is further elaborated by a number of corporate policies Code of Conduct training is included in the employee orientaemanating from the Board of Directors and the president tion program for new hires to ensure that all employees underand CEO, which are ­continuously kept updated. These stand Elekta’s expectations from the very start of their employinclude policies in the following areas: ment. Compliance is also an integrated part of training in the Elekta Leadership Programs. • Anti-corruption To provide hands-on and easily available guidance on the main • Conflicts of interest corporate policies, regular training videos dedicated to a specific • Fair competition topic are published internally. To ensure a wide distribution and • Confidential information that the policies are understood and practiced by all employees, • Insider trading this material is embedded in a mandatory Code of Conduct • Trade compliance course. • People/ employees The Code of Conduct training is supplemented with customized • Data privacy anti-corruption and compliance training to both Elekta employees • Risk management and business partners. We also provide such customized training • Tax strategy in-person, focusing on the risk employees face in their daily work, in various compliance areas. The Anti-Corruption Policy provides guidance to employees and business partners, primarily in various interactions with healthcare providers and professionals. Local Anti-Corruption Supplements have been developed for certain countries where we have identified a need for more detailed and stricter guidelines than the general standards set forth in the global Anti-Corruption Policy. There are a number of policies and procedures in place 6 T  hird-party risk management in Elekta to ensure customer privacy, confidentiality and program information security. They are managed in our Elekta Management System (for corporate steering documents) To manage third-party representative risk, we have strict requireas well as in our Quality Management System. The key ments on completion of an automated risk-based due diligence on global guidelines can be found in the Global Data Privacy all third-party intermediaries, and inclusion of compliance-­withPolicy, Information Security Policy and the Privacy and laws language in all representative agreements. The compliance-­ Cybersecurity guidance. The focus in these documents are with-laws clause sets forth clear expectations on business conduct to ensure our products, services and internal processes and provides audit rights. comply with GDPR, HIPAA, ISO 27001 and other applicable The third-party risk management program has been introduced privacy legislation. in three phases covering: (1) commercial intermediaries, (2) govern­ ment officials and other non-sales intermediaries such as registration agents and customs brokers and (3) high-risk product suppliers. 8 Detect and respond 7 Interactions  with ­healthcare ­professionals To facilitate employee reporting of any violations of the law or Code of Conduct, We have clear guidelines in our anti-corruption Elekta has established a global whistleblower tool, the “Elekta Integrity Line”, policy on interactions with healthcare profesavailable in all applicable languages, that can be used to anonymously report sionals. These guidelines are aligned with codes any suspected violations. All cases are checked internally by the SVP Chief that have been developed with peers in leading Compliance & Integrity Officer, and regularly reported to the Board of Directors. industry associations (e.g. COCIR and Advamed). Each relevant case is reviewed and followed up with appropriate remediation Such cooperation and alignment is key for the measures. Elekta Integrity Line is now also open for external reporting, from any creation of a binding framework for ethical stakeholders, but to date no external reports have been submitted. business conduct between the medical device In 2019/20, five cases of alleged violations of law or our Code of Conduct industry and healthcare professionals. were reported either through the Elekta Integrity Line, directly to Compliance through our specific compliance e-mail address, or through other channels. A majority of the cases pertained to violations of the People ­Policy. All relevant cases are being reviewed and followed up with appropriate measures. 9 Monitoring  and continuous ­improvement To ensure the effectiveness of a compliance program, audits are performed to uncover any possible gaps in the program, its implementation and local requirements. Where relevant, compliance-specific audits are supplemented with general audits performed by the Internal Audit function. Findings from audits are used in improving both local and global programs. Each year, we survey our employees to gauge the organization’s perception on whether we truly live our values. See page 53 for this year’s results. ELEKTA ANNUAL REPORT 2019/20 43 IN-DEPTH SUSTAINABILITY REPORT / BUSINESS ETHICS Performance and outlook Goals communicated 2018/19 Achievements 2019/20 Status New goals 2020/21 RISK ASSESSMENTS Finalize Anti-Bribery and Corruption Risk assessments for China completed and well underway for Complete anti-bribery and corruption risk assessment for Middle East, Middle East and Africa (incl. India). risk assessment in South America. Africa (incl. India) and China. Develop and implement enhanced Compliance program enhanced particularly in regards to risk All employees in customer facing sales competition law compliance proof abuse of dominance and lawful interactions during public roles to complete training on lawful gram based on result of in-depth tender processes. interactions during public tenders. risk assessment. Audit adherence to Third-Party Risk Audit partly completed. Finalize audit of adherence to ThirdManagement Program. Party Risk Management Program. Benchmark Third-Party Risk Benchmark completed. ­Management Program. Complete phase 2 of the Third-­Party Phase 2 implementation is still on-going, and phase 3 has Complete both phase 2 and 3 of Risk Management Program (i.e. anybeen initiated in conjunction with new procurement process. the Third-Party Risk Management one interacting with government ­Program. officials on Elekta’s behalf) and initiate phase 3 of said program (highrisk third-party product suppliers). 44 ELEKTA ANNUAL REPORT 2019/20 Goals communicated 2018/19 Achievements 2019/20 Status New goals 2020/21 COMMUNICATION AND TRAINING Evaluate “Leading with Integrity” Completed. The training, as a part of the Model Manager training and set plan with targets ­program, is now an integral component of the general for completion. ­manager training that is provided to all managers at Elekta. Develop “Compliance Days” Completed. The first “Compliance Days” initiative was held in Complete “Compliance Days” trainings ­initiative and “Compliance Middle East and Africa. The days covers topics such as for all Regions and “Compliance Ambassador Program”. anti-corruption and integrity, conflict of interest, processes for Ambassador Program” to cover all reporting violations, export control, data privacy, competition ­markets. law and public tender rules. The “Compliance Ambassador Program” was initiated and covers the Middle East, Africa, North America and South America. 90% of employees to complete The production of the refreshed Code of Conduct training was Refreshed Code of Conduct training refreshed Code of Conduct ­Training. delayed due to Covid-19. A new mobile platform will be used rolled out to all employees with a for deployment of the training to further facilitate and allow 100% completion rate target using for enhanced data analytics of and follow-up on results. mobile platform. Roll-out E-learning for distributors The new training app allows for external parties to receive Roll out Code of Conduct training for with targets for completion. training and distributor specific material is currently being distributors through mobile platform. developed for roll-out in the first quarter 2020/21. DETECT AND RESPOND New Ethics Survey to be launched Completed. The response rate increased significantly and Continue to improve baseline on key following launch of new organizaresults on key integrity questions were improved ­considerably. integrity questions. tion. Embed Compliance and Integrity Compliance components are included in all relevant audits audits into internal audits (where conducted by Internal Audit and will continue with further feasible). and more in-depth cooperation. Re-launch a transparency Code of Conduct training embedding openness campaign Goal retained: re-launch transparency and openness campaign and delayed due to Covid-19. and openness campaign in conjunction improve the response rate for this with refreshed Code of Conduct training. question(effectiveness of Reporting Violations Policy). Achieved Ongoing, on track Ongoing, not on track Not achieved ELEKTA ANNUAL REPORT 2019/20 45 IN-DEPTH SUSTAINABILITY REPORT / SUSTAINABLE PRODUCTION Sustainable Production We must all be mindful of the environmental impact we cause when we produce or deliver products and services. By setting ambitious targets for greenhouse gas emissions, waste management and p ­ rograms for increased circularity, Elekta is taking steps to proactively minimize our environmental footprint and advancing more sustain­able production processes. Why is this important? Sustainable The world is experiencing an unprecedented gravity of Production ­environmental crises such as climate change and ending of natural resources. No matter how big or small, we must all take actions to reduce our greenhouse gas emissions, improve the resilience to manage climate related effects on societies, and upgrade industries and manufacturing sites for a more sustainable production. Elekta is taking steps to minimize our footprint and working to advance more sustainable productions processes, this includes a more circular approach to product development and the responsible management of chemicals and waste. How are we working with this? Materials and improved circularity Developing business models based on a more circular approach will enable a decoupling of economic value APPLICABLE SUSTAIN­ABLE ­creation from the consumption of finite resources, a pre­ DEVELOPMENT GOALS requisite for a truly sustainable economy. Targets: Our innovative and high-quality products are assembled using first-class parts, sourced from our global supplier 9.4 U  pgrade all industries and infrastructures base. Elekta’s R&D department drives the application of for ­sustainability environmentally conscious design principles during the 9.5 E  nhance research and upgrade industrial product development lifecycle, actively addressing oppor­technologies tunities for low energy usage and implementation such as 12.4 R  esponsible management of chemicals and waste material selection, modular design, and circular economy. 12.5 S  ubstantially reduce waste generation The aim is to increase the lifespan of products and mate13.1 S  trengthen resilience and adaptive capacity rials by refurbishing products, reusing components, reselling to ­climate related disasters parts at their end-of-life and recycle materials to minimize wasted resources. There are a number of ongoing and planned projects for taking back parts and components of our machines at end-of-life, refurbish and subsequently re-use them. One example is the take-back of major climateintense components such as the tungsten collimator in the ELEKTA’S CONTRIBUTION Leksell Gamma Knife® for refurbishment and reuse. • Developing more sustainable manufacturing sites Significant reduction in emissions intensity • Ensuring adherence to our environmental policies and Even though Elekta’s greenhouse gas emissions are limited, standards. both direct and indirect, we are committed to the fight • Advancing the circular approach in product developagainst climate change and to work hard to continuously ment and reducing waste at our m ­ anufacturing sites reduce our footprint. Our main sources of greenhouse gas as well as packaging. emissions derive from the extraction and production of • Decrease the greenhouse gas emissions at Elekta and materials we are buying from our suppliers, transportation throughout our value chain e.g. developing more of our products and assemblies as well as business travel. energy­-efficient products, low-carbon transport alterWe constantly try to minimize our GHG emissions and try natives and ­reducing business travel. to find alternative methods for transportation and business travel that are GHG emissions independent, e.g. by coordi46 ELEKTA ANNUAL REPORT 2019/20 nating transports of goods and spare parts more efficiently. There are a number of ongoing initiatives in this regard. By introducing more efficient logistics and modalities of TOTAL EMISSIONS BY SCOPE 2019/20 transportation such as supplying goods from near production sites we can not only decrease our emissions but also costs and delivery times of transportation. Choosing to work with business partners for the management of transport of finished goods and spare parts, enables a more efficient coordination of transport of our own products as well as Scope 2, 0,4% those from other companies. By making fewer business Scope 3, 99,6% travels, we also decrease emissions whilst reducing costs and gaining efficiency for our employees. By choosing ­digital conference solutions, we are reducing the number of business travels, saving both time and the environment, –24% –31% something that was accelerated during Covid-19. Scope 2, 0,4% Scope 3, 99,6% Environmental compliance and waste ­management At Elekta, we are committed to continuously reduce the environmental impact of all operations and of our products reduction in Scope 3 GHG reduction in Scope 2 GHG and solutions and, naturally, to be compliant with applica­emissions per MSEK emissions per kwh, 2019/201) ble laws, regulations, and standards regarding the environnet sales, 2019/201) ment. To accomplish this, all our sites have local environ1) Compared to 2018/19, see page 48 and 58. mental management systems that are certified with ISO 14001. The task to improve our environmental performance, is further facilitated by having a groupwide Environmental policy and a groupwide, cross-functional coordination SCOPE 3 BY ­CATEGORY 2019/20 team, inter alia making sure that we manage our waste in GHG emissions in metric tons CO2e, in total 444,215. a safe way and monitoring that we continue to pursue and identify projects that reduce the amount of waste involved in our manufacturing, including scrap but also packaging. Hazardous waste from our operations represents only 2 Products & Services, 368,139 ­percent of our total waste, see page 58 for more info. Travel, 25,177 Transport, 50,230 Environmental impact in our supply chain Other (employee commuting, Our most prominent risks with regard to environment lie water, waste), 668 in the supply chain, particularly with regards to suppliers who specialize in heavy manufacturing processes, coating systems, chemical deposition and metallurgical casting Products & Services, 368,139 resulting in potential waste and hazardous chemical disposal. Travel, 25,177 Through our Supplier Code of Conduct, we ask of our Transport, 50,230 ­suppliers to set the same level of protection for the environOther (employee commuting, ment as we ask of ourselves. Suppliers shall operate in full water, waste), 668 compliance with applicable environmental legislation. A management system shall be in place, aimed to Improved CDP score ­continuously improve the Supplier´s environmental standards and performance. Suppliers shall identify all relevant Every year Elekta discloses information about the environmental aspects and take appropriate actions to ­company’s climate risks and opportunities, climate address these, including resource consumption, emissions, strategy, financing and data to Carbon Disclosure chemicals and waste. Resources such as water and energy ­Project (CDP), a global disclosure system for climate should be used efficiently and impacts on biodiversity as well data. This year Elekta’s general Climate Change score as services provided by our ecosystems should be minimized. was raised from D to C, and Elekta was awarded BOur suppliers are assessed and monitored also from an in the new Supplier Engagement Rating. These scores environmental risk perspective, using our Sustainable Sourcing acknowledges our ambition and actions to combat Program, read more on page 51. If any of our suppliers will ­climate change. be identified as having environmental risks in their manufacturing, they will go through our audit process and will be asked to correct any non-conformities with our Supplier Code of Conduct. During the year we conducted third-party audits of six suppliers that had been identified as high-risk, partly due to potential environmental risks. None of the audits resulted in any major findings of non-conformities as regards the environmental aspects. ELEKTA ANNUAL REPORT 2019/20 47 IN-DEPTH SUSTAINABILITY REPORT / SUSTAINABLE PRODUCTION Performance and outlook Goals communicated 2018/19 Achievements 2019/20 Status New goals 2020/21 and beyond CIRCULAR ECONOMY Coordinate a strategy for circular Ongoing. We set a cross-functional strategy and program for E  stablish and implement economy and continue drive circular economy for each business line. a take-back program for ­projects already initiated. Continued already started activities and initiated several selected parts of relevant new programs. products by 2021/22, and a refurbishment program to use reclaimed parts and components by 2025/26. WASTE MANAGEMENT Reduce negative impact from Ongoing. We set a cross-functional strategy and program for Reduce selected packaging waste and hazardous material. managing waste in more environmentally friendly manner has by 30% by 2025/26 from been rolled out in the business lines. 2019/20 baseline. S  end zero waste to landfill by 2024/25. CLIMATE CHANGE Reduce GHG emissions. Ongoing. In 2019/20, the direct (Scope 2) GHG emissions Reduce the direct (Scope 2) intensity (CO2e/kWh) decreased by 31% compared to GHG ­emissions intensity 2018/2019. In the same period, the indirect (Scope 3) GHG (CO2e/kWh) from own emissions intensity (CO2e/net sales) decreased by 24%. operations by more than In October 2019, Elekta’s site in Crawley (UK), switched to 30% by 2021/22, compared electricity from renewable sources – in line with the change to 2018/19. already completed by our sites in Sweden and the Netherlands. This change resulted in an emission decrease from Reduce the indirect GHG ­electricity in the UK of more than 45%. emissions intensity (CO2e/ net sales) from ­busi­ness travel by more than 10% GREENHOUSE GAS EMISSIONS by 2021/22, ­compared to 2018/19. 2018/19 Change, CO2e (tons) 2019/20 (Baseline) % R  educe indirect GHG emissions intensity (CO2e/net Direct GHG emissions sales) from transport and (scope 1) – – – logistics by 25% by 2025/26, Energy indirect GHG compared to 2018/19. ­emissions (scope 2) 1,576 1,6491) –4 GHG intensity per kwh (scope 2) 0.11 0.17 –31 GHG intensity per employee (scope 2) 0.38 0.45 –15 Other indirect GHG ­emissions (scope 3) 444,215 544,710 –18 GHG intensity per MSEK net sales (scope 3) 30.42 40.19 –24 Total GHG emissions 445,790 546,359 –18 1) Exludes heating. Achieved Ongoing, on track Ongoing, not on track Not achieved 48 ELEKTA ANNUAL REPORT 2019/20 IN-DEPTH SUSTAINABILITY REPORT / PEOPLE IN FOCUS People in Focus People are at the heart of Elekta’s business. We p ­ rovide an inclusive, diverse, and respectful working environment for everyone who works at Elekta. We are also committed to help protecting the human rights and labor rights of the people working in our supply chain. Why is this important? Offering a sustainable workplace for everyone working at, or People in indirectly for Elekta through our suppliers, is key for long-term Focus success. Without our people, we could not innovate new, state-of-the-art cancer treatment solutions. Elekta is a global employer with more than 4,000 employees, and our nearly 500 direct material suppliers together employ hundreds of thousands of workers. We take our responsibility as an employer and purchaser seriously, ensuring we safeguard labor rights at Elekta and throughout our value chain. Elekta offers a workplace with an opportunity to work for a higher purpose. Our employees collectively make a difference in the lives of patients around the world. Attracting and retaining qualified employees is a precondition for us to keep our successful position as innovator of cancer treatments. We offer a wide range of opportunities for our employees, such as acquiring diverse skills, gaining international experience, APPLICABLE SUSTAIN­ABLE and accessing personal development and career advancement. DEVELOPMENT GOALS Our aim is to create a culture and workplace where employees can grow professionally as well as personally. Targets: How are we working with this? 5.5. Ensure full participation in leadership and ­decision-making Our approach as employer 5.C. Adopt and strengthen policies and enforce­able Our People Policy summarizes our approach as employer legislation for gender equality and is based on internationally proclaimed human rights 8.5 Full employment and decent work with equal pay and labor rights standards. The Human Resources function 8.7. End modern slavery, trafficking, and child labor is responsible for the maintenance, training and monitoring 8.8 Protect labor rights and promote safe working of the policy as well as for investigating reports of potential environments violations. Managers in relevant functions are responsible for ensuring that the policy is implemented in their line organizations and that employees and contract workers in relevant areas of responsibility are familiar with and follow the standards set forth. Elekta’s global People Agenda aims at leveraging the full potential of our employees in executing our overall company strategy. The agenda is based on the following cornerstones: ELEKTA’S CONTRIBUTION 1. Strengthen one-Elekta culture based on leadership and Safeguarding the human rights and labor rights of individual Elekta behaviors everyone working at Elekta or in our supply chain 2. Continue to drive leadership development at all levels of globally. Ensuring that we offer an inclusive and the organization safe working place. 3. Drive focused development actions, mobility, and rotation to drive diversity and strengthen the people pipeline 4. Further reinforced people development and talent acquisition ELEKTA ANNUAL REPORT 2019/20 49 IN-DEPTH SUSTAINABILITY REPORT / PEOPLE IN FOCUS connected to current business needs and the long-term workforce planning 5. Continue to drive the HR Excellence program to improve people process efficiency, digitalization, and HR business Elekta Together Day partner capabilities The Elekta Together Day is a global event for all employees to collaborate, build connections and Following up on performance and employee together look at what we need to do to make Elekta a ­engagement better place to work. This year we gathered employees Performance reviews and development plans enable employees to create awareness of “Access for all”. In a collaborato be accountable for their performance and drive their tive effort, employees made films on the theme, tapcareer development. Employees are assigned development ping into employees’ sense of purpose. Read more plans annually and performance is reviewed quarterly. The about our quest to provide access to radiotherapy importance of acting in line with our values and for our globally on page 38–40. ­leaders, in accordance with our Leadership Cornerstones, is in constant focus. The rating is based on performance of individual objectives and overall performance. To understand what to focus on to become better as an employer as well as an organization as a whole, we conduct Our leaders play an essential role in driving our continued thorough bi-annual Group-wide employee engagement transformation. We are running global leadership develop­surveys. This survey includes a range of indices, including ment programs for Elekta managers and employees who are engagement, team efficiency and leadership. The latest identified for promotion. These include: ­comprehensive survey was conducted in February 2020. In between the larger surveys we follow up with smaller • Elekta Model Entrepreneur Program, is a one-year program pulse-surveys to understand perception and evaluate and aiming to support managers in developing their capabilities to actions to increase e.g. employee engagement, the last one drive change and encourage commitment among employees. was conducted 2019. For this year’s results, see page 53. • Elekta Model Leader Program, is also a one-year program, open to 10 participants per region per year, and is aimed Tailored training and development programs for strong leaders aspiring for a senior leadership role People development is at the top of Elekta’s strategic agenda. • Elekta Model Manager Program, tailored for new managers In today’s rapidly changing world, continuous competence to learn how to become a more effective manager and development is crucial. Elekta employees are provided with a ­covers topics such as team communication, productivity, personal development plan based on the best practice model and engagement. 70:20:10. The model involves 10 percent formal training; 20 percent developmental relationships such as peer coaching, In addition to the global programs, Elekta also offers local support from a line manager, a mentor or similar; and 70 training programs throughout the organization. This year, ­percent applying the acquired skills in the employee’s day to we launched the Early Career Assessment and Orientation Proday work, or in a stretch project. This enables the employee gram, a one-year program, to identify and develop more ­junior to maximize the development opportunity. high-potential employees across our European operations. 168 employees participated in our global leadership programs this year: 34 21 113 in the Model in the Model in the Model Entrepreneur Leader Manager Program program Program 50 ELEKTA ANNUAL REPORT 2019/20 The 22 participants represented a variety of business functraining before starting the work, and the workplace must be tions and cultural backgrounds. equipped with adequate protection materials and tools. Local working environment committees, consisting of local environA diverse and inclusive workplace mental and health and safety specialists, are responsible for We believe that a diverse workforce and an inclusive and continuous monitoring and mitigation of health and safety respectful work environment are essential components of risks at our manufacturing sites. Workplace accidents are a thriving innovative and sustainable business. Working at ­followed up by collecting data from production sites involving Elekta should mean that everyone has equal opportunities manual manufacturing work. We are concerned with the no matter gender, ethnic background, nationality or religion. health, wellbeing, and safety of all of our employees, and will Our approach is outlined in Elekta’s Diversity and Inclusion continue to develop this agenda in relation to both physical Policy and progress is evaluated against clear targets and and psychological aspects. reported annually. Our long-term goal is to increase the underrepresented Safeguarding human and labor rights gender (today female) in senior leadership positions to 30 Elekta has a global base of suppliers to Elekta’s manufacturing percent by 2022/23. We aim to achieve this by evaluating processes. Most of our suppliers of direct materials do not candidates to new roles fairly, identifying new hires with high operate in countries with a known high exposure to poor potential for managerial roles, ensuring a balanced gender human rights. Such exposure is located further upstream in distribution in our leadership programs, and developing proour supply chain, where there may be a risk that workers work cesses for equal pay for equal work. Gender pay gap reviews excessive overtime, lack freedom of association, experience of comparable roles within the company are conducted forced labor or have low wages. Some of our products contain, locally and based on local regulations and legal requirements. to a smaller extent, minerals such as cobalt and tungsten, which are often mined in high-risk or conflict-affected areas Health, wellbeing and safety of employees and there might be modern slavery-like working conditions Some of our production sites involve operating heavy machinconnected to their extraction. We are members of the ery and handling radioactive materials, which could cause Responsible Minerals Initiative and are working with them to serious damage if not carried out correctly. The health, welltrace the source of minerals in our products, ensuring the minbeing and safety of employees, as well as other stakeholders, erals have been extracted under decent working conditions. are vital aspects of our corporate responsibility and a foundaOur commitment to human rights and labor rights is set tion for our continued success. Discrimination, harassment or out in the Elekta Code of Conduct, which prohibits any form bullying at the workplace jeopardize the health and wellbeing of forced, compulsory or child labor and proclaims the right of our employees, conflict with the company’s success and to fair wages including time to rest, overtime compensation are obviously not tolerated in any form. and holidays. The Code of Conduct is complemented by a We are committed to ensuring a safe work environment Supplier Code of Conduct, which presents more specific throughout our operations, preventing workplace accidents, requirements on Elekta suppliers, in all markets and jurisdicinjuries, and illnesses. We have a vision of zero workplace tions. The Supplier Code of Conduct includes more detailed accidents by 2022. As stipulated in the Code of Conduct, and requirements on human rights and labor rights, and also in our People Policy, everyone with a job that requires specific ­covers the sourcing of conflict minerals, business ethics, safety instructions and protection will receive all necessary and environmental protection. Harnessing the opportunities Elekta Global Trainee of digital communications ­Program The Covid-19 pandemic has made it necessary for This year we rolled out a new Global Trainee Program employees to work from home in all parts of the world. with five participants from the US, Europe and China. We have harnessed the possibilities of digital communiThis offers the trainees a challenging and rewarding cations in c ­ reating a range of digital learning and develyear where they rotate between business lines, global opment tools. This includes a tool to promote development offices or work directly with our CEO. Through the proand collaboration with varied content customized for all gram, trainees gain the network, skills and business different functions. Our sales and marketing function insight to take the next step within Elekta and in time has also rolled out a complete online development curassume a leadership role. riculum for our employees. ELEKTA ANNUAL REPORT 2019/20 51 IN-DEPTH SUSTAINABILITY REPORT / PEOPLE IN FOCUS Under the Supplier Code of Conduct, all Elekta suppliers are required to set the same requirements for their suppliers. We have a solid due diligence and follow-up program GEOGRAPHIC LOCATION OF ­(Sustainable Sourcing Program) to identify and mitigate any SUPPLIERS, BY SPEND non-conformities with our Supplier Code of Conduct, and ultimately to ensure that our suppliers respect basic human and workers’ rights. The program consists of thorough self-­ assessment questionnaires supplemented by Elekta’s risk assessment. Based on this a supplier is classed in a risk group. Europe, 69% If in a medium or high risk group, we either conduct an addiAsia, 17% tional desktop analysis or an on-site audit to understand North and South America, 14% more. Our approach is always cooperation and continuous improvement, regardless of risk score. We will engage with suppliers and provide guidance when necessary to close non-conformities and improve results. Ending a business ­relationship is a last resort and only an option if the supplier Europe, 69% is not willing to improve. So far this has not been necessary. Asia, 17% Elekta’s procurement function is responsible for implementing North and South America, 14% the Supplier Code of Conduct and the Sustainable Sourcing Program, with support from and overview by the Global ­Sustainability Manager. Sustainable Sourcing Program DUE DILLIGENCE ELEKTA RISK GRADING Supplier HIGH 1 2 3 Supplier questionnaire in Compliance Desktop On-site audit Any identified Follow-up together with Elekta (third-party non-conformities: audit Assessment. auditor) ­Corrective action plan in ­dialogue with the supplier within six months MEDIUM P  ossible desk-top audit, seeking clarifications or additional information LOW No audit warranted 52 ELEKTA ANNUAL REPORT 2019/20 Performance and outlook Goals communicated 2018/19 Achievements 2019/20 Status New goals 2020/21 and beyond EMPLOYEE EXPERIENCE AND TALENT DEVELOPMENT Increase the employee Net Our eNPS increased to +1 compared to –7 in the last full Increase eNPS ­Promoter Score (eNPS) to 15 employee survey in 2018. We continue to make progress to 20 by 2022/23. by 2019/20 and to 20 by 2021/22. upwards with this metric, but not quite at the rate we had anticipated a year ago. The ambition of eNPS 20 is retained. Reduce personal turnover rate The employee voluntary attrition rate decreased during Goal retained: Reduce ­(voluntary attrition rate) to 7% the year to 7,9% ­(from 9.5 % 2018/19). The attrition rate ­voluntary attrition rate to by 2022/23 globally. is continuously monitored. 7% by 2022/23. Improve overall employee Ongoing. The 2020 employee survey recorded overall improveGoal retained: Continue to experience based on results ments in team efficiency, leadership and engagement. All improve overall employee from employee engagement ­categories are above the external benchmark. For example, experience based on results survey (e.g. employer brand, 91% of employees responded positively to the question from individual employee and employee engagement, strengthwhether they are willing to make an extra effort to make team discussions, comprehenened communication throughout Elekta more successful. The high response rate in the survey sive or pulse surveys and other the organization). is maintained, 87% this year. dialogue foras. In 2019/20, all employees received regular performance and career development reviews. DIVERSITY AND INCLUSION Increased focus on improving During the year, female representation in critical business Increase the female/under­ the gender balance in management ­positions /manager level rose to 22%. Our commitment to represented gender positions. Increase female/undergender diversity is strong. It is stressed in our Diversity & Inclu­representations in critical represented gender representation sion ­Policy and it is for example always a factor when looking ­business positions to 30% at critical business positions/manager at the composition of our development programs. However, by 2022/23. level from today’s 19% to 30% by progress in the area takes time and the goal has been slightly 2021/22. prolonged to allow for talent to grow within the organization. Narrowing the gender pay gap in Ongoing. Preparatory work conducted, allowing us to launch a Implement, assess and review the UK and globally (to have develglobal approach to assessing gender pay gaps globally next year. gender pay gap reviews in our oped a definition and method for larger sites globally in a meanassessing gender pay gaps globally ingful way. within Elekta). Promote a geographically and Ongoing. As a truly global company, we promote cultural and Goal retained: Continue to ­culturally diverse workforce. diverse workforce through building the local competences and promote a geographically and ensuring globally diverse representation in all our development culturally diverse workforce. programs. Achieved Ongoing, on track Ongoing, not on track Not achieved ELEKTA ANNUAL REPORT 2019/20 53 IN-DEPTH SUSTAINABILITY REPORT / PEOPLE IN FOCUS Goals communicated 2018/19 Achievements 2019/20 Status New goals 2020/21 and beyond HEALTH AND SAFETY Zero vision of workplace ­accidents In 2019/20 we recorded in total 25 incidents (and lost-time Goal retained: by 2022/23. Strive for healthy work cases) in all sites. This is an increase of 2 incidents compared • Zero vision of workplace environment globally, incl. work-life to last year (and includes non-work related accidents). ­accidents by 2022. balance, by e.g. developing a global There have been 9 incidents of discrimination this year, of • Develop the global work environwork environment policy with prowhich 8 have been investigated and resolved without any further ment policy (incl. psychologial cesses for its implementation, and actions. One incident is still ongoing and delayed to due Covidwork environment). managing long term sick-leave 19. Reported incidents of discrimination are primarily reviewed numbers. by local HR function as well as by an independent party. Developing our policies covering work environment is underway, building on the knowledge we have gained from our initiatives to date. One of the areas of focus will be the psychological work environment and mental health. SUPPLIER HUMAN AND LABOR RIGHTS Supplier Code of Conduct training Ongoing. 30% of procurement staff have undertaken suppleOngoing target, retained. to procurement staff as required. mentary Supplier Code of Conduct training during the year (including human rights policies and procedures) which corresponds to 56 hours of training. Phase 2 suppliers (remaining Ongoing. All phase 1 suppliers have been assessed (of which Expand the Sustainable Sourcing ­number of direct material suppliers) 26 were assessed during the year, see below for results) and Program to appropriate indirect to complete Compliance Desktop all phase 2 (remaining number of direct material suppliers, suppliers by 2020/21 and continue questionnaire in FY 2019/20. 171) are currently completing Compliance Desktop questionassess direct ­suppliers. naire and are undergoing our supplier due diligence program. This step to be fully completed first quarter 2020/21. All relevant suppliers have agreed to commit to our Supplier Code of Conduct. Continue on-site audits of identified Completed. In 2019/20, our supplier due diligence (phase 1 Audit all new high-risk high-risk suppliers, and conduct suppliers) resulted in 8 suppliers being considered high risk. suppliers by 2020/21. desktop audits of medium-risk These included risks relating to health and safety, working ­suppliers. hours, compensation and benefits, freedom of association and social compliance supply chain due diligence. After internal assessment, six high-risk suppliers remained of which we conducted onsite (third-party) audits. After the audits the few so called “zero-tolerance” findings (consisting of inaccurate documentation) were corrected in a reasonable time period, therefore no further escalation required. No supplier relationships have needed be terminated. There have been no suppliers classified as medium risk this year. Member of Responsible Minerals Ongoing. With the help of RMI tools, we have developed a 100% of Elekta suppliers of ­Initiative (RMI) and continue to plan to enhance our material origin due diligence and deter­products with 3TGs /cobalt to focus on determining the source mination of source of minerals. require their smelters validated countries of minerals used in by 2021/22. ­Elekta products. Achieved Ongoing, on track Ongoing, not on track Not achieved 54 ELEKTA ANNUAL REPORT 2019/20 IN-DEPTH SUSTAINABILITY REPORT / SUSTAINABILITY ­G OVERNANCE AND REPORTING PRINCIPLES Sustainability ­governance and ­reporting principles Structured sustainability governance, stakeholder dialogues and materiality assessments ensure that we focus where it matters and enable us to track our progress. Corporate responsibility governance ­structure program. It convenes at least three times a year, but also By incorporating the program for corporate responsibility into when specific circumstances call for it. The committee comour line operations we ensure effective management and prises the CEO and five members of the Executive Managealignment with other strategic initiatives and targets. ment including functions such as Compliance and Integrity, The Board of Directors governs Elekta’s corporate responsiOperations, Procurement, HR, Communications, and Finance. bility program on a high level and our CEO reports to the The work of this group streamlines the process of implementBoard on major issues. Starting in November 2019, the Group’s ing relevant actions and targets throughout the different new Compensation and Sustainability Committee oversees functions and business lines in our organization, as well as regularly Elekta’s environmental and social work. Matters permeasuring results. The corporate responsibility program is tinent to business ethics and compliance are still overseen by developed and managed by the Compliance and Integrity the Audit Committee, see page 63. function at Elekta, and managed by the SVP Chief Compliance The cross-functional Corporate Reporting Steering Comand Integrity Officer and the Global Sustainability Manager. mittee is responsible for integrating and implementing the BOARD OF DIRECTORS Compensation and Audit Committee Sustainability Committee GROUP MANAGEMENT Corporate Responsibility Steering Committee GROUP FUNCTIONS HR Supply Chain Management Oncology BrachyMR Linac Linac Neuro Information therapy System Compliance/Legal Quality assurance ELEKTA ANNUAL REPORT 2019/20 55 IN-DEPTH SUSTAINABILITY REPORT / SUSTAINABILITY ­G OVERNANCE AND REPORTING PRINCIPLES Defining material topics and reporting This year Elekta carried out a thorough gap and benchmark ­content: stakeholder engagement and analysis comparing the sustainability program and reporting materiality assessment with industry standards, peers and various sustainability rating Our approach to sustainability is all about to focus where it indices. The analysis proved that our reporting is generally in line matters the most. By engaging with stakeholders and continwith best practice, but also identified a couple of areas for uously developing our corporate responsibility program, we improvement. As regards environmental aspects, Elekta has a have the best opportunity to conduct our business sustain­ relatively small impact compared to other industries. For examably and thrive in an ever-changing environment. ple, our greenhouse gas emissions are limited (nothing in Scope In 2018/19, Elekta engaged with investors and employees in 1 and little in Scope 2) and we have no significant water cona large stakeholder dialogue. All institutional investors that sumption. Our limited impact has also been apparent in earlier we have continuous dialogue with were surveyed with a 100 stakeholder dialogues and materiality assessments. However, percent response rate. The survey was also sent to all our considering the increased importance environmental issues has employees as well as our Executive Management and their for the wider society we must all – no matter how large or small directly reporting managers. Stakeholders were asked to rank our impact is – contribute to minimizing our environmental various sustainability issues and individual topics based on footprint and combating climate change. their importance to our business and their impact on sustainTo make these modifications on our work programs for susable development. Input from relevant networks as well as tainability more consistent and clearer for external stakeholdgeneral external stakeholder priorities of the medical supplies ers, we changed the names of our two of our focus areas to sector were also taken into account. Finally, we analyzed the Access to radiotherapy and Sustainable Production. Sustain­ results and discussed in the Corporate Responsibility Steering able Production places emphasis on our production, supply Committee how issues raised align with our priorities and chain and their environmental footprint. Issues related to opportunities to contribute to a sustainable development. human rights and labor rights in the supply chain have been relocated to People in Focus. Forums for sustainable development Elekta is an active member in networks and industry • UN Global Compact and its Swedish network associations working on sustainability and human rights • Swedish Leadership for Sustainable Development to ensure that we contribute to, and are up to date with, • Responsible Minerals Initiative the global sustainability agenda. We are actively partici• ICC Sweden’s Sustainability Committee pating and collaborating in networks and organizations • Swedish Medtech’s forum for s­ ustainability affairs such as the following: • COCIR (e.g. the EHS steering committee) • Nordic Center for Sustainable Healthcare 56 ELEKTA ANNUAL REPORT 2019/20 Our material topics and their boundaries Drawing on the conclusions from High the stakeholder dialogue, legal 5 requirements, risks and oppor­ tunities, we have identified a set of important topics. These topics cover a wide range of different IMPORTANCE TO ELEKTA’S STAKEHOLDERS 15 4 issues along the value chain. The 9 16 3 table below describes the specific 17 boundaries – where the impact 2 occurs. 7 6 14 Medium 8 18 11 10 12 13 1 All the topics shown in this diagram are important in our corporate responsibility work. Those in the top right corner of the diagram are most important to our busiLow ness and sustainable development IMPACT ON ELEKTA’S BUSINESS Low Medium High Agents, ­distributors, Material topic Supply chain Elekta customers, and patients ACCESS TO RADIOTHERAPY 1 Access to healthcare and philanthropy • • 2 Customer health and safety • 3 Innovation and R&D • BUSINESS ETHICS 4 Anti-corruption • • • 5 Fair competition and public tenders • • 6 Effective corporate governance and board oversight • 7 Export control and safe trading • • 8 Tax management • 9 Customer privacy • SUSTAINABLE PRODUCTION 10 Circular economy • • • 11 Emissions • • • 12 Waste management • 13 Environmental impact in supply chain • PEOPLE IN FOCUS 14 Employee engagement • 15 Occupational health and safety • 16 Diversity and inclusion • 17 Supply chain and labor rights • 18 Human rights assessment • 1) See pages 59 for the GRI Content Index with page references for each material topic. ELEKTA ANNUAL REPORT 2019/20 57 IN-DEPTH SUSTAINABILITY REPORT / SUSTAINABILITY ­G OVERNANCE AND REPORTING PRINCIPLES Reporting data and principles Business ethics data Diversity of governance bodies and employees, 2019/20 In 2019/20 there were no substantiated complaints concerning Gender, % Men Women breaches of customer privacy or losses of customer data. During the year, Elekta’s Czech Republic subsidiary, Elekta Board of Directors 62.5 37.5 Services s.r.o., was subject to investigation for bid-rigging and Group management 81,3 18,7 corruption in connection with a public tender. For pending All employees legal disputes, see page 85. (see employee data for no gender recorded) 27.6 65.6 No age Employee data1) Age, % –30 years 30–50 years 50– years recorded Total number of employees by employment contract ­(permanent and temporary), by gender Board of Directors 0 12.5 87.5 – Group management 0 46.7 53.3 – Permanent Temporary ­contract ­contract Total All employees 8.8 61 22.8 7.5 Women 1,168 10 1,178 Men 2,781 18 2,799 Environmental data Non-categorized 288 0 288 Greenhouse gas emissions Total 4,237 28 4,265 Greenhouse gas emissions are presented as carbon dioxide equivalents (CO2e) as per the Greenhouse Gas Protocol’s Total number of employees by employment contract Scopes 1, 2 and 3. Emission factors are predominantly based ­(permanent and temporary), by region on data from DEFRA 2018 (includes all greenhouse gases) for Permanent Temporary electricity, heating, travel, transport, waste, and water; World contract contract Total Input Output Database 2013 (includes CO2, CH4, N2O) for product and services; and Eurostat (includes all greenhouse North America 1,020 6 1,026 gases) for employee commuting. Some travel and transport South America 66 1 67 suppliers have provided CO2e data to Elekta directly. Electri­ Europe 1,884 20 1,904 city and heating have been calculated using cost or actual Middle East and Africa kWh amount; travel has been calculated using travel mode (incl. India) 201 0 201 and distance travelled; transport has been calculated using China 777 1 778 transport mode, weight of transported goods and distance Japan 148 0 148 of transport; products and services have been calculated by Asia Pacific 141 0 141 spend per category; employee commuting has been calcuTotal number of e­ mployees 4,237 28 4,265 lated by numbers of employees per country; waste has been Total number of employees by employment type calculated using type, weight and end-of-life scenario of (full-time and part-time), by gender waste; water has been calculated based on cubic meters. Global warming potential values (GWP) are based on the Full-time Part-time Total IPCC Fourth Assessment Report (AR4). Elekta uses the financial approach for consolidating GHG emissions and is not offsetWomen 1,139 39 1,178 ting carbon. The calculations were carried out by a thirdMen 2,759 40 2,799 party provider. Non-categorized 277 11 288 Total number of employees 4,175 90 4,265 Materials Collective bargaining agreements (weight in metric tons) 2019/20 All employees have the right to join a trade union and to bargain collectively in accordance with local laws and applicable Non-renewable materials 2,640 conventions. Everyone who works for Elekta should have the Renewable materials 0 right to fair terms and conditions according to local rules and Total 2,640 regulations, including contractual working time, time to rest, overtime and holidays. Employees, whether they are covered Waste by collective bargaining agreements or not, are competitively Energy (weight in metric tons) recovery Recycling Landfill Incineration and fairly compensated for their work. At year end, 11 percent of Elekta’s employees are covered by collective bargaining Non-hazardous 340 113 69 0 agreements. Hazardous 3 0 0 4 Total 343 113 69 4 1) Includes contractors. 58 ELEKTA ANNUAL REPORT 2019/20 IN-DEPTH SUSTAINABILITY REPORT / GRI CONTENT INDEX GRI content index Disclosure Page Omissions / GRI Standard ­number Disclosure name reference Comment GRI 101: FOUNDATION 2016 GRI 102: GENERAL DISCLOSURES 2016 ORGANISATIONAL PROFILE 102-1 Name of the organisation. 83 102-2 Activities, brands, products and services 12–13, 15–25, 83 102-3 Location of headquarters 83 102-4 Location of operations 12–13 102-5 Ownership and legal form 34, 83 102-6 Markets served 12–13, 15, 26-29, 114 102-7 Scale of the organisation 15, 58, 85, 94, 125 102-8 Information on employees and other workers 58 102-9 Supply chain 12, 52 102-10 Significant changes to the organisation and its supply chain — Not applicable 102-11 Precautionary principle or approach 36 102-12 External initiatives 36 102-13 Membership of associations 56 STRATEGY 102-14 Statement from President /CEO (senior decision-maker) 6–7 ETHICS AND INTEGRITY 102-16 Values, principles, standards and norms of behaviour 10, 36, 43, 50 GOVERNANCE 102-18 Governance structure 65, 69–70 STAKEHOLDER ENGAGEMENT 102-40 List of stakeholder groups 56 102-41 Collective bargaining agreements 58 102-42 Basis for identification and selection of stakeholders 56 102-43 Approach to stakeholder engagement 56 102-44 Key topics and concerns raised 57 REPORTING PRACTICE 102-45 Entities included in the consolidated financial statements 125 102-46 Process for defining the report content and the topic boundaries 56 102-47 List of material topics 57 102-48 Restatements of information — 102-49 Changes in reporting — 102-50 Reporting period 62 102-51 Date of most recent report 62 102-52 Reporting cycle. 62 102-53 Contact point for questions regarding the report 62 102-54 Reporting in accordance with the GRI Standards 62 102-55 GRI content index 63–65 102-56 External assurance 62 ELEKTA ANNUAL REPORT 2019/20 59 IN-DEPTH SUSTAINABILITY REPORT / GRI CONTENT INDEX Material topics Disclosure Page Omissions / GRI Standard ­number Disclosure name reference Comment ACCESS TO HEALTHCARE AND PHILANTROPY GRI 103: ­Management 103-1–3 Explanation of the material topic, its boundary 38–39, 57 Approach 2016 and management approach CUSTOMER HEALTH AND SAFETY GRI 103: ­Management 103-1–3 Explanation of the material topic, its boundary 39, 57 Approach 2016 and management approach INNOVATION AND R&D GRI 103: ­Management 103-1–3 Explanation of the material topic, its boundary 1, 12, 39, 57 Approach 2016 and management approach Company specific N/A Investments in R&D 12 ­disclosure ANTI-CORRUPTION GRI 103: ­Management 103-1–3 Explanation of the material topic, its boundary 42–45, 57, 71 Approach 2016 and management approach GRI 205: Anti-­corruption 205-3 Confirmed incidents of corruption and actions taken 58, 85 2016 FAIR COMPETITION AND PUBLIC TENDERS GRI 103: ­Management 103-1–3 Explanation of the material topic, its boundary 42–45, 57, 71 Approach 2016 and management approach GRI 206: Anti-­competitive 206-1 Legal actions for anti-competitive behavior, anti-trust, 58,85 Behavior 2016 and monopoly practices EFFECTIVE CORPORATE GOVERNANCE AND BOARD OVERSIGHT GRI 103: ­Management 103-1–3 Explanation of the material topic, its boundary 42–45, 57, 69–70 Approach 2016 and management approach Company specific N/A Reported violations of Code of Conduct 43 disclosure EXPORT CONTROL AND SAFE TRADING GRI 103: ­Management 103-1–3 Explanation of the material topic, its boundary 42–45, 57, 71 Approach 2016 and management approach TAX MANAGEMENT GRI 103: ­Management 103-1–3 Explanation of the material topic, its boundary 42–43, 118–119 Approach 2016 and management approach CIRCULAR ECONOMY GRI 103: ­Management 103-1–3 Explanation of the material topic, its boundary 46, 48, 57 Approach 2016 and management approach GRI 301: Materials 2016 301-1 Materials used by weight or volume 58 EMISSIONS GRI 103: ­Management 103-1–3 Explanation of the material topic, its boundary 46–48, 57 Approach 2016 and management approach GRI 305: Emissions 2016 305-1 Direct (Scope 1) GHG emissions 48, 58 305-2 Energy indirect (Scope 2) GHG emissions 47–48, 58 305-3 Other indirect (Scope 3) GHG emissions 47–48, 58 305-4 GHG emissions intensity 47–48, 58 WASTE MANAGEMENT AND ENVIRONMENTAL COMPLIANCE GRI 103: ­Management 103-1–3 Explanation of the material topic, its boundary 46–48,57 Approach 2016 and management approach GRI 306: Waste­ 306-2 Waste by type and disposal method 58 For 73% of the total waste ­Management 2016 disclosed, data is based on January–December 2019. This will be adjusted for in next year’s report. GRI 307: Environ­mental 307-1 Non-compliance with environmental laws and regulations — Elekta has not been subject Compliance 2016 to any significant fines or non-monetary sanctions for non-compliance with environmental laws 60 ELEKTA ANNUAL REPORT 2019/20 Material topics (cont.) Disclosure Page Omissions / GRI Standard ­number Disclosure name reference Comment EMPLOYEE ENGAGEMENT GRI 103: ­Management 103-1–3 Explanation of the material topic, its boundary 50, 53,57 Approach 2016 and management approach Company specific N/A Employee engagement and NPS 53 ­disclosure OCCUPATIONAL HEALTH & SAFETY GRI 103: Management 103-1–3 Explanation of the material topic,its boundary 51, 54, 57 Approach 2016 and management approach GRI 406: Non-­ 406-1 Incidents of discrimination and corrective actions taken 54 discrimination 2016 Company specific N/A Number of recorded incidents 54 ­disclosure N/A Number of lost time cases 54 TRAINING AND EDUCATION GRI 103: ­Management 103-1–3 Explanation of the material topic, its boundary 50–51, 57 Approach 2016 and management approach GRI 404: Training and 404-2 Programs for upgrading employee skills and transition 50–51, 53 education 2016 ­assistance programs 404-3 Percentage of employees receiving regular performance 53 and career development reviews DIVERSITY AND INCLUSION GRI 103: Management 103-1–3 Explanation of the material topic, its boundary and 51, 53, 57 Approach 2016 management approach GRI 405: Diversity and 405-1 Diversity of governance bodies and employees 58 equal opportunity 2016 HUMAN RIGHTS ASSESSMENT GRI 103: Management 103-1–3 Explanation of the material topic, its boundary and 51–52, 54, 57 approach 2016 management approach GRI 412: Human Rights 412-2 Employee training on human rights policies or procedures 54 Assessment 2016 SUPPLIER SOCIAL ASSESSMENT (INCL. ENVIRONMENTAL ASSESSMENT) GRI 103: Management 103-1–3 Explanation of the material topic, its boundary and 47, 51–52, 54, 57 approach 2016 management approach GRI 414: Supplier Social 414-2 Negative social impacts in the supply chain 54 Assessment 2016 and actions taken Company specific N/A Number of audits of high-risk suppliers – results 54 ­disclosure and follow-up actions /sanctions CUSTOMER PRIVACY GRI 103: Management 103-1–3 Explanation of the material topic, its boundary and 42–43,57 approach 2016 management approach GRI 418: Customer 418-1 Substantiated complaints concerning breaches of 58 ­Privacy 2016 customer privacy and losses of customer data ELEKTA ANNUAL REPORT 2019/20 61 IN-DEPTH SUSTAINABILITY REPORT / AUDITOR’S REPORT ABOUT THE S ­ USTAINABILITY REPORT STATUTORY SUSTAINABILITY REPORT This sustainability report covers the fiscal year 2 ­ 019/20 This report has been prepared in accordance with (May 1, 2019–April 30, 2020). Elekta publishes a sustain­ the S ­ wedish Annual Accounts Act. Please refer to ability report annually. Last year’s report was p ­ ublished the table below for page references. on July 12, 2019. The report covers all Elekta’s fully-owned sub­sidiaries – Pages see note 19, for details. There have been no restatements of information. Business model 12–13 Environmental matters 46–48 The report constitutes Elekta’s Communication of Social matters and employees 49–54 ­Progress in line with the UN Global Compact’s guideHuman rights 51–54 lines. The report has been prepared in accordance Anti-corruption 41–45 with GRI Standards: Core level. Sustainability risks 32–33, 41, 46–47, 49, 51 Auditor’s report 62 Questions or comments? We would like to hear from you. Please contact Lisa Hjalmarsson, Global Sustainability Manager, lisa.hjalmarsson@elekta.com Auditor’s report on the statutory ­sustainability statement To the general meeting of the shareholders of Elekta AB (publ), corporate identity number 556170-4015 Engagement and responsibility Opinion It is the Board of Directors who is responsible for the statutory A statutory sustainability report has been prepared. sustainability statement for the year 2019-05-01 – 2020-04-30 on pages 35–62 and that it has been prepared in accordance Stockholm, 10 July 2020 with the Annual Accounts Act. Ernst & Young AB The scope of the audit Signature on original auditors’ report in Swedish1) Our examination has been conducted in accordance with FAR’s auditing standard RevR 12 The auditor’s opinion regardRickard Andersson ing the statutory sustainability statement. This means that Authorized Public Accountant our examination of the corporate governance statement is 1) T his is a translation of the original auditors’ report in Swedish. In the event different and substantially less in scope than an audit conof any differences between the translation and the original statement in ducted in accordance with International Standards on AuditSwedish, the Swedish version shall prevail ing and generally accepted auditing standards in Sweden. We believe that the examination has provided us with sufficient basis for our opinions. 62 ELEKTA ANNUAL REPORT 2019/20 ”Contributing to overcoming the ­disparity in cancer treatment access is one of our most important priorities, both from a business and ­sustainability ­perspective.” Laurent Leksell Chairman of the Board CORPORATE GOVERNANCE REPORT ELEKTA ANNUAL REPORT 2019/20 63 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE REPORT / CHAIRMAN’S COMMENTS Increased clinical importance of ­radiation therapy Elekta’s disease focus is the care of cancer and neurological diseases and over the years we have grown to become a key industrial partner in radiation therapy to healthcare providers globally. Radiotherapy is the most cost-effective treatment option for cancer and has developed from being a relatively imprecise technology to becoming more surgical and a safer treatment solution. It is also moving from being a therapy into the new field of radiation medicine at large. This has increased the clinical importance of radiation therapy. Even though a communicable disease, Covid-19, rightfully claimed everyone’s attention in 2020, the long-term challenges for global health care systems remains the three big families of non-communicable diseases: diabetes, cancer and cardiovascular disease. Cancer is now the second most common cause of death globally and the leading cause of death in high–income countries. In addition, there is a huge discrepancy in the treatment around the world. While around 80 percent of the global radiotherapy and cancer care capacity is in high income countries, only one fifth of the population is. Contributing to overcoming the disparity in treatment access ”We need to make is one of our most important priorities, both from a business and sustainability perspective. During the year, the Board has sure that Elekta continues to improve strengthened its grip on sustainability issues. Elekta’s sustainability agenda is now prepared by two board committees: the Audit Committee for governance, compliance and risk related issues and the Compensation and Sustainability Committee for all remaining sustainability aspects. its competitiveness We have a strong board at Elekta, with an openness and engagement in the discussions that I appreciate. As we cover all and has the financial important strategic areas for the company during a fiscal year, all directors have a deep understanding of the company – its strength to do so.” markets, organization and technology. This year, aside from technology and innovation, we gave extra focus to the effects of the reorganization and management development and sucmeasures. Until we can foresee the full effect of the pancession matters, as well as to sustainability management. demic, we need to make sure that Elekta continues to improve With the resignation of Dr Richard Hausmann, the Board its competitiveness and has the financial strength to do so. decided to let Richard leave immediately to make sure that Based on this, the Board of Directors proposes to the AGM a we keep up the momentum during the search for a perma­dividend in line with the minimum level of the dividend policy. nent new CEO. We are convinced that Gustaf Salford and the However, Elekta has a strong financial position, which is why executive management team has the engagement and leadthe Board of Directors may call for an Extraordinary General ership qualifications to drive Elekta’s performance even in Meeting to propose an additional dividend to bring the total these challenging pandemic times. Elekta’s competent team dividend in line with the previous year’s level. will drive our growth and continue focusing on innovations to Even if the impact of Covid-19 is difficult to predict, for now improve radiotherapy for the benefit of all cancer patients. we do know that the need for cancer care will continue to On behalf of all members of the Board, I would like to thank grow. Elekta makes sustainable and meaningful contributions Richard Hausmann for his contributions in Elekta during his to ­further improve the effectiveness and global access to canfour years as CEO. cer care and Precision Radiation Medicine. We still do not know the full impact of Covid-19. Short–term economically, it will be a historically severe shock to the world Laurent Leksell economy, but it is also met by unprecedented stimulatory Chairman of the Board 64 ELEKTA ANNUAL REPORT 2019/20 Elekta AB (publ) is a Swedish public limited liability company listed on Nasdaq Stockholm. Elekta considers good corporate governance, including risk management and internal ­control, to be an important element of a successful business operation since it provides opportunities for maintaining confidence among customers, patients, shareholders, authorities and other stakeholders. Elekta’s corporate governance report 2019/20 was ­prepared by the Company’s Board of Directors, in accordance with the annual accounts act and the Swedish corporate governance code, as a separate report from the Board of Directors’ report, and it has been reviewed by the Company’s external auditor. Elekta’s structure for corporate governance Laurent Leksell, as chairman of the nomination committee. An overview of Elekta’s1) structure for corporate governance is This was motivated by the fact that Laurent Leksell, in his set out in the illustration below. The different corporate bodies capacity as the major shareholder, is well suited to effectively that are included in the structure are described in more detail lead the work of the nomination committee in order to in this report in the order specified below. achieve the best result for the Company’s shareholders. Elekta has implemented and complied with the Swedish corAccording to point 2.4 of the Code, the chairman of the porate governance code (the Code)2) with one exception Board of Directors is not to be the chairman of the nominaduring the fiscal year of 2019/20. Elekta’s nomination committion committee. tee resolved to appoint the chairman of the Board of Directors, ­ LEKTA’S GOVERNANCE STRUCTURE E As per April 30, 2020 External 2 Nomination committee 1 Shareholders 3 auditor Internal 4 Board of Directors 9 audit 4.1 4.2 Compensation Audit and sustainability committee committee 5 President and CEO 7 Compliance 6 Executive management RA&Q 8 Risk management Elects/Appoints Informs /Reports direct Internal control Informs (e.g. directions, objectives, steering documents)/ Informs /Reports indirect Reports (e.g. results, compliance, deviations) 1) ”Elekta” or the “Group” refers to the Elekta Group which includes Elekta AB (publ) and its subsidiaries, and “Elekta AB” and the “Company” or the “Parent Company” refers to Elekta AB (publ). 2) The Code can be found at www.corporategovernanceboard.se. ELEKTA ANNUAL REPORT 2019/20 65 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE REPORT 1 Shareholders The following was resolved at the AGM 2019: • A dividend payment of SEK 1.80 per share to Shares and votes ­shareholders to be divided into two separate Elekta AB’s B share is since 1994 listed on NASDAQ Stockholm. ­payments of SEK 0.90 each On April 30, 2020, the total number of registered shares in • Discharge from liability of the members of the Elekta AB was 383,568,409 divided between 14,980,769 Series Board of Directors as well as the President and A shares and 368,587,640 Series B shares. At the general CEO for management of the company in the meetings of shareholders, which are the forum in which 2018/19 fiscal year shareholders may exercise influence, Series A shares entitle • Adoption of fees to the Board of Directors totaling the holder to 10 votes each, while Series B shares carry one SEK 5,130,000 (5,165,000), of which SEK 1,280,000 vote each. (1,165,000) to the chairman of the Board of Directors Laurent Leksell has been the largest shareholder of Elekta and SEK 550,000 (500,000) to each of the other AB since the listing on NASDAQ Stockholm and controlled external members of the Board of Directors, as through own and related parties’ holdings as per 30 April, well as remuneration for board committee work 2020, 30.5 percent of the votes. of SEK 115,000 (110,000) to the chairman of the Read more about the share, the shareholders and Elekta’s compensation and sustainability ­committee and dividend policy on page 34. SEK 80,000 (75,000) to each of the other members of the committee, and SEK 240,000 (225,000) to General meeting of shareholders the chairman of the audit committee and SEK The general meeting of shareholders is Elekta AB’s highest 150,000 (135,000) to each of the other members decision-making body at which the shareholders can exercise of the committee their right to make decisions in certain company matters. In • Re-election of Laurent Leksell, Caroline addition to the annual general meeting of shareholders Leksell Cooke, Johan Malmquist, Tomas Puusepp, (AGM), extraordinary general meetings of shareholders may ­Wolfgang Reim, Jan Secher, Birgitta Stymne be held at the discretion of the Board of Directors or if Göransson and Cecilia Wikström as members requested by the external auditor or by shareholders holding of the Board of Directors. Laurent Leksell was at least 10 percent of the shares. re-elected as chairman The AGM is held in Stockholm, Sweden. The date and venue • Election of Ernst & Young AB as external auditor, for the meeting will be announced on Elekta’s website www. with authorized public accountant Rickard Andersson elekta.com not later than in connection with the third interim as the auditor in charge report for the period May–January. Notification of the AGM is • Adoption of guidelines for remuneration of senior published, according to the rules of the Swedish companies executives act, not earlier than six weeks and not later than four weeks • Adoption of the share-based long-term incentive in advance of the meeting. program, Performance Share Plan 2019, to be Disclosures on direct or indirect shareholdings in Elekta AB offered to executive management and certain representing at least one-tenth of the voting rights, and inforkey employees mation about authorizations by the general meeting of • Authority for the Board of Directors for acquisition shareholders for the Board of Directors to decide upon acquiand transfer of own shares sition of own shares, are set out on page 34. AGM 2019 The AGM 2019 was held in Stockholm, Sweden, on August 22, 2019. The meeting was attended by 529 shareholders, either personally or by proxy, corresponding to approximately 71 percent of the votes in the Company. All members of the Board of Directors were present at the meeting. 2 Nomination committee Further information regarding the AGM 2019, including the minutes, is available at www.elekta.com. No other general meetThe responsibilities of the nomination committee ings of shareholders were held during the 2019/20 fiscal year. The main responsibility of the nomination committee is to prepare proposals for adoption at the AGM with respect to AGM 2020 election and remuneration matters, as for instance election The AGM 2020 will be held on August 26, 2020. More information of chairman of the general meeting, directors and external regarding the AGM 2020 is found on the inside of the cover back. auditor as well as remuneration to the directors and the external auditor. Appointment of nomination committee The 2019 AGM resolved that the nomination committee for the 2020 AGM would be appointed through a procedure whereby the chairman of the Board of Directors would contact the four largest shareholders in terms of voting rights, besides the shareholder or shareholders the chairman of the 66 ELEKTA ANNUAL REPORT 2019/20 Board of Directors may represent. The assessment of which Rickard Andersson was born in 1973 and is an authorized public shareholders that are the largest shall be based on Euroclear accountant. During the year, he was also the elected auditor in Sweden’s shareholder statistics as of the last banking day in charge of, inter alia, Alimak, Hexagon, Munters, Pricer and September. These shareholders would be given the opportuSSAB. He has no assignments in any other company that affect nity to appoint one person each who, together with the chairhis independence as the auditor in charge of Elekta AB. man of the Board of Directors, would constitute the nominaEY has performed the audit of Elekta for the 2019/20 fiscal tion committee. The chairman of the nomination committee year, in accordance with a risk-based external audit plan, would, unless the nomination committee unanimously resulting in the unqualified auditor’s report and statement, decides otherwise, be the member of the nomination comwhich are available on page 137. mittee appointed by the largest shareholder in terms of voting rights. No remuneration would be paid to the members of Services and fees the nomination committee. According to the audit committee’s guidelines, services in The composition of the nomination committee for the 2020 addition to audit services, known as permissible non-audit AGM is set out below. The assignment for the nomination comservices, that Elekta may procure from the external auditor in mittee is valid until the end of the next AGM or, where applicable, order to assure that the impartiality and independence of the until a new nomination committee has been appointed. external auditor is not put at risk, may not exceed 70 percent of the cost for audit services measured over a three-year period. The audit committee may decide to make exceptions under certain circumstances. The The nomination nomination committee committee forfor the the 2020 2020 AGM annual Non-audit services procured from EY during the 2019/20 fis­general meeting of shareholders cal year adhered to the guidelines established and comprised • Laurent Leksell The composition of the(chairman) nomination committeehis – represents the and forown 2020 mainly of tax consultancy and other audit-related services. generalparties’ annualrelated meeting holdings and is also of shareholders is the set out below.of chairman The The fees to the external auditor for the 2019/20 fiscal year the Board assignment of Directors for the nomination committee is valid until the are reported in Note 9. theColleen end •ofPer – The Fourth next annual Swedish general meetingNational Pension Fund of shareholders, or, where• Tomas Flodén applicable, – AMF until and a new AMF Fundscommittee has nomination been• appointed. Filippa Gerstädt – Nordea Funds • Caroline Sjösten – Swedbank Robur Funds 4 Board of Directors Responsibilities of the Board of Directors Preparation for the 2020 AGM The work of the Board of Directors is regulated by the Swedish The nomination committee held three meetings prior to the Companies Act, the Company’s articles of association, the 2020 AGM. An evaluation of the Board of Directors’ work, comCode and the working instructions for the Company’s Board of petences, composition and independence of its members is Directors. The board is responsible for the organization of performed annually and initiated by the chairman of the Board Elekta AB and the management of the Company’s operations of Directors, partly to assess the preceding year, partly to idenin the interest of the Company and all shareholders. This tify areas for development for the Board of Directors. During includes appointing a President and CEO who is responsible for the 2019/20 fiscal year a digital evaluation was performed with managing the day-to-day operations in accordance with support from an external company. The conclusion is presented instructions from the board. The responsibilities for the board to the nomination committee by the chairman of the board. In also include: addition, individual interviews have been held with the majority of the directors. The nomination committee has, through the • Establishing overall goals and strategy audit committee’s chairman, obtained the audit committee’s • Defining guidelines to govern ethical conduct with the purrecommendation as regards election of auditor. pose of ensuring the long-term ability to create value When preparing its proposal for board composition, the • Ensuring an effective system for follow-up and control on nomination committee has applied the Code, section 4.1, as the Company’s operations and risks that the Company and diversity policy. The nomination committee’s proposals for the its operations are exposed to 2020 AGM are presented in the notice convening the 2020 • Ensuring a satisfactory process for monitoring compliance AGM. A reasoned statement explaining the nomination comwith laws and regulations and other regulatory compliance mittee’s proposal for the Board of Director’s composition is requirements applicable for the Company as well as compliposted on Elekta’s website in connection with the issuance of ance with internal company regulations the notice of the 2020 AGM. • Ensuring that external information and communications are characterized by openness, and that they are accurate, reliable and relevant 3 2 External auditor Appointment of the Board of Directors The Board of Directors of Elekta AB is elected by the AGM for a period lasting until the end of the next AGM. External auditor and auditor in charge According to the articles of association of Elekta AB, the The external auditor of Elekta AB is appointed by the AGM for a board is to have between three and ten members with no period lasting until the end of the next AGM. The AGM 2019 more than five deputy members. There are no other rules in elected Ernst & Young AB (EY) as external auditor with Rickard the articles of association concerning the appointment or Andersson as auditor in charge. removal of members of the board. ELEKTA ANNUAL REPORT 2019/20 67 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE REPORT Composition and independence of the • Approve investments and similar decisions where the Board of Directors amount of the transaction exceeds SEK 5 million if such a The Board of Directors comprises eight members which are transaction falls outside the approved investment budget presented on page 76. There are neither deputy board mem• Decide on acquisition or sale of real property or shares, or bers nor employee representatives on the board. The general acquisition or sale of the assets of, or a major part of the counsel serves as secretary for the board. assets of, another company According to the Code, the majority of the directors • Decide on the establishment and liquidation of subsidiaries appointed by the general meeting of shareholders shall be • Adopt guidelines for remuneration of senior executives to independent of the Company and the executive managebe approved by the AGM ment. In addition, at least two of the directors, who are inde• Decide on terms of employment for the President and CEO pendent of the Company and the executive management, according to guidelines for remuneration of senior execushall also be independent of major shareholders. The compotives approved by the AGM sition of the board meets the independence requirements as • Adopt the annual report, year-end report and interim five of the eight members of the board have been deemed reports independent in relation to the Company, the executive management and major shareholders. These five members are: Within the board, there is no special distribution of responsibiliJohan Malmquist, Wolfgang Reim, Jan Secher, Birgitta ties among the members of the board in addition to the duties Stymne Göransson and Cecilia Wikström. that the board has delegated to the compensation and sustainThe independence of each board member is shown on page ability committee and to the audit committee, respectively. 76. Remuneration to the Board of Directors is set out in Note 7 During the fiscal year 2019/20, the board held thirteen minand on page 76. uted meetings. These meetings are normally held at Elekta’s head office in Stockholm, but are at times held at other locaThe work of the Board of Directors tions where Elekta has offices or other facilities. RepresentaThe working instructions for the Board of Directors establish tives from the executive management and other senior manthat the board is to: agers regularly attend board meetings to report on matters • Hold at least seven ordinary meetings per year within their respective area of responsibility. For ordinary • Adopt finance and foreign exchange policies board meetings, an agenda with decision supporting material • Adopt a code of conduct is available ahead of the meetings. The board members’ • Approve a long-term plan and budget, including an attendance at board meetings is shown on page 76. ­investment budget THE WORK OF THE BOARD OF DIRECTORS INCLUDING SOME IMPORTANT AGENDA ITEMS IN 2019/20 2019 MAY JUNE JULY AUGUST SEPTEMBER OCTOBER Board meeting Board meeting Two board meetings Board meeting • Report from the audit committee • Adoption of annual report • Inaugural board meeting • Meeting held at the offices • Meeting with auditors and review of (including all reports • Adoption of working in Crawley external audit report for the full year included therein) instructions for audit com• Review of strategy plan • Review and approval of budget fiscal • Adoption of notice and mittee and code of conduct • Adoption of working year 2019/20 incl. financial targets  final proposals to the • Adoption of interim report instructions for the com• Adoption of year-end report Q4 2018/19 AGM Q1 2019/20 pensation and sustainability • Adoption of updated prospectus for • Report from the audit comcommittee, CEO and MTN-program mittee and the compensathe Board of Directors • Approval of establishment of branch tion and sustainability in Romania committee EXAMPLE OF THE BOARD’S FOCUS AREAS 1 COVID-19 During the spring there were several extra board meetings due to the pandemic’s impact on Elekta and 2 MERGERS & ACQUISITIONS In addition to Elekta’s own R&D pipeline, the Board of Directors is regularly reviewing potenits markets. Focus was on how to secure Elekta’s resiltial merger & acquisitions. During the year, the ience and agility in these challenging times. The Board Board of Directors focused on specialized softof Directors was committed to secure the safety of ware companies to gain complementary techElekta’s employees and support the continuity of our nologies adding value to our software and solucustomers’ care of their patients. The strengthening of tions portfolio. the financial position and increase of available liquidity was also high on the agenda. 68 ELEKTA ANNUAL REPORT 2019/20 and Global Sustainability Manager attend the committee’s BOARD COMMITTEES meetings. The Vice President of Compensation & Benefits serves as secretary for the committee. To improve the efficiency of the board work, the Board of Directors has appointed a compensation and sustainability The compensation and sustainability committee committee and an audit committee. The committees work in • Laurent Leksell (chairman) accordance with directives adopted by the Board of Directors • Caroline Leksell Cooke and prepare recommendations and proposals for the board. • Wolfgang Reim • Cecilia Wikström 4.1 Compensation and sustainability committee The committee and its responsibilities The compensation and sustainability committee shall prepare the Board of Director’s motions on issues relating to remuneraWork during the year tion principles, remuneration and other terms and conditions of During the fiscal year 2019/20, the compensation and sustainemployment for the executive management. In relation to susability committee held four minuted meetings. At these meettainability, the committee shall, inter alia, monitor the meaings, the committee has, inter alia, reviewed the remuneration sures to strengthen corporate culture with respect to corporate of the executive management, prepared a proposal for a new social responsibility in the light of the Company’s code of conlong-term incentive program for 2020/21 for executive manageduct as well as advise the President and CEO on proposals for ment and other key individuals as well as prepared the board’s targets and vision for sustainability. recommendations regarding guidelines for remuneration of senior executives for the next AGM. In addition, the work has Composition included conducting a succession planning and reviewing manThe compensation and sustainability committee consists of agement succession plans for senior management levels and four members appointed by the board, at the first board other Group-critical positions. The committee has further, in meeting following the election of the board by the AGM, for a line with instructions from the Board of Directors, worked with term of one year. In addition to the committee members, the the Company’s sustainability matters, with a special focus on President and CEO, the Executive Vice President Human human rights, corporate philanthropy and environment. Resources as well as Chief Compliance and Integrity Officer The members’ attendance at committee meetings and independence are shown on page 76. NOVEMBER DECEMBER 2020 JANUARY FEBRUARY MARCH APRIL Two board meetings Board meeting Two board meetings Board meeting Two board • Adoption of interim report • Review of on-going • Adoption of interim • Review of impact of ­meetings Q2 2019/20 M&A-projects  report Q3 2019/20 Covid-19 • Adoption of commu• Report from the audit • Report from the audit nication to the mar­committee and the comcommittee and the ket about Covid-19 pensation and sustainability compensation and susimpact committee tainability committee • Review of M&A and • Approval of establishment • Approval of issue of financing projects of legal entity in Indonesia bonds under existing • Update of investment MTN-program ­policy • Review of software strategy • Review of the Japan and South America markets 3 R&D FOCUS Elekta’s R&D and innovation road map is of highest priority and is reviewed 4 STRENGTHENED ORGANIZATION AND PROGRAMS Elekta has reorganized and implemented a new matrix structure along business and geographic areas. This has increased and monitored closely by the Board of clarity within the organization, division of roles and responsiDirectors. During the year, the R&D bilities, as well as strengthened customer focus. The Board of portfolio grew considerbly with a conDirectors has also spent considerable time with Elekta’s leadsiderate emphasis on our software and ership development and succession planning as well as informatics portfolio including AI and Elekta’s sustainability program. machine learning solutions. ELEKTA ANNUAL REPORT 2019/20 69 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE REPORT 4.2 Audit committee adopted by the board and other instructions from the board. The audit committee and its responsibilities The President and CEO also represents the Group in various The board shall appoint an audit committee with the respons­ contexts, leads the work of the executive management and ibility to monitor the Company’s financial reporting and promakes decisions in consultation with the members of the vide recommendations and proposals to ensure the reliability executive management. of the reporting. The committee shall, with regard to the financial reporting, monitor the effectiveness of the company’s Appointment of the President and CEO internal control, internal auditor and risk management. The board appoints Elekta AB’s President and CEO. Included in the responsibilities of the committee is also to be Gustaf Salford is as of June 2, 2020, acting President and continuously informed about the audit of the annual report CEO of Elekta AB. He replaced Richard Hausmann, who had and consolidated financial statements. In addition, the combeen President and CEO of Elekta AB since 2016, including the mittee shall inform the Board of Directors about the result of fiscal year 2019/20. More information about Gustaf Salford the audit and how the audit contributed to the reliability of is provided in the presentation of the current executive manthe reporting as well as the role of the committee during the agement on page 78. audit. The audit committee also examines and monitors the Remuneration to the President and CEO is described in Note impartiality and independence of the auditor. Furthermore, 7. The guidelines, proposed by the Board of Directors for the committee provides proposals to the Company’s nominaapproval by the 2020 AGM, for remuneration to executive tion committee concerning the appointment of auditor for management are described on page 90. the following mandate period. Composition The members of the audit committee cannot be employed by 6 Executive management the Company and at least one shall have accounting or audit competency. Elekta’s audit committee has four members who were appointed by the board at the first board meeting followAppointment and responsibility ing the election of the board by the AGM, for a term of one year. The President and CEO appoints the members of the execuIn addition to the committee members, the President and tive management following approval by the Board of DirecCEO, the CFO and the Chief Audit Executive also attend the tors. The President and CEO is responsible for and leads the committee’s meetings as well as the external auditor, if work and meetings of the executive management. The execuneeded. The associate general counsel serves as secretary for tive management supports the President and CEO in its work the committee. and makes joint decisions following consultation with various parts of the Group. The audit committee Composition • Birgitta Stymne Göransson (chairman) A presentation of Elekta’s current executive management is • Johan Malmquist provided on page 78. As of April 30, 2020, Elekta’s executive • Caroline Leksell Cooke management comprised the President and CEO, the Chief • Jan Secher Financial Officer, the Chief Operating Officer, four solutions presidents, three region presidents as well as the heads of Marketing and Sales, Global Services, HR, Legal and Compliance. Remuneration to the executive management is described in Work during the year Note 7. The guidelines, proposed by the Board of Directors for During the fiscal year 2019/20, the audit committee held five approval by the 2020 AGM, for remuneration to executive manminuted meetings. During such meetings, the committee has agement are described on page 78. reviewed the year-end report and annual report for the fiscal year 2018/19 as well as interim reports for 2019/20. Further, Work during the year part of the work has been to monitor the performance of the The executive management meets on a regular basis either by global internal control framework, approve the internal audit telephone or in person in conjunction with visits to the plan as well as review and follow-up of internal audit reports. Group’s various offices and facilities. Another task, amongst others, that has been dealt with is to The most important agenda items at the meetings during review the external audit plan and external audit reports. At the fiscal year were strategic and operational issues such as every meeting, in-depth reviews are carried out on the finanproduct development, acquisitions/divestments, investments, cial management of selected business areas. market development, organization, long-term plans and budThe members’ participation at committee meetings is get, and monthly and quarterly business and financial reviews. shown on page 76. 7 Compliance 5 President and CEO Responsibility Responsibility The compliance function’s responsibilities are to review and The President and CEO is responsible for the day-to-day manevaluate compliance issues within the organization to ensure agement of the Company in accordance with applicable laws that management and employees of the Group are in compliand regulations as well as internal steering documents. These ance with the rules and ethical regulations in the most signifiinclude the working instructions for the Chief Executive Officer cant risk areas such as anti-corruption, export control and 70 ELEKTA ANNUAL REPORT 2019/20 competition law. The compliance function also monitors the implementation of a program to ensure compliant personal 8 Regulatory affairs and quality data processing within the Group. In addition, Compliance is  responsible for the overall strategy and coordination of the areas of sustainability. Responsibility Elekta’s Chief Compliance and Integrity Officer presents on The regulatory affairs and quality function’s responsibilities a quarterly basis the progress of the risk-based compliance include supporting management to comply with regulatory program at each meeting of the audit committee and reports requirements for products, quality systems and market entry. on any incidents and the status of on-going investigations. A Interaction with, and to provide transparency to, external written compliance report is submitted at every meeting. ­regulatory bodies is another key responsibility. The function is The function is headed by the Elekta Group’s Chief Compliance furthermore responsible for the quality system’s infrastructure and Integrity Officer who reports to the President and CEO. and compliance, product clearances and approvals as well as post market vigilance and recall reporting. Work during the year The heads of the function, Senior Vice President Regulatory One of the focus areas has during the year been to keep doing Affairs & Quality and Vice President Regulatory Affairs & assessments of the risk for corrpution in high risk markets. Quality, both report to the General Counsel and Executive Elekta’s program to prevent corruption has been strengthened Vice President. as a result of such risk assessment and the control measures that have been identified will be introduced for all markets Work during the year with such risks. The compliance function has further during The most important tasks during the fiscal year have, the year introduced a training program called “Compliance amongst others, encompassed to ensure product approval Days”. The purpose of the program is to train every employee for regulatory market entry as well as to manage inspections of the Group on high risk areas during a two-days workshop from different authorities and organizations to ensure continwith interactive sessions. ued certification. In addition, the work of the function has The work relating to implement a program and procedures included to manage the implementation of the new Medical for processing of personal data has been continued according Device Regulation in Europe (MDR). to plan. Roles and responsibilities for such processing within Elekta have been further clarified. Information about the work relating to monitoring the goals within business ethics is provided on page 44. ELEKTA ANNUAL REPORT 2019/20 71 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE REPORT Employees are the owners of all risks related to their business 9 Internal audit operations and are expected to manage these by maintaining good internal control and follow risk and control procedures. Every employee is expected to comply with internal policies, Responsibility procedures and applicable laws and regulations. Internal audit is an independent function that conducts indeThe next stage of control environment lays within the support pendent and objective assurance, review and consulting functions such as finance, IT, HR, compliance, regulatory activities. The scope of the internal audit function encomaffairs and quality and legal that supports and monitors the passes the examination and evaluation of the adequacy and first level of controls. effectiveness of Elekta’s governance, process steering, risk The final stage of control environment is the internal audit management and internal control processes, as well as the function that provides independent and objective audits, quality of performance in carrying out assigned responsibiliassurance and advisory support to the management on govties to achieve the Group’s objectives as part of the assurance ernance, preparation of decisions, risk management and activity. The work also encompasses consulting internal control. activities and advisory support in the same areas. The internal The process for risk management and internal control audit function works in accordance with the guidelines for the applies for the entire Group, including business lines, regions, internal audit function adopted by the board. functions, management, coworkers, processes and technolThe internal audit function is appointed by, and reports ogy. The Elekta risk work is focused on identifying and manto, the audit committee and the Board of Directors. The Chief aging strategic risks, operational risks, legal and regulatory Audit Executive, who functionally reports to the audit comrisks, external risks and marketand financial risks. Risk mittee and administratively to the Chief Financial Officer, assessments are being completed and updated continuously supervises the internal audit function. in order to identify risks that can impact the achievement of strategy goals, legal compliance and regulations and financial Work during the year reporting. The work of the internal audit function has included, based on The Board of Directors also continuously manage decisions an established and by the audit committee approved internal that include risk management, for example, within the Elekta audit plan, audits of subsidiaries as well as quality reviews of strategy and management processes and business manageprocesses encompassed by the global internal control proment. Find out more about risk management in the board’s gram. Furthermore, statistical follow-up reporting of the report on risk management and internal control over financial internal control program to executive management, the audit reporting on page 73. A description of how other risks are committee and the Board of Directors has been carried out being managed can be found in the risks and risk manageas well as consulting in connection with the update of the ment section on page 30. internal control program. The internal audit function has during the year coordinated the external audit as well as managed the audit committee meetings. RISK MANAGEMENT AND INTERNAL CONTROL Elekta´s process for internal control INTERNAL GOVERNANCE AND CONTROL ENVIRONMENT Risk management, governance and internal control are key components of Elekta’s strategy and management processes. OBJECTIVES Elekta’s Board of Directors assumes the overall responsibility MONITORING for establishing an efficient control of risk management, governance and internal control. The responsibility for maintaining the control systems is delegated to the president and CEO, who is assisted by the executive management, other INFORMATION AND operational managers and coworkers. Functions responsible COMMUNICATION for risk management, governance and internal control continuously report the current status directly to the Board of Directors RISK and/or the audit committee. Elekta’s personnel will represent the first level of control environment in their day to day work and in their management CONTROL teams. To facilitate the work there are policies, guidelines and boundaries set by the executive management on behalf of the Board of Directors. Boundaries should ensure that no ­individual employee accepts a disproportionate portion of risk or to little risk which may result in missed opportunities and ultimately Elekta not achieving the strategic goals. All employees have the obligation to obtain an appropriate level of understanding within their roles and responsibilities and carry out their responsibilities correctly and completely. 72 ELEKTA ANNUAL REPORT 2019/20 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE REPORT / INTERNAL CONTROL Report on risk management and internal control over financial reporting The Board of Directors’ report on risk management and interelements of the control environment for financial reporting nal control over financial reporting has been prepared in such as the communication policy and processes and work accordance with the annual accounts act and the Swedish instructions to be found in group-wide steering documents corporate governance code, and constitutes an integral part and in the Elekta business management system. of the corporate governance report. The external financial Risk assessment is carried out continuously throughout the reporting has been prepared in accordance with laws and year in order to identify risks that can affect the possibility to regulations and applicable accounting standards, namely the reach targets set in relation to the strategy, the business, International Financial Reporting Standards (IFRS), and other reporting and compliance. requirements on listed companies, such as the NASDAQ Stockholm Rule Book for Issuers. Elekta’s work on risk manRisk assessment agement and internal control over financial reporting is based Risk assessment includes identifying any risk that the qualitaon the 2013 updated internal control – integrated framework tive characteristics of useful financial information, according (the “framework”), established by the Committee of Sponsoring to IFRS, may not be fulfilled or the financial reporting asserOrganizations of the Treadway Commission (COSO). The COSO tions may not be supported. Risk assessment criteria include framework is based on 17 fundamental principles linked to five occurrence, completeness, accuracy, cut-off, classification, components: control environment, risk assessment, control existence, rights and obligations, and valuation for profit and activities, monitoring, and information and communication. loss and balance sheet items in the financial reporting as applicable, but also information processing relating to input, Objective processing and recording of data. A risk assessment regarding The Elekta Group is governed and controlled based on the internal control over financial reporting is performed once a ­distribution of rights and responsibilities, including decision-­ year and covers profit and loss and balance sheet items in the making, among different corporate bodies according to laws financial reporting and related areas and processes. The work and regulations as well as internal steering documents. A is documented in a risk map and included in risk and control structure is provided through which Elekta’s objectives and matrices (RACMs) per area and process. the means of attaining these objectives and monitoring ­performance are set. The objectives reflect choices made Control activities on how the Group seeks to create, preserve and realize value Control activities mitigate the risks identified to achieve set for its stakeholders. Governance is twofold; it concerns both objectives through adherence to risk tolerance levels in terms effectiveness and accountability. Effectiveness is measured by of globally defined minimum internal control requirements performance, and accountability includes all issues surrounding over financial reporting. The control activities are documented disclosure and transparency. in RACMs per area, process and risk. Objective setting is a prerequisite necessary to internal control Control activities are aimed at preventing errors and irreguand a key part of the Elekta strategy and management prolarities from occurring and/or detecting errors and irregularities cesses. Therefore, Elekta’s corporate governance encompasses that may have occurred. Control activities can be manual or both the strategy and management processes, outlining the automated, such as authorizations and approvals, verifications, establishment of both long-term objectives and strategies with reconciliations, and business performance reviews, or a comat least a three-year perspective and short-term objectives and bination of the two. plans with a one-year perspective, and the risk management Control activities comprise the following areas and processes: and internal control process. • Entity-level controls – over the control environment • General IT controls – over IT system components, processes Control environment and data for a given IT environment including logical access, Important elements of the control environment applicable for program change management, back-up and recovery Elekta’s financial reporting are the financial guide, including • Process controls – over processes such as order recognition, the accounting policy, reporting instructions, authorization order to cash, revenue recognition, purchase to pay, invenpolicy and finance policy. In addition, there are other important tory, payroll and financial statement close. ELEKTA ANNUAL REPORT 2019/20 73 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE REPORT / INTERNAL CONTROL The globally defined minimum internal control requirements Information and communication over financial reporting comprise entity level controls that are Information and communication regarding risk management regulated through Elekta’s steering documents at Group-wide and internal control over financial reporting relates to both level, the business management system and internal control internal and external information and communication. frameworks of standard controls that include general IT conInternal information about important internal steering trols and uniform process controls for all Elekta companies ­documents for risk management and internal control over and locally defined controls where necessary. The controls financial reporting, including RACMs, as well as the communiincluded in the internal control framework are documented in cation policy and processes, work instructions and other releRACMs as standard models for all entities and then specifically vant information in the Elekta business management system, for each individual entity. All controls in the internal control are channeled down the organization and communicated to framework are based on risk assessments of financial flows relevant personnel on the Group’s intranet. Internal informathat impact the financial reporting in general and more spetion regarding the status of the effective design and operatcifically for the individual entities. ing effectiveness of risk management and internal control over financial reporting are channeled up the organization, Monitoring based on the result of the monitoring, in order for manageMonitoring of internal control over financial reporting is carment at different levels to be able to take corrective actions ried out through ongoing evaluations, separate evaluations, as necessary. The President and CEO and the Chief Audit or some combination of the two, to ascertain whether the Executive in turn inform the audit committee and the board, five components of risk management and internal control are respectively, of the results of the monitoring in order for them present and functioning; control environment, risk assessto be able to fulfill their oversight responsibility. This commument, control activities, monitoring as well as information nication normally takes place at the ordinary audit committee and communication. meetings and board meetings, respectively. Ongoing evaluations are routine operations, built into proElekta provides the financial markets and other stakeholdcesses. Monitoring takes place on a real-time basis by operaers with continuous external information and communication tional managers and personnel and periodically by manageregarding the Group’s and the Company’s financial performent at different levels of the Group, and the audit mance and position in accordance with the communication committee and the board, and includes for example monitorpolicy. External information and communication regarding ing of the following: financial reporting is provided in the form of: • Business and financial performance • Interim reports, year-end reports and annual reports • Order bookings and revenue recognition • Press releases on news and events that may significantly • Compliance reports from the compliance function affect the Group’s valuation and future prospects • Internal audit reports from the QA and RA functions related • Presentations and telephone conferences for financial anato, for example, the quality system and regulatory compliance lysts, investors and media representatives on a regular basis • Internal audit planning • Capital market days arranged to inform the capital market • Internal audit reports from the internal audit function about strategic changes or in depth information when needed • External audit reports from the external auditor See information, including reports, press releases and presSpecial evaluations may be performed through: entations, on the Elekta website: www.elekta.com. Elekta • Periodic reviews of whether risk management and internal observes a silent period prior to each interim and year-end control are operating as intended by financial managers report. and general management at local, regional, business area and Group level as applicable • Internal control compliance confirmation questionnaire, a tool for local management to report on the status of effective design and operating effectiveness of the globally defined minimum internal control requirements over financial reporting documented in RACMs • Internal audit according to the internal audit plan Instructions and budget approvals of internal control for financial reporting are conducted by the audit committee on behalf of the Board of Directors and require supporting documentation in the form of presentation of status, progress and solutions, as well as supporting appendices such as internal audit reports and internal control reports. Status, progress and solutions for internal control over financial reporting are discussed at the audit committee meeting and instructions are documented and, where approvals are required, approvals are performed and documented accordingly. The audit committee subsequently briefs the board of directors at the next board meeting and provides supporting documentation for discussion and approval. 74 ELEKTA ANNUAL REPORT 2019/20 Activities in the fiscal year Activities in the fiscal year 2019/20 2020/21 During the fiscal year 2019/20, the performed activities During the fiscal year 2020/21, focus will continue to be have primarily focused on review of timeliness and qualon reviews of timeliness and quality of internal control ity of internal control performance, improvement of performance and also increase efficiency and centralimanagement reporting regarding adherence to the zation of control performance. Furthermore, on-going internal control framework as well as ongoing internal implementation of internal control framework in new control improvements. In addition, the implementation entities will be continued and any new entities will be of the internal control framework in some small sized included continuously. Also, additional risk-based group companies has continued as planned and the reviews on the quality of financial reporting, underlying implementation in the companies that have been processes and control points in smaller and/or new entiincluded in the Group has been initiated and is currently ties will be performed. being implemented. Annual update of the internal control framework has been performed according to plan as well as annual sign-off by management. Information relating to the results of the independent reviews were addressed at the meetings of the audit committee and subsequently followed up by the board. ELEKTA ANNUAL REPORT 2019/20 75 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE REPORT / BOARD OF DIRECTORS Laurent Leksell Caroline Leksell Johan Malmquist Tomas Puusepp Cooke First elected: 1972 2017 2015 2013 Board chairman Member of the board Member of the board Member of the board Chairman of the comMember of the audit Member of the audit pensation and sustain­committee ­committee ability ­committee Member of the compensation and s­ ustainability committee 1) Attendance: 13/13 4/4 13/13 5/5 2/4 13/13 5/5 13/13 Total fees (SEK): 1,280,000 115,000 550,000 150,000 550,000 150,000 550,000 80,000 Year of birth: 1952 1981 1961 1955 Education: MBA and PhD from StockBSc Degree Stockholm UniBSc Degree Stockholm Electrical Engineer, studies in holm School of Economics, versity, studied marketing School of Economics, Physics at the Royal Institute Sweden at Wharton School at the ­Sweden of Technology in Stockholm University of Pennsylvania and at the University of Stockand at Columbia Business holm and Management (IEP) School at IMD in Lausanne Independence: Independent of the ComIndependent of the ComIndependent of the ComNot independent of the Company and the executive pany and the executive pany and the executive pany and the executive manmanagement, not indepenmanagent, not indepenmanagement and indeagement, independent of the dent of the major sharedent of the major sharependent of the major major shareholders holders holders shareholders Other board Board Board chairman: Bonit Board chairman: Getinge Board member: The Swedish ­assignments: chairman: Leksell Social Invest S.A./N.V Board AB and Arjo AB American Chamber of ComVentures and Stockholm member: Leksell Social Board member: Mölnlycke merce in New York, Permobil School of Economics Ventures` investment Health Care AB, DunkerAB and Sectra AB (publ). Board member: Internacomittee stiftelserna, Chalmers tional Chamber of ComUniversity of Technology merce (ICC) Foundation, Trelleborg AB and Stena Adactum AB Holdings in 14,980 769 A-shares 182,308 B-shares 20,000 B-shares 600,000 B-shares Elekta AB: 8,056,624 B-shares (own and closely related parties as per April 30, 2020) Principal work Founder of Elekta and Extensive experience in the Extensive experience from Various positions at the ­experience Executive Director from areas of digital strategy, the medical technology Research Institute for Nuclear and other 2005 to 2013. Former Prescommunication and techindustry, among others as Physics, Scanditronix and Erics­information: ident and CEO of Elekta nology and is currently president and CEO for son before being employed by during the years from 1972 responsible for major interGetinge AB from 1997 to Elekta in 1988. Since then, he to 2005. Among others, national business in the role 2015. Before that various has held various management Assistant Professor and as industry manager at positions within the Getinge positions within the Company, Faculty member of StockGoogle group and Electrolux Group including head of Elekta´s neuholm School of Economics, rosurgery operations, President IFL and Insead Fontainof Elekta´s subsidiary in North bleau, and Visiting Scholar America, global head of att Harvard Business Elekta´s sales, marketing and School service operations, and President and CEO of Elekta during fiscal years 2005/06 to 2013/14, and during 2015/16 1) E  lected as new member of the compensation and sustainability committee in connection with the AGM 2019 and has thereafter participated in 2 out of 2 committee meetings. 76 ELEKTA ANNUAL REPORT 2019/20 Wolfgang Reim Jan Secher Birgitta Stymne Cecilia Wikström Göransson 2011 2010 2005 2018 Member of the board Member of the board Member of the board Member of the board Member of the compensaMember of the audit Chairman of the audit Member of the compensation and sustainability ­committe committe tion and ­sustainability com­committee mittee 12/13 4/4 12/13 4/5 13/13 5/5 13/13 4/4 550,000 80,000 550,000 150,000 550,000 240,000 550,000 80,000 1956 1957 1957 1965 Master of Sciences and DocMaster of Science in Industrial MBA from Harvard Business Bachelor in theology from tor of Phsyics from the FedEngineering and Management School and Master of Science Uppsala University eral Institute of Technolgy ETH from Linköping University, in Chemical Engineering and in Zurich ­Sweden Biotechnology from the Royal Institute of Technology in Stockholm, Sweden Independent of the Company Independent of the Company Independent of the Company Independent of the Company and the executive manageand de executive management en the executive managaand the executive management and independent of the and independent of the major ment and independent of ment and independent of the major shareholders shareholders the major shareholders the major shareholders Board chairman: Ondal MediBoard chairman: Peak ManageBoard chairman: MAG, InterBoard chairman: EIPA (the cal Systems GmBH ment AG active AB and BCB Medical OY European Institute of Public Board member: GN Store, Board Member: IKEM (InnovaBoard member: Pandora AS, Administration in Maastricht Nord A/S, LAP GmBH and tion and Chemical Industries in Enea AB and Leo Pharma Board member: Beijer Alma AB Audeering GmbH Sweden) from May 2016 and (publ) and Örebro University The European Chemical Industry Council from October 2014 17,500 B-shares 28,800 B-shares 6,100 B-shares 1,100 B-shares CEO of Amann Girrbach AG President and CEO of Perstorp President and CEO of Memira Senior Advisor Prime Weber since 2020. Independent conHolding AB from September Group 2010 to 2013. CEO of Shandwick. Member of the sultant focusing on the medi2013. Previously President and Semantix Group 2005 to European Parliament from cal technology industry and CEO of Ferrostal AG from 2010 2009, and COO/CFO of Tele2009 to 2019 and M.P in the interim CEO at DORC BV in to 2012, operating partner of fos 2001 to 2005. Before that Swedish Parliament from 2002 2016 and Ondal Medical Systhe US private equity fund various management posito 2009, Priest within the tems in 2013. Before that, CEO Apollo in London from 2009 to tions, including McKinsey, Swedish Church during the of Dräger Medical AG from 2010, CEO of Clariant AG in Gambro and Åhléns last 26 years, among others 2000 to 2006. At Siemens Basel from 2006 to 2008 and as Cathedral Chaplain and from 1986 until 2000, as CEO CEO of SICPA in Lausanne from University Chaplain, Senior of the Ultrasound Division 2003 to 2005. Before he held Consultant at Michaël Berglund (1998–2000) and President of various leading positions in the Chefsrekrytering, Author of the Special Products Division ABB Group during the years leadership books, of which (1995–1998) from 1982 to 2002 one became the Best Leadership Book of the year 2004 ELEKTA ANNUAL REPORT 2019/20 77 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE REPORT / EXECUTIVE MANAGEMENT Gustaf Salford Johan Adebäck Paul Bergström Jonas Bolander Year of birth: 1977 Year of birth: 1964 Year of birth: 1974 Year of birth: 1966 Acting President and CEO Acting Chief Financial EVP Global Services General Counsel and EVP ­Officer (CFO) Employed since: 2009 Employed since: 2017 Employed since: 2001 Employed since: 2004 Holdings1): 2,100 B-shares Holdings1): – Holdings1): 200 B-shares Holdings1): 4,000 B-shares Education: MSc in Business Education: MSc Electrical Education: Master of Laws Administration, Stockholm Education: BSc in Business Engineering, Royal Institute from Stockholm University School of Economics Administration and of Technology, Stockholm ­Economics, Stockholm ­University Caroline Mofors Habib Nehme Ioannis Panagiotelis Verena Schiller Year of birth: 1972 Year of birth: 1964 Year of birth: 1972 Year of birth: 1980 SVP Chief Complience EVP India, Middle East Chief Marketing and Sales President Neuro Solutions and Integrity Officer and Africa Officer (SMSO) and EVP for APAC, Japan and South Employed since: 2008–2010 Employed since: 2014 Employed since: 2018 America and since 2012 Holdings1) : – Holdings1): – Employed since: 2017 Holdings1): 2,181 B-shares Education: Master of Laws Education: Master in Holdings1): – Education: Radiation and Master Degree in LitigaBiomedical Engineering, Therapist tion, Arbitration and AlterUniversity of Technology of Education: MSc in Medical native Dispute Resolution Compiègne, Electrical EngiPhysics and a PhD in Biofrom University of Paris II, neering degree, Jesuits Saint medical Physics and Bio­ Parthéon-Assas Joseph university of Beirut engineering from the Uniand a Marketing degreee, versity of A ­ berdeen, and Business School of HEC, MBA from IESE Business Paris School in ­Barcelona 78 ELEKTA ANNUAL REPORT 2019/20 Anming Gong Lionel Hadjadjeba John Lapré Renato Leite Year of birth: 1964 Year of birth: 1958 Year of birth: 1964 Year of birth: 1972 EVP, Head of Region China President MR-linac Solutions President Brachy Solutions EVP, Head of Region Europe Employed since: 2009 Employed since: 2019 Employed since: 2011 Employed since: 2018 Holdings1): – Holdings1): – Holdings1): 5,250 B-shares Holdings1): – Education: MSc Biomedical Education: Medical Doctor, Education: MSc in Human Education: MSc Biomedical Engineering, Huazhong Internal Medicine and Nutrition and Physiology Engineering, COPPE/UFRJ, ­University of Science and ­Haemato-Oncology from and PhD in Toxicology from Rio de Janeiro; BSc MechanTechnology, Wuhan University of Nancy, MBA Wageningen University ical Engineering, Federal HEC, Paris ­University of Rio de Janeiro; Advanced Business Management, Babson College, ­Massachusetts Larry Biscotti2) Year of birth: 1974 EVP, Region North and Central America Employed since: 2018 Holdings1): – Education: Bachelors of Science in Economics, Cornell University. MBA Karin Svenske Nyberg Maurits Wolleswinkel Steve Wort Global Business, Pepperdine University. Advanced Year of birth: 1966 Year of birth: 1971 Year of birth: 1963 Management, PLD, Harvard Business School. EVP Human Resources President Linac Solutions Chief Operating Officer (COO) Employed since: 2017 Employed since: 2011 Andrew Wilson2) Employed since: 1991 Holdings1): 1,200 B-shares Holdings1): 16,216 B-shares Holdings1): – Year of birth: 1970 Education: MSc Chemical Education: MSc in MechaniEngineering, Royal Institute cal Engineering from Delft Education: Senior Executive President Oncology of Techonolgy, Stockholm, University of Technology, Programme, London BusiInformatics Solutions and Behavioural Science, and MSc in General Manness School; Post Graduate Employed since: 2006 Stockholm University agement from Nyenrode Diploma in Management University Southbank University, Holdings1): – ­London Education: BSc Health Science, University of Sydney Richard Hausmann ­was President and CEO of Elekta until his resignation on June 2, 2020. 1) O  wn and closely related parties on April 30, 2020. 2) Members of Elekta´s Executive Management since July 2020. ELEKTA ANNUAL REPORT 2019/20 79 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE REPORT / AUDITOR’S REPORT Auditor’s report on the corporate governance statement To the general meeting of the shareholders in Elekta AB (publ) corporate identity number 556170-4015. Engagement and responsibility Opinions It is the Board of Directors who is responsible for the A corporate governance statement has been prepared. corporate governance statement for the year 2019-05-01– Disclosures in accordance with chapter 6 section 6 the 2020-04-30 on pages 63–79 and that it has been prepared second paragraph points 2–6 the Annual Accounts Act and in accordance with the Annual Accounts Act. chapter 7 section 31 the second paragraph the same law are consistent with the annual accounts and the consolidated The scope of the audit accounts and are in accordance with the Annual Accounts Act. Our examination has been conducted in accordance with FAR’s auditing standard RevU 16 The auditor’s examination Stockholm, July 10, 2020 of the corporate governance statement. This means that our examination of the corporate governance statement is Ernst & Young AB different and substantially less in scope than an audit conSignature on original auditors’ report in Swedish1) ducted in accordance with International Standards on Auditing and generally accepted auditing standards in Sweden. We Rickard Andersson believe that the examination has provided us with sufficient Authorized Public Accountant basis for our opinions. 1) T his is a translation of the original auditors’ report in Swedish. In the event of any differences between the translation and the original statement in Swedish, the Swedish version shall prevail. 80 ELEKTA ANNUAL REPORT 2019/20 ”Despite the strong impact from Covid-19 in the last quarter we secured a modest revenue growth for the year and increased EBITA in absolute figures.” Johan Adebäck Acting CFO FINANCIAL REPORTING ELEKTA ANNUAL REPORT 2019/20 81 Content Board of Directors’ Report 83 Note 18 Tangible fixed assets 124 Consolidated income statement 92 Note 19 Shares in subsidiaries 125 Consolidated statement of comprehensive income 92 Note 20 Shares in associates 126 Consolidated balance sheet 94 Note 21 Other financial assets 126 Changes in consolidated equity 96 Note 22 Inventories 126 Consolidated cash flow statement 98 Note 23 Accounts receivable and contract assets 126 Financial statements – Parent Company 100 Note 24 Other current receivables 127 Note 25 Cash and cash equivalents and NOTES 102 short-term investments 127 Note 1 Essential accounting principles 102 Note 26 Equity 128 Note 2 Financial risk management 104 Note 27 Interest-bearing liabilities 128 Note 3 Financial instruments 107 Note 28 Provisions 129 Note 4 Estimates and assessments 111 Note 29 Customer contract related balances and order backlog 130 Note 5 Segment reporting 112 Note 30 Accrued expenses 130 Note 6 Net sales 113 Note 31 Other current liabilities 131 Note 7 Salaries, other remuneration and social security costs 114 Note 32 Assets pledged 131 Note 8 Depreciation/amortization/write-down 117 Note 33 Contingent liabilities 131 Note 9 Remunerations to auditors 117 Note 34 Cash flow statement 131 Note 10 Expenses by nature 117 Note 35 Related party transactions 132 Note 11 Income from participations in Note 36 Business combinations 132 Group companies 117 Note 37 Average number of employees 133 Note 12 Net financial items 118 Note 38 Events after the reporting period 134 Note 13 Interest income, interest expense Note 39 Effects from changed accounting and similar items 118 ­standards 134 Note 14 Appropriations and untaxed reserves 118 Note 15 Taxes 118 Board of Director´s signatures 136 Note 16 Intangible assets 120 Auditor’s report 137 Note 17 Leases 122 82 ELEKTA ANNUAL REPORT 2019/20 Board of Directors’ Report The Board of Directors and the CEO of Elekta AB (publ.), Competition ­corporate identity number 556170-4015 and registered office The main competitor in the global market, with a comprein Stockholm, hereby submit the consolidated financial statehensive product range and overlap with Elekta, is Varian ments and annual report for the fiscal year 2019/20, covering ­Medical Systems. Elekta is overall one of the largest suppliers the period May 1, 2019 – April 30, 2020. Amounts in parentheses of radiation therapy solutions. For the emerging markets, indicate values for the previous fiscal year. Elekta AB (publ.) Elekta is the largest supplier. is referred to as “Elekta AB” or “the Parent Company” and From a competitive perspective there are also various comthe Elekta Group, which includes Elekta AB and its subsidiaries, panies addressing specific segments within radiation therapy. is referred to as “Elekta” or “the Group”. Companies, such as Accuray with its radiosurgery solutions, Bebig with its brachytherapy products, ViewRay with its Elekta’s operations MR-­Linac as well as Raysearch and Philips with their treatElekta is a medical technology company which aims to ment planning solutions, are part of Elekta’s competitive improve, prolong and save lives through clinical solutions landscape. Hospital Information System (HIS) companies are for treating cancer and brain disorders. The Group develops addressing the HIS market with hospital wide solutions where clinical treatment solutions for radiation therapy and radio­ cancer care is one of many different specialties. In addition, surgery, as well as workflow-enhancing software systems, there are a number of companies with products and applicaacross the spectrum of cancer care. Elekta is a leader in clinical tions supporting different aspects of cancer care processes. solutions for image guided radiation therapy and stereotactic radiosurgery, giving oncologists and neurosurgeons an Financial guidance unmatched capability to treat tumors and functional targets Elekta’s aim is to achieve sustainable profitable growth. Elekta with ultra-high precision while sparing healthy tissue. Since conducts its operations based on a strategic plan which is regu2018 Elekta also offers MR-guided radiation therapy, combinlarly reviewed and evaluated by the Board of Directors. Due to ing a traditional linear accelerator with magnetic resonance the uncertainties related to the Covid-19 pandemic Elekta has imaging. withdrawn the scenario on a mid-term basis and has not pubElekta’s treatment solutions and oncology informatics lished an outlook for the fiscal year 2020/21. Elekta will first give portfolios are designed to enhance the delivery of radiation an outlook when it is possible to further quantify the impact of therapy, radiosurgery and brachytherapy, and to drive cost Covid-19 on the radiation therapy market and the effect on efficiency in clinical workflows. Elekta’s operations are divided Elekta’s business. into three geographical regions: • North and South America Fiscal year 2019/20 • Europe, Middle East and Africa Order intake and order backlog • Asia Pacific The Covid-19 pandemic and locked down countries impacted order intake increasingly negative in the fourth quarter and Market thus had an impact on the full year order development. Gross The global market development for Elekta’s solutions is driven order intake increased by 6 percent and 1 percent based on by the need for qualitative cancer care at an affordable cost. constant exchange rates. The order backlog was SEK 34,689 Cancer incidence and prevalence are increasing. More M on April 30, 2020, compared with SEK 32,003 M on April 30, patients are surviving their cancer, which increasingly makes 2019. Orders that are canceled or not expected to materialize cancer a chronic disease with growing number of patients all as planned are removed from the order backlog. The order over the world in need of long-term care. The cost of cancer backlog was affected by translation differences of SEK 461 M care is increasing and the demands for cost efficiency in (1,763) relating to the revaluation of the order backlog at health systems and among care providers is an important closing rates. part of the market dynamics. This benefits solutions within radiation therapy which is one of the most cost-effective Geographic region: North and South America treatment solutions. In North and South America gross order intake decreased A complete radiation therapy program includes various by ­­1 percent to SEK 5,024 M (5,049), corresponding to a 6 technologies in Elekta’s product portfolio. New advancements ­percent decrease based on constant exchange rates. During in precision, accuracy and effectiveness will increase the need the year six Elekta Unity was ordered in the region and during for radiation therapy. Information management solutions the first quarter Elekta Unity was approved in Brazil. The constitute an important element in care delivery where hospiorder intake in South America had good growth with positive tal information systems and cancer informatics are other development in a number of countries. The order intake in important elements of Elekta’s solutions. There is a ­significant North America decreased compared to last year. shortage of radiation therapy capacity, which is an important Net sales was flat at SEK 4,482 M (4,501), corresponding to fact in understanding the potential and market in many a decrease of 6 percent in constant exchange rates. The negdeveloping ­economies. ative development was larger in South America than in North America compared to last year. Revenue from Solutions represented 44 percent of the region’s total net sales. The contriELEKTA ANNUAL REPORT 2019/20 83 FINANCIAL REPORTING / BOARD OF DIRECTORS’ REPORT bution margin in the region amounted to 40 percent (38), which was an improvement compared to last year. The fiscal year 2019/20 In February Larry Biscotti became the new head of the region North and Central America. • Gross order intake amounted to SEK 17,735 M For information on the market characteristics of the region (16,796), an increase of 6 percent and 1 percent North and South A ­ merica see page 27. based on constant exchange rates • Net sales increased 8 percent to SEK 14,601 M Geographic region: Europe, Middle East and Africa (13,555), or 3 percent based on constant Gross order intake in the region increased by 4 percent to SEK exchange rates 7,029 M (6,739) and by 1 percent based on constant exchange • EBITA increased by 2 percent to SEK 2,521 M rates. Middle East and Africa had a good performance (2,477), including a positive effect of SEK 66 M throughout the year, even if there was a sharp halt in the last related to the revaluation of the prior interest month due to Covid-19. Strong performers within Europe were ­­­in Palabra e.g. Russia, the UK, France and Germany. Eight Elekta Unity• The EBITA margin was 17.3 percent (18.3) systems were ordered in the region. • Operating result was SEK 1,657 M (1,696) Net sales increased by 12 percent to SEK 5,547 M (4,956), • Profit for the year amounted to SEK 1,084 M corre­sponding to an increase of 9 percent based on constant (1,198) exchange rates. The growth were strongest in Middle East and • Earnings per share amounted to SEK 2.84 (3.14) Africa but also positive in Europe. In the European market before/after dilution deliveries increased to e.g. Spain, the Netherlands and • Cash flow from operating activities amounted the UK. Revenue from Solutions represented 64 percent of the to SEK 1,014 M (1,621), r­ epresenting an operaregion’s total net sales. The contribution margin in the region tional cash conversion of 35 percent (61) amounted to 32 percent (35). • Cash flow after continuous investments For information on the market characteristics of the region amounted to SEK 252 M (962) Europe, Middle East and Africa see page 28. • The Board of Diretors proposes to the Annual General Meeting a dividend of SEK 0.90 (1.80) Geographic region: Asia Pacific per share for 2019/20 Gross order intake in the region increased by 13 percent to SEK 5,682 M (5,008), corresponding to a 8 percent increase based on constant exchange rates. During the year 10 Elekta Unity3% systems were ordered in the region. China is normally a strong growth market for Elekta, but this year Covid-19 impacted the development in China as well as in Thailand and Indonesia. Most other countries within Asia Pacific, including Japan, reported order growth compared to last year. Net sales increased by 12 percent to SEK 4,572 M (4,098), increase in net sales based on corresponding to an increase of 6 percent based on constant constant exchange rates exchange rates. The increase was mainly related to revenue growth in China, Vietnam, Taiwan, Thailand and Indonesia. Revenue from Solutions represented 72 percent of the region’s total net sales. The contribution margin in the region amounted to 31 percent (32). For information on the market characteristics of the region Asia Pacific see page 29. Gross order intake Net sales North and South America 5,024 SEK M North and South America 4,482 SEK M Europe, Middle East and Africa 7,029 SEK M Europe, Middle East and Africa 5,547 SEK M Asia Pacific, 5,682 SEK M Asia Pacific, 4,572 SEK M 84 ELEKTA ANNUAL REPORT 2019/20 Net sales Capitalization amounted to SEK 555 M (453) and amortization Covid-19 affected net sales in the fourth quarter as lock down to SEK 731 M (660). The increase in amortization is explained of countries and limited access to hospitals led to delayed by higher amortization of Elekta Unity post the CE mark. installations. The decrease in all three geographic regions in the fourth quarter affected full year revenue. Net sales for the Cash flow full year increased by 8 percent to SEK 14,601 M (13,555), Cash flow from operating activities decreased by SEK 607 M equivalent to an increase of 3 percent based on constant to SEK 1,014 M (1,621). Cash flow after continuous investments exchange rates. Solutions had a small positive development decreased to SEK 252 M (962). Operational cash conversion with a growth rate of 1 percent in constant currency. The serwas 35 percent (61). The decline in cash flow was mainly due vice revenue grew by 6 percent based on constant exchange to increased levels of net working capital. rates resulting from resilient revenues also during the panSee page 98 for more information on the consolidated cash demic and a growing installed base. Geographically all three flow. regions grew except North and South America. For net sales in the regions see each section above. Financial position Cash and cash equivalents and short-term investments Earnings amounted to SEK 6,470 M (4,119) and interest-­bearing lia­ Gross margin was 42.0 percent (41.9). Operating expenses bilities excluding lease liabilities amounted to SEK 8,102 M increased by 3 percent based on constant exchange rates, (4,558). Thus, net debt amounted to SEK 1,632 M (439). Net related to investments in the sales organization to capture debt in relation to EBITDA was 0.56 (0.17). market growth and investments in new IT platforms and Medium term notes (MTN) amounting to SEK 1,000 M was operational excellence. Selling and administrative expenses repaid according to the maturity plan on March 26, 2020. GBP amounted to SEK 2,537 M (2,335), corresponding to 17 percent 18 M of loan was repaid on March 30, 2020. Medium term (17) of net sales. notes (MTN) amounting to SEK 1,500 M was issued in March EBITA amounted to SEK 2,521 M (2,477) representing a 2020 with SEK 500 M on a 3 year tenor and SEK 1,000 M on a margin of 17.3 percent (18.3). 5 year tenor. In April 2020 a 7 year bank loan of GBP 90 M and The effect from changes in exchange rates was SEK 298 M a 2 year bank loan of SEK 300 M was finalized. (80), including hedges. Operating result was SEK 1,657 M The exchange rate effect from the translation of cash and (1,696), corresponding to an operating margin of 11 percent cash equivalents amounted to SEK –5 M (142). The translation (13). The operating result included a positive effect of difference in interest-bearing liabilities amounted to SEK 25 M SEK 66 M related to the revaluation of the prior interest in (129). Other comprehensive income was affected by exchange Palabra, reported as part of other operating income and rate differences from translation of foreign operations expenses in the fourth quarter. amounting to SEK 30 M (243). Net financial items amounted to SEK –203 M (–116). Interest See page 94 for more information on the consolidated balon lease liabilities under IFRS 16 amounted to SEK –51 M and ance sheet. was the key driver of the change. Profit before tax amounted to SEK 1,454 M (1,580) and tax amounted to SEK –370 M Employees (–382), representing a tax rate of 25 percent (24). The higher The average number of employees during the year was 4,117 tax rate was mainly driven by a geographic mix effect. Profit (3,798). The number of employees on April 30, 2020 totaled for the year amounted to 1,084 M (1,198). 4,100 (3,897). Value added per average employee amounted Earnings per share amounted to SEK 2.84 (3.14) before/after to SEK 1,391 T (1,429). dilution. Return on shareholders’ equity amounted to 14 percent (17) and return on capital employed amounted to 12 percent (15). Legal disputes humediQ Investments and depreciation As previously reported humediQ GmbH (now Livian GmbH) Continuous investments were SEK 761 M (658). Investments in has initiated an arbitration against Elekta group companies. intangible assets amounted to SEK 566 M (458) and were The oral hearing in the arbitration was held in October 2019 mainly related to ongoing R&D programs. The increase was and final submissions have been made. Elekta is of the opinrelated to a higher level of capitalized development costs due ion that all claims raised in the arbitration are unjustified and to progress in R&D projects. Investments in tangible assets baseless. Elekta expects the arbitral award in the first quarter amounted to SEK 196 M (201). Amortization of intangible of Elekta’s 2020/21 fiscal year. assets and depreciation of tangible fixed assets amounted to a total of SEK 1,275 M (943). Italian case to court As communicated in November 2015 Elekta’s subsidiary in Research and development Italy and some former employees are suspected of interfering Elekta conducts research and development (R&D) aimed at with public procurement processes. The case has been strengthening and enhancing its position as technology referred to trial, which started in February 2020. leader. R&D expenditure, before capitalization of development costs, increased by 6 percent (3) and amounted to SEK Significant events after year-end 1,473 M (1,386), equal to 10 percent (10) of net sales. Costs Richard Hausmann resigns as President and CEO related to the R&D function amounted to SEK 1,657 M (1,592). In June, 2020, Richard Hausmann, President and Chief ExecuCapitalization and amortization of development costs in tive Officer, decided to resign for personal reasons with the R&D function decreased to a net of SEK –176 M (–206). immediate effect. ELEKTA ANNUAL REPORT 2019/20 85 FINANCIAL REPORTING / BOARD OF DIRECTORS’ REPORT GenesisCare order form to allow us to anticipate anomalous activity anywhere In May, 2020, GenesisCare ordered several Elekta linear accelin our IT Systems. Not only will these investments help transform erators at a value of around USD 200 M (approx. SEK 2 000 our business, but we are also innovating with technologies that M) over the next five years, of which 11 Elekta Unity MR-Linac will give benefits to our customers and suppliers. To secure systems, as GenesisCare enters the U.S. market. all of our financial transactions, we have been working to ­digitalize end to end workflows to remove manual activities Acquisition of Kaiku Health that can create security risk or inefficiencies for our partners. In May, 2020, Elekta acquired Kaiku Health, which strengthThis has involved the deployment of Coupa, a leading ens Elekta Digital offering with personalized remote digital cloud-based procurement solution to strengthen our purhealth interventions. chase to pay processes, and new capabilities to totally digitalize our invoicing and cash collection process by using the Sustainability Tungsten network. This will allow Elekta to quickly adopt new Elekta presents sustainability information in the section Business government standards for secure transactions, but also help overiew and Indept sustainability report. Elekta AB has prepared customers in all markets with the capability to interact a statutory sustainability report in accordance with Chapter 6 quickly and securely with orders, invoices and payments. Section 11 of the Swedish Annual Accounts Act. The references Our migration efforts to Cloud infrastructure services has to the statutory sustainability report are presented on page 62. allowed Elekta IT to provide a scaleable and agile service to provide access to computing services wherever they are Quality needed. This has allowed us to decommission our data centre Elekta continue to focus on improving processes as one of in Hong Kong and make plans to relocate the main UK Data their key strategic priorities. Elekta conducts regular audits to Centre to a much smaller footprint, with all of the environensure compliance to established requirements from medical mental benefits that comes with the reduced power conregulatory authorities. Where appropriate Elekta’s developsumption from our equipment. By giving access around the ment, production or sales units are certified in accordance world to cloud-based computing, requirements as diverse as with relevant ISO 9001 and ISO 13485 standards. administering the classroom facilities in the Elekta Regional Training Centres, providing on-demand computing services to IT our software engineers, and centrally managing the big data Elekta’s IT team has continued to drive a strong digital transrequirements have been rapidly satisfied. Cloud enablement formation agenda through the continued investments in new for the Linac physics beam data modelling platforms have technologies. This has allowed us to deliver new workflows substantially reduced the time required for pre-clinical calibraacross the full range of business processes, including innovation. We have achieved operational efficiencies by extending tive new ways to bring our customers, partners and suppliers the use of cloud technologies for operational IT and digital into our digital ecosystem. This is providing value across a workspace solutions for employees, including the use of new diverse range of business activities, from the introduction of generation mobile solutions for salesand field service teams. Artificial Intelligence (AI) in our Salesforce.com solution to Our IT Cloud Service Operations group is delivering products automation and intelligence in our new cyber security platthrough advanced public cloud technologies and preparing Significant events during the year MAY 2019 – APRIL 2020 Sales and distribution Exclusive distribution agreeallows Premier’s members to take agreement with C-RAD ment with DOSisoft advantage of pre-negotiated special In July, 2019, Elekta signed a sales and In September, 2019, Elekta closed an pricing and terms for linacs, Elekta distribution agreement with C-RAD, a exclusive distribution agreement with Unity MR-linacs, oncology informatics Swedish company specializing in posiDOSIsoft for distribution of key and services. tioning and surface scanning prodpatient-specific QA solutions. DOSIucts. C-RAD’s catalyst system supsoft’s three QA products completes Updated outlook of EBITA ports Elekta’s products, in particular Elekta’s QA portfolio – a comprehenmargin Versa HD™, to meet the growing sive suite of easy-to-use, web-based In November, 2019, Elekta published demand for surface image guided tools – positioning Elekta as a sinpreliminary results for the second radiation therapy. gle-source provider of QA software. quarter and updated outlook of EBITA margin from around 19 percent, to Elekta Unity receives Sole source agreement around 18 percent, for fiscal year approval in Brazil with Premier 2019/20. In July, 2019, Elekta Unity MR-Linac In September, 2019 Elekta signed received regulatory approval from the a sole source agreement with Premier, Collaboration with ViewRay Brazilian National Health Surveillance a leading US healthcare improvement In December, 2019, Elekta announced a Agency ANVISA (Agência Nacional de company uniting approximately 4,000 collaboration with ViewRay for the Vigilância Sanitária). hospitals in the US. The agreement advancement of MR-guided radiation 86 ELEKTA ANNUAL REPORT 2019/20 these solutions for global availability. Elekta will continue its graphic mix and currency movements. During the year, Elekta commitment to the Salesforce.com platform, on which we had a gross margin of 42.0 percent (41.9). run all of the customer facing business operations. By extendAs a result of its international operations and structure, ing the use of this system, we have work underway to invest Elekta has a significant exposure to exchange rate fluctuain our Customer Portal, which allows us to connect with our tions. This pertains primarily to expenses in SEK and GBP customers for them to gain access to support services from against revenue in USD and EUR. Based on the year’s income, Elekta and manage their installed base of clinical equipment. expense and currency structure a general change of 1 perThis will soon include all of our distributor partners so that we centage point in the SEK exchange rate against other currenwill all share the same view of the installed equipment and cies would affect the Group’s net profit and shareholders’ together we can benefit from the alerting, automation, AI equity by approximately +/– SEK 24 M (21). In the short term, and reporting that is available through Elekta Intellimax®. In the effect is reduced through hedging. the first month of service, over 9,000 customers accessed the Based on the balance sheet structure at year-end a general new customer portal to collaborate with Elekta. change of 1 percentage point in the interest on borrowings and investments would affect the Group’s profit before tax by Risks approximately +/– SEK 1 M (5). Elekta’s presence in a large number of geographical markets leave it open to potential exposure to political and economic Parent Company risk on a global scale and in individual countries or regions. The Parent Company of the Group, Elekta AB, conducts no United Kingdom’s decision to leave the European Union, as an operating activities but provides group management, joint example, might lead to economic uncertainty that may group functions and financial management. Profit for the impact Elekta since an important part of the business is year amounted to SEK 137 M (624) inclusive of dividends from located in the United Kingdom. In some markets weak ecosubsidiaries of SEK 297 M (783). Total assets amounted to SEK nomic development and strained finances may mean less 14,778 M (11,507) of which shares in subsidiaries amounted to availability of financing for private customers and reduced SEK 2,251 M (2,439) and receivables from subsidiaries future healthcare spending by governments. Elekta’s operaamounted to SEK 6,639 M (5,829). Cash and cash equivalents tional, strategic, external, and financial risks are described on and short-term investments at year-end amounted to SEK page 30 together with the risk management process. Elekta’s 5,387 M (2,986). Shareholders’ equity amounted to SEK 2,346 M financial risks are described in more detail in Note 2. (2,898). Interest-bearing liabilities amounted to SEK 12,327 M (8,487), of which SEK 4,283 M (3,934) constituted liabilities to Sensitivity analysis subsidiaries. The average number of employees during the Elekta’s operation is project based with relatively big deliveries year was 41 (37). The number of employees on April 30, 2020 to customers. The lead time from delivery to installation can was 41 (38). For further information refer to the Parent Comtherefore vary from period to period. Quarterly variations of pany’s financial reports and the accompanying notes. delivery volumes occur, which has a high impact on net sales and net income each quarter. Elekta’s gross margin can also vary from period to period depending on p ­ roduct and geotherapy. The key objective of the colweighted MR images (DWI) obtained uncertainties related to the developlaboration is to advance MR-Linac with Elekta Unity. This expands the ment of the pandemic Elekta also technology and its application as the clinical utility of Elekta Unity to include withdrew the scenario for 2020/21 to radiation therapy with superior precibiologic assessment of tumor response 2022/23. sion, medical outcomes, and operaduring therapy, allowing treatment tional cost efficiency. In connection adaptation based not just on gross New Head of Region North with the collaboration, Elekta made an anatomic changes but also on early and Central America investment in ViewRay of USD 36 M for biologic changes at the cellular level. In February, 2020, Elekta appointed 11,501,597 shares corresponding to Larry Biscotti as new head of North approximately 7.6 percent of the outChanged outlook and chaland Central America. Larry, who standing common stock on a fully lenges related to Covid-19 replaced Peter Gaccione, has been diluted basis in ViewRay’s underwritten In April, 2020, Elekta changed the outwith Elekta since 2018 and has long public offering. look for the fiscal year 2019/20 as a experience within the diagnostic imagresult of the impact of the pandemic. ing and therapy business, with extenFDA clearance of diffusion­The new outlook stated a net sales sive knowledge as a product specialist, weighted images growth of around 1 percent compared direct sales, strategic sales manageIn December, 2019, Elekta received to last year based on constant curment in various leadership positions. 510(k) premarket notification from rency, and an EBITA margin between the U.S. FDA for the use of diffusion-­ 16 and 17 percent. Due to ongoing ELEKTA ANNUAL REPORT 2019/20 87 FINANCIAL REPORTING / BOARD OF DIRECTORS’ REPORT 29% Shares The total number of registered shares on April 30, 2020 was 383,568,409 divided between 14,980,769 A-shares and 368,587,640 B-shares. One series A-share entitles the holder equity/ to 10 votes and series B-shares entitle the holder to one vote for each share. All shares carry equal rights to participate in assets ratio the Company’s assets and profits. In accordance with Section 12 of the Articles of Association, series A-shares are subject to right of first refusal. All A-shares are owned by Laurent Leksell via companies, also the only shareholder representing more than 10 percent of total votes. On April 30, 2020, treasury ratio of 29 percent (32), will be marginal. Concerning the Parshares amounted to 1,485,289 (1,541,368) equivalent to 0.4 ent Company’s and the Group’s result and position in general, percent (0.4) of the total number of outstanding shares as refer to the statements of income, statements of com­ well as of share capital. Regarding treasury shares, par value prehensive income, balance sheets and statements of cash is 0.50 SEK per share and average cost is 49.70 SEK per share. flow and notes. See page 34 for more information on Elekta’s share. It is the assessment of the Board of Directors that the proposed dividend ­neither prevents the Parent Company, and other Dividend and proposal to repurchase shares companies within the Group, from fulfilling their obligations, nor For 2019/20, the Board of Directors proposes to the Annual from making the necessary investments. The proposed dividend General Meeting a dividend of SEK 0.90 (1.80) per share. can therefore be justified in respect of Chapter 17, section 3, Total proposed dividend amounts to approximately SEK 344 M paragraphs 2 and 3 of the Swedish Companies Act (the pru(688) and 32 percent (57) of the group net profit for the year. dence rule). The Board of Directors intends to propose to the 2020 Annual General Meeting a renewal of the board’s authorizaArticles of Association tion to decide on the acquisition of a maximum number of The Articles of Association state that board members are own shares so that, after the acquisition, the company holds appointed and dismissed by the Annual General Meeting. The no more than 10 percent of the total number of outstanding Articles of Association contain no specific regulations regardshares in Elekta AB. ing changes to the Articles of Association. Appropriation of profit Guidelines for remuneration to executive Amounts in SEK April 30, 2020 management – adopted by AGM 2019 The following guidelines for remuneration and other terms of Distributable shareholders’ equity of the employment for the executive management of the Group Parent Company were adopted by the Annual General Meeting 2019. Premium reserve 656,608,114 Retained earnings 1,204,483,757 Guidelines Profit for the year 137,086,587 It is of fundamental importance to Elekta and its share­holders Total 1,998,178,458 that the guidelines for remuneration and other terms of The Board of Directors and the President employment for the executives of the Group attract, motiand CEO propose: vate and retain competent employees and managers, both in to be distributed to the shareholders, the short and long-term. To achieve this goal, it is important a total dividend of SEK 0.90 per share1) 343,874,808 to ensure fairness and internal equity, while maintaining marand that the remaining amount be carried ket competitiveness in terms of the structure, scope and level forward 1,654,303,650 of executive compensation within Elekta. Employment condiTotal 1,998,178,458 tions for executive management should comprise a balanced 1) T he total amount distributed may change up until the record date mix of fixed salary, a variable salary component/annual depending on changes in the number of shares incentive, long-term incentives, pension and other benefits, as well as notice and severance payments, where applicable. The board’s statement on the proposed dividend In making this proposal for dividend, the board has taken into Total target cash compensation account the Parent Company’s dividend policy, equity/assets Total target cash compensation (fixed plus variable salary ratio as well as its general financial position, whereby the components), should be competitive in the geographic mar­Parent Company’s ability to fulfill existing and foreseeable ket where the executive is resident. The level of total target ­payment obligations in a timely manner, as well as potential compensation should be reviewed annually to ensure that the acquisitions and other investments. The Parent Company’s company is competitive for similar positions in the market to equity includes SEK 21 M pertaining to assets and liabilities be able to recruit and retain business critical competencies measured at fair value in accordance with Chapter 4 Section where needed. Market medians are established with the 14 a of the Swedish Annual Accounts Act. The equity ratio and assistance of external compensation benchmarking. Since liquidity is reassuring, under the assumption that the Parent compensation should be performance-driven, the target Company and the Group continue to be profitable. The impact annual variable salary component should account for a relaof the proposed dividend on the Group’s reported equity/assets tively high portion of the total target compensation. 88 ELEKTA ANNUAL REPORT 2019/20 Compensation components Retention measures The Group compensation system comprises various forms of In order to ensure long-term engagement and retention of compensation. This ensures well-balanced remuneration, key staff in connection with the acquisition of new business, thereby strengthening and underpinning short and long-term the divestment of operations or other transitional activities, objective setting and achievement. an additional annual incentive with a deferred payment of 12–24 months may or may not be applied. This deferred incenFixed salary tive requires continued employment until an agreed future Executive Management’s fixed salary shall be individual and date for any payment to be made and is applied only in spebased on the content and responsibility of the position, the cial and rare circumstances, which means that it is not part individual’s competence and experience in relation to the role of any ordinary executive remuneration scheme. The deferred held, as well as the geography in which the position is based. incentive should never exceed 50 percent of the contractual annual variable salary component and shall in other aspects Variable salary comply with the Group bonus plan. In addition to a fixed salary, Executive Management also has a variable salary component, the annual incentive/ bonus. Pensions The variable component is structured as a portion of the total When establishing new pension agreements, senior executives cash remuneration package and is primarily related to the who are entitled to pension benefits should only be enrolled in achievement of common Group financial performance goals. defined-contribution schemes. The standard retirement age The Key Performance Indicators (KPIs) for variable salary for Swedish citizens is 65 years while other executives follow components shall primarily be related to the outcome of spethe rules of their respective countries of residence. The main cific financial and functional objectives within the Group guideline is that the size of pension contributions be based compensation and benefit system. only on the fixed salary. Certain individual adjustments may The goals for the variable salary component are established occur based on local market practice. annually by the board to sustain the business strategy and objectives. Other KPIs may be used to drive focus on non-­ Other benefits financial objectives of particular interest. Benefits such as company cars and health, medical and sickThe size of the variable salary component depends on the ness-related insurance schemes, should be of a more limited position held and may amount to between 30 percent and 70 value compared with other items of the compensation packpercent of the fixed salary for on-target performance. Perforage and in line with the market practice for the respective mance against fixed targets and payment for results geographic market. achieved are measured quarterly or annually. If performance related financial goals within the variable Notice periods and severance agreements salary plan exceeding 100 percent of the target, there is the Periods of notice in Elekta follow local labor legislative opportunity for additional compensation for over perforrequirements in the geographies in which they are based. mance. The annual incentive entails a potential to earn a maxiSenior executives generally have notice periods of between mum of 200 percent of the target variable salary component. 6 and 12 months and, during specific circumstances, to be Accordingly, the maximum payout level for the sum of the varientitled to severance payment equal 6–12 months employable salary component is capped at a 200 percent of the origiment. In the event of a material change of control, the nal target for variable compensation. The plan also contains a ­President and CEO shall be entitled to an extra severance minimum performance level or threshold under which no varipayment equal to 18 months employment. able salary or annual incentive will be paid out at all. Severance agreements entitling executives to lump sum payments will in principle not be signed. Equity-based long-term incentive programs The board also uses long-term incentives to ensure alignment Preparation and decision process between shareholder interests and executive management, During the year, Elekta’s Executive Compensation & Cap­ senior managers and other key colleagues. On an annual ability Committee (ECCC) provided the board with recombasis, the Board of Directors evaluates whether an equimendations regarding principles for formulating the Group’s ty-based long-term incentive program should be proposed to remuneration system and remuneration of senior executives the Annual General Meeting. and senior managers. The recommendations covered formuIn order to strengthen long-term thinking in decision-­ lation of the bonus system, distribution between fixed and making and ensure achievement of long-term objectives, variable remuneration and the size of any salary increases. while also covering situations where equity-based solutions The ECCC also proposed criteria for assessing the performay be inappropriate or precluded by law, the board may mance of senior executives and senior managers. Any decialso selectively decide on other types of non-equity-based sions on remuneration for the CEO is taken by the board in i­ts long-term incentive programs. Monetary long-term incentives entirety. should only be used as remuneration in special circumstances The board has discussed the proposals from the ECCC and its and be in line with practice in each market. They must also motion to the Annual General Meeting is based on the recomrequire continued employment in the Group. mendation submitted. Elekta’s ECCC comprises the Chairman of the board and three independent Board members. The President and CEO attend the committee’s meetings. The Group Vice President Human Resources acts as the ECCC secretary. ELEKTA ANNUAL REPORT 2019/20 89 FINANCIAL REPORTING / BOARD OF DIRECTORS’ REPORT Guidelines for salary and other constitute a relatively large portion of the total remuneration. The various types of remuneration that may be paid out are described ­remuneration to executive management below. – proposal to AGM 2020 Fixed salary The Board of Directors proposes that the Annual General MeetFixed salary for executive management shall be individual and ing to be held on 26 August 2020 adopt the following guidelines based on each individual’s responsibilities and role in terms of indifor salary and other remuneration for Directors, the President vidual skills and experience in the relevant position as well as and CEO and – where appropriate – Vice President and other regional conditions. In case of a maximum variable remuneration executive management. Other executive management means result, the fixed salary may amount to between 40 and 50 per cent members of the Executive Management of Elekta AB (publ). of the total annual fixed salary and variable remuneration. The guidelines shall apply to employment agreements executed after the Annual General Meeting and any modifications to Variable remuneration existing employment agreements that are made after the In addition to fixed salary, executive management are entitled to Annual General Meeting. The guidelines do not apply to board variable remuneration, referred to as an annual bonus. The variable fees decided upon by general meetings or such issues and remuneration is structured as part of the total remuneration packtransfers covered by Chapter 16 of the Companies Act. age and shall primarily be related to results in terms of the Group’s financial targets (50–100 percent of the variable remuneration). The guidelines’ promotion of the Company ‘s business Other non-financial targets of particular interest, such as clearly strategy, long-term interests and sustainability defined individual targets with respect to specific work duties The Company’s business strategy is, in brief, as follows. Thought within the respective business area, shall also be used (0–50 percent and market leadership in Precision Radiation Medicine. Precision of the variable remuneration). Variable remuneration targets shall means our solutions hit the target precisely, sparing healthy be established annually by the Board of Directors with the aim of ­tissue and reducing negative side effects and complications for ensuring that they are in line with the Group’s business strategy better patient outcomes. Radiation stands for using our core and results targets. Targets shall be structured so as to promote competence in radiation treatment of tumor and neurological the Group’s business strategy and long-term interests, including its diseases with optimized and tailored solutions. Medicine is to sustainability, by being clearly connected to the business strategy deliver software that help to improve cancer survival rates by and promoting the long-term development of the executive manbeing efficient and supportive, assisting clinicians worldwide in agement. The size of the variable remuneration varies depending on providing the highest standard of care. For further information position and may constitute between 30 and 70 percent of fixed about Elekta’s strategy see page 11. annual salary at full achievement of targets. In order to successfully implement the Company’s business Target fulfilment is measured, and any payments made in strategy and to foster the Company’s long-term interests, respect thereof take place annually or quarterly. If the financial including its sustainability, it is of fundamental importance for targets for variable remuneration are exceeded, there is a possibilthe Company and its shareholders that, from a short-term and ity to pay additional remuneration in consideration of overperforlong-term perspective, the remuneration guidelines attract, mance. The annual bonus entails that there is potential to receive, incentivise and create favourable conditions for retaining skilled at most, 200 percent of the variable remuneration in case of over employees and managers. achievement of targets. Thus, payment of variable remuneration is The guidelines are aimed at creating increased transparency capped at 200 percent of the original target for the variable remuas regards remuneration issues and, through a carefully considneration and may entail, at most, that 140 percent of the fixed salered remuneration structure, creating incentives for executive ary can be paid out as variable remuneration. Target formulation is management to execute strategic plans and achieve the Comstructured so that no variable remuneration or bonus is received in pany’s financial targets. This is in order to support the Compathe event a minimum performance level or threshold is not ny’s business strategy as well as its long-term interests, includachieved. Upon conclusion of the annual measurement period, an ing its sustainability. To achieve this, it is important to maintain assessment shall take place as to the extent to which targets have fair and internally balanced terms which, at the same time, are been fulfilled, through an overall performance assessment. competitive on the market in terms of remuneration structure, The Compensation & Sustainability Committee is responsible for scope and level. the assessment with respect to variable salary for the President and CEO and other executive management. Insofar as relates to finanRemuneration and forms of remuneration cial targets, the assessment shall be based on audited financial Employment terms for executive management shall include a information published by the Group. The Company may, at any well-balanced combination of fixed salary, variable remuneragiven time, alter, discontinue or cancel parts of the remuneration tion, long-term incentive programs, pension benefits and other plan, or the entire plan. However, only in respect of future perforbenefits, as well as terms governing termination, where applimance at the time in question. The Company may also, after paycable. This combination of remuneration strengthens and supment of remuneration, subsequently correct the remuneration if an ports short-term and long-term targeting and target fulfilment. error can be identified in a final audit. The total compensation shall be on market terms on the geographic market where the individual resides or works. Share-related long-term incentive programs Applied remuneration levels shall be reviewed annually in The Board of Directors uses long-term incentive programs to ensure comparison with equivalent positions on the market, to ensure alignment between the interests of the shareholders and the interthat the Company is able to attract and retain skills critical for ests of executive management and other key individuals in the the business where so required. Median salaries on the market Company. The Board of Directors shall each year assess whether a are determined through external benchmarking where such is share-related long-term incentive program should be proposed to available. As far as possible, remuneration shall be based on the Annual General Meeting. More information about current share performance and thus the annual variable remuneration shall programs is available in Note 7 and on the Company’s website and, 90 ELEKTA ANNUAL REPORT 2019/20 with respect to the proposed share program, in items 15 a) and statutes and agreements applicable on each geographic mar15 b) of the material for the annual general meeting. These longket. Termination periods with respect to executive manageterm incentive programs promote the Group’s business strategy ment shall be between 6 and 12 months and, in specific cases, and long-term interests including its sustainability by strengthenexecutive management are entitled to severance compensation ing the Group’s ability to recruit and retain employees, diversifying corresponding to 6–12 months’ fixed salary. In case of certain and increasing share ownership among key individuals and ensurradical changes in the ownership structure, the President and ing a shared focus on long-term growth in value for the shareholders. CEO is entitled to receive additional severance compensation corresponding to 18 months’ fixed salary. Special remuneration Additional cash variable remuneration can be paid, with a delay in Preparation and decision-making procedure payment up to 36 months, to ensure long-term commitment and The Company’s Compensation & Sustainability Committee that key employees remain in connection with acquisitions of new shall, each year, prepare remuneration issues and submit to companies, divestments of businesses, other transitional activity or the Board of Directors recommendations for principles for other extraordinary work endeavors. Such delayed remuneration is structuring the Group’s compensation system and executive conditional on continued employment until a predetermined date management remuneration. The recommendations shall in order for any payment to take place, and is applied only in very include proposals for structuring bonus systems, the breakdown special cases, and thus is not included in any ordinary remuneration between fixed and variable remuneration as well as the size of system. The delayed remuneration may not exceed 50 percent of any salary increases. The Compensation & Sustainability Comthe contracted annual fixed remuneration per year and thus may mittee shall also propose criteria for assessment of perforamount to 150 percent of annual salary in the event of delayed mance by executive management. Decisions regarding remu­payment for 36 months. The delayed remuneration shall otherwise neration are adopted by the Board of Directors as a whole. The comply with the same principles as applicable to variable remuneraBoard of Directors shall prepare proposals for new guidelines at tion in the Group. Decisions regarding special remuneration for least every fourth year and shall present the proposals for a extraordinary endeavors shall be taken by the Board of Directors. decision by the Annual General Meeting. The Compensation & Sustainability Committee shall comprise Pensions of at least three independent directors, one of whom shall serve When new pension agreements are entered into, executive manageas chairman. The President and CEO shall attend the meetings ment who are entitled to pension shall only have defined contribuof the committee. The elected chairman of the Compensation & tion pension agreements. With respect to executive management Sustainability Committee shall convene its meetings. The memwho are Swedish citizens, retirement normally takes place at the age bers of the Compensation & Sustainability Committee are indeof 65 and, with respect to others, in accordance with each country’s pendent in relation to the Company and company managepension regulations. The general rule is that pension provisions are ment. The President and CEO, and other members of Group based only on fixed salary and take place at market levels in each management, may not be present at meetings at which remucountry; however, pension provisions shall not exceed 40 percent of neration issues are addressed and decided upon, insofar as they fixed salary. Certain individual adjustments may occur in line with are affected by the issues. In conjunction with all decisions, it is local market practice or mandatory collective agreement provisions. ensured that conflicts of interest are avoided and that any potential conflicts of interest are addressed in accordance with Other benefits the Company’s corporate governance framework, comprising of Benefits such as company car, compensation for preventive care a code of conduct, policies and guidelines. insurance, healthcare insurance and medical insurance, etc. shall constitute a smaller element of the total compensation package Derogation from the guidelines and be in accordance with what is customary on each geographic The Board of Directors may decide to derogate temporarily market. Premiums and other costs for such benefits may not, in ­from the guidelines, wholly or in part, where there are parti­ total, exceed 20 percent of fixed salary. For executive management cular reasons for doing so in an individual case and provided stationed in a country other than their country of domicile, addisuch derogation is necessary to satisfy the Company’s longtional compensation and other benefits may be paid to a term interests, including its sustainability, or to ensure the ­reasonable extent in light of the particular circumstances associCompany’s financial viability. As stated above, the duties of the ated with being stationed in a foreign country. Compensation & Sustainability Committee include preparing This comprises, for example, flight costs, housing, term fees, jourdecisions by the Board of Directors on remuneration issues, neys home, assistance with tax returns and tax equalisation. With which includes decisions regarding derogations from the guiderespect to employment conditions governed by regulations other lines. than Swedish ones, insofar as relates to other benefits, appropriate adjustments shall take place to comply with such mandatory reguDescription of significant changes to the guidelines lations or established local practice, whereupon the overarching The content of the guidelines has been reviewed and adapted purpose of these guidelines shall be satisfied as far as possible. to the legal requirements imposed by Directive (EU) 2017/828 of the European Parliament and of the Council amending Remuneration payable to Directors Directive 2007/36/EC as regards encouragement of the longDirectors elected by the general meeting shall, in specific cases, be term shareholder engagement. en­­titled to receive fees and other remuneration for work performed on behalf of the Company, alongside boardwork. Fees on market Previously decided remuneration that is not yet due for terms, which must be approved by other Directors, shall be payable payment in respect of such services. The Company has three ongoing share-related programs that have not yet fallen due for payment. These are programs Termination terms and severance compensation decided upon in 2017, 2018 and 2019. More information about Termination periods within the Company shall comply with the current share programs is available in Note 7 and on the ­Company’s website. ELEKTA ANNUAL REPORT 2019/20 91 FINANCIAL REPORTING / GROUP Consolidated income statement SEK M Note 2019/20 2018/19 Net sales 6 14,601 13,555 Cost of products sold –8,464 –7,875 Gross profit 6,138 5,680 Selling expenses –1,444 –1,296 Administrative expenses –1,093 –1,039 R&D expenses –1,657 –1,592 Other operating income and expenses 11 23 Exchange rate differences –298 –80 Operating result 5–10 1,657 1,696 Income from participations in associates 12 –4 3 Financial income 12 63 66 Financial expenses 12 –215 –186 Interest expenses lease liabilities 12 –51 – Exchange rate differences 12 4 2 Profit before tax 1,454 1,580 Income taxes 15 –370 –382 Profit for the year 1,084 1,198 Profit attributable to: Parent Company shareholders 1,084 1,198 Non-controlling interests 0 0 Earnings per share: Before dilution, SEK 2.84 3.14 After dilution, SEK 2.84 3.14 Average number of shares: Before dilution, thousands 382,062 382,027 After dilution, thousands 382,062 382,027 Consolidated statement of comprehensive income SEK M Note 2019/20 2018/19 Profit for the year 1,084 1,198 Other comprehensive income Items that will not be reclassified to the statement of income: Remeasurements of defined benefit pension plans 28 –8 –1 Net gain/(loss) on equity instruments designated at fair value 21 –104 – Tax 15 24 1 Total items that will not be reclassified to the statement of income –88 –1 Items that subsequently may be reclassified to the statement of income: Revaluation of cash flow hedges 3 37 –101 Translation differences from foreign operations 30 243 Tax 15 –7 19 Total items that subsequently may be reclassified to the statement of income 60 161 Other comprehensive income, net –27 160 Total comprehensive income 1,057 1,358 Comprehensive income attributable to: Parent Company shareholders 1,057 1,358 Non-controlling interests 0 0 92 ELEKTA ANNUAL REPORT 2019/20 Comments on the consolidated income statement Net sales –176 M (–206) relates to the R&D function. The higher amortizaNet sales increased 8 percent to SEK 14,601 M (13,555), tion compared to last year was explained by higher amortiza­corresponding to 3 percent increase based on constant tion of Elekta Unity post the CE mark. Capitalization within the exchange rates. R&D function amounted to SEK 555 M (453) and amortization to SEK 731 M (660). Net sales, Change, Operating The change in unrealized exchange rate effects from effecSEK M %1) result, SEK M tive cash flow hedges amounted to SEK 37 M (–101) and is Q1 3,228 9% 236 reported in other comprehensive income. Closing balance of Q2 3,709 7% 321 unrealized exchange rate effects from effective cash flow Q3 3,656 5% 443 hedges in shareholders’ equity was SEK –33 M (–70) exclusive of Q4 4,008 –6% 658 tax. A­ ccording to Elekta’s currency hedging policy, anticipated Full-year 2019/20 14,601 3% 1,657 sales in ­foreign currency may be hedged up to 24 months. Net financial items amounted to SEK –203 M (–116). Interest 1) Compared to last fiscal year based on constant exchange rate on lease liabilities under IFRS 16 amounted to SEK –51 M and was the key driver of the change, together with increased Earnings interest expense from new funding and negative results on Gross margin was 42.0 percent (41.9). The increase compared short-term investments in the fourth quarter. to last year was due to more software and services revenue. Income before tax amounted to SEK 1,454 M (1,580). Tax EBITA amounted to SEK 2,521 M (2,477), representing a margin expense amounted to SEK –370 M (–382) or 25 percent (24). of 17.3 percent (18.3). The effect from changes in exchange The higher tax rate was mainly driven by a geographic mix rates was approximately SEK 298 M (80) including hedges. effect. Profit after tax amounted to SEK 1,084 M (1,198). Operating result decreased by 2 percent and amounted to SEK 1,657 M (1,696). The operating result included a positive Result overview effect of SEK 66 M related to the acquisition of the remaining stake in Palabra and the revaluation of the prior interest, SEK M 2019/20 2018/19 reported as part of the other operating income and expenses. Operating margin was 11 percent (13). Operating result/EBIT 1,657 1,696 Research and development expenditures before capitalizaAmortization: tion of development costs increased by 6 percent to SEK 1,473 Capitalized development costs 746 664 M (1,386) equal to 10 percent (10) of net sales. Capitalization of Assets relating business combinations 119 117 development costs and amortization of capitalized developEBITA 2,521 2,477 ment costs amounted to net SEK –183 M (–208), of which SEK ELEKTA ANNUAL REPORT 2019/20 93 FINANCIAL REPORTING / GROUP Consolidated balance sheet SEK M Note April 30, 2020 April 30, 2019 ASSETS Non-current assets Intangible assets 16 9,469 9,301 Right-of-use assets 17 1,156 – Tangible fixed assets 18 968 957 Shares in associated companies 20 34 57 Other financial assets 3, 21 714 451 Deferred tax assets 15 504 402 Total non-current assets 12,845 11,167 Current assets Inventories 22 2,748 2,634 Accounts receivable 23 3,379 3,455 Accrued income 29 1,526 1,401 Current tax assets 15 138 158 Derivative financial instruments 3 97 72 Other current receivables 24 1,208 1,059 Short-term investments 25 62 45 Cash and cash equivalents 25 6,407 4,073 Total current assets 15,566 12,897 Total assets 28,411 24,064 EQUITY AND LIABILITIES Equity Parent Company shareholders: Share capital 26 192 192 Contributed funds 812 812 Reserves 1,278 1,217 Retained earnings 5,830 5,556 Parent Company shareholders, total 8,113 7,778 Non-controlling interests 1 1 Total equity 8,113 7,779 Non-current liabilities Long-term interest-bearing liabilities 27 7,101 3,558 Deferred tax liabilities 15 545 587 Long-term lease liabilities 27 1,043 – Long-term provisions 28 235 188 Other long-term liabilities 3 73 55 Total long-term liabilities 8,997 4,388 Current liabilities Short-term interest-bearing liabilities 27 1,001 1,000 Short-term lease liabilities 27 213 – Accounts payable 3 1,025 1,427 Advances from customers 29 4,103 4,883 Prepaid income 29 2,226 2,170 Accrued expenses 30 1,703 1,661 Current tax liabilities 15 246 166 Short-term provisions 28 179 188 Derivative financial instruments 3 105 94 Other current liabilities 501 308 Total current liabilities 11,300 11,897 Total equity and liabilities 28,411 24,064 For information about assets pledged and contingent liabilities see Note 32 and 33 respectively. 94 ELEKTA ANNUAL REPORT 2019/20 Comments on the consolidated balance sheet The Group’s consolidated balance sheet has been affected by mance conditions, payments are obtained from the issuing changes in exchange rates. The balance sheets of the foreign bank. The majority of the proceeds are normally due at shipsubsidiaries are translated at the closing rate as per the closment. As another example, the US is largely a private hospital ing date. The exchange rates used for translation as per April market with replacement investments. The operating cycle in 30, 2020 and April 30, 2019 respectively are presented in the the projects are typically shorter than Elekta’s average. In a table on page 103. typical customer relationship, Elekta receives partial payments at order receipt, delivery, installation and acceptance. Assets and capital employed Lastly, customers in Europe are typically public hospitals and The Group’s total assets increased by SEK 4,347 M to SEK contracts are awarded through public procurement 28,411 M (24,064). Fixed assets totaled SEK 10,437 M (10,258) ­processes. In such cases, terms and conditions are often of which goodwill amounted to SEK 6,311 M (5,914). Right-ofpre-defined by the customer. This means that Elekta get paid use assets amounted to SEK 1,156 M (0). late in the operating cycle and payment times are generally Current assets, excluding cash and cash equivalents and longer than normal. There are many examples of projects short-term investments, increased by SEK 318 M to SEK 9,096 where customers pay after acceptance of installation. M (8,778). Accounts receivable, accrued income and inventoAccounts receivable amounted to SEK 3,379 M (3,455) as ries increased by 2 percent (5). Inventory value in r­ elation to per April 30, showing a decrease of 2 percent in SEK. The net sales was 19 percent (19). majority of non-due accounts receivable are normally due Cash and cash equivalents and short-term investments within 90 days. increased by SEK 2,351 M to SEK 6,470 M (4,119) at year-end, In a limited number of customer projects, Elekta is providtotaling 23 percent (17) of total assets. Of total bank ing financing through extended payment terms. Such receiv­balances SEK 8 M (8) were pledged primarily for commercial ables amounted to SEK 355 M (334) as per April 30 and are guarantees. included in “Other financial assets” in the balance sheet and The Group’s capital employed increased to SEK 17,472 M specified as “Contractual receivables” in Note 21. (12,337). Customer advances represent projects for which invoiced amounts exceed revenue recognized. Advances from customers Liabilities and shareholders’ equity amounted to SEK 4,103 M (4,883) as per April 30, a decrease Interest-free liabilities and provisions increased by SEK 468 M of SEK 780 M. to SEK 12,195 M (11,727). Interest-bearing liabilities amounted to SEK 9,358 M (4,558), of which SEK 1,256 (6) pertained to Working capital lease liabilities. Net debt amounted to SEK 1,632 M (439). Total equity was SEK 8,113 M (7,779). Return on shareholders’ equity SEK M April 30, 2020 April 30, 2019 amounted to 14 percent (17) and return on c ­ apital employed Working capital assets amounted to 12 percent (15). Net debt/EBITDA ratio was Inventories 2,748 2,634 0.56 (0.17) and equity/assets ratio was 29 percent (32). Accounts receivable 3,379 3,455 Accrued income 1,526 1,401 Working capital Other operating receivables 1,202 1,059 Elekta’s operations is to a large extent project based. PaySum working capital assets 8,856 8,548 ment flows from projects generally occur in connection with order receipt, delivery and acceptance, which generates flucWorking capital liabilities tuations in working capital. Thus, movements in working capAccounts payable 1,025 1,427 ital depend on the progress of projects and the timing of cerAdvances from customers 4,103 4,883 tain events in relation to terms in the contract. Invoicing and Prepaid income 2,226 2,170 payments from the customer occur in accordance with the Accrued expenses 1,703 1,661 terms of the contract while revenue is recognized based on Short-term provisions 179 188 accounting principles. Th­erefore cash flow from projects does Other current liabilities 501 308 not always coincide with the recognition of revenue and may Sum working capital liabilities 9,735 10,638 result in either an asset (accrued income) or a liability Net working capital –879 –2,089 (advances from customers). Percent of net sales –6% –15% Elekta’s payment terms varies significantly between regions and specific customers. For example, in China, the majority of Elekta’s customers are in the public sector. Financing and Net working capital amounted to SEK –879 M (–2,089) at payments are normally structured by a bank through a letter year-end, corresponding to –6 percent (–15) of net sales. of credit arrangement. When Elekta has met certain perforELEKTA ANNUAL REPORT 2019/20 95 FINANCIAL REPORTING / GROUP Changes in consolidated equity Other Elekta NonShare ­contributed Tran­slation Hedge Retained AB:s owncontrolling Total SEK M Note capital capital reserve reserve earnings ers, total interests equity Opening balance May 1, 2018 192 812 1,034 23 4,926 6,987 0 6,987 Opening balance adjustment due to IFRS 9 – – – – –39 –39 – –39 Profit for the year – – – – 1,198 1,198 0 1,198 Remeasurements of defined benefit pensions plans – – – – –1 –1 – –1 Cash flow hedges – – – –101 1) – –101 – –101 Translation differences from foreign operations – – 243 – – 243 0 243 Tax relating to components of other comprehensive income 15 – – – 19 0 19 – 19 Other comprehensive income – – 243 –82 –1 160 0 160 Total comprehensive income – – 243 –82 1,197 1,358 0 1,358 Dividend – – – – –535 –535 0 –535 Incentive programs – – – – 6 6 – 6 Transactions with the shareholders, total – – – – –529 –529 0 –529 Closing balance April 30, 2019 192 812 1,277 –59 5,556 7,778 1 7,779 Opening balance May 1, 2019 192 812 1,277 –59 5,556 7,778 1 7,779 Opening balance adjustment due to IFRS 16 – – – – –31 –31 – –31 Profit for the year – – – – 1,084 1,084 – 1,084 Remeasurements of defined benefit pensions plans – – – – –8 –8 – –8 Net gain/(loss) on equity instruments designated at fair value – – – – –104 –104 – –104 Cash flow hedges – – – 37 – 37 – 37 Translation differences from foreign operations – – 30 – – 30 – 30 Tax relating to components of other comprehensive income 15 – – – –7 24 18 – 18 Other comprehensive income – – 30 30 –88 –27 – –27 Total comprehensive income – – 30 30 996 1,057 – 1,057 Dividend – – – – –688 –688 – –688 Incentive programs – – – – –3 –3 – –3 Transactions with the shareholders, total – – – – –691 –691 – –691 Closing balance April 30, 2020 192 812 1,307 –29 5,830 8,113 1 8,113 1) Of which transferred to the income statement in 2019/20: SEK –145 M (–58) 96 ELEKTA ANNUAL REPORT 2019/20 Comments on changes in consolidated equity In 2019/20 Elekta paid a total dividend of SEK 688 M. The diviences arising from the translation of liabilities raised as a dend payment has affected equity through a reduction of hedging instrument for a net investment in foreign operaretained earnings. tions. The translation reserve amounted to SEK 1,307 M (1,277) The total number of shares in Elekta as of April 30, 2020, at year end. amounted to 383,568,409 of which 14,980,769 A-shares and Cash flow hedges are reported in the hedge reserve via other 368,587,640 B-shares. See Note 26 for more information on comprehensive income. Elekta hedges its currency risk in line share capital. with the policy established by the board. The scope of this Total equity includes equity of foreign subsidiaries. Translahedging is determined by the Company’s c ­ urrency risk assesstion is performed at closing rate and the translation differment. Currency hedging is defined on the basis of the expected ence is reported in the translation reserve via other compresales in foreign currency over up to 24 months. Hedging is done hensive income. The translation difference amounted to SEK to reduce the effects of short-term fluctuations on the cur30 M (243) in 2019/20. Shareholders’ equity in foreign currency rency markets. The hedge reserve includes the effective portion is hedged when it is deemed appropriate in individual cases. of the accumulated net change in the fair value of cash flow The translation reserve includes all exchange rate differences hedging instruments attributable to hedging transactions that arising in con­junction with the translation of foreign operahave not yet occurred. During 2019/20 the change in the hedge tions that have prepared their financial reports in a currency reserve was SEK 30 M (–82) after tax and the closing balance of other than that used in the group’s financial reports. In addithe hedge reserve was SEK –29 M (–59). tion, the translation reserve consists of exchange rate differChanges in consolidated equity Consolidated equity and return SEK M SEK M % 2,500 10,000 50 2,000 8,000 40 1,500 6,000 30 1,000 4,000 20 1,000 2,000 10 0 0 0 20162017201820192020–1,000 04-30 04-30 04-30 04-30 04-30 2017/18 2018/19 2019/20 Profit for the year Translation differences Incentive programs Average shareholder’s equity, SEK M Cash flow hedges Remeasurements of defined benefit pension plans Return on shareholder’s equity, percent Dividends Net gain/(loss) on equity instruments designated at fair value ELEKTA ANNUAL REPORT 2019/20 97 FINANCIAL REPORTING / GROUP Consolidated cash flow statement SEK M Note 2019/20 2018/19 Operating activities Profit before tax 1,454 1,580 Non-cash items: Depreciation and amortization 8, 16, 17, 18 1,275 943 Interest net 34 150 91 Other non-cash items etc. 34 54 21 Operating cash flow before interest and tax 2,932 2,635 Interest received 63 66 Interest paid –208 –175 Income taxes paid 15 –261 –269 Operating cash flow 2,526 2,256 Change in inventories –116 –20 Change in operating receivables –434 –367 Change in operating liabilities –962 –249 Change in working capital –1,512 –636 Cash flow from operating activities 1,014 1,621 Investing activities Investments in intangible assets 16 –566 –458 Investments in machinery and equipment 18 –196 –201 Sale of fixed assets 0 0 Continuous investments –761 –658 Cash flow after continuous investments 252 962 Business combinations 34, 36 –178 –85 Divestments 34 – 92 Short-term investments 34 –26 38 Investments associates 34 – –6 Investments in other shares 34 –343 –58 Repayments from partnerships 20 10 3 Cash flow from investing activities –1,298 –674 Cash flow after investments –284 946 Financing activities Borrowings 34 4,745 500 Change in lease liabilities 34 –205 – Repayment of debt 34 –1,229 –1,438 Dividend –688 –535 Cash flow from financing activities 2,624 –1,473 Cash flow for the year 2,339 –527 Change in cash and cash equivalents during the year Cash and cash equivalents at the beginning of the year 4,073 4,458 Cash flow for the year 2,339 –527 Exchange rate differences –5 142 Cash and cash equivalents at the end of the year 25 6,407 4,073 98 ELEKTA ANNUAL REPORT 2019/20 Comments on the consolidated cash flow statement The cash flow statement describes the ability of the operaCash flow from operating activities decreased to SEK 1,014 M tions to generate cash and cash equivalents. Elekta’s cash (1,621). flow is used primarily to finance market growth, strategic Cash flow from investing activities amounted to SEK –1,298 M research projects and investments. Based on the income (–674) including investments in intangible assets of SEK –566 M statement and balance sheet translated at the average (–458). exchange rate, the statement shows the Group’s net flows Cash flow after continuous investments decreased by SEK during the year. 710 M to SEK 252 M (962). The decline in cash flow was due to Elekta’s project-based operations affect cash flow through increased levels of net working capital. movements in working capital. Payment flows from projects Cash flow after investments amounted to SEK –284 M (946), generally occur in connection with order receipt, delivery and including p ­ ayments relating to business combinations of SEK acceptance – mostly not coinciding with r­ evenue recognition –178 M (–91). – thus generating fluctuations in working capital levels. See Cash flow from financing activities amounted to SEK 2,624 M also comments on working capital on page 95. (–1,473). The operating cash flow (cash flow from operating activities exclusive of change in working capital) amounted to SEK 2,526 M (2,256), an increase of SEK 270 M compared with the preceding year. Cash flow from operating Specification of cash flow after activities continuous investments SEK M SEK M 3,000 3,000 2,000 1,500 1,000 0 0 –1,000 –1,500 Q1 Q2 Q3 Q4 Q1 Q2 Q3 Q4 Q1 Q2 Q3 Q4 Q1 Q2 Q3 Q4 Q1 Q2 Q3 Q4 Q1 Q2 Q3 Q4 2017/18 2018/19 2019/20 2017/18 2018/19 2019/20 Per quarter Investments/Divestments Change in working capital Rolling 12 months Operating cash flow ELEKTA ANNUAL REPORT 2019/20 99 FINANCIAL REPORTING / PARENT COMPANY Financial statements – Parent Company Income statement – Parent Company Balance sheet – Parent Company SEK M Note 2019/20 2018/19 SEK M Note April 30, 2020 April 30, 2019 Administrative expenses –131 –145 ASSETS Operating result –131 –145 Non-current assets Intangible assets 16 53 60 Income from participations in Group ­companies 11 297 783 Shares in subsidiaries 19 2,251 2,439 Income from participations in Shares in associated ­associated companies 0 –5 companies 20 6 6 Interest income and similar items 13 220 192 Receivables from subsidiaries 2,391 2,393 Interest expenses and similar items 13 –195 –191 Other financial assets 21 320 81 Write-down participations in other companies –107 – Deferred tax assets 15 41 3 Exchange rate differences 3 2 Total non-current assets 5,062 4,983 Appropriations 14 14 –14 Current assets Profit before tax 101 621 Receivables from subsidiaries 4,248 3,436 Income taxes 15 36 3 Other current receivables 24 81 102 Profit for the year 137 624 Short-term investments 25 – 45 Cash and cash equivalents 25 5,387 2,941 Total current assets 9,716 6,524 Statement of comprehensive income Total assets 14,778 11,507 – Parent Company EQUITY AND LIABILITIES SEK M 2019/20 2018/19 Equity Share capital 26 192 192 Profit for the year 137 624 Statutory reserve 156 156 Restricted equity 348 348 Other comprehensive income Premium reserve 657 657 Items that subsequently may be reclassified to the statement of income: Retained earnings 1,341 1,893 Hedge of net investment – – Unrestricted equity 1,998 2,550 Tax – – Total equity 2,346 2,898 Other comprehensive income, net – – Untaxed reserves 14 – 14 Total comprehensive income 137 624 Long-term provisions 28 10 12 Long-term interestbearing liabilities 27 7,101 3,553 Total long-term liabilities 7,111 3,579 Current liabilities Short-term interestbearing liabilities 27 942 1,000 Short-term liabilities to subsidiaries 27 4,283 3,934 Short-term provisions 28 1 0 Other current liabilities 31 95 95 Total current liabilities 5,321 5,029 Total equity and liabilities 14,778 11,507 100 ELEKTA ANNUAL REPORT 2019/20 Cash flow statement – Parent Company SEK M Note 2019/20 2018/19 Operating activities Profit before tax 101 621 Interest net 34 –44 –21 Other non-cash items 34 286 –51 Interest received 199 192 Interest paid –156 –190 Income taxes paid 15 –2 0 Operating cash flow 384 551 Change in operating ­receivables –783 251 Change in operating ­liabilities 359 2 Change in working capital –424 253 Cash flow from operating activities –40 804 Investing activities Shareholders’ contributions paid 34 –7 –44 Divestments of subsidiaries 34 – 92 Short-term investments 25 45 38 Investment in associated companies 34 – –6 Investments in other shares 34 –343 –58 Change in long-term ­receivables –7 –14 Cash flow from investing activities –312 8 Cash flow after investments –352 812 Financing activities Borrowings 4,333 – Repayment of debt –868 –954 Dividend –688 –535 Cash flow from financing activities 2,777 –1,489 Cash flow for the year 2,425 –677 Change in cash and cash equivalents during the year Cash and cash equivalents at the b ­ eginning of the year 2,941 3,625 Cash flow for the year 2,425 –677 Exchange rate differences 21 –8 Cash and cash equivalents at the end of the year 25 5,387 2,941 Changes in equity – Parent Company Restricted equity Unrestricted equity Statutory Retained Total SEK M Share capital reserve Premium reserve ­earnings equity Opening balance May 1, 2018 192 156 657 1,818 2,823 Opening balance adjustment due to IFRS 9 – – – –17 –17 Profit for the year – – – 624 624 Other comprehensive income – – – – – Total comprehensive income – – – 624 624 Dividend – – – –535 –535 Incentive programs – – – 3 3 Transactions with the shareholders, total – – – –532 –532 Closing balance April 30, 2019 192 156 657 1,893 2,898 Opening balance May 1, 2019 192 156 657 1,893 2,898 Profit for the year – – – 137 137 Other comprehensive income – – – – – Total comprehensive income – – – 137 137 Dividend – – – –688 –688 Incentive programs – – – –1 –1 Transactions with the shareholders, total – – – –689 –689 Closing balance April 30, 2020 192 156 657 1,341 2,346 ELEKTA ANNUAL REPORT 2019/20 101 FINANCIAL REPORTING / NOTES Notes NOTE 1 those of minor value, have been recognized in the balance sheet. Depreciation of lease assets must be separately recogEssential accounting principles nized from interest on lease liabilities in the income statement. The major effect from implementing the new standard Elekta AB, with corporate registration number 556170-4015, is is related to operating lease agreements for offices, factories a Swedish public company with its registered office in Stockand warehouses. The standard was effective for annual holm. The address to the head office is Elekta AB, Kungstensreporting periods beginning on or after January 1, 2019 and gatan 18, Box 7593, SE-103 93 Stockholm. Elekta has implemented the new standard as of May 1, 2019. This annual report, including the consolidated financial For more information see note 39. statements, was signed and approved for publication by the Other new or revised standards and interpretations, not yet Board of Directors of Elekta AB on July 6, 2020. The stateapplied, are not c ­ onsidered to have a material impact on the ments of income and the balance sheets, for the P ­ arent Elekta Group’s financial s­ tatements. Company and the Group, included in the annual report and the consolidated financial statements, are subject to adopConsolidated accounts tion by the annual general meeting on August 26, 2020. The consolidated accounts include Elekta AB (the Parent The most important accounting principles applied in the Company) and its subsidiaries. Subsidiaries are all companies preparation of the financial reports are set out below and, in which the Group has a controlling interest. The Group has a where applicable, in the following notes. Mainly, the same controlling interest in a company when it has exposure, or principles are applied for the Parent Company and the Group. right, to variable returns from its holding in the company and The Parent Company’s accounting principles deviating from has the ability to use its power over the company to affect those applied by the Group, or con­sidered important to the returns. A subsidiary is included in the con­solidated describe, are stated under a separate heading at the end of accounts from the point in time when the controlling interest this note. is obtained until the point in time when the controlling interest ceases. Intra-group transactions, balance sheet items and Basis for preparation unrealized intra-group profits are eliminated in the consoliElekta’s consolidated financial statements have been predated accounts. pared in accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards (IFRS) as endorsed by the European Union (EU) on The acquisition method April 30, 2020, the Swedish Annual Accounts Act and stanThe consolidated accounts have been prepared in accordance dard RFR 1 of the Swedish Financial Reporting Board. The Parent with the acquisition method, which means that the cost of Company’s financial reports have been prepared in accorshares in subsidiaries is eliminated against their equity at the dance with the Swedish Annual Accounts Act and standard time of acquisition. Acquisition related transaction costs are RFR 2 of the Swedish Financial Reporting Board. not included in the cost of the shares but expensed as incurred. The equity in a subsidiary is determined on the basis Measurement basis of the fair value of assets, liabilities and contingent liabilities Assets and liabilities are recognized at historical cost apart at the acquisition date. Thus, only the part of the subsidiary’s from financial assets and liabilities that are short-term investequity which has arisen after the acquisition date is included ments, derivatives and contingent considerations, which are in the consolidated accounts. In business combinations, recognized at fair value. where the sum of (i) the cost of shares in subsidiaries, (ii) the value of non-controlling interest and (iii) the fair value of preNew and revised IFRS applied from May 1, 2019 viously held equity interest, exceeds the fair value of the The following amended standards were effective January 1, Group’s share of acquired identifiable net assets at acquisi2019 and have been applied from May 1, 2019. tion, the difference is reported as goodwill. If the initial accounting for a business combination is IFRS 16 Leases incomplete by the end of the reporting period in which the IFRS 16 Leases replaces IAS 17 Leases and the related interprecombination occurs, provisional amounts are reported for the tations IFRIC 4, SIC15 and SIC 27. The new standard has priitems for which the accounting is incomplete. Such amounts marily affected the accounting for leases in the books of a may be adjusted during the measurement period, or new lessee, whereas the accounting in all material aspects has assets or liabilities may be recognized, to reflect new inforremained unchanged for lessors. With the new standard there mation obtained about facts and circumstances that existed is no longer a distinction between operating and finance as of the acquisition date and, if known, would have affected lease. All leases, with the exception of short-term leases and the measurement of the amounts recognized as of that date. 102 ELEKTA ANNUAL REPORT 2019/20 Non-controlling interests Transactions and balances in In connection with acquisitions of less than 100 percent, when foreign currency a controlling influence is achieved, non-controlling interests Transactions in foreign currency are translated to the respecare determined either as a proportional share of the fair value tive Group C ­ ompany’s functional currency by use of the curof identifiable net assets excluding goodwill or at fair value. rency rate prevailing on the transaction date. Monetary Non-controlling interests are recognized as a separate item in receivables and liabilities in foreign currency are similarly the Group’s equity. The Group’s profit or loss and every comtranslated by use of the closing day rate. Exchange rate difponent of other comprehensive income are attributable to ferences arising upon translation, and upon payment of the the shareholders of the ­Parent and to non-controlling intertransaction, are reported in the income statement with the ests. Losses attributable to non-­controlling interests are recexception of those related to qualified hedge transactions, ognized even if this results in a negative balance. Subsequent related to cash flows or net investments, which are recogacquisitions up to 100 percent and divestments of participanized in equity under other comprehensive income. Exchange tions in a subsidiary that do not lead to a loss of controlling rate gains and losses on operating balance sheet items are influence are ­recognized as equity transactions. recognized in the operating result. Exchange rate gains and losses on loans and investments are recognized as financial Translation of foreign subsidiaries items. Non-monetary assets and liabilities carried at historiThe Group companies prepare their financial statements in cal cost are translated at the exchange rate prevailing on the their functional currency, i.e. the currency used in the primary transaction date. economic environment in which they mainly operate. These reports provide the basis for the con­solidated accounts which Cash flow statement are prepared in Swedish kronor (SEK), which is the functional The cash flow statement is prepared according to the indirect currency of the Parent Company and the presentation curmethod. rency. Unless otherwise stated, the amounts presented are in millions Swedish krona and, accordingly, rounding differences Exchange rates can occur. The income statements and balance sheets of forAverage rate Closing rate eign subsidiaries have been translated, from their respective April 30, April 30, functional currency, to the presentation currency of the Country Currency 2019/20 2018/19 2020 2019 Group. All items in the income statements have been transAustralia AUD 6.504 6.542 6.464 6.700 lated at the average rate for the reporting period, while Canada CAD 7.216 6.854 7.102 7.063 assets and liabilities in the balance sheets have been transChina CNY 1.378 1.339 1.396 1.412 lated at the closing rate. Translation differences are reported Euroland EUR 10.681 10.378 10.694 10.640 in other comprehensive income. United Kingdom GBP 12.200 11.778 12.278 12.306 Certain long-term financing related to subsidiaries, where a Hong Kong HKD 1.234 1.151 1.271 1.212 settlement is not considered to take place in the foreseeable Japan JPY 0.089 0.081 0.092 0.085 future, is considered as an increase in the Parent Company’s USA USD 9.637 9.028 9.847 9.510 net investment in the subsidiaries. Taking the tax effect into consideration, exchange gains and losses are reported in other comprehensive income. The Parent Company Income statement The Group’s Parent Company, Elekta AB, carries out group Elekta presents its income statement classified by function where management and provides joint group functions and finanthe operating expenses are allocated to cost of products sold, cial management. The P ­ arent Company’s revenues consist selling expenses, administrative expenses and R&D expenses. mainly of dividends from subsidiaries. The most material balExchange rate differences are reported on separate lines within ance sheet items are shares in subsidiaries, intra-group the operating result. These have been identified as important to ­balances and external loans. distinguish from operating revenue and costs directly related to The Parent Company’s annual accounts have been prefunctions in order to ease comparability over time. pared in accordance with the Swedish Annual Accounts Act (1995:1554) and standard RFR 2 of the Swedish Financial Reporting Board. RFR 2 requires the Parent Company, in its annual accounts, to apply all the International Financial Reporting Standards (IFRS) as endorsed by the EU in so far as this is possible within the framework of the Annual Accounts ELEKTA ANNUAL REPORT 2019/20 103 FINANCIAL REPORTING / NOTES NOTE 1 Essential accounting principles, cont. Act and with regard to the relationship between accounting areas such as currency risk, interest-rate risk, credit risk, utiliand taxation. RFR 2 states what exceptions from, and addization of derivative instruments and financial instruments tions to, IFRS should be made. that are not derivatives, and the investment of surplus liquidity. Revenues Market risk The Parent Company’s revenues consist mainly of dividends Market risk encompasses currency risk, interest-rate risk and from sub­sidiaries. Dividends are recognized when the right to price risk. The Group’s exposure to and management of curreceive payment is judged to be firm. rency risk and interest-rate risk are described below. The Group’s exposure to price risk is limited and is not described in Shares in subsidiaries and shares in associates particular. Shares in subsidiaries and shares in associates are accounted for at cost less any accumulated impairment losses. AcquisiCurrency risk tion-related transaction costs are included in the cost of the Because of its international operations, the Group is exposed shares. The recoverable amount of shares in subsidiaries or to currency risks in the form of transaction exposure and shares in associates is calculated whenever there is an indicatranslation exposure. Trans­action exposure arises as a result tion of a reduction in value. Impairment is performed if the of future business transactions and translation exposure recoverable amount is lower than the carrying value. Impairemerges as a result of recognized assets and liabilities in ment losses are recognized in the financial net in the income ­foreign currency as well as net investments in foreign operastatement. tions. The Group’s currency risk mainly arises from currency exposures in US dollars (USD), Euro (EUR), British Pounds Financial instruments (GBP), Japanese Yen (JPY) and Chinese Yuan (CNY). Derivative financial instruments and short-term investments The Group’s net revenue arises primarily in USD, EUR and are accounted for at fair value. Changes in the fair values of JPY, while the Group’s net expenses largely arise in GBP, EUR derivative financial instruments are reported in the income and USD. Sales companies primarily have income and statement with the exception of exchange differences related expenses in their functional ­currency while production comto a monetary item that forms part of a net investment in a panies are to a greater extent exposed to currency risk as foreign subsidiary. Such value changes are recognized in sales are largely in a currency other than the functional curequity under other comprehensive income. Contingent conrency. The currency risk that arises from future business transsiderations are reported as provisions in the Parent Company. actions and recognized assets and liabilities are managed using derivative contracts based on forecasted net flows and Group contributions recognized net balances. Elekta’s policy is to hedge the Group contributions are reported in accordance with RFR 2. exchange-rate risk using forwards, the extent of which is Group contributions received and given are recognized as determined by the Group’s estimation of the exchange-rate income from participations in Group companies and increase risk and in accordance with the Group’s established policy. of shares in subsidiaries respectively. The tax effect of group Highly forecasted transaction exposure hedging is on the contributions is recognized in the income statement in accorbasis of expected net sales and hedging is conducted over a dance with IAS 12. period up to 24 months. Each Group company is responsible for quantifying its transaction exposure in particular flow forecasts that then provide the basis for determination of the NOTE 2 exposure and decisions on hedging measures. Currency hedging of ­recognized assets and liabilities in foreign currency is Financial risk management hedged, in accordance with policy, from 50 percent to 100 percent. Accounting principles Hedging is carried out in order to reduce the effects of See note 3 for accounting principles relating to financial short-term fluctuations in currency markets. The Parent Cominstruments. pany’s direct and indirect holdings in foreign operations entail that net assets in the foreign operations are exposed to curFinancial risk factors rency risk. Such net investments in foreign currency are As a result of its operations, the Elekta Group is exposed to a hedged when viewed as appropriate on an individual basis, number of financial risks: market risk, credit risk and liquidity currently there are no outstanding net investment hedges. risk. The Group’s over­riding risk management policy focuses Based on the year’s income, expense and currency strucon the unpredictability of financial markets and seeks to ture (transaction exposure) a general change of one percentreduce any potentially unfavorable effects on the Group’s age point in the SEK exchange rate against other currencies financial results. would affect Group net profit and shareholders’ equity by Risk management is conducted by the Group’s finance approximately +/– SEK 24 M (21), exclusive of hedging effects. department, which identifies, evaluates and hedges financial The table below shows the impact on net income from a 1 risks. Work is pursued in line with the policies established by percent weakening of the Swedish krona (SEK) in relation to the board for over­arching risk management and for specific the major currencies. 104 ELEKTA ANNUAL REPORT 2019/20 Impact on operating result of a 1 percent one percentage point would affect the Group’s net result and weakening of SEK, SEK M shareholders’ equity by +/– SEK 1 M (5), excluding hedging effects. The impact on the result is mainly attributable to lower/higher interest expense for loans at variable interest rate. Currency April 30, 2020 April 30, 2019 On April 30, 2020, interest-bearing liabilities amounted to USD 39 39 SEK 9,358 M (4,558), of which SEK 1,256 M (6) pertained to EUR 8 5 lease liabilities. The average fixed interest term was 1.2 years JPY 4 5 (0.9) and the weighted average interest rate, taking interest GBP –26 –29 rate derivatives into account, was 1.8 percent (2.3). See Note CNY –7 –5 27 for more information on interest-bearing loans. Other currencies 6 6 Credit risk The Group’s net sales and operating expenses by currency for Credit risk arises via financial credit risk related to cash and 2019/20 are shown in the following diagram. cash equivalents, short-term investments, derivative instruments and balances at banks and financial institutions as Net sales and operating expenses well as through credit exposure vis-à-vis customers and disper currency tributors. Credit risk is managed primarily at Group level, but, as regards credit risk in accounts receivable and accrued SEK M income, the primary responsibility lies with the individual 8,000 Group companies. Maximum credit risk is deemed to correspond to the carrying values of the financial assets recognized in the balance sheet. 4,000 Financial credit risk 0 Elekta’s finance policy includes special counterparty regulations in which the maximum credit exposure and the lowest –4,000 USD EUR JPY GBP CNY SEK Other credit rating for various counterparts are specified. Elekta’s liquidity is invested in accordance with the determined policy, Net sales 2019/20 Net sales 2018/19 with the goal of maintaining high liquidity combined with a Operating expense 2019/20 Operating expense 2018/19 low credit risk. The majority of the subsidiary financing goes through internal loans from the Parent Company, therefore there is a Interest-rate risk credit risk originating from these. The opening balance of Interest-rate risk refers to the risk that changes in the interest expected credit losses in the Parent Company amounted to rate level n ­ egatively affect Elekta’s earnings. SEK 24 M and the closing balance of expected credit loss Elekta’s policy is to reduce the interest-rate risk through the reservation FY 2019/20 was SEK 31 M, the increase was mainly use of loans, investments and derivatives. Hedging is carried due to higher loans to Great Britain. out in order to reduce impact on result from interest rate movements and is never to exceed the amount and maturity Credit risk in accounts receivable of the underlying exposure. The Group’s finance department Credit risk in accounts receivable, including accrued income, analyzes exposure to interest-rate risk, whereby refinancing, are managed primarily by the individual group companies. turnover of existing positions, alternative financing and hedgThe credit risk for each new customer is analyzed before the ing are taken into account. Based on this, the effect on earnconditions for payment and delivery are offered. A continuous ings that a certain change in the interest rate would have is follow up of the credit risk in receivables outstanding and calculated, in which the total change in the interest rate is agreed transactions are performed. A risk assessment is conused for all currencies. ducted continuously of credit worthiness through the obserElekta usually obtains long-term loans at a variable or fixed vance of the customer’s financial position and other influencinterest rate based on current market conditions. Conversion ing factors as well as previous experience. No single customer to fixed or variable interest rates is done using interest rate accounts for 10 percent or more of Elekta’s net sales. derivatives when this is deemed appropriate from a risk manA continuous assessment is made of the credit risk in agement and market perspective. An interest rate swap receivables outstanding and at the end of the financial year entails that the Group reaches agreement with another party 2019/20 the provision for bad debts amounted to SEK 198 M. with the indicated intervals (such as per quarter) to swap the See Note 23 for an analysis of credit exposure in accounts difference between fixed and variable interest amount, estireceivable and provision for bad debts. mated on the basis of the contracted n ­ ominal amount. Based on the balance sheet structure at year-end and under the assumption that all other variables were constant, a general change in the interest rate on loans and investments by ELEKTA ANNUAL REPORT 2019/20 105 FINANCIAL REPORTING / NOTES NOTE 2 Financial risk management, cont. Liquidity risk and short-term investments amounted to SEK 6,462 M (4,111), Liquidity risk pertains to the risk of not being able to cover or 44 percent (30) of net sales. In addition, Elekta had SEK payment obligations due to insufficient cash and cash equiv225 M (2,128) in unutilized credit facilities. alents or difficulties in obtaining external financing. The operThe table below shows the Group’s liquidity risk through a ating Group companies draw up cash flow forecasts, which maturity analysis regarding financial liabilities (including are consolidated centrally. At the Group level, rolling forecasts interest payments as applicable) and derivatives recognized for the Group’s liquidity reserve are observed in order to as financial liabilities. The amounts noted in the table are ensure that the Group has sufficient cash resources to meet contractual, undiscounted cash flows classified on the basis the requirements of current operations, while also retaining of the term on the balance sheet date that remains to the sufficient scope of unutilized credit facilities. agreed maturity date. Excess liquidity in operating Group companies is usually transferred centrally and is managed by the Group’s financial Capital management function. Investments are made primarily in interest-bearing The primary objective of the Group’s capital management is accounts, term-limited borrowing, money market instruto secure a going concern through maintaining a high creditments, money market funds and tradable securities, dependworthiness and a well-­balanced capital structure with the aim ing on which instrument is viewed as having an appropriate of generating return to shareholders and benefits for other term or sufficient liquidity to meet the particular situation. In stakeholders, and to keep down the costs of capital. order to reduce the liquidity risk, Elekta endeavors to mainIn order to maintain or adjust the capital structure, the Group tain readily available funds equal to at least 10 percent of net can change the dividend paid to shareholders, repay capital to sales. On April 30, 2020, available cash and cash equivalents shareholders, issue new shares or sell assets to reduce debt. Maturity analysis: financial liabilities April 30, 2020 April 30, 2019 > 1 yrs > 3 yrs > 1 yrs > 3 yrs SEK M < 1 yr < 3 yrs < 5 yrs > 5 yrs Total < 1 yr < 3 yrs < 5 yrs > 5 yrs Total Loans (Note 27) 1,149 2,907 3,557 944 8,557 1,104 3,251 512 – 4,867 Lease liabilities (Note 27) 252 399 224 622 1,497 – 5 – – 5 Accounts payable 1,025 – – – 1,025 1,427 – – – 1,427 Derivative financial instruments – outflow, gross 4,751 672 – – 5,424 4,101 356 – – 4,457 Derivative financial instruments – inflow, gross –3,923 – – – –3,923 –2,228 –352 – – –2,580 Other liabilities 501 66 – – 567 308 55 – – 363 Total 3,755 4,044 3,781 1,566 13,146 4,712 3,315 512 – 8,539 Net debt/EBITDA ratio SEK M Note April 30, 2020 April 30, 2019 Interest-bearing liabilities 27 8,102 4,558 Cash and cash equivalents and short-term investments 25 –6,470 –4,119 Net debt 1,632 439 EBITDA 2,931 2,639 Net debt /EBITDA ratio 0.56 0.17 The net debt/EBITDA ratio was 0.56 compared to 0.17 to prior fiscal year. See Note 27 for more information on interest-bearing liabilities and section Alternative Performance Measures on pages 145–146 for more information on EBITDA and Net debt. 106 ELEKTA ANNUAL REPORT 2019/20 NOTE 3 Financial instruments Accounting principles Financial assets measured at amortized cost A financial asset or a financial liability is reported in the balAssets are classified in this category when the intention is to ance sheet when the Company becomes party to the conhold the asset for collection of contractual cashflows and the tractual terms and conditions of the instrument. A financial cashflow represent solely payments of principal and interest. asset is removed from the balance sheet when the contracIn this category assets are measured at amortized cost tual rights are realized, fall due, or if the Company transfer using the effective interest method, less any provision for substantially all the risks and rewards of ownership. Spot impairment. Interest income and gains and losses is recogacquisitions or sales of financial assets are reported on the nized in the income statement. The category includes for settlement date, which is the date on which the asset is delivexample accounts receivables as well as cash and bank. ered. Accounts receivable are reported in the balance sheet when the invoice is dispatched. Accounts receivable Financial assets are initially recognized at fair value plus Since the anticipated life of accounts receivable is short, transaction costs, except for those financial assets carried at reporting is based on the amounts expected to be received, fair value through profit or loss. Related transaction costs are without discounting in accordance with the method for expensed in the income statement. amortized cost. Impairment loss on accounts receivable is The fair value of quoted financial assets corresponds to the recognized in operating profit. See note 2 and 23 for further asset’s listed bid price on the closing date. In the absence of information about credit risk and impairment policies. such information, a valuation is carried out using generally accepted methods such as the discounting of future cash Cash and cash equivalent flows at the quoted market interest rate for the particular Cash and cash equivalent comprise cash and bank balances maturity. with financial institutions and short-term investments with an For short-term loans, the fair value is deemed to comply original maturity of less than three months. Cash and bank with the carrying amount in view of the fact that a change in are reported at amortized cost, while the short-term investmarket rate of interest does not have a material effect on the ments in money market funds is measured at fair value market value. through profit and loss. Financial assets and liabilities are off-set and reported at a net amount in the balance sheet when there is a legal right to Financial assets measured at fair value net and when the intention is to settle the items using a net through other comprehensive income (FVOCI) amount or simultaneously realize the assets and settle the When the intention of the financial asset is to hold the asset liability. for collection of contractual cashflow and for selling it, and Subsequent measurement of the financial asset, after the the cashflow represent solely payments of principal and interinitial recognition at fair value, is based on what business est, the asset is classified into this category. The assets are model the Company have for managing the asset and the measured at fair value with changes in fair value recognized cash flow characteristics of the asset. For debt instruments in other comprehensive income (OCI), except for effective there are three measurement categories with the following interest, impairment gains and losses and foreign exchange characteristics. gains and losses which are recognized in the income state• Amortized cost; assets held with the intention for collection ment. When the financial asset is derecognized, the cumulaof contractual cashflows and the cashflow represent solely tive gain or loss in OCI is reclassified to the financial income payments of principal and interest. statement. • Fair value through other comprehensive income; assets held In this category Elekta has classified account receivables with the intention for collection of contractual cashflow that may be sold. For Elekta it is only in a few countries where and for selling it, and the cashflow represent solely payaccount receivables are subject for factoring. ments of principal and interest. As the sold account receivables are derecognized close to • Fair value through profit and loss; all financial assets that them being issued, there are no material differences between do not meet the criteria for amortized cost or fair value fair value and amortized cost. through other comprehensive income. Elekta treat interest in other shares as equity investment designated as measured at fair value through other compreEquity instruments, instrument that evidences a residual hensive income with gains and losses remaining in other cominterest in the asset of an entity after deduction of all its liaprehensive income, without recycling to profit or loss upon bilities, are measured at fair value through profit and loss. derecognition. The financial liabilities are classified into following measurement categories: • fair value through profit and loss; liabilities held for ­trading • amortized costs; liabilities not held for trading ELEKTA ANNUAL REPORT 2019/20 107 FINANCIAL REPORTING / NOTES NOTE 3 Financial instruments, cont. Financial assets measured at fair value Accounts payable through profit and loss (FVPL) The valuation principle for accounts payable is the amortized All financial assets that do not meet the criteria for amorcost principle. The expected lifetime for accounts payable is tized cost or FVOCI are measured as FVPL. Assets are classishort and thus the payables are reported at nominal value fied to this category when the intention is to sell in short without discounting. term. Derivatives with a positive market value are classified in this category unless they are used for hedge accounting. Accounting for derivatives used for hedging p ­ urposes Financial derivatives and short-term investments in tradeable The group applies the hedge accounting requirements of IFRS securities as well as money market funds is classified in this 9. All derivatives are initially and continuously recognized at category. Assets in this category are recognized at fair value fair value in the Balance sheet. Gains and losses on remeasureand changes in value are recognized in the income statement of derivatives used for hedging purposes are recognized ment. as follows. Changes in value relating to cash flow hedges are reported in other comprehensive income and are taken to Impairment the income statement as the hedged cash flow affects the Financial assets carried at amortized cost and FVOCI are income statement. Any ineffective portion of the change in assessed for impairment based on expected credit losses. The value is reported directly in the income statement. expected credit loss allowance is based on historical credit The result of a revaluation of derivatives used to hedge fair loss experience, current conditions and forward-looking ecovalue is reported in the income statement along with changes nomic conditions. in the fair value of the receivable or liability exposed to the The impairment methodology applied depends on whether hedged risk. For derivatives designated and qualified as hedgthere has been a significant increase in credit risk. The Coming instruments, the method of recognizing the fair value pany applies the simplified approach to measuring expected gains or losses depends on the nature of the item being credit losses on accounts receivables, meaning a use of a lifehedged. time expected loss allowance. See note 23 for more informaThe Group documents, at the inception of the hedge, the tion about impairment on accounts receivables. relationship between hedged item and financial derivative instrument, as well as its risk management objective and Financial liabilities at fair value through profit or loss strategy. The Group also documents its assessment, both at This category includes derivatives with negative fair values the hedge inception and on an ongoing basis, of whether the that are not used for hedge accounting, financial liabilities derivatives that are used in hedging transactions are highly held for trading and contingent considerations. Liabilities in effective in offsetting the changes in fair values or cash flows this category are measured at fair value with changes in that of hedged items based on the following hedging criteria’s. value recognized in the income statement. • There is an economic relationship between the hedged item and the hedging instrument Financial liabilities measured at amortized cost • The effect of credit risk does not dominate the value This category includes financial liabilities that are not held for changes that result from that economic relationship and trading, for example loans and accounts payable. These are • The hedge ratio of the hedging relationship is consistent recognized initially at fair value, net after transaction costs, with risk management strategy. and subsequently at amortized cost according to the effective interest method. The table below presents the Group’s financial assets and financial liabilities by measurement category with the carryLoan liabilities ing amount and fair value per item. Fair value for long-term Loan liabilities are initially reported at fair value, net of transinterest-bearing liabilities has been established by discounting action costs, and subsequently at amortized cost according future payment flows at current market interest rate and to the effective interest method. then converting to SEK at the current exchange rate. For Loan liabilities carrying a fixed rate of interest that are other financial instruments the fair value is estimated to reported under hedge accounting in line with the method for agree with the carrying amount. fair value hedging are valued at market in respect of the interest component. Changes in market value are off-set with changes in value of the hedge instrument in net financial items. Hedging of net investments Loans in foreign currency are reported at closing rate. Exchange rate differences for loans in connection with hedging of net investments in foreign operations are reported in other comprehensive income, with tax effects taken into account, and are thus off-set against the translation differences that arise when translating the subsidiaries’ balance sheets into SEK. 108 ELEKTA ANNUAL REPORT 2019/20 Financial instruments per category April 30, 2020 April 30, 2019 April 30, 2020 April 30, 2019 Carrying Fair Carrying Fair Carrying Fair Carrying Fair SEK M Note amount value amount value SEK M Note amount value amount value FINANCIAL ASSETS FINANCIAL LIABILITIES Financial assets Financial liabilities ­measured at fair value measured at fair value through profit or loss: through profit or loss: Derivative financial Derivative financial instruments instruments – non-hedging 81 81 70 70 – non-hedging 55 55 25 25 Short-term investments 25 62 62 45 45 Other liabilities (continCurrent investments gent ­considerations) 105 105 2 2 ­classified as cash Financial liabilities ­equivalents 25 1,241 1,241 1,716 1,716 measured at Equity instruments 21 – – 60 60 amortized cost: Financial assets Long-term interest-­ ­measured at bearing ­liabilities 27 7,101 7,503 3,558 3,573 amortized cost: Short-term interest-­ Other financial assets 1) 21 418 418 391 391 bearing ­liabilities 27 1,001 1,002 1,000 1,000 Accounts receivable 23 3,314 3,314 3,399 3,399 Accounts payable 1,025 1,025 1,427 1,427 Other receivables 24 554 554 474 474 Other liabilities 523 523 361 361 Cash and bank 25 5,166 5,166 2,357 2,357 Derivatives used for hedging ­purposes: Financial assets ­measured at fair Derivative financial value through other instruments – hedging 58 58 72 72 ­comprehensive income: 1) O ther financial assets presented in the Annual report 2018/19 has been adjusted to Accounts receivable hold SEK 391 M. to collect and sell­ 23 65 65 56 56 Equity instruments 21 297 297 – – Derivatives used for hedging ­purposes: Derivative financial instruments – hedging 25 25 2 2 Distribution by level when measured at fair value April 30, 2020 April 30, 2019 SEK M Level 1 Level 2 Level 3 Total Level 1 Level 2 Level 3 Total FINANCIAL ASSETS Financial assets measured at fair value through profit or loss: Derivative financial instruments – non-hedge accounting – 81 – 81 – 70 – 70 Short-term investments 62 – – 62 45 – – 45 Current investments classified as cash equivalents 1,241 – – 1,241 1,716 – – 1,716 Equity instruments – – – – 58 – 2 60 Derivatives used for hedging purposes: Derivative financial instruments – hedge accounting – 25 – 25 – 2 – 2 Financial assets measured at fair value through other comprehensive income: Accounts receivable hold to collect and sell­ – 65 – 65 – 56 – 56 Equity instruments 297 – – 297 – – – – Total financial assets 1,600 171 – 1,771 1,819 128 2 1,949 FINANCIAL LIABILITIES Financial liabilities at fair value through profit or loss: Derivative financial instruments – non-hedge accounting – 55 – 55 – 25 – 25 Contingent considerations – – 105 105 – – 2 2 Derivatives used for hedging purposes: Derivative financial instruments – hedge accounting – 58 – 58 – 72 – 72 Total financial liabilities – 112 105 217 – 97 2 99 ELEKTA ANNUAL REPORT 2019/20 109 FINANCIAL REPORTING / NOTES NOTE 3 Financial instruments, cont. The table above shows how the Group’s financial assets and Financial instruments, level 3 financial l­iabilities, which are carried at fair value, have been The change during the year for instruments at level 3 refers to categorized in the fair value hierarchy. The different levels are contingent considerations. Contingent considerations are defined as follows. Level 1: Quoted prices on an active market ­valued at the fair value based on data available such as for identical assets or liabilities. Level 2: Other observable data ­conditions set forth in the purchase agreement and current than quoted prices included in Level 1, either directly (that is, assessments of the estimated fulfillment of the conditions. price quotations) or indirectly (that is, obtained from price quo­ tations). Level 3: Data not based on observable market data. Movements financial instruments level 3 Financial instruments, level 1 SEK M 2019/20 2018/19 The fair value of tradeable securities are reported based on quoted prices on an active market. Contingent considerations Opening balance May 1 2 20 Financial instruments, level 2 Business combinations 103 – The fair value of financial instruments that are not traded on Payments –2 –16 an active market are determined by means of available valuReversals – –1 ation techniques. Market information is used when available. Revaluations – 0 The use of corporate-specific information is avoided whenever Translation differences 2 0 possible. If all important in-data required for a fair value valuClosing balance April 30 105 2 ation of an instrument is observable, the instrument is in level 2. Specific valuation techniques used in the valuation of financial instruments include, for example, listed market Outstanding derivative financial instruments prices, fair value for interest-rate swaps, calculated as the The Group’s derivative financial instruments outstanding at present value of estimated future cash flows based on observ­ April 30 are presented with nominal amounts and fair values able yield, fair value of currency forward contracts determined in the table below. The total amount of fair values of assets through the use of rates for currency foreign exchange conand liabilities respectively are equivalent to the carrying tracts on the balance sheet date. ­values recognized in the balance sheet. Derivatives outstanding April 30, 2020 April 30, 2019 Hedge reserve Hedge reserve SEK M Nominal Asset Liability after tax Nominal Asset Liability 1) after tax Currency derivatives: Cash flow hedges 3,859 25 58 –32 3,103 2 72 –62 Non-hedge accounting 1,405 81 55 – 3,255 70 25 – Currency derivatives, total 5,264 106 112 –32 6,358 72 97 –62 1) The amounts reported as Currency derivatives liability in the Annual report 2018/19 has been adjusted. The table below presents detailed information regarding “Currency rate differences” in the operating result and the Group’s outstanding cash flow hedges. Realized results amounted to SEK –145 M (–58) during the year, of which from cash flow hedges have been recognized on the line SEK –9 M (–3) was related to the ineffective portion. Cash flow hedges outstanding Q1 20/21 Q2 20/21 Q3 20/21 Q4 20/21 21/22 Exchange Exchange Exchange Exchange Exchange Currencies Currency Amount rate Amount rate Amount rate Amount rate Amount rate GBP/SEK GBP 10 M 11.946 26 M 11.883 18 M 12.100 21 M 11.932 15 M 11.858 EUR/SEK EUR 11 M 10.737 17 M 10.644 14 M 10.694 14 M 10.682 18 M 10.946 USD/SEK USD 19 M 9.360 26 M 9.382 30 M 9.478 54 M 9.673 30 M 9.826 JPY/SEK JPY 300 M 0.090 300 M 0.091 200 M 0.092 300 M 0.091 – – USD/GBP USD 14 M 1.300 16 M 1.279 – – – – – – 110 ELEKTA ANNUAL REPORT 2019/20 The hedged transactions in foreign currency are estimated to accounted for in the income statement in the periods when take place in the coming 24 months. Results from the forward the hedged transactions will affect the income statement. exchange agreements recognized in the hedge reserve in The estimated future effect from outstanding cash flow other comprehensive income on 30 April 2020, will be hedges are presented in the table below. Outstanding cash flow hedges’ estimated effect on the income statement 2020/21 2021/22 SEK M Q1 Q2 Q3 Q4 Q1 Q2 Q3 Q4 Expected result from cash flow hedges –12 –12 –8 1 7 5 – –1 Offsetting of financial assets and financial liabilities Offsetting of financial assets and liabilities consists solely of derivative instruments that are encompassed by legally binding agreements on offsetting. 2019/2020 2018/2019 Amounts Amounts Amounts covered by­ ­covered by set off Net netting Amounts Net netting in the amounts in agreements set off in amounts in agreements Gross ­balance the ­balance but not set Net Gross the ­balance the ­balance but not set Net SEK M amount sheet sheet off amount amount sheet sheet off amount Financial assets 106 – 106 –45 62 72 – 72 –59 13 Financial liabilities 112 – 112 –51 62 97 – 97 –84 13 In the case of financial assets and liabilities that are subject both parties elect to apply net deduction. If both parties are to legally binding offsetting agreements, each agreement not in agreement regarding net deduction, gross deduction is ­between the company and the counterparties permit net applied. In the event that one party defaults, the other party deduction of the relevant financial assets and liabilities if is entitled to deduct on a net basis. NOTE 4 Estimates and assessments The preparation of financial statements and application of ­ omplies with the anticipated result. For Elekta, estimates c accounting standards require that management use estiand assessments are particularly important in: mates and assessments. Therefore, they make certain • revenue recognition, see Note 6 assumptions which are considered reasonable under the • valuation of accounts receivable, see Note 23 ­prevailing circumstances. Thus, estimates and assessments • calculation of deferred taxes, see Note 15 affect the financial reports and they are frequently based on • impairment testing of goodwill, see Note 16 experience as well as other factors, including expectations of • calculation of provisions, see Note 28 future events. Using other assumptions than those actually • valuation of leases, see Note 17 applied in the preparation of the financial statements, the result can be different and the actual outcome seldom Estimates and assessments are continually reassessed. ELEKTA ANNUAL REPORT 2019/20 111 FINANCIAL REPORTING / NOTES NOTE 5 Segment reporting Accounting principles Operating segments are reported in accordance with manmonitoring and control. It is from the geographic perspective agement reporting as reported to the chief operating decithat the business activity is conducted and managed. Evalusion maker. The chief operating decision m ­ aker is the function ation of financial performance is executed for three geographic that is responsible for allocation of resources and assessment regions which are Elekta’s operating segments: of the operating segments’ performance. In Elekta, this func• North and South America tion has been identified as the President and CEO who is • Europe, Middle East and Africa responsible for and deals with the continuous administration • Asia Pacific of the Group based on the board’s guidelines and instructions. To his aid, he has the executive management. Elekta’s The same accounting principles are applied in the segment President and CEO evaluates business performance from both reporting as for the Group. geographic and product based perspectives. The geographic See Note 16 for information on goodwill per region. For follow-up is however the main perspective and the product information regarding tangible fixed assets per country see based perspective con­stitutes a complement to the geographic Note 18. Segment reporting North and Europe, Middle East and Asia Other/ Group South America Africa Pacific Group-wide1) total SEK M 2019/20 2018/19 2019/20 2018/19 2019/20 2018/19 2019/20 2018/19 2019/20 2018/19 Net sales 3) 4,482 4,501 5,547 4,956 4,572 4,098 – – 14,601 13,555 Operating expenses –2,704 –2,793 –3,786 –3,207 –3,142 –2,807 – – –9,633 –8,807 Contribution margin 1,778 1,707 1,760 1,749 1,430 1,291 – – 4,968 4,748 Contribution margin, % 40% 38% 32% 35% 31% 32% Global costs – – – – – – –3,312 –3,052 –3,312 –3,052 Operating result 1,778 1,707 1,760 1,749 1,430 1,291 –3,312 –3,052 1,657 1,696 Income participations in ­associated companies – – – – – – –4 3 –4 3 Financial income – – – – – – 63 66 63 66 Financial expenses – – – – – – –266 –186 –266 –186 Exchange rate differences – – – – – – 4 2 4 2 Income before tax 1,778 1,707 1,760 1,749 1,430 1,291 –3,515 –3,167 1,454 1,580 Income tax – – – – – – –370 –382 –370 –382 Profit for the year 1,778 1,707 1,760 1,749 1,430 1,291 –3,884 –3,549 1,084 1,198 Net sales per product type Solutions 2) 1,965 2,192 3,577 3,224 3,305 2,977 – – 8,846 8,394 Service 2,518 2,308 1,970 1,731 1,268 1,122 – – 5,755 5,161 Total 4,482 4,501 5,547 4,956 4,572 4,098 – – 14,601 13,555 Depreciation/Amortization –553 –385 –645 –527 –77 –32 – – –1,275 –943 Investments 444 384 278 235 39 42 – – 761 660 1) Within other/group-wide are costs that can not be allocated by segment such as global costs and items affecting comparability. Allocations by segment are not done for financial items and tax. 2) T he product type Solutions includes hardware and software combined as it better reflects the business follow-up. 3) N et sales from internal transactions amounts to SEK 9,732 M (7,529) and has been eliminated in the table above. 112 ELEKTA ANNUAL REPORT 2019/20 NOTE 6 transferred to the customer, which for a standard contract happens at different stages over a longer period, usually up to Net sales six months depending on the geographical market. Accounting principles Hardware products Elekta’s revenue is primarily derived from the sales of treatIn a standard contract, the control is considered to be transment solutions and oncology informatics including equipment ferred when the device is delivered to the customer’s site used for radiation therapy, radiosurgery and brachytherapy as and installation is started. At this time, risk and rewards are well as software products and related services. transferred, the customer has physical possession of the Many of Elekta’s products and services are sold on a standunit and Elekta has the right to payment for the equipment alone basis but are often included in bundled deals, which are delivered. arrangements where equipment, software and services may be included in the same contract. A bundled deal is treated Software products as a project which is supported by a project team that coorFor software licenses control is considered to be transferred dinates the production, delivery and installation, which can and revenue is recognized when the licenses are made availoccur at different stages. The equipment, installation, softable to the customer, which is usually at the time of accepware, and services are distinct performance obligations tance of the software. excluding the software that is integrated in the hardware. In most contracts the transaction price consists of a fixed Service contracts consideration which is clearly stated in the contract and the For service agreements, control is considered to be transproducts are usually sold without a right of return. In rare cases ferred over time and revenue is recognized on a straight-line contracts can include variable consideration for which the basis over the contractual term of the arrangement or the value is estimated for revenue recognition purposes. expected period during which the specified services will be The allocation of the transaction price, including any disperformed. Maintenance and support agreements relating to count, to the various goods and services (performance obligasoftware products are generally renewed on an annual basis. tions) in a contract is performed based on the relative standInstallation services and training with low values and which alone selling prices for the goods and services identified as span over a limited time are considered non-material and revperformance obligations. As many items included in a bundled enue is recognized when the related device reaches the stage deal are also sold on a stand-alone basis, the stand-alone sellof technical acceptance. ing prices are based on observable prices in most cases. For items not sold on a stand-alone basis the stand-alone selling Estimates and assessment prices have been estimated using the best available market Changes to the goods and services included in an arrangeand internal data relating to those items. ment and the amounts allocated to each item could affect Costs incurred to obtain a contract consist mainly of comthe timing and amount of revenue recognition. Revenue recmissions, which is recognized as contract asset and are amorognition also depends on the timing of shipment, readiness of tized over the time when the related revenue is recognized. the customer’s site, availability of products and for some conThe timing for revenue recognition often does not coincide tracts, customer acceptance terms. If shipments or installawith invoicing and payments from customers. Payment terms tions are not made on scheduled timelines or if the products or conditions for projects differ between regions. In some are not accepted by the customer in a timely manner, revemarkets, partial payments will be due upon certain events nues may differ from expectations. such as order receipt, delivery and acceptance. In other marRevenue recognition does often not coincide with invoicing kets, the entire payment is due upon completion of impleto, and payments from, customers. Payment terms or condimentation or acceptance. Amounts invoiced are reported as tions for projects may differ between contracts and regions, accounts receivable while revenue recognized amounts not but in a standard Elekta contract partial payments will be due yet invoiced are reported as accrued income. upon certain events, such as order receipt, shipment and acceptance. In a standard project, amounts invoiced in accorTreatment solutions dance with an invoicing plan are reported as accounts receivElekta sells treatment solutions including hardware, software able and as a contract liability included in advances from cusand service. Main hardware products are Leksell Gamma tomers if performance obligations are not yet satisfied and Knifes®, Linear accelerators, MR linacs and Afterloaders. Softrevenue cannot be recognized. Amounts that have been recware licenses consist mainly of Oncology informatics systems ognized as revenue, but for which Elekta has not yet the right (OIS) and Treatment planning systems (TPS). Services include to invoice according to the invoicing plan agreed, are reported maintenance and support relating to equipment, software, as contract assets and included in accrued income. For service training, installation services and warranties. Most bundled contracts the agreed consideration is invoiced and paid in deals include at least one device, software licenses, installaadvance in most markets. When there is a contract agreed tion, service, training and one-year standard warranty that is and invoiced to the customer, Elekta usually has the right to included in the price. There is a possibility for an extended payment even if the performance obligations are still to be warranty in some contracts that is considered as a service satisfied. Therefore, a receivable is accounted for with a correcontract. Revenue recognition for these deals is linked to sponding contract liability reported as deferred income. when control for each identified performance obligation is ELEKTA ANNUAL REPORT 2019/20 113 FINANCIAL REPORTING / NOTES NOTE 6 Net sales, cont. Net sales for the year amounted to SEK 14,601 M (13,555). Accounting for equity-settled share-based compensation Accrued income amount to SEK 1,526 M (1,401). Accounts programs entails that the instrument’s fair value at grant receivable amounted to SEK 3,379 M (3,455). For more infordate is recognized in the income statement over the vesting mation on accounts receivable see Note 23. period, with a corresponding adjustment to equity. This leads Net sales per country is based on sales to customers in the to an estimated cost, corresponding to the earned portion of respective country. There is no individual customers reprethe estimated share value at allotment, being charged to senting more than 10 percent of net sales. profit and loss over the vesting period. At each closing in the vesting period the expected number of vested shares is Net sales by country revised and the impact of any changes over the original estimates are recognized in the income statement, with a correSEK M 2019/20 2018/19 sponding adjustment to equity. In addition, provisions are made for estimated employer Sweden 56 200 contributions related to the share programs. Calculations are USA 3,571 3,472 based on a theoretical market valuation where the market China 1,833 1,605 value is calculated using Black & Scholes based on the share Japan 813 847 price on the closing date. For allotted shares, social security Germany 661 652 expenses are paid on the basis of the market value on the Italy 553 527 allotment date. United Kingdom 592 481 India 357 405 Salaries, other remuneration Australia 361 352 and social security costs France 330 347 Canada 300 330 Group Parent Company Spain 424 325 SEK M 2019/20 2018/19 2019/20 2018/19 Netherlands 346 269 Other countries 4,404 3,743 Salaries and remunerations: Total 14,601 13,555 Board and Managing directors 133 126 30 27 Other employees 3,265 2,973 31 37 Total salaries and other remunerations 3,398 3,099 60 65 NOTE 7 Social security costs: Salaries, other remuneration Pension costs 240 254 13 13 Other social security costs 430 374 25 26 and social security costs Total social security costs 670 627 37 38 Total salaries, other remuneraAccounting principles tion and social security costs 4,068 3,727 98 103 Remuneration paid to employees in the form of wages/salary, paid vacation, etcetera is accounted for as it is e ­ arned. Bonuses included in the above salaries and other remunerations paid to the boards and the Managing directors of Share-based compensation ­subsidiaries amounted to SEK 37 M (36), and SEK 10 M (4) Ongoing share programs are reported according to IFRS 2 in the Parent Company. Total pension costs amounted to Share-based payments and are mainly equity-settled. The SEK 240 M (254) of which SEK 20 M (16) concern defined conditions of the share programs state that they may be ­benefit pension plans. Pension costs in the Parent Company ­settled in other ways than through shares. This possibility is amounted to SEK 13 M (13) of which the total amount related only applied to a very limited extent and neither cost nor oblito defined contribution pension plans. For further information gationare material amounts. regarding defined benefit pension plans see Note 28. 114 ELEKTA ANNUAL REPORT 2019/20 Remuneration to the Board of Directors The AGM resolved the adoption of fees to the Board of Directors totaling SEK 6,175 T (6,130), of which 6,175 T (6,130) were paid. The fees were distributed in accordance with the table below. Fees for the Board of Directors April 30, 2020 April 30, 2019 Remuneration Remuneration Regular ­compensation Remuneration Regular ­compensation Remuneration SEK Thousands ­remuneration ­committee audit committee ­remuneration ­committee audit committee Chairman: Laurent Leksell 1,280 115 – 1,165 110 – Members: Tomas Puusepp 550 – – 500 – – Cecilia Wikström 550 80 – 500 75 – Wolfgang Reim 550 80 – 500 75 – Jan Secher 550 – 150 500 – 135 Birgitta Stymne Göransson 550 – 240 500 – 225 Annika Espander Jansson – – – 500 75 – Johan Malmqvist 550 – 150 500 – 135 Caroline Leksell Cooke 550 80 150 500 – 135 Total 5,130 355 690 5,165 335 630 Remuneration to executive management people, of whom seven are located in Sweden and the other The guidelines for remuneration to the executive manageeleven in the Netherlands, the UK, the US, Turkey and China. ment, which are proposed by the Board of Directors for the The tables below display remunerations and other benefits to AGM on August 26, 2020 are presented on page 90. The execthe executive management in 2019/20 and 2018/19 respecutive management for 2019/20 was comprised of a total of 18 tively. Remuneration and other benefits to executive management during the year 2019/20 Fixed Variable Share-based Other­ Pension SEK Thousands ­remuneration ­remuneration compensation 2) benefits costs Total President and CEO 1) 8,864 4,488 –918 5 2,588 15,027 Other senior executives ­resident in Sweden (6) 14,000 3,637 –1,783 460 3,290 19,604 Other senior executives ­resident abroad (11) 37,634 13,879 –1,753 1,862 1,759 53,381 Total senior executives 60,498 22,004 –4,454 2,327 7,636 88,012 1) R  ichard Hausmann resigned as President and CEO June 2, 2020 and Gustaf Salford took over as Acting President and CEO from June 2, 2020. The remuneration and other benefits listed above to the President and CEO is only remunerations and other benefits to Richard Hausmann. 2) During the fiscal year a new estimation of share-based compensation was made which resultated in SEK –4,454 T being recognized in the income statement. Remuneration and other benefits to executive management during the year 2018/19 Fixed Variable Share-based Other­ Pension SEK Thousands ­remuneration ­remuneration compensation benefits costs Total President and CEO 7,984 4,437 2,346 6 1,894 16,666 Other senior executives ­resident in Sweden (6) 13,102 5,330 2,760 584 2,952 24,727 Other senior executives ­resident abroad (7) 24,047 10,304 3,525 1,481 1,044 40,401 Total senior executives 45,132 20,070 8,631 2,070 5,889 81,794 Variable remuneration pertains to the bonus for the 2019/20 and 2018/19 fiscal years respectively, partly paid quarterly during each fiscal year and partly paid in the year after. ELEKTA ANNUAL REPORT 2019/20 115 FINANCIAL REPORTING / NOTES NOTE 7 Salaries, other remuneration and social security costs, cont. Share based payment performance level is reached or exceeded, the allocation will As per April 30, 2020, Elekta has three outstanding share proamount to (and will not exceed) the maximum number of grams. The share program performance share plan 2016/19, performance shares. If performance is below the maximum which was outstanding as per April 30, 2019, has expired level but above the minimum level, a proportionate allocation during the year. of shares will be made. No allocation will be made if perforThe total number of shares that may be allotted under the mance is below the minimum level. The allotment of shares share programs is 1,097,824 (957,074) B-shares. The share probetween minimum and maximum level is linear. grams are secured by delivery of shares already held or repurThe financial targets for performance share plan 2019 are chased by Elekta and, consequently, no new shares will be defined as Total Shareholder Return (TSR) relative to the issued under the share programs. Share programs awarded to OMXS30 Index over a three-year period. The minimum perforemployees have a potential dilution effect. However, certain mance requirement is that Elekta TSR outperform the performance targets must be met for dilution to occur and OMXS30 Index with at least +0,1 per cent. The maximum perthis was not the case at the closing date. formance level requires that Elekta TSR outperform the The share-related incentive programs are reported in accorOMXS30 Index at or above +15 per cent. If the minimum perdance with IFRS 2 Share-based payments. The recognized formance level is reached, the allocation will amount up to costs related to the share programs amounted to SEK –4 M (and will not exceed) 30 per cent of annual base salary at the (9), whereof social security amounted to SEK –1 M (2). See beginning of the fiscal year 2019/2020. The actual minimum page 90 for more information. value for each participant will be subject to an individual performance evaluation for the past fiscal year. If the maximum Share programs performance level is reached or exceeded, the allocation will The AGM has for a number of years resolved to adopt share amount to (and will not exceed) the maximum number of programs called performance share plans. Performance share performance shares. If performance is below the maximum plan 2016/19, resolved by the AGM in 2016, expired during the level but above the minimum level, a proportionate allocation year. For information on the program see the annual report of shares will be made. No allocation will be made if perfor2018/19 page 90. Outstanding programs as per April 30 2020 mance is below the minimum level. were performance share plan 2017/20, 2018/21 and 2019/22 respectively. The performance share plans cover approxiThe terms of the performance share programs, 2017, 2018 and mately 11 (2017/20), 180 (2018/21) and 28 (2019/22) key employ2019 further state that: ees of the Group respectively. The performance share plans • The performance targets may be adjusted should an event entitle the participants to obtain, free of charge, B-shares in occur that affects the operations of the Company or the Elekta upon fulfillment of certain performance requirements. number of outstanding Elekta shares or otherwise affecting The main terms of the performance share programs are: the performance targets and deemed relevant by the board. • A performance share award shall entitle a participant to • The performance targets will be finally evaluated at the end receive, subject to the terms and conditions set forth in the of the applicable performance period and each participant performance share plans 2017, 2018 and 2019 and applicable will receive the number of shares he/she is entitled to award agreements, a number of B-shares based upon the according to the participant’s award agreement depending attainment of performance targets over a three-year peron the attainment of the applicable performance targets formance period over the performance period • Each performance share award shall be subject to forfei• The value that a participant can receive in settlement of ture in the event of termination of employment due to a the performance share award is maximized at 400 percent reason other than death, disability or retirement or failure of the value of the shares at the date of grant of the perto attain performance targets over the applicable perforformance share award mance period • Potential allotments of shares will take place 2019, September • Performance share awards shall be settled through the 14, 2020, September 14, 2021 and September 16 2022, delivery of shares unless otherwise decided by the board respectively • The number of shares to be allotted will depend on the degree of fulfillment of financial targets Participants shall at allotment of shares receive compensation for any cash dividends paid during the respective threeThe financial targets for performance share plan 2017 are year performance period. defined as average annual percentage growth rate in earnBefore the number of shares to be allotted is finally deterings per share (EPS) during the fiscal year 2017/18 until the fismined, the board shall examine whether the allotment is reacal year 2019/20, versus EPS for the fiscal years 2016/17. Under sonable, taking into consideration the Company’s financial performance share plan 2017/20 the maximum number of results and position, conditions on the stock market and shares will be allotted if the annual average EPS growth is at other circumstances, and if not, as determined by the board, or exceeds 154 percent, no allotment of shares will occur if the reduce the number of shares to be allotted to the lower numannual average EPS growth is below 109 percent and allotber of shares deemed appropriate by the board. Delivery of ment of shares between annual average EPS growth 109 and shares and dividend compensation in settlement of the per154 percent is linear. formance share award shall be made as soon as practicable The financial targets for performance share plan 2018 are following the lapse of the performance period. defined as average annual percentage growth rate in earnings The conditions of the share programs state that the right to per share (EPS) during the fiscal year 2018/19, versus EPS for performance share awards may be settled in other ways than the fiscal year 2017/18. Under performance share plan 2018/21 through the delivery of shares. As per April 30, 2020, there the maximum performance level requires that 2018/19 EPS is were no material obligations to settle in any other way than at least 32 per cent higher than 2017/18 EPS. If the maximum through shares. 116 ELEKTA ANNUAL REPORT 2019/20 Share program 2016/19 1) 2017/20 1) 2018/21 1) 2019/22 2) Originally designated number of shares 280,386 272,379 530,799 410,307 Share price used for calculation of ­theoretical value SEK 77 82 120 64 Allotment of shares 2019-09-14 2020-09-14 2021-09-14 2022-09-16 Number of shares as of April 30, 2019 155,770 272,379 528,925 – Granted during the year – – – 410,307 Cancelled/Expired during the year –99,691 –25,421 –68,761 –19,605 Released during the year –56,079 – – – Number of shares as of April 30, 2020 – 246,958 460,164 390,702 1) Average closing share price of the Elekta class B share on the exchange NASDAQ Stockholm during a period of ten trading days before the day the participants are offered to participate in the program. 2) For the marked-based performance conditions, a Monte Carlo approach has been used to determine the fair value of granted performance shares. NOTE 8 ing consultancy work driven by observations made in the audit engagement. Other services refers to other services/ Depreciation/amortization/write-down consultancy work which are not covered by any of the other Group categories above, e.g. consultancy work related to internal control and acquisitions. SEK M 2019/20 2018/19 Cost of products sold 84 46 Selling expenses 154 132 NOTE 10 Expenses by nature Administrative expenses 250 65 R&D expenses 786 700 Total 1,275 943 In the income statement costs are broken down by function. The implementation of IFRS 16 contributed to SEK 232 M of Operating expenses amount to SEK 12,945 M (11,859). Below, the increase compared to last fiscal year, see note 17. operating expenses are b ­ roken down by nature: Write-down of tangible assets amounted to SEK 3 M and Group intangible assets to SEK 8 M. SEK M 2019/20 2018/19 Products, materials and consumables 5,505 5,263 NOTE 9 Personnel costs 4,344 3,898 Remunerations to auditors Depreciation and amortization (Notes 8, 16, 17 and 18) 1,275 943 Group Parent Company Operating lease fees – 256 SEK M 2019/20 2018/19 2019/20 2018/19 Other expenses 1,820 1,499 Total 12,945 11,859 Group auditor (EY/PwC)1) Audit engagements 9 12 4 5 NOTE 11 Audit-related services 0 0 – – Tax consultancy 1 0 0 – Other services – 1 – 1 Income from participations Total Group auditor 10 13 4 6 in Group companies Other auditors Audit engagements 1 0 – – Parent Company Audit-related services 1 – 0 – SEK M 2019/20 2018/19 Tax consultancy 5 5 1 1 Other services 1 1 0 – Dividends from subsidiaries 496 605 Total other auditors 8 6 2 1 Group Contribution – 138 Total 19 19 5 6 Divestment of shares in subsidiaries – 40 Write down in shares in subsidiaries –199 – 1) P wC was appointed auditors for the period until the 2019 Annual General Meeting. EY was elected as auditor at the Annual General Meeting. Total 297 783 Audit engagements refers to remuneration to auditors for work related to the statutory audit, including audit of the annual report and the accounting records, the administration of the Board of Directors and the CEO as well as audit consultancy work directly linked to the audit assignment. Audit-­ related services comprises quality assurance services, includELEKTA ANNUAL REPORT 2019/20 117 FINANCIAL REPORTING / NOTES NOTE 12 NOTE 15 Net financial items Taxes Accounting principles Group SEK M 2019/20 2018/19 The tax expense in the income statement includes all tax that Income from participations in associates –4 8 is to be paid or received for the current year, adjustments Write-down loan in associates 0 –5 relating to previous years’ current tax, and changes in Income from participations in a ­ ssociates & deferred tax. Deferred tax is calculated and reported in accorother companies –4 3 dance with the balance sheet method. In accordance with this method, deferred tax is calculated on the basis of the Interest income, external 63 65 temporary differences between the tax bases and the carryOther financial income 1 1 ing amounts of assets and liabilities. Deferred tax assets Financial income 63 66 relating to loss carry-forwards and other future tax credits are Interest expenses, other external loans –163 –156 recognized to the extent it is probable that deductions can be Interest expenses, lease liabilities –51 – made against future profits. Valuation is based on nominal Other financial expenses 1) –52 –29 amounts based on the tax rules prevailing in each country Financial expenses –266 –186 and the anticipated tax rate for the following year in each Exchange rate differences on financial country. Deferred taxes relating to temporary differences ­instruments 4 2 attributable to investments in subsidiaries are not recognized Net financial items –203 –116 in the consolidated financial statements since Elekta AB, in all 1) Other financial expenses mainly consist of bank charges. cases, can control the time of reversal of the temporary differences and it is not considered probable that such a reversal will occur in the foreseeable future. Deferred tax assets and NOTE 13 deferred tax liabilities are offset when there is a legal right to do so and when the deferred tax amounts concern the same Interest income, interest expense tax authority. For items recognized in profit or loss, the and ­similar items related tax effects are also recognized in profit or loss. For items recognized in other comprehensive income, related tax Parent Company effects are also recognized in other comprehensive income. SEK M 2019/20 2018/19 Estimates and assessments Interest income from subsidiaries 174 139 Deferred tax assets and deferred tax liabilities are balance Interest income, external 45 53 sheet items which are subject to estimates and assessments. Interest income and similar items 220 192 Deferred tax is calculated on ­temporary differences between Interest expenses to subsidiaries –17 –20 the carrying amounts and the tax values of assets and liabiliInterest expenses, other external loans –158 –153 ties. Estimates and assessments affect the recognized Other financial expenses –20 –18 deferred tax amounts in the determination of the carrying Interest expenses and similar items – 195 –191 amounts of the ­different assets and liabilities, and also through forecasts regarding future taxable profits in those cases where a future utilization of deferred tax assets depends on future taxable profits. Deferred taxes amounted to a net NOTE 14 liability of SEK 41 M (184), whereof assets SEK 504 M (402) and Appropriations and untaxed reserves liabilities SEK 545 M (587). Parent Company Income taxes Appropriations Untaxed reserves Group Parent Company SEK M 2019/20 2018/19 2019/20 2018/19 SEK M 2019/20 2018/19 2019/20 2018/19 Tax allocation reserve 14 –14 – 14 Current taxes –447 –331 – – Total 14 –14 – 14 Current tax adjustments for prior years 27 –22 –2 – Deferred taxes 50 –28 38 3 Total –370 –382 36 3 Swedish tax 21% 22% Effect of other tax rates for foreign companies 5% 4% Change in tax legislation 0% 0% Tax, current and deferred, related to prior years 0% –1% Other –1% –1% Tax rate 25% 24% 118 ELEKTA ANNUAL REPORT 2019/20 Current tax, net (liability +/receivable –) Group Parent Company SEK M 2019/20 2018/19 2019/20 2018/19 Opening balance, May 1 8 –71 –17 –16 Business combinations 0 –1 – – Reclassifications –63 –11 – – Adjustment for prior years –27 23 2 – Current tax for the year 447 331 – – Paid taxes –261 –269 –2 –1 Translation differences 5 6 – – Closing balance, April 30 108 8 –17 –17 Deferred tax assets and deferred tax liabilities Deferred tax assets/liabilities in the balance sheet are attributable to the following: Group Assets (+) Liabilities (–) Net SEK M April 30, 2020 April 30, 2019 April 30, 2020 April 30, 2019 April 30, 2020 April 30, 2019 Loss carry-forwards 198 145 – – 198 145 Untaxed reserves 0 0 0 0 0 0 Intangible assets 1 1 –680 –756 –679 –755 Tangible fixed assets 14 22 –52 –44 –38 –22 Right of use assets 15 – – – 15 – Financial assets /liabilities 32 16 –4 –10 28 6 Other assets 284 250 –83 –27 201 223 Other liabilities 239 226 –5 –7 234 219 Deferred tax assets/tax liabilities 783 660 –824 –844 –41 –184 Offsetting –279 –258 279 258 0 – Net deferred tax assets/tax liabilities 504 402 –545 –587 –41 –184 Deferred tax assets (+)/liabilities (–), net Tax relating to components of other ­comprehensive income SEK M Group, net Parent Company, net Group Parent Company Opening balance May 1, 2018 –162 0 SEK M 2019/20 2018/19 2019/20 2018/19 Business combinations 0 – Reclassifications 0 – Revaluation of defined ­benefit pension plans 2 0 – – Adjustment for prior years 9 – Revaluation of cash-flow Change in tax legislations 0 – hedges –7 19 – – Deferred taxes for the year –37 3 Net gain/loss on equity Deferred taxes charged in other instruments designated at comprehensive income 19 – fair value 22 – – – Translation differences –14 – Total 18 19 – – Closing balance April 30, 2019 –184 3 Business combinations 0 – Reclassifications 32 – Adjustment for prior years –26 – Change in tax legislations 0 – Deferred taxes for the year 87 38 Deferred taxes charged in other comprehensive income 17 – Translation differences 33 – Closing balance April 30, 2020 –41 41 The Group has tax loss carry forwards of approximately SEK 369 M (349) for which deferred tax assets have not been recognized. These tax loss carry forwards have long or indefinite periods of utilization and are subject to regular assessment of whether it is probable that deductions can be made against future profits. ELEKTA ANNUAL REPORT 2019/20 119 FINANCIAL REPORTING / NOTES NOTE 16 Impairment The carrying amount of a depreciated asset is tested for Intangible assets impairment whenever there are indications that the carrying amount might not be recoverable. If there are indications of Accounting principles impairment, the asset’s recoverable amount is calculated. Intangible assets contain goodwill, capitalized development The recoverable amount consists of the higher of the value in costs, customer contracts, customer relationships and other use of the asset in operations and the value that would be intangible assets. Other intangible assets mainly consist of received if the asset was sold to a third party, the net realizacquired technology. Amortization of intangible assets is able value. Value in use consists of all incoming and outgoing reported in the income statement and allocated to functions payments attributable to the asset during the period it is as applicable. There are no intangible assets related to manuexpected to be used in operations, plus the net realizable facturing processes or the like, therefore no amortization is value at the end of the useful life. If the calculated recoverallocated to cost of goods sold. able amount is less than the carrying amount, impairment is made to the asset’s recoverable amount. An impairment loss Goodwill recognized in previous periods is reversed if the reasons for Goodwill comprises the positive amount by which the sum of the impairment no longer exist. However, a reversal will not (i) the cost of shares in subsidiaries, (ii) the value of non-conbe higher than the carrying amount would have been if an trolling interest and (iii) the fair value of previously held equity impairment loss had not been recognized in previous periods. interest exceeds the fair value of the Group’s share of Goodwill is subject to annual impairment testing even if acquired identifiable net assets at acquisition. Goodwill is carthere are no indications of impairment. The carrying amount ried at cost less accumulated impairment losses. Goodwill is of goodwill is allocated to cash generating units. When testtested for impairment on an annual basis, or more frequently ing for impairment of goodwill, the assets are grouped in if indicated. See also ­section Impairment. cash-generating units and assessments are made on the basis of these units’ future cash flows. Impairment losses on Research and development goodwill are not reversed. Research costs are expensed as they are incurred. In those All impairment losses, and any reversals of the same, are instances in which it is difficult to distinguish between the recognized in the income statement. research phase and the development phase in a project, the entire project is considered as research and is expensed as Estimates and assessment incurred. Identifiable costs for the development of new prodFor the Group, the most significant estimates and assumpucts are capitalized to the extent that these are considered to tions are those relating to impairment testing of goodwill. provide future economic benefits. In other instances, developThis means that the effect on the financial reports may be ment expenditures are expensed as they are incurred. Costs considerable if the estimates and assessments made would for development once reported in the income statement are prove to deviate significantly from the actual outcome. In never capitalized in future periods. Capitalized expenditures connection with impairment testing of goodwill the carrying are amortized on a straight-line basis from the time when the amount is compared with the recoverable amount. The recovasset is available for use, which normally occurs when it is erable amount is determined by the higher of an asset’s net produced commercially, and during the estimated useful life realizable value and its value in use. Normally, it is not possiof the asset. The amortization period is 3–5 years. ble to determine the net realizable value. Therefore, the value in use is normally the value being compared with the carrying Customer relations and other intangible assets amount. Thus, each cash generating unit’s value in use is calIntangible assets also include technology, brands, customer culated in assessing any impairment of goodwill. Calculations relations, e­ tcetera. In conjunction with the acquisition of such are performed through discounting future estimated cash assets, the acquisition values are reported as assets, which flows. In order to perform the calculations a number of are amortized on a straight line basis over the estimated useassumptions concerning future circumstances and estimates ful life. Surplus value in acquired order backlog is also of parameters are made, for example growth and discount reported as other intangible assets. rate. Any adjustments of the assumptions made could have an effect on the carrying amount of the goodwill. Assuming a Amortization periods: lower growth rate would lead to a lower recoverable amount. A higher discount rate would also lead to a lower recoverable Technology 5–11 years amount. Goodwill amounted to SEK 6,311 M (5,914). Brands 6–10 years Customer relations 10–20 years Order backlog 0.5–1 year 120 ELEKTA ANNUAL REPORT 2019/20 Intangible assets Group Parent Company Capitalized Other development Customer intangible Total Other intanTotal ­Parent SEK M Goodwill costs relationships assets Group gible assets Company Accumulated acquisition value May 1, 2019 5,905 5,103 1,677 1,063 13,748 91 91 Business combinations 334 – – 35 369 – – Purchases /Capitalization – 563 – 3 566 – – Divestments /Disposals – 0 – – 0 – – Translation differences 63 96 –5 18 172 – – Accumulated acquisition value April 30, 2020 6,302 5,762 1,672 1,118 14,854 91 91 Accumulated amortization & impairment May 1, 2019 9 –2,886 –741 –829 –4,447 –31 –31 Reclassifications – – – 0 0 – – Divestments /Disposals – 0 – – 0 – – Amortization for the year – –738 –95 –24 –857 –7 –7 Impairment for the year – –8 – – –8 – – Translation differences 0 –56 1 –18 –74 – – Accumulated amortization & impairment April 30, 2020 9 –3,687 –836 –871 –5,385 –38 –38 Carrying amount April 30, 2020 6,311 2,074 837 247 9,469 53 53 Accumulated acquisition value May 1, 2018 5,610 4,389 1,638 1,045 12,682 91 91 Reclassifications – 8 – – 8 – – Business combinations 82 – – – 82 – – Purchases /Capitalization – 456 – 2 458 – – Divestments /Disposals 0 –9 – –31 –40 – – Translation differences 213 258 39 47 557 – – Accumulated acquisition value April 30, 2019 5,905 5,103 1,677 1,063 13,748 91 91 Accumulated amortization & impairment May 1, 2018 –3 –2,089 –623 –792 –3,507 –24 –24 Reclassifications – 0 – – 0 – – Divestments /Disposals – 0 – 31 31 – – Amortization for the year – –664 –94 –24 –781 –7 –7 Translation differences 12 –132 –24 –44 –189 – – Accumulated amortization & impairment April 30, 2019 9 –2,886 –741 –829 –4,447 –31 –31 Carrying amount April 30, 2019 5,914 2,217 936 233 9,301 60 60 Other intangible assets mainly relates to technology acquired Goodwill by segment through business combinations. Capitalized development costs comprise capitalized expenditure for research and development SEK M April 30, 2020 April 30, 2019 as well as other capitalized development costs such as software. Total capitalized development costs amounted to SEK North and South America 2,430 2,083 563 M (456) for the year whereof capitalization of developEurope, Middle East and Africa 2,066 2,041 ment costs within R&D represented SEK 555 M (453). Asia Pacific 1,815 1,789 Total 6,311 5,914 Impairment testing Goodwill is tested for impairment every year in order to assure The value in use for each unit is derived from discounted cash that the ­carrying amount of each of the Group’s cash-generflows, based on estimated future cash flows. The estimates ating units is not higher than its recoverable amount. The are based on the financial budget for the next fiscal year as Group’s cash-generating units equal the g ­ eographic regions, determined by the executive management, and expected which also constitute the Group’s o ­ perating segments. The future development up to five years. Assumptions regarding carrying amount equals capital employed and the recoverable sales volume, sales prices, operating expenses and product amount for each cash-­generating unit is determined based mix form the basis for estimated future growth and margin on a calculation of value in use for each unit. The allocation development. Volume assumptions are based on historical of goodwill to cash-generating units (­ operating segments) is outcome, the executive management’s expectations on marshown in the following table. ket development, and expected global market growth. Price ELEKTA ANNUAL REPORT 2019/20 121 FINANCIAL REPORTING / NOTES NOTE 16 Intangible assets, cont. assumptions are based on current market trends and inflation by the executive management. The 2020 (2019) test showed forecasts. Margin development is based on current margin that there is no impairment. levels and product mix adjusted for expected price changes Sensitivity analyses have been carried out with regard to and possible changes in the product mix. For periods after the discount rate (risk) and long-term growth with a general five years, the extrapolation of expected cash flows has been reduction in the growth rate after five years of 2 percentage assumed to be a prudent 2 percent (2), which is considerably points (2) (implying an assumption of zero growth) and a lower than the anticipated industry growth. The cash flows general increase in the weighted capital cost of 2 percentage have been discounted using a pre-tax interest rate of 8 perpoints (2). The sensitivity analyses did not demonstrate any cent (8). The interest rate corresponds to the Group’s current impairment. weighted cost of capital (WACC) and is based on current In addition to the annual impairment test, goodwill is market assessments. tested whenever there are indications of impairment. Impairment testing is performed in April/May every year, after the budget and business plans have been determined NOTE 17 Leases Accounting principles applied Right-of-use assets are measured at cost comprising the from May 1, 2019 following: Elekta’s lease contracts mainly consist of contracts for prem• the amount of the initial measurement of the lease liability ises, vehicles and equipment. For premises and equipment, • lease payments made at or before the commencement the group accounts for the lease and non-lease components date less any lease incentives received of a contract separately. Leases are recognized as a right-of• any initial direct costs, and use asset and a corresponding liability at the date at which • an estimate of expected restoration costs the leased asset is available for use by the group. Lease liabilities include the net present value of the following lease payRight-of-use assets are depreciated on a straight-line basis ments: over the shorter of the asset’s useful life and the lease term. If • fixed payments, less any lease incentives receivable the group is reasonably certain to exercise a purchase option, • variable lease payment that are based on an index or a the right-of-use asset is depreciated over the underlying rate, initially measured using the index or rate as at the asset’s useful life. commencement date The group’s lease contracts for premises typically range • amounts expected to be payable by the group under between fixed periods of 1 to 20 years and the vehicle leases ­residual value guarantees usually have a lease term of 3 to 5 years. Elekta has a number • the exercise price of a purchase option if the group is of contracts where the contractual terms include extension ­reasonably certain to exercise that option, and and termination options that are included when it is deter• payments of penalties for terminating the lease, if the lease mined as reasonably certain that they will be exercised. The term reflects the exercise of that option. assessment of reasonable certainty is only revised if a significant event or a significant change in circumstances occurs. The lease payments are discounted using the group’s increWhen adjustments to lease payments or reassessments of mental borrowing rate, since the interest rate implicit in the the lease term are conducted, the lease liability is remeasured lease cannot be readily determined. The incremental borrowing and adjusted against the right-of-use asset. The group rate is the rate that the individual lessee would have to pay to remeasures the lease liability using a revised discount rate if borrow the funds necessary to obtain an asset of similar value the lease term is reassessed. to the right-of-use asset in a similar economic environment The group is exposed to potential future increases in variwith similar terms, security and conditions. To determine the able lease payments based on an index or rate, which are not incremental borrowing rate the group uses a risk-free interest included in the lease liability until they take effect. rate and adjusts for credit risk as well as specific adjustments Payments associated with short-term leases and low-value for different durations and currencies. assets are recognized on a straight-line basis as an expense in Lease payments are allocated between amortization of the the income statement. Short-term leases are leases with a lease liability and interest expenses. The interest expense is lease term of less than 12 months. The group does not apply charged to the income statement over the lease term to proIFRS 16 to intangible assets. duce a constant periodic rate of interest on the remaining Provided that Elekta’s operations continue to the current balance of the lease liability for each period. extent, future lease commitments are deemed to be in par with current commitments. 122 ELEKTA ANNUAL REPORT 2019/20 As of April 30, 2020 the balance sheet shows the following Accounting Principles applied amounts related to leases: until April 30, 2019 The lease of tangible assets, for which the Group is essentially Right-of-use assets responsible for the same risks and benefits as it would be in SEK M Premises Vehicles Total the case of direct ownership, is classified as finance lease. The leased asset is reported as a fixed asset and the correspondOpening accumulated acquisition value ing obligation to pay a lease fee is reported as an interest-­ May 1, 2019 1,142 100 1,242 bearing liability. The lease payments are distributed between Reclassification finance leases amortization of the liability and financial expense, so that under IAS 17, previously ­presented as Tangible fixed assets – 11 11 each reporting period is charged with an interest amount Additions1) 116 24 140 corresponding to a fixed interest rate on the reported liability Terminations – 0 0 during each period. The leased asset is depreciated in accorReclassifications –9 – –9 dance with the same principles that apply to owned assets of Translation differences 11 –1 10 the same type. If any uncertainty exists about whether the Accumulated acquisition value asset will be taken over at the end of the lease period, the April 30, 2020 1,260 134 1,394 asset is depreciated over the lease period, if this is shorter. Lease of assets, for which the lessor, for all practical purOpening balance accumulated ­depreciation May 1 2019 – – – poses, is considered the owner, is classified as operating lease. Reclassification finance leases The lease fee is expensed on a straight-line basis over the under IAS 17, previously ­presented lease period. The Group has mainly operating leases. There as Tangible fixed assets – –6 –6 are few finance leases, see Note 18. Depreciation for the year –189 –43 –232 Terminations – 0 0 Lease commitments under IAS 17 Translation differences –1 0 –1 Group Accumulated depreciation April 30, 2020 –190 –49 –239 SEK M 2018/19 Carrying amount April 30, 2020 1,070 86 1,156 Leasing fees paid during the year 256 1) A  dditions includes new lease contracts, index-adjustments and remeasurements. Nominal value of agreed future ­leasing fees: For maturity analysis of lease liabilities, see note 2. As at April Due for payment within 1 year 229 30, 2019 Finance lease liabilities was presented as SEK 6 M, Due for payment after 1 year but within 5 years 628 see note 27. Due for payment after more than 5 years 602 Amounts recognized in the income Total 1,459 ­statement Leasing fees paid by the Parent Company during the year SEK M 2019/20 amounted to SEK 308 K. Future leasing fees due for payment Depreciation for the year 232 within one year amount to SEK 281 K, after 1 year but within Interest expense (included in finance cost) 51 5 years SEK 99 K. Expense relating to short-term leases (included in cost The operating lease contracts are mainly contracts for of goods sold and administrative expenses) 3 premises where the business is conducted. Expense relating to leases of low-value assets that are not shown above as short-term leases (included in administrative expenses) 15 Total 301 No material variable lease payments not included in the lease liability has been identified. Low-value assets comprise small items such as printers and coffee machines. The total cash outflow for leases during fiscal year 2019/20 was SEK 256 M. ELEKTA ANNUAL REPORT 2019/20 123 FINANCIAL REPORTING / NOTES NOTE 18 Tangible fixed assets Accounting principles Tangible assets acquired by Group companies are reported at 3 and 5 years. Installations and improvements on third party cost, less accumulated depreciation and any write-downs. property are depreciated over the period of the lease agreeAssets in acquired com­panies are reported at fair value on ment. the acquisition date after deduction of subsequent accumuThe residual value of assets and their useful economic lives lated depreciation. Machinery and equipment is d ­ epreciated are reviewed annually and adjusted as required, see Note 16 on a straight-line basis during its economic life of between for impairment principles. See Note 17 for right of use assets. Tangible fixed assets Machinery Equipment, etc for tools and Finance lease SEK M ­production ­installations equipment Buildings Total Accumulated acquisition value May 1, 2019 323 1,687 11 233 2,254 Reclassifications 0 9 – 0 9 Reclassification to right of use assets, IFRS 16 – – –11 – –11 Business combinations – 0 – – 0 Purchases 50 143 – 3 196 Divestments /Disposals –2 –28 – – –30 Translation differences –1 8 – –1 5 Accumulated acquisition value April 30, 2020 370 1,818 – 235 2,423 Accumulated depreciation and impairment May 1, 2019 –216 –998 –6 –78 –1,297 Reclassifications –4 –5 – – –9 Reclassification to right of use assets, IFRS 16 – – 6 – 6 Divestments /Disposals 1 27 – – 29 Depreciation for the year –27 –132 – –13 –173 Impairment for the year –1 –2 – – –3 Translation differences 0 –8 – 1 –7 Accumulated depreciation and impairment April 30, 2020 –246 –1,118 – –91 –1,455 Carrying amount April 30, 2020 124 700 – 144 968 Accumulated acquisition value May 1, 2018 288 1,559 10 224 2,081 Reclassifications –2 –21 0 –1 –24 Purchases 36 154 3 9 201 Divestments /Disposals –6 –73 –2 –3 –83 Translation differences 6 67 0 5 78 Accumulated acquisition value April 30, 2019 323 1,687 11 233 2,254 Accumulated depreciation and impairment May 1, 2018 –195 –919 –6 –67 –1,186 Reclassifications 0 15 – – 16 Divestments /Disposals 5 71 2 3 80 Depreciation for the year –23 –125 –1 –12 –162 Translation differences –4 –40 0 –2 –46 Accumulated depreciation and impairment April 30, 2019 –216 –998 –6 –78 –1,298 Carrying amount April 30, 2019 107 689 5 156 957 Tangible fixed assets by country SEK M 2019/20 2018/19 Sweden 74 66 United Kingdom 432 463 China 147 150 Netherlands 114 105 USA 124 99 Other countries 77 74 Total 968 957 124 ELEKTA ANNUAL REPORT 2019/20 NOTE 19 Shares in subsidiaries Parent Company SEK M 2019/20 2018/19 Opening balance May 1 2,439 2,239 Divestments – –44 Shareholder contributions 38 244 Write-down –226 – Closing balance April 30 2,251 2,439 Carrying Interest, amount, Company Corp. id. no. Domicile No. of shares % SEK M Elekta Instrument AB 556492-0949 Stockholm, Sweden 1,000,000 100.0 50 Leksell Institute AB 556942-6314 Stockholm, Sweden 50,000 100.0 0 Elekta Solutions AB 559157-5286 Stockholm, Sweden 50,000 100.0 200 Elekta KK 65 820 Tokyo, Japan 2,000 100.0 36 Elekta Holding Limited 2699176 Crawley, England 22,810,695 100.0 494 Elekta Holdings US Inc. 58-1876545 Norcross, USA 6,020 100.0 432 Elekta Ltd. R889657862 Montreal, Canada 1 100.0 229 Elekta Asia Ltd 502 493 Hong Kong, S.A.R. 81,022,160 100.0 13 Elekta Instrument (Shanghai) Ltd 310115764250077 Shanghai, China 1 100.0 50 Elekta BMEI (Beijing) Medical ­Equipment Co., Ltd 91110114400615135X Beijing, China 0 100.0 230 Elekta China Investment Co., Ltd 91310115MA1K47TB2R Shanghai, China 0 100.0 44 Elekta Pty Limited ACN 109 006 966 Sydney, Australia 1 100.0 1 Elekta Medical System India Private ­Limited U33112DL2005PTC139794 New Delhi, India 10,000 100.0 31 Elekta SA B 414 404 913 Paris, France 2,493 100.0 4 Elekta Medical SA A-818 867 31 Madrid, Spain 10,000 100.0 3 Elekta GmbH HRB 63500 Hamburg, Germany 0 100.0 0 Medical Intelligence Medizintechnik GmbH HRB 14835 Schwabmünchen, ­Germany 0 100.0 0 Elekta GmbH FN 166018w Innsbruck, Austria 1 100.0 3 Elekta Hellas EPE 998 569 196 Athens, Greece 0 100.0 0 Elekta S.A./N.V. HRB 613 484 Zaventem, Belgium 250 100.0 1 Elekta BV 17 097 384 Best, The Netherlands 40 100.0 0 Elekta S.p.A. 02723670960 Agrate Brianza (MI), Italy 500,000 100.0 66 Elekta Medical Systems Comercio e ­Servicos para Radiologia, Radiocirurgia e Radioterapia LTDA. CNPJ 09.528.196/0001-66 Sao Paolo, Brazil 0 100.0 73 Elekta (Pty) Ltd 2000/018814/07 Pretoria, South Africa 1 100.0 0 Elekta Pte Ltd 20090927AZ Singapore, Singapore 10,000 100.0 0 Elekta Limited, South Korea 1311111-0259 Seongnam-si, South Korea 473,879 100.0 16 Elekta Services S.R.O 292 80 095 Brno, Czech Republic 0 100.0 0 Elekta Medikal Sistemler Ticaret A.S. 196757 Istanbul, Turkey 87,900,000 100.0 87 Elekta Medical SA de CV EME140919G49 Mexico City, Mexico 50 100.0 57 Elekta sp.Z.O.O KRS 0000538192 Warsaw, Poland 2,000 100.0 104 Elekta Company Limited 106810452 Hanoi, Vietnam 1 100.0 2 Elekta Business Services sp.Z.O.O KRS 000567549 Warsaw, Poland 1 100.0 1 Elekta SARL Algeria 16236978051 Dely Ibrahim, Algeria 0 100.0 0 Elekta LLC 7704369566 Moscow, Russian federation 0 100.0 11 RRTS Unipessoal Lda 514185155 Lisbon, Portugal 0 100.0 13 Total 2,251 ELEKTA ANNUAL REPORT 2019/20 125 FINANCIAL REPORTING / NOTES NOTE 20 Shares in associates Accounting principles Associates are companies which are not subsidiaries but in in the con­solidated balance sheet. The carrying amount is which the Group has a significant, but not controlling, interadjusted for the share of associates’ earnings after the acquiest. This normally means com­panies in which the holding repsition date. Dividends from associates are reported as a resents more than 20 percent but less than 50 percent of the reduction of the carrying amount. Income from partici­pations voting rights. Associates are reported by use of the equity in associates is a separate line in the income statement. method. Holdings in associates are initially recognized at cost Shares in associates Group Parent Company SEK M 2019/20 2018/19 2019/20 2018/19 Opening balance May 1 57 42 6 – Investments 0 6 0 6 Participations in income of associates (Note 12) –4 8 – – Dividends –10 –3 – – Reclassification 1) –11 – – – Translation differences 2 4 – – Closing balance April 30 34 57 6 6 1) Of which SEK –13M relates to the investment in PalabraApps LLC that has been reclassified to shares in subsidiaries since Elekta, on February 14, 2020 acquired the remaining 66.7% shares. NOTE 21 NOTE 22 Other financial assets Inventories Accounting principles Group Parent Company April 30, April 30, April 30, April 30, SEK M 2020 2019 2020 2019 Inventories are valued in accordance with the ’first in, first out’ principle and at the lower of cost and net realizable Participations in other companies 297 60 293 58 value. Internal profits arising from deliveries between Group Derivative financial instruments 9 0 – – companies are eliminated upon consolidation. Loan receivables 14 14 – – Contractual receivables 355 334 – – Inventories Group Other non-current receivables 40 43 27 23 SEK M April 30, 2020 April 30, 2019 Total 714 451 320 81 Components 391 299 The table below presents detailed information regarding the Work in progress 47 76 Group’s participations in other companies. Finished goods 2,310 2,259 Total 2,748 2,634 Participations in other companies Group Parent Company Write-down of inventories during the year amounted to SEK April 30, April 30, April 30, April 30, 86 M (88). In the income statement this is reported as cost of SEK M 2020 2019 2020 2019 products sold. Opening balance May 1 60 3 58 – Investments 343 58 343 58 Revaluation through other NOTE 23 ­comprehensive income Revaluation –104 – – – –107 – – – Accounts receivable and contract assets Reclassifications –2 – – – Translation differences 0 0 – – Estimates and assessment Closing balance April 30 297 60 293 58 Accounts receivable is one of the most significant items in the balance sheet and is carried at nominal value net after provisions for bad debts. Accounts receivable amounted to SEK 3,379 M (3,455) including expected credit losses of SEK 198 M (229). See Note 2 for further information regarding the credit risk in accounts receivable. See Note 3 for accounting principles. From 1 May 2018 Elekta applies the simplified approach for measuring expected credit losses for accounts receivables and contract assets, in accordance to IFRS 9. For all account 126 ELEKTA ANNUAL REPORT 2019/20 receivables overdue more than 90 days and with a value of Provision for bad debt contract assets more than SEK 1 M an individual evaluation is made and when necessary a specific provision is applied. For all non-due and Group overdue receivables not covered by a specific provision a genSEK M 2019/20 2018/19 eral provision is calculated based on region and aging. The general provision is calculated as a percentage of the receivOpening balance May 1 –11 –10 able and the percentage used is based on historical loss Adjustment due to IFRS 9 – –24 ­experience, current conditions and forward-looking economic Provisions 0 0 conditions for each region. As of April 30, 2020, the general Reversals 10 14 provision is SEK 85 M and the specific provision amounted to Reclassification to accounts receivable – 10 SEK 113 M. Final write off of a receivable is done when no further Translation differences 0 0 actions are taken to collect on the receivable and probability Closing balance April 30 –1 –11 of collection is deemed to be zero, e.g. bankruptcy. The contract asset relates to unbilled work in progress and are considered to have the same risk characteristics as nondue accounts receivables. An individual evaluation is made NOTE 24 for contract assets over 180 days and with a value of more Other current receivables than SEK 5 M. Group Contract assets amounted to SEK 1,526 M (1,401) including SEK M April 30, 2020 April 30, 2019 expected credit losses of SEK 1 M (11). Prepayments to suppliers 167 100 Credit risk analysis of accounts receivable Other receivables 554 473 Group Prepaid expenses 487 485 April 30, 2020 April 30, 2019 Total 1,208 1,059 SEK M Gross Reserv Total Gross Reserv Total Parent Company SEK M April 30, 2020 April 30, 2019 Not due 1,835 –4 1,831 1,902 –2 1,900 Overdue Derivative financial instruments 49 61 1–30 days 458 –1 457 474 –1 473 Current tax assets 17 17 Overdue Other receivables 5 12 31–60 days 176 –1 175 216 –1 215 Prepaid expenses 10 12 Overdue 61–90 days 181 –4 177 189 –4 185 Total 81 102 Overdue > 90 days 928 –188 740 901 –221 680 NOTE 25 Total accounts receivables, net 3,578 –198 3,379 3,684 –229 3,455 Cash and cash equivalents Credit risk analysis of accounts receivable and short-term investments measured at fair value through other ­comprehensive income Group Parent Company April 30, April 30, April 30, April 30, SEK M Gross Provision Total SEK M 2020 2019 2020 2019 Not due 50 0 50 Current investments Overdue 1–30 days 6 0 6 classified as cash equivalents 1,241 1,716 1,304 1,716 Overdue 31–60 days 6 0 6 Short-term Overdue 61–90 days – – – investments 62 45 – 45 Overdue > 90 days 3 0 3 Cash and bank 5,166 2,357 4,084 1,225 Total accounts ­ Total 6,470 4,119 5,387 2,986 receivables, net 65 0 65 Available cash and cash equivalents and short-term investProvision for bad debt accounts receivable ments amounted to SEK 6,462 M (4,111) which is cash and Group cash equivalents and short-term investments reduced by SEK M 2019/20 2018/19 bank balances included in assets pledged. See Note 32. Opening balance May 1 –229 –152 Adjustment due to IFRS 9 – –25 Provisions –127 –71 Reversals 32 1 Realized loss 124 35 Reclassification from contract assets – –10 Translation differences 1 –6 Closing balance April 30 –198 –229 ELEKTA ANNUAL REPORT 2019/20 127 FINANCIAL REPORTING / NOTES NOTE 26 Equity Number of shares in Elekta AB (publ) A-shares B-shares Total Share capital Number of shares May 1, 2018 14,980,769 368,587,640 383,568,409 191,784,205 Number of shares April 30, 2019 14,980,769 368,587,640 383,568,409 191,784,205 of which treasury shares – 1,541,368 1,541,368 Number of shares May 1, 2019 14,980,769 368,587,640 383,568,409 191,784,205 Number of shares April 30, 2020 14,980,769 368,587,640 383,568,409 191,784,205 of which treasury shares – 1,485,289 1,485,289 refusal. All series A-shares are currently owned by Laurent Appropriation of profit Leksell via company. The dividend paid out during the finanAmount to be paid to the shareholders SEK 343,874,808 cial year amounted to a total sum of SEK 688 M, correspondAmount to be carried forward by the ing to SEK 1.80 per share. At the AGM on August 26, 2020, a Parent Company SEK 1,654,303,650 dividend of SEK 0.90 per share for the year 2019/20 – a total Total non-restricted equity of the sum of approximately SEK 344 M will be proposed. The averParent Company SEK 1,998,178,458 age number of shares before and after dilution during the year, rounded to the nearest thousand, was 382,062 thousand All shares have a par value of SEK 0.50 and provide the hold(382,027). The number of repurchased shares on April 30, ers with equal rights to the Company’s assets and earnings. 2020, totaled 1,485,289 B-shares (1,541,368). The share proAll shares are entitled to dividends s­ ubsequently issued. One gram awarded to employees have a potential dilution effect. series A-share entitles the holder to 10 votes and one series Certain performance targets must be met for dilution to B-share to one vote. In accordance with ­section 12 of the artioccur and this was not the case at the closing date. cles of a ­ ssociation, series A-shares are subject to right of first For more information on the Elekta share, see page 34. NOTE 27 Interest-bearing liabilities Specification by currency Group Parent Company Liability amount SEK M April 30, April 30, April 30, April 30, April 30, April 30, April 30, April 30, SEK M 2020 2019 2020 2019 Currency 2020 2019 2020 2019 Bond loan 2,496 1,998 2,496 1,998 Swedish kronor, SEK M 5,296 2,500 5,296 2,498 Liabilities to credit US dollar, USD M 100 100 984 949 ­institutions 5,606 2,555 5,547 2,555 British Pound, GBP M 143 90 1,763 1,106 Liabilities to ­subsidiaries – – 4,283 3,934 Chinese Yuan, CNY M 42 – 59 – Lease liabilities 1) 1,256 6 – – Polish Zloty, PLN M – 2 – 5 Total 9,358 4,558 12,327 8,487 Brazilian real, BRL M – 0 – 0 Maturity term structure, South African rand, ZAR M – 1 – 1 external loans Total 8,102 4,558 <1 year 1,001 1,000 942 1,000 >1 year–<3 years 2,731 3,084 2,731 3,079 Fixed interest term including effects >3 years–<5 years 3,489 475 3,489 475 of derivatives >5 years 881 – 881 – April 30, 2020 April 30, 2019 Total 8,102 4,558 8,043 4,533 1) Lease liabilities as of May 1, 2019 have increased with SEK 1,319 M due to the adoption < 1 year 6,238 1,000 of IFRS 16. > 1 year < 3 years 491 3,084 > 3 year < 5 years 491 475 > 5 years 881 – Total 8,102 4,558 128 ELEKTA ANNUAL REPORT 2019/20 NOTE 28 Pension plans Elekta has defined benefit pension plans for certain employees Provisions in a few countries. Most common is however defined contribution plans. Total pension costs for the Group amounted to Accounting principles SEK 240 M (254) of which SEK 20 M (16) relate to defined benProvisions efit pension plans (see Note 7). Provisions are reported when the Group has, or is considered to have, an ­obligation resulting from an event that has Pension costs, defined benefit occurred and for which payments are likely to meet the oblipension plans gation. A further condition is that it is possible to make a reliGroup able estimate of the amount to be paid. SEK M 2019/20 2018/19 Pensions Current service cost –19 –14 Pensions are reported either as defined contribution plans or Interest expense –4 –4 as defined benefit plans. Most of Elekta’s pension commitInterest income 2 2 ments are met through ongoing payments to authorities or Actuarial gains (+) and losses (–) –8 –1 other independent organizations that administer the pension Total pension costs defined plans. For these defined contribution pension plans, a pension benefit plans –28 –17 cost is reported on a continuous basis as the benefits are whereof reported in: earned, which normally coincides with the date on which the the income statement –20 –16 fees are paid. other comprehensive income –8 –1 Elekta has defined benefit pension plans for certain employees in a few countries. Independent actuaries calculate the magnitude of the obligations in each plan and Defined benefit pension plans revalue the obligations of the pension plans each year. The pension costs are estimated using the so-called projected Group unit credit method in a way that distributes the costs over SEK M April 30, 2020 April 30, 2019 the employee’s working life. These obligations are valued at the present value of the expected future payments. Actuarial Defined benefit obligation, funded plans 177 148 gains and losses are reported in other comprehensive income Fair value of plan assets –142 –125 in the period during which they arise. Provision for pensions, funded plans 35 23 Warranty provisions Estimated costs for product guarantees are charged against Defined benefit obligation, unfunded plans 140 126 operating costs in conjunction with the income recognition of Provision for pensions, the products. The estimated costs are established using hisunfunded plans 140 126 toric statistics, with known changes taken into account Pension provision for defined ­benefit regarding product quality, repair costs etcetera. plans, net 175 149 Estimates and assessment Provisions include uncertainties and entails various judgments. Movement in provision for pensions Provisions for guarantees are based on historic statistics, while others, such as provisions for legal disputes and restructuring Group are based on management’s best estimate of the expected SEK M 2019/20 2018/19 outcome. A provision is only reported when an event has occurred for which economic responsibility is probable and Opening balance: when it is possible to make a reliable estimate of the amount Defined benefit obligation 274 226 to be paid. Total provisions amounted to SEK 414 M (376). Fair value of plan assets –125 –99 Provision for pensions May 1 149 127 Provisions Pension costs 28 17 Group Parent Company Contributions /Repayments –5 –5 April 30, April 30, April 30, April 30, Benefit payments –4 –4 SEK M 2020 2019 2020 2019 Change in provision plan – 10 Restructuring reserve 2 3 – 0 Translation differences 6 4 Warranty ­provisions 101 102 – – Closing balance: Other provisions 76 84 1 0 Defined benefit obligation 317 274 Short-term provisions 179 188 1 0 Fair value of plan assets –142 –125 Provision for ­pensions 175 149 – – Provision for pensions April 30 175 149 Other provisions 60 39 10 12 Long-term ­provisions 235 188 10 12 ELEKTA ANNUAL REPORT 2019/20 129 FINANCIAL REPORTING / NOTES NOTE 28 Provisions, cont. Main actuarial assumptions (weighted average) Group April 30, 2020 April 30, 2019 Discount rate 1.6% 1.3% Future salary increases 2.6% 1.9% Movement in provisions Group Parent Company SEK M Restructuring reserve Warranty ­provisions Other provisions Other provisions Opening balance May 1, 2018 19 83 115 9 Provisions – 151 31 3 Reversals – –74 –1 0 Provisions utilized during the year –17 –61 –23 0 Translation differences 1 3 0 – Closing balance April 30, 2019 3 102 122 12 Provisions 3 156 38 1 Reversals –3 –86 –2 0 Provisions utilized during the year –1 –71 –24 –3 Translation differences 0 0 1 – Closing balance April 30, 2020 2 101 135 10 In the consolidated accounts, other provisions mainly refer to project related provisions. In the Parent Company, contingent considerations are reported as provisions and amount to SEK 0 M (0). NOTE 29 Customer contract related balances Revenue recognized in the period and order backlog Group SEK M 2019/20 2018/19 Group April 30 April 30 Revenue recognized in the year relatSEK M 2020 2019 ing to the opening balance of the contract liability balance 4,412 4,685 Contract assets Income not invoiced 1,527 1,411 Order backlog was SEK 34,689 M, compared to SEK 32,003 M Doubtful INI –1 –11 on April 30, 2019. Order backlog is converted at closing Total 1,526 1,401 exchange rates which resulted in a positive translation difference of SEK 461 M. According to current delivery plans, curContract liabilities rent order backlog is expected to be recognized as follows: Advances from customer 4,103 4,883 approximately 35 percent in 2020/21, 30 percent in 2021/22 Prepaid service income 2,135 2,096 and 35 percent thereafter. Other prepaid income 91 74 Total 6,329 7,053 The increase in contract assets and decrease in contract NOTE 30 ­liabilities was mostly due to country mix and revenue recognition for projects with advances related to the IFRS 15 impleAccrued expenses mentation. Group SEK M April 30, 2020 April 30, 2019 Reserve for additional project costs 540 536 Accrued commission costs 92 100 Accrued vacation pay 198 171 Accrued social costs 62 50 Accrued interest expenses 35 28 Accrued bonus costs 267 270 Other items 509 507 Total 1,703 1,661 130 ELEKTA ANNUAL REPORT 2019/20 NOTE 31 NOTE 32 Other current liabilities Assets pledged Parent Company SEK M April 30, 2020 April 30, 2019 Group SEK M April 30, 2020 April 30, 2019 Accounts payable 7 17 Accrued expenses (see below) 54 54 Bank balances 8 8 Derivative financial instruments 28 15 Total 8 8 Other liabilities 5 9 Total 95 95 Collateral pledged for contingent liabilities. Accrued expenses Accrued vacation pay liability 6 4 Accrued social costs 1 3 NOTE 33 Accrued interest expenses Other items 34 14 28 20 Contingent liabilities Total 54 54 Group Parent Company April 30, April 30, April 30, April 30, SEK M 2020 2019 2020 2019 Guarantees 58 83 1,268 1,320 Total 58 83 1,268 1,320 For the group the guarantees consist of mainly bid bonds. For the Parent Company the guarantees consist of mainly performance guarantees and advance payments guarantees. NOTE 34 Cash flow statement Group Parent Company SEK M 2019/20 2018/19 2019/20 2018/19 Interest net Interest income –63 –65 –219 –191 Interest expenses 213 156 175 173 Total 150 91 –44 –18 Other non-cash items Participations in profit /loss of associated companies, after tax 2 –6 – – Revaluation of prior interest in acquisition –66 – – – Write-down of shares in subsidiaries – – 199 – Write-down of loan – 5 – 5 Revaluation of participations in other companies – – 107 – Result from divestments /disposals of fixed assets 1 –70 – –48 Cost of incentive programs –3 6 –1 6 Appropriations – – –14 14 Group contribution – – – –138 Unrealized exchange rate effects 109 60 –22 49 Other items 11 26 17 61 Total 54 21 286 –51 Business combinations Purchase price –290 –69 – – Contingent considerations –2 –16 – – Unpaid part of purchase price 114 – – – Total –178 –85 – – Other investing activities Shareholders’ contributions paid – – –7 –44 Divestments of subsidiaries – 92 – 92 Investments in associates – –6 – –6 Investments in other shares –343 –58 –343 –58 Investments in short term investments –73 – –2 – Divestments of short term investments 47 38 47 38 Total –369 66 –305 22 More information on business combinations is presented in Note 36. ELEKTA ANNUAL REPORT 2019/20 131 FINANCIAL REPORTING / NOTES NOTE 34 Cash flow statement, cont. Changes in net liabilities related to financing activities 2019/20 Non-cash changes Restatement Foreign exchange SEK M Opening balance Cash flow IFRS 16 Other ­movements Closing balance Bond loans 1,998 500 – –2 – 2,496 Leases liabilities 6 –256 1,319 184 3 1,256 Liabilities to credit institutes 2,555 3,016 – –2 37 5,606 Total 4,558 3,260 1,319 180 40 9,358 Changes in net liabilities related to financing activities 2018/19 Non-cash changes Restatement Foreign exchange SEK M Opening balance Cash flow IFRS 16 Other ­movements Closing balance Bond loans 1,997 – – 1 – 1,998 Leases liabilities 3 – – 2 1 6 Liabilities to credit institutes 3,344 –938 – 3 145 2,555 Total 5,344 –938 – 6 146 4,558 NOTE 35 goodwill is tax deductible. Elekta consolidates the PalabraApps, LLC business from February 14, 2020. The acquisition is Related party transactions expected to add 0 percent to Elekta’s net sales on an annual basis and is expected to be accretive to Elekta’s earnings per Transactions between Elekta AB and its subsidiaries are share (EPS). According to IFRS guidelines Elekta should value shown in Notes 11, 13 and 27. These transactions are elimiits interest in Palabra prior to obtaining the control to fair nated upon consolidation. Sales to associated companies value and record the revaluation through the income stateamounted to SEK 57 M (32), receivables from associated comment as other operating income. The operating earnings was panies amounted to SEK 42 M (43) and costs related to assoimpacted positively by 66 MSEK due to the non-cash revaluation. ciated companies amounted to SEK 0 M (0). On August 29, 2019 Elekta announced the acquisition of 100 None of the board members or any of the senior executives percent of the shares in ProKnow Systems, LLC, in order to has, or has had, any direct or indirect involvement in any expand its offering of cloud-based solutions for advanced business transactions between themselves and Elekta. In radiation therapy. ProKnow’s product portfolio enable clinics addition to this, no other transactions with related parties to standardize their treatment planning analytics by supporthave occurred. Remunerations and benefits to key personnel ing oncology teams with analysis of collective, big data from in m­ anagement positions are presented in Note 7. patient groups. This solution can also streamline work-flow challenges and improve contouring accuracy and treatment plan quality. The preliminary acquisition price consisted of a NOTE 36 fixed amount of approximately SEK 78 M and a maximum variable amount of approximately SEK 54 M, which is dependBusiness combinations ing on the achievement of goals set-up for the transferred business. According to the purchase price allocation, goodwill 2019/20 and intangible assets amounted to approximately SEK 114 M On February 14, 2020 Elekta acquired the remaining shares based on the full variable acquisition price. The acquired (67%) of PalabraApps, LLC after the strategic investment in goodwill is tax deductible. Elekta consolidates the ProKnows April 2018. The preliminary acquisition price consisted of a business from August 23, 2019. The acquisition is expected to fixed amount of approximately SEK 108 M and a maximum add 0 percent to Elekta’s net sales on an annual basis and is variable amount of approximately SEK 50 M, which is dependexpected to be accretive to Elekta earnings per share (EPS). ing on the achievement of goals set-up for the transferred Transaction costs amounted to approximately SEK 1 M and business. According to the purchase price allocation, goodwill were reported as other operating expenses in the consoliand intangible assets amounted to approximately SEK 237 M dated income statement. based on the full variable acquisition price. The acquired 132 ELEKTA ANNUAL REPORT 2019/20 2018/19 Elekta will be able to enhance its Quality Assurance capabilities On April 9, 2019, Elekta announced the acquisition of a and offering for its oncology treatment solutions. The acquired minority stake (20%) in the German Company, iRT Systems goodwill is not tax deductible. Transaction costs amounted to GmbH, in order to improve its quality assurance (QA) offering approximately SEK 2 M and were reported as other operating to clinics and hospitals around the world. The acquisition price expenses in the consolidated income statement. At the time consisted of a fixed amount of approximately SEK 6 M. of acquisition equity amounted to SEK –14 M. Elekta announced on July 27, 2018, that it has acquired 100 On July 19, 2018, Elekta announced that it has sold its MEG percent of the Canadian quality assurance expert Acumyn, a business to York Instruments, a subsidiary of Croton Healthstand-alone commercial spin-off of University Health Netcare, LLC. This divestment follows Elekta’s strategic decision work, Toronto. This follows an exclusive agreement between to prioritize its treatment solutions and oncology informatics Elekta and Acumyn, signed in 2014, to commercialize its inteportfolio. The purchase price received amounted to SEK 92 M. grated Quality Management System, AQUA®. The acquisition Transaction costs amounted to approximately SEK 4 M. price consisted of a fixed amount of SEK 68 M. According to An amount of SEK 16 M (45) of contingent considerations the purchase price allocation goodwill amounted to SEK 82 M related to acquisitions in previous years has been paid out. based on the full variable amounted the acquisition price. NOTE 37 Average number of employees Men Women Total 2019/20 2018/19 2019/20 2018/19 2019/20 2018/19 Parent Company 19 18 22 19 41 37 Subsidiaries: Sweden 155 153 87 82 242 235 USA 580 562 282 288 862 850 United Kingdom 532 493 184 159 717 652 China 517 416 224 185 741 601 The Netherlands 172 172 44 38 216 210 Poland 77 63 105 96 182 159 Germany 118 111 33 32 151 143 Japan 105 99 21 23 126 122 India 109 97 6 7 115 104 Canada 64 63 26 22 90 85 Italy 57 56 16 15 73 71 France 55 53 15 15 70 68 Australia 51 43 18 12 69 55 Brazil 38 41 11 13 49 54 Spain 42 40 7 9 49 49 Hong Kong 33 33 15 14 48 47 Turkey 42 13 15 34 57 47 Mexico 30 29 7 4 37 33 South Korea 21 19 4 4 25 23 Singapore 17 17 9 6 26 23 Austria 14 15 6 6 19 21 Russia 16 15 5 5 21 20 South Africa 12 10 4 3 16 13 Belgium 10 11 1 1 11 12 Greece 9 9 3 3 12 12 Czech Republic 6 8 3 3 9 11 Portugal 10 8 2 3 12 11 New Zealand (branch) 6 7 2 2 8 9 Algeria 8 1 2 8 9 9 Vietnam 8 7 1 1 9 8 Switzerland (branch) 3 3 2 2 5 5 Total average number of employees 2,935 2,684 1,181 1,114 4,117 3,798 Specification men/women among Board of Directors and executive management During the fiscal year, the Board of Directors of Elekta AB consisted of 63 percent (56) men. The executive management ­consisted of 81 percent (85) men. ELEKTA ANNUAL REPORT 2019/20 133 FINANCIAL REPORTING / NOTES NOTE 38 asset and interest-bearing liability in the Balance Sheet. The asset is adjusted with prepaid rents and received incentives. Events after the reporting period The incentives are currently reported as liabilities in the ­Balance Sheet and are accrued over the lease period. In June, 2020, Richard Hausmann, President and Chief ExecuIn the Income Statement, lease payments previously tive Officer decided to resign for personal reasons with immereported as an operating expense within operating result diate effect. have been replaced with depreciation and interest expenses. GenesisCare ordered several Elekta linear accelerators at a This change means that total assets and operating profit value of around USD 200 M (approx. SEK 2 B) over the next increase, which has affected various key indicators. The cash five years, of which 11 Elekta Unity MR-Linac systems, as flow from operations increase related to the amortization of ­GenesisCare enters the U.S. market. the lease liability, the amortization is instead shown in the Acquisition of Kaiku Health strengthens Elekta Digital offercash flow from financing activities. ing with personalized remote digital health interventions. Effects from IFRS 16 on consolidated ­balance sheet NOTE 39 Reported Apr 30, Adj. Adjusted Effects from changed accounting SEK M 2019 IFRS 16 1) May 1, 2019 standards Right-of-use asset 0 1,242 1,242 Other assets 24,064 –16 24,048 IFRS 16 is a new standard on accounting for leases which Deferred tax assets 0 7 7 replaces IAS 17 and the associated interpretation statements Total assets 24,064 1,234 25,298 IFRIC 4, SIC-15 and SIC-27. The new standard have affected the accounting for leases in the books of a lessee, whereas Total equity 7,779 –31 7,748 the accounting in all material aspects has remained unchanged for lessors. For Elekta, the major effect from Long term lease liability 0 1,118 1,118 implementing the new standard relate to operating leases for Short term lease liability 0 201 201 premises. IFRS 16 is effective for annual reporting periods Other liabilities 16,285 –54 16,231 beginning on or after January 1, 2019 and Elekta has applied Total equity and liabilities 24,064 1,234 25,298 the new standard from May 1, 2019. 1) T he effects from the initial application of IFRS 16 has been adjusted The standard requires all lease arrangement to be recognized ­compared to previously disclosed figures. in the balance sheet with a few exceptions for short-term leases and low-value leases. This recognition is based on the view that According to the previous standard, IAS 17, a distinction was the lessee has a right to use an asset for a specific period of made between operating and finance lease arrangement, time and a simultaneous obligation to pay for that right. where operating leases were not recognized in the Balance Elekta has applied IFRS 16 with the modified retrospective Sheet. The value of undiscounted future lease fees is disclosed approach and as permitted by the standard the comparative in note 17, amounted to SEK 1,459 M. The lease liability recogperiod has not been restated, instead an adjustment on the nized in the Balance Sheet May 1, 2019 amounted to SEK 1,319 M. opening balance has shown the cumulative effect. The lease The difference is mainly related to the discounting effect of liabilities have been measured at the present value of the the liability as the liability is calculated as the net present remaining lease payments, discounted using the incremental value for the future payments, while the amount disclosed as borrowing rate at transition date. The weighted average of April 30, 2019 is not discounted in accordance with IAS 17, incremental borrowing rate used at transition date was 3.85 for more information see note 17. Increases of the payments percent. Right-of-use assets have been recognized based on due to index and extension and termination options included the amount equal to the related lease liability. in the lease liability does also explain the difference, together IFRS 16 permit to use some practical expedients. Elekta has with the exclusion of lease payments related to low-value applied the following practical expedients when applying IFRS assets and short-term leases from the Balance Sheet. Those 16 at transition date: payments are expensed on straight-line basis in the income • Operating leases with a remaining lease term of less than statement. 12 months as at May 1, 2019, have been accounted for as short-term leases. Short-term leases and operating leases Transition to IFRS 16 of low-value have not been recognized on the balance SEK M sheet at transition date. • Initial direct costs have been excluded from the measurement Future lease fees for operational leases as of April 30, 2019 1,459 of the right-to-use asset at the date of initial recognition. Discount effect of incremental borrowing rate –280 • Hindsight have been used in determining the lease term for Short-term leases –3 contracts containing options to extend or terminate the lease. Low-value assets –15 Adjustments due to index change and options to extend or Under the new standard the present value of lease obligaterminate contracts 158 tions have been measured and reported as a non-current Lease liability as of May 1, 2019 1,319 134 ELEKTA ANNUAL REPORT 2019/20 ELEKTA ANNUAL REPORT 2019/20 135 FINANCIAL REPORTING / SIGNATURES OF THE BOARD The Board of Directors and the President and CEO certify that the development and p ­ erformance of the business, position the annual financial report has been prepared in accordance and profit or loss of the Parent Company and the Group, and with generally accepted accounting ­principles and that the describes the ­principal risks and uncertainties that the ­Parent consolidated accounts have been prepared in accordance with Company and the companies in the Group face. the international set of accounting standards referred to in The annual report also contains the sustainability report in ­Regulation (EC) No 1606/2002 of the European Parliament and accordance with the Swedish Annual Accounts Act, Chapter of the Council of 19 July 2002 on the application of interna6, Section 11, see page 62, and the Sustainability Report in tional accounting standards, and give a true and fair view of accordance with the Global reporting Initiative, GRI, see the the position and profit or loss of the Parent Company and the GRI Index on page 59. Group, and that the management report gives a fair review of Stockholm July 6, 2020 Laurent Leksell Caroline Leksell Cooke Johan Malmquist Chairman of the board Member of the board Member of the board Tomas Puusepp Wolfgang Reim Jan Secher Member of the board Member of the board Member of the board Birgitta Stymne Göransson Cecilia Wikström Member of the board Member of the board Gustaf Salford Acting President and CEO Our audit report was submitted on July 10, 2020 Ernst & Young AB Rickard Andersson Authorized Public Accountant 136 ELEKTA ANNUAL REPORT 2019/20 FINANCIAL REPORTING / AUDITOR’S REPORT Auditor’s report To the general meeting of the shareholders of Elekta AB (publ), corporate identity number 556170-4015 This is a translation from the Swedish original. Report on the annual accounts Other Information than and consolidated accounts the annual accounts and Materiality Opinions ­consolidated accounts We have audited the annual accounts and consolidated This document also contains other accounts of Elekta AB (publ) for the financial year 2019-05-01– information than the annual 2020-04-30. The annual accounts and consolidated accounts accounts and consolidated accounts Scope of the company are included on pages 81–136 in this document. and is found on pages 1–80. The In our opinion, the annual accounts have been prepared in Board of Directors and the Managaccordance with the Annual Accounts Act and present fairly, ing Director are responsible for this in all material respects, the financial position of the Parent other information. Key Audit Company as of April 30, 2020 and its financial performance Our opinion on the annual Matters and cash flow for the year then ended in accordance with the accounts and consolidated accounts Annual Accounts Act. The consolidated accounts have been does not cover this other informaprepared in accordance with the Annual Accounts Act and tion and we do not express any form present fairly, in all material respects, the financial position of of assurance conclusion regarding this other information. the group as of April 30, 2020 and their financial performance In connection with our audit of the annual accounts and and cash flow for the year then ended in accordance with consolidated accounts, our responsibility is to read the inforInternational Financial Reporting Standards (IFRS), as mation identified above and consider whether the informaadopted by the EU, and the Annual Accounts Act. The statution is materially inconsistent with the annual accounts and tory administration report is consistent with the other parts consolidated accounts. In this procedure we also take into of the annual accounts and consolidated accounts. account our knowledge otherwise obtained in the audit and We therefore recommend that the general meeting of assess whether the information otherwise appears to be shareholders adopts the income statement and balance materially misstated. sheet for the Parent Company and the group. If we, based on the work performed concerning this inforOur opinions in this report on the annual accounts and mation, conclude that there is a material misstatement of consolidated accounts are consistent with the content of the this other information, we are required to report that fact. additional report that has been submitted to the Parent We have nothing to report in this regard. Company’s audit committee in accordance with the Audit Regulation (537/2014) Article 11. Responsibilities of the Board of Directors and the Managing Director Basis for Opinions The Board of Directors and the Managing Director are responWe conducted our audit in accordance with International sible for the preparation of the annual accounts and consoliStandards on Auditing (ISA) and generally accepted auditing dated accounts and that they give a fair presentation in standards in Sweden. Our responsibilities under those stanaccordance with the Annual Accounts Act and, concerning dards are further described in the Auditor’s Responsibilities the consolidated accounts, in accordance with IFRS as section. We are independent of the Parent Company and the adopted by the EU. The Board of Directors and the Managing group in accordance with professional ethics for accountants Director are also responsible for such internal control as they in Sweden and have otherwise fulfilled our ethical responsibilidetermine is necessary to enable the preparation of annual ties in accordance with these requirements. This includes accounts and consolidated accounts that are free from that, based on the best of our knowledge and belief, no promaterial misstatement, whether due to fraud or error. hibited services referred to in the Audit Regulation (537/2014) In preparing the annual accounts and consolidated Article 5.1 have been provided to the audited company or, accounts, The Board of Directors and the Managing Director where applicable, its Parent Company or its controlled comare responsible for the assessment of the company’s and the panies within the EU. group’s ability to continue as a going concern. They disclose, We believe that the audit evidence we have obtained is sufas applicable, matters related to going concern and using the ficient and appropriate to provide a basis for our opinions. going concern basis of accounting. The going concern basis of accounting is however not applied if the Board of Directors Other information and the Managing Director intend to liquidate the company, The audit of the annual accounts for the year 2018-05-01– to cease operations, or has no realistic alternative but to do so. 2019-04-30 has been performed by another auditor which The Audit Committee shall, without prejudice to the Board have provided an Auditor’s report dated July 8, 2019 with of Director’s responsibilities and tasks in general, among other unmodiﬁed opinion in Report on the annual accounts and things oversee the company’s ﬁnancial reporting process. consolidated accounts. ELEKTA ANNUAL REPORT 2019/20 137 FINANCIAL REPORTING / AUDITOR’S REPORT Key Audit Matters Key audit matters of the audit are those matters that, in our professional judgment, were of most signiﬁcance in our audit of the annual accounts and consolidated accounts of the current period. These matters were addressed in the context of our audit of, and in forming our opinion thereon, the annual accounts and consolidated accounts as a whole, but we do not provide a separate opinion on these matters. For each matter below, our description of how our audit addressed the matter is provided in that context. We have fulﬁlled the responsibilities described in the Auditor’s responsibilities for the audit of the ﬁnancial statements section of our report, including in relation to these matters. Accordingly, our audit included the performance of procedures designed to respond to our assessment of the risks of material misstatement of the ﬁnancial statements. The results of our audit procedures, including the procedures performed to address the matters below, provide the basis for our audit opinion on the accompanying ﬁnancial statements. REVENUE RECOGNITION Description of the area How this area was taken into account in the audit Elekta’s revenue comes from the sale of machinery, software and In our audit, we have mapped and evaluated Elekta’s processes and services. Many of Elekta’s products and services are sold indecontrols on revenue recognition to gain an understanding of how they pendently, while others are part of so-called compound contracts, work and where any errors could occur. where equipment, software and services are covered by a single cusOur mapping has focused on the approval of new customer agreetomer agreement. Revenue for each component is recognized in the ments, the model for allocating revenue to various components of the contract (performance obligation) when the control is transferred to agreements and the company’s controls to ensure that the revenue is the customer. accounted for in the right period. After our mapping, we have tested Revenue recognition depends on management’s assessments of the controls and carried out, among other things, the following review the contract terms that govern when the control for each component measures: passes to the buyer. Machines are installed in accordance with the installation date agreed with the customer and it is usually at this •P  erformed trend and correlation tests using computerized analytical time that the revenue for the machine is reported. After technical methods in order to identify fluctuations and to check that payment approval has been received from the customer, the remaining part has been received for reported revenue. of the revenue is reported attributable to software and installation. •R  andomly tested that revenue is accounted for in the correct period The transaction price, taking discounts into account, is allocated and at the right amount among the various performance commitments in the contract based •R  eviewed a selection of new large contracts and sales against the on estimated stand-alone sales prices for the goods and services in terms of the contract and Elekta’s guidelines for assessing revenue the contract identified as performance commitments. recognition. Due to the inherent complexity of revenue recognition and the nature of estimates and assessments from management, we have We have also examined the accounting policies and notes provided in assessed revenue from the sale of systems as a particularly important the annual report. area of the audit. For accounting policies and disclosures, please refer to Note 6. GOODWILL Description of the area How this area was taken into account in the audit Goodwill amounts to SEK 6,311 M as of April 30, 2020 and represents Our review has included, among other things, the following review a significant proportion of Elekta’s total assets. Goodwill amounts ­measures; are allocated to the Group’s cash-generating units (CGUs). Impairment testing of goodwill and trademarks with an indefinite •E  valuation of the company’s process for establishing and conducting useful life is carried out annually, or more frequently if there are indiimpairment tests. cations of a decline in value. •R  eview of the Company’s identification of cash-generating units When the book value exceeds the estimated recoverable amount, (CGU) the asset is impaired to the recoverable amount. The recoverable •E  valuation using own valuation experts regarding used valuation amount is the highest of a CGU’s net realizable value and value in methods and calculation models. use, which corresponds to the discounted present value of future • Assessment of the plausibility of assumptions made. cash flows. Future cash flows are based on the forecast approved by • Analysis of the company’s sensitivity analyses management for the next five-year period. As described in Note 16, • Analysis of the reliability of previous forecasts by comparing previous the calculations of utilization values assume that important assumpyear’s forecasts against actual outcomes. tions are made regarding, among other things, growth rates, gross •E  xamination of additional information provided in the Annual Report. margin and discount rates. Note 16 further describes the assumptions necessary for the calculation of value in use and contains a sensitivity analysis in the event of a change in assumptions. Due to the assessments and assumptions required to calculate the value in use, we have assessed that goodwill valuation is a particularly important area in our audit. 138 ELEKTA ANNUAL REPORT 2019/20 Auditor’s responsibility We must inform the Board of Directors of, among other matOur objectives are to obtain reasonable assurance about ters, the planned scope and timing of the audit. We must also whether the annual accounts and consolidated accounts as a inform of significant audit findings during our audit, including whole are free from material misstatement, whether due to any significant deficiencies in internal control that we identified. fraud or error, and to issue an auditor’s report that includes We must also provide the Board of Directors with a stateour opinions. Reasonable assurance is a high level of assurment that we have complied with relevant ethical requireance but is not a guarantee that an audit conducted in ments regarding independence, and to communicate with accordance with ISAs and generally accepted auditing stanthem all relationships and other matters that may reasonably dards in Sweden will always detect a material misstatement be thought to bear on our independence, and where applicable, when it exists. Misstatements can arise from fraud or error related safeguards. and are considered material if, individually or in the aggreFrom the matters communicated with the Board of Direcgate, they could reasonably be expected to influence the ecotors, we determine those matters that were of most signiﬁnomic decisions of users taken on the basis of these annual cance in the audit of the annual accounts and consolidated accounts and consolidated accounts. accounts, including the most important assessed risks for As part of an audit in accordance with ISAs, we exercise material misstatement, and are therefore the key audit matprofessional judgment and maintain professional scepticism ters. We describe these matters in the auditor’s report unless throughout the audit. We also: law or regulation precludes disclosure about the matter. • identify and assess the risks of material misstatement of the annual accounts and consolidated accounts, whether due to Report on other legal and regulatory fraud or error, design and perform audit procedures responrequirements sive to those risks, and obtain audit evidence that is suffiOpinions cient and appropriate to provide a basis for our opinions. The In addition to our audit of the annual accounts and consolirisk of not detecting a material misstatement resulting from dated accounts, we have also audited the administration of fraud is higher than for one resulting from error, as fraud the Board of Directors and the Managing Director of Elekta may involve collusion, forgery, intentional omissions, misrepAB (publ) for the year 2019-05-01–2020-04-30 and the resentations, or the override of internal control. proposed appropriations of the company’s profit or loss. • obtain an understanding of the company’s internal control We recommend to the general meeting of shareholders relevant to our audit in order to design audit procedures that the profit be appropriated in accordance with the prothat are appropriate in the circumstances, but not for the posal in the statutory administration report and that the purpose of expressing an opinion on the effectiveness of the members of the Board of Directors and the Managing company’s internal control. Director be discharged from liability for the financial year. • evaluate the appropriateness of accounting policies used and the reasonableness of accounting estimates and Basis for Opinions related disclosures made by the Board of Directors and the We conducted the audit in accordance with generally Managing Director. accepted auditing standards in Sweden. Our responsibilities • conclude on the appropriateness of the Board of Directors’ under those standards are further described in the Auditor’s and the Managing Director’s use of the going concern basis Responsibilities section. We are independent of the Parent of accounting in preparing the annual accounts and conCompany and the group in accordance with professional ethsolidated accounts. We also draw a conclusion, based on ics for accountants in Sweden and have otherwise fulfilled our the audit evidence obtained, as to whether any material ethical responsibilities in accordance with these requirements. uncertainty exists related to events or conditions that may We believe that the audit evidence we have obtained is cast significant doubt on the company’s and the group’s ­sufficient and appropriate to provide a basis for our opinions. ability to continue as a going concern. If we conclude that a material uncertainty exists, we are required to draw Responsibilities of the Board of Directors and the attention in our auditor’s report to the related disclosures in Managing Director the annual accounts and consolidated accounts or, if such The Board of Directors is responsible for the proposal for approdisclosures are inadequate, to modify our opinion about the priations of the company’s profit or loss. At the proposal of a annual accounts and consolidated accounts. Our concludividend, this includes an assessment of whether the dividend sions are based on the audit evidence obtained up to the is justifiable considering the requirements which the company’s date of our auditor’s report. However, future events or conand the group’s type of operations, size and risks place on the ditions may cause a company and a group to cease to consize of the Parent Company’s and the group’s equity, consolitinue as a going concern. dation requirements, liquidity and position in general. • evaluate the overall presentation, structure and content of The Board of Directors is responsible for the company’s orgathe annual accounts and consolidated accounts, including nization and the administration of the company’s affairs. This the disclosures, and whether the annual accounts and conincludes among other things continuous assessment of the solidated accounts represent the underlying transactions company’s and the group’s financial situation and ensuring and events in a manner that achieves fair presentation. that the company’s organization is designed so that the • obtain sufficient and appropriate audit evidence regarding accounting, management of assets and the company’s finanthe financial information of the entities or business activicial affairs otherwise are controlled in a reassuring manner. The ties within the group to express an opinion on the consoliManaging Director shall manage the ongoing administration dated accounts. We are responsible for the direction, superaccording to the Board of Directors’ guidelines and instructions vision and performance of the group audit. We remain and among other matters take measures that are necessary to solely responsible for our opinions. fulfill the company’s accounting in accordance with law and handle the management of assets in a reassuring manner. ELEKTA ANNUAL REPORT 2019/20 139 FINANCIAL REPORTING / AUDITOR’S REPORT Auditor’s responsibility company’s situation. We examine and test decisions underOur objective concerning the audit of the administration, and taken, support for decisions, actions taken and other circumthereby our opinion about discharge from liability, is to obtain stances that are relevant to our opinion concerning discharge audit evidence to assess with a reasonable degree of assurfrom liability. As a basis for our opinion on the Board of Direcance whether any member of the Board of Directors or the tors’ proposed appropriations of the company’s profit or loss Managing Director in any material respect: we examined whether the proposal is in accordance with the • has undertaken any action or been guilty of any omission Companies Act. which can give rise to liability to the company, or Ernst & Young AB was appointed auditor of Elekta AB by • in any other way has acted in contravention of the the general meeting of the shareholders on 22 August 2019. ­Companies Act, the Annual Accounts Act or the Articles of Association. Stockholm 10 July 2020 Our objective concerning the audit of the proposed appropriations of the company’s profit or loss, and thereby our opinion Ernst & Young AB about this, is to assess with reasonable degree of assurance whether the proposal is in accordance with the Companies Act. Signature on original auditors’ report in Swedish1) Reasonable assurance is a high level of assurance, but is not a guarantee that an audit conducted in accordance with generally accepted auditing standards in Sweden will always Rickard Andersson detect actions or omissions that can give rise to liability to Authorized Public Accountant the company, or that the proposed appropriations of the company’s profit or loss are not in accordance with the Companies Act. As part of an audit in accordance with generally accepted auditing standards in Sweden, we exercise professional judgment and maintain professional scepticism throughout the audit. The examination of the administration and the proposed appropriations of the company’s profit or loss is based primarily on the audit of the accounts. Additional audit procedures performed are based on our professional judgment with starting point in risk and materiality. This means that we focus the examination on such actions, areas and relationships that are material for the operations and where deviations and violations would have particular importance for the 1) T his is a translation of the original auditors’ report in Swedish. In the event of any differences between the translation and the original statement in Swedish, the Swedish version shall prevail. 140 ELEKTA ANNUAL REPORT 2019/20 Glossary Adaptive radiation therapy Fraction A treatment technique that aims to customize each patient’s Part of the total radiation dose, delivered at a daily treatment. treatment plan to patient specific variation by evaluating and characterizing the systematic and random variations through Food and Drug Administration (FDA) image feedback and including them in adaptive planning. Is an agency of the US Department of Health and Human Services. The FDA is responsible for protecting Benign and promoting public health through the regulation and The term benign is used when describing tumors or growths supervision of for example medical devices. that do not threaten the health of an individual. Benign is the opposite of malignant. Gamma Knife® radiosurgery Stereotactic radiosurgery with Leksell Gamma Knife®. Brachytherapy Is also known as internal radiation therapy, involves placing a Glioblastoma radiation source in or near the treatment area. This allows The most common and most aggressive malignant primary very high tumor doses to be achieved, while limiting the brain tumor. They are usually highly malignant as a large impact on surrounding organs. The method is typically used number of tumor cells are reproducing at any given time and to treat gynecological cancer and prostate cancer, but also are supported by a large network of blood vessels. Glioblastoma breast cancer and certain types of skin cancer. often infiltrate with normal healthy brain tissue. Cancer High dose radiation (HDR) Uncontrolled, abnormal growth of cells. An amount of radiation that is greater than that given in typical radiation therapy. High-dose radiation is precisely Chemotherapy directed at the tumor to avoid damaging healthy tissue, Treatment of cancer diseases with the aid of chemicals that and may kill more cancer cells in fewer treatments. eliminate diseased cells. Hypofractionation Cone beam CT (CBCT) A treatment schedule in which the total dose of radiation is A CBCT system mounted to a linac or Gamma Knife creates divided into large doses and treatments are given once a day images used for verifying or determining the location of the or less often. patient in relation to the treatment beam(s). Image guided radiation therapy (IGRT) Computed tomography (CT) IGRT enables high precision targeting and accuracy using A radiological method of imaging anatomical structures by high-resolution multi-dimensional X-ray images of the means of layering, using computer technology. patient’s tissue. Deep brain stimulation (DBS) Image guided radiation therapy (IGRT) with magnetic A brain ‘pacemaker’ is implanted to stimulate brain activity resonance imaging (MRI) and block signals that cause unwanted symptoms present in This provides high-quality images of tissue and tumors while functional neurological disorders, for example tremor. treatment is in progress, and also enables adaptation of the radiation dose in real-time. The method is under development Diffusion weighted imaging (DWI) in the MR-linac consortium. A method to evaluate the molecular function and micro-­ architecture of the human body. Intensity-modulated radiation therapy (IMRT) IMRT is an advanced type of treatment that uses multiple Electronic brachytherapy very small beams of varying intensity rather than a single, Type of brachytherapy that uses an X-ray tube to induce radilarge, uniform beam. The radiation can therefore be tailored ation. It can deliver radiation to the tumor with a high degree to the size and shape of the tumor, allowing higher tumor of precision whilst minimizing damage to healthy surrounding doses while minimizing the impact on healthy tissue. tissue. Due to the source of radiation used, electronic brachytherapy can be performed in a room with minimal shielding. Incidence Incidence is the number of new cancer cases arising in a given External-beam radiation therapy period in a specified population. The most common type of radiation therapy, in which the radiation source is produced by a linear accelerator and delivInvasive ered by the radiation beam from the linear accelerator head A treatment technique that penetrates the skin, skull, etcetera. rotated around the patient. By delivering the radiation from The opposite of non-invasive (bloodless). various angles, the radiation dose is distributed more evenly in the tumor without excess damage to surrounding healthy Linear accelerator (Linac) tissue. Equipment for generating and directing ionizing radiation for treatment of cancer. ELEKTA ANNUAL REPORT 2019/20 141 Magnetoencephalograph (MEG) the end of a given year, the survivors. Prevalence of cancers Equipment for real time mapping of the function in different based on cases diagnosed within one, three and five are preparts of the brain, by measuring the magnetic field generated sented as they are likely to be of relevance to the d­ ifferent by brain cells activity. stages of cancer therapy, namely, initial treatment (one year), clinical follow-up (three years) and cure (five years). Magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) Patients who are still alive five years after diagnosis are usuTechnology used to visualize and differentiate organs and ally considered cured since the death rates of such patients anatomical structures inside the body. It uses non-ionizing are similar to those in the general population. radiation and is thus harmless to the patient. Radiation therapy Malignant Fractionated ionizing radiation treatment of cancer. Refers to cancerous cells that usually have the ability to aggressively spread, invade and destroy tissue. Opposite to Radiosurgery benign. Non-invasive surgery in which a high, single dose of precise ionizing radiation replaces surgical instruments. Meningioma A type of tumor that develops from the meninges, the memStereotactic body radiation therapy (SBRT) brane that surrounds the brain and spinal cord. Meningiomas SBRT enables accurate delivery of radiation to a tumor and are the most common type of primary brain tumors and are minimizes the radiation dose to surrounding tissue. This enables often benign. that small and medium-sized tumors can be treated with higher doses and fewer sessions, known as hypofractionation. Metastases Secondary malignant tumors originating from primary ­cancer Stereotactic radiosurgery (SRS) tumors in other parts of the body. This is typically used to treat tumors and other disorders in the brain. The method involves the delivery of a single high Multileaf collimator dose, to small and critically located targets in the brain. The An accessory to the linear accelerator, working like an apermethod offers very high precision, with a minimum impact on ture. With a large number of individually adjustable metal surrounding brain tissue. leaves, the treatment beam can be shaped to the size and shape of the target volume. Stereotactic radiation therapy (SRT) Radiation therapy of cancer, where high precision and accuracy MR-Linac is achieved by delivering the radiation based on an external See image guided radiation therapy (IGRT) with magnetic fixed-coordinate system. resonance imaging (MRI). Stereotaxy Neurology A technique in which a fixed-coordinate system can deterThe study of the nervous system and its disorders. mine the location of a point by specifying the coordinates in terms of height, depth and laterally. Neurosurgery Surgery of the brain or other parts of the central nervous Tesla (T) system. MRI requires a magnetic field that is both strong and uniform. The field strength of the magnet is measured in teslas (T). The Oligometastases majority of systems operate at 1.5T, even though there are A limited number of metastases. commercial systems available between 0.2–7T. Oncology Treatment planning system The study of tumor diseases. Treatment planning systems provide tools for multimodality image registration, organ and tumor contouring, treatment Oncology information system (OIS) simulation and plan optimization. Monaco® is Elekta´s comAll patient information is collected and accessible in an prehensive treatment planning system that supports all oncology information system, from diagnosis through treatmajor treatment techniques. ment and follow-up, so that clinics can deliver the best possible care for every patient. MOSAIQ® is Elekta´s world leading Tumor oncology information system. An abnormal mass of tissue that results when cells divide more than they should or do not die when they should. Parkinson’s disease Tumors may be benign (not cancer), or malignant (cancer). Paralysis, with trembling and shaking as well as muscular Also called neoplasm. rigidity, with a change in movements and posture by the patient. Volumetric modulated arc therapy (VMAT) VMAT is a more advanced variant of intensity modulated Prevalence radiation therapy (IMRT). VMAT enables the physician to The prevalence of a particular cancer can be defined as the ­control the radiation beam, dosage amount and speed of number of persons in a defined population who have been rotation around the patient, which enables faster and more diagnosed with that type of cancer, and who are still alive at accurate treatment. 142 ELEKTA ANNUAL REPORT 2019/20 Definitions Average number of employees Items affecting comparability Total annual number of paid working hours divided by numEvents or transactions with significant financial effect, which ber of standard working hours per year. are relevant for understanding the financial performance when comparing income for the current period with previous CAGR, compound annual growth rate period, including restructuring programs, expenses relating to The mean annual growth rate over a specified period of time major legal disputes, impairments and gains and losses for longer than a year. acquisitions or disposals of subsidiaries. Capital employed Net debt Total assets less interest-free liabilities. Interest-bearing liabilities (excl. lease liabilities) less cash and cash equivalents. Capital turnover ratio Net sales divided by average total assets.1) Net Debt/EBITDA ratio Net debt in relation to EBITDA. Cash flow per share Cash flow after investments in relation to the weighted averNet orders age number of shares. Order intake during a period adjusted for cancellations, removals of orders and currency effects. Contribution margin per region Net sales less cost of products sold and expenses directly Operational cash conversion attributable to the respective region. Cash flow from operating activities divided by EBITDA. Days sales outstanding, DSO Operating margin The total of accounts receivables and accrued income less Operating result in relation to net sales. advances from customers and prepaid income in relation to twelve months rolling net sales divided by 365. Profit margin Profit before tax in relation to net sales. Earnings per share Net profit for the year attributable to Parent Company shareReturn on capital employed holders in relation to the weighted average number of shares Profit before tax plus financial expenses in relation to average (excluding treasury shares). capital employed.1) EBITA Return on shareholders’ equity Operating result items plus a ­ mortization. Net profit for the year attributable to Parent Company shareholders in relation to average shareholders’ equity excluding EBITDA non-controlling interests.1) Operating result items plus d ­ epreciation and amortization. Shareholders’ equity per share Equity/Assets ratio Shareholders’ equity excluding non-controlling interests in Total equity in relation to total assets. relation to the number of shares at year-end (excluding ­treasury shares). Gross orders Order intake during a period. Value added per employee Operating profit plus salaries, other remuneration and Interest cover ratio social security costs and cost of incentive programs EBITDA in relation to interest expenses (excl. interest expenses divided by average number of employees. lease liabilities). Working capital Short-term interest-free assets less short-term interest-free liabilities, excluding current tax and derivatives. 1) Average based on the last five quarters. ELEKTA ANNUAL REPORT 2019/20 143 Alternative performance measures Reconciliation of non-IFRS measures Order backlog Alternative Performance Measures (APMs) are measures and Order backlog represents all orders that have been booked key figures that Elekta’s management and other stakeholders but not yet revenue recognized. Elekta follows the maturity use when managing and analyzing Elekta’s business perforprofile of the order backlog when forecasting revenue. mance. These measures are not substitutes, but rather supplements to financial reporting measures prepared in accorOrder and sales growth based on constant dance with IFRS. Key figures and other APM:s used by Elekta exchange rates are defined on page 143. See below for comments on how Elekta’s order intake and sales are, to a large extent, reported APM:s are used by Elekta and, when applicable, reconciliain subsidiaries with other functional currencies than SEK, tions to the IFRS financial statements. which is the group reporting currency. In order to present order and sales growth on a more comparable basis and to Gross order intake show the impact of currency fluctuations, order and sales Gross order intake represents the new orders that have been growth based on constant exchange rates are presented. The booked during the period and this is in line with industry schedules below present growth based on constant exchange peers. rates reconciled to the total growth reported in accordance with IFRS. Net order intake Up until 2015/16 Elekta reported net order intake. The difference between gross and net order intake are backlog adjustments and currency effects. Gross order intake North and Europe, Middle East and Asia South America Africa Pacific Total % SEK M % SEK M % SEK M % SEK M 2019/20 vs 2018/19 Change based on constant exchange rates –6 –321 1 81 8 385 1 146 Currency effects 6 295 3 209 6 289 5 793 Reported change –1 –26 4 290 13 674 6 938 2018/19 vs 2017/18 Change based on constant exchange rates –1 –40 18 977 6 282 8 1,219 Currency effects 8 369 7 373 8 342 7 1,084 Reported change 7 329 25 1,350 14 624 16 2,303 Net sales North and Europe, Middle East and Asia South America Africa Pacific Total % SEK M % SEK M % SEK M % SEK M 2019/20 vs 2018/19 Change based on constant exchange rates –6 –285 9 468 6 248 3 431 Currency effects 6 267 2 123 6 226 5 616 Reported change 0 –18 12 591 12 474 8 1,047 2018/19 vs 2017/18 Change based on constant exchange rates 8 295 9 375 16 524 10 1,194 Currency effects 8 318 5 236 7 235 7 788 Reported change 16 613 14 611 23 758 17 1,982 144 ELEKTA ANNUAL REPORT 2019/20 Gross profit and gross margin Capital employed Gross profit is the difference between net sales and cost of April 30, April 30, April 30, April 30, April 30, products sold and is presented on a separate line in the SEK M 2016 2017 2018 2019 2020 income statement. Gross profit as a percentage of net sales represents gross margin. The Gross margin is used by manTotal assets 19,441 20,950 23,760 24,064 28,411 agement to review effects on the income statement from Deferred tax liabilities –690 –778 –511 –587 –545 factors such as product mix and price development. Long term provisions –140 –142 –158 –188 –235 Other long-term ­liabilities –73 –33 –63 –55 –73 EBITDA Accounts payable –1,122 –1,000 –1,132 –1,427 –1,025 EBITDA is used for the calculation of the interest cover ratio Advances from and operational cash conversion. ­customers –1,943 –2,531 –5,316 –4,883 –4,103 Prepaid income –1,648 –1,874 –1,990 –2,170 –2,226 EBITDA Accrued expenses –1,817 –1,875 –1,662 –1,661 –1,703 SEK M 2015/16 2016/17 2017/18 2018/19 2019/20 Current tax liabilities –93 –111 –107 –166 –246 Short-term provisions –347 –231 –186 –188 –179 Operating result /EBIT 423 598 1,845 1,696 1,657 Derivative financial Amortization: ­instruments –50 –48 –46 –94 –105 Capitalized developOther current liabilities –157 –281 –257 –308 –501 ment costs 326 380 408 664 746 Capital employed 11,360 12,046 12,331 12,337 17,472 Assets relating business combinations 143 119 116 117 119 Return on capital employed Depreciation 165 156 151 162 410 Return on capital employed is a measure of the profitability EBITDA 1,057 1,253 2,520 2,639 2,931 after taking into account the amount of total capital used unrelated to type of financing. A higher return on capital Items affecting comparability employed indicates a more efficient use of capital. The classification of revenue or expenses as items affecting comparability is based on management’s assessment of the characteristics and also the materiality of the item. Return on capital employed SEK M 2015/16 2016/17 2017/18 2018/19 2019/20 Operating income (EBIT) and operating margin Profit before tax 189 340 1,681 1,580 1,454 Operating income or EBIT (earnings before interest and taxes) Financial expenses 285 271 225 186 266 is part of Elekta’s long term financial ambitions. The measure Profit before tax is presented in the income statement as Elekta consider it to plus financial provide users of the financial statements with a better underexpenses 474 611 1,905 1,766 1,720 standing of the Group’s operating performance from a finanAverage capital cial perspective. The operating margin shows the operating employed income as a percentage of net sales. (last five quarters) 12,039 11,668 11,194 12,010 14,247 Return on capital Capital employed employed, % 4 5 17 15 12 Capital employed represents the value of the balance sheet net assets that is the key driver of cash flow and capital Return on shareholders’ equity required to run the business. It is also used in the calculation Return on shareholders’ equity measures the return generof return on capital employed. ated on shareholders’ capital invested in the company. ELEKTA ANNUAL REPORT 2019/20 145 Return on shareholders’ equity Days sales outstanding (DSO) SEK M 2015/16 2016/17 2017/18 2018/19 2019/20 SEK M 2015/16 2016/17 2017/18 2018/19 2019/20 Profit for the year 137 125 1,348 1,198 1,084 Accounts receivable 3,301 3,726 3,402 3,455 3,379 Average shareholders’ Accrued income 2,126 1,640 1,160 1,401 1,526 equity excluding non-­ Advances from controlling interests ­customers –1,943 –2,531 –5,316 –4,883 –4,103 (last five quarters) 6,587 6,541 6,015 7,167 7,967 Prepaid income –1,648 –1,874 –1,990 –2,170 –2,226 Return on shareholders’ Net receivable equity, % 2 2 22 17 14 from customers 1,836 961 –2,744 –2,198 –1,424 Net sales 11,221 10,704 11,573 13,555 14,601 Interest cover ratio Number of days 365 365 365 365 365 The interest coverage ratio shows how much result that is Net sales per day 31 29 32 37 40 available to pay interest on outstanding debt. Days sales out­ standing (DSO) 60 33 –87 –59 –36 Interest cover ratio Net debt and net debt/EBITDA ratio SEK M 2015/16 2016/17 2017/18 2018/19 2019/20 Net debt is important to understand the financial stability of the company. Net debt and net debt/EBITDA ratio is used by EBITDA 1,057 1,253 2,520 2,639 2,931 management to track the debt evolvement and to analyze Interest expenses 240 209 163 156 163 the leverage and refinancing need of the Group. Interest cover ratio, multiple 4.4 6.0 15.5 16.9 18.0 Net debt Operational cash conversion Cash flow is a focus area for management. The operational SEK M 2015/16 2016/17 2017/18 2018/19 2019/20 cash conversion shows the relation between cash flow from Long-term interest-­ operating activities and EBITDA. bearing liabilities 3,065 5,272 4,369 3,558 7,101 Short-term interest-­ bearing liabilities 1,885 0 975 1,000 1,001 Operational cash conversion Cash and cash equivalents and shortSEK M 2015/16 2016/17 2017/18 2018/19 2019/20 term investments –2,273 –3,383 –4,541 –4,119 –6,470 Net debt 2,677 1,889 803 439 1,632 Cash flow from operating activities 1,170 1,819 2,404 1,621 1,014 EBITDA 1,057 1,253 2,520 2,639 2,931 Operational cash Net debt/EBITDA ratio ­conversion, % 111 145 95 61 35 SEK M 2015/16 2016/17 2017/18 2018/19 2019/20 Working capital Net debt 2,677 1,889 803 439 1,632 In order to optimize cash generation, management focuses EBITDA 1,057 1,253 2,520 2,639 2,931 on working capital and reducing lead times between orders Net debt /EBITDA booked and cash received. A reconciliation of working capital ratio, multiple 2.53 1.51 0.32 0.17 0.56 to items in the balance sheet is presented on page 95. Equity/assets ratio Days sales outstanding (DSO) The equity/assets ratio gives an indication of the financial DSO is used by management to follow the development of flexibility and independence to operate and manage variaoverall payment terms to customers, which have significant tions in working capital needs as well as to capitalize on busiimpact on working capital and cash flow. ness opportunities. Equity/assets ratio SEK M 2015/16 2016/17 2017/18 2018/19 2019/20 Shareholders’ equity 6,412 6,774 6,987 7,779 8,113 Total assets 19,441 20,950 23,760 24,064 28,411 Equity/assets ratio, % 33 32 29 32 29 146 ELEKTA ANNUAL REPORT 2019/20 Five year review and key figures Income statement SEK M 2015/161) 2016/171) 2017/18 2018/19 2019/20 Net sales 11,221 10,704 11,573 13,555 14,601 Operating expenses excl. amortization and depreciation –10,1642) –9,4513) –9,053 –10,916 –11,670 Depreciation –165 –156 –151 –162 –410 EBITA 892 1,097 2,369 2,477 2,521 Amortization –469 –499 –524 –781 –865 EBIT / Operating result 423 598 1,845 1,696 1,657 Financial net –234 –258 –164 –116 –203 Profit before tax 189 340 1,681 1,580 1,454 Taxes –44 –214 –333 –382 –370 Profit for the year 145 126 1,348 1,198 1,084 Attributable to: Parent Company shareholders 137 125 1,348 1,198 1,084 Non-controlling interests 8 1 0 0 0 1) Calculation based on IAS18 2) Including items affecting comparability amounting to SEK –598 M 3) Including items affecting comparability amounting to SEK –518 M Cash flow SEK M 2015/161) 2016/171) 2017/18 2018/19 2019/20 Operating cash flow 709 767 2,357 2,256 2,526 Changes in working capital 461 1,051 47 –636 –1,512 Cash flow from operating activities 1,170 1,819 2,404 1,621 1,014 Continuous investments –774 –774 –816 –658 –761 Cash flow after continuous investments 396 1,045 1,589 962 252 Short-term investments – – –83 38 –26 Acquisition of operations –12 –18 –58 –54 –511 Cash flow from investing activities –786 –792 –957 –674 –1,298 Cash flow after investments 384 1,027 1,447 946 –284 Cash flow from financing activities –1,303 –55 –367 –1,473 2,624 Cash flow for the year –920 972 1,080 –527 2,339 1) Calculation based on IAS18 Balance sheet SEK M April 30, 20161) April 30, 20171) April 30, 2018 April 30, 2019 April 30, 2020 Intangible assets 8,210 8,704 9,175 9,301 9,469 Right-of-use assets – – – – 1,156 Tangible fixed assets 803 795 895 957 968 Financial assets 364 308 261 508 748 Deferred tax assets 281 375 350 402 504 Inventories 1,135 936 2,560 2,634 2,748 Receivables 6,375 6,450 5,978 6,144 6,348 Short-term investments – – 83 45 62 Cash and cash equivalents 2,273 3,383 4,458 4,073 6,407 Total assets 19,441 20,950 23,760 24,064 28,411 Shareholders’ equity 6,412 6,774 6,987 7,779 8,113 Interest-bearing liabilities 4,950 5,272 5,344 4,558 8,102 Lease liabilities – – – – 1,256 Non interest-bearing liabilities 8,079 8,905 11,429 11,727 10,940 Total shareholders’ equity and liabilities 19,441 20,950 23,760 24,064 28,411 1) Calculation based on IAS18 ELEKTA ANNUAL REPORT 2019/20 147 Key figures 2015/161) 2016/171) 2017/18 2018/19 2019/20 Gross order intake, SEK M 13,821 14,064 14,493 16,796 17,735 Net order intake, SEK M 12,880 n/a n/a n/a n/a Order backlog, SEK M 18,239 22,459 27,974 32,003 34,689 Operating margin, % 4 6 16 13 11 Profit margin, % 2 3 15 12 10 Shareholders' equity, SEK M 6,412 6,774 6,987 7,779 8,113 Capital employed, SEK M 11,360 12,046 12,331 12,337 17,472 Net debt, SEK M 2,677 1,889 803 439 1,632 Equity/Assets ratio, % 33 32 29 32 29 Net debt /EBITDA ratio, multiple 2.53 1.51 0.32 0.17 0.56 Interest cover ratio, multiple 4.4 6.0 15.5 16.9 18.0 Return on shareholders' equity, % 2 2 22 17 14 Return on capital employed, % 4 5 17 15 12 Investments in tangible and intangible assets, SEK M 874 681 861 660 761 Depreciation and amortization, SEK M –634 –655 –675 –943 –1,275 Operational cash conversion, % 111 145 95 61 35 Average number of employees 3,677 3,581 3,702 3,798 4,117 1) Calculation based on IAS18 Equity and Equity/Assets ratio Cash flow after continuous investments SEK M % SEK M 10,000 50 4,500 8,000 40 3,000 6,000 30 1,500 4,000 20 0 2,000 10 –1,500 0 0 –3,000 15/16 16/17 17/18 18/19 19/20 15/16 16/17 17/18 18/19 19/20 Equity Equity/assets ratio Operating flow Change in working Continous capital investments EBITA Net sales and Profit before tax SEK M SEK M 3,000 15,000 12,000 2,000 9,000 6,000 1,000 3,000 0 0 15/16 16/17 17/18 18/19 19/20 15/16 16/17 17/18 18/19 19/20 Profit before tax Net sales 148 ELEKTA ANNUAL REPORT 2019/20 Annual General Meeting (AGM) 2020 The AGM of Elekta AB (publ) will be held on Wednesday 26 at the AGM. Questions can instead be sent in advance by post August 2020. Due to the extraordinary situation as a result of to Elekta AB (publ), Attn Head of Investor Relations, P.O. the Covid-19 pandemic, the AGM will be held in a different Box 7593, 103 93 Stockholm, ­Sweden, or via e-mail to way than usually. In order to reduce the risk of spreading the cecilia.ketels@elekta.com or by telephone +46 76 611 76 25, no new coronavirus and having regard to the authorities’ regulalater than on 17 August 2020. The Acting President & CEO will tions and advice on avoiding public gatherings, the company address questions from shareholders in a presentation that will has decided to carry out the AGM through advance voting be available digitally on www.elekta.com, on 26 August 2020. (postal voting) pursuant to temporary legislation. No meeting with the possibility to attend in person or to be represented by a proxy will take place, i.e. the AGM will be held without physical presence. AGM 2020 Shareholders who wish to exercise their voting rights at the AGM shall be registered in the register of shareholders on L ast day for sending in potential questions to Acting President and CEO 17 Aug Thursday 20 August 2020, and notify by casting its advance Record date 20 Aug vote no later than Tuesday 25 August. This through a special Last day for voting 25 Aug form or electronically through BankID verification, both Final day of trading in Elekta shares approaches handled via www.elekta.com. For other instrucincluding the right to the dividend 26 Aug tions see under the heading Advance voting in the Notice of AGM 26 Aug the Annual General Meeting that will be published no later Record date for payment of dividends 28 Aug than four week prior to the AGM. Payment date for dividends 2 Sep Since no AGM with the opportunity to attend in person or by proxy will be held, there will be no opportunity to ask questions Financial calendar Interim report, Q1 May–Jul 2020/21 Aug 26, 2020 Annual General Meeting Aug 26, 2020 Interim report, Q2 May–Oct 2020/21 Nov 26, 2020 Interim report, Q3 May–Jan 2020/21 Feb 25, 2021 Year–end report 2020/21 May 27, 2021 Regulatory status of products This document presents Elekta’s product portfolio. Certain products or functionality described may be works in progress and/ or pending regulatory approval for certain markets. Forward looking statements This report may include forward-looking statements including, but not limited to, statements relating to operational and financial performance, market conditions, and other similar matters. These forward-looking statements are based on current expectations about future events. Although the expectations described in these statements are assumed to be reasonable, there is no guarantee that such forward-looking statements will materialize or are accurate. Because these statements involve assumptions and estimates that are subject to risks and uncertainties, results could differ materially from those set out in the statement. Certain of these risks and uncertainties are described further in the section Risks on page 30. Elekta undertakes no obligation to publicly update or revise any forward-looking statements, whether as a result of new information, future events or otherwise, except as required by law or stock exchange regulation. © 2020 Elekta AB (publ) All marks identified as a trademark (™) or a registered trademark (®) are the property of the Elekta Group. All rights reserved. No part of this document may be reproduced in any form without written permission from the copyright holder. Production: Elekta’s Investor Relations and Finance Team, in cooperation with Solberg. Photo: Getty Images, Magnus Fond and Shutterstock. Elekta AB Box 7593 SE – 103 93 Stockholm, Sweden T +46 8 587 254 00 F +46 8 587 255 00 elekta.com /elekta @elekta /company/elekta
