Global Impact Report Annual Progress Period April 2019 to March 2020 CUSTOMER ENGAGEMENT REIMAGINED CSS CORP is committed to creating value for its customers, employees and communities ` CEO Message The year 2020 has been a challenging one for all, but despite the odds, CSS Corp continued to create long-term value for its clients, employees and the society at large by committing to innovative, sustainable business practices across the globe. We are pleased to present the 6th CSS Corp 2020 Annual Sustainability Report. The report highlights the success we have had in putting technology and resources to work by ensuring day to day sustainable business practices. These continue to be in the area of energy efficiency and virtualization of servers leading to Manish Tandon reduced greenhouse gas emissions and a scientific based approach to the destruction and reduction of waste. Chief Executive Officer CSS Corp Pvt. Ltd As an organization, we have an obligation to improve our society. Our CSR efforts continue to transform the community through skills-based development programs. Over 1000 final year college students from lesser privileged groups were trained in soft and technical areas leading to better employment and career opportunities. The pandemic may have tested our system, but at the same time it has only strengthened our resolve to be committed to our clients, partners and the larger community. Our obligations to the principles of UNGC emboldened the organization's business continuity while ensuring its employees stay healthy and safe. As we navigate these uncertain times, we would like to affirm that CSS Corp continues its commitment to the principles of the UNGC. Table of Contents About CSS Corp ........................................................................................................................... 4 Introduction ................................................................................................................................... 6 Key Strategic Areas ...................................................................................................................... 8 Environment ................................................................................................................................ 11 Human Rights .............................................................................................................................. 18 Labour .......................................................................................................................................... 20 Anti-Corruption ........................................................................................................................... 25 Corporate Social Responsibility ............................................................................................... 27 Industry Accolades .................................................................................................................... 30 Our Global Presence ................................................................................................................... 33 www.csscorp.com Page 3 of 34 Customer Engagement Reimagined About CSS Corp CSS Corp is a new-age IT services and technology support company that harnesses the power of AI, automation, analytics, cloud, and digital to address customer needs. The company partners with leading enterprises to help realize their strategic business outcomes. Its team of over 8000+ technology professionals across 18 global locations is passionate about helping customers differentiate and succeed. . www.csscorp.com Page 4 of 34 Customer Engagement Reimagined Our Services CSS Corp offers a suite of technology-driven, customer-centric services that enables clients reimagine their customers’ experience ranging from technical support to infrastructure management. Our services help clients generate operational efficiencies, build new revenue streams, identify new growth opportunities. We specialize in transforming and managing the entire value chain for companies in Technology, Media and Telecom, Retail and CPG, Automotive, Gaming, BFSI, Healthcare, and Education industry. Customer Experience Management Services Customer Acquisition, Customer Service, Technical Support, Premium Support Services, & more. Enterprise Support Services Technical Support, Customer Support, Customer Success, Professional Services, Inside sales services & more. INCS (Infrastructure, Network, Cloud, and Security Services) Managed Infra, Network Services, Cloud Services, End-user Computing Services, Managed Security Services. Digital Engineering Services Application Modernization, Mobile/ Web Development, Cognitive Analytics, Chatbots, Virtual Assistance, & more. Geospatial Technology Services GIS Consulting, Data Acquisition Services, Data Processing and Content Management, Spatial Analytics and Insights, & more. www.csscorp.com Page 5 of 34 Customer Engagement Reimagined Introduction Sustainability and Corporate Social Responsibility (CSR) at CSS Corp play crucial roles for overall success of the organization, strengthens stakeholder’s association and creates positive change among us. Our progress in implementation has been recorded across listed verticals and locations. www.csscorp.com Page 6 of 34 Customer Engagement Reimagined This report is prepared based on following guidelines. 1. Principles of the United Nations Global Compact The environment, social and governance (ESG) practices are categorized according to United Nations Global Compact principles of Environment, Human Rights, Labour and Anti-Corruption. 2. Applicable SDG’s The 2030 agenda for Sustainable Development, including the 17 Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs), are global objectives that succeeded the Millennium Development Goals. From 17 SDG’s 6 are applicable to our business practices. 8 Decent work and economic growth Climate action 13 Sustainable Development 11 Sustainable cities and communities Goals Life on land 15 Responsible Peace justice 12 consumption and and strong 16 production institutions 3. Applicable Protocol & ISO Standard The greenhouse gas (GHG) protocol and ISO 14064-1 standard are used to understand, quantify, and manage our greenhouse gas emissions. The GHG emissions are categorized under: Scope 1 Direct GHG emissions & removals Other indirect GHG emissions Scope 3 Scope 2 Energy indirect GHG emissions www.csscorp.com Page 7 of 34 Customer Engagement Reimagined Key Strategic Areas www.csscorp.com Page 8 of 34 Customer Engagement Reimagined Environment The impact on the environment from our activities is clear. The well-being of personals, communities and the planet is inextricably tied to the health of the business. We try by all means to better our environmental footprint. GHG Emissions Printing Paper Recycling & Waste Reduction Business Travel IT Operations E-Waste Water Conservation www.csscorp.com Page 9 of 34 Customer Engagement Reimagined Labour Human Rights Rooting standards into organization Creating a diverse and inclusive strategies towards adoption of no child workplace, provision for multi stake labour, equal opportunity, safe working holder dialogue and respecting rights of conditions, employee training and all personals. awareness. Responsible Sourcing Training & Development Work Culture Employee Sustainability Safety Anti – Corruption Corporate Social Responsibility Policies on Anti-Bribery and AntiUse the power of our business to create Corruption forbids the giving or taking of a better world and bring about a positive bribes in any form and protects whistle social change. A CSR strategy is blowers from retaliation. established to meet the organization and social obligations. Anti-Bribery & Skill Development Anti-Corruption www.csscorp.com Page 10 of 34 Customer Engagement Reimagined Environment Energy Efficiency & Environment Management www.csscorp.com Page 11 of 34 Customer Engagement Reimagined Assessment, Policy and Goals: Consistent and continuing emphasis on reducing energy levels, including monitoring of energy consumption trends, identification of reduction opportunities and technology upgradation continue to be on the priority list. We have a well articulated overarching sustainability policy to help us integrate our sustainability goals into our business processes. Implementation: Electricity – Usage of energy efficient lighting, better floor space utilization and optimization of heating ventilation and air conditioning (HVAC) systems across facilities have resulted in significant power reduction. Printing Paper Reduction – By using automated processes like paperless performance appraisals, digital signatures, E-resignations and pay slips. Usage of lower GSM papers and mobile bill digitization has also resulted in continued reduction of paper consumption. Recycling & Waste Generation – Reduction in consumption of paper cups have resulted in reduction of waste generation. Recycling of used papers and paper products are also adopted. Business Travel – Internal processes ensures travel in Kilometers (KM) are monitored for all three modes of travel i.e., road, rail and air (cab bookings organized by CSS Corp alone are considered). Water Conservation – Collection, storage and usage of rainwater for general needs, instead of using tanker water at MEPZ, Chennai facility. IT Operations – Datacenter equipment’s consume significant amount of power to keep running. With digitization, the datacenter resource demand is always on an upward trajectory resulting in ever increasing power requirements. Hence it is very important to ensure datacenter systems are deployed and maintained by adopting new technologies to optimize power consumption. E-Waste – Responsible disposal of electrical and electronic wastes through authorized re-cyclers. www.csscorp.com Page 12 of 34 Customer Engagement Reimagined Outcome: Greenhouse Gas (GHG) Emissions Climate action 13 There has been an overall reduction in Scope 2 global GHG emissions of 1,48,904 KGCO2e (Kilogram of Carbon di Oxide equivalent). Scope 2 emissions covers electricity from grid, diesel generators, heating and cooling energy obtained from other sources. A decrease in Scope 1 emission from CSS Corp operated diesel generators and vehicles of 8,312 KGCO 2e. (Note: FY’19 data have been revised due to incorporation of additional facility). Decrease in Global Direct GHG Emissions Energy Indirect GHG Emissions Scope 2 Emissions (KGCO2e) (KGCO2e) (%) FY'20, 7109860 FY'20, 17407 2.1 FY'19, 25719 FY'19, 7258764 Electricity Climate action 13 Electricity is accounted from usage as follows: 1. Electricity generated by respective electricity board. Global Electricity Consumption 2. Electricity generated through diesel generator and owned by facility Reduction provider. (%) 3. Electricity generated through diesel generators owned by CSS Corp. Global Electricity consumption stands at 90,39,243 Kilo Watt hour (KWhr) during the reporting period. Total reduction in electricity consumption is 1,27,640 KWhr 1.4 during this period. www.csscorp.com Page 13 of 34 Customer Engagement Reimagined Responsible Printing Paper: consumption and production 12 Reduced paper consumption through digitization of mobile bills (This is an awardPrinting Paper Consumption Reduction winning initiative) and frequent optimization of travel management system, (Rims) employee transport system and transport navigation system. Overall, more than 10% reduction in paper consumption. 224 The reduction was equivalent to 549 KG of paper; prevented axing of 9 fully grown trees. Responsible Recycling & Waste Generation Reduction: consumption and production 12 15 I. Recycling of wastepaper and paper products has: Life on land • Prevented axing of 124 fully grown trees. • Reduced consumption of 1,49,316 liters of water. • Reduced electricity consumption of 2,536 KWhr. Recycling of Wastepaper & Products (KG) Reduced occupation of 6.2 cubic meter of landfill space. • 5635 • Reduced 5.1 metric ton of carbon dioxide that contributes to climatic changes. II. Introduction of reusable melamine cups at water dispensers. Introducing Paper Cup Reduction “Bring Your Mug” concept has resulted in significant reduction in paper (Numbers) cup consumption. We have been able to reduce more than 95% of dependency on paper cups usage. 90059 www.csscorp.com Page 14 of 34 Customer Engagement Reimagined Business Travel Climate action 13 Carbon emissions arising from global business travel through flight, bus, train and Other indirect GHG Emissions hired cabs are monitored and accounted. There has been a reduction of around (KGCO2e) 25% in GHG emissions. This has been due to more usage of public transport, virtual meetings, and planned travels. FY'20, 1657882 Cabs self-arranged by employees for business needs, vehicles provided by CSS Corp for employee daily commutation from home and office are not captured under Scope III or other indirect GHG emissions. FY'19, 2205386 Rainwater Harvesting Sustainable cities and communities 11 At CSS Corp, in our MEPZ facility, Chennai; water is procured through water Reduction in Ground Water tankers. This water is used across the washrooms for regular human needs. To Consumption (KL/Year) minimize the dependency on ground water, two rainwater filters were installed, this filter works on cohesive and centrifugal forces and covers 7,420 Square Feet 780 of roof top area. The water through this filter is collected in 7,000 Liter tanks placed above ground and excess from this is sent to an underground water collection sump. The overall excess rainwater is sent to a rainwater percolation pit to recharge the ground water. There are no chemicals used for treatment of rainwater. (This is an award-winning initiative.) www.csscorp.com Page 15 of 34 Customer Engagement Reimagined IT Operations: Climate action 13 Data center equipment’s consume significant amount of power to keep running. Virtual Server Work Loads With digitization being the norm, the data center resource demand has always (%) seen an upward trajectory, resulting in ever increasing power requirements. Hence, it is very important to ensure data center systems are deployed and maintained by adopting new technologies to optimize power consumption. At CSS Corp, we have been consciously making efforts to optimize data center power usage by investing in various technologies. One of the important ways we 93 handled this, was by adopting server virtualization. CSS Corp’s IT environment is highly virtualized. Instead of deploying several physical servers, we utilize server virtualization technology to meet compute demand. By adopting this virtualization technology, several servers are virtually run on few physical servers by sharing underlying compute resources. This ensure optimal utilization of physical resources, thus reducing physical server estate, power, and cooling requirements. Way forward: We are also planning to migrate our contact center platform from physical servers to a virtual platform and adopt cloud-based cyber security products to reduce data center footprint. Benefits: 1. Reduction in physical server footprint. 2. Reduction in power supply requirements. 3. Optimal utilization of physical server resources by multiple virtual servers. 4. Reduced cooling system requirements. www.csscorp.com Page 16 of 34 Customer Engagement Reimagined Electronic-Waste: Life on land 15 E-Waste generated globally is rigorously monitored and handed over to Total E-waste Generated authorized recyclers instead of handing them to the informal recyclers which then Disposed Responsibly ends up in landfills. E-Waste includes CPU, laptops, monitors, scanners, etc. This (%) leads to reduction in environment hazards & improvement of health of those employed in unorganized recycling at landfills. In total 10,173 Kilo Gram (KG) of E-Waste was recycled through authorized recyclers. 100 Electrical-Waste Life on land 15 Wastes such as bulbs, capacitors, coils, etc., are disposed through authorized Electrical Waste Generated Disposed destructors instead of disposing in landfills. This leads to reduction in environment Responsibly (KG) hazards and occupying space in landfills. 603 www.csscorp.com Page 17 of 34 Customer Engagement Reimagined Human Rights Work Culture Sustainability www.csscorp.com Page 18 of 34 Customer Engagement Reimagined Assessment, policy and goals: CSS Corp upholds Human Rights principles and applies them uniformly across the organization. At CSS Corp, we believe in conducting organizational affairs in a fair and transparent manner by adopting the highest standards of ethics, honesty, integrity and professionalism while developing a culture of high integrity and transparency. The company is committed to creating a workplace free from sexual harassment, with zero tolerance toward such violations. We have a comprehensive Anti-Sexual harassment policy that is compliant with prevailing laws and regulations. Implementation: • A strong employee grievance redressal mechanism enables employees to voice concerns and have them addressed. Our Whistleblower Policy, already in place, provides an effective mechanism to disclose alleged wrong doings within the organization in a responsible and effective manner, without any fear of victimization or adverse action. • Anti-sexual harassment policy and program (ASHP) ensures employees are trained by external experts in the field of sexual harassment at the workplace. The system and the communication is strengthened by an AntiSexual Harassment Program training across all our locations for all our staff, both permanent and contractual. Training is conducted in English and local languages to ensure 100% coverage. Decent work Outcome: and economic growth 8 • We have zero tolerance to sexual harassment. Attending Anti-Sexual Closure of Cases within SLA Harassment Program is mandatory for all new employees. Also, the Anti(%) Sexual harassment training program is conducted for housekeeping and contract staffs. In addition, the program is conducted in vernacular languages to ensure 100% understanding and effectiveness. We sensitize all employees through e-mail communications on an annual basis and new joiners through induction training or through the induction manual. Quarterly reporting of all cases pertaining to sexual harassment of women 100 is reported to the CEO. www.csscorp.com Page 19 of 34 Customer Engagement Reimagined Labour Training & Development Responsible Sourcing Employee Safety www.csscorp.com Page 20 of 34 Customer Engagement Reimagined Assessment, policy and goals: Training & Development: The people development framework of CSS Corp continues to create a learning organization culture to address the needs of our growing organization. Responsible Sourcing: Mitigating supply chain risks through CSS Corp Supplier Code of Conduct (SCC) guidelines. SCC requires suppliers to adhere to set guidelines. The policy covers forced or compulsory labour, prohibition on child labour, equal employment opportunity & nondiscrimination or non-harassment, wages & benefits, environment health & safety, business relationships and compliance with anti-bribery laws. Employee Safety: Travel, work environment and ergonomics are being considered as hazards within the organization and adequate processes are implemented to mitigate these hazards. We have a written down policy for employee safety. Implementation: Training & Development: Training programs are available for both technical and non-technical (Soft Skills & Behavioral) competencies. These training programs are well categorized based on pre-hiring, post-hiring (new-hire training) & continuous learning. Responsible Sourcing: We have written down our policy for SCC. Employee Safety: Travel hazard – CSS Corp provides a free-to-download application software under the Android platform, which provides real time status to employees and the driver. The app has provision/buttons to provide real-time feedback by employees on rash driving, over speeding & SOS functions. Route optimization is carried out for short driving times. Driver loading and performance is monitored by CSS Corp’s Employee Transport System (CETS) back office staff. Work Environment and Ergonomics hazard – An internal web portal is available to all employees through which they can key in the problem description, and action is taken appropriately. www.csscorp.com Page 21 of 34 Customer Engagement Reimagined Outcome: Decent Work Training & Development: and economic growth 8 Skill + Outreach Program An employee initiative from CSS Corp this is a program to bridge the gap between Number of Students Benefited with Skill the academia and industry. It enhances the employability skills of students passing + Outreach Program out of colleges and universities. 224 Tech Career CSS Corp has partnered with the World HRD Congress for the endorsement of “Talent leadership strategy for the future” Award. There are over 300 hours’ worth of learning offered to the student community free of cost. Connecting CSS Corp with the academia as a talent engagement tool helps to stay connected with students. This greatly enhances student-employee conversion ratio. Skill+ Learning Academy Skill+ is the Learning & Development arm of CSS Corp. It addresses the learning needs of employees during their entire lifecycle including pre/new hires and provides a framework for continuous learning. CSS Corp Virtual University (Powered by Massive Open Online Course (MOOCs)): Learning is a continuous activity. At CSS Corp, our virtual university helps employees to learn and grow. The program promotes self-learning, knowledge sharing, collaborative learning, and creates a vibrant learning culture within the organization. Key benefits of the CSS Corp Virtual University • Align our course offerings to address the business & employee needs. • Learning through the Moodle based Learning Management System (LMS) branded as Global Training Portal. • Collaborative Learning & knowledge sharing through Forums. • “Certificate of Completion” from MOOC providers. • Leveraging Best Minds Leader Speaks, Client Speaks, Industry Expert speaks series in Virtual Contact Classes. Types of Learning Channels – caters to diverse preferences of varying audience • Channel 1: e-learning powered by MOOCs. • Channel 2: Learning communities. • Channel 3: Virtual Contact Classes Leader Speaks, Client Speaks, Industry Expert Speaks series. Career Aspirations Management Program (CAMP) Career transformation through structured training intervention to facilitate technical and managerial progression. www.csscorp.com Page 22 of 34 Customer Engagement Reimagined Pipeline Creation A framework that provides vertical growth for high potential in the Technical domain through a structured and a holistic development framework. Stepping up to Management (First time Managers Program) • A mandatory program to empower first-time managers. • To build high performing and engaging teams. • Superlative Customer Experience. • Enhanced value for individuals, teams and clients. Content Development Framework as a Service Using Lightboard Solutions • “The Lightboard” (learning glass) enables trainers /SMEs to create video content that is closer to the ‘real’ classroom experience, augmented with live graphics overlay. Lightboard tutorials, when combined with a suitable online learning environment, are the perfect supplement to the classroom. • Using the Lightboard solution, we have made more than 50+videos in soft skills & technology. Advantages of Lightboard Solutions • Ideal for delivering concepts & high-end technology training. • Personalized learning experience. • Gives a feel of instructor-led training. • Enhance the effectiveness of instructional video. • Graphics and PowerPoint overlay possible with the live lecture. • Rapid turnaround time. • Reduces trainer dependency. • Facilitates Self-phased learning. • Reusability and repeatability of content. www.csscorp.com Page 23 of 34 Customer Engagement Reimagined Decent work and economic growth 8 Responsible Sourcing: Responsible The SCC policy is shared with critical vendors globally during vendor registration. Consumption and production 12 Decent work Employee Safety: and economic growth 8 CSS Corp provides transport facilities for its employees who opt for company provided transport at identified locations. Hence, providing employee safety is necessary. We have a Travel Management System (TMS) along with androidbased mobile application systems like CSS Corp’s Employee Transport System (CETS) App for employees and Transport Navigation System (TABNav) App for cab drivers. Percentage of Accidents Occurred from Fatality OF Employees from Travel Total Employees Travelled Through CETS Arranged by CSS Corp CETS (%) 0.01 NIL www.csscorp.com Page 24 of 34 Customer Engagement Reimagined Anti-Corruption Anti-Bribery & Anti-Corruption www.csscorp.com Page 25 of 34 Customer Engagement Reimagined Peace justice Assessment, policy and goals: and strong institutions 16 CSS Corp’s policy on Anti-Bribery and Anti-Corruption forbids the giving or taking of bribes in any form to secure business, and protects whistle blowers from retaliation. This policy is regularly reviewed to ensure it reflects any regulatory changes and developments in acceptable standards. Employees are sensitized to identify and avoid situations which are at odds with the policy. We have a global policy for Anti-Bribery and Anti-Corruption. Implementation: This policy is regularly reviewed to ensure it reflects any regulatory changes and developments in acceptable standards. Changes are communicated across the organization via internal portals through responsible officers. Employees are sensitized to identify and avoid situations that are at odds with the policy. Outcome: Bribery and corruption cases Zero incidents have been reported. Registered NIL www.csscorp.com Page 26 of 34 Customer Engagement Reimagined Corporate Social Responsibility www.csscorp.com Page 27 of 34 Customer Engagement Reimagined Decent work Corporate Social Responsibility and economic growth 8 CSS Corp in partnership with ICT Academy, has trained over 1,000 youths in the past one year on employability skills. This program was part of an initiative started in March 2019. As a part of this initiative, CSS Corp held an extensive training program to skill the youth of rural, urban and low-income family groups in Tamil Nadu, India on the latest technology and soft skills that helped them to be employable in leading IT companies across the nation. As a result, out of the total trained candidates, close to 667 students have received offer letters from other reputed companies in the country. The training programs were conducted in 20 colleges across Tamil Nadu that provided 100 hours of intensive activitybased training in soft and technical support skills for over 1000 final year graduating students from engineering, arts and science colleges located in the rural and sub-urban areas of the state. M.Sc B.E 445 22 565 Number of B.Tech B.Sc Students trained 227 85 1010 BCA 565 MCA 1010 51 60 URBAN 288 Number of Students placed 400 RURAL 667 379 610 A special focus was on encouraging women participation, in line with CSS Corp’s objective to empower women in the technology sector, which helped secure close to 600 female participants (of the 1000 plus) in the program. The students were mentored by CSS Corp employees with career guidances, mock interviews and group discussions. www.csscorp.com Page 28 of 34 Customer Engagement Reimagined CSS Corp has signed another MOU with ICT Academy towards training a fresh batch of 1,200 students in the states of Tamil Nadu & Karnataka this year. Training will be based on soft skills, tech support skills and emerging technologies (Angular, JavaScript Development Suite, RPA, Selenium 3.0 and SQL database). www.csscorp.com Page 29 of 34 Customer Engagement Reimagined Industry Accolades www.csscorp.com Page 30 of 34 Customer Engagement Reimagined Industry Accolades Awards Received from Apr 2019 – Mar 2020 Winner in the category “Innovation & Technology” at the 4th edition of March 1. iNFHRA’ s Workplace Excellence Conference & Awards. 2020 CSS Corp recognized as the Outsource Partner of the Year in the 2020 BIG March 2. Excellence in Customer Service Awards. 2020 CSS Corp has won a Gold Stevie at the 14th Annual Stevie® Awards for March 3. Sales & Customer Service 2020 in the Outsourcing Provider of the Year category. 2020 CSS Corp has won the 2020 BIG Innovation Awards presented by the Jan 4. Business Intelligence Group for its Digital Customer Experience Platform. 2020 CSS Corp recognized as a runner-up at PoSH (Prevention of Sexual Jan 5. Harassment) Awards 2020 in the 'Best Organization for Preventing Sexual 2020 Harassment' category. CSS Corp won Gold at the 11th Annual 2019 Golden Bridge Awards in the Oct 6. Best Solutions of the Year category. 2019 CSS Corp has won the 2019 Tech Ascension Awards and been recognized Oct 7. as the Best Big Data Analytics Services Provider. 2019 CSS Corp won the 3rd Digital Enterprise Award 2019 for Excellence in Oct 8. Digital Customer Experience. 2019 Manish Tandon recognized as the CEO of the Year at CMO Asia Awards, Sep 9. 2019 for transforming CSS Corp into a new age digital services 2019 organization. CSS Corp won the NASSCOM Customer Service Excellence Award 2019 Sep 10. in the “Transformation” category for its Managed Services Partnership (MSP) model. 2019 www.csscorp.com Page 31 of 34 Customer Engagement Reimagined Awards Received from Apr 2019 – Mar 2020 CSS Corp won the Gold Stevie® Award in the “Best Technical Support Aug 11 Solution – Computer Services” category at the 16th Annual International 2019 Business Awards® 2019. CSS Corp has won the CMO Asia Award 2019 for Brand Excellence in Aug 12 IT/ITeS Sector. 2019 CSS Corp won the Silver Trophy by ‘OHSSAI Foundation’ for Jul 13 ‘Sustainability’ at ‘OHSSAI 4th Annual HSE Excellence & Sustainability 2019 Awards 2019’. CSS Corp won the ‘Solution Provider of the Year: People’s Choice’ award Jun 14 at Incite Customer Service Awards 2019, recognized for our Cognitive CX 2019 portfolio. CSS Corp won ‘The Golden Globe Tigers 2019 Awards’ from CMO Asia Apr 15 Group, recognized in the Business Innovation category for our intelligent automation capabilities. 2019 CSS Corp won at the ‘India Sustainability Summit & Awards 2019’ for Apr 16 ‘Carbon Emission Reductions’ conducted by Transformance Forums. 2019 CSS Corp won the “SmartTech Award for the Best Use of Emerging Apr 17 Technologies by IMC Digital Technology Award 20182019, chosen for our Artificial Intelligence in Customer Service Management. 2019 www.csscorp.com Page 32 of 34 Customer Engagement Reimagined Our Global Presence NEW JERSEY, NJ WROCLAW, POLAND China MILPITAS, CA Sales & Client Support Delivery Center Sales & Client Support HYDERABAD, INDIA 100 400 Delivery Center Costa Rica 8000+ 210 Employees DALIAN, CHINA Delivery Center India COLOMBIA (Proposed) Delivery Center 100 MANILA, PHILIPPINES (3) DRAPER, UT, USA Delivery Center 125+ Delivery Center 2000 Mauritius Clients BANGALORE,(2) INDIA AUSTIN, TX, USA 50 Delivery Centers Delivery Center LONDON, U.K. DALLAS, TX, USA Sales & Client Support Regional Office 700 18 Global COSTA RICA (3) 1000 MAURITIUS Delivery Center Delivery Center 3700 Centers Poland 50 CHENNAI,(3) INDIA Delivery Centers Delivery Centers Sales Offices United States www.csscorp.com Page 33 of 34 Customer Engagement Reimagined Our Global Presence ` Mail us at Sustainability.CSS@csscorp.com (or) Shelton.Victor@csscorp.com www.csscorp.com www.csscorp.com Page 34 of 34 Customer Engagement Reimagine
