REFINITIV SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2019 1/50 PLEASE DO NOT PRINT THIS DOCUMENT This report has been set up to be read on-screen rather than in print, so we can help keep our carbon footprint as low as possible. Small steps can lead to big change. Please use your right and left keys to navigate the journey. 2/50 ABOUT OUR BUSINESS Serving more than 40,000 institutions in approximately 190 countries, Refinitiv serves over 40,000 Refinitiv provides information, insights and technology that drive innovation and performance in global financial markets. Our heritage of integrity enables our customers to make critical decisions with confidence while our best-in-class data and cutting-edge technologies institutions in enable greater opportunity. We enable the financial community with approximately data and infrastructure to drive performance in trading, investment, 190 countries wealth management, regulatory compliance, market data management, enterprise risk and fighting financial crime. 3/50 ABOUT THIS REPORT This is Refinitiv’s second report covering our approach to sustainability across the business. It provides information and data across our global operations from January 1 to December 31, 2019. We welcome your views on all aspects of the report. Please send your feedback to sustainableleadership@refinitiv.com. You can view this report online at www.refinitiv.com/sustainability. 4/50 CONTENTS INTRODUCTION FROM DAVID CRAIG, CEO 6 BEING A RESPONSIBLE BUSINESS 7 Values and ethics Governance Global sustainability pledges 2019 achievements 2020 priorities A decade of action A CLOSER LOOK 15 Lightening our environmental footprint Reflecting and supporting the communities where we operate Diversity & inclusion Putting sustainability at the core of our product offering Working collaboratively with our partners, suppliers and customers Our partnerships in action Refinitiv Charities PERFORMANCE DATA AND DISCLOSURES 28 Performance data UN Global Compact Ten Principles Impact on UN Sustainable Development Goals TCFD report Further clarification on data and targets 5/50 INTRODUCTION FROM DAVID CRAIG, CEO Sustainability has been at the core of what Refinitiv is and what it This report details how Refinitiv is putting sustainability and stands for since launching in October 2018. responsibility at its core. It shows how our ambitious targets are driving real results, such as the way colleagues are helping lighten We’ve made incredible progress across a range of environmental our environmental footprint and supporting our local communities. and social goals in that time to become a sustainability leader And it shows how Refinitiv’s ESG data is playing a crucial role within financial services. Ambitious targets and our commitment to in transforming the entire financial sector into a sustainable the United Nations Global Compact, the world’s largest corporate financial sector. sustainability initiative, are an expression of our commitment to remain a leader. We don’t have long to do this, especially when it comes to the unfolding environmental crisis. 2020 must mark the start of a Writing this from home during lockdown, I’m even more convinced decade of action to systematically transform our societies – by the need to prioritise sustainability. The coronavirus pandemic and with recent painful experiences now shaping our thinking – has highlighted just how unsustainable a track we had been on – I am increasingly optimistic that we are up to the task. both as a society and as custodians of the planet. If there is one positive to draw from the crisis it is that we understand our fragility Refinitiv will play its part in this change – both in terms of our own as a species; the bonds that bind our communities; and the footprint and by providing markets, society and governments with wonder of the natural world with fresh eyes. the information they need to create a truly sustainable society. The pandemic has also proved the resilience of the sustainability In these pages you will see how we’ve already begun to do agenda, confounding fears that the hard-won gains of recent just that. years would be erased. Those companies with more ethical approaches to staff and suppliers are generally weathering the storm better. And those with higher scores in our environmental, social and governance (ESG) database have outperformed the benchmark. Sustainability is not just the ‘right thing to do’. It is in our financial self-interest too. David Craig, CEO 6/50 BEING A RESPONSIBLE BUSINESS Sustainability at Refinitiv means being an industry leader in the transition to a low-carbon economy and championing the role responsible businesses can play in this shift. We do this by: • Being environmentally responsible with our resources and supporting the communities we operate in • Using our data, forward-thinking technology and expertise to help our customers make sustainable investment decisions; providing transparency in our markets, mitigating risk and generating performance 7/50 VALUES AND ETHICS Through a culture where performance These values are underpinned by our leads, we encourage colleagues to drive people strategies, practices and policies change and have a positive impact on to support our colleagues, customers the world. Our diverse teams of worldand suppliers in our everyday operations. class experts have the power to make Our Code of Business Conduct & Ethics breakthroughs for our customers and the outlines our broader commitments; all industries they serve. colleagues, at every level are required to commit to its adoption and integration, Our values are adopted by our global and this is also supported by a confidential employee base, and we regularly use an hotline to flag any non-compliance. engagement insights platform to ensure all voices are heard and our colleagues are Our agreements with suppliers are engaged: supported in our Supply Chain Ethical Code, and commitments against modern BE BOLD day slavery and supply chain transparency push boundaries together are covered in our Modern Slavery Statement. BE FOCUSED take ownership and action BE OPEN trust one another 8/50 GOVERNANCE The sustainability function operates across We also have a growing colleague-led network of Refinitiv’s global footprint and works directly those passionate about social and environmental with colleagues and partners to manage change. Working in collaboration with their and implement our environmental and social office locations and partners, our Sustainable performance. Reporting into the Chief Strategy Action Teams are key to driving local action and and Innovation Officer at the executive level, there engagement and helping Refinitiv to achieve its is oversight and accountability across all programs goals. This network engages in relevant, local and policies, with regular updates to the action within their communities, bringing to life CEO and bi-annual reports to the board. Refinitiv’s commitment to the United Nations Sustainable Development Goals. Our Global Sustainability Committee meets quarterly and is composed of leaders from across the business whose roles have a direct influence on our approach and achievements. This group is proactive in shaping, challenging and implementing the sustainability agenda across our global operations. Our Global Sustainability Committee is pro-active in shaping, challenging and implementing the sustainability agenda. 9/50 GLOBAL 1.  CONTINUOUSLY LIGHTEN OUR ENVIRONMENTAL FOOTPRINT SUSTAINABILITY • Be carbon neutral by 2020 • B e powered by 100% renewable energy PLEDGES by 2020 • Reduce annual carbon emissions by an average of 10% over the next five years 2.  REFLECT AND SUPPORT THE In late 2018 we made three global COMMUNITIES WHERE WE OPERATE sustainability pledges, with time-bound • Foster a culture of openness and inclusion, while promoting an inclusive targets, to hold ourselves to account workplace that embraces diversity of on our environmental and social every kind commitments. • Double our people engagement with community investment programs by 2020 Through collective, collaborative action • Deliver our goal of 40% women in across our global operations, we have senior leadership, driven by the Talent, made significant progress across Leadership and Inclusion function all three pledges: 3.  PUT SUSTAINABILITY AT THE CORE OF OUR PRODUCT OFFERING • Using our data, forward-thinking technology and expertise to help our customers make sustainable investment decisions; providing transparency in our markets, mitigating risk and generating performance 10/50 1.  CONTINUOUSLY LIGHTEN OUR ENVIRONMENTAL 2019 FOOTPRINT • Refinitiv is now carbon neutral and has applied for PAS 2060 certification. In parallel we reduced emissions by 11% across an increased global footprint • We are also members of RE100 and were 100% powered by renewable energy in 2019 ACHIEVEMENTS We have accelerated action across our global operations and have made significant progress across all three pledges. 2.  REFLECT AND SUPPORT THE COMMUNITIES Alongside achieving our headline targets, we also: WHERE WE OPERATE • In 2019 we doubled our colleague engagement with • Created 40+ colleague-led Sustainable Action Teams, community investment programs from 8% to 17% responsible for over 115,000+ volunteering hours • We delivered our target of 40% women in leadership • Achieved a B rating in our inaugural Carbon Disclosure Project at executive level in early 2020 and are on track to hit (CDP) report disclosure this target across the entire leadership team by the end • Established Refinitiv Charities to maximize social impact of the year, as part of an expanded suite of diversity and • Were shortlisted for five global social engagement awards inclusion programs across the business • Donated $1.5m to charity through volunteer grants and matching gifts, and raised $65k through our proprietary 3.  PUT SUSTAINABILITY AT THE CORE OF OUR TicketAid platform PRODUCT OFFERING • Significant progress has been made across our sustainable finance product suite, including: broader data coverage, enhanced ESG scoring methodology, sustainable financing league tables criteria and production, and integration of ESG data with our proprietary fund data for ESG fund scores • Our sustainable finance product suite includes data and research covering ESG company metrics, index provision, fund scoring, carbon pricing, sustainable financing deals, and macro-economic time series 11/50 2020 PRIORITIES Sustainability issues impacting our communities, our BEING A RESPONSIBLE BUSINESS resources and our ability to do business continue to evolve • Ethics, data privacy and data standards rapidly and are wide-ranging. They cover areas such as • ESG risk assessment and management climate change, sustainable finance, green energy and social • Climate change affecting our business inequalities. We regularly review our strategic approach and the issues we focus on to ensure our activities have the • Sustainability governance and leadership most impact. LIGHTENING OUR ENVIRONMENTAL FOOTPRINT To further explore the sustainability landscape in the context • Carbon emissions of our own business we have undertaken a materiality • Renewable energy assessment, which has identified 12 sector-relevant issues • Business travel from existing reporting frameworks, mapped against global trends and our own business strategy. These 12 issues fall REFLECT AND SUPPORT THE COMMUNITIES WHERE WE OPERATE within specific focus areas which encompass our sustainability • Diversity, inclusion and women in leadership approach and pledges. We sought feedback from a range of • Social impact and innovative solutions internal and external stakeholders on these issues and have • Recruitment, talent and culture analyzed the findings to identify priority issues. • Employee engagement, volunteering and charitable giving All those who took part in the survey agreed that every issue presented was important, supporting the robust strategy and PUT SUSTAINABILITY AT THE CORE OF OUR PRODUCT OFFERING approach we have in place within the sustainability function • Sustainable products to progress sustainability and ESG decisions and across the wider business. 12/50 Alongside the central initiatives led by The priority issues below show areas where we are accelerating action immediately the sustainability function, some of the across the business, in response to the survey findings: areas highlighted in the survey are being managed by dedicated teams elsewhere in Refinitiv. For example, ethics and How Refinitiv continues to manage and reduce its carbon emissions was flagged as data privacy form a high priority for the a priority issue, including how we disclose climate risk through transparent reporting. company, with a dedicated team in place We are increasing transparency in reporting through the Task Force on Climatein place to protect company data, who related Financial Disclosures (TCFD) disclosures, and stretching our environmental manage the relevant processes and ambition by setting targets that we consider to be science-based. This continues risk analysis. to be a business priority and we commit to working with our colleagues, suppliers, customers and partners to keep ourselves to account. Diversity, inclusion and culture is led within our People function by the Talent, Leadership & Inclusion team, with tailored programs driving action and engagement. Sustainability governance and leadership again raises the importance of responsible Our sustainable finance products are led and transparent behaviors when managing issues of increased relevance to business by our business teams, driving investment growth. In response we have reviewed our sustainability governance approach, in the necessary data and tools to enable integrated climate risk into our risk portfolio, and increased reporting cadence to our financial markets to deploy capital towards executive leadership team and board. a sustainable economy. Social impact and innovative solutions was flagged as the most important issue relating to supporting local communities. This aligns with our existing approach where we are seeking opportunities to offer more than traditional volunteering and funding, and leveraging our own data, solutions and technology to activate on societal needs. The sustainability function is part of the Strategy & Innovation team makes us ideally placed to collaborate and execute on solutions. 13/50 A DECADE OF ACTION When Refinitiv was established in 2018, BY THE END OF BY THE END OF we set short-term 2020 targets to accelerate immediate action and benchmark initial 2025 WE WILL 2030 WE WILL performance data. • Reduce our business and • Halve our business carbon Having achieved these 2020 targets we have commuting travel by 25% emissions set out new, high-impact, environmental and • Commit to 65% of our suppliers • Plant 1 million trees social goals over the next decade, following setting science-based emissions • Support 1 million people through the findings of our materiality assessment. targets Refinitiv-sponsored donations and These top-line targets continue to mobilize • Achieve 1 million volunteering social impact activities, aligning with action and activity across Refinitiv, build significantly on our momentum and remain hours and engage 50% of Refinitiv 4 UN SDGs (good health and welltrue to our simple mission to lighten our colleagues in our community being; reduced inequalities; climate environmental footprint and support the support programs action; peace, justice and strong communities we operate in. • Be a top 3 provider of sustainable institutions) Alongside regularly reviewing our data, activity finance data and analytics and progress, we will continually look at new solutions, enabling global areas for increased efficiencies, innovation and sustainable investment and ethical engagement. We look forward to reporting back on these goals and our underlying progress as supply chain development a sustainable and responsible business. 14/50 A CLOSER LOOK 15/50 LIGHTENING OUR ENVIRONMENTAL FOOTPRINT 2019 ACHIEVEMENTS 100% 100% 11% Scored 30,000 powered by renewable energy carbon neutral reduction in emissions B in CDP reusable bottles and mugs distributed globally to colleagues Managing and measuring our environmental performance introducing agile working environments. We provided over 30,000 reusable mugs and bottles to is an area in which we have accelerated our action and • Waste management: completing waste management our colleagues in the vast majority of our offices, along ambition. At the end of 2018 we set short-term targets to be reviews in our global hub locations; identifying and with reducing the availability of single-use cups in these carbon neutral and 100% powered by renewable energy and implementing improved recycling programs where locations. We also supported local activities to build on 100% renewable energy by the end of 2020 and to reduce required; providing awareness sessions to employees these initial steps, by providing 1,500 utensil kits in our our initial annual emissions by an average of 10% a year. on effective waste segregation. New York Times Square office and committing to the Breaking the Plastic Habit campaign in Canary Wharf, Following ongoing collaboration across our business • Sustainable refurbishment: continuing to put London. throughout 2019, led by real estate and facilities sustainability at the core of Refinitiv refurbishment and management, sourcing, technology and travel teams relocation projects by reusing and recycling equipment, In 2019 we submitted our carbon strategy, data and targets we achieved our targets by January 1, 2020. and introducing LED lighting where possible. to CDP for the first time, achieving a B score. The CDP framework, alongside our materiality report, has been a These targets set us on a path to emissions reduction Recycling and reducing single-use plastics in our working foundational part in the development of new, stretching and the following programs were instrumental in achieving environments were identified by Refinitiv colleagues as environmental targets for the business. our goals: areas of most concern in 2019, so we ran global and local campaigns to target these areas. • Reducing utility consumpion globally: through consolidation projects, reducing unused space and 16/50 LOOKING AHEAD In 2020 we are proactively responding to the • Aligning our reporting to TCFD (Task Force on Climateenvironmental shifts around us, and the urgency to act related Financial Disclosures) recommendations, for more now, by: effective and standardized disclosure of financially material climate-related risks and opportunities (see page 41). • Setting science-based targets. The Science Based Targets initiative (SBTi) is a globally recognized • Maintaining our carbon neutrality and 100% renewable collaboration that guides companies on how far and energy pledges, aligning to PAS 2060 and RE100 how fast they need to reduce emissions and then frameworks respectively, and continuing to disclose independently verifies that reduction. We have set through the CDP framework. ambitious emissions reductions as part of our 2025 and 2030 decade of action targets that – if adopted by all businesses – would help limit atmospheric warming to 1.5°C above pre-industrial levels. • Signing the Business Ambition for 1.5°C and ‘Uniting Business and Governments to Recover Better’ commitment, backed by a global coalition of UN agencies, business organizations and NGOs, in line with our science-based targets. We believe these commitments will position Refinitiv as a leading company in the fight against climate change. 17/50 REFLECTING AND SUPPORTING THE COMMUNITIES WHERE WE OPERATE 2019 ACHIEVEMENTS $1.5m donated to Established over 40 Supported over Doubled the charities through volunteer Sustainable 115,000 volunteer number of Refinitiv Launched Refinitiv Charities our matching gifts Action Teams across the hours across colleagues using to increase scope and impact and volunteer globe, to lead our local the business our community of company giving grants schemes social impact activity support programs Supporting our local communities through the skills, time Across our global employee base of over 18,000 In 2019 our colleagues logged over 115,000 volunteering and passions of our colleagues across the world is an colleagues, we offer everybody two volunteering days hours and made use of their $1,000 volunteer grant or important part of our sustainability approach. Building on a year as well as $1,000 to support registered charities matching gift allocation with $1.5m raised for charity. a strong legacy of community and charity partnerships, financially through gift matching and volunteer grants. The This has increased significantly from the previous year, we have focused our efforts on local engagement with needs of all our communities vary greatly, so empowering with colleagues continuing to make a difference in their meaningful impact. localized support is incredibly important for our employees local communities. and partners on the ground. 18/50 ENGAGING OUR EMPLOYEES Our Sustainable Action Teams are colleague-led volunteer Support health and well-being networks across the globe. With over 40 groups at Refinitiv their mission is to support our overall sustainability pledges and targets, and to work with partners and communities to make a difference on the ground. They do this by A SHIFT IN RESPONSE organizing volunteer events, working with local community Reduce inequalities Due to the global coronavirus pandemic we groups, raising awareness of environmental issues and have shifted our community response to best identifying small changes in our offices that can make a support the immediate needs of our charity big difference. partners and the community needs of our Working in collaboration with site leadership and other Combat waste colleagues since individuals were impacted in engagement groups, such as the Refinitiv Employee varying ways. Increasing our company-sponsored Networks, our Sustainable Action Teams are integral to volunteering time to three days in 2020 ensures how our environmental and community initiatives are our colleagues have more opportunity to support activated across Refinitiv. those around them. Tackle deforestation Additionally, Refinitiv Charities’ work will expand These networks have achieved great impact and engagement since they began, and we have captured many to provide additional funding to charitable of these stories on our dedicated Social Impact page. organizations that provide frontline support to those impacted, through its dedicated Refinitiv colleagues are supporting our key UN Sustainable Coronavirus Community Support Fund. Development Goal focus areas, and the needs of their Innovate for change local communities through a variety of grass-roots projects, which: 19/50 SOCIAL INNOVATION Social innovation is another core pillar to our sustainability efforts, acting as a driving force for differentiated and more purposeful impact and action. With our data, technology and expertise at our fingertips, we have the ability to empower a sustainable future in new, innovative ways. In 2019 we: • Expanded our TicketAid platform. What started as a colleague idea to fill empty seats at concert venues for charity has transformed into an award-winning social innovation platform, raising over $150k. • Encouraged colleagues to embrace new ways of leveraging social impact through innovation, such as sending a global delegation to One Young World. Ten delegates were hand-picked from over 600 applications and road-tested their social innovation ideas with 150+ workshop attendees at the conference, in a first step towards potentially identifying new ways of leveraging our data, products and expertise. • Actively partnered with social enterprises with a shared purpose and vision. This has seen Refinitiv use an exhibitor stand built entirely out of plastic waste collected from the Canary Wharf estate in London, trial a recycling incentive apps, create custom-branded clothing to support the local social impact campaigns and adopt environmentally-friendly technology solutions, such as a search engine which uses advertising revenue to plant trees. 20/50 DIVERSITY & INCLUSION We are committed to creating a culture of openness and inclusion, by promoting a workplace that embraces diversity of every kind. This approach enables innovation through harnessing diverse perspectives, driving greater performance for our customers and our colleagues. Diversity and inclusion (D&I) at Refinitiv is led by the dedicated Talent, Leadership & Inclusion function and supported by stakeholders and leaders across the business. OUR STRATEGY Our D&I strategy focuses on behavioural change aimed at ‘fixing’ the impact of the decisions we make, not on ‘fixing’ groups that are under-represented. This approach is integrated and embedded into everything we do, for example, we continue to establish robust data and insights on recruitment, engagement, progression and retention of under-represented groups. Our two pillars are: • What we look like – having diversity at all levels • What we feel like – having an inclusive culture where talented people know they can thrive and achieve their potential with us 21/50 D&I is critical because it: • Enables Refinitiv to attract and retain the best global talent, not limited to certain groups, and acts as a commercial driver. Diverse and inclusive businesses are more innovative and profitable. • Enables us to create differentiated relationships with our customers, wherever they are in the world. OUR D&I GOALS • Strengthens our brand as thought leaders on D&I, In partnership with our leadership team, colleagues and an increasingly significant area of business focus, Refinitiv Employee Networks we’re making progress towards through external presence and partnerships in our the following goals. We will report more fully on our progress major markets. in a separate D&I report in 2020. Diversity (what we look like): • We currently have 40% women at our executive leadership team level and we are progressing towards the overall target of 40% women in senior leadership. • We have introduced a 25% global race target at senior leadership level by 2024 (see page 49 for further detail). Inclusion (what we feel like): • Deliver the Refinitiv Inclusive Culture Program, a global program focused on unconscious bias, inclusive behavior and leadership capability. • Ensure consistent engagement scores for all our people regardless of group or location. 22/50 PUTTING SUSTAINABILITY AT THE CORE OF OUR PRODUCT OFFERING THE ROLE OF SUSTAINABLE FINANCE FOR OUR CUSTOMERS At Refinitiv, we use our data, forward-thinking technology, analytics and expertise to help our customers make sustainable investment decisions, mitigate risk and generate performance. We help our customers make sound, sustainable investment decisions, by enabling them to assess the risks – and opportunities – posed by companies’ performance in critical sustainability-related areas. We provide accurate, decision-ready, auditable, transparent, comparable, sustainability-related data and are committed to expand our suite of sustainability-related propositions by evolving existing capabilities and working with partners and innovating in new areas. Our data and solutions also assist corporations to improve their own environmental, social and governance (ESG) reporting standards; report on regulatory and compliance requirements; meet institutional investor mandates; and mitigate reputational risk. HELPING TO SHAPE SUSTAINABLE INVESTING IN OUR MARKETS Refinitiv is at the heart of an ecosystem of change-makers and thought leaders, empowering customers to shift towards sustainable investment. Alongside our charity and community relationships we are building our global partners to help us deliver on what we promise and further widen our impact. By identifying government and industry stakeholders with sustainability and sustainable investment as top policy objectives, we will also work with global regulators to shape rapidly developing sustainability and disclosure regulations, to scope impact and opportunity for Refinitiv and our clients. 23/50 WORKING COLLABORATIVELY WITH OUR PARTNERS, SUPPLIERS AND CUSTOMERS We know that sustainability is more important than ever for our customers and suppliers. Our commitments to the UN Global Compact, the Business Ambition for 1.5°C and the Future of Sustainable Data Alliance are just some of the steps we are taking to further our collaboration with global businesses and organizations, to drive change within this agenda. By setting a 2025 target that commits 65% of our supply chain to adopt science-based targets in this timeframe, we are increasing our dialogue and capacity to collaborate with the global organizations we deal with on a daily basis. This goal furthers our commitment to do business with companies that share our values, and builds on existing policies and approaches to ensure these needs are met. • Supply Chain Ethical Code • Code of Business Conduct & Ethics • Modern Slavery Statement • Supplier Diversity Statement 24/50 WE PARTNER WITH EUROPEAN COMMISSION Refinitiv sits on the European Commission Technical Expert Group on Sustainable Finance, which has a mandate to develop key investment frameworks with environmental, social and governance (ESG) considerations taken into account. WORLD ECONOMIC FORUM Refinitiv continues to work with the World Economic Forum on developing a sustainable leadership framework for corporate executives to measure, monitor and communicate long-term ESG strategies and business performance. UNITED NATIONS TASK FORCE Refinitiv is a knowledge partner to the United Nations Secretary General’s Task Force of Digital Financing of the SDGs. Its aim is to harness the power of digital financing for the good of the planet and its citizens. 25/50 OUR PARTNERSHIPS IN ACTION FUTURE OF SUSTAINABLE DATA ALLIANCE Building on our commitment to drive positive change through our data and insight, Gaps in ESG data persist, as does comparable impact visibility. The understanding and Refinitiv founded the Future of Sustainable Data Alliance (FoSDA) in conjunction with a integration of material sustainability considerations into investment decisions is not number of key global organisations, including: The World Economic Forum, The Institute currently consistent across capital markets, often resulting in capital being allocated to of International Finance (IIF) The Official Monetary and Financial Institutions Forum inefficient projects and assets, which can be environmentally or socially damaging. FoSDA (OMFIF), the United Nations Task Force of Digital Financing of the SDGs (DFTF), Tsinghua has been formed to address this urgent situation and foster collaboration in the sustainable University, the Climate Bonds Initiative, The Asia Securities Industry and Financial finance ecosystem. Markets Association (ASIFMA), the Global Financial Markets Association (GFMA), Oxford University, The Spatial Finance Institute, Catapult , FinTech4Good, Everledger, and GoImpact. We will seek to answer the question: what data do investors and governments need to meet the requirements of regulators, citizens and market demand for sustainable The purpose of the alliance is to identify, and accelerate the provision of, reliable, investments and portfolios to 2030? actionable, comparable sustainable finance data and technology, for improved investor decision-making. 26/50 REFINITIV CHARITIES Refinitiv Charities was established in 2019 as a registered grant-making charity, funded primarily through Refinitiv donations and its own dedicated social innovation initiatives such as TicketAid. Its mission is to deliver sustainable social impact through dedicated support to projects and organizations aligned to the following UN Sustainable Development Goals: 27/50 PERFORMANCE DATA AND DISCLOSURES 28/50 PERFORMANCE DATA EMPLOYEE NUMBERS* 2019 2018 ENVIRONMENTAL 2019 2018 Headcount 18,824 18,638 Total CO2 emissions (location-based) 144,220 162,365 REGIONAL HEADCOUNT Total CO2 emissions (market-based) 16,420 133,726 Americas 3,646 3,827 Scope 1 1,508 2,083 APAC 10,106 8,809 Scope 2 (location-based) 131,405 149,254 CEMA 2,798 3,480 Scope 2 (marketbased) 3,605 120,615 UKI 2,274 2,522 Scope 3 (business travel) 11,307 11,028 GENDER REPRESENTATION * Numbers for 31 December 2018 and 31 December 2019 ** As of Q1 2020 we have achieved 40% women in leadership at the executive level Headcount (male | female) 58% | 42% 58% | 42% ELT (male | female) 67% | 33%** 67% | 33% ELT+1 (male | female) 64% | 36% 67% | 33% SOCIAL IMPACT Volunteering (hours) 117,766 69,089 Matching gifts $307,701 $408,510 Volunteer grants $1,149,000 $785,500 Colleague community engagement 17% 8% 29/50 UN GLOBAL COMPACT TEN PRINCIPLES HUMAN RIGHTS Page ENVIRONMENT Page Principle 1 Businesses should support and respect 8, 24 Principle 7 Businesses should support a precautionary 7, 13, 17, 24 the protection of internationally proclaimed approach to environmental challenges; human rights; and Principle 8 undertake initiatives to promote greater 10 14, 24 Principle 2 make sure that they are not complicit in 8, 24 environmental responsibility; and human rights abuses. Principle 9 encourage the development and diffusion 7, 10 13, 24 LABOR of environmentally friendly technologies. Principle 3 Businesses should uphold the freedom of 8, 24 ANTI-CORRUPTION association and the effective recognition of Principle 10 Businesses should work against corruption 8, 24 the right to collective bargaining; in all its forms, including extortion and Principle 4 the elimination of all forms of forced and 8, 24 bribery. compulsory labour; Principle 5 the effective abolition of child labour; and 8, 24 Principle 6 the elimination of discrimination in respect 8, 21, 22, 24 of employment and occupation. 30/50 UN SUSTAINABLE DEVELOPMENT GOALS GOAL TARGET ACTION Page Goal 1. No Poverty 1.1 No one to live under $1.25 a day • We have a Business Code of Conduct & Ethics, which ensures wages and 8, 24 benefits comply with applicable laws; our suppliers and partners also operate under ethical standards equivalent to our own 1.a Ensure significant mobilization • In 2019 we doubled our colleague engagement with community investment 11 of resources programs from 8% to 17 • We have a growing network of colleague-led Sustainable Action Teams across 18 40 locations, mobilized to work with community projects that address poverty and inequality Goal 4. Quality 4.4 Increase the number of youths • We have colleague-led Sustainable Action Teams across 40 locations, 18 Education and adults who have relevant skills supporting a variety on educational projects and skills-building programs* for employment 31/50 GOAL TARGET ACTION Page Goal 5. Gender 5.5 Ensure women’s full and effective • We hit our target of 40% women at an executive leadership level in early 21 Equality participation and equal opportunities for 2020, and are making progress towards our target of 40% in our extended leadership leadership team • We have a gender-inclusive approach to talent reviews and diverse interview 21 panels, with a dedicated Diversity & Inclusion (D&I) function leading an embedded, global, strategic approach • We have dedicated Refinitiv Employee Networks across our organization 22 • W  e have a Code of Business Conduct & Ethics, Supply Chain Ethical Code, 8, 24 guidelines on Supplier Diversity and underlying policies across all aspects of community, sustainability and diversity, outlining our commitments 5.c Adopt and strengthen policies • W  e achieved our target of 40% women at an executive leadership level in 21 for promotion of gender equality and early 2020, and are making progress to our target of 40% in our extended empowerment of all women and girls leadership team • We have a gender-inclusive approach to talent reviews and diverse interview 21 panels, with a dedicated Diversity & Inclusion (D&I) function leading an embedded, global, strategic approach • We have dedicated Refinitiv Employee Networks across our organization 22 • We have a Code of Business Conduct & Ethics, Supply Chain Ethical Code, 8, 24 guidelines on Supplier Diversity and underlying policies across all aspects of community, sustainability and diversity, outlining our commitments 32/50 GOAL TARGET ACTION Page Goal 7: Affordable 7.2 Increase substantially the share of • W  e are members of RE100 and are 100% powered by renewable electricity at a 11 and Clean Energy renewable energy in the global energy mix regional level • W  e are supporting the work of our partners to position clean energy at the at 24 the center of a green recovery 7.a Enhance International cooperation to • Our sustainable finance product suite includes data and research covering ESG 23 facilitate access to clean energy research performance, indices and fund ratings, carbon pricing, renewable energy, green and technology, and promote investment financing and macroeconomics to progress sustainability and ESG decisions in energy infrastructure and clean energy technology Goal 8. Decent 8.1 Sustain per capita economic growth in • O  ur data, technology and expertise help our customers make sustainable 23 Work and accordance with national circumstance investment decisions, mitigate risk and generate performance, driving Economic Growth sustainable economic growth 8.2 Achieve higher levels of economic • We use our data, analytics and expertise to help our customers make 23 productivity through diversification, sustainable investment decisions, mitigate risk and generate performance technological upgrading and innovation • We are committed to expand our suite of sustainability-related propositions 23 by evolving existing capabilities and working with partners and innovating in new areas 8.3 Improve resource efficiency in • Our sustainable finance product suite includes data and research covering 23 consumption and production and endeavor ESG performance, indices and fund ratings, carbon pricing, renewable energy, to decouple economic growth from green financing and macroeconomics to progress sustainability and ESG environmental degradation decisions making, whilst generating performance 33/50 GOAL TARGET ACTION Page Goal 8. Decent 8.5 Achieve full and productive employment • We have a Code of Business Conduct & Ethics, Supply Chain Ethical Code, 8, 24 Work and and decent work for all women and men and guidelines on Supplier Diversity and underlying policies across all aspects of Economic Growth equal pay for equal work community, sustainability and diversity, outlining our commitments continued • We have a gender-inclusive approach to talent reviews and diverse interview 21 panels • We have hit our target of 40% women at an executive leadership level, and 22 are making progress to our target of 40% in our extended leadership team • We have dedicated Refinitiv Employee Networks across our organization 22 8.7 Eradicate forced labor, end modern slavery, • W  e have a Code of Business Conduct & Ethics, Supply Chain Ethical Code, 8, 24 human trafficking and 2025 child labor guidelines on Supplier Diversity and underlying policies across all aspects of community, sustainability and diversity, outlining our commitments Goal 10. Reduced 10.2 Empower and promote the social, • We have doubled the number of Refinitiv colleagues using our community 11 Inequality economic and political inclusion of all support programs (8% to 17%) • Our colleagues receive two volunteering days a year, as well as $1,000 to support 18 registered charities financially through gift matching and volunteer grants • W  e have donated $1.5m to charities through our matching gifts and volunteer 18 grants schemes • We have supported over 115,000 volunteer hours across the business 18 • W  e launched Refinitiv Charities to increase scope and impact of our corporate 27 donations • W  e have a Code of Business Conduct & Ethics, Supply Chain Ethical Code, 8, 24 guidelines on Supplier Diversity and underlying policies across all aspects of community, sustainability and diversity, outlining our commitments 34/50 GOAL TARGET ACTION Page Goal 10. Reduced • We are a participating member of the UN Global Compact and align with the UN 24, 30 Inequality Global Compact Ten Principles continued  e have a gender-inclusive approach to talent reviews and diverse interview • W 21 panels, to dedicated employee networks across our organization • W  e have over 40 volunteer Sustainable Action Teams across the globe, driving 19, 20 our local social impact activity* 10.3 Ensure equal opportunity and reduce • W  e have a Code of Business Conduct & Ethics, Supply Chain Ethical Code, 8 inequalities of outcome guidelines on Supplier Diversity and underlying policies across all aspects of community, sustainability and diversity, outlining our commitments • Refinitiv is a participating member of the UN Global Compact and align with the 24, 30 UN Global Compact Ten Principles • We have a gender-inclusive approach to talent reviews and diverse interview 21 panels, and dedicated employee networks across our organization 10.4 Adopt fiscal, wage and social protection • W  e have a Code of Business Conduct & Ethics, Supply Chain Ethical Code, 8, 24 policies to achieve greater equality guidelines on Supplier Diversity and underlying policies across all aspects of community, sustainability and diversity, outlining our commitments 10.5 Improve the regulation and monitoring • Our data and solutions assist corporations to better their own environmental, 23 of global financial markets and institutions social and governance (ESG) reporting standards; report on regulatory and compliance requirements; meet institutional investor mandates; and mitigate reputational risk 35/50 GOAL TARGET ACTION Page Goal 11. Sustainable 11.5 Significantly reduce the number of • W  e are aligning our reporting to the Taskforce for Climate-related Financial 13, 41-50 Cities and deaths, people affected, and economic Disclosures (TCFD) recommendations Communities losses caused by disaster • We are conducting scenario analysis to understand potential climate-related 41-50 risks and mitigate impact 11.6 Reduce the adverse per capita • Refinitiv is carbon neutral and has applied for PAS 2060 certification 11 environmental impact of cities • W e are members of RE100 and were 100% powered by renewable energy 11 in 2019 • We are setting science-based emissions reductions targets 17 • We have signed the Business Ambition for 1.5°C and ‘Uniting Business and 17 Governments to Recover Better’ commitments, backed by a global coalition of UN agencies, business organizations and NGOs, in line with our science-based target commitment • O ur data and solutions assist corporations to better their own environmental, 23 social and governance (ESG) reporting standards; report on regulatory and compliance requirements; meet institutional investor mandates; and mitigate reputational risk 11.b by 2020, implement policies towards • Refinitiv is carbon neutral and has applied for PAS 2060 certification 11 climate change management, resilience • We are aligning our reporting to Taskforce for Climate-related Financial 13, 31 to disasters, and implement disaster risk Disclosures (TCFD) recommendation management • Integrated climate risk into our enterprise risk management framework 13 • We help our customers make sound, sustainable investment decisions, by 23 enabling them to assess the risks posed by companies’ performance in critical sustainability-related areas 36/50 GOAL TARGET ACTION Page Goal 12. 12.5. Substantially reduce waste generation • W  e are completing waste management reviews in our global hub locations; 16 Responsible through prevention, reduction, recycling identifying and implementing improved recycling programs where required; Consumption and reuse providing awareness sessions to employees on effective waste segregation • 30,000 reusable bottles and mugs and over 1,500 utensil kits have been 16 distributed globally to colleagues • We are continuing to put sustainability at the core of Refinitiv refurbishment and 16 relocation projects by reusing and recycling equipment, and introducing LED lighting where possible 12.6 Encourage companies to adopt • Our data and solutions assist corporations to better their own environmental, 23 sustainable practices and to integrate social and governance (ESG) reporting standards; report on regulatory and sustainability information into their reporting compliance requirements; meet institutional investor mandates; and mitigate cycle reputational risk Goal 13. Climate 13.1 Strengthen resilience and adaptive • W  e are aligning our reporting to the Taskforce for Climate-related Financial 13, 41-50 Action capacity to climate-related hazards and Disclosures (TCFD) recommendations natural disasters • W  e are conducting scenario analysis to understand potential risks and mitigate 41-50 impact • We provide data and analytics to help other corporates understand and mitigate 23 their own climate related risks 13.2 Integrate climate change measures into • We are setting science-based emissions reduction targets 17 national policies, strategies and planning • W  e have signed the Business Ambition for 1.5°C and ‘Uniting Business and 17 Governments to Recover Better’ commitments, backed by a global coalition of UN agencies, business organizations and NGOs, in line with our science-based target commitment 37/50 GOAL TARGET ACTION Page Goal 13. Climate • Refinitiv is carbon neutral and has applied for PAS 2060 certification 11 Action • W  e are aligning our reporting to the Taskforce for Climate-related Financial 13, 41-50 continued Disclosures (TCFD) recommendations • W  e are conducting scenario analysis to understand potential risks and mitigate 41-50 impact 13.3 Improve education, awareness-raising • We are at the heart of an ecosystem of change-makers and thought leaders, 23 and capacity to climate change management empowering customers to shift towards sustainable investment • We partner with European Commission, World Economic Forum and United 25 Nations Task force and are represented on the European Commission’s technical expert group • Our Sustainable Action teams raise awareness of environmental issues and 18-19 identifying small changes in our offices that can make a difference* Goal 15. Life on 15.2 Promote sustainable management • W  e have committed to plant and conserve 1 million trees by 2030, through our 14 Land of forests, halt deforestation, increase Refinitiv Global Forest project afforestation and reforestation • O  ur colleague-led Sustainable Action teams support numerous tree planting 18-19 and reforestation projects across Europe, Asia and Latin America* Goal 16. Peace, 16.2 End abuse, exploitation, trafficking and • W  e have a Code of Business Conduct & Ethics, Supply Chain Ethical Code, 8, 24 Justice and Strong all forms of violence against and torture of Modern Slavery Statement and underlying policies across the community, Institutions children sustainability and diversity space that outline our commitments • W  e are participating member of the UN Global Compact and align with the UN 24, 30 Global Compact Ten Principles 38/50 GOAL TARGET ACTION Page Goal 16. Peace, 16.3 Significantly reduce illicit financial and • We have a Code of Business Conduct & Ethics, Supply Chain Ethical Code, 8, 24 Justice and Strong arms flows, strengthen the recovery and guidelines on Supplier Diversity and underlying policies across all aspects of Institutions return of stolen assets and combat all forms community, sustainability and diversity, outlining our commitments of organized crime • Our data provides transparency and insight, and drives action, in areas such as 23 continued regulatory compliance and the fight against financial crime 16.5. Substantially reduce corruption and • We have a Code of Business Conduct & Ethics, Supply Chain Ethical Code, 8, 24 bribery in all their forms guidelines on Supplier Diversity and underlying policies across all aspects of community, sustainability and diversity, outlining our commitments • O  ur data drives performance in areas including regulatory compliance and the 23 fight against financial crime 16.6. Develop effective, accountable and • W  e provide accurate, decision-ready, auditable, transparent, comparable, 23 transparent institutions at all levels sustainability-related data 16.a Strengthen relevant national institutions, • W  e have a Code of Business Conduct & Ethics, Supply Chain Ethical Code, 8, 24 including through international cooperation, guidelines on Supplier Diversity and underlying policies across all aspects of for building capacity to prevent violence and community, sustainability and diversity, outlining our commitments combat terrorism and crime • W  e are a participating member of the UN Global Compact and align with the 24, 30 UN Global Compact Ten Principles • O  ur data drives performance in areas including regulatory compliance and the 23 fight against financial crime 16.b Promote and enforce non-discriminatory • W  e have a Code of Business Conduct & Ethics, Supply Chain Ethical Code, 8, 24 laws and policies for sustainable guidelines on Supplier Diversity and underlying policies across all aspects of development community, sustainability and diversity, outlining our commitments • We are a participating member of the UN Global Compact and align with the 30 UN Global Compact Ten Principles 39/50 GOAL TARGET ACTION Page Goal 17. 17.6 Enhance cooperation on and access • We use our data, technology, analytics and expertise to help our customers 23 Partnerships for to science, technology and innovation and make sustainable investment decisions, mitigate risk and generate performance Goals enhance knowledge sharing • W  e are at the heart of an ecosystem of change-makers and thought leaders, 25 empowering customers to shift towards sustainable investment: partners include the European Commission, World Economic Forum, United Nations Task force, UNGC, and the Future of Sustainable Data Alliance • Our proprietary TicketAid platform is the philanthropic alternative to the 23 secondary ticket market to raise money for charities in collaboration with a range of partners 17.16 Enhance the Global Partnership • We are at the heart of an ecosystem of change-makers and thought leaders, 23, 25 for Sustainable Development and multiempowering customers to shift towards sustainable investment: partners stakeholder partnerships to support include the European Commission, World Economic Forum, United Nations Task achievement of SDGs in all countries force, UNGC, and the Future of Sustainable Data Alliance • Our proprietary TicketAid platform is the philanthropic alternative to the 20 secondary ticket market to raise money for charities in collaboration with a range of partners 17.18 By 2020, enhance capacity-building  efinitiv founded the Future of Sustainable Data Alliance (FoSDA) in conjunction 26 • R support to developing countries to increase with a number of key global organizations. The purpose of the alliance is availability of data to identify, and accelerate the provision of, reliable, actionable, comparable sustainable finance data and technology, for improved investor decision-making *Visit our Social Impact page to find out more about how our Sustainable Action Teams are meeting the needs of the Sustainable Development Goals and making a difference on the ground through local social and environmental projects 40/50 TCFD REPORT As early supporters of the Taskforce on Climate-related Financial Disclosure (TCFD), we These risks and opportunities are predominantly managed at a functional level and fall are pleased to fully align our disclosure with its recommendations. First addressed in our within the scope of our Enterprise Risk Management (ERM) framework, with bi-annual 2018 CDP climate disclosure, our responses to the TCFD recommendations have been updates to the executive leadership team, audit committee and board. enhanced in this report. The major addition details the results of scenario analysis, where Refinitiv has also strengthened its suite of metrics to measure the impact of climate-related we assessed climate-related financial impacts to the business under contrasting climate risks and set robust new science-based emissions reductions targets, aligning to a 1.5°C pathways. A thorough understanding of potential physical and transition risks informs ambition. our long-term risk mitigation and capital allocation, ensuring resiliency in our ongoing strategic approach. You will find a summary of the 11 TCFD recommendations outlined on page 42, our resiliency analysis against varying climate scenarios is detailed on page 44 and an Incorporating and disclosing on TCFD recommendations was achieved via engagement overview of climate-related opportunities is found on page 49. across multiple business functions, including sustainability, real estate and facilities management, sourcing, finance, risk management and our executive team. The management of climate-related risks, and identification of associated opportunities, is embedded into core business governance, with the sustainability function reporting into the Chief Strategy and Innovation Officer at the executive level and providing oversight and accountability across all programs. “Transparent, comparable data is a key building block in the global transition to a low-carbon economy; data drives clarity and clarity drives decisions and action. The TCFD recommendations are another step forward along this critical journey.” Luke Manning, Global Head of Sustainability and Enterprise Risk 41/50 TCFD SECTION TCFD RECOMMENDATION REFINITIV RESPONSE Page GOVERNANCE The board’s oversight of climate-related The sustainability function reports into the Chief Strategy and Innovation Officer at the executive 9 risks and opportunities. level, providing oversight and accountability across all programs and policies, with regular updates to the CEO and bi-annual reports to the board. Management’s role in assessing and Alongside our standalone sustainability reporting cadence, climate-related risks and opportunities 9 managing climate-related risks and also fall within the scope of our Enterprise Risk Management (ERM) framework, with bi-annual opportunities. updates to the executive leadership team, and annual reporting to the audit committee and board. STRATEGY Identification of climate-related risks The TCFD framework of climate-related risks was applied to categorize physical and transition risks 47-50 and opportunities. relevant to our operations. Climate-related risks were considered across the categories of policy and legal, technology, market, reputation as well as acute and chronic physical risks. Scenario analysis was applied to determine which risks and opportunities present material financial impact across short, medium and long term timeframe. Impact of climate-related risks and Climate-related risks and opportunities have been assessed using a below 2°C scenario presenting 47-50 opportunities on the organization’s high transition risk, and a high emissions scenario over 4°C with high associated physical impacts. businesses, strategy, and financial Our relevant climate-related and opportunities were identified across our products and services, planning. supply chain, facilities investment and operations. Risk exposure mapping was applied at key global sites to allow us to understand the impact on operating costs, revenues and to inform investment decisions. Additionally, Refinitiv’s sustainable finance product suite is used across the finance sector to assess the impact of the transition to a low-carbon economy in investment decisions. Resilience of strategy under varying The scenario analysis assessment results affirmed our strategic commitment to ambitious action on 44-48 climate-related scenarios. climate, enabling resiliency against a low emission, high transition risk scenario. Our physical risk assessment results allowed us to form a site-specific register of physical risk exposure to inform our real estate and facilitates strategies. A thorough understanding of our exposure to physical risks and subsequent financial impacts has allowed us to identify sites requiring adaptation and mitigation investment. 42/50 TCFD SECTION TCFD RECOMMENDATION REFINITIV RESPONSE Page RISK MANAGEMENT Processes for identifying and assessing Refinitiv’s climate scenario modelling, alongside functional climate-related inputs from across the 44-48 climate-related risks. business to the ERM framework, ensures visibility and assessment of current and emerging risks, across all appropriate leadership stakeholder groups. Processes for managing climate-related Climate-related risks are predominantly managed at a functional level, e.g. physical risks to Refinitiv 44-48 risks. offices are overseen by our real estate and facilities management team, and reported back through our Enterprise Risk Management, Business Continuity and Environmental Health & Safety processes. Climate-related risk mitigations are escalated to the executive leadership team or board when risk likelihood and impact levels reach the relevant threshold. Integrations of climate-related risks into Climate-related risks are embedded into our central ERM approach, and are communicated and 9 overall risk management. actioned either as standalone risks, or assessed and mitigated as part of existing or emerging adjacent risks within the framework. METRICS AND Metrics to assess climate-related risks Our commitment to the ongoing tracking and monitoring of environmental impacts ensures the 12, 14, 16, TARGETS and opportunities. effective management of climate-related risks and opportunities. Additionally, we identified a 17, 44-48 set of key risk and opportunity metrics to allow continued assessment of our progress. Robust methodologies have been applied to our metric determination to maintain consistency and enable historical trend analysis. Disclosure of Scope 1, Scope 2, and We are committed to full disclosure of all material emissions sources we have influence over. Our 16, 17, 30 Scope 3 greenhouse gas (GHG) voluntary emissions disclosure is provided annually through CDP and our sustainability report. emissions and the related risks. Targets used to manage climateOur ambitious long-term emission targets are set at a level which we believe is consistent with the 12, 14, 16, related risks and opportunities and scale necessary to limit warming to 1.5°C from pre-industrial levels. The targets were developed 17, 30 performance against targets. in line with the criteria of the Science Based Targets initiative across direct and indirect emissions sources, and we will attain formal verification from SBTi. Our emissions inventory was calculated in adherence with the Greenhouse Gas Protocol with an ongoing inventory management plan in place to ensure consistency and precision in our results. 43/50 SCENARIO ANALYSIS Undertaking scenario analysis is a critical process for ensuring resiliency in our long-term business strategy, enabling effective prioritization of capital investment and identification of adequate climate risk. The scenario analysis assessment also enabled us to fully explore climate-related opportunities across our operations and services, and define metrics and targets for comprehensive tracking. Physical risks were analyzed though the IPCC RCP 8.5 scenario. This high emissions scenario of warming over 4°C by the end of the century, was applied to evaluate the extreme physical climate risks of unmitigated emissions reductions. Our physical climate risk assessment mapped the hazard exposure of our key sites against acute risk of severe weather events, and chronic impacts of sea level rise, temperature and precipitation changes. Key financial impacts were assigned to ranked categories, using available research and data on costs and demand, together with our overall emissions inventory, annual energy consumption and global spend on purchased energy. Following TCFD guidelines, a lower than 2°C scenario was selected to evaluate our strategy against transition risks, including stringent policy and legal changes, technology mandates and increasing expectations on our reputation. Although our commitment to setting science-based targets demonstrates our ambition of reducing emissions in line with global climate goals, we felt it was important to assess and understand the impacts of a future pathway in which society’s efforts to limit emissions were unsuccessful. For this analysis we used the IEA WEO Sustainable Development Scenario. 44/50 PHYSICAL RISK ASSESSMENT AGAINST IPCC RCP 8.5 SCENARIO Financial impact key: Time frames: Low Medium High Short Term 0-1 year Managed Additional Pivot of business Medium Term 1-3 years mitigation as mitigation or strategy, part of existing investment operations EMERGING FINANCIAL IMPACTS: RESILIENCY STRATEGY: processes and/or locations Long Term 3-20 years RISKS: Description Short Medium Long Physical risks assessed against high emissions scenario with end of century warming of up to 5°C (IPCC RCP 8.5) Rising mean • Increase in heating and A high emissions scenario will require an increase in energy use for conditioning to ensure occupant comfort and temperatures and cooling costs due to the effective operation of data services. Central to our energy management strategy is site-level monitoring of shifting temperatures energy use, comparing against past performance and other sites. The incorporation of minimum energy performance variability standards for thermal comfort systems reduces energy use in the short term and provides greater resiliency for the • C apital investment for future when energy demand is expected to increase. Modelling of Refinitiv energy costs and expected electricity resiliency measures demand indicated a low long-term financial impact. Rising sea levels • C apital investments in An unmitigated emissions scenario will result in significant sea level rise due to the melting of land-ice and thermal adaptation measures expansion of our oceans. Understanding Refinitiv’s exposure to rising sea levels forms part of the due diligence for lease renewals and uptake. Our strategy also includes the ongoing monitoring of sea level figures and adaptation • Increase in costs due planning at high-risk locations, to assess the need for capital investment and possible long-term relocation. to relocation Evaluating the risk of sea level rise also extends to our supply chain and data service providers, with consideration of exposure to climate hazards forming part of due diligence in contract selection. Changes in • Increase in costs to Inadequate or oversupply of rainfall under a ‘business as usual’ emissions scenario will see vast ecosystem precipitation secure water supplies transformations. Refinitiv operations are not considered water intensive, therefore the long-term direct impact of water scarcity is expected to be low. Sites identified with high exposure to water stress will be monitored in terms of • P otential indirect regional adaptation initiatives and necessary investments, such as low water use fittings. Indirect impacts of water impacts to security, stress are more challenging to quantify as multiple factors can attribute to financial materiality. Stagnant water flows health and wellbeing arising from water scarcity may increase the risk of water-borne pests and diseases, compromising the health to those living or working nearby. Lengthy periods of low rainfall can reduce the ability of ground surfaces to soak up rainwater runoff, potentially increasing the risk of flood. Extreme cases of water scarcity may contribute to regional security stability. Our ERM, Business Continuity and Environmental Health and Safety frameworks are used to track and monitor climate-related water issues, to ensure successful management and early detection of materialization. Increased severity • Increased costs due to Rising global emissions are expected to increase the frequency and severity of extreme weather events. of extreme weather physical damage Understanding our exposure to severe weather events assists in identifying higher risk locations for the monitoring of insurance premiums and lease durations. Our business continuity planning comprehensively covers business events • Reduced revenue from disruption, informed by past and simulated events. Business critical locations identified at higher risk of severe business disruption weather events will be assessed for adaptation investment and possible planned relocation. 45/50 TRANSITION RISK ASSESSMENT AGAINST IEA WEO SDS SCENARIO Financial impact key: Time frames: Low Medium High Short Term 0-1 year Managed Additional Pivot of business Medium Term 1-3 years mitigation as mitigation or strategy, part of existing investment operations EMERGING FINANCIAL IMPACTS: RESILIENCY STRATEGY: processes and/or locations Long Term 3-20 years RISKS: Description Short Medium Long Transition risks assessed against a below 2 degrees scenario (IEA WEO Sustainable Development Scenario) Policy and legal • Increased pricing Our commitment to science-based targets and renewable energy procurement will see a significant long-term reduction of greenhouse gas of our emissions. Carbon price modelling results showed that the impact of carbon pricing specified in this scenario will have a low-level financial impact on our operations. Our emissions are voluntarily disclosed via the CDP, positioning us emissions well for any potential introduction of mandatory emissions reporting. • M  andatory reporting of emissions Technology • C  osts to transition The procurement of renewable energy for our global operations ensures the transition cost to low-carbon energy to lower emissions sources is budgeted and planned for. Our target to reduce our purchased goods and services emissions will encourage suppliers to also have ambitious science-based targets in place. In turn, purchasing from suppliers with these targets technology will reduce the risk of unanticipated pass-through cost increases of our goods and services from transition to lowcarbon technologies. Market • C  hanging Our commitment to research and development of innovative ESG data solutions limits the financial impact of changing customer behavior customer behavior due to increased environmental concerns. By investing in our own sustainable finance solutions, and partnering with key industry-shaping organizations, this shift in market trends also presents an opportunity for Refinitiv (see page 49). Reputation • Increased A strong focus on sustainability is embedded throughout our organization and at the core of our values. Our ambitious stakeholder emissions reduction strategy, and commitment to disclose our environmental impact, places us ahead of rising stakeholder expectations. We will continue to monitor climate and sustainability advancements to further reduce our concern environmental impact. 46/50 CLIMATE-RELATED OPPORTUNITIES Financial impact key: Time frames: Low Medium High Short Term 0-1 year Uplift to current Material market Transformational business position, brand market growth or Medium Term 1-3 years performance, or efficiency cost-avoidance OPPORTUNITY: DESCRIPTION: FINANCIAL REALIZATION STRATEGY: managed impact, leading opportunity Long Term 3-20 years through existing to evolution of with associated IMPACT: procedures current approach business strategy and structures pivot Long term Products and services Increased revenue due There is an increasingly strategic importance being placed by our customers on sustainable finance offerings and to development of new ESG-related data, products and analytics across the financial industry we serve. Understanding the level of data, transparency and analysis that businesses need in order to understand their own environmental impacts signals products and services increasing opportunities to our own business offering, alongside our reputation as a sustainable and responsible through R&D and innovation business. By expanding our suite of sustainable finance offerings, enhancing our depth and scope of ESG and sustainability-related data and working in collaboration with partners, we aim to meet the evolving needs of disclosure, changing customer priorities, regulation and aligned reporting. By the end of 2025 we have set a target to be a top 3 provider of sustainable finance data and analytics solutions, enabling global sustainable investment and ethical supply chain development. Resource efficiency Reduced and avoided costs The setting of ambitious reduction targets across our emissions categories, via our science-based target commitment, in facilities operation will see cost savings in our real-estate portfolio through energy efficiency installations and the application of minimum energy performance standards. Our ongoing project to externalize our data centers also forms a key element of our energy reduction program. Energy source Increased revenue due to Refinitiv’s participation in voluntary carbon markets, our commitment to renewable energy sourcing and reputational benefits due environmental partnership improves the quality and credibility of the Refinitiv brand. Additionally, the performance of our sustainable finance product offerings, increasing revenues and profitability support our brand’s value. to participation in carbon markets NEXT STEPS Alignment of our disclosures with the TCFD recommendations is an ongoing process, where over time we aim to expand both our coverage and the level of detail attained. Through the tracking and monitoring of our climate-related metrics we can further refine our strategy and maximize its resiliency. We will monitor advancements across policy, legal, market and reputation aspects, as well as the publishing of additional publicly available climate scenarios. By expanding our scenario selection and application, we will further assess our business strategy and operations against an increased range of plausible futures, exploring scenarios with a mix of physical and transition risks. 47/50 FURTHER CLARIFICATION ON TARGETS AND DATA 2019 ACHIEVEMENTS (PAGES 10, 11 AND 29) EMISSIONS REDUCTION Refinitiv’s reported reduction in emissions is against a 2018 baseline for scope 1, 2 and 3 (business travel) emissions. Additional scope 3 categories will be reported in CDP. This baseline follows the business separation from Thomson Reuters but does not encompass all Refinitiv offices, as our India locations did not separate until July 2019. The emissions reductions recorded in this report note an 11.2% reduction despite this increased real estate real estate footprint (using a location-based approach for scope 2 calculations). Our like-for-like emissions reductions, i.e. excluding our India locations from the 2019 data, are 14.4% against the 2018 baseline. Full detail of our carbon emissions reduction will be disclosed in CDP. The location-based scope 2 calculations method reveals the greenhouse gas emissions Refinitiv’s electricity suppliers are physically putting into the air. The market-based method reflects the emissions Refinitiv is responsible for due to our purchasing decisions, as well as contractual agreements suppliers have in place for their own emissions accounting. Both figures together provide a comprehensive progress update of our carbon reduction and renewable energy sourcing approaches. RENEWABLE ENERGY Refinitiv’s renewable energy claim will be reported to RE100 and CDP, with disclosures of national and regional electricity purchases through energy attribute certificates. CARBON NEUTRALITY Refinitiv’s carbon neutral claims will be documented in accordance with PAS 2060 specification. This specification defines a consistent set of measures and requirements to demonstrate carbon neutrality. 48/50 Refinitiv will develop a Carbon Management Plan which will contain a public commitment to Commit to 65% of our supply chain adopting science-based targets carbon neutrality and outlines the following major aspects of our parallel reduction strategy: • An engagement target has been proposed to SBTi for scope 3 emissions in the goods a time scale, specific targets for reductions, the planned means of achieving reductions and and services category, covering 65% of our global spend. how residual emissions will be offset. In accordance with PAS 2060, Refinitiv will document the achievement of neutrality through a set of Qualifying Explanatory Statements and public disclosure of all the documentation that supports the carbon neutrality claim. The methodology and data will be audited and verified by an external organization. DIVERSITY & INCLUSION (PAGE 21) Our approach to diversity and inclusion forms part of Refinitiv’s mission as a responsible business and is led by the Talent, Leadership and Inclusion function within HR. Dedicated A DECADE OF ACTION (PAGE 14) programs, targets and progress updates are managed and measured by this function. 2025 AND 2030 TARGETS In June 2020, Refinitiv introduced a global race target of 25% of colleagues at senior Refinitiv has set environmental targets which we consider to be science-based targets. These leadership level by 2024. This will be informed by country census categories and the have been submitted to the Science Based Targets initiative (SBTi) for formal verification. global markets in which we operate, especially in the UK and US, and will include, for We will update on target verification and progress in upcoming business announcements, example, our Black, Asian and Latino colleagues. We are now strengthening our plans to our annual sustainability reports and through our climate disclosure to the CDP. deliver our measurable actions to achieve this target and will conduct robust monitoring to track progress. The following additional detail applies to our targets: A separate D&I report will be published in 2020 with more detail on Refinitiv’s strategic Halve our business carbon emissions approach and vision. • This applies to scope 1 and 2 emissions, which will continue to be reduced against our 2018 baseline TCFD (PAGE 41) Reduce our business and commuting travel by 25% Refinitiv’s TCFD report utilizes publicly-available data, alongside material Refinitiv business • Business travel reductions will be measured against a 2019 baseline of business travel, operations data, to map a forecasted risk exposure of potential events. This scenario as booked through Refinitiv-managed systems. Employee commuting emissions will modelling is to be used alongside Refinitiv’s ongoing functional, enterprise risk and also be measured against a 2019 baseline and determined using site-level information, business continuity processes, to support the business in its future planning. location specific published transport statistics and census data, together with the most recent emission factors. 49/50 Refinitiv Charities is a registered grant-making charity in England and Wales (No. 1182952). Refinitiv is one of the world’s largest providers of financial markets data and infrastructure, serving over 40,000 institutions in approximately 190 countries. It provides leading data and insights, trading platforms, and open data and technology platforms that connect a thriving global financial markets community – driving performance in trading, investment, wealth management, regulatory compliance, market data management, enterprise risk and fighting financial crime. Visit refinitiv.com @Refinitiv Refinitiv RE1176273/6-20
