Confident Futures Corporate Responsibility Report 2019 2 RSA – Confident Futures Corporate Responsibility Report 2019 Introduction Shaping a smarter tomorrow Building stronger relationships Managing the everyday well Governance Welcome to our 2019 corporate responsibility report 2 Introduction This corporate responsibility report outlines our progress 3 Introduction from our Executive team 4 Who we are towards our Confident Futures strategy. The report covers 6 Our Confident Futures strategy performance across RSA’s global operations in the financial 8 Our global context year 1 January to 31 December 2019. 10 Shaping a smarter tomorrow 11 Identifying, understanding and managing risks Additional online information 13 Spotlight on: Road safety Please visit our Corporate Responsibility 16 Spotlight on: Climate change Reporting Criteria 2019 for information on our reporting approach, scope and boundaries. 19 Building stronger relationships 20 Excellence in customer care 24 A flourishing workforce 28 Active in communities 31 Managing the everyday well 32 Responsible investment and underwriting 34 Sustainable operations 36 Responsible supply chain 38 Customer privacy and data security 40 Business integrity 43 Governance “ 3 RSA – Confident Futures Corporate Responsibility Report 2019 Introduction Shaping a smarter tomorrow Building stronger relationships Managing the everyday well Governance Insurance has a deep-rooted social purpose. Our Confident Futures strategy helps us embed responsibility into how we do business today.” A message from our Group Chief Executive A message from our Group Corporate Responsibility Committee Chair 2019 marked an important The first few months of 2020 have reminded as setting an ambitious new carbon emissions milestone in RSA’s us that nothing is certain. In a world that’s reduction target for our operations. continued commitment constantly changing and facing new challenges, Building stronger relationships with our to responsible business business plays an important role. We have customers, colleagues and communities is with the launch of our new a responsibility to help foster collaboration, at the centre of our strategy. This year, we’ve strategy, Confident Futures. develop solutions to societal problems, and to redesigned sales journeys, improved how we reflect on and continually improve how we work. RSA has a long history listen to and respond to customer feedback, supporting people in their Embracing these opportunities is at the heart and strengthened steps to ensure our products times of need, helping them of RSA’s Confident Futures strategy. As Chair are fair to all. There’s plenty more we need to do, to recover quickly and get of our Group CR Committee, I’m delighted and our plans prioritise it. back on their feet. to share the progress we made during 2019, Looking outside, a 45 per cent increase our first year of implementation. Confident Futures takes this a step further, by enabling in employee volunteering hours shows the people and businesses to manage risks proactively, As we set ambitious goals, we are committed passion of RSA’s people around this agenda. embedding responsible practices into our operations, and to working in partnership with those around us. I’m also proud of the actions we’re taking ensuring environmental and social issues are considered in We can offer insight and expertise on diverse to promote diversity and inclusion, exceeding our business decisions. challenges – whether building resilience to our Women in Finance Charter target for Scott Egan, the effects of climate change, supporting improving gender balance in our management CEO, UK & International How we do business is as important as what we do, and Chair, Group CR Committee low‑carbon transition or helping people to stay group. At the same time, we’ve invested in the our customers, colleagues and partners rightly ask that safe in their day-to-day lives. We must ensure learning and development opportunities we offer we are conscious of this. As signatories to the UN Global that our products and services support good to our colleagues and enhanced support for Compact since 2007, our long-term commitment to the customer outcomes, and that our people are mental health and wellbeing. Ten Principles continues. supported to reach their full potential. Our strategy is at an early stage: RSA’s journey I’m proud of the steps we took in 2019 to address society’s This year, we’ve built the foundations for is just beginning and it will evolve with the world challenges and how we’re responding to the changing our strategy. We developed our charitable around us. I’m proud of the commitment our demands and expectations of our customers. partnerships to align with our ‘Smarter tomorrow’ people show every day to support our local ambition, supporting more than 200,000 people communities and improve what we do, and to improve their knowledge of risks and change I’m looking forward to working with all their behaviours. We launched a new Climate our stakeholders to inspire action, Stephen Hester, Change and Low Carbon Policy to guide our encourage innovation and demonstrate Group Chief Executive underwriting and investment decisions as well the impact of the steps we’re taking. 4 RSA – Confident Futures Corporate Responsibility Report 2019 Introduction Shaping a smarter tomorrow Building stronger relationships Managing the everyday well Governance Who we are We’ve been helping people and businesses to protect At a glance what matters most to them for more than 300 years. RSA provides personal, commercial and We are driven to help individuals and businesses We are always seeking to build our technical £6.4bn specialty insurance through brokers and to manage their risks well, and to support them skills and grasp opportunities for innovation Net written premiums affinity partners and directly to customers, to recover if things don’t go as planned. For us, and collaboration, to better respond to the £383m working across Canada, Scandinavia, the UK, being a best-in-class insurer means applying emerging risks affecting our customers and Ireland, Europe and the Middle East. In all our expertise to big and everyday challenges, to reach a wider audience. At the same time, our regions, we are committed to developing from managing extreme weather patterns to we are committed to managing our business trusted consumer and commercial brands that tackling fraud and helping individuals to stay operations sustainably, having a positive Profit after tax deliver great service and relevant products safe on the road and at home. impact on the communities we work in and 93.6% to our customers. ensuring that RSA is a great place to build a fulfilling career. Combined operating ratio1 Learn more about RSA in our 2019 Annual Report and Accounts. 12,378 Number of employees2 74% Business distributed through brokers and partners 1 Excluding UK&I exit portfolios, please see our 2019 Annual Report and Accounts for further information. 2 Full-time equivalent employees. 5 RSA – Confident Futures Corporate Responsibility Report 2019 Introduction Shaping a smarter tomorrow Building stronger relationships Managing the everyday well Governance Our operations Scandinavia 2019 Net written premium by line of business Sweden, Norway, Denmark £2.8bn £3.6bn £1.8bn 43% Commercial 57% Personal Net written premium 2,616 employees £6.4bn Net written premium 2019 Net written premium by product Canada £1.7bn Household 24% Net written premium Motor 24% 3,056 UK & International Other Personal Lines 9% employees Property 18% UK, Ireland, Oman, Saudi Arabia, UAE, Liability 9% Bahrain, Western Europe Commercial Motor 10% £2.9bn Marine and other 6% Net written premium 6,706 employees3 3 Total includes employees from our Group Corporate Centre. 6 RSA – Confident Futures Corporate Responsibility Report 2019 Introduction Shaping a smarter tomorrow Building stronger relationships Managing the everyday well Governance Our Confident Futures strategy We want to play an active role in managing the uncertainties and complexities of today’s world and to enhance the “ positive impact of our business activities. Our strategy for a confident future As a best-in-class insurer, we believe RSA’s contribution shouldn’t start with a policy and end with a claim. Our five-year corporate responsibility strategy, Confident Futures, Through Confident defines the key focus areas for our business Futures, we are to make the most positive impact on society and the environment. committed to developing It sets out the following: supportive, long‑lasting • How we integrate responsible business relationships with our practices into our everyday operations customers, colleagues • Our ambition to create a future in which and communities.” people can be smarter and more confident Stephen Hester, in managing the risks they face Group Chief Executive We launched our strategy in 2019, and we’re proud to share the achievements made in its first year.  Watch our Confident Futures animation. 7 RSA – Confident Futures Corporate Responsibility Report 2019 Introduction Shaping a smarter tomorrow Building stronger relationships Managing the everyday well Governance Our Confident Futures strategy Shaping a smarter tomorrow Building stronger relationships Managing the everyday well We aim to use our resources to enhance We’re supporting our customers, colleagues We’re improving how we integrate responsible customers’ and society’s understanding and communities by seeking to better business practices into our everyday operations of the risks they face so they can manage understand and respond to their needs and sharing our progress. them more effectively. with clear commitments to action. • O ur new Climate Change and Low Carbon Policy • B  y promoting road safety across our operations, • W  e’ve established forums to ensure that the position clearly sets out our commitment to responsible we’ve reached more than 187,000 people with evidenceviews of customers are represented in all our decisions investment and underwriting based insights that help to change everyday behaviours • W e’ve reduced carbon emissions by 31 per cent • W  e’re building the capabilities of our people, • W  e’ve redefined our partnership with WWF-Canada with 73 per cent of leaders participating in leadership since 2016 and set an ambitious long-term emissions to focus on building flood-resilient communities in development programmes in 2019 reduction target in line with a 1.5oC world response to a changing climate and local needs • W e’re building social and environmental criteria into • W  e’ve invested £1.85m in supporting local • W  e’re expanding our partnerships and campaign communities, with a 45 per cent increase our processes for selecting and managing suppliers, work to identify products and services that support in volunteering hours and supporting our people to think more about our impact risk management through third parties 1.4 billion 32,000 34.6% £1.85m 15 100% miles driven by customers children reached of our Group-wide invested in local reduction in our carbon of the electricity we use using our MORE TH>N with our water management team communities emissions in 2019 will be renewable by 2025 telematics product safety programmes are women 8 RSA – Confident Futures Corporate Responsibility Report 2019 Introduction Shaping a smarter tomorrow Building stronger relationships Managing the everyday well Governance Our global Understanding what’s important We routinely assess the corporate responsibility issues that are most relevant to our business and our stakeholders. context This enables us to prioritise our commitments and resources on areas that are most relevant to our business and to society. These are linked to our strategy below. Confident Futures and ce in e rships et investment Excellen n Part ation to g In a world where our Responsible g custo m er care v inno d of risk s Shaping a smarter & underwritin a he a tomorrow people, customers and hing • Helping customers uris ce communities are facing new inable Susta ions A flo wor kfor to avoid risks t opera challenges, our Confident • Improving resilience n to extreme weather ei s Futures strategy guides pon sibl e n c tiv nitie A mu Res ly chai m our response. su pp co Building stronger relationships • Treating customers fairly y vac In more than 300 years in business, we’ve r pri rity • Delivering excellent customer service me ecu learned that change is a constant. We are sto s • Attracting and retaining talent Cu data committed to managing our operations & • Improving diversity, inclusion and wellbeing in a way that is sensitive to the evolving ss • Supporting local communities context we operate in. As an insurer and s ine ity Bu tegr large employer, we are well placed to help in our customers, people and stakeholders Managing the everyday well to understand and navigate a wide range of • Bribery and corruption complex issues – from climate change and • Human rights and modern slavery cyber-crime to changing skills needs, new • Business ethics ways of working and advances in technology. • Insurance fraud Confident Futures (see pages 6 and 7) • Safeguarding customers’ data helps to guide and govern our response to • Investing responsibly these questions and sets out our ambition • Corporate tax to create a future in which people can be smarter and more confident in managing • Climate change and low-carbon transition the risks they face. • Reducing the environmental impact of our operations 9 RSA – Confident Futures Corporate Responsibility Report 2019 Introduction Shaping a smarter tomorrow Building stronger relationships Managing the everyday well Governance Our contribution to the Sustainable Development Goals Supporting the global agenda The Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs) As a member of the UN Global Compact, We’re committed to communicating our performance transparently and playing our part are a set of 17 goals developed by the United we’re committed to supporting the sustainable in the wider global agenda. To support this, we participate in several industry initiatives. Nations. They form a global agenda that aims development agenda, and we have identified to end poverty, protect the planet and ensure seven SDGs where we have the greatest prosperity for all by 2030. Achieving these opportunity to contribute. This year, we’ve goals requires the collaboration of individuals, highlighted where we contribute to each governments and companies. We are of these SDGs through our strategy, committed to playing our part in solving Confident Futures. these challenges. U  N Global Compact ClimateWise UN PSI As a signatory to the UN ClimateWise is a global The Principles for Sustainable Global Compact since leadership group for the Insurance serve as a 2007, we are committed insurance industry, supporting global framework for the h alt g to integrating the Ten better communication and insurance industry to address 17 1 d he ein 2 o llb Principles on human rights, responses to the risks and environmental, social and 16 Go d we n labour, environment and opportunities associated with governance risks and a 15 3 anti-corruption into the climate change. RSA is proud opportunities. As a signatory, way we do business. to be a member and plays an RSA is committed to active role in building more integrating the principles into 14 4 resilient communities. our business operations. Climate Gender 13 supported 5 equality action by RSA 12 6 Reporting our impact le d sib p on on an We’ve also received recognition for our sustainability s i Re mpt ion nsu uc t 11 7 performance in a number of external corporate benchmarks co prod Su 10 9 8 Aff cl ord ea a and rating indices. s n ble co citi tain en a m es ab er nd m a le un nd ork gy iti t w ic cen om es De econ h t and grow 10 RSA – Confident Futures Corporate Responsibility Report 2019 Introduction Shaping a smarter tomorrow Building stronger relationships Managing the everyday well Governance Shaping a smarter tomorrow As experts in risk, our products, services and partnerships help people and businesses to learn about the risks they face and how to manage them more effectively. In this section Identifying, understanding and managing risks > Working together for safer roads > Building resilience to a changing climate > Highlights 32,000 220,000 children participating people reached through in water safety Smarter Tomorrow programmes programmes Our priority SDGs 11 RSA – Confident Futures Corporate Responsibility Report 2019 Introduction Shaping a smarter tomorrow Building stronger relationships Managing the everyday well Governance Identifying, understanding and managing risks Our approach We can’t remove life’s Innovating products and services to reduce risk uncertainties, but as experts As a leading insurer, it’s our job to understand current and emerging risks. By making use of our data, technology in risk, we know there are Through our products, services and and relationships, we can develop smart many ways for people and partnerships, we can help people and businesses to learn about the risks they solutions that support customers to better understand and manage risks. During 2019, businesses to protect the face, manage them more effectively we mapped the products and services Preventing accidents at home and protect the things they care about. that align to our ambition to increase and on the road things they care about. Our approach involves the following: our customers’ awareness of risk and to change their mindsets and behaviour. In the UK, we have joined forces with We believe we can play a powerful and practical • Developing products and the Royal Society for the Prevention of role in helping our customers to avoid risks, services that support our customers These include the following: Accidents (RoSPA). Together, we aim to using our insight and product development to manage risks • Telematics products, which help reduce the number of people who are expertise to keep them safe in their homes, • Raising awareness of risks and young drivers stay safe behind the wheel seriously injured or killed in accidents on the roads and at work. encouraging behaviour change at home or on the road. In partnership • Our risk engineering database, RSAred, through partnerships, campaigns we commissioned research into the which helps commercial businesses to and education programmes most at-risk demographic groups – identify risk management improvements children under five, young people aged • Connected insurance products such 17–25 and the over-65s. We are now as water leak detectors, which enable using our findings to increase people’s customers to monitor potential risks understanding of hazards, both at home in their homes and on the road, and how they can Mapping these products, alongside the minimise them. 78 ,000 creation of our Smarter Tomorrow Working Group, enables us to share best practice across our business and identify new opportunities for impact. people seriously injured or killed in accidents at home or on the road last year 12 RSA – Confident Futures Corporate Responsibility Report 2019 Introduction Shaping a smarter tomorrow Building stronger relationships Managing the everyday well Governance Raising awareness through partnerships and campaigns Promoting water safety All RSA regions have at least one partnership that is aligned to our Smarter Tomorrow For 60 years, our Trygg-Hansa business Through our partnership with the Swedish ambitions. By partnering with other in Sweden has championed water safety Life Saving Society, schoolchildren are organisations that share our objectives, through campaigns aimed at adults and taught how to swim minimum distances and pooling resources and expertise, and sharing children, as well as maintaining lifebuoys how to throw lifebuoys to someone having networks, we can reach new audiences and at beaches, waterways and boat clubs difficulty in the water. increase the impact of our activities. We focus across the country. Our ongoing Baby Buoy campaign, which on issues that affect the communities we Our summer campaign ‘The sound of educates parents of young children about work in, such as road and water safety. drowning’ drew attention to the fact that it how to keep safe in the water, includes Watch our video to find out more may not be as obvious that someone in the practical exercises to practise at home. about our partnership with RoSPA water is drowning as people may think. Our 8 ,000 on risk education. campaign simulated a drowning victim and highlighted the difficulty a passer-by may have noticing the signs. This challenged the perception that drowning victims would flail lifebuoys provided their arms (43 per cent) or cry for help across Sweden (38 per cent); most victims are unable 32,000 to call out or give distress signals. swimming lessons provided for schoolchildren in 2019 13 RSA – Confident Futures Corporate Responsibility Report 2019 Introduction Shaping a smarter tomorrow Building stronger relationships Managing the everyday well Governance Spotlight on: Road safety Working together for safer roads With the number of cars on the roads increasing, road safety remains a significant social challenge. As an insurer, we have a unique perspective and understanding of risk on the roads. By sharing this knowledge and supporting safety measures, we can help motorists and other road users to stay safe. The challenge A focus on road safety • Since 2000, the number of cars on the road The average adult spends about 10 per cent of in the countries where we operate has risen their lives on the road. And while young drivers by 35 per cent to record levels of more than are disproportionately represented in road 74 million. casualty statistics, it’s also an issue for older motorists, as well as pedestrians and cyclists. • Every year, road traffic incidents are responsible for more than 1 million deaths, Any serious injury or fatality as a result of a and are the leading cause of death for road traffic accident is one too many. Making 5–29 year-olds around the world. our roads safer is a key focus area for us, with all our regional businesses campaigning for • With new technologies supporting improved road safety. autonomous vehicles, roads will need to change – the first fully autonomous cars There’s always more that can be done; may be on the road by 2025. achieving safer roads needs the collaboration of governments, local authorities, business and charities. Through our partnerships, Contributing to SDG 3: commitments and campaigns, we want Good health and well-being to play our part. Our work to improve road safety contributes towards UN SDG target 3.6: to halve the number of global deaths and injuries from road traffic accidents by 2020. 14 RSA – Confident Futures Corporate Responsibility Report 2019 Introduction Shaping a smarter tomorrow Building stronger relationships Managing the everyday well Governance Spotlight on: Road safety A lifelong approach: Older drivers are also at risk. Since 2010, there it’s up to drivers of all ages has been a 33 per cent increase in the number of older drivers killed or seriously injured in TruceTO – building harmony on Canada’s streets Drivers of any age can improve their ability or road traffic accidents. In response to this, we’re address bad habits. In response to an increase RSA Canada’s TruceTO campaign aims to To change mindsets and empower exploring opportunities to improve road safety “ in road traffic accidents in Denmark in recent make Toronto one of the first cities in North everyone to take responsibility for keeping among over-65s. years, Codan ran a refresher ‘theory test’ America to officially call a truce between our streets safe, we created the TruceTO campaign online. This tested drivers on the pedestrians, cyclists and drivers. Launched hub: a toolkit of useful resources and top laws of the road and their practical experience. in 2018, the pioneering road safety tips for all road users. 6,000 people With more than half of the participants campaign seeks to address the growth believing they could easily pass the test, the in road accident fatalities and the lack of campaign reminded drivers of the basics and drew attention to scenarios that cause road By encouraging education around safe practices by bringing together different road users to have engaged with our DriveWise materials traffic accidents. During the year, 177,000 Canadians to look out a positive conversation. Danish drivers completed the 10-minute online theory test and 3 million watched the video. for one another, be Our own research showed the following: Building on a successful first year, in 2019, we teamed up with DriveWise to more mindful of their 57% provide online learning modules and reach In the UK, we’ve also increased awareness of the part that in-car distractions – such as surroundings and educate consumers through interactive messaging on the streets. We also launched an phone calls, adjusting the radio or children shouting – can play in causing accidents. themselves on the rules of cyclists and 44 per cent of pedestrians want their cities educational video, road safety quiz and In research we commissioned for Road Safety of the road, we hope our to invest in driver education podcast series, StreetPeace, encouraging everyone to do their bit. Week, nearly all (84 per cent) drivers admitted pledge will help reduce 50% to taking their eyes off the road as a result of Find out more about the campaign a distraction in the last year, with 28 per cent fatalities and increase on the TruceTO website. saying it led to an accident or near miss. The findings build on MORE TH>N’s Give the level of harmony of pedestrians don’t always know Your Mobile the Boot campaign in 2017, on Canadian roads.” when cyclists have the right of way which advised motorists to put down their 33% mobiles when driving. Donna Ince, Senior Vice President, Personal Lines, RSA Canada of cyclists have seen an unfamiliar road sign recently 15 RSA – Confident Futures Corporate Responsibility Report 2019 Introduction Shaping a smarter tomorrow Building stronger relationships Managing the everyday well Governance Spotlight on: Road safety Children: be seen, be safe Wearing a reflector increases the chance of a Young drivers: using technology In the UK: cyclist being seen on the road by 85 per cent. to influence behaviour Understanding how to behave safely on or near That’s why our Scandinavian business also Young men aged 17–24 the road is a critical life skill developed from Young drivers and passengers are continues to work with the Children’s Accident an early age. That’s why we work with schools over-represented in crash and casualty Prevention Fund to support National Reflector to provide road safety resources for children. statistics. Training, education and technology Day in Denmark, Norway and Greenland. This can all help to make young drivers safer drivers. are the highest-risk group In Denmark, Codan partners with the Traffic year, colleagues distributed 40,000 reflectors and promoted the benefits of wearing among car drivers Safety at Eye Level campaign to teach RSA introduced the SM>RT WHEELS “ children to recognise common blind spots reflectors when cycling. telematics policies for newly qualified In 2018 83% for road users, reaching 4,275 children across drivers in 2014. These products use ‘black 43 schools in 2019. From the driving seat, box’ technology to influence behavioural young people get to see first-hand how lorry change, raising awareness of key factors drivers can’t always spot cyclists when they such as speed, braking, accelerating and of road transport accident deaths are behind or alongside the vehicle. More than driving at night. Customers are incentivised in this age group were male 760 children made the ‘traffic promise’ online, In-car distractions to drive safely with feedback on their driving not only put drivers’ 1 million and one child was named Traffic Hero of the and discounts at renewal to reward the Year for making a significant difference in safest drivers. Warnings or cancellations raising awareness of road safety. lives at risk, but those are used to manage the driving behaviour active telematics policies of passengers and of a small number of customers who drive dangerously. Behavioural psychology is (estimated by BIBA) pedestrians too. We hope also used to maximise the effectiveness that highlighting some of our communications with customers. 12% of the most common Using insights shared by our UK business, in 2019, we launched our 123GO telematics reduction in the number of young distractions will help offer for young drivers in Ireland. Incentivising drivers killed or seriously injured in drivers to remain vigilant good driver behaviour through a rewards scheme has had a positive impact on road traffic accidents since 2010 and reduce the likelihood reducing accidents. of an accident occurring.” Gareth Davies, Head of Motor Insurance, 123GO MORE TH>N 16 RSA – Confident Futures Corporate Responsibility Report 2019 Introduction Shaping a smarter tomorrow Building stronger relationships Managing the everyday well Governance Spotlight on: Climate change Building resilience to a changing climate As we strive to reduce our carbon emissions, we must also build resilience to the impacts of a changing climate. We’re helping our customers to adapt, by sharing knowledge on how they can protect their homes and businesses from extreme weather events such as floods, storms, wildfires and drought. The challenge Responding to a changing world • With carbon emissions at their highest levels The impact of a changing climate is undeniable, since records began, our planet has already and the science behind global warming shows warmed 1.1oC since pre-industrial times. us that we need to act now if we are to limit temperature rises to 1.5˚C or below. • Unless we take action to reduce emissions, the world will experience more frequent and As an insurer, we are acutely attuned to more severe weather events. the impact of climate change and other environmental issues. Extreme weather events, • In 2018, the economic cost of weather-related climate action failure, natural disasters and losses was $215bn. Insured losses were biodiversity loss all feature among the top $89bn, the fourth-costliest year on record. 10 issues in the World Economic Forum’s most recent Global Risks Report. Contributing to SDG 13: Climate action Our work to build resilience to environmental change contributes towards UN SDG targets 13.1 and 13.3: to strengthen resilience and adaptive capacity to climate-related hazards, and to improve education, awareness-raising and capacity on climate change adaptation. 17 RSA – Confident Futures Corporate Responsibility Report 2019 Introduction Shaping a smarter tomorrow Building stronger relationships Managing the everyday well Governance Spotlight on: Climate change The past five years have been the warmest on record. As temperatures continue to rise, the imperative to reduce emissions rapidly Collaborating for climate-resilient communities The need for education In 2019, we conducted a joint study with 74% Our Canadian business has redirected WWF to explore Canadian attitudes to flooding. of Canadians agreed that flooding increases. Nonetheless, adaptation measures its long-standing partnership with Increased rates of flooding are taking a toll, has increased in Canada are also necessary, as climate change impacts WWF-Canada to address flood resilience with almost a third of respondents worried they 77% communities around the world. in local communities, starting with the Saint will experience flooding in the next 12 months. We chaired the CRO Forum’s Emerging John River in New Brunswick. Despite growing concerns, flood knowledge Risk Initiative in 2018, bringing together key Communities across Canada have experienced among the public remains low. Our study attributed increased stakeholders from the insurance industry more frequent and intense rain and wind uncovered that nearly half of those surveyed flooding to climate change and academia to consider the latest climate 31% events due to climate change, leading to don’t know how to protect their home from science. The forum provided an industry flooding and damage to homes, businesses flooding and don’t fully understand its impact. perspective on the physical and transition risks and public infrastructure. Through our support, Our partnership aims to improve climate and associated with different climate scenarios. WWF-Canada is working with community flood education in Canada and champion are concerned they could experience The resulting report, published in 2019, aims leaders to assess vulnerabilities and build nature-based resilience measures. We also flooding in the next year to improve understanding of the implications resilience through nature-based solutions encourage government, industry and local 47% of climate change on the insurance sector and green infrastructure, including rebuilding communities to collaborate on practical and equip industry professionals and their wetlands, restoring riverbanks, replanting trees solutions that work for all in reducing the stakeholders to respond. and managing overland flooding. impact of flooding. don’t know how to protect Our long-term goal is to share these learnings themselves against flooding and replicate the approach in other at-risk Aggregate global weather-related insured communities across Canada. This year, we’ll losses by peril 2000–2018 be developing community resilience toolkits and recommendations based on our work in Tropical cyclone $1,253bn the Saint John River watershed, as well as Flooding $914bn exploring educational opportunities for our customers and brokers. Severe weather $514bn Drought $372bn $3,455bn Winter weather $164bn Wildfire $149bn European windstorm $74bn Other $15bn Source: Aon (2019) ‘Weather, Climate & Catastrophe Insight 2018 Annual Report’ 18 RSA – Confident Futures Corporate Responsibility Report 2019 Introduction Shaping a smarter tomorrow Building stronger relationships Managing the everyday well Governance Spotlight on: Climate change “ Helping customers Our products and policies also help to manage flood risks protect our customers. In Canada, we offer The insurance industry can influence In many cases, Canadians ‘Waterproof coverage’ for enhanced protection how other sectors address climate change To make our customers more aware of the against damage caused by storms and through the way premiums are invested don’t know that they are climate-related risks they face and help build them into their planning, we provide extreme flooding, and in the UK, Flood Re ensures and decisions on what can be insured. at risk from flooding and that customers living in high-risk flood In 2019, we launched our Climate Change weather alerts, and offer advice and guidance zones have access to insurance. and Low Carbon Policy position to guide aren’t sure what they can for reducing or responding to the impact of our approach. 100+ such events. do to protect themselves. We share our insight and expertise through Find out more in the ‘Responsible We have to band our website and social media campaigns. flood victims visited our emergency underwriting and investment’ section on pages 32 and 33. together as an industry, These include tips and guides tailored to the needs of individuals, families, small businesses response van for advice on flood recovery community and with all and large organisations. Through our risk levels of government to engineering database RSAred, we identify and recommend risk management improvements do a better job in helping to our commercial customers. For example, on To tackle increasing emissions, we need to be mindful of our own direct impact. We’ve adopted the recommendations of the Taskforce on Climate-related Financial people recognise the flooding, 90 per cent of our recommendations relate to response planning, while 10 per cent That’s why we launched a new carbon Disclosures in our reporting. risks they are exposed relate to physical improvements such as site emissions reduction target this year. See pages 47–49 of our Annual to and provide tools that defences or changes in infrastructure. Find out more in the ‘Sustainable operations’ section on page 34. Report and Accounts for information on how we integrate result in immediate and climate change into our sustainable solutions.” governance, risk management and business strategy. Anthony Black, National Catastrophe Manager, RSA Canada 19 RSA – Confident Futures Corporate Responsibility Report 2019 Introduction Shaping a smarter tomorrow Building stronger relationships Managing the everyday well Governance Building stronger relationships We value strong relationships, and strive to understand and respond to the needs of our key stakeholders. We’re committed to supporting our customers, developing our colleagues and making a positive contribution to the communities we’re part of. In this section Excellence in customer care > A flourishing workforce > Active in communities > Highlights £1.85m invested to support 73% of leaders took local communities part in leadership development programmes Our priority SDGs 20 RSA – Confident Futures Corporate Responsibility Report 2019 Introduction Shaping a smarter tomorrow Building stronger relationships Managing the everyday well Governance Excellence in customer care We’re there for our customers every step of the way, from Our starting point is to provide everyone in our business with the guidance and support they In the UK, the policy is supported by our Conduct Framework, which guides our decisions designing products that protect them from risks to helping need to act in our customers’ best interests. and ensures we serve our customers well. It them recover if things go wrong. We constantly challenge We also monitor a range of indicators that help us assess whether we are doing the right thing, also documents the governance, processes and tools we use to identify, assess and manage ourselves to respond to evolving needs and find new ways including customer satisfaction and complaints. potential and actual risks at every stage of the customer journey. We recognise that everyone to make our service better, so that customers can be There’s always more we can do to improve in our business needs to be familiar with the how we serve our customers and we don’t confident of a good outcome. always get it right. We believe that by acting framework, and are supporting its roll-out with e-learning and face-to-face training. on the feedback we receive and looking to examples from other sectors we can keep Customer committees and governance Our progress in 2019 Securing good learning and continually improve our practice. Our regional customer committees meet customer outcomes Policy and training regularly to understand how the policy is • Established dedicated forums working in practice, review key management Our Customer Policy sits at the heart of our to ensure customers are represented We are committed to securing good outcomes approach to delivering excellent customer information and determine whether we need to in all our decision making for every customer, ensuring that no group’s care. It outlines how our strategy, decision make changes to improve customer outcomes. needs are overlooked. While our customers • New investment in digital tools to making, product design, processes and These committees help to ensure that our range from individuals to multinational improve our customer management communications can all contribute to good internal processes, digital journeys and businesses, our ambition to provide them with information, monitor outcomes and customer outcomes and sets out the steps communications support good customer excellent support and service doesn’t change. address emerging issues faster that each of our businesses should take to outcomes, that complaints are investigated and uphold the high standards we expect. resolved, and that we have the management • Simplified our organisation design and improved multi-channel communications information we need to guide our practice. to make it easier to interact with RSA 21 RSA – Confident Futures Corporate Responsibility Report 2019 Introduction Shaping a smarter tomorrow Building stronger relationships Managing the everyday well Governance Product oversight groups Meeting customer needs Supporting customers Maintaining effective product oversight and in difficult circumstances Securing good outcomes for our customers governance is critical to the consistent delivery Ensuring good customer outcomes is starts with understanding them. We know of good customer outcomes. We’ve introduced particularly important if a customer faces that our customers’ needs vary and continue product oversight groups to identify whether difficult circumstances or has complex needs. to evolve, so we’re always searching for new any elements of our products and customer We aim to listen carefully and provide services ways to improve what we do. We constantly journeys have the potential to lead to customer that meet their specific requirements, making seek feedback and aim to bring the voice harm or poor outcomes, and take action to sure that customers who might be vulnerable, of our customers into our decision making, address this wherever it occurs. They monitor excluded or less financially resilient receive drawing on market research, feedback panels a range of inputs from our sales and claims the additional support they need. and satisfaction data. teams, and review changes to both existing and new products. Product performance monitoring Meeting our customers’ We closely monitor how our products perform specialist needs to ensure we are meeting customer needs Family Aid – for our customers and expectations. Product assessments are with child insurance In the UK, our Motability business completed whenever changes are introduced, supports customers with muscular helping us to understand how our customers Based on our insights into the lives and mobility-based conditions as well interact with our products. In the UK, our of Swedish families, Trygg-Hansa as brain injuries and mental health Product Assessment toolkit reviews the offers a unique Family Aid service to conditions. In 2018, we launched the compatibility of products with customer needs. all our child insurance policyholders. Customer Connections Programme, This year, we have developed enhanced The service provides guidance to families training employees to provide additional customer outcome metrics to monitor conduct on accessing support and advice support to customers with cognitive through the product life cycle. appropriate to their individual needs. disorders such as autism and dementia. Customers are entitled to guidance We now have 75 trained autism regardless of diagnosis or whether they champions. During 2019, the Motability go on to make a claim. Since Family Aid team was recognised as an autismwas introduced in 2013, the number of friendly business by Autism Together. customers using the service has grown continuously, with a 59 per cent increase in 2019 compared to 2018. 22 RSA – Confident Futures Corporate Responsibility Report 2019 Introduction Shaping a smarter tomorrow Building stronger relationships Managing the everyday well Governance Consistently delivering Responding to feedback and complaints excellent service Sometimes things don’t turn out as we would have liked, and how we respond in these It’s important that we do what we say we’ll instances is important. We aim to make it do. Our assessment tools and frameworks easy for customers to raise concerns and help us to monitor our progress, identify areas have their complaints resolved promptly. where we fall short and make improvements. By addressing issues, understanding the root For example, in Canada, the Claims leadership cause of complaints and managing incidents team is using customer experience metrics to effectively, we’re constantly seeking to improve improve processes, design more customerour processes and products to enable fair and centric communications and introduce an timely outcomes for our customers. online claims portal. Being transparent and clear Hear from RSA colleague Helen on how We know it’s important that the products and our Claims team go above and beyond for our customers. services we design, the systems we use and the communications we share are clear, fair and accessible to all. This helps customers to understand what they are buying and whether Meeting our customers’ needs it will deliver what they want. We also invest in employee training so that our call handlers During 2019, we redesigned our customer journeys in the UK to enhance how we offer offer the best service possible, helping our products that best meet our customers’ needs, in line with regulations. We’ve updated customers to make informed choices. the questions we ask during the purchasing process so customers are only presented with products that are relevant to them – for example, not offering buildings insurance to people who are renting. We’ve also gone further, responding to customer feedback and trends in complaints to make improvements over and above the regulatory requirements. For example, customers now actively accept or decline our add-ons cover, to reduce the risk that they think they have cover for something they don’t. Through this work, we have made changes to 100 sales journeys, with updates to 19 website journeys, 14 call handler guides, policy documentation and training for more than 750 colleagues. These changes mean our customers can make more informed choices about what is covered by their policy, reducing complaints and improving customer outcomes, and they have provided additional insights to inform product design. 100 750 sales journeys updated colleagues trained in new customer journeys 23 RSA – Confident Futures Corporate Responsibility Report 2019 Introduction Shaping a smarter tomorrow Building stronger relationships Managing the everyday well Governance Evolving our approach in a changing world Launching our claims Next steps Digitisation advice line • Through our Customer Improvement As we adapt to a changing world, we are Programme, focus on behaviours embracing digitisation and making customer In Canada, we piloted a new advice that support a customer-centric interactions as easy as possible across line in 2019 to provide customers with approach and improve our tools all channels. We track customer feedback objective advice about their claims. This so that we consistently deliver good and respond to trends such as the rise in tool helps customers to decide whether customer outcomes online interactions. We continually invest making a claim is right for their situation • Work across our regions to develop in technology such as our webchat service after speaking with one of our service consistent minimum standards that and adoption of AI speech analytics tools to specialists. Following positive feedback underpin our Customer Policy deliver a positive experience while protecting from a pilot conducted in Ontario, we’ve customer data and security. expanded the claims advice line to • Invest in technology to deliver positive Our digital-first mindset Alberta, with plans to continue rolling out changes to the customer journey, Innovation in Sweden to a larger customer base. including expanding the use of We recognise that customers have to weigh up speech analytics a number of different factors when they engage In Sweden, we’ve introduced with insurers – the price of cover, the impact a easy-to-use digital solutions that claim might have on future premiums and the simplify the customer journey, in benefits of different providers. We’re always response to a growing preference for seeking new ways to update and improve online interaction. Our goal is to be our propositions, whether that’s by launching a leading digital insurance company, new services such as our claims advice and this new approach has given line, recognising customer loyalty through us access to richer data and deeper M> Rewards or developing cover for customer insights. For example, our emerging cyber risks. photo inspections for motor claims allow customers to send a picture of a damaged part instead of having to drive to a workshop. This saves customers time and hassle, as well as reducing CO2 emissions from unnecessary journeys.  ind out more about our F sustainable claims solutions in the ‘Responsible supply chain’ section on page 37. 24 RSA – Confident Futures Corporate Responsibility Report 2019 Introduction Shaping a smarter tomorrow Building stronger relationships Managing the everyday well Governance A flourishing workforce We want RSA to be a place where fulfilling careers are built. In Scandinavia, we have focused on We are committed to improving our 2018 equipping leaders with the skills to effectively engagement score by investing in leadership, That’s why we’re creating a diverse and inclusive workplace coach and develop their people, as well developing a high-performing culture, and and helping our people to develop the capabilities they, and as training 170 leaders on effective change management techniques. promoting wellness and inclusion. our business, need to thrive. Building capability We support our people to keep pace with 90% the changing needs of our business and of employees believe there is good progress their careers through formal learning collaboration and teamwork Our progress in 2019 Building fulfilling careers and development, as well as on-the-job • Delivered leadership development programmes across our business To secure a successful and sustainable business well into the future, we need to offer experience, coaching and mentoring. Our Technical Academy focuses on 127,000 h urs fulfilling careers and build a talent pipeline of developing core insurance technical skills invested in training by UK&I employees • Achieved target for 33 per cent of people with the right skills. Our people strategy, across the Group. This year we launched a 100% our management group to be women YourBestU, sets out our ambitions for our new technical induction programme in the UK (34.6 per cent) workforce and encourages them to bring their covering topics such as reinsurance, claims • 78 per cent of people leaders in the best selves to work every day. During 2019, and portfolio management. UK completed training on building we invested in the skills and capabilities of of employees receive regular performance inclusive cultures Assessing employee engagement and career development reviews our people at all levels of our organisation. Every two years, we undertake a Group• Celebrated World Mental Health Day, Developing our business leaders wide engagement survey to understand how empowering colleagues to talk openly We offer leadership development opportunities empowered and enabled our employees feel. about their own mental health throughout the business, focusing on leadership behaviours, vision and values, listening skills and inclusion. For example, senior leaders in Canada attended development academies offered through the Ivey Business School at the University of Western Ontario. More than 50 leaders participated in the sessions, with many more people leaders expected to complete the training in 2020. Meanwhile our UK programmes ‘Connected Leaders’ and ‘Accelerate’ have reached 240 people. 25 RSA – Confident Futures Corporate Responsibility Report 2019 Introduction Shaping a smarter tomorrow Building stronger relationships Managing the everyday well Governance A diverse and inclusive workplace Committed to gender balance Employee gender diversity Gender balance is a key priority for RSA and Celebrating difference the insurance sector as a whole. In 2019, we We believe the best way to nurture a continued our commitment to gender diversity and high‑performing, engaged workforce is to increasing the number of women in senior roles. celebrate difference and enable our people to bring their true selves to work. We do this The Board is committed to improving diversity among its members and at senior management 44% 56% by building diversity across all levels of our organisation and creating an inclusive culture level, and aspires to meet the recommendations that attracts, encourages and is strengthened of the Hampton-Alexander Review: that by by diverse perspectives. 2020, 33 per cent of Board roles and at least 33 per cent of senior leadership positions Our Diversity and Inclusion (D&I) Council should be held by women. We are also provides governance for our D&I activity. signatories to the Women in Finance Charter. The Group Council reviews gender UK gender pay gap Leadership for success in Ireland representation statistics every quarter and In 2019, we have achieved these targets, oversees progress in each region against our with women making up 33.3 per cent of Median In Ireland, we are a founding partner of LIFT (Leading D&I strategy. Our regional D&I Councils are our Group Board and 34.6 per cent of our 29% Ireland’s Future Together), an initiative that aims to build supported by champions and ambassadors, management group. 29.7% better leaders across the country. We are also working focused on building an inclusive culture. This is supported by our membership of the with the Irish Centre for Diversity to deliver training on Mean For the first time, RSA sponsored the 30% Club in the UK, which aims to create a inclusive leadership to people leaders. 31.7% Dive In Festival, a global movement step change in the number of women attaining 33.6% dedicated to making the insurance industry senior and Board-level roles. We also run more inclusive through inspirational talks, an employee resource group, RSA Balance, debates and engaging content. RSA was empowering female employees to achieve their UK bonus pay gap proud to support its social mobility session in personal and professional ambitions. London, a panel discussion on mental health Median Our Gender Pay Gap Report sets out the in Manchester and a session on the positive 39.3% clear actions we are taking and the progress impact of inclusion in Dublin. 15% we are making to close our gender pay and bonus gaps in the UK. Mean Target 75.1% 33 per cent of our management group 69.1% to be women by 2020. 2019 2018 Achieved 34.6% of management group are women 26 RSA – Confident Futures Corporate Responsibility Report 2019 Introduction Shaping a smarter tomorrow Building stronger relationships Managing the everyday well Governance “ Empowering our colleagues Being truly inclusive also means recognising We understand that diversity goes far beyond the value that local talent can add to our Supporting development gender balance, and we want all of our business. For example, in our Middle Eastern through apprenticeships Being inclusive and in the UK colleagues to feel that RSA is an inclusive and supportive place to work. That’s why business, we have been attracting and developing local talent from Saudi Arabia, supportive really allows In 2019, RSA joined The 5% Club. our UK business has rolled out unconscious Oman and the UAE. More than 40 local employees to come to As part of the commitment, at least bias training to people leaders. This training will continue in 2020, with leaders cascading colleagues from Oman have been promoted to team leader positions in our call centres. work and be their best 5 per cent of RSA’s workforce will be made up of apprentices, sponsored the information down to their teams and selves. That’s a real focus students and new graduates over the encouraging open, honest conversations. Learn more about why an inclusive culture is so important at RSA in for us and it’s vital to a next five years. The Board also supports the recommendations this short video. Currently, 278 RSA employees are on of the Parker Review on improving the successful organisation.” apprenticeship programmes and we aim representation of diverse social and ethnic to double this by 2022, helping new and backgrounds. The Board aims to have at Donna Ince, Senior Vice President, least one BAME (Black, Asian and minority Personal Lines, RSA Canada existing employees to learn on the job. ethnic) member, and we are currently meeting Hear from RSA colleague Adam this aim. on how he joined RSA as an underwriting apprentice this year. Our RSA Pride employee resource group led our participation in Pride celebrations and marches around the world. We were sponsors of Sunderland Pride, while in Dublin and Galway, our offices were branded with rainbow colours, signalling our commitment to D&I to customers and members of the public. 2019/2020 RSA is a member of Working Families, RSA is an accredited Living Wage provider. a charity that helps working parents, carers and their employers to find a better balance between responsibilities at home and in the workplace. 27 RSA – Confident Futures Corporate Responsibility Report 2019 Introduction Shaping a smarter tomorrow Building stronger relationships Managing the everyday well Governance “ Championing mental health Next steps With a positive attitude to mental health an • Focus on gender balance, wider ever-increasing priority for us, we encourage I’m really pleased that inclusion and unconscious bias our people to speak openly about their mental health and to ask for help when they need it. we recognise the equal training across the organisation On World Mental Health Day 2019, our UK&I importance of mental • Continue to build high-performing teams across our regions, taking into CEO, Scott Egan, joined a small group of health alongside physical account varying workforce cultures colleagues to record a podcast discussing mental health, resilience and their personal health as part of our • Develop and reinforce our culture RSA Canada recognised as a top employer stories. The session was shared on our workplace wellbeing. through performance management tools and training website and streamed more than 300 times. We are working hard The RSA Canada team was named as one of Canada’s Top 100 Employers for 2020, Our UK and Canadian businesses support employees experiencing mental illness through to nurture a supportive acknowledging its diverse and inclusive their network of Mental Health First Aiders. and open environment culture, commitment to high performance, learning and development opportunities, Our Canadian colleagues also participated in the ‘Not myself today’ campaign, where all colleagues and support for community activities. fostering mentally healthy workplaces in know where they can partnership with the Canadian Mental Health Association. In addition, our Employee access additional support Assistance Programmes, which offer services whenever needed.” such as counselling and expert advice on Tony Bough, UK Head of Health, dealing with life events and concerns, are Safety and Wellbeing open to employees across a range of sites who are looking for extra support. Read more about how we’re supporting mental health through community partnerships on pages 28 and 29. 28 RSA – Confident Futures Corporate Responsibility Report 2019 Introduction Shaping a smarter tomorrow Building stronger relationships Managing the everyday well Governance Active in communities We value our relationships with the communities we’re This year, we’ve focused on the following: Making a difference in our communities part of. Through encouraging employee volunteering and • Water safety – raising awareness of the risks around drowning and hosting summer swim As well as focusing on risk education, supporting local causes, we can make a positive difference schools for children through our partnership we support local causes linked to mental to the people and places around us. with the Swedish Life Saving Society health, social inclusion, education and • Road safety – promoting responsible employability, and environmental improvement. actions through our TruceTO campaign to Mental health create safer streets for cyclists, drivers and By working with national and local Our progress Long-term community pedestrians, and support for the annual organisations, we’re aiming to reduce the investment partnerships National Reflector Day in Scandinavia stigma around mental health and seeking to • Invested £1.85m in local communities through cash, time and in-kind It’s important that we work to strengthen Read more about these partnerships prevent and treat mental illness. Our Swedish contributions, an increase of 18 per cent our local communities – whether that’s in the ‘Shaping a smarter tomorrow’ business, Trygg-Hansa, insures approximately through helping people in times of need or section on pages 10 to 18. 750,000 children and young people and • Established long-term partnerships by empowering our employees to support the recognises the need for greater advice for that address safety, mental health charitable organisations that matter to them. children and families experiencing mental and education health issues. Throughout 2019, we focused on creating more • 11,911 hours of employee volunteering strategic community partnerships in line with We have partnered with Children’s Rights in 2019, a 45 per cent increase our ambitions for risk education and behaviour in Society (BRIS) since 2018, to increase • Adopted the London Benchmarking change. These partnerships are aligned with awareness and knowledge about children’s Group framework to measure and report our Smarter Tomorrow objectives, and offer mental health and the importance of giving our corporate community investment our people the chance to share their time and early support. Our financial support in 2019 expertise with their communities. funded a BRIS support coordinator to help provide advice around the clock. 29 RSA – Confident Futures Corporate Responsibility Report 2019 Introduction Shaping a smarter tomorrow Building stronger relationships Managing the everyday well Governance In Canada, we became the first official Social inclusion corporate partner of A Dollar A Day, raising Our people are passionate about tackling funds in aid of front-line mental health and Mental health support issues such as homelessness and isolation for colleagues addiction programmes. During 2019, we hosted among the elderly. In 2019, 10 per cent of our employee awareness and fundraising events, community investment went to addressing We encourage all our colleagues to have and contributed more than CAN$100,000 to social inclusion. In Denmark, we established open conversations about their mental the partnership. In October, we teamed up a new focus for our community work with health and talk about any difficulties with A Dollar A Day in support of World Mental Ældre Sagen to support volunteers who visit they may be facing. Our UK network of Health Day, raising more than CAN$10,000 for older people, while our UK employees raised mental health first aiders are on hand to front-line mental health organisations through £45,000 for social inclusion projects. offer support and hold non-judgmental a month-long employee contest. conversations with colleagues. Education and employability Conservation awards “ Read more about how we’re championing Across the Group, our employees supported mental health among our employees on education and employability by volunteering in page 27. schools and community groups to share their In the Channel Islands, the Insurance skills and experience. In the UK, for example, Corporation hosts annual conservation 240 young people benefitted from our work awards, with a top prize of £2,000 going with East London Business Alliance (ELBA), to a community-based organisation to Community investment by theme Mental health is very the Skills Builder Partnership and London Links, with employees dedicating 900 hours put towards environmental initiatives. Winners in 2019 included The Soil Farm, important to our company, to career insight days, mentoring and activities a project that manages waste streams in our employees and our to improve social mobility. Guernsey to regenerate soil health, and The DolFin Project, which researches customers. We wanted Environment In 2019, seven per cent of our community dolphins in the Bailiwick waters. We also to do our part to help activity supported environmental action, recognise the best school project and a young conservationist of the year. change the conversation with employees participating in a range of conservation and environmental activities, and empower individuals from improving local parks and woodland to address an issue that to initiatives designed to reduce waste. Risk education 16% impacts each and every Mental health 7% one of us.” Social inclusion 10% Ken Bennett, Education and employability 30% President, Johnson Insurance Environment 7% Other 30% 30 RSA – Confident Futures Corporate Responsibility Report 2019 Introduction Shaping a smarter tomorrow Building stronger relationships Managing the everyday well Governance Empowering employee Total community investment volunteering 2019 2018 2017 2016 We want our people to feel connected to their local communities, so we offer every Charitable donations (£) 1,365,064 1,305,148 1,423,358 1,315,931 RSA colleague an annual two-day volunteering Volunteering value (£) 330,616 239,587 248,971 168,115 allowance. This year, we relaunched our Community Investment Policy, and Gifts in kind value (£) 149,730 12,818 68,269 105,917 we’ve seen a marked increase in support Total value of cash contributions (£) 1,845,410 1,557,553 1,679,158 1,589,963 for community activities across our regions. In the UK, we have also strived to make Leveraged funds: Employee community volunteering more accessible fundraising (including payroll giving) (£) 312,702 285,276 265,928 153,830 Cleaning up in Canada for our call-centre employees. This helped us to increase volunteering within our UK In the summer of 2019, 375 volunteers business by 55 per cent in 2019, with Volunteering hours 11,911 8,193 13,636 14,428 from RSA Canada joined WWF-Canada’s colleagues contributing 7,330 hours to Average volunteering hours per FTE 0.97 0.67 0.42 0.46 Great Canadian Shoreline Clean-up for the community activities. Our community investment values are reported in line with the London Benchmark Group guidelines. third consecutive year, collecting 586kg In Canada, our Dollars for Doers scheme of litter. Volunteers took to beaches and enables colleagues who reach 100 volunteer rivers to remove plastics and other waste, hours to apply for a CAN$500 donation as part of our long-standing partnership to their chosen charity. Matching donations with WWF-Canada, which educates Raising money for charities is important to Next steps colleagues about the impact of plastics on Find out what inspires RSA colleague Jabraan Shazad, chair of our Manchester our people, which is why we offer a popular • Engage and enable more colleagues our oceans, wildlife and communities. charity committee, to become a volunteer. match-funding scheme in the UK and Canada, to participate in community activities, and payroll-giving schemes in the UK and particularly through volunteering Ireland. By matching our people’s own • Align our Smarter Tomorrow fundraising, we’ve seen employees leverage partnerships more closely to our £312,700 this year. community programmes through Combined with our employee contributions employee-led activities of time and strategic community partnerships, • Scale up our new partnership with these activities contributed to a total Ældre Sagen in Denmark to tackle investment of £2.16m in 2019. loneliness and isolation among the elderly £10,000 31 RSA – Confident Futures Corporate Responsibility Report 2019 Introduction Shaping a smarter tomorrow Building stronger relationships Managing the everyday well Governance Managing the everyday well We want people to be confident that we’re running our business in the way they’d expect. This means being responsible in our investment and underwriting practices, thoughtful in our choice of suppliers and partners, and mindful of our environmental impact. In this section Responsible investment and underwriting > Sustainable operations > Responsible supply chain > Customer privacy and data security > Business integrity > Highlights 80% of UK suppliers assessed 31% reduction in carbon on ESG management emissions since 2016 through new supplier due diligence portal Our priority SDGs 32 RSA – Confident Futures Corporate Responsibility Report 2019 Introduction Shaping a smarter tomorrow Building stronger relationships Managing the everyday well Governance Responsible investment and underwriting The choices we make about our investments To oversee our approach, we have established We are committed to contributing to efforts an ESG Committee, chaired by our Group that reduce carbon emissions and accelerate and the risks that we underwrite are an important Chief Risk Officer and comprising senior the transition to a lower-carbon future. We opportunity for positive impact. We are working to representatives from investment, underwriting and risk teams. The committee is responsible recently launched our Climate Change and Low Carbon Policy, which outlines our role in embed environmental, social and governance (ESG) for assessing key issues, recommending our insuring renewable energy generation projects company position and monitoring how these and restricts capacity available to, and considerations into these decisions. are integrated into business practices. investments in, carbon-intensive industries. In 2019, the committee reviewed ESG Insuring renewable energy issues associated with higher-risk sectors RSA has a market-leading position as an Our actions in 2019 Decision making for the long term and developed a new Group-wide policy insurer of renewable energy with long-standing position on supporting the transition to a expertise. Renewables currently make up • Launched our new Climate Change We are responding to the expectations of low-carbon economy. 65 per cent of our energy underwriting and Low Carbon Policy position our stakeholders by considering ESG criteria portfolio – well above the global energy mix. covering investments and underwriting in our decision making and our operations. Promoting the transition to As a signatory to the United Nations Principles Our Renewables teams in the UK and of carbon-intensive industries a low-carbon economy for Sustainable Insurance (UN PSI) and a Denmark underwrite renewable energy • Collaborated with industry peers Introducing our Climate Change and projects across the world, providing cover for member of ClimateWise, it’s important that we to develop guidance on ESG issues Low Carbon Policy the construction and operation of wind, solar, make informed decisions about the types of in underwriting With changing weather patterns and more hydro and bioenergy projects. They work risk we choose to underwrite and where we • Developed a Group-level approach invest our premiums. frequent and extreme events increasing the risk closely with manufacturers and developers to assess material ESG concerns and of property damage and disruption to business to advise on how best to reduce risks and prioritise actions operations, the insurance industry has an support claims for upcoming projects. important role to play in understanding and Our global team of experts form a renewable responding to a changing climate. energy ‘centre of excellence’, offering insurance at every stage of a project life cycle. See ‘Building resilience on climate change’ on pages 16 to 18 to find out more about our work on climate resilience. 33 RSA – Confident Futures Corporate Responsibility Report 2019 Introduction Shaping a smarter tomorrow Building stronger relationships Managing the everyday well Governance Responsible underwriting risk, the framework provides guidance and requirements that refer the writing of certain We’re committed to carefully evaluating the risks business or the payment of certain claims We insure more than we underwrite and working with our customers to a more senior level. 100 offshore wind farms to promote sustainable business practices. around the world We screen all transactions to ensure Our Underwriting Policy is aligned to our risk compliance with sanctions. Where human rights As a leading insurance partner for appetite, covering issues such as financial and modern slavery risks are considered to be offshore wind, our Danish business, crime, money laundering and sanctions high for specific countries, our systems provide Codan, continues to support the compliance. We manage social risks by an advisory to underwriters. industry’s development. For example, conducting sanctions screening, credit and we are actively involved in several Know Your Customer checks. Our risk controls teams will assess vulnerability to weather risks Responsible investment offshore windfarms under construction in Taiwan, which will secure clean energy and health and safety, where they undertake We believe a positive approach to ESG issues Collaborating to develop onsite assessments. for more than 200,000 homes. is a good indicator of the quality of a business’s industry guidance Find out how we’re improving the management practices and the likelihood of During 2019, our underwriting teams integrated sustainability of our own operations its long-term success. Our Investment team Working with industry peers, RSA our Climate Change and Low Carbon Policy on pages 34 and 35. considers the ESG policies that external fund supported the UN PSI’s initiative to into our risk appetite and processes to enable managers have in place as part of the appraisal develop the first global guide to manage us to manage our new position effectively from process for onboarding any new managers. ESG risks in underwriting. The guidance 1 January 2020. Our core fund managers are signatories to aims to help commercial insurance An important part of our approach to Next steps the UN Principles for Responsible Investment businesses to integrate environmental responsible underwriting is our high-risk (PRI), demonstrating their ongoing commitment • Continue to improve how we manage and ethical considerations into core country framework. Where a matter is linked to responsible investing. our underwriting and investment business processes and decision making. to a country that RSA deems to be of high exposure to sensitive sectors 9 £% The result of a multi-year PSI initiative, the guidance was released for public • Review how we evaluate potential H  ear from RSA colleague Sarah consultation in 2019. ESG risks in our investment and on our work to launch our new Find out more and access funds managed by signatories to the UN PRI underwriting activities, in accordance Climate Change and Low Carbon the guidance online. Policy position. with UN PSI guidance We also use specialist data sets to review • Work with external fund managers the overall ESG performance of our investment to further understand their processes portfolio and provide more detailed information to consider ESG issues in on specific investments when required. The investment decisions development of our Climate Change and Low Carbon Policy position in 2019 formalised the requirements we give to fund managers who manage investments on our behalf. 34 RSA – Confident Futures Corporate Responsibility Report 2019 Introduction Shaping a smarter tomorrow Building stronger relationships Managing the everyday well Governance Sustainable Setting a new carbon operations reduction target towards 1.5˚C During 2019, we worked with an external consultancy to set a new carbon reduction target: to reduce emissions by 50 per cent Climate change, pollution and pressure on natural resources equipment. Energy use fell by 10 per cent by 2030. This goal – overseen by our ESG compared to our 2016 baseline, representing Committee and approved by our Board, affect our people, our customers and the communities we a reduction of 4.8 million kWh of energy alongside our Climate Change and Low work in. We’re working hard to reduce the impact of our consumption. Our reduction in emissions also reflects the lower carbon intensity of the energy Carbon Policy position – aligns with the science-based target methodology operations by reducing carbon emissions, switching to we used over this period. as far as currently possible, and will renewable energy and using resources more efficiently. be reviewed when the sector-based We have also achieved a 36 per cent reduction approach for financial services is released. in emissions associated with business travel The target takes into account the level of by discouraging air travel and promoting the decarbonisation required to keep global use of more fuel-efficient vehicles. In 2019, Our actions in 2019 Reducing our carbon footprint temperature increase below 1.5˚C. we launched a new business travel policy in • Achieved a 31 per cent reduction Our focus on sustainable operations saw Scandinavia to promote sustainable travel. For the first time, we modelled and in carbon emissions since 2016 and significant progress in 2019. We achieved This contributed to a 35 per cent reduction in analysed all categories of scope 3 10 per cent reduction in energy use a 31 per cent decrease in carbon emissions business travel emissions compared to 2018 emissions defined in the Greenhouse compared to 2016, with reductions across and the avoidance of 6 million kilometres of air Gas Protocol guidance. This helped • Set a new carbon emissions target passenger travel. We will continue to review our us to identify where emissions are all our key regions, and set a new 2030 carbon to achieve a 50 per cent reduction business travel policies to identify opportunities highest and prioritise where we have the reduction target. by 2030 to incentivise low-carbon travel and encourage greatest opportunity to influence third Carbon emissions from our energy use have alternatives such as video conferencing. parties, particularly within our supply • Started a programme to switch decreased by 29 per cent since 2016. This has chain. The emissions from our most to renewable energy at key sites been driven by a focus on reducing the footprint material scope 3 emissions categories – across our operations of our estate and moving to newer, more purchased goods and services, and our efficient buildings as well as retrofitting key investment portfolio – totalled more than properties with LED lighting and more efficient 1 million tonnes CO2e. Although our target currently applies to our direct emissions and emissions from business travel, we will investigate how we can reduce the emissions associated with our wider activities. 35 RSA – Confident Futures Corporate Responsibility Report 2019 Introduction Shaping a smarter tomorrow Building stronger relationships Managing the everyday well Governance Carbon emissions by scope in 2019 Reducing waste and using resources more efficiently As part of this assessment, we’ve taken opportunities to improve our reporting methods to demonstrate our commitment to reporting 31% We have been taking significant steps to reduction in carbon emissions since 2016 transparently on climate-related issues: reduce waste, by removing single-use plastics 24% Scope 1: 17% from our global operations and reducing paper • We have started to adopt the Scope 2: 38% use by 35 per cent since 2016. recommendations of the Taskforce on Scope 3: 45% Climate-related Financial Disclosures Our ongoing ‘print responsibly’ campaign of energy from certified renewable sources (TCFD) in our Annual Report and Accounts in Canada drives action by encouraging 3 % (see pages 47–49) employees to pledge to reduce their paper use through a data-driven competition. • We report to external organisations, As we continue to move to more paperless including ClimateWise and scored a B Switching to renewable energy reduction in waste since 2016 processes, our IT team have reduced the in CDP, demonstrating our commitment To reduce our carbon footprint, we have set printing devices at major offices, reducing to reporting transparently on climatea Group-wide target to source 100 per cent future paper use and toner waste. PaperCut related issues renewable electricity for our estate by 2025. software has been installed on the remaining Hear from RSA colleague Francesca on Next steps We are already switching to Renewable devices to track paper consumption and the actions we’re taking to improve the Energy Guarantees of Origin (REGO)-backed CO2 production. sustainability of our offices. • Engage landlords for leased renewable energy sources where we directly properties to transition to renewable In Scandinavia, our Swedish branch has energy supplies control procurement, which will avoid an ambitious plan to reduce the number 1,700 tonnes of carbon per year. We are also • Continue to improve the energy of printed policies and documents sent to actively engaging with landlords to enable efficiency of our property portfolio with customers by encouraging them to move to the transition to renewable energy across the planned moves to new facilities digital communications. In 2019, the number remainder of our estate. Around 24 per cent of customers opting to receive their insurance • Work with colleagues to further of the energy we used came from certified policies online increased by 17 per cent and reduce emissions from business travel renewable sources by the end of 2019. paper use reduced by 25 per cent. through online meetings and fewer flights Find out how we’re supporting the transition to a low-carbon economy by underwriting renewable energy Managing environmental impacts projects on pages 32 and 33. Our actions to reduce our environmental Greenhouse gas emissions 2016–2019 (tCO2e) impact are governed by our Group 2019 3,096 7,202 8,551 18,849 Environmental Policy. In 2019, we conducted a gap analysis to ensure its requirements are 2018 2,673 8,665 10,938 22,276 understood and implemented correctly across 2017 3,019 9,687 12,294 25,000 the business. 2016 2,807 11,243 13,538 27,588 Scope 1 Scope 2 Scope 3 Carbon emissions independently assured by PwC; you can read the Assurance Opinion here. 36 RSA – Confident Futures Corporate Responsibility Report 2019 Introduction Shaping a smarter tomorrow Building stronger relationships Managing the everyday well Governance Responsible supply chain As a responsible business, we consider the impact of Our Third Party Contracts Policy sets out the Improving supplier management controls we have in place for our procurement our activities beyond our own operations. We monitor processes and the conduct we expect from During 2019, we implemented a programme to improve third-party management across our and manage the environmental and social impacts of our our partners. This includes supplier selection, risk assessments, contracting and ongoing UK and Irish businesses. This more effective supply chain and work collaboratively with our suppliers management. This is supplemented by our risk-based approach will help us to assess the risks associated with a service or product, rate publicly available Supplier Code of Conduct, and partners to share best practice. which outlines our expectations on key issues suppliers’ management practices and enable high-risk suppliers to be referred for further such as environment, ethics and community scrutiny by subject matter experts. We also investment. The code is incorporated into new adopted a new supplier management platform, contracts and agreements as well as our due Our actions in 2019 Managing our supply chain through which we have assessed 80 per cent diligence system. of our suppliers against ESG issues, including • Increased supplier engagement Social and environmental issues are During selection, we conduct checks on the their environmental policies, data protection on corporate responsibility topics considered during purchasing decisions, policies and management practices of suppliers and human rights. across our property, motor and legal and we aim to use our buying power to effect on issues including information security and supply chains positive change. We choose to work with data protection, anti-bribery and corruption, In 2020, we will work with our regional markets partners that hold the same high standards customer treatment, labour practices, human to establish how the lessons from this work • Reviewed and updated our third-party as RSA, deliver high‑quality products and rights and environmental management. can be adopted across the business. supplier management process in the services, and respect the communities UK to adopt a risk-based approach We also engage with our suppliers throughout 8 % and environment in which they operate. • Screened 80 per cent of our UK the year. During 2019, our supply chain suppliers through our new supplier managers in the UK and Sweden liaised due diligence system directly with larger suppliers to better understand how they integrate sustainability into their operations. In the UK, the Corporate Responsibility team presented the Confident of UK suppliers assessed on Futures strategy to more than 70 key suppliers environmental and social issues at our annual supply chain conference. 37 RSA – Confident Futures Corporate Responsibility Report 2019 Introduction Shaping a smarter tomorrow Building stronger relationships Managing the everyday well Governance “ Delivering sustainable claims Raising awareness of modern solutions for our customers slavery and human trafficking Sustainable windscreen claims We encourage a ‘repair over replace’ As an insurance company, our exposure philosophy and work hard to deliver Around 70 per cent of windscreen chips to modern slavery and human trafficking is It’s really important that sustainable claims solutions for our customers. This has been particularly successful with turn into more problematic cracks within a month. By encouraging customers to limited, but risks are present in parts of our motor and building supply chains. Our direct we continue working motor claims in our UK and Scandinavian repair chipped windscreens promptly, and indirect procurement teams in the UK with our supply chain operations, where we incentivise repairers to fix parts rather than replace them wherever we’re promoting sustainable claims. Our Scandinavian and UK businesses completed a one-day, face-to-face training course focused on the potential exposure to deliver sustainable possible. In the UK, we carried out a repair work with suppliers to inform customers to modern slavery across our supply chain claims solutions for our for every 3.8 parts replaced, compared to an industry average of 6.4. about the environmental and cost savings associated with windscreen chip repairs. and how to identify key signs. customers that not only In 2019, analysis of our scope 3 emissions (see Repairing a chip takes 30 minutes, Working with social enterprises deliver great service but ‘Sustainable operations’ on page 34) identified compared with the time taken to order and replace a windscreen, and it’s also During 2019, our UK business began working also minimise the impact motor manufacturing and repair as one of the most emissions-intensive parts of our supply more cost-effective and resource efficient. with several social enterprises that maximise on the environment.” positive social and environmental impact. chain. Repairing rather than replacing parts For example, to support our efforts to phase Mark Baker, Head of UK Claims In 2019, 40,000 chip repairs brings environmental benefits such as reduced out single-use plastics, we commissioned the Supply Chain, RSA produced the following benefits: demand for raw materials, fewer products Commercial Foundation to provide branded 1,500 being shipped from overseas and less waste. ceramic mugs for our offices. The social enterprise helps young people from challenging Find out how RSA colleague Andy works Next steps with suppliers to find solutions that benefit backgrounds to find long-term employment our customers and the environment. tonnes of carbon and build their confidence. By working in this • Review and update our Third Party emissions avoided way, we’ve generated £117,000 of additional Contracts Policy in line with evolving social value, with 86 per cent of the young expectations 540 people the foundation employs going on to • Work to embed ESG issues into secure work or further training. our supply chain performance tonnes of glass waste management process kept out of landfill • Understand our suppliers’ carbon emissions targets and commitments £13.7m to adopt more sustainable practices cost saving from avoiding windscreen replacements 38 RSA – Confident Futures Corporate Responsibility Report 2019 Introduction Shaping a smarter tomorrow Building stronger relationships Managing the everyday well Governance Customer privacy and data security In the modern world, our reliance on data is growing In 2019, we conducted an advanced cyber Continuous improvement security penetration testing exercise in Our expert information security, data protection exponentially. That’s why it’s essential that our customers conjunction with the UK regulator, to evaluate and compliance teams protect and support trust our people and our systems to protect their privacy our defences and enable us to continuously improve our ability to detect and respond to our business, managing policies and controls, assessing risks and restricting inappropriate and keep their information safe from misuse. emerging threats. access to information. The responsibilities of the Chief Information Security Officer in Employee training each region are overseen by our Group Chief Empowering our colleagues to take the Information Officer, who ultimately reports to Our actions in 2019 Mitigating data security threats steps required to protect our organisation is our Group Executive Committee. key. We provide comprehensive resources • Invested in a multi-year cyber Our systems and processes and guidance on customer privacy and data This year, we have further strengthened our resilience programme to improve Guided by policies and procedures covering security via our intranet. We regularly engage internal capability in core regions by continuing security capability information security, cyber security and data with colleagues so they’re aware of threats and to engage cyber security specialists and protection, we make sure information is know how to report anything that makes them introduce new or enhanced capabilities in line • Tested our information security collected, stored and used responsibly. suspicious. This includes carrying out regular with their recommendations. The onboarding defences to assess and improve Our data-related policies sit within our Groupphishing campaigns to check our management of new tools and processes within our security our ability to detect and respond wide risk and compliance structure. They procedures are robust. operations function has also improved the to real-world threats are reviewed annually and regularly audited. visibility that we have over our IT infrastructure Everyone at RSA completes annual mandatory • Undertook a simulated training and ability to protect information. We use controls such as firewalls, intrusion training on cyber security, data protection exercise to test our response to detection systems and other security and information security, which provides a cyber-related incident technologies to help defend our systems from practical advice on how to protect data while attack, regularly reviewing and refreshing them highlighting that the misuse of data by an to address new and emerging threats. Through employee could result in disciplinary action. our cyber resilience programme, we adopt a risk-based approach and have a multi-year commitment to investing in technical and process controls to build resilience. 39 RSA – Confident Futures Corporate Responsibility Report 2019 Introduction Shaping a smarter tomorrow Building stronger relationships Managing the everyday well Governance Respecting customer privacy Cyber risk insurance Cyber security awareness Respecting our customers’ privacy is essential Cyber risks are a serious and growing to maintaining their trust in our business. threat to all types and sizes of business, In 2019, we raised awareness of cyber Our approach covers how we collect, use and but traditional policies will only cover some security across our business. The manage our customers’ personal data to make of the potential impacts. That’s why we have Information Security team in Canada sure we respect the confidentiality of sensitive developed cyber‑specific insurance products, used Cyber Security Awareness Month in information and any choices customers have which provide cover for a range of possible October as an opportunity to share cyber made regarding the use of their data. The losses, including significant cyber response security tips on Yammer, our internal Group Executive Committee oversees the costs related to notification, IT forensics, social media site. implementation of our privacy policies, while credit monitoring and identity theft. day-to-day responsibility for customer privacy Our UK team ran a Cybersmart campaign, sits with regional management teams. Cyber security protection using a roadshow to advise colleagues in our offices on how to stay safe online Next steps at home and at work. We also conducted Minimising risk from third parties Today’s organisations have a critical • Continue to improve our systems a training exercise with key stakeholders Beyond our own organisation, we rely on our reliance on information technology to and training on continually evolving that focused on our ability to respond to suppliers’ and partners’ systems for protecting conduct their business. Every aspect of privacy and security threats and recover from a cyber-related incident. data and customer privacy. We assess their our lives is increasingly affected by the In Norway, 220 colleagues participated approach through our information security and generation, transfer, storage and analysis • Embed the use of a Third Party in awareness sessions about General data protection due diligence questionnaires of data, and the infrastructure that Contracts Policy to assess and Data Protection Regulation (GDPR) and and use privacy impact assessments to supports it. manage the risks associated with incident management. identify whether additional actions are required. organisations we work with Our Cyber Protection insurance covers Hear from RSA colleague Phoebe This includes identifying high-risk third parties the typical costs associated with a • Continue the delivery of our cyber on our UK cyber security awareness so they can be effectively managed. Privacy, cyber event and, in partnership with resilience programmes and culture campaign. data retention and removal clauses are Crawford, provides 24/7 incident included in all relevant third-party contracts response capability to support an involving the transfer of personal information. organisation’s own crisis management. Our policies provide cover options including network security, regulatory costs and penalties, cyber business interruption, cyber extortion, payment diversion fraud, breach response, communication advice and crisis management support. 40 RSA – Confident Futures Corporate Responsibility Report 2019 Introduction Shaping a smarter tomorrow Building stronger relationships Managing the everyday well Governance Business integrity Running an ethical business is fundamental to how Everyone at RSA completes relevant training • Conflicts of Interest, Gifts and Hospitality modules through Horizon, our online learning Policy: Covers actual or potential conflicts we operate. We’re committed to preventing bribery management system. In 2019, we launched of interest, the standards we expect and and corruption, tackling fraud, responding to human a new Conduct Rules e-learning module to ensure all employees understand the new rules procedures for recording and escalation • Broker Remuneration Policy: Outlines rights risks and being transparent about the tax we pay. introduced by the Financial Conduct Authority expectations that commission and and the Prudential Regulation Authority. other payments are commensurate In 2019, our Group Risk team led an overhaul with the services provided and subject Our actions in 2019 Business conduct of Group business control policies. We updated to appropriate approvals most of our policies using new templates • Third Party Contracts Policy: Provides • Conducted gap analyses to ensure Our policies and processes are critical to and provided clearer controls to ensure their guidance on engaging with key suppliers effective local implementation upholding high standards across our business. requirements are monitored and reviewed. and third parties to ensure that bribery of Group policies They set out our expectations of employees on Ultimate responsibility for complying with local or corruption are not used to gain an topics including handling customer information legal and regulatory requirements rests with the • Trained all UK-based employees unfair advantage (see ‘Customer privacy and data security’ on Executive teams in each region. on Conduct Rules pages 38 and 39), conflicts of interest and • Whistleblowing Policy: Covers safe and • Reviewed and updated our anti-money laundering. Anti-bribery and corruption anonymous ways to report malpractice Group-wide Human Rights Policy without fear of repercussions Bribery and corruption are not tolerated anywhere in our business. Our position is Employees in higher-risk roles receive additional clear: we never offer or receive bribes or training and are subject to vetting for financial corrupt payments. Our robust Anti-Bribery probity and criminality. In addition, all regional and Corruption Policy outlines the controls businesses and functions complete an antiin place to mitigate the risks and to comply bribery and corruption risk assessment annually. with applicable regulation. Our approach is supported by additional policies that help us to prevent wrongdoing, including the following: 41 RSA – Confident Futures Corporate Responsibility Report 2019 Introduction Shaping a smarter tomorrow Building stronger relationships Managing the everyday well Governance Whistleblowing We have high ethical standards and clear Supporting industry expectations around the behaviour of our fraud initiatives people. However, when things go wrong, it’s We actively participate in cross-industry important that our employees are aware of our initiatives, including the Insurance Whistleblowing Policy and know how to raise Fraud Bureau (IFB), Insurance Fraud a concern so that corrective action can be Register and the Police Insurance taken quickly. Fraud Enforcement Department, to share data and intelligence, and to Preventing fraud support enforcement agencies to bring Every day, we work with prevention agencies, fraudsters to justice. In 2019, our UK the police and other insurers to detect and and International Chief Claims Officer prevent fraud, protecting our customers and became Chair of the IFB, which leads our business. the insurance industry’s collective efforts against insurance fraud. We have specialist teams dedicated to preventing, detecting and investigating Find out more from RSA colleague application and claims fraud across our Adele on her work to combat insurance fraud. business. This includes our Counter Fraud Unit in the UK, which combines fraud detection technology with the skills of Raising concerns through Ethicspoint experienced intelligence analysts, claims handlers and investigators. Our whistleblowing site, Ethicspoint, provides colleagues, contractors, suppliers and other external partners with a secure and confidential way to report potential wrongdoing. When a whistleblower raises a concern, the business takes measures to protect their identity, maintain confidentiality and safeguard against consequences or recriminations. All permanent, temporary and contractual employees, directors and non-executive directors are required to complete our mandatory whistleblowing e-learning module. 42 RSA – Confident Futures Corporate Responsibility Report 2019 Introduction Shaping a smarter tomorrow Building stronger relationships Managing the everyday well Governance Human rights Business continuity planning and modern slavery Our Business Continuity Management We are committed to respecting and protecting programme proactively improves our internationally accepted human rights, and to resilience and ability to respond to disruption. fair and equal treatment for all, as outlined in Business continuity plans are in place across our Group-wide Human Rights Policy. our offices, and a hotline for reporting incidents is always available. We regularly During 2019, we refreshed the policy to undertake training to ensure preparedness, ensure appropriate actions and due diligence including crisis communications and incident processes are in place to prevent any response exercises. breaches of our standards. These focus on underwriting, procurement and human resources, as well as making employees aware of the principles and monitoring the effectiveness of our responses. Our procurement teams undertook modern slavery training, and we are exploring opportunities to extend this training to our regional operations. In accordance with the UK Modern Slavery Act 2015, we publish an annual modern Tax transparency slavery statement detailing the steps taken to check that slavery and human As an employer and taxpayer, we support the economies of the countries where we operate trafficking are not taking place in our and manage our tax affairs responsibly. Our Annual Tax Transparency Report sets out how business or our supply chains. we manage tax, including governance, planning, risk management and total tax contribution. Next steps • Update our ‘Guide to business conduct’ and relaunch it to colleagues across the business • Continue the ongoing implementation, review and validation of our policies and controls so that we maintain the highest ethical standards 43 RSA – Confident Futures Corporate Responsibility Report 2019 Introduction Shaping a smarter tomorrow Building stronger relationships Managing the everyday well Governance Governance We have clear structures and controls in place to ensure Our CR governance structure Our supporting policies our corporate responsibility (CR) strategy, Confident Our Group CR Committee oversees the Our governance structure is underpinned by implementation of Confident Futures, including policies covering environment, human rights, Futures, is embedded in our operations and decision the responsibility for setting targets, action community investment, anti-bribery and making. Our governance model is underpinned by robust plans and tracking our impact, and ensures appropriate governance and oversight of CR corruption, conflicts of interest, whistleblowing, customer, third-party contracts and employment policies, standards and management systems. across our regions. The committee is made up practices. These are reviewed annually and set of senior representatives from each of our core the framework for our operations. markets, as well as subject matter experts to Our policies, which apply to all operating Our corporate responsibility governance model provide support on priority areas. countries and subsidiaries, help us to manage The following report regularly to the Group our operational, regulatory and reputational CR Committee: risks. Each policy has regional owners who ensure local implementation across our RSA Group Board • The ESG Committee, which focuses on ESG business, and employees are required to issues within investment and underwriting, complete annual training modules to ensure as well as monitoring the implementation of they are aware of their responsibilities. our Environmental Policy and setting targets Group CR Committee Our environment, human rights • The Group-wide Smarter Tomorrow and community investment policies Chair: Scott Egan, CEO, UK & International Working Group, which provides strategic can be found online. focus to how we build risk education and behaviour change into our products, partnerships and campaigns Smarter Tomorrow ESG Committee Working Group The Group CR Committee is supported by the Chair: William McDonnell, Chair: Kenny Leitch, Group CR team and local CR leads, who work Group Chief Risk Officer Director of Product and Pricing with colleagues to monitor action plans and measure progress. Group CR team and local CR leads RSA Insurance Group 20 Fenchurch Street London EC3M 3AU United Kingdom Get in touch: corporate.responsibility@gcc.rsagroup.com @rsainsurance linkedin.com/company/rsa @rsagroup youtube.com/user/rsainsurance www.rsagroup.com
