Sustainability Report 2019 Based on GRI Standards Table of contents Driving change in communities Driving change that matters 98 Overview 3 Chairman’s statement 100 Progress against 2020 target 5 Sustainability at UBS 102 Impacting organizations in 2019 Our strategy, business model and environment 102 2025 goal (Extracts from the UBS Annual Report 2019 supported by additional information for GRI purposes) Our sustainability track record Our strategy 103 Our sustainability track record 7 8 Our sustainability strategy Assurance and certification 9 Performance targets and measurement 105 Independent assurance report by EY 9 Sustainability objectives 107 ISO 14001 and 50001 certificates 10 Our businesses 111 ISO 37001 certificate 21 Our environment 25 How we create value for our stakeholders Appendix 1 – Governance and policies 29 Clients (additional information) 112 Charter of the Corporate Culture and Responsibility 34 Shareholders and investors (additional information) Committee 38 Employees (additional information) 113 Our Code of Conduct and Ethics 49 Stakeholder relations (additional information) 117 UBS in society constitutional document 120 Environment and social risk policy framework Our governance and principles 127 Health and safety statement 51 Sustainability governance 51 Key policies and guidelines Appendix 2 – Additional information for GRI 54 Our climate strategy 128 UBS in society management indicators 64 Sustainability-related training and raising awareness 129 Information for management approaches for material 64 Sustainable performance and compensation topics 131 Impact of material GRI topics Materiality under GRI Standards 132 Calculating and reporting on climate change-related 66 GRI-based materiality assessment financing and advisory activities 67 Material GRI topics 2019 133 Direct economic value generated and distributed by UBS Group AG consolidated in 2019 Driving change in finance 134 Financial literacy 70 Sustainable investing 72 Key sustainable investing products and services in 2019 Appendix 3 – Sustainability objectives and achievements 135 UBS sustainability objectives and achievements 2019 and Driving change in philanthropy sustainability objectives 2020 75 UBS Philanthropy Appendix 4 – Global Reporting Initiative content index Driving change in business 143 Global Reporting Initiative Content Index 2019 76 Advancing sustainability in the financial sector – UBS’s key activities in 2019 Appendix 5 – Sustainability Accounting Standards Board 78 Environment and human rights index 79 Management of environmental and social risks 161 Sustainability Accounting Standards Board Index 2019 82 In-house environmental management Appendix 6 – EU Non-financial disclosures index 93 Responsible supply chain management 165 Risk evaluation 94 Combating financial crime 166 Non-financial disclosures in accordance with German law 95 Ratings and recognitions implementing the EU directive 2014/95 97 External commitments and memberships 1 UBS Group AG consolidated About this Sustainability Report Contacts We strive to report openly and transparently about our firm’s UBS Corporate Responsibility Management sustainability approach and activities, consistently applying our The Corporate Responsibility team manages UBS’s sustainability firm's information policy and disclosure principles. The core disclosure and also acts as information provider for medium for our sustainability disclosure is this Sustainability sustainability-related enquiries. Report 2019, supplemented – as referenced in the GRI Content Index – by other relevant information, which can be found in the cr@ubs.com UBS Annual Report 2019. We have included the following sections from the UBS Annual Report 2019 at the beginning of this document: – Our strategy – Performance targets and measurement – Our businesses – Our environment – How we create value for our stakeholders Except where clearly identified, all of UBS’s sustainability information included in this Sustainability Report is presented for UBS Group AG and all its subsidiaries. Information on our consolidated subsidiaries can be found in Note 31 “Interests in subsidiaries and other entities” in our Annual Report 2019. UBS AG consolidated information does not differ in any material respect from UBS Group AG’s consolidated information. We use the Global Reporting Initiative (GRI) as the basis for our sustainability reporting and apply a careful process weighing up the materiality and relevance of the information reported and the expectations of all our stakeholders. This document also includes our group’s disclosures of nonfinancial information required by Germany’s implementation law of EU directive 2014/95 (CSR-Richtlinie-Umsetzungsgesetz / CSRRUG) (nichtfinanzieller Konzernbericht). A table at the end of this document (page 166) provides the references to such nonfinancial information. This Sustainability Report has been reviewed by Ernst & Young Ltd (EY) against the GRI Standards (limited assurance). The content has been prepared in accordance with the GRI Standards, Comprehensive option, as evidenced in the EY assurance report. Both, the GRI content index and the assurance report, have been included in this document and can also be downloaded from www.ubs.com/gri. 5 March 2020 UBS Group AG and UBS AG Terms used in this report, unless the context requires otherwise “UBS,” “UBS Group,” “UBS Group AG consolidated,” UBS Group AG and its consolidated subsidiaries “Group,” “the Group,” “we,” “us” and “our” “UBS Group AG” and “UBS Group AG standalone” UBS Group AG on a standalone basis 2 Driving change that matters . Chairman’s statement At UBS, we are convinced that this momentum will continue to accelerate during the coming years. Continually growing interest In this statement, UBS Chairman and Corporate Culture and by our clients in sustainable finance solutions is evidenced in Responsibility Committee Chairman Axel A. Weber provides his major surveys that we conducted among our private and views on UBS’s long-term value creation institutional clients, as well as in our biannual stakeholder survey. I also experience it in my regular, personal interactions In 2019, we again demonstrated our commitment to advancing with clients across all of our firm's businesses and regions. sustainability in our firm, for and with our clients, and in our industry. We are proud of what our firm has achieved during the As we move into the 2020s, we will further expand our firm's course of last year – and of our ambitious plans going forward. sustainability efforts, shaping them in particular around three interconnected frameworks: the United Nations Sustainable The Corporate Culture and Responsibility Committee (CCRC) Development Goals (SDGs); the recommendations of the regularly monitors our firm's sustainability activities and Financial Stability Board's Task Force on Climate-related Financial ambitions and approves its strategy and goals. In 2019, we Disclosures (TCFD); and the UN-backed Principles for Responsible witnessed an accelerated momentum in our UBS in society Banking (PRB). program as well as in our sustainable finance activities. A key indicator is the development of our Core SI (sustainable We were among the very first banks that shone a light on the investing) assets under management where we managed to importance of the SDGs – and specifically on what it takes to more than double penetration from 5.6% of total invested make them investable for clients, recognizing the major assets in 2017 to 13.5% in 2019 – and thus reached the goal investment gap associated with their achievement with we set ourselves then one year earlier than planned. estimates ranging from USD 2 trillion to as high as USD 7 trillion annually. This gap needs to be closed if the world wants to Highlights presented to the CCRC included the further successfully tackle the enormous societal and environmental strengthening of our firm's sustainability strategy. Notable challenges expressed through the SDGs. We are keen to help examples include the integration of sustainability topics in our develop solutions in this regard, building on our successful and employee lifecycle activities – with the explicit ambition (included sometimes pioneering work aimed at mobilizing private and in our UBS in society constitutional document) of being an institutional capital towards the Goals. employer of choice, as well as the expansion of sustainable finance activities across our firm. 3 Secondly, the TCFD's recommendations, focusing on the risks This Sustainability Report provides comprehensive information associated with climate change, try to help address in particular on all of the aforementioned commitments and activities – and information gaps that prevent investors from properly assessing more. I invite you to read it, in particular as it demonstrates how related financial risks for their portfolios and thus to direct our employees contribute to UBS's sustainable performance. capital flows to more sustainable uses. Following the launch of these recommendations in 2017, we have continuously UBS’s commitment to the UN Global Compact improved and expanded our climate-related disclosures to UBS was among the 43 companies that first signed the UN demonstrate our active engagement for an orderly transition to Global Compact upon its launch in 2000 and is committed to its a low-carbon economy. A key component of our comprehensive principles on human rights, labor standards, the environment climate strategy is to offer innovative products and services in and anti-corruption. We are also a member of the UN Global the areas of investments, financing and research as well as to Compact Network Switzerland. As reflected in detail in this encourage more transparency by companies. At the same time, document, we have a comprehensive set of commitments and we are working on further restricting assets that are associated activities in place pertaining to the principles of the UN Global with climate-related risks. We continue to be successful on both Compact. fronts, increasing our climate-related SI by 23% to USD 108 billion from 2018 to 2019 while reducing our carbonrelated assets from USD 3.2 billion to USD 1.9 billion. Finally, in 2019 we became a founding signatory of the PRB, a framework that is meant to support banks in integrating society's goals into their business strategy – and that incorporates both the SDGs and the Paris Agreement on Climate Change. For the PRB's four-year implementation period, we Axel A. Weber have committed to set, publish and work towards ambitious Chairman of the Board of Directors targets. This commitment reinforces our long-standing focus on maximizing positive effects through our sustainable business activities and on minimizing negative impacts, notably through our management of environmental and social risks. 4 Sustainability at UBS In 2019 we highlighted the need for people to become more aware of the SDGs; for sustainability to be easier understood; Our concept of sustainability is guided by the United Nations and for more solutions that enable the public to make a real (UN) Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs), which bring contribution to people and planet. We outlined eight potential together the enormous societal and environmental challenges solutions on how to improve the sustainable investing, giving, the world faces. We recognize that it is important to understand and consumption ecosystems to mobilize greater support for these challenges as well as the opportunities arising from them, tackling world's most urgent challenges. to consider their relevance to UBS and to identify potential In 2020 we again published a white paper on the occasion of actions our firm may need to take. the WEF Annual Meeting, focusing on SDG 13, Climate action, and on ways in which investors can align their investments Our commitment to the SDGs towards a climate-smart future. As a founding signatory of the UN-backed Principles for Through the #TOGETHERBAND campaign, which we Responsible Banking, UBS has committed to aligning our launched jointly with BOTTLETOP in 2019, we raise public business strategy to be consistent with and contribute to awareness and inspire action to achieve the SDGs. The campaign society’s goals. By doing so, we pledged to strategically align our is supported by a group of high-profile ambassadors and experts business with the SDGs and the Paris Agreement on Climate with a strong commitment to sustainability. Change.  Refer to www.ubs.com/wef-2020 for more information about our white paper What are the SDGs?  Refer to www.ubs.com/togetherband for more details about The 17 SDGs provide a global roadmap to address the campaign environmental, economic, and social imbalances that affect the world’s population and its institutions. Such sustainability aims What do we do? are relevant to everyone. The SDGs were agreed upon by 193 At UBS we see a strong business rationale for catering to the states in 2015 and officially launched by the UN on 1 January growing importance of and demand for sustainability – as 2016. embodied by the SDGs. We are committed to play a leading role in providing both finance and expertise to meet these ambitious How do they pertain to UBS? global goals. As the largest truly global wealth manager to high We were among the very first banks that shone a light on the net worth and ultra high net worth clients, we regard it as importance of the SDGs. Already in 2015, before their official particularly critical to help private wealth contribute to fund the launch, we published a paper on what it takes to make the development of a more sustainable world. SDGs investable for clients. Our focus has continued to be on UBS has touchpoints to the SDGs across the entire firm. With investability as this is consistent with a key message that a business model covering retail, private and institutional clients accompanied the launch of the SDGs – the recognition of a we have links to every single SDG through one or more of our major investment gap (with estimates ranging from USD 2 firm’s activities. Some of the key examples include the UBS trillion to as high as USD 7 trillion annually) that will need to be Optimus Foundation’s support for The Power of Nutrition closed if the world was to achieve the Goals by 2030. foundation (SDG 2), the UBS Oncology Impact Fund (SDG 3), We have refined our analysis of and commitments to the and the Gender Equality ETF (SDG 5). SDGs ever since, not least in four successive white papers for the We believe, however, that five SDGs (4, 8, 12, 13, 17), as per World Economic Forum (WEF) Annual Meeting. In our 2017 the table below, are of particular pertinence to our firm. In white paper we set out commitments to sustainable and impact particular due to our strategy and business model and (business) investing, which we executed on by working with other focus areas it is with these five that we see the most material institutions to create innovative solutions that can help private impacts across our value chain – notably by helping to advance and institutional clients achieve their financial and societal positive developments through sustainable finance & investing objectives. and ESG expertise as well as minimizing negative impacts We have also executed on our 2018 white paper through the management of environmental and social risks. commitments to partnership for the Goals, by working more We have captured these five SDGs, our rationale for each one closely with multilateral development banks, through our and key focus areas pertaining to each of them in the graph on partnership with the World Bank, to offer development bank the following page. Over the coming years, we will continue to bond solutions for private clients; by collaborating to fill gaps in refine our analysis of our firm’s links to the SDGs – in order to the sustainable investing landscape with innovative new better understand and depict positive and negative impacts solutions; and by acknowledging the demand and impact of across our value chain and to set objectives accordingly. collaborative philanthropy. 5 Sustainable Development Goals in our focus 6 Our strategy We aim to drive higher and superior returns by growing and performance and scale. We plan to build on our strengths in leveraging our unique, integrated and complementary business fast-growing areas of the industry, such as sustainable investing, portfolio and geographic footprint. private markets and alternatives. UBS is the largest truly global wealth manager and a leading Priority IV Personal & Corporate Banking aims to deliver personal and corporate bank in Switzerland, with focused steady profit growth by enhancing its digital initiatives and investment bank and asset management divisions. We services, while improving efficiency. By expanding our leading concentrate on capital-efficient businesses in our targeted position in digital services in Switzerland, along with broadening markets, where we have a strong competitive position and an our advisory solutions and product offering, we expect to attractive long-term growth or profitability outlook. We view increase profits despite the current negative interest rate capital strength as the foundation of our strategy. environment. In delivering all of UBS as one firm to our clients, we intend Priority V We want to deliver more as one firm to our clients. to: strengthen our leading client franchises and grow share; The collaboration between our business divisions is critical to the position UBS for growth by expanding our services and success of our strategy and is a source of competitive advantage. capabilities; drive greater efficiencies and scale; and further This collaboration also provides further revenue growth potential intensify collaboration for the benefit of our clients. and enables us to better meet client needs; for example, in the ultra high net worth and Global Family Office space. Driving increasing returns Another area where collaboration between our business divisions can bring more value to clients is in sustainable finance. We manage UBS for the long term, focusing on sustainable As the largest truly global wealth manager, we have a profit growth and responsible resource deployment. We aim to responsibility to take a leading role in shaping a positive future, balance growth opportunities with cost and capital efficiency in and our goal is to be the financial provider of choice for clients order to drive attractive risk-adjusted returns and sustainable who wish to mobilize capital toward the achievement of specific performance. environmental or social outcomes. We are shaping the For the years 2020–2022, we have seven strategic priorities, landscape of sustainable finance by using thought leadership, which are outlined below. innovation and partnerships to support clients in their Priority I We aim to increase profit before tax in our Global sustainability efforts. Wealth Management business by 10–15% and drive higher pre Refer to “Society” and “Our focus on ESG” in the “How we tax margins by elevating our leading franchise. We are adjusting create value for our stakeholders” section of this report for our coverage across the client spectrum to deliver more tailored more information about our engagement and leadership in services and solutions. We are reorganizing ourselves to be sustainability matters closer to clients, in order to increase time spent with them, empowering regions, improving our responsiveness and speed Priority VI We aim to drive improvements in firm-wide to market, as well as delivering on all of the firm’s capabilities efficiency to fund growth and enhance returns. We believe through expanded strategic partnerships with the Investment continued optimization of processes, platforms, our organization Bank and Asset Management. Furthermore, we are expanding and capital resources will help us to achieve this. our product offering while becoming more efficient, leveraging We will continue to invest in technology with the goal of scale through partnerships and optimizing processes to increase improving efficiency and effectiveness, driving growth and productivity. better serving our clients. Priority II In our Investment Bank, we intend to improve We also intend to realize the benefits of existing external returns by driving profitable growth, by further optimizing partnerships and to explore selected new opportunities. resources and through collaboration. We will maintain our Priority VII We plan to maintain an attractive capital return capital-light business model that is focused on advice and profile through dividends and share repurchases. Our capital execution and leverages our digital capabilities. Together with strength and capital-accretive business model allows us to grow our other business divisions and through external partnerships, our business while delivering attractive capital returns to our we aim to deliver market-leading digital, research and banking shareholders. capabilities to our clients, while consuming up to one-third of We aim to increase our ordinary dividend per share by Group resources. USD 0.01 each year, and to return excess capital through share Priority III In Asset Management, we intend to capitalize on repurchases. We consider business conditions and any our differentiated client offering for further growth, idiosyncratic developments when determining excess capital available for share repurchases. 7 Our strategy, business model and environment (section from the UBS 2019 Annual Report) Our strategy Our sustainability strategy philanthropic works. And it is through the management of environmental and social risks, the management of our Our firm's sustainability strategy is guided by our goal to be the environmental footprint and our sustainability disclosure that we financial provider of choice for clients wishing to mobilize capital continue to set standards in our industry. towards the achievement of the SDGs and the orderly transition  Refer to the UBS in society constitutional document in the to a low-carbon economy. We work towards this goal by Appendix 1 for more information about our sustainability integrating sustainability into our mainstream offerings, through strategy new and innovative financial products with a positive effect on  Refer to ”Society” in this section for more information about the environment and society, and by advising clients on their our sustainability strategy 8 Performance targets and measurement Targets and capital guidance 2020, we will no longer disclose adjusted results in our financial reports. We will continue to provide disclosure of restructuring In January 2020, we updated and simplified our performance and litigation expenses as well as other material profit or loss target framework. We reduced the number of targets to items that management believes are not representative of concentrate primarily on the Group rather than our business underlying business performance in our management’s divisions, underlining our focus on cross-divisional collaboration. discussion and analysis. Our targets are underpinned by the latest three-year strategic Performance against targets is taken into account when plan, which reflects our strategic initiatives, management determining variable compensation. actions, as well as certain economic and market assumptions.  Refer to “Performance and compensation at a glance” in the The return and efficiency targets have been revised to reflect “Compensation” section of this report for more information changes in the market outlook since the previously about variable compensation communicated targets were set in October 2018.  Refer to “Alternative performance measures” in the appendix The table below shows the performance targets and capital to this report for definitions of and further information about guidance for the 2020–2022 period. Our updated performance our performance measures targets are based on reported results. From the first quarter of Targets and capital guidance 2020–2022 (on a reported basis) Group 12–15% return on CET1 capital (RoCET1) returns Cost Positive operating leverage and 75–78% cost / income ratio efficiency Growth 10–15% profit before tax growth in Global Wealth Management Capital Up to 1⁄3 of Group RWA and LRD in the Investment Bank allocation Capital ~13% CET1 capital ratio guidance ~3.7% CET1 leverage ratio Sustainability objectives In addition, our firm's sustainability aims, i.e., beyond the 2020 time horizon, reflect our focus on the midto long-term. We have set strong overarching ambitions that guide our  Refer to “Society” in this section for more information about sustainability performance. We are transparent about our aims our sustainability aims and key goals and progress wherever possible to demonstrate our  Refer to the Appendix 3 for our sustainability objectives and commitment. We set annual sustainability goals, which are achievements 2019 and sustainability objectives 2020 reflected in the comprehensive set of GRI objectives included in this document. 9 Our strategy, business model and environment (section from the UBS 2019 Annual Report) Our businesses Our businesses Working in partnership We operate through four business divisions – Global Wealth comprehensive and better solutions through, for example, the Management, Personal & Corporate Banking, Asset creation of a unified capital markets group across Global Wealth Management and the Investment Bank. Our global reach and the Management and the Investment Bank, and a Global Family breadth of our expertise are major assets that set us apart from Office joint venture. our competitors. We see partnership as key to our growth, both Combining our strengths makes us a better firm. Initiatives within and between business divisions. We are at our best when such as the Group Franchise Awards encourage employees to we combine our strengths to provide our clients with more look for ways to build bridges between areas and offer the whole firm to our clients. 10 Global Wealth Management We are the largest truly global wealth manager, with USD 2.6 many of whom already have a relationship with UBS. Our trillion in invested assets. Our goal is to provide tailored advice globally diversified footprint allows us to capture growth both in and solutions to private clients and family offices. the largest (the US) and the fastest-growing (Asia Pacific) wealth Since the combination of Wealth Management and Wealth markets. Management Americas in 2018, we have continued to deliver We are focusing on increasing mandate and lending comprehensive services to clients, capture operational penetration, delivering innovative solutions for our clients (e.g., efficiencies, and invest in our business. More than 22,000 structured solutions, private markets, sustainability and thematic Global Wealth Management employees assist our clients with investing), as well as enhancing our advisors’ productivity by achieving their goals. Our presence in the ultra high net worth making operational processes more efficient. Additionally, we segment is particularly strong, and we have access to the aim to maintain low attrition and to increase our share of clients’ majority of the world’s billionaires. business. In Japan, we have entered into a comprehensive strategic We are investing in our operating platforms and tools to wealth management partnership with Sumitomo Mitsui Trust support our clients and client advisors, in order to better serve Holdings, Inc. (SuMi Trust Holdings). The new joint venture will our clients’ needs and improve our efficiency. As of 31 combine UBS’s wealth management capabilities with SuMi Trust December 2019, approximately 80% of invested assets booked Holdings’ stature as Japan’s largest independent trust bank. SuMi outside the Americas were on the Wealth Management Platform Trust Holdings offers a range of services, including banking, real as we continue to consolidate our operating platforms there. In estate, asset and wealth advisory services, and has strong client the US, and in collaboration with our third-party software access and brand name awareness in Japan. provider Broadridge, we are building the Wealth Management Americas Platform, which we expect to become operational in Global Wealth Management organizational changes 2021. The development of our platforms is happening alongside enhancements to our digital capabilities for the benefit of our In January 2020, we announced several initiatives designed to clients and advisors. achieve Global Wealth Management’s growth ambitions and to  Refer to “Clients” in the “How we create value for our elevate the quality and value of the service we deliver to our stakeholders” section of this report for more information about clients. First, we have reframed our offering around each client’s innovation and digitalization needs to deliver more tailored services and solutions. Second, we have made it easier for advisors to spend more time with clients How we operate and to better understand their needs and preferences, and we have taken measures to improve our responsiveness and speed We have a global footprint, with a presence in the world’s to market. We created three distinct business units in EMEA – largest and fastest-growing markets and are well positioned to Europe; Central and Eastern Europe; and the Middle East and serve clients with global interests and demands. The US is our Africa – to better capture the diverse opportunities in these largest market, accounting for more than 50% of our invested markets. Finally, we intend to deliver all of the firm’s capabilities assets. We are the largest wealth manager in Asia Pacific and through strategic partnerships with the Investment Bank and the second largest in Latin America in terms of invested assets.1 Asset Management. In Switzerland, we hold a leading market position1 and can deploy the full range of the Group’s products and services across Our focus Personal & Corporate Banking, Asset Management and the Investment Bank. We serve high net worth and ultra high net worth individuals, Our broad domestic footprint in Europe enables us to provide families and family offices around the world, as well as affluent locally adapted offerings, and our local offices across Central clients in selected markets. Through our organizational changes, Europe, the Middle East and Africa keep us close to our clients. we are making our Global Family Office capabilities, which are Through strategic partnerships with the Investment Bank and provided to ultra high net worth individuals, available to more Asset Management, we provide clients with broad access to clients, targeting coverage of around 1,500 in total. financing, global capital markets and portfolio solutions. While we are already a market leader in the ultra high net  Refer to “Working in partnership” in this section for examples worth segment outside the US,1 we believe that we can also of collaboration between the business divisions become the firm of choice for the wealthiest clients in the US, 1 Statements of market position for Global Wealth Management are UBS’s estimates based on published invested assets and internal estimates. 11 Our strategy, business model and environment (section from the UBS 2019 Annual Report) Our businesses As part of our organizational changes, ultra high net worth What we offer client relationships and advisors were integrated into regional business units to increase speed and proximity to clients. In our Our distinctive approach to wealth management is designed to newly established Global Capital Markets team, we combined our strengthen engagement with our clients and to help them Investment Product Services (IPS) unit and Investment Bank teams pursue what matters most to them. and their respective expertise. The Global Capital Markets team By operating as a unified business, we aim to offer our clients provides clients with an enhanced offering, faster execution, and the best wealth management solutions, services and expertise more competitive conditions. globally. Our experts provide our clients with thought leadership, Our main competitors are either large US players that have a investment analysis and formulated investment strategies, as smaller presence outside the US (including Bank of America, well as develop and source solutions for them. The Chief JPMorgan Chase, Morgan Stanley and Wells Fargo) or Investment Office (CIO) provides the concise, comprehensive geographically diverse firms with a smaller presence in the US UBS House View, which identifies and communicates investment (including BNP Paribas, Credit Suisse, HSBC and Julius Baer). Our opportunities designed to protect and increase our clients’ size, geographic presence and diversified client portfolio are wealth over generations. Regional client strategy teams deepen exceptional and would be difficult for other wealth managers to our understanding of clients’ needs, behaviors and preferences, replicate organically. enabling us to tailor our offerings to serve them better. Our product specialists deliver investment solutions, including our flagship investment mandates, innovative long-term themes and sustainable investment offerings.  Refer to “Clients” in the “How we create value for our stakeholders” section of this report for more information about innovation and digitalization 12 Clients benefit from our comprehensive set of capabilities and How we serve our clients expertise, including wealth planning, investing, philanthropy, corporate and banking services, as well as family advisory We serve our clients through local offices, dedicated advisors services. We also offer considerable expertise across structured, and experienced specialists. We use a mix of digital and nonmortgage and securities-based lending. digital channels (including marketing campaigns, events, We work to improve our offerings and respond to changing advertising, publications and digital-only solutions) to help drive client needs. In 2019, we launched a new line of UBS Manage greater awareness of UBS among prospects and reinforce trustofferings in Switzerland. In addition, to meet growing demand, based relationships between advisors and clients. we expanded the number of exclusive private markets opportunities for clients. Our sustainable investing solutions How we are organized continue to be well received. Currently, invested assets in 100% sustainable investing solutions and bespoke sustainable investing Our business division is organized into regional business units: solutions have grown to over USD 9 billion. We also broadened the US and Canada; Latin America; Europe; Central and Eastern our sustainable investing offering, teaming up with external Europe; the Middle East and Africa; Asia Pacific; and partners such as BMO Global Asset Management, Generation Switzerland. We also have a business unit for our Global Family Investment Management and KKR & Co. Inc. to offer clients Office clients. Central functions for global capabilities supporting innovative sustainable development-related investment these business units are the CIO, Global Banking, Global Capital opportunities. Markets and the Chief Operating Office. We are governed by the executive, risk, operating, and asset and liability committees. 13 Our strategy, business model and environment (section from the UBS 2019 Annual Report) Our businesses Personal & Corporate Banking As a leading personal and corporate bank in Switzerland, we In the Corporate & Institutional Clients business, our main provide comprehensive financial products and services to private, competitors are Credit Suisse, the cantonal banks and globally corporate and institutional clients. We are among the country’s active foreign banks. We compete in areas covering basic foremost players in the private and corporate loan market, with banking services, cash management, trade and export finance, a substantial lending portfolio. Personal & Corporate Banking is asset servicing, investment advice for institutional clients, at the core of our universal bank delivery model in Switzerland. corporate finance and lending, and cash and securities transactions for banks. Our focus In the Swiss Personal Banking business, our competitors are Credit Suisse, PostFinance, Raiffeisen, the cantonal banks and We are a leading personal and corporate bank in Switzerland, other regional and local Swiss banks. In addition to those providing a superior client experience and combining technology traditional players, we also face competition from international with a personal touch. players entering the Swiss market and neobanks. We compete in We have established a strong pipeline of growth initiatives areas such as basic banking, mortgages and foreign exchange, across our business areas. Effective 1 November 2019, we have as well as investment mandates and funds. set up a new business area, Digital Platforms & Marketplaces, to rapidly extend our platform offering for mortgages. What we offer We also aim to improve efficiency by streamlining processes and introducing new digital self-service tools. For example, we Our personal banking clients have access to a comprehensive, have rolled out an integrated mortgage workflow for extensions, life cycle-based offering and convenient digital banking. We which significantly reduces the time it takes to set up a contract. deliver a broad range of basic banking products, from payments In addition, we have further optimized our contact center setup, to deposits, cards, online and mobile banking, as well as lending increased automation of repetitive processes, and launched a (predominantly mortgages), investments and retirement services. pilot for a digital mailroom that reduces processing time by The overall service range is complemented by our UBS KeyClub digitizing incoming physical mail and documents. Technology reward program, which provides clients residing in Switzerland plays a key role in our client-centered operating model and we with exclusive and attractive offers, including those from thirdaim to expand our digital leadership. Our multi-year party partners. In close collaboration with Global Wealth digitalization program enables us to further enhance the client Management, we offer leading private banking and wealth experience. Thanks to technological solutions, we are able to management services. offer clients new products and identify new cross-selling Our corporate and institutional clients benefit from our opportunities in a more targeted way. financing and investment solutions, particularly access to equity  Refer to “Clients” in the “How we create value for our and debt capital markets, syndicated and structured credit, stakeholders” section of this report for more information about private placements, leasing, and traditional financing. Our innovation and digitalization transaction banking offers solutions for payment and cash management services, trade and export finance, as well as Operationally, we strive for excellence in execution, focusing global custody solutions for institutional clients. on efficiency while improving our service quality and overall We collaborate closely with the Investment Bank to offer agility. To scale our digital transformation efforts, in 2019 we capital market and foreign exchange products, hedging opened our second digital factory in Switzerland, which is larger strategies and trading capabilities, as well as corporate finance than our first one. These digital factories are now home to advice. In cooperation with Asset Management, we also provide approximately 1,100 employees across various functions. fund and portfolio management solutions. Moreover, we introduced an agile academy and quick-launch  Refer to “Working in partnership” in this section for examples formats to drive innovation and attract key talent. of collaboration between the business divisions How we operate How we serve our clients While we operate primarily in our home market of Switzerland, We are the recognized digital leader, with the highest online we also provide capabilities to support the growth of the and mobile banking penetration in Switzerland, and continue to international business activities of our Swiss corporate and invest in a multi-channel distribution model to further enhance institutional clients through our local hubs in Frankfurt, New York, our leading position. Hong Kong and Singapore. We are the only Swiss bank providing local banking capabilities abroad to its corporate clients. 14 We are adapting existing branch formats to suit evolving For marketing campaigns, we use online media (including client needs by converting some locations to smaller, more agile social media and search engine advertising), out-of-home media branches that serve as digital support hubs and are intended to (posters and digital billboards) and, very selectively, print, TV, ensure a strong local presence along with advice on basic client radio and cinema advertising. In line with our position as a needs. We aim to further reshape our physical footprint in an digital leader in Swiss banking, and because of the channel’s innovative and client-centric way, particularly by defining future cost-effectiveness, we follow a digital-first media strategy. More branch formats with different purposes. than 50% of our media spending goes into online channels. In addition, we continue to provide our expertise to our clients through our contact center and our digital channels, How we are organized offering basic banking services and transactions. Dedicated client advisors serve personal banking clients who need tailored Our business division is organized into Personal Banking, solutions. Corporate & Institutional Clients, and Digital Platforms & As part of our sustainability road map, we are substantially Marketplaces. Geographically, our business, with its 267 expanding our offerings. Our personal banking and institutional branches, is organized into 10 regions, covering distinct Swiss clients have access to a number of sustainable investment economic areas. We are governed by the executive, risk and solutions, and we promote innovative approaches for corporate operating committees, and operate mainly through UBS banking clients. For example, we issued the first green bond for Switzerland AG. a listed company in Switzerland. 1 The size of the circles on the map reflects the number of branches in each location. 15 Our strategy, business model and environment (section from the UBS 2019 Annual Report) Our businesses Asset Management UBS Asset Management is a large-scale and diversified global focused on delivering superior multi-asset strategies and whiteasset manager, with USD 903 billion in invested assets. We offer label solutions to meet the needs of clients around the world. investment capabilities and styles across all major traditional and We also continue to intensify our cross-divisional alternative asset classes, as well as advisory support to collaboration, in particular with Global Wealth Management, to institutions, wholesale intermediaries and Global Wealth enable our teams to draw on the best ideas, solutions and Management clients around the world. capabilities from across the firm to deliver superior investment performance and experiences for our clients. Our focus  Refer to “Working in partnership” in this section for examples of collaboration between the business divisions Our strategy is focused on capitalizing on the areas where we have a leading position to drive further profitable growth and To support our growth, we are focused on disciplined scale. execution of our operational excellence initiatives. This includes Sustainable and Impact Investing remains a key area, as further automation, simplification, process optimization and clients increasingly seek solutions that combine their investment offshoring / nearshoring of selected activities, complemented by goals with sustainability objectives. We continue the expansion a continued modernization of our platform and development of of our world-class capabilities in areas such as climate-aware our analytics and data capabilities. solutions. We do this through: product and service innovation; In January 2020, we announced a number of changes to the dedicated research; integration of environmental, social and operational setup of our Platforms businesses intended to deliver governance factors into our investment processes, leveraging greater scale and breadth of offering for our clients and ensure our proprietary analytics; and active corporate engagement. the ongoing development of these world-class businesses in a In response to the increasing importance of private markets highly competitive marketplace. The changes include the and alternative investments, we are building on our existing proposed sale of a majority stake (51.2%) in UBS Fondcenter to expertise in these areas, including our hedge fund and real Clearstream, Deutsche Börse Group’s post-trade services estate businesses, as well as our capabilities across provider. The sale is expected to close in the second half of infrastructure, private equity and private debt. 2020, subject to customary closing conditions. In addition, in We continue to develop our award-winning1 Indexed and order to fully leverage the expertise and resources within the Alternative Beta business, including exchange-traded funds wider Group to accelerate the growth of the business, we have (ETFs) in Asia Pacific, Europe and Switzerland. We provide decided to transfer UBS Partner, our highly innovative whitecustomization while leveraging our highly scalable platform, label technology solution, to the Corporate & Institutional with a particular focus on key areas such as sustainability and Clients International business within the Personal & Corporate fixed income products. Since 2016, the Alternative Beta business Banking business division. UBS Partner will be part of UBS’s “The has seen growth in invested assets of approximately 85%. Bank for Banks” client offering, and this is an exciting step in Geographically, we are investing in our leading presence and our collaboration efforts across the firm to bring the best of UBS products in China, both onshore and offshore, one of the to our clients. fastest-growing asset management markets in the world, With these changes, we are making a step change in the building on our extensive and long-standing presence in the Asia proposition for our clients, who will have seamless access to Pacific region. expanded platform capabilities, while at the same time enabling In the rapidly evolving and attractive wholesale segment, we us to sharpen our focus on the execution of our strategic aim to significantly expand our market share through a priorities. combination of continued client penetration, expansion of our strategic partnerships with distributors and the build-out of our How we operate client service offerings.  Refer to “Clients” in the “How we create value for our We cover the main asset management markets globally, and stakeholders” section of this report for more information about have a local presence in four regions: the Americas; Europe, the innovation and digitalization Middle East and Africa; Switzerland; and Asia Pacific. Our main competitors are global firms with wide-ranging To drive further growth in our Investment Solutions business, capabilities and distribution channels, such as Amundi, which provides access to and combines the breadth and depth BlackRock, DWS, Goldman Sachs Asset Management, Invesco, of our capabilities across public and private markets, we are JPMorgan Asset Management, Morgan Stanley Investment Management and Schroders, as well as firms with a specific market or asset class focus. 1 Second largest Europe-based indexed player based on peers’ public reporting (UBS calculation, 3Q19) and ranked fourth largest ETF provider in Europe as of December 2019 (source: ETFGI). 16 What we offer Our teams are based in the key financial markets, bringing our unique perspectives and global expertise to our clients We offer clients a wide range of investment products and around the world. This, in combination with our presence on the services in different asset classes in the form of segregated, ground, enables our teams to develop long-term relationships pooled or advisory mandates, as well as registered investment with our clients and a deep understanding of their specific funds in various jurisdictions. needs. Our traditional and alternative capabilities include equities, fixed income, hedge funds, real estate and private markets, and How we are organized indexed and alternative beta strategies (including ETFs), as well as sustainable and impact investing products and solutions. Our business division is organized along five areas: Client Our Investment Solutions business draws on the breadth of Coverage, Investments, Real Estate & Private Markets, Products our capabilities to offer: asset allocation and currency investment and the COO Area. We are based worldwide across four strategies across the risk / return spectrum; customized multiregions, with nine main hubs: Chicago, Hong Kong, London, asset solutions, advisory and fiduciary services; and multiNew York, Shanghai, Singapore, Sydney, Tokyo and Zurich. manager hedge fund solutions and advisory services. We are governed by executive, risk and operating committees, supplemented by business unit-specific committees. How we serve our clients We deliver our investment products and services directly to institutional clients. High net worth and retail clients are served through Global Wealth Management, third-party banks and distributors. 17 Our strategy, business model and environment (section from the UBS 2019 Annual Report) Our businesses Investment Bank The Investment Bank provides a range of services to institutional, and will utilize its deep global industry expertise to meet the corporate and wealth management clients to help them raise emerging needs of its clients. In Global Markets, we are focused capital, grow their businesses, invest for growth and manage on clients’ expectation of excellence in execution, financing and risks. We are focused on our traditional strengths in equities, structured solutions. foreign exchange, research, advisory services and capital Our digital strategy is led by our businesses, which harness markets, complemented by a targeted rates and credit platform. technology to deliver superior and differentiated client service and We use our powerful research and technology capabilities to content. We established the UBS Investment Bank Innovation Lab support our clients as they adapt to the evolving market to speed up innovation by facilitating proofs of concept. In Global structures and changes in the regulatory, technological, Markets, the new Digital Transformation horizontal function economic and competitive landscapes. facilitates adoption of best-in-class practices around trade idea We aspire to deliver market-leading solutions to clients, using generation, liquidity management, pricing tools and risk our intellectual capital and electronic platforms. We also provide management. In Investment Bank Research, we continue to build services to Global Wealth Management, Personal & Corporate UBS Evidence Lab Innovations to concentrate on data-driven Banking and Asset Management, while managing our outcomes. balance sheet, costs, risk-weighted assets and leverage ratio Our balanced global reach gives us attractive options for denominator with discipline. growth across various regions. In the Americas, the largest Our capital-light business model allows the Investment Bank investment banking fee pool globally, we are focusing on to deliver digital, research and banking capabilities, consuming increasing our market share in our core Global Banking and up to one-third of Group resources. Global Markets businesses. In Asia Pacific, we see opportunities primarily from expected Structural changes in the Investment Bank market internationalization and growth in China. We are planning to grow by further strengthening Global Banking, both In January 2020, we realigned our Investment Bank to meet the onshore and offshore. Partnerships between the Investment evolving needs of our clients and to further focus resources on Bank’s businesses and the Group, including the creation of a opportunities for profitable growth and digital transformation. unified capital markets group, and, externally, joint ventures Corporate Client Solutions and Investor Client Services were such as that with Banco do Brasil, are a key strategic focus. renamed Global Banking and Global Markets, respectively. These initiatives should lead to growth by delivering global Global Banking moves to two product verticals (Capital Markets products to each region, leveraging our global connectivity and Advisory), adopting a global coverage model. Global across borders and sharing and strengthening our best client Markets combines Equities and Foreign Exchange, Rates and relationships. Credit, and introduces three product verticals (Execution &  Refer to “Working in partnership” in this section for examples Platform, Derivatives & Solutions, and Financing) and three of collaboration between the business divisions horizontal functions (Risk & Trading, Distribution and Digital Transformation). The new Global Markets structure is designed How we operate to facilitate the alignment of business processes and operations and to reduce inefficiencies and duplication. It further permits a Our geographically balanced business has a global reach, with more holistic understanding of our clients’ cross-product needs a presence in more than 30 countries and principal offices in and is designed to foster tighter coordination of client coverage the major financial hubs. and distribution. This will allow for improved oversight of key Competing firms are active in many of our markets, but our risks and the allocation of resources. Investment Bank Research strategy differentiates us, with its focus on leadership in the and UBS Evidence Lab Innovations continue to be a critical part selected areas where we have chosen to compete, and a of our advisory and content offering. business model that leverages talent and technology rather than The changes are effective 1 January and we will provide balance sheet. restated prior-period information in advance of our first quarter Our main competitors are the major global investment banks, 2020 results. including Morgan Stanley, Credit Suisse and Goldman Sachs, as well as corporate investment banks, including Bank of America, Our focus Barclays, Citigroup, BNP Paribas, Deutsche Bank and JPMorgan Chase. We also compete with boutique investment banks and Our key priority is disciplined growth in the capital-light advisory fintech firms in certain regions and with regard to certain and execution businesses, while accelerating our digital products. transformation. Global Banking has a global coverage model 18 Through strategic partnerships with Global Wealth Since 2005, we have addressed increasing client demand for Management and Asset Management, we provide clients with sustainable investing by providing thematic and sector research. broad access to financing, global capital markets and portfolio We also provide investment solutions through socially solutions. responsible and impact exchange-traded funds and index-linked  Refer to “Working in partnership” in this section for examples notes. In addition, we offer capital-raising and strategic advisory of collaboration between the business divisions services globally to companies that make a positive contribution to climate change mitigation and adaptation. What we offer How we serve our clients Through our Global Banking business, we advise our clients on strategic business opportunities and help them raise capital to We interact with our clients digitally and in person. In Global fund their activities. Banking, we leverage our intellectual capital and relationships Our Global Markets business enables our clients to buy, sell to deliver high-quality solutions for our clients. In Global and finance securities on capital markets across the globe and to Markets, we use our execution capabilities, differentiated manage their risks and liquidity. Furthermore, in Investment research content, bespoke solutions, client franchise model, Bank Research, we offer clients key insights on major financial and our global platform to expand coverage across a broad set markets and securities around the globe. Separately, our team of of institutional and corporate clients. In Investment Bank experts in UBS Evidence Lab Innovations specializes in creating Research, we deliver high-quality differentiated research to our insightful data sets on diverse topics for companies of all sizes, institutional clients using a wide range of methods, including spanning more than 30 countries and 50 sectors. We seek to UBS Neo, our multi-channel platform. develop new products and solutions that are consistent with our capital-efficient business model. These are typically related to How we are organized new technologies or changing market standards.  Refer to “Clients” in the “How we create value for our Our business division is organized into the following three units: stakeholders” section of this report for more information about Global Banking, Global Markets, and Investment Bank Research innovation and digitalization and UBS Evidence Lab Innovations. We are governed by the executive, operating, risk, and asset and liability committees. Each business unit is organized globally by product. 19 Our strategy, business model and environment (section from the UBS 2019 Annual Report) Our businesses Corporate Center Our Corporate Center provides services to the Group, with a Since our first quarter 2019 report and in compliance with focus on effectiveness, risk mitigation and efficiency. Corporate IFRS 8, Operating Segments, we provide results for total Center also includes the Non-core and Legacy Portfolio unit. Corporate Center only and do not separately report Corporate Center – Services, Group Asset and Liability Management How we are organized (Group ALM) and Non-core and Legacy Portfolio. Furthermore, we have combined Group Treasury operationally with Group Corporate Center ALM and call this combined function Group Treasury. The major areas within Corporate Center are Group Chief  Refer to the “Significant accounting and financial reporting Operating Officer (Group Technology, Group Corporate Services, changes” section and “Note 1 Summary of significant Group Human Resources and Group Operations), Group accounting policies” in the “Consolidated financial statements” Treasury, Group Finance, Group Legal, Group Risk Control, section of this report for more information about the changes Group Communications & Branding, Group Compliance, in the structure of Corporate Center Regulatory & Governance, UBS in society, and Non-core and Legacy Portfolio. Group Treasury Over recent years, we have progressively aligned our support Group Treasury manages the structural risk of our balance functions with our business divisions. We operate the Group sheet, including interest rate risk, structural foreign exchange with the vast majority of these functions either fully aligned or risk and collateral risk, as well as the risks associated with our shared among business divisions, where they have full liquidity and funding portfolios. Group Treasury serves all management responsibility. By keeping the activities of the business divisions and its risk management is fully integrated businesses and support functions close together, we increase into the Group’s risk governance framework. efficiency and create a working environment built on a culture of accountability and collaboration Non-core and Legacy Portfolio The Non-core and Legacy Portfolio, a small residual set of Non-core and Legacy Portfolio manages legacy positions from activities in Group Treasury and certain other function costs businesses exited by the Investment Bank, following a largely mainly related to deferred tax assets and costs relating to our passive wind-down strategy. It is overseen by a committee legal entity transformation program are retained centrally. chaired by the Group Chief Risk Officer. The portfolio also includes positions relating to legal matters arising from businesses that were transferred to it at the time of its formation.  Refer to “Note 21 Provisions and contingent liabilities” in the “Consolidated financial statements” section of this report for more information about litigation, regulatory and similar matters 20 Our environment Current market climate Global economic developments in 2019 the year. The ECB cut its deposit rate from negative 0.4% to negative 0.5%. US inflation was close to the target at 1.8%, In a year characterized by strong equity markets, ultra-low permitting three quarter-point rate cuts over the course of the volatility and an inflection in interest rates, the pace of the year to between 1.5% and 1.75%. global economy slowed on a broad basis in 2019. World GDP Equity markets rallied, with all major indices advancing. The grew by 3.1%, which was substantially lower than the 3.7% MSCI All Country World Index gave a total return of 27% in US growth achieved in 2018 and represents the weakest growth dollars. The S&P 500 index in the US returned 31%, while the rate since the financial crisis. technology-heavy Nasdaq Composite gained 37%. China’s CSI US GDP increased 2.3%, compared with 2.9% in 2018, as 300 was up 41% in local currency terms. Less well-performing trade tensions between the US and China hindered business markets included the UK’s FTSE 100 and Hong Kong’s Hang investment and the boost from tax cuts introduced in December Seng, which both returned 17% in local currency terms. 2017 ebbed. It was also a favorable year for investors holding government Trade tensions represented an even more serious drag on bonds. The yield on 10-year US Treasury bonds fell around growth in the eurozone, which relies more than the US on 80 basis points to 1.9%. The yield on the German Bund of the global trade, manufacturing output, and business investment. same tenor fell 40 basis points to negative 0.2%. Growth in the eurozone decreased to 1.2% in 2019, compared with 1.9% in 2018. Germany’s economy expanded by only Economic and market outlook for 2020 0.6%, after a 1.5% increase in the previous year. Outside the Eurozone, Swiss growth decreased as well, to 0.8%, compared We expect continued sub-trend growth in the coming year, and with 2.8% in 2018. the global economy to continue expanding at about the same China’s government attempted to partially offset the effects pace as in 2019. Consumer spending has remained robust in of increasing tariffs on its exports to the US by reducing bank much of the world, especially in the US, where it is supported by reserve requirements and providing extra fiscal leeway to local a vibrant job market. The year ended with news of a “Phase 1” governments. However, this stimulus was limited by concerns trade deal between the US and China, along with indications over high leverage in the economy. GDP growth decreased to that tensions between the two powers may lessen. Not only did around 6.1%, compared with 6.7% in 2018. the agreement withdraw planned tariff increases and reverse In other leading emerging economies, growth slowed or some existing tariffs, it also moved negotiations forward in other stabilized at low levels. The economy of India, which until areas of contention, such as intellectual property protection and recently had been one of the world’s fastest-growing major US access to China’s financial services market. While this truce nations, expanded by 5%, compared with 6.1% in 2018. could be fragile and the US–China rivalry is not about to end Momentum was weakened by the problems of the shadowanytime soon, the deal appears to reduce the risks to the global banking sector, which has been reducing the availability of credit economy and business investment. to consumers. The Mexican economy, meanwhile, was roughly The UK left the European Union on 31 January 2020 and has flat after expanding 2% in 2018, and Brazil’s growth rate entered a transition period in which the UK now faces a race to decreased to 1.1% from 1.3%. conclude talks on a trade deal with the EU ahead of the end of Major central banks were able to keep their accommodating its transition period on 31 December 2020. monetary policies in place in 2019, given that low inflation rates The next major political focus for markets will be the US election persisted. Eurozone inflation stayed below the European Central in November, which could generate higher volatility and affect key Bank’s (the ECB) target (of at or below 2%), at around 1.2% for US sectors, such as technology, energy, finance and health care. 21 Our strategy, business model and environment (section from the UBS 2019 Annual Report) Our environment Against a backdrop of sluggish growth and continued economy. A significant rise in the number of Covid-19 political risk, we believe central banks will be in no rush to raise infections, infections in a wide range of countries and regions, rates. We do not expect the US Federal Reserve to increase rates or a prolongation of the outbreak, could increase the adverse in the coming year, barring an unexpected shift in the trajectory economic effects. of the economic data. Rates are unlikely to rise again until 2021. In terms of investing, stocks in most major markets are We expect the ECB to cut rates to negative 0.6%, with the Swiss trading above historical averages on a price-to-earnings basis. As National Bank maintaining rates at a negative 0.75%. a result, we believe equity market returns are more likely to be The outbreak of novel Coronavirus or Covid-19 in China and driven by earnings growth than by a further expansion of its subsequent spread to other countries is likely to increase multiples. Markets should also be supported by continuing investor uncertainty. Although our base economic forecast is economic growth in 2020. The risk of a recession remains that the outbreak of Covid-19 will be contained and the effect relatively low. Uncertainty over the effects of the Covid-19 on full-year economic growth will be relatively limited, the virus outbreak has substantially increased the macroeconomic risk to and containment measures are likely to have at least a shortgrowth and this increased risk has at least partially been term adverse effect on economic activity in China and other reflected in recent declines in equity markets. affected countries, with a collateral impact on the global 22 Industry trends While our industry was heavily affected by regulatory New competitors developments over the past decade, technology has clearly emerged as the main driver of change today and is expected to Our competitive environment is also evolving. In addition to our further affect the competitive landscape as well as our products traditional competitors in the asset-gathering businesses, new and operations going forward. In parallel, our industry is entrants are targeting selected components of the value chain. materially driven by market and macroeconomic conditions. However, we have not yet seen a fundamental unbundling of  Refer to “Current market climate” in this section for information the value chain and client relationships, which might ultimately about global economic growth result in the disintermediation of banks by new competitors. Over the longer term, we believe the entry into the financial Digitalization services industry of large platform companies could pose a significant competitive threat, given their strong client franchises Technology is changing the way banks operate and we expect this and access to client data. Fintech firms are gaining momentum; to continue, in step with exponential advances in computing however, they have not materially disrupted our asset-gathering capability, evolving customer needs and digital trends. Investment businesses to date. We see a trend in forging partnerships in technology is no longer solely considered a means of making between new entrants and incumbent banks, with the latter banks more efficient. Today, such investment is the key to keeping acquiring technology from fintech firms, thus gaining an edge banks flexible and competitive in a digitalized world, and it creates over competitors in terms of technology, cost efficiency, and the opportunity to develop new business models. service quality. By connecting across the financial industry ecosystem through our innovation labs, digital factories, Future of Finance initiatives, Regulation and project collaborations, we aim to remain at the forefront of the digital movement to drive client experience as well as The post-2008 regulatory reform agenda has largely been operational excellence. At the heart of our digital journey is the completed. While some areas, such as funding in resolution, focus on our clients and their evolving needs. The speed, scale, must still be fully addressed, and the implementation of certain security, transparency and precision that new technologies can standards, such as the finalized Basel III capital standard, is offer enable us to create new services and experiences for our continuing on a national level, the focus is shifting from clients. regulation to supervision. In parallel, some regulators are We also aim to improve operational efficiency by increasing the reviewing the efficiency of the new frameworks. range of modernized and modularized applications and In general, regulatory-driven change continues to consume infrastructure in our IT portfolio, as well as by leveraging cloud substantial resources. In 2020, we expect further consideration technology and a growing number of front-to-back automated of adjustments to the Swiss too-big-to-fail framework, in systems and processes. Effective data management and protection particular focused on additional liquidity requirements for are crucial to us. The generated and curated data from our systemically important banks, and the national implementation applications is protected under our data management framework, of final Basel III rules. We expect continued work on resolutionand supports the development of responsible artificial intelligence related reforms, including stress testing, and a sustained focus for better tailoring our client and employee experience. on conduct and anti-money laundering. Furthermore, we are experiencing a surge in sustainability-related policy proposals Consolidation targeted at various aspects of financial services across the globe. We also expect regulatory initiatives to address some of the In the financial services industry, many regions and businesses are more recent challenges that could affect financial stability, such still highly fragmented. We expect further consolidation, with as shadow banking and digital currencies. ongoing margin pressure, the search for cost efficiencies and Many of these developments are happening in the context of increasing scale advantages resulting from the fixed costs of increased protectionism, posing challenges to the provision of technology and regulation being the key drivers. Many banks also cross-border financial services. Further restrictions with regard to seek increasing exposure and access to regions with attractive market access into the EU in particular would have a significant growth profiles, such as Asia and emerging markets, through local effect on Switzerland as a financial center, affecting also UBS. acquisitions or partnerships. Lastly, the increased focus on core Variations in how different countries implement rules, and an capabilities or geographical footprints and the ongoing increasing national focus, bring a risk of additional regulatory simplification of business models to reduce operational and fragmentation, which in turn may lead to higher costs for us and compliance risks will result in further disposals of non-core new financial stability risks. businesses and assets. 23 Our strategy, business model and environment (section from the UBS 2019 Annual Report) Our environment However, we believe the adaptations made to our business conversation with clients about what is most important to them. model and our proactive management of regulatory change put We help clients organize their financial life along three key us in a strong position to absorb upcoming changes to the strategies: Liquidity to help provide cash flow for short-term regulatory environment. expenses; Longevity for long-term needs; and Legacy for needs  Refer to the “Regulatory and legal developments” section of that go beyond their own and help improve the lives of others, a this report for more information key part of wealth transfer planning. Wealth creation Shift into passive strategies In 2018, global wealth overall grew marginally, given a steep We note a continuing trend of separation between low-cost, decline in equity market performance in the fourth quarter. This passive strategies and high-alpha active and alternative trend was partially reversed in 2019, as equity markets rallied. strategies. Passive management is beneficial in an environment Today, half of global wealth is concentrated in the Americas, with rising stock markets, such as the equity bull markets of the followed by Asia Pacific (with approximately 30%) and the last decade. At the same time, central banks’ monetary policies remainder in Europe, the Middle East and Africa.1 By segment,2 have kept interest rates at historically low levels, which has had approximately half of global wealth is with high net worth an effect on bond yields and other asset classes. Investors individuals, ultra high net worth individuals hold approximately searching for longer-term higher alpha than passive strategies 30% of global wealth, and the remaining approximately 20% is can provide have been diversifying their portfolios into real within the affluent segment. Over the next four years, global assets and alternatives and we expect this trend to continue. We wealth is expected to grow by 5–10% annually.1 Regionally, believe the breadth of UBS Asset Management’s investment wealth creation will likely be driven by Asia Pacific and North expertise allows us to meet client demands across asset classes America. The share of the Americas is expected to remain stable and strategies. over the next four years at approximately 50% of global wealth, while the share of Europe, the Middle East and Africa is Retirement funding expected to further reduce as Asia Pacific grows. In particular, China’s share of global wealth is expected to grow to around Over recent years, the pension industry has faced two key 15% by 2023. challenges: fundamental demographic shifts, such as aging populations, and lower expected returns due to all-time low Wealth transfer interest rates. Beyond structural answers to these challenges, such as the Demographic and socioeconomic developments continue to progressive shift from defined benefit to defined contribution generate shifts in wealth. By 2030 for example, USD 15.4 trillion pensions, we believe pension funds are reassessing their asset of global wealth is expected to be transferred by individuals with allocation approach. Indeed, many pension funds are now a net worth of USD 5 million or more, according to a 2019 allocating a higher share of their portfolios to alternative report by Wealth-X.3 In addition, women now control more investments, such as private equity, hedge funds, real estate and wealth than ever before: UBS’s 2019 report titled “The infrastructure, in a search for higher-yielding exposures. billionaire effect – Billionaires insights 2019” found that the We see this development as positive for UBS, as these funds number of female billionaires had grown by 46% in five years, will likely need further support to define their investment outpacing the growth of male billionaires. We are responding to strategy and target portfolio allocation. In addition, our private the evolving wealth landscape with a framework that addresses banking and wealth management clients are expected to need all aspects of our clients’ financial lives, called UBS Wealth Way. further financial and retirement planning advice, which we are UBS Wealth Way begins with discovery questions and a able to provide holistically through our wealth planning services. 1 Based on BCG Global Wealth Report 2019. 2 The BCG Global Wealth Report 2019 defines wealth segmentation as follows: wealth of greater than USD 20 million to be classified as ultra high net worth individuals; USD 1–20 million for high net worth individuals; USD 0.25–1 million for affluent individuals. 3 A Generational Shift: Family Wealth Transfer Report, issued by Wealth-X in 2019. 24 How we create value for our stakeholders Stakeholder group Stakeholder needs: Value proposition: Key topics discussed: Stakeholder engagement: what do our stakeholders expect from us? how we create value for our what was important to our how did we engage with our stakeholders stakeholders in 2019 stakeholders? Clients Advice on a broad range of products and Delivering tailored advice and Investment performance in light of Individualized client meetings services from trusted experts customized solutions, using our current interest rate situation intellectual capital and digital Requests for regular client The option of personal interaction with our capabilities Holistic goals-based financial feedback, feedback monitoring advisors in combination with digital service planning and complaints handling anywhere, anytime (convenient digital Building long-term personalized banking) relationships with our clients Sustainable finance and investing Specialized client events and possibilities conferences including information Top quality solutions and the highest Developing new products and services in on key developments and standards in terms of asset safety, data and response to clients’ evolving needs in Data privacy and security opportunities information security, confidentiality and the digital age privacy Offerings for small enterprises in Client satisfaction surveys Providing access to the world’s capital Personal & Corporate Banking A combination of global reach and local markets and bespoke financing service resulting in positive investment outcomes Meeting increasing demand from clients for sustainable investments Competitively priced products and services Investors Disciplined execution of our strategy Executing our strategy with discipline Structural growth and return Financial reports, investor and leading to attractive capital returns through and agility as the external environment potential in our businesses analyst conference calls, and/or dividends and share repurchases evolves, while aiming to deliver costwebcasts, as well as media and capital-efficient growth Cost efficiency and ability to updates on our performance or Comprehensive and clear disclosures on generate positive operating other disclosures quantitative and qualitative data necessary Providing transparent, timely and leverage to make an informed investment decision reliable public disclosures General shareholder meetings Ability to protect or even grow Recognize and proactively address strategic revenues in a low-for-longer Investor and analyst meetings opportunities and challenges interest rate environment Employees A world-class employer providing an Attracting and developing great talent The three keys to a strong Regular employee surveys engaging and supportive workplace culture corporate culture Fostering a workplace culture that Group Franchise Awards program Skill and career development opportunities supports and engages our employees, Our approach to hiring great and rewards for performance enabling them to develop their careers people and supporting their Regular “Ask the CEO” events, and unlock their full potential growth along with senior leadership, An environment that provides a sense of regional and functional employee belonging and of adding value to clients The importance of diversity and sessions and to society inclusion Society Facilitation of economic development that Promoting significant and lasting Sustainable finance Dialogs with regulators and is sustainable for the planet and humanity improvements in the well-being of governments communities in which we operate Our climate strategy Maximization of our positive effect and Partnerships with social minimization of any negative effects on Taking an active role in the transition of Our client and corporate institutions society and the environment our economy toward environmentally philanthropy efforts and socially sustainable solutions Community investments Proactive management of the environmental and societal impacts of our Interaction with NGOs business Participation in forums and round tables, as well as industry-, sectorand topic-specific debates 25 Our strategy, business model and environment (section from the UBS 2019 Annual Report) How we create value for our stakeholders Clients Our clients are the heart of our business. We are committed to banks. Personal & Corporate Banking clients look for financial building and sustaining long-term relationships based on mutual advice based on their needs at each stage of their individual or respect, trust and integrity. Understanding our clients’ needs and corporate journey. We aim to deliver outstanding advice to them expectations enables us to best serve their interests and to via our client advisors and also through digital banking. Our create value for them. clients demand convenience, 24/7 availability, security and value for money. We provide clients with access to a broad range of Our clients and what matters most to them services and products offered in all relevant areas: basic banking, investing, financing (including mortgages), retirement planning, There is no archetypal UBS client. Our clients have varying needs, cash management, trade and export finance, global custody, but each of them expects outstanding advice and service, a wide and company succession, among others. range of choices, and an excellent client experience. In Asset Management, we deliver investment products and Global Wealth Management is focused on serving the unique services directly to approximately 3,000 clients around the world – and sophisticated needs of high net worth and ultra high net including sovereign institutions, central banks, supranational worth individuals, families, and family offices around the world, corporations, pension funds, insurers and charities – as well as to as well as affluent clients in selected markets. We provide these Global Wealth Management and its clients, wholesale clients with access to outstanding advice, service, and intermediaries and financial institutions. Our clients seek global investment opportunities from around the globe, delivered by insights and a holistic approach to tailoring solutions. By building experts they can trust. Using a holistic, goals-based approach to long-term, personalized relationships with our clients and financial planning, we deliver a personalized wealth partners, we aim to achieve a deep understanding of their needs management experience and work side-by-side with clients to and to earn their trust. We draw on the breadth and depth of our help them realize their ambitions. global investment capabilities – across traditional and alternative, Our client-facing advisors and the global teams that support active and passive categories – and provide seamless access to them are focused on developing long-term client relationships, world-class platform services to deliver the solutions they need. which often span generations. Global Wealth Management We integrate sustainability into our financial analysis enabling us clients look to us for our expertise in helping them to plan for, to help clients meet their sustainability objectives and their protect and grow their wealth, as well as helping them make fiduciary duties. some of the most important decisions in their lives. From The Investment Bank provides corporate, institutional and significant liquidity events to professional milestones and wealth management clients with expert advice, financial personal turning points, we aim to give our clients the solutions, execution, and access to the world’s capital markets. confidence to move forward and achieve their goals. Through Our business model is specifically built around our clients and extensive research into our clients’ preferences and goals, as well their needs. Corporate clients can access advisory services, debt as broader analysis of investor sentiment globally, we are and equity capital market solutions, and bespoke financing constantly evolving our offerings to meet the shifting priorities through our newly reshaped Global Banking business. of today’s wealthy clients. This includes investing in digital Meanwhile, our Global Markets business is focused on helping capabilities and developing products that help clients fund their institutional clients engage with local markets around the world, lifestyles and manage their cash flow, as well as offering offering equities and equity-linked products, foreign exchange, guidance on how clients can create a lasting and positive impact rates and credit. for their communities and the causes about which they care the  Refer to “Investment Bank” in the “Our businesses” section of most. We have been recognized as the leading global wealth this report for more information about the structural changes in manager for clients interested in sustainable investing,1 with a the Investment Bank commitment to developing solutions that allow clients to align their financial goals and their personal values. Our advisory and content offering is underpinned by the  Refer to “Our focus on ESG” in this section for examples of how research we provide. The differentiated nature of this research, sustainable finance solutions are used across our business combined with UBS Evidence Lab Innovations, which offers divisions and for the benefit of our clients access to insight-ready data sets for thousands of companies, aims to give clients an informational edge when it comes to Personal & Corporate Banking serves a total of approximately understanding markets. As a new offering for 2019, we have 2.6 million individuals and 128,000 firms. We provide services to established the UBS Research Academy, where our fundamental companies ranging from start-ups to large multi-nationals, analytics team provides training for institutional investors on all including specialized entities, such as pension funds and aspects of fundamental investing, leveraging the best of the insurers, real estate companies, commodity traders, and UBS Research and UBS Evidence Lab Innovations platforms. 1 Euromoney Private Banking and Wealth Management Survey 2019: Global Results. 26 Our clients place the highest priority on the confidentiality Personal & Corporate Banking launched several initiatives in and security of their data. The protection of our clients’ data is 2019. Effective 1 November 2019, we have established a new of the utmost importance to us and we have comprehensive business area, Digital Platforms & Marketplaces, which reflects measures in place designed to ensure that data confidentiality our commitment to engage in new digital business models. In and integrity are maintained. We are investing in our IT platform addition to the mortgage platform UBS Atrium, which we to preserve and improve our IT security standards, while launched in 2017 and is directed at corporate and institutional enabling our clients to have secure access to their data via our clients, UBS is set to introduce a mortgage platform for private digital channels. The volume, level of sophistication and impact clients in the first half of 2020. We launched new tools for our of cyberattacks constantly increase, and we aim to maintain a client advisors aimed at improving the in-branch advisory robust and agile cybersecurity and information security program experience for clients, so that we are able to suggest the right to manage cyber risk. products that match the clients‘ needs. Thanks to our new mortgage workflow, we have been able to reduce contracting Enhancing the client experience through innovation and time substantially, from 10–15 days for extensions to 24 hours. digitalization We also further simplified our digital banking platform (for both mobile and desktop) and added new services, in addition to We strive to streamline and simplify interactions with our clients expanding the number of possible payment transaction through front-to-back digitalization and innovations. currencies to more than 120. Our clients can now pay in stores In Global Wealth Management, we develop and deploy directly with their smartphones and a wide array of wearables digital tools that preserve and enhance the value of human via Mobile Pay and Swatch Pay. Furthermore, we have relationships. Clients expect the convenience and speed that introduced the ability to pay parking fees via Twint, which has technology offers but, simultaneously, consider personal more than 1.5 million users in Switzerland. As of October 2019, communication with our advisors to be more important than our clients can access we.trade, a blockchain-based trade ever. Modern technology that our advisors use enables them to finance platform, which was the first such platform to be spend more time with clients. And our clients appreciate digital launched by a Swiss bank. Recognizing changing client needs tools that improve their experience, such as easy ways to view and growing demand from start-up companies for a broader their portfolios, access to research that is tailored to their needs, offering, we have launched UBS Start Business, which includes and multiple ways to communicate with their advisors. In 2019, digital accounting, mentoring for business planning, and many we introduced a number of new tools to help deliver on those other services in addition to the banking services UBS offers. The expectations. For example, our Asset Wizard platform provides attractive offering aims to assist young entrepreneurs in every ultra high net worth clients in the US with consolidated and stage of their business’s journey. Similarly, we bundle our digital sophisticated performance and risk analytics for their assets held offering for small companies in UBS Digital Business, which at UBS and across multiple banks, portfolios, managers, and provides the convenience and leading digital solutions that small locations. Also, in Asia, we launched the UBS Advisor Messaging companies look for. We have also introduced our vendor leasing for WhatsApp, allowing for real-time conversations between solution, an online tool that allows vendors to provide leasing clients and advisors, to create a better client experience. And we proposals directly to their clients (based on online credit continue to make progress by executing our multi-year strategy decisions) and to generate contracts. For corporate clients, we to serve clients globally from two platforms: the Wealth have made available the new UBS Payment Tracking service Management Americas Platform in the US and the Wealth (SWIFT global payments innovation). Management Platform outside the US. Our core investment In Asset Management, we are investing in new tools and solutions consist of: UBS Manage, a discretionary mandate technologies, as well as our alternative data capabilities, to solution where we use our expertise to invest clients’ assets support our teams’ investment decision-making processes and according to a predefined investment strategy; UBS Advice, enhance client service. In addition, our operational excellence which adds portfolio monitoring and investment programs are focused on building a scalable and globally recommendations based on an agreed investment strategy to integrated operating platform to better enable our teams to self-directed accounts; and UBS Transact, a self-directed account deliver the full breadth of our capabilities to clients around the providing clients access to UBS execution capabilities and the world. UBS House View. All our solutions draw on our broad range of investment instruments across stocks, bonds, currencies, structured products, investment funds and alternative investments. 27 Our strategy, business model and environment (section from the UBS 2019 Annual Report) How we create value for our stakeholders The Investment Bank strives to be the digital investment bank practices. Our experts also produce insightful thought leadership of the future, with innovation-led businesses that drive on markets and assets that is regularly shared with clients, as efficiencies and solutions. We set up the UBS Investment Bank well as frequently meeting investors to answer questions, clarify Innovation Lab to help connect business teams in order to the investment strategy or discuss issues that can affect markets. leverage best practice, build and test proofs of concept safely and quickly, and inspire a culture of innovation. We see How we measure client satisfaction increasing interest from clients in financial and alternative data sets that they can incorporate into their models. In response, we We utilize different measures to regularly assess our set up UBS Data Solutions to meet those needs through a achievements and the satisfaction of our clients. centralized robust data processing and distribution platform. Global Wealth Management is increasingly leveraging We strive to develop new products and solutions that are technology and analytics software to collect client feedback. In consistent with our capital-efficient business model. These are 2019, we began introducing a digital feedback tool to typically related to new technologies or changing market supplement more traditional survey methods. The tool allows standards. Examples include FX spot & STIR tree E-pricing, which Global Wealth Management to survey clients about their provides client-tailored pricing streams and hedging satisfaction with their advisors and UBS, as well as to identify optimization, and Technology Enabled Sales, which enables additional financial needs. Advisors are provided with real-time faster delivery and distribution of tailored content matched to access to client feedback, enabling them to address concerns our clients’ interests. During 2019, we also launched the client and to follow up on new topics of interest. The tool was piloted portal of UBS Evidence Lab Innovations as part of the firm’s in selected markets in 2019 and is expected to be rolled out strategy to expand our value proposition in the alternative data more broadly throughout 2020. space, which relates to innovative ways to capture data critical We conduct an annual client survey in Personal & Corporate for investment decisions. We also set up UBS Neo, our multiBanking. We have been conducting client surveys in Switzerland channel platform, and the One Client service model, which aims since 2011, consistently covering all private and corporate client to drive superior client outcomes via collaboration, technology segments annually since 2015. Clients assess their satisfaction and data-driven client intelligence. with regard to various topics (e.g., UBS overall, branches, client advisors, products, services) and indicate further product or Engaging with our clients advisory needs. Survey responses are distributed to client advisors, who subsequently follow up with each respondent Communication with our clients enables us to understand their individually. In 2019, we introduced a new machine learning needs and what matters most to them. We use a variety of model which enables us to identify the importance of internal channels to engage with clients, including regular client factors (e.g., advisors, products, prices) and external factors relationship / service meetings where we monitor feedback and (e.g., media impact, market development) with regard to overall satisfaction, as well as various corporate roadshows and satisfaction scores. dedicated events. We also engage with our clients while In Asset Management, we conduct regular surveys, inviting supporting cultural and sports events across Switzerland. institutional and wholesale clients across all our markets to We conduct client events on a regular basis and on a wide participate. They are asked about their satisfaction with client array of topics. For example, in Personal & Corporate Banking, service, products and solutions, as well as other factors relevant we have financing and retirement planning events, and a to their investments. The results are analyzed to identify focus dedicated event for the CFO community. In the Investment areas to improve client satisfaction. Bank, we host around 350 conferences and educational For the Investment Bank, client satisfaction is closely seminars globally throughout the year, covering a broad range monitored by individual product coverage points. Relationship of macro, sector, regional and regulatory topics. More than managers then collate and review feedback holistically, 50,000 clients attended such events in 2019, providing insight conducting regular internal review sessions to address specific and access to our own opinion leaders, policy makers and areas of feedback. The Investment Bank also closely monitors leading industry experts. In Global Wealth Management, we external surveys, such as the Global Institutional Investor Survey, engage with clients in a range of ways, from personalized which provides feedback across a range of investment banking private briefings with subject matter experts, to segment-specific services. events, to large-scale gatherings such as UBS Wealth Insights, We thoroughly evaluate the feedback we receive, including our flagship Pan-Asian investment forum series, which attracts complaints from clients, and take measures to address key more than 3,000 clients every year. In Asset Management, a themes identified. In 2019, clients specifically raised sustainable consistent program of engagement takes place throughout the finance as a key priority, which provided confirmation that we year. Thematic events, such as the UBS Reserve Management are aligned with our clients’ preferences in expanding our Seminar and the Sovereign Investment Circle, bring together sustainable finance offering. institutional investors to debate relevant topics and share best 28 Clients (additional information) defined risk profile, and the customer is advised in line with his or her needs (i.e., client suitability). In addition, the rules require Quality feedback management system product documentation to contain appropriate and easily We have a Quality Feedback system within Global Wealth understandable information on its features, target audience and Management (GWM) and Personal & Corporate Banking (P&C), the scenarios in which the product can be used, as well as a which provides a comprehensive and systematic platform to balanced representation of the associated opportunities and receive and process feedback and suggestions from both clients risks (i.e., product suitability). and employees. Feedback is received in a wide range of formats, including written, electronic, verbal (e.g., comments made to Suitability framework employees in our branches), through social media and via the In the GWM and P&C divisions, a comprehensive suitability Swiss Banking Ombudsman. policy framework is in place. This sets out the structured advisory Client feedback, including complaints and suggestions, is of process governing the way we advise and implement agreed crucial importance, as it supports the development and solutions and also document the steps taken during this process. introduction of new products and services as well as the In addition to other purposes, it comprises requirements for adaptation of our offering in a client-oriented manner. By monitoring and controlling activities that aim to capture tail addressing client feedback, we strive to strengthen client risks. A revised version of this policy entered into force on relationships, improve client satisfaction and make a tangible 1 January 2018. The Investment Bank (IB) and Asset improvement to client service and overall banking services. Management (AM) take their guidance from UBS's suitability Having a wide variety of quality feedback from our clients principles and have implemented processes to ensure enables us to systematically evaluate and review our actions. By appropriate oversight of suitability requirements where sharing their views, clients contribute to quality improvements at applicable. all levels. In this framework, we distinguish between client and product We strive to respond directly to each individual who provides suitability. Client suitability refers to the alignment between the feedback. On significant topics and key developments, we also investor profile of the client and the products and services that provide a collective response in our external reporting. are recommended or made available to the client (or already In 2019, key topics and enhancements included some targeted held in his or her portfolio), including risk information and products and services that centered mostly around digital disclosure. Product suitability refers to a consistent set of banking functionalities. These stemmed in particular from standards applied by a product management unit to define for requests and improvement suggestions for existing and new which specific investors a product may be suitable. features and queries regarding access and security. Feedback from employees (i.e., quality tips and ideas) that is Client suitability based on their knowledge and experience in improving and GWM and P&C have established a structured advisory process updating products, processes and services helps to foster with four distinct steps – understand, propose, agree and creativity and innovation. implement, and review. This process is supported by a number of forms and tools that are available to client advisors. In the first Suitability step (understand), these forms and tools support the initial Clients expect to be provided with products and services that are identification of a client’s investor profile, including but not suitable for them. This is particularly the case in the divisions limited to investment objectives and risk ability. In the second where we serve personal clients as opposed to institutions. step (propose), they serve to help client advisors identify an In nearly all of the countries where we do business, this appropriate investment strategy for a specific client portfolio. expectation has been turned into a legal or regulatory Furthermore, a number of tools and platforms have been requirement for banks acting as financial advisors. Most established to help client advisors match a client’s investment jurisdictions also require the systematic assessment and strategies with appropriate investment proposals and to support documentation of the suitability of products (including thirdthe review step. The IB and AM have established cross-functional party products) and services, including compliance with governance committees to ensure oversight for client suitability applicable eligibility criteria and sales restrictions. These where specific criteria or triggers are met. standards are reflected in local policies and procedures as well as in the respective local control framework. The European Union’s Product suitability Markets in Financial Instruments Directive (MiFID) and the Swiss Advisory platforms and tools divide products according to their risk Financial Services Act (FinSA) are examples of our reflection and characteristics and in doing so help clients and client advisors to implementation of specific standards required by regulators as properly assess the impact of investment products and services on a part of a local control framework. Other locations apply similar client’s portfolio. Additional processes are in place to make product standards as required by the relevant local regulators. documentation available to both client advisors and clients. Finally, To meet both client expectations and regulatory specific legal documentation is required for certain products with requirements, we have established comprehensive rules for specific risks (e.g., hedge funds). assessing the suitability of products and services. These rules are designed to align the assets in a customer’s portfolio with their 29 Our strategy, business model and environment (section from the UBS 2019 Annual Report) How we create value for our stakeholders Divisional approach to suitability After-sales communications Primary ownership of suitability risk and the responsibility for The UBS client experience also includes after-sales addressing it is owned by the business. The suitability policies communication. Again, this communication is, supported by a applicable to GWM, P&C, IB and AM make this clear. number of tools and platforms, including ready-to-use reporting Accordingly, we have pursued a divisional approach to ensure and presentation material. compliance with rapidly changing regulatory regimes, while also addressing particular suitability obligations and remediation of Accessibility identified gaps relating to the divisions. We ensure that our facilities and services are accessible to everyone regardless of disability, capability or technology. We are Monitoring and controls continuously optimizing our websites as well as our e-banking and Monitoring and controls for suitability follow a three-tiered mobile banking platforms to fit the requirements for an AA rating approach. The first-level controls are conducted by the business for accessibility (i.e., WCAG 2.0). All cash machines have access key risk management team under its Origination Control buttons and PIN keypads that are equipped for the visually impaired. Framework, a set of controls designed to prevent and detect Additionally, all ATMs are enabled with voice output through operational risks that arise within the front unit and to ensure clients’ headphones, covering all functions including cash deposits. that residual risk corresponds to risk appetite. The second-level Around 100 ATMs are positioned especially for people with controls are performed by Compliance & Operational Risk restricted mobility. All 40 of our free-standing cash machines Control as Global Minimum Control Standards, which are part correspond to recommendations made by the Americans with of the overall Operational Risk Framework. These controls focus Disabilities Act Accessibility Guidelines (ADAAG). on both a check-the-checker approach, and thematic, deep dive reviews. The third-level controls are exercised by Group Internal Audit, as part of its annual audit plan. 30 Our focus on ESG Our firm is in a powerful position to contribute toward achieving introduce solutions for scaling long-term investment for the 17 United Nations (UN) Sustainable Development Goals (the sustainable development in line with the SDGs. SDGs) by integrating sustainability in our mainstream offerings, Since 2017, we have presented white papers to the World through new and innovative financial products with a positive Economic Forum (the WEF) putting forward recommendations effect on the environment and society, and by advising our for ways in which private capital can achieve the SDGs, while clients on their philanthropic works. Our goal is to be the also outlining our own actions and pledges in that regard. For financial provider of choice for clients who wish to mobilize the WEF annual meeting in 2020, our white paper focused on capital toward the achievement of the SDGs and the orderly climate action and the ways in which investors can mobilize transition to a low-carbon economy. We are shaping the private and institutional capital toward the orderly transition to a landscape of sustainable finance by using thought leadership, low-carbon economy. In response, UBS has developed a Climate innovation and partnerships to support clients in their Aware framework. sustainability efforts. We actively support the development of industry standards. In Our clients are increasingly interested in sustainable finance, 2019, we contributed to the writing of and signed the including sustainable investing (SI), which is especially attractive International Finance Corporation’s Operating Principles for if it can reduce risk or improve returns. More than 80% of Impact Management. These Impact Principles provide a standard wealthy individuals are interested in sustainable investing and for impact investing, in which investors seek to generate positive 45% already hold sustainable investments.1 With regard to asset impact for society alongside financial returns. We also owners across the globe, 78% are integrating environmental, contributed to a report by the Sustainable Finance Working social and governance (ESG) factors into their investment Group of the Institute of International Finance on sustainable process.2 Switzerland, for example, saw an 87% asset growth in investment terminology. institutional sustainable investments in 2018 (compared with  Refer to the Sustainability Report 2019, available from 5 March 2017),3 and the early indicators are that this growth continued 2020 under “Annual reporting” at www.ubs.com/investors, for throughout 2019. our key documents, frameworks and external commitments, and for our climate disclosure following the recommendations Our key public commitments to sustainable finance of the Task Force on Climate-related Financial Disclosures In 2019, we became a founding signatory of the UN Principles What is our governance on ESG? for Responsible Banking (the Principles). The Principles constitute a comprehensive framework for the integration of sustainability Our governance framework on sustainability supports the across banks. They define accountabilities and require each bank creation of long-term value. Our firm’s sustainability activities, to set, publish and work toward ambitious targets. including sustainable finance, are overseen at the highest level Before signing up to the Principles, UBS had already been of our firm and are founded in our Code of Conduct and Ethics. strongly committed both to maximizing positive effects through  Refer to the Sustainability Report 2019, available from 5 March our sustainable business activities and to minimizing negative 2020 under “Annual reporting” at www.ubs.com/investors, for impacts. While our firm’s growing range of sustainable finance the sustainability governance chart products and services supports the former, our environmental and social risk framework helps us to better understand and We regularly review whether our governance framework respond to potential risks to the environment and human rights. continues to reflect our ambitions with regard to sustainability. Our Asset Management business division is among the In 2019, we therefore decided to further sharpen our focus on signatories of the PRI (the Principles for Responsible Investment). sustainable finance and we are now establishing a Sustainable The PRI organization supports the signatories in incorporating ESG Finance Steering Committee. It will be comprised of senior factors into their investment and ownership decisions. In 2019, business leaders engaged in our firm’s sustainable finance UBS also became one of the inaugural members of the CEO efforts, who will work together to ensure that we continue to Alliance on Global Investors for Sustainable Development, which is drive innovation and develop expertise and thought leadership committed to scaling up and speeding up efforts to align business regarding sustainable finance. The Chair of the Sustainable with the SDGs. The Alliance is aimed at harnessing the insights of Finance Steering Committee is a member of the UBS in society private sector leaders on ways to remove impediments and Steering Committee. 1 UBS Investor Watch on the Year Ahead, November 2019. 2 UBS Asset Management and Responsible Investor magazine, ESG: Do You or Don’t You?, June 2019. 3 Swiss Sustainable Investment Market Study 2019, June 2019. 31 Our strategy, business model and environment (section from the UBS 2019 Annual Report) How we create value for our stakeholders How do we define sustainable finance? excluded from portfolios if their areas of activity conflict with an investor’s values); ESG integration (which combines ESG factors Sustainable finance refers to any form of financial service that with traditional financial considerations); and impact investing integrates ESG criteria into business or investment decisions. We (which is designed specifically to help generate a positive social provide sustainable finance solutions across all our business or environmental impact alongside financial returns). divisions and to all our client groups (as shown in the “Key We were among the early movers in developing terminology achievements in 2019” chart on the next page), with a particular to describe our sustainable investing activities and to consistently focus on sustainable investing. report on them. We are, however, conscious of the need to Sustainable investing is an approach that seeks to incorporate simplify and standardize the terminology for sustainable finance, ESG considerations into investment decisions. SI strategies seek which will help to develop and expand that market. We are to achieve a positive environmental or social impact and/or align therefore actively involved in the relevant discussions and are investments with an investor’s values regarding ESG topics, committed to reflecting pertinent changes to terminology in our while aiming to improve portfolio risk and return characteristics. reporting. In the main, we identify three approaches of sustainable investing: exclusion (individual companies or entire industries are Core sustainable investments1 For the year ended % change from USD billion, except where indicated GRI2 31.12.19 31.12.18 31.12.17 31.12.18 Core SI products and mandates Integration – sustainability focus3 FS11 46.4 20.0 12.8 132.4 Integration – ESG integration4 FS11 372.3 224.5 63.2 65.9 Impact investing5 FS11 9.1 4.7 2.8 92.1 Exclusions6 FS11 52.2 50.3 93.0 3.7 Third-party7 FS11 8.5 13.4 9.8 (37.0) Total core sustainable investments FS11 488.5 312.9 181.7 56.1 UBS total invested assets 3,607.0 3,101.0 3,262.0 16.3 Core SI proportion of total invested assets (%) FS11 13.5 10.1 5.6 1 All figures are based on information available in January 2020. 2 FS stands for the performance indicators defined in the Financial Services Sector Supplement of the Global Reporting Initiative reporting framework. 3 Strategies where sustainability is an explicit part of the investment guidelines, universe, selection, and/or investment process. 4 Strategies that integrate environmental, social, and governance (ESG) factors into fundamental financial analysis to improve risk / return. 5 Strategies where the intention is to generate measurable environmental and social impact alongside financial return. 6 Strategies that exclude companies from portfolios where they are not aligned to an investor’s values. Includes customized screening services (single or multiple exclusion criteria). 7 SI products from third-party providers applying a strict and diligent asset selection process; the selection criteria have been reviewed for the end of 2019 reporting cycle, following a stricter approach from the provider of sustainability ratings. Excludes third-party products that went through a systematic GWM onboarding process, now counted under “Integration – sustainability focus.” What do we offer? In 2019, we noted strong momentum in our sustainable finance activities. A key indicator is the development of our core We support clients’ sustainability efforts through thought SI assets, where we managed to more than double penetration, leadership, innovation and partnerships, and we strive to from 5.6% of total invested assets in 2017 to 13.5% (USD 488 incorporate ESG factors into the products and services we billion) in 2019 (2018: 10.1% or USD 313 billion). Core provide. We support corporate and institutional clients who sustainable investments are SI products that involve a strict and want to generate positive environmental and societal impact diligent asset selection process through either exclusions (of using our corporate advisory expertise or by directing capital companies / sectors from portfolios where the companies / through our lending or investment capacity. We assist private sectors are not aligned to an investor’s values) or positive and institutional clients with their desire to invest in accordance selections (such as best-in-class, thematic or ESG integration and with their own social and environmental objectives, and we are impact investing). proactive in discussing these issues with them. Norms-based screening assets, i.e., assets that fall under the Through our Philanthropy Services platform, we are application of a UBS policy1 and do not otherwise qualify as a partnering with clients to manage their philanthropy and core sustainable investment, amounted to USD 818 billion as of maximize their impact, by offering expert advice, carefully 31 December 2019 (up from USD 797 billion in 2018). Total selected programs from UBS Optimus Foundation, and sustainable investments, including norms-based screening assets, innovative social financing mechanisms, such as development accounted for USD 1,306 billion (2018: USD 1,110 billion), or impact bonds. 36.2% (2018: 35.8%), of our total invested assets. 1 The assets in discretionary mandates, in UBS’s actively managed retail and institutional funds, as well as in our firm’s proprietary trading book, are subject to our firm’s policy on the prohibition of investment in and indirect financing of companies involved in the development, production or purchase of anti-personnel mines and cluster munitions. 32 33 Our strategy, business model and environment (section from the UBS 2019 Annual Report) How we create value for our stakeholders Investors We generate long-term value for our investors by executing our Alignment of interests strategy with discipline, striving for costand capital-efficient growth, long-term sustainable value creation, and attractive We aim to align the interests of our employees with those of our shareholder returns. equity and debt investors. This is reflected in our compensation philosophy and practices. Investor base  Refer to “Our compensation philosophy” in the “Compensation” section of this report for more information Our investor base is well diversified. A substantial proportion of our institutional shareholders are based in the US, the UK and Communications Switzerland.  Refer to the “Corporate governance” section of this report for Our Investor Relations function serves as the primary point of more information about disclosed shareholdings contact between UBS and all shareholders. Our senior management and the Investor Relations team regularly interact Costand capital-efficient revenue growth with the institutional investors community, financial analysts and other market participants, such as credit rating agencies. Clear, We aim to drive higher and superior returns by growing and transparent and relevant disclosures, together with regular and leveraging our unique, integrated and complementary business direct interactions with existing and prospective shareholders, portfolio and geographic footprint. Our Global Wealth form the basis for our communications. The Investor Relations Management business is well positioned to take advantage of team also relays the views of and feedback from institutional two secular trends: wealth transfer and wealth creation, partly investors and other market participants on UBS to our senior driven by continued economic growth, particularly in Asia, management. where China is opening its financial markets. Each of our Investor Relations and Corporate Responsibility work together businesses has initiatives to achieve revenue growth and improve and interact with those investors focusing on sustainability topics operating efficiency. relevant to UBS and society at large.  Refer to “Industry trends” in the “Our environment” section of  Refer to “Corporate governance” and “Information policy” in this report for more information about wealth creation and the “Corporate governance” section of this report for more wealth transfer information  Refer to “Society” in this section for more information about We aim to balance growth opportunities with cost and capital our sustainability efforts efficiency in order to drive attractive risk-adjusted returns and sustainable performance. Shareholders and investors (additional information) Our primary measurement of performance for the Group is return on common equity tier 1 capital (CET1), as regulatory Engagement with environmental, social and governance (ESG) capital is our binding constraint and drives our ability to return rating and research agencies capital to shareholders. We actively engage in dialogue with analysts at rating and  Refer to the “Performance targets and measurement” section of research agencies. The assessment of specialized agencies helps this report for more information to evaluate our sustainability performance and activities, and Shareholder returns provides a useful means for benchmarking. We aim to increase our ordinary dividend per share by USD 0.01 In 2019, we provided detailed information on our each year, and to return excess capital through share sustainability performance to a range of agencies, either repurchases. We consider business conditions and any in response to questionnaires or via meetings or calls (with ESG idiosyncratic developments when determining excess capital analysts). Our Sustainability Report regularly serves as a key available for share repurchases. source of information for these agencies. 34 Employees Our employees drive our success. Our employees work in 50 The keys to a strong corporate culture countries, are citizens of 136 nations and speak more than 150 languages. Their skills, experience and commitment enable us to Our three keys to success remain the foundation of our strategy deliver innovative solutions for our clients, foster sustainable and culture. Together, they define what we stand for as a firm business success, protect our reputation and drive the firm and as individuals, and they drive our business strategy. We set forward. As an employer, we attract, develop and retain a out on our cultural transformation in 2011, defining and then diverse range of talent and aim to ensure there is a workplace embedding our Pillars, Principles and Behaviors into our core culture that supports and engages our employees, enabling people management processes. We conduct regular employee them to build their careers and unlock their full potential. surveys to obtain feedback and ensure continuous improvement, discussing the findings and further actions with our employees. In 2019, responses indicated that employee engagement, appreciation for our talent management practices, and pride in working at UBS were all above the norm for financial services organizations.  Refer to the foldout pages of this report for more information about our Pillars, Principles and Behaviors Engaging and enabling employees, instilling a strong risk culture and promoting sustainability were culture-building priorities in 2019. In this respect, our Group Franchise Awards program provided foundational support. This Group-wide initiative rewards employees for cross-divisional collaboration and operational effectiveness improvements. We are convinced that leadership drives culture, and culture drives performance. Great leaders are the key to developing our people, client relationships and results. For many years, our House View on Leadership has outlined what effective leadership is at UBS, as well as what employees can expect. To help leaders better adapt to continuous change and digitalization, we updated our House View in 2019 and integrated its precepts into all of our core HR processes, including recruitment, performance evaluations, training, succession planning and promotions. Characteristics such as innovation, curiosity and agility complement our long-standing emphasis on inclusivity, sustainable profits, accountability, crossfirm partnership and putting clients first. It is an evolution of how we view leadership that creates an extraordinary experience for our clients and our people. 35 Our strategy, business model and environment (section from the UBS 2019 Annual Report) How we create value for our stakeholders Hiring, developing and retaining talent Along with line manager effectiveness, having a wide range of learning and career development opportunities, as well as We are widely recognized as an employer of choice and a great tools to facilitate professional growth, are key drivers of place to build a career. Key to our success is our long-standing employee engagement. In this respect, our new Career commitment to investing in our employees at every career stage. Navigator tool, which was launched in June 2019, has been a It starts with recruitment, where our philosophy is to hire for game-changer. This online platform enables employees to potential, considering the individual’s experience and explore career paths and search for open roles that match their competencies, learning capabilities and agility, as well as digital interests while allowing our recruiters to find internal talent and data savviness. We hired a total of 10,080 external more easily. It also identifies skill gaps with regard to new roles candidates in 2019. Our junior talent programs hired more than and interests and directly links to learning opportunities to help 1,700 graduate and other trainees, interns and apprentices. We fill these gaps. also continued our insourcing and hiring activities in our We are committed to ensuring a workplace where employees Business Solutions Centers in China, India, Poland, Switzerland are fairly treated, with equal opportunities for all. We do not and the US as part of our integrated workforce strategy. tolerate harassment of any kind. Our global measures include Our in-house UBS University further updated its curriculum in employee and line manager training, specialist expertise in 2019 to emphasize future-skills development and personal handling concerns raised, and a global employee hotline. A growth for all employees, with a new digital skills curriculum Harassment Guardian provides an independent view of the that builds knowledge about topics such as blockchain, cloud firm’s setup, procedures and behaviors to prevent harassment computing, robotics and artificial intelligence. We also launched and sexual misconduct. a mobile learning app to enable employees to learn whenever We pay for performance, and a strong commitment to pay and wherever they want. We revamped our leadership equity is embedded into our compensation policies. We conduct development offering in 2019 to ensure that our leaders have regular internal, as well as independent external, reviews, with the skills they need to develop their businesses and their people, the aim of ensuring that all employees are paid fairly, and we and to lead effectively in the digital transformation age. In 2019, seek to address any unexplained gaps. our permanent employees completed more than 1,100,000  Refer to www.ubs.com/employerawards, learning activities, including mandatory training on compliance, www.ubs.com/careers and the “Compensation” section of this business and other topics. This averaged to more than two report for more information training days per employee. Personnel by region As of % change from Full-time equivalents 31.12.19 31.12.18 31.12.17 31.12.18 Americas 21,036 21,309 20,770 (1) of which: USA 20,232 20,495 19,944 (1) Asia Pacific 13,956 12,119 8,959 15 Europe, Middle East and Africa (excluding Switzerland) 12,918 12,620 11,097 2 of which: UK 5,704 5,782 5,274 (1) of which: rest of Europe (excluding Switzerland) 7,048 6,670 5,662 6 of which: Middle East and Africa 166 168 161 (1) Switzerland 20,691 20,840 20,427 (1) Total1 68,601 66,888 61,253 3 1 The increase in workforce in 2019 and 2018 was mainly due to insourcing initiatives and was more than offset by a decrease in external staff. 36 The importance of diversity and inclusion A widely diverse workforce that reflects the experience of our global clients is important for our long-term success. We therefore strive to shape a diverse and inclusive culture across the firm to drive sustainable growth and innovation, deliver the best of UBS to our clients, and build a better place to work for all employees. Our broad view of diversity encompasses a range of aspects, including gender, ethnicity, LGBTQ, disability, mental health and inclusive leadership. We remain committed to narrowing our gender representation gap, especially at the management level, through a global gender diversity strategy and a wide range of supporting initiatives to hire, promote and retain more women at all levels of the organization. We continue to make progress toward our stated aspiration of increasing the representation of women in management roles to one-third. In 2019, 25.2% of all employees in roles at Director level and above were women, up from 24.7% in 2018. Our UBS Career Comeback program, which was launched in 2016, continues to help us increase our pipeline of female senior leaders. Professionals looking to return to corporate jobs after a career break are hired for permanent roles and supported with specialized onboarding, coaching and mentoring. In 2019, Career Comeback expanded beyond its four established hubs in the US, UK, Switzerland and India to become a global, year-round program. To date, Career Comeback has helped 142 women and 8 men relaunch their careers.  Refer to www.ubs.com/diversity for additional information about our priorities and commitments, and the Sustainability Report 2019, available from 5 March 2020 under “Annual reporting” at www.ubs.com/investors for our management practices and detailed employee data, including genderand region-specific data 37 Our strategy, business model and environment (section from the UBS 2019 Annual Report) How we create value for our stakeholders Employees (additional information) principles and behaviors are being lived up to, how effective our line managers are and whether we are providing a positive and Engaging with our employees empowering work environment. This year, 78% of participating Our employees are key to meeting our clients' needs and our employees indicated high levels of engagement, 79% agreed long-term business success. We therefore invest in our that their line manager(s) are effective, and 81% recognized our employees by providing them with diverse learning positive work environment. All of these results are above the opportunities, fostering internal mobility and creating a financial services industry norm. rewarding work environment. Having regular dialogue with Employees were informed of the Group-wide survey results, employees helps ensure that we understand their needs. as well as divisional, regional and business area results, as Our senior leaders regularly update employees on our applicable. Each year's data is analyzed and leveraged in future business strategy, priorities and policies, as well as people culture-building initiatives, as it is our ongoing ambition to have management topics such as goal setting, compensation, a highly motivated workforce that models integrity, training, internal mobility, career development, new collaboration and challenge in its daily work. We strive to be the technologies, and risk and compliance topics. We use a variety clear employer of choice in the financial services industry and of communication channels and events to ensure our employees maintain overall engagement ratings in the top quartile; both are aligned with our corporate culture and the firm’s ambitions have been achieved in 2019. three keys – the Pillars, Principles and Behaviors. We promote Our employee networks, which are sponsored by business collaboration and efficiency efforts such as our Group Franchise leaders, are foundational to strengthening our culture. They help Awards program, gender representation initiatives like UBS employees build cross-business relationships and support an Career Comeback, and we have an ongoing focus on cultureopen and inclusive workplace. In 2019, we sponsored 43 building topics like inclusive leadership. We also support the employee networks globally, including ones focused on topics global philanthropic projects managed by the UBS Optimus around culture, gender, ethnicity, family, mental health, Foundation. On a regional and divisional basis, we celebrate and Pride / LGBTQ, disability and veterans. Of particular note, our support involvement in our community engagement and disability-focused networks in the US, UK, Switzerland and Asia employee volunteering activities. We interact with employees Pacific raise awareness of visible and invisible disabilities in the through a number of news and information channels such as workplace, as well as our management’s active support for our intranet, UBS Connections (our internal social network), UBS hiring, developing and retaining employees with disabilities TV and a number of other interactive help and information sites. across the firm. Our women's networks in locations around the Direct communication with employees also takes place globe promote personal and professional development through through individual and team meetings, emails, all-staff sessions networking, mentoring and education. and the firm’s Quality Feedback system (see page 29). In 2019, employees in all businesses and regions attended numerous Employee representation town halls and small group meetings to discuss relevant issues As a responsible employer, we maintain an open discourse with directly with senior management. For example, regular “Ask the our formal employee representation groups. We have two panCEO” events allowed all employees globally to learn about (and European forums – the UBS Employee Forum (which is our ask questions on) topics such as the firm’s strategy and European Works Council) and the UBS Europe SE Works direction. These events are attended in person by local Council. These groups represent 17 countries and consider employees and broadcast live (and via replay) on UBS TV. issues that may affect our performance, operations or prospects. Additionally, an Ask the GEB event was held in New York in Local and regional work councils, like the Employee December 2019. Representation Committee in Switzerland, discuss topics such as We want our employees to be engaged and share their views business transfers, pensions, workplace conditions, health and and have ample opportunities to influence the firm’s future. We safety, and redundancies. Collectively, these groups represent therefore regularly survey all our permanent employees to approximately 49% of our global workforce. capture feedback on how we are doing as a firm, and we use  Find out more about topics of interest to employees and that feedback to improve as an organization. As such, in 2019, potential employees at www.ubs.com/employees or all employees were asked to participate in a global survey, and www.ubs.com/careers 83% did. We particularly wanted to know whether our firm’s 38 Managing our global workforce being a point of contact for any UBS employee who may be Our employees’ skills, experience and commitment are key to experiencing a mental health issue or any type of emotional delivering on our business strategy. Our human resources distress. We have also added a variety of new learning strategy therefore seeks to attract, develop and retain employees opportunities focused on health and wellbeing to our UBS who have the diverse backgrounds and capabilities to advise our University offering. clients, develop new products, manage risk and adapt to At UBS, all new parents can take paid time off after the birth evolving business trends and regulations. We invest in our or adoption of a child. Our parental leave policies meet the legal employees, for example, through a comprehensive learning standards in all locations and exceed them in most. For example, platform and career development programs, and we promote in the US, our gender-neutral Child Care Leave policy enables initiatives to build engagement and a cohesive, collaborative the primary caregiver to take up to 20 weeks of paid leave culture. during the period immediately following the birth, adoption or Further increasing the diversity of our workforce and ensuring foster care placement of the employee's (or partner’s) child. In an inclusive workplace is vital to our business success. In our Switzerland, new fathers can take up to 10 days of paid experience, diverse teams better understand and relate to our paternity leave within the first year. In addition, they can either equally diverse clients’ needs. Likewise, diversity of thought, take up to 30 calendar days of unpaid leave or reduce their level opinion and experience helps us make better decisions and of employment to 80% for up to six months. drives innovation, while an inclusive work environment attracts In the US, just as we help our clients, our goal is to also help high-quality people and makes the firm a better place to work. our employees make informed decisions so they can feel Our human resources policies and procedures underscore our confident about their financial situation. That is why we have commitment to a diverse and inclusive workplace, with equal partnered with UBS Financial Wellness and from January 2020, opportunities for all employees and a strong commitment to employees will have access to educational content, digital tools equal pay that is embedded in all our management processes. and licensed Financial Wellness Advisors who can assist and We offer competitive benefits to all employees, including guide them on their unique financial journey. UBS Financial insurance, pension, retirement and personal leave, aligned with Wellness strives to deliver education on a myriad of topics local market practices and focused on employee wellbeing. including budgeting, savings, debt management, insurance These benefits often go beyond legal requirements or market protection, big purchases, life changes, retirement planning, practice, and we regularly review them to ensure they meet our investing basics, estate planning and more. employees’ needs. When it comes to mental wellbeing we We offer redeployment and outplacement initiatives to help enable employees to build their careers while managing personal employees find new roles, and we have clear policies and commitments. A wide range of resources are available to help processes for handling redundancies. As an example, when job employees navigate work-life issues and personal challenges. We losses occur in the Swiss labor market due to restructuring, we support flexible working arrangements including telecommuting, offer affected employees access to our COACH process. This working from home, part-time roles, job sharing and partial process supports employees in finding a new position internally retirement. or externally. Our Employee Assistance Programs offer support and Our Code of Conduct and Ethics is the basis for all human counseling for challenges such as illness, conflict, bereavement, resource policies, guidelines and procedures. It includes a psychological health and elderly care. In the UK, for instance, we commitment to the health and safety of employees and external promoted World Mental Health Day in October with the launch staff. of Mental Health Champions, made up of UBS volunteers  Refer to the Health and Safety statement in the Appendix 1 for accredited with specialist training by Mental Health First Aid more information England. While these volunteers are not therapists or counselors,  Refer to the UBS in society constitutional document in the they are trained to listen, reassure and respond in addition to Appendix 1 for more information 39 Our strategy, business model and environment (section from the UBS 2019 Annual Report) How we create value for our stakeholders Our 2019 workforce at a glance1 – Switzerland was our largest cross-border importer of We report in depth on our global workforce to give stakeholders employees from other countries; China was our largest crossa clear picture of our management philosophy and priorities. border exporter of employees. Our reporting covers key statistics relevant to fulland part-time – 1,125 employees changed business divisions in 2019; 499 employees, as well as relevant data about external staff. Both changed regions. groups rely on us to provide a safe, respectful and collaborative – Employees are asked to record their absences due to illness or workplace. accident in our self-service human resources tool. In 2019, As of 31 December 2019, we had 68,601 employees (fullour global workforce recorded an absentee rate of 1.7% of time equivalents / FTEs), 1,713 FTEs more than in 2018. This total scheduled days. included Swiss apprentices on three-year limited contracts who received benefits equivalent to permanent employees. Our workforce by the numbers A total of 16,408 external staff for core business services To give the most accurate view of our global workforce, human were active at the end of 2019, primarily in technology and resources reporting considers a person (working full time or part operations roles. This included 2,215 FTEs employed through time) as one headcount. This accounts for the total UBS third parties on short-term contracts to fill positions on an employee number of 69,966 as of 31 December 2019 (versus interim basis. Additionally, a total of 11,647 external staff for 68,338 as of 31 December 2018). These numbers exclude staff non-core business services were active at the end of 2019, from UBS Card Center, Hotel Seepark Thun and Wolfsberg. The primarily in premises-related roles. following tables are all reported on this basis, unless otherwise Also of note: specified. The percentages in the tables may not total 100 due – Our workforce in 2019 was 39% female and 61% male; to rounding. 25% of senior managers who reported to GEB members were female. 1 All data was calculated on/as of 31 December 2019, unless otherwise noted. UBS employees: full-time and part-time employees Employees: full time / part time 31.12.19 31.12.18 Number % Number % Male Full Time 41,324 96% 40,298 96% Part Time 1,506 4% 1,473 4% Total 42,830 100% 41,771 100% Female Full Time 23,364 86% 22,800 86% Part Time 3,772 14% 3,767 14% Total 27,136 100% 26,567 100% Grand Total 69,966 68,338 40 UBS employees: permanent and “limited employment period” employees (by gender and by region) Employees: employment term / region 31.12.19 31.12.18 Number % Number % Americas Permanent 21,288 100% 21,563 100% Limited Term 0 0% 0 0% Total 21,288 100% 21,563 100% APAC Permanent 13,944 100% 12,095 100% Limited Term 11 0% 38 0% Total 13,955 100% 12,133 100% EMEA (excluding Switzerland) Permanent 13,259 100% 12,960 100% Limited Term 1 0% 0 0% Total 13,260 100% 12,960 100% Switzerland Permanent 20,296 95% 20,466 94% Limited Term 1,167 5% 1,216 6% Total 21,463 100% 21,682 100% Grand Total 69,966 68,338 Employees: employment term / gender 31.12.19 31.12.18 Number % Number % Male Permanent 42,160 98% 41,050 98% Limited Term 670 2% 721 2% Total 42,830 100% 41,771 100% Female Permanent 26,627 98% 26,034 98% Limited Term 509 2% 533 2% Total 27,136 100% 26,567 100% Grand Total 69,966 68,338 41 Our strategy, business model and environment (section from the UBS 2019 Annual Report) How we create value for our stakeholders UBS employees: external hires External hires by age group 31.12.19 31.12.18 Number % Number % Under 30 4,676 46% 5,723 43% Between 30 and 50 4,985 50% 6,928 52% Over 50 419 4% 598 5% Total external hires 10,080 100% 13,249 100% External hires by gender 31.12.19 31.12.18 Number % Number % Male 6,073 60% 8,143 61% Female 4,007 40% 5,106 39% Total external hires 10,080 100% 13,249 100% External hires by region 31.12.19 31.12.18 Number % Number % Americas 2,328 23% 2,959 22% APAC 3,620 36% 4,207 32% EMEA (excluding Switzerland) 1,998 20% 3,062 23% Switzerland 2,134 21% 3,021 23% Total external hires 10,080 100% 13,249 100% 42 UBS employees: employee turnover Turnover by age group 31.12.19 31.12.18 % % Under 30 19% 18% Between 30 and 50 11% 11% Over 50 10% 9% Overall turnover 12% 12% Turnover by gender 31.12.19 31.12.18 % Male 12% 12% Female 13% 12% Overall turnover 12% 12% Turnover by region 31.12.19 31.12.18 % % Americas 12% 11% APAC 14% 14% EMEA (excluding Switzerland) 13% 13% Switzerland 11% 11% Overall turnover 12% 12% Note: The turnover rate is calculated by dividing the number of employees (in FTE) who left by the average number of employees (in FTE) over the full year period. UBS employees: age group Employees by age group 31.12.19 31.12.18 % % Under 30 19% 20% Between 30 and 50 60% 59% Over 50 21% 21% Total 100% 100% 43 Our strategy, business model and environment (section from the UBS 2019 Annual Report) How we create value for our stakeholders UBS employees: employee category (rank group) Distribution by employee category and gender 31.12.19 31.12.18 Number % Number % Officers (Director and above) Male 18,425 75% 18,513 75% Female 6,223 25% 6,079 25% Total 24,648 100% 24,592 100% Officers (other officers) Male 16,447 61% 15,464 61% Female 10,583 39% 10,060 39% Total 27,030 100% 25,524 100% Employee rank Male 7,958 44% 7,794 43% Female 10,330 56% 10,428 57% Total 18,288 100% 18,222 100% Grand Total 69,966 68,338 Distribution by employee category and age group 31.12.19 31.12.18 Number % Number % Officers (Director and above) Under 30 143 1% 126 1% Between 30 and 50 16,402 67% 16,774 68% Over 50 8,103 33% 7,692 31% Total 24,648 100% 24,592 100% Officers (other officers) Under 30 4,075 15% 3,951 15% Between 30 and 50 18,801 70% 17,507 69% Over 50 4,154 15% 4,066 16% Total 27,030 100% 25,524 100% Employee rank Under 30 9,287 51% 9,253 51% Between 30 and 50 6,369 35% 6,231 34% Over 50 2,632 14% 2,738 15% Total 18,288 100% 18,222 100% Grand Total 69,966 68,338 44 UBS employees: average training days (gender) Training by gender Average training days 31.12.19 31.12.18 Female 2.16 1.83 Male 2.12 1.71 Total average training days 2.14 1.76 UBS employees: average training days (rank group) Training by rank group Average training days 31.12.19 31.12.18 Officers (Director and above) 2.36 1.88 Officers (other officers) 2.02 1.61 Employee rank 2.01 1.80 Total average training days 2.14 1.76 Note: Employee development activities include on-the-job experience and internal mobility (changing roles within the firm), exposure to senior leaders, new teams and experiences (e.g., through networking and mentoring) and education (both voluntary and required). Experience and exposure generally account for approximately 90% of an employee’s development activities. It is also important to note that in 2018 and 2019, our in-house university revamped its offering to better prepare for future global trends and enable employees to choose the depth of learning to meet their voluntary learning goals based on their needs. We also increased the efficiency of mandatory trainings in both 2018 and 2019. UBS employees: parental leave taken Parental leave taken (by gender) 2019 2018 Male 2,557 2,196 Female 3,439 2,951 Total number of employees 5,996 5,147 All employees are entitled to take parental leave as indicated in the respective local human resources policies. This table shows number of employees who took parental leave as recorded in the UBS HRi system; data aggregation is subject to limitations such as the disparate definitions and permutations of parental leave across the firm and the various leave and absence tools used in the 50+ countries in which we operate. 45 Our strategy, business model and environment (section from the UBS 2019 Annual Report) How we create value for our stakeholders Society As expressed in the 17 United Nations Sustainable Development client and supplier relationships, our environmental footprint, Goals (the SDGs), the world faces enormous societal and human resources, and community investment. It is through this environmental challenges. We recognize that it is important to cross-divisional organization that we leverage our expertise across understand these challenges, as well as the opportunities arising all of these areas to drive sustainable performance. UBS in society from them, to consider their relevance to UBS and to identify is committed to making UBS a force for driving positive change in potential actions our firm may need to take. society and the environment. As the world’s largest truly global wealth manager, we have a The activities driven by UBS in society are overseen, at the responsibility to take a leading role in shaping a positive future, highest level of our firm, by our Board of Directors’ Corporate for everyone, including the generations to come. Culture and Responsibility Committee (the CCRC). The Group CEO supervises the execution of the UBS in society strategy and Code of Conduct and Ethics annual objectives and informs the Group Executive Board and CCRC about UBS in society updates as appropriate. Reporting to In our Code of Conduct and Ethics (the Code), the Board of the Group CEO, the Head UBS in society is UBS’s senior-level Directors and the Group Executive Board set out the principles representative for sustainability issues and, on behalf of the and practices that define our ethical standards and the way we Group CEO, proposes the UBS in society strategy and annual do business. These principles apply to all aspects of our business. objectives to the CCRC for approval. All employees must confirm annually that they have read and  Refer to “Board of Directors” in the “Corporate governance” will adhere to the Code and other key policies, supporting a section of this report for more information about the CCRC culture where ethical and responsible behavior is part of our everyday operations. Driving change in finance In the Code, we make a commitment to integrating financial As a major financial institution, we are conscious that the and societal performance for the mutual benefit of our clients activities and decisions of our clients can have a substantial and our firm – and that we are constantly looking for better impact on society. It is for that reason that we strive to ways to do business in an environmentally sound and socially incorporate environmental, social and governance (ESG) impacts responsible manner. into the products and services we provide to clients and partner  Refer to the Code of Conduct and Ethics of UBS, available at with them to help mobilize capital toward the achievement of www.ubs.com/code, for more information the SDGs and the orderly transition to a low-carbon economy. We know that ESG topics are increasingly important to our Engaging with society clients. That is why we have dedicated a separate section in this report to highlight our commitment to serving the growing We engage with representatives of wider society on a regular sustainable finance needs and expectations of our clients, and to basis and on a wide range of topics. This engagement yields the key activities associated with our commitment. important information about society’s expectations and concerns  Refer to “Our focus on ESG” in this section for more information and makes a critical contribution to our understanding and management of issues with potential (positive and negative) Driving change in philanthropy relevance to our firm – and to society. By actively fostering such We believe our clients can make a meaningful, and measurable, interactions, we are in a position to address expectations and difference for their chosen causes with advice from our concerns in an informed and effective manner. philanthropy experts and the more than 200 global programs that have been carefully selected through our UBS Optimus UBS in society Foundation. We increase social impact by combining our expertise with capital and networks. Through our Philanthropy UBS in society is a dedicated organization within the firm, Services platform, we offer clients unique access to social and focused on maximizing our positive effect and minimizing any financial innovation and philanthropic advice, as well as tailored negative effects UBS has on society and the environment. It program design, co-funding and co-development opportunities. covers all of the activities and capabilities related to sustainable  Refer to www.ubs.com/optimus for more information finance (including sustainable investing), philanthropy, environmental, climate and human rights policies governing 46 Driving change in communities We recognize that our firm’s long-term success depends on the health and prosperity of the communities of which we are a part. We seek to redress disadvantages through long-term investments in education and entrepreneurship. We provide strategic financial commitments and targeted employee volunteering to drive impact across a number of the SDGs.  Refer to the “Driving change in communities” section in the Sustainability Report 2019, available from 5 March 2020 under “Annual reporting” at www.ubs.com/investors for more information Driving change in business We view the proper, firm-wide management of our firm’s own environmental footprint and our supply chain as important proof of how we do business in a sustainable manner for the benefit of society. This is equally true of our comprehensive environmental and social risk management and framework that governs client and vendor relationships and is applied firm-wide to all activities. We have set environmental and social risk standards pertaining to environmental and human rights topics in product development, investments, financing and supply chain management. We have identified certain controversial activities that we will not engage in at all, or only under stringent criteria. As part of this process, we engage with clients and vendors to better understand their processes and policies, and to explore how any environmental and social risks may be mitigated. We have set ambitious targets relating to our use of energy, water and paper, as well as to our travel and the amount of waste we produce, and we aim to increase the awareness of environmental and social matters among our employees and Reporting to our stakeholders on our sustainability foster a long-term sustainable mindset in all our activities. In strategy and activities 2019, the year in which we celebrated 20 years since becoming the first bank to gain global environmental management system Information about all our sustainability efforts and commitments certification (ISO 14001), we ran major campaigns on key is provided in the UBS Sustainability Report,1 available under environmental themes. “Annual reporting” at www.ubs.com/investors. The content of Our campaigns demonstrate our strong commitment to the Sustainability Report has been prepared in accordance with reducing UBS’s environmental footprint and further raising our the Global Reporting Initiative (GRI) Standards (“comprehensive” employees’ awareness of key environmental challenges. The option) and with the German rules implementing the EU “Go drastic. Cut the plastic.” global campaign, which was directive on disclosure of non-financial and diversity information launched in July 2019, aims at encouraging behavioral change (2014/95/EU). Our reporting on sustainability has been reviewed to help tackle, reduce and phase out single-use plastic items on a limited assurance basis by Ernst & Young Ltd against the across our firm. In October, we held our first Zero Waste Day at GRI Standards. Our Sustainability Report 2019 also includes our 22 sites across the globe, which featured numerous full climate disclosure, which we have been aligning with the sustainability-themed activities. Additionally, at five major offices recommendations provided by the Financial Stability Board’s across the globe, we hosted events featuring subject matter Task Force on Climate-related Financial Disclosures since their experts talking about their life’s work and passion, including introduction in 2017. speakers from innovative companies.  Refer to the Sustainability Report 2019, available from 5 March 2020 under “Annual reporting” at www.ubs.com/investors, for full descriptions of our environmental management, our responsible supply chain management and our environmental and social risk management and framework 1 The UBS Sustainability Report is available from 5 March 2020, and is not deemed incorporated by reference into the SEC Form 20-F filing. 47 Our strategy, business model and environment (section from the UBS 2019 Annual Report) How we create value for our stakeholders Aims and progress We work with a long-term focus on providing appropriate returns to all of our stakeholders in a responsible manner. To underline our commitment, we provide transparent goals and report on progress made against them wherever possible. In 2019, we made good progress in delivering against the Group’s aims. We aim to be / Our key goals1 Our progress A leader in sustainable finance across all client segments 2017–2020 – Double the penetration of core SI assets from 5.6% (USD 182 billion) of – Achieved our goal one year early, reaching USD 488.5 billion in core SI total invested assets2 assets representing 13.5% of total invested assets2,3 2016–2021 – Direct at least USD 5 billion of client assets into SDG-related impact – USD 3.9 billion of client assets directed into SDG-related impact investments investments4 A recognized innovator and thought leader in philanthropy 2017–2020 – Achieve 40% of employees volunteering with 40% of volunteer hours – 38% of global workforce volunteered and 48% of volunteer hours being skills based were skills based5 – Increase donations to UBS Optimus Foundation to – UBS Optimus Foundation: USD 89.5 million (CHF 86.9 million) in CHF 100 million in 2020 donations raised; USD 109.5 million (CHF 106.3 million) in grants approved 2020–2025 – Support 1 million young people and adults (“beneficiaries”) to learn and – Progress against these goals will be reported for the financial year 2020 develop skills for employment, decent jobs and entrepreneurship onward through our community investment activities – Improve the lives of 5 million children globally by engaging at least 1,000 clients in UBS Optimus Foundation’s collective giving platforms An industry leader in sustainable business practices – Retain favorable positions in key ESG ratings – Maintained leadership position (Dow Jones Sustainability Indices / DJSI) – AA rating maintained (MSCI ESG Research) – Industry leader rank maintained (Sustainalytics) – A– rating and included in Leadership band (CDP) 2017–2022 – Implement the recommendations of the Task Force on – First TCFD reporting introduced for the financial year 2017, continuous Climate-related Financial Disclosures (TCFD) improvements ever since 2019–2024 – Implement the requirements of the – Among the founding signatories of the PRB (September 2019) Principles for Responsible Banking (PRB) An employer of choice – Being recognized as one of the world’s most attractive employers in key – Included in Global Universum ranking of Top 50 World’s Most Attractive ratings and rankings Employers – Peer-leading position in human resources elements of DJSI – Score above financial services norm in employee engagement and work environment (based on employee survey results) – Recognized by Bloomberg Gender-Equality Index 1 Refer to the UBS in society constitutional document (in the Sustainability Report 2019) for more information about all aims. Goals are to be achieved by the end of the target year. 2 Core SI are SI products that involve a strict and diligent asset selection process through either exclusions (of companies / sectors from the portfolio where the companies are not aligned to an investor’s values) or positive selections (such as bestin-class, thematic or ESG integration and impact investing). Refer to the “Core sustainable investments” table in “Our focus on ESG” in this section. 3 The increase in core SI assets was mainly driven by the ESG integration strategy of Asset Management. Refer to the “Core sustainable investments” table in “Our focus on ESG” in this section. 4 Strategies where the investment has the intention of generating measurable environmental and social impact alongside a financial return. 5 Refer to the “Driving change in communities” section in the Sustainability Report 2019. 48 Stakeholder relations (additional information) total of CHF 1 million to political parties in 2019 as a contribution to their operational costs. Financial contributions Governments and regulators are calculated based on the number of parliamentary seats the Financial market stability is largely dependent on the overall respective party holds at the federal and cantonal level. Swiss economic, regulatory and political environment and the conduct parties are eligible to apply for a financial contribution if they of the firms within the sector. We actively participate in political commit to free competition, the market economy and to the discussions to share our expertise on proposed regulatory and Swiss financial center. They should also have a national focus supervisory changes. The regime set out by the post-2008 and either form a parliamentary group in the federal parliament regulatory reform agenda is now largely completed with focus or be represented in at least one cantonal government. We view shifting to final national implementation of key prudential rules our contribution to political parties in Switzerland as a long-term such as the Basel III standards. commitment, which is, however, subject to regular reviews. With regard to corporate responsibility and sustainability issues, we actively participated in governmental discussions Annual political forum for employees who hold elected public concerning the implementation of commitments made at the office in Switzerland Paris Climate Change Conference and in the United Nations We expressly support the political involvement of our employees. Sustainable Development Goals. In addition, we contribute to About 250 employees currently hold political office at the the Task Force on Climate-related Financial Disclosures federal, cantonal and local level. If necessary, employees may (TCFD). On a regional basis, we contribute to various fora to spend a certain amount of their working time on their public engage with policymakers on the European Commission’s duties. We organize an annual political forum at which senior Sustainable Finance Action Plan. In our home country management and political office holders discuss topics of Switzerland, we continue to actively contribute to pertinent relevance to UBS in Switzerland. sustainability discussions with various government bodies. We  Refer to www.ubs.com/gov for more information on also contribute our experience and knowledge to supervisors governmental topics pertaining to Switzerland in their efforts to further thinking on new topics, such as the appropriate regulatory environment for digital finance and Peers the financial risks of climate change. We actively engage in regular discussions on corporate  Refer to UBS’s quarterly reports and annual reports available at responsibility and sustainability issues with specialists in peer www.ubs.com/investors for more information on regulatory banks, and more widely through trade bodies and associations. topics Sharing experiences and assessments of corporate responsibility and sustainability issues helps us to compare and improve our Politicians and political parties strategy, approach and tools. We maintain a regular dialogue with politicians globally and We are a founding member of the Wolfsberg Group, an strive to establish long-term relationships with political association of global banks that aims to develop financial representatives. services industry standards regarding anti-money laundering, We comply with legal requirements on disclosing political Know Your Client and counter-terrorist financing policies. donations, as applicable in the relevant jurisdictions. Outside of Meeting regularly, the Wolfsberg Group also works closely with Switzerland, we do not provide financial support to political the Financial Action Task Force. parties. In the US, eligible employees may make financial With regards to climate risk, UBS is cooperating on two contributions through a federal Political Action Committee fronts. Firstly, we are part of the United Nations Environment (PAC), the UBS Americas Fund for Better Government. The PAC Programme Finance Initiative (UNEP FI) TCFD working group for makes contributions to federal candidates. These employee banks to refine methodologies, scenarios and data sources to contributions do not constitute political donations by UBS. assess climate-related financial risk in loan portfolios and secondly, we are pilot-testing the Paris Agreement Capital Support of the Swiss militia system Transition Assessment (PACTA) to shape the development of Swiss citizens actively and voluntarily engage in political methodologies and study the alignment of corporate lending institutions at all three levels of the Swiss state (federal, cantonal portfolios with the Paris Agreement benchmarks. and local) as public officials (e.g., members of parliament, In 2011, we were a driving force behind the establishment of members of commissions and executive mandates), while they the Thun Group of Banks. The group has published two papers continue to pursue other professional activities. This that propose a framework to help identify key challenges and arrangement – citizens taking on public tasks and mandates on best practice examples for the banking sector’s implementation a part-time basis – is referred to as the militia system. of the UN Guiding Principles on Business and Human Rights. The In this system, members of parliament in Switzerland are Thun Group maintains regular discussions, both in calls and in (usually) not professional politicians and political parties do not annual meetings at the UBS Conference Center in Thun, receive state funding. It is for this reason that we view the Switzerland. support of the militia system as a crucial component of our societal responsibility in our home market. In recognition of the vital function of Switzerland’s political parties, we provided a 49 Our strategy, business model and environment (section from the UBS 2019 Annual Report) How we create value for our stakeholders Communities assessing and monitoring vendor practices in the areas of human At UBS, we recognize that our long-term success depends on and labor rights, environmental protection and anti-corruption. the health and prosperity of the communities that we are a part A central component of this guideline is the UBS Responsible of. Our approach is to build sustainable and successful Supply Chain Standard, to which our direct vendors are normally partnerships with non-profit organizations and social enterprises bound by contract. We expect our vendors to apply these same to help our contributions have a lasting impact. Our Community standards to relationships with their vendors. Affairs programs seek to overcome disadvantage through long Refer to “Responsible supply chain management“ in the term investment in education and entrepreneurship in the “Driving change in business” section for more information communities within which we operate. Through local execution and partnerships, which operate Non-governmental organizations under a global framework and with coordination across regions, We regularly interact with non-governmental organizations we endeavor to deliver business and community impact by (NGOs) and appreciate their input and insight, as it helps us identifying innovative and high-quality programs that are aligned consider our approach to, and understanding of, societal issues to the business. We provide focused financial and human and concerns. support, including skills-based employee volunteering programs NGOs have long established themselves as critical watchdogs and client participation where appropriate. We are an active of companies, both scrutinizing and challenging how we address member of the London Benchmarking Group, an internationally a broad range of environmental, social and human rights recognized standard for measuring corporate community concerns. In 2019, discussions with NGOs were particularly investment. focused on climate change (notably on fossil fuels). Other topics  Refer to the “Driving change in communities“ section for discussed included sustainable finance and human rights. further information and data of relevance to the communities we do business in Media Our media teams maintain direct and long-term relations with Vendors media representatives across all our business regions and provide In 2019, we spent USD 9.01 billion on a broad range of them with timely information on a wide range of global, products and services. A large proportion of this expenditure regional and local topics. Senior management (at the Board of comprises real estate, outsourcing, IT as well as consultancy and Directors and Group Executive Board level) also regularly provide legal fees. Our sourcing and procurement services are provided accounts to journalists, predominantly through interviews. In by an external company, Chain IQ, which applies our responsible addition to interviews at our corporate events (i.e., via quarterly supply chain management (RSCM) framework and processes. and annual reporting and at the Annual General Meeting), The experienced procurement and sourcing specialists at Chain senior management conducted many other interviews in 2019. IQ perform vendor due diligence and establish remediation We also communicated with media representatives – through measures, supported by a centralized team of experts within interviews or background talks – on a broad range of corporate UBS. responsibility and sustainability topics such as climate change, We aim to ensure that our social and environmental values human rights and environmental and social risks in general. are being followed throughout the supply chain. A firm-wide  Refer to www.ubs.com/media for further information on UBS RSCM guideline provides systematic assistance on identifying, media relations 50 Our governance and principles Our firm’s societal and corporate culture activities are overseen monitoring and analysis of societal topics of potential relevance at the highest level of our firm and are founded in our Principles to UBS. This process is the responsibility of a committee at and Behaviors. Group Executive Board-level, the Global Environmental and Social Risk (ESR) Committee, which sets the overall risk appetite Sustainability governance for the firm and resolves transactional and policy matters relating to environmental and social risks and their associated The Board of Directors (the BoD) of UBS Group AG decides on reputation risks. It is chaired by the Group Chief Risk Officer, the strategy of the Group upon recommendation by the Group who is responsible for the development and implementation of Chief Executive Officer (the Group CEO) and is responsible for principles and appropriate independent control frameworks for the overall direction, supervision and control of the Group and environmental and social risks within UBS. its management, as well as for supervising compliance with The GEB oversees our efforts to combat money laundering, applicable laws, rules and regulations. The BoD exercises corruption and terrorist financing. These efforts are led by a oversight over UBS Group AG and its subsidiaries and is dedicated financial crime team of anti-money laundering responsible for establishing a clear Group governance compliance experts. The GEB also oversees our approach to framework to provide effective steering and supervision of the diversity and inclusion. Our global head of diversity and inclusion Group, taking into account the material risks to which UBS drives a group-wide strategy complemented by divisional and Group AG and its subsidiaries are exposed. The BoD has ultimate regional initiatives. responsibility for the success of the Group and for delivering  Refer to the “Sustainability governance” graph below sustainable shareholder value within a framework of prudent  Refer to the Appendix 1 for the CCRC charter and the ESR and effective controls. policy framework The BoD of UBS Group AG is responsible for setting our firm’s values and standards to ensure that the Group’s Key policies and guidelines obligations to our stakeholders are met. Both the Chairman of the BoD and the Group CEO play a key role in safeguarding our Code of Conduct and Ethics reputation and ensuring we communicate effectively with all our The Code of Conduct and Ethics of UBS (the Code) sets out the stakeholders. principles and practices that UBS expects all of its employees and All BoD committees have responsibilities and authorities of directors to follow both in form and intention. The principles direct relevance to our goal of creating sustainable value. The and standards set out in the Code should characterize all of Governance and Nominating Committee, for instance, supports UBS’s business activities and all its dealings with the firm’s the BoD in fulfilling its duty to establish best practices in stakeholders including clients, colleagues, shareholders, corporate governance across the UBS Group. The Compensation regulators and business partners. It is the basis for all UBS Committee supports the BoD in its duties to set guidelines on policies, guidelines and statements relating to each of the firm’s compensation and benefits. The Risk Committee oversees and employees’ personal commitment to appropriate and supports the BoD in fulfilling its duty to supervise and set an responsible corporate behavior. appropriate risk management and control framework (in the  Refer to www.ubs.com/code and the Appendix1 of this areas of risk management and control, treasury and capital document for the full text of the Code management, as well as balance sheet management). The Corporate Culture and Responsibility Committee (CCRC) UBS in society constitutional document is the body primarily responsible for corporate culture, It is our goal to be the financial provider of choice for clients responsibility and sustainability. The oversight role of the CCRC wishing to mobilize capital towards the SDGs and the orderly has been embedded in the Organization Regulations of UBS transition to a low-carbon economy (the Paris Agreement). The Group AG. UBS in society constitutional document defines the principles In view of the many environmental and social challenges and responsibilities for promoting this commitment globally, as encompassed by the Sustainable Development Goals systematically across all relevant businesses and for (SDGs), these topics will continue to increase in relevance for implementing the ethical standards defined in the Code that banks. These developments therefore require regular and critical govern UBS’s interaction with society and the environment. assessment of our policies and practices, based on an accurate  Refer to the Appendix 1 for the full text of the UBS in society constitutional document 51 Our governance and principles Policies to combat financial crime As set out in the Code, employees are required to We have developed policies intended to prevent, detect and immediately report any potential violations of the Code to their report money laundering, corruption and terrorist financing. line manager or local compliance officer. Employees may also These policies seek to protect the firm and our reputation from report them confidentially to their Legal or Compliance teams, those who may be intending to use UBS to legitimize illicit or using our whistleblowing procedures. UBS prohibits assets. retaliation against employees for reporting a concern that they At UBS, we apply a risk-based approach and have a reasonably believe constitute a breach or violation of this kind. framework in place to identify and manage potential money  Refer to “Risk management and control” in the “Risk, treasury laundering risks associated with customers and transactions. and capital management“ section of the UBS Annual Report With our systematic assessment of money laundering risks we 2019 for more information strive to arrive at the appropriate level of initial and ongoing due diligence and monitoring of transactions throughout the course Human Resources policies of a relationship. For certain higher risk clients, face-to-face due Human Resources has global and country-specific policies diligence requirements are mandatory. Our anti-money designed to ensure effective management practices, a strong laundering (AML) policy sets out the processes and risk criteria culture and a safe and respectful working environment. An pertaining to politically exposed persons (PEPs). Global PEP overarching global employment policy sets the minimum hiring clients are reviewed and reapproved on an annual basis by the and employment standards for all UBS locations. It provides fair, responsible member of each divisional Executive Committee. consistent and transparent treatment for our employees while Our Code focuses on preventing the misuse of the financial taking into account local legal requirements, market best system, including in relation to bribery. The specific antipractices and shareholders’ interests. This policy is supplemented corruption standards of conduct that apply to all employees are by Employee Handbooks providing local information and also set out in the Group Policy Against Corruption. The policy clarification. Along with the individual employment contract / sets out our zero-tolerance stance toward corruption and offer letter, Employee Handbooks are the primary source of prohibits all forms of bribery by the firm and our employees, information for employees on the terms and conditions of including facilitation payments. employment and human resources programs, policies and Anti-corruption policies and procedures that aim to prevent procedures applicable to them. bribery occurring throughout our operations apply to all business divisions. These policies are derived from the standards set out in UBS policies and principles pertaining to (political, charitable, the Group Policy Against Corruption and the Group Policy on sponsorship) contributions Gifts and Business Entertainment. UBS has in place appropriate policies on political donations,  Refer to the “Driving change in business” section for more which set out the principles (including by referencing UBS’s antiinformation about how we are combating financial crime corruption standards) and approval processes for corporate political donations made on behalf of UBS or its entities and Grievances and whistleblowing protection, policies and their respective approval processes. procedures UBS’s community interaction (i.e., charitable contributions We strive to maintaining high legal, regulatory and ethical and employee volunteering) is guided by a global policy, which standards. We have longstanding procedures in every region to governs the responsibilities for Community Affairs activities help us resolve employee grievances, and employees are strongly within UBS and represents the official guidelines for all encouraged to speak with their line manager or HR about any employees to follow. It defines the governance, principles, concerns. responsibilities, focus themes, criteria (including on antiOur global whistleblowing policy and procedures offer corruption and anti-bribery), financial planning framework as multiple channels (including a whistleblowing and sexual well as due diligence requirements applicable to all Community misconduct hotline) for staff to raise concerns about any Affairs activities and all financial contributions to non-profit suspected breaches of laws, regulations, rules or other legal organizations and social enterprises made by UBS. requirements, sexual misconduct or harassment, or any Our sponsorship activities are guided by a group-wide infringement of our Code, policies or professional standards. governance document which describes how the UBS policy on They may raise concerns openly or anonymously. brand & marketing should be implemented in sponsorship and Our policies do not tolerate harassment of any kind, including events. The document clarifies roles and responsibilities sexual harassment, and our whistleblowing policies, procedures, (including as regards anti-corruption and anti-bribery), describes employee education and awareness materials specifically ways of working and is intended to ensure effective and efficient encourage employees to raise concerns. cooperation among the various stakeholders. 52 Sustainability governance 53 Our governance and principles Our climate strategy – taking action towards a low-carbon future Climate action – a snapshot Nearly five years have passed since the adoption of the Paris Agreement on Climate Change (the Paris Agreement). Collective progress towards achieving the goals of the Paris Agreement will be assessed in a global stocktake in 2023, acknowledging the 2 °C benchmark and the more recent 1.5 °C limit in global warming urged by the Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change (IPCC) in its 2018 special report. Achieving the Paris Agreement goals demands unprecedented levels of investment. In terms of the current state of climate action, there is a recognized climate finance gap as well as a Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs) investment gap – to meet the low-carbon transition targets. At the same time, we see a clear investor appetite for directing capital toward a low-carbon future. To support in scaling up collective action, UBS assists private and institutional clients in their desire to invest in accordance with their social and environmental objectives, thus helping to close the gap. We aspire to drive positive change in society and the We publicly support international, collaborative action against environment for future generations. Our climate strategy climate change. Our Chairman is a signatory to the European underlines our commitment to the SDGs on climate action and Financial Services Round Table’s statement in support of a on affordable and clean energy as well as the Paris Agreement. strong, ambitious response to climate change. Our Group CEO is These key UBS commitments are embedded in the United a member of the Alliance of CEO Climate Leaders, an informal Nations (UN)-backed Principles for Responsible Banking (PRB). network of CEOs convened by the World Economic Forum and This global framework specifies the role of banks in supporting a committed to climate action. Our Head Sustainable Equity Team sustainable future and scaling up their contribution to the within UBS Asset Management (AM) is a member of the TCFD. achievement of both the SDGs and the Paris Agreement. UBS Our climate-related achievements have been recognized by became a founding signatory of the PRB in September 2019. external experts. For the fifth year running, UBS has been named We regularly report on the implementation of our climate the best performer in the Diversified Financial Services and strategy and follow the recommendations provided by the Capital Markets Industry of the Dow Jones Sustainability Indices Financial Stability Board’s Task Force on Climate-related Financial (DJSI), the most widely recognized corporate sustainability Disclosures (TCFD). The recommendations call on companies to rating. CDP, which runs a global disclosure system that enables disclose the impacts of climate change on their businesses. This companies, cities, states and regions to measure and manage will allow investors and financial institutions to make better their environmental impacts, has awarded UBS with Leadership investment decisions with a common set of data to assess the status and a Arating on climate change. In 2019, ShareAction, climate-related risks and opportunities of specific companies. We an international organization focused on advancing responsible are committed to aligning our climate disclosure within the fiveinvestment, awarded UBS as the best performing asset manager year pathway outlined by the TCFD (until end of 2022) and to in climate proxy voting in its report, Voting matters – Are asset collaborating within the industry to close gaps. managers using their proxy votes for climate action? Climate-related highlights – Our climate strategy underlines our commitment to the SDGs on climate action and on affordable and clean energy and supports an orderly transition to a low-carbon economy, as defined by the Paris Agreement. – Our exposure to carbon-related assets on our banking balance sheet is low, at 0.8% or USD 1.9 billion as of 31 December 2019, decreasing further from 1.6% at the end of 2018 and 2.8% at the end of 2017. – Our climate-related sustainable investments increased to USD 108 billion in 2019 from USD 87.5 billion in 2018. – We actively engaged on climate topics with 50 oil & gas and utilities companies, and voted on 44 climate-related shareholder resolutions. – We reduced our firm’s greenhouse gas (GHG) footprint by 71% by 2019 compared with 2004 levels. We were awarded top ratings and rankings by external experts; climate industry group leader (Dow Jones Sustainability Indices); Climate Arating (CDP) and best performing asset manager in proxy voting (ShareAction, 2019). 54 Climate governance – Protecting our own assets: We seek to protect our assets by limiting our risk appetite for carbon-related assets and by As embedded in the Organization Regulations of UBS Group estimating our firm’s vulnerability to climate-related risks AG, the Board of Directors’ (BoD) Corporate Culture and using scenario-based stress testing approaches and other Responsibility Committee (CCRC) oversees our climate strategy. forward-looking portfolio analyses. We have reduced carbonWithin the parameters set by the CCRC, the UBS in society related assets on our balance sheet to 0.8% or USD 1.9 Steering Committee ensures firm-wide execution of the climate billion as of 31 December 2019, down from 1.6% at the end strategy while our firm’s climate-related risk appetite is set by of 2018 and 2.8% at the end of 2017. the Global Environmental & Social Risk (ESR) Committee. In joint – Protecting our clients’ assets: We support our clients’ efforts meetings, the CCRC and the BoD’s Risk Committee regularly to assess, manage and protect them from climate-related and critically review the assessments and steps taken by these risks by offering innovative products and services in management bodies towards executing our climate strategy. The investment, financing and research. We actively engage on CCRC approves UBS’s annual climate-related objectives and climate topics with companies that we invest in; AM has oversees the progressive alignment of our climate disclosure implemented an engagement program with 50 companies with the TCFD recommendations. These annual plans and from oil and gas and utilities sectors and we voted on 44 objectives are managed as part of our ISO 14001-certified climate-related shareholder resolutions during 2019. environmental management system (EMS) with defined – Mobilizing private and institutional capital: We mobilize management accountabilities across the firm. The EMS helps us private and institutional capital towards investments to systematically reduce environmental risks, seize market facilitating climate change mitigation and adaptation and in opportunities and continuously improve our environmental and supporting the transition to a low-carbon economy as climate performance and resource efficiency. corporate advisor, and/or with our lending capacity. In 2019,  Refer to the ”Sustainability governance” graph in this section our climate-related sustainable investments rose to USD 108 billion from USD 87.5 billion at the end of 2018, and the deal Climate strategy value in equity and debt capital market services, and in financial advisory services, related to climate change As one of the world’s largest managers of private and mitigation and adaptation, rose to USD 87.2 billion, from institutional wealth, we play an active role in shaping a USD 56.5 billion in 2018. sustainable future. As with the SDGs, we aim to be a leading – Reducing our direct climate impact: We continue to reduce financial provider in enabling investors to mobilize private and our greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions and increase the firm’s institutional capital to climate change mitigation and adaptation share in renewable energy. We have committed to using while supporting the transition to a low-carbon economy. At 100% renewable electricity by mid-2020. This will reduce our UBS we see a clear investor appetite for directing capital in firm’s GHG footprint by 75% compared with 2004 levels. At climate solutions. We address this by continuously developing the end of 2019, we had reduced our GHG emissions by our offering in sustainable finance and actively engaging with 71% compared to baseline year 2004. clients. Our climate strategy supports our clients and our firm  Refer to “ “Our focus on ESG” in the “How we create value for preparing for success in an increasingly carbon-constrained our stakeholders” section for more information about our world. sustainable investments We support this goal through our innovative financial product  Refer to “In-house environmental management“ in the “Driving offering and advisory, as well as through embedding climate risk change in business” section for more information in our firm-wide risk management framework and in our own operations. Our climate strategy focuses on four pillars: 55 Our governance and principles Climate risk management transactions or suppliers potentially in breach of our standards or otherwise subject to significant environmental and human rights The physical and transition risks of climate change contribute to controversies, including climate change. a structural change affecting banks and the financial sector at In 2019, we embedded climate risk into our risk taxonomy large. In order to protect our own and our clients’ assets from and operational risk appetite statement, further reduced our climate-related risks, we continue to drive the integration of exposure to carbon-related assets and, more broadly, to climateclimate-related risk into our standard risk management sensitive sectors. We also refined our ability to estimate the framework. This framework involves procedures and tools for firm’s vulnerability to climate-related risks using forward-looking identifying, assessing and monitoring environmental and social scenario-based approaches, and revised our standards in the risks in our standard risk, compliance and operations processes. energy and utilities sectors. These include client onboarding, transaction due diligence,  Refer to the ”Climate-related standards in the energy and product development and investment decision processes, own utilities sectors” table below operations, supply chain management and portfolio reviews.  Refer to ”Scenario analysis” further below These processes are geared toward identifying clients, 1 Greenfield means a new mine / well or an expansion of an existing mine / well which results in a material increase in existing production capacity. 56 Scenario analysis balance sheet stress testing (across the firm), as well as targeted, We have been using scenario-based approaches since 2014 to bottom-up analysis of specific sector exposures in short, mid-, assess our exposure to physical and transition risks associated and long-term horizons. The table below summarizes the UBS with climate change. We have performed both top-down scenario assessments performed to date. 1 International Energy Agency (IEA), World Energy Outlook 2 Beyond 2 Degrees Scenario 3 Sustainable Development Scenario 4 New Policies Scenario 5 Current Policies Scenario Our initial (2014) top-down approach consisted of a scenarioassess impacts of a long-term low fossil fuel price scenario based stress test to assess UBS’s balance sheet vulnerability resulting from policies promoting greater use of renewables, across the firm. Leveraging our existing firm-wide top-down enhancing efficiency standards and limiting emissions. We stress testing methodology, we developed a climate change calculated the impact this scenario would have on company scenario (which assumes that severe weather events result in probability of default and aggregated company-level results at governments around the world agreeing to implement carbon the portfolio level to assess changes to expected loss. We also pricing mechanisms to assess the impact on financial assets, assessed the vulnerability of loan portfolios secured by real operational income and physical assets). The scenario anticipated estate in Switzerland and the US to physical risk by mapping the that these mechanisms will prompt a shift away from coal and location of collateral in over 6,000 postal code areas against other fossil fuels to cleaner alternatives and adversely impact Swiss Re’s CatNet tool, which aggregates a large dataset of markets and gross domestic product. Our subsequent (2015) observed natural hazards such as wildfire, river and pluvial bottom-up analyses of oil and gas utilities as well as electric flooding and tropical cyclones. utilities loan portfolios consisted of a forward-looking analysis to 57 Our governance and principles From both top-down and bottom-up approaches, our internal insurance where we have relevant exposures to such sectors stress tests suggested no immediate threat to UBS’s balance (e.g., Swiss mortgage lending book). sheet. However, we identified methodological challenges ranging from the suitability of climate scenarios for banking risk Protecting our clients’ assets modelling to data availability. To address these challenges, We help our clients assess, manage and protect their assets from 16 banks, including UBS, the UN Environment Programme climate-related risks by offering innovative products and services Finance Initiative (UNEP FI), the Integrated Assessment Modelling in investment, financing and research. AM has developed a suite Consortium (IAMC), and risk consultancies Oliver Wyman and of products allowing clients to identify the carbon intensity of Acclimatise began a collaboration of several years in 2018. The their investments and/or to align them with the Paris objective is to develop analytical tools that help banks define Agreement: In 2017, AM together with the New Employment and disclose climate-related risks and opportunities as envisioned Savings Trust launched a strategy called Climate Aware with an by the TCFD. This includes developing and further refining aim to do more than manage investments based on carbon footscenario-based stress-testing methodologies. Now in its second printing. In 2018, AM followed its successful UK Climate Aware phase, the UNEP FI TCFD working group for banks has grown to rules-based fund with an Irish-based fund that is available for 35 banks and has expanded the development of these analytical international investors outside of the UK. The portfolio is tools to include a range of possible scenarios, further oriented towards companies that are better prepared for a lowadvancement on scenario-based stress testing methodologies, carbon future while reducing exposure to, rather than excluding, and standardization between institutions on what defines companies with higher carbon risk, in order to pursue strategic climate-sensitive activities. These advancements aim for banks to engagement with these companies. The strategy involves not more robustly identify and disclose exposure to climate-related only a reduction of the CO2 footprint of the portfolio but also an risks and opportunities. innovative approach to aligning the portfolio with the 2 °C In addition to the UNEP FI TCFD working group, UBS is one of carbon reduction scenario. the pilot banks testing the Paris Agreement Capital Transition Finally, AM empowers equity portfolio managers to examine Assessment (PACTA). In the context of the PACTA pilot, we the carbon footprint of their portfolios and compare the relative studied the alignment of select climate-sensitive sectors in our carbon footprints of their company holdings to that of the corporate credit portfolio with Paris Agreement benchmarks. benchmark. The methodology provides an assessment of a bank’s creditfinanced activities in relation to the global shift to a low-carbon Engagement economy. For example, the assessment showed that the fuel mix On behalf of clients, AM engages with companies it invests in to in UBS’ s power utilities credit portfolio, according to the PACTA discuss approaches to mitigating climate-related risk. AM also methodology, is significantly less carbon intensive than the actively votes on shareholder resolutions to improve global corporate economy, as of 2019 (see “PACTA transparency and disclosure around climate-related reporting. methodology for power generation“ further below). However, Specifically in the context of its Climate Aware fund, AM has the limitations of the outputs from this assessment are very implemented an engagement program with 50 oil and gas similar to the other pilots and we will continue to work on companies as well as utilities companies underweighted in the improving methodology, data availability and scenario fund. Communication with these companies aims at improving applicability. their disclosure and performance alignment with the TCFD Both pilots promote industry learning and provide guidance recommendations. Engagement also makes it possible to share for disclosing climate-related risks and opportunities in line with the results of the quantitative and qualitative assessments TCFD recommendations. Overall, the results of the 2019 climate included in the fund methodology with investee companies. This risk pilots have confirmed findings from our previous pilot stress allows for the verification of company performance with tests on climate, which started in 2014: we have so far not additional information collected before and after meetings. It identified significant climate-related financial risk on our balance also means AM can collect feedback, explicitly communicate sheet. We explain this by UBS’s relatively small lending book in objectives for change in corporate practices and further enhance climate-sensitive-sectors (see “UBS corporate lending to climatethe model used to inform the under/ overweights in the sensitive sectors 2019“ further below) and availability of strategy. 58 AM is also involved in Climate Action 100+, a collaborative Opportunities engagement initiative launched in December 2017. Its aim is to engage with high-level greenhouse gas emitters, and other We mobilize private and institutional capital for investments that companies across the global economy, that have significant facilitate climate change mitigation and adaptation. UBS opportunities to drive the clean energy transition and help supports the orderly transition to a low-carbon economy as achieve the goals of the Paris Agreement. It has the support of corporate advisor, and/or with its lending capacity. 320 investors, representing more than USD 33 trillion of assets As we outlined in our 2020 white paper for the World under management (at end of 2019). AM is directly involved in Economic Forum annual meeting, Becoming climate aware: 30 coalitions of investors (at the end of 2019) within Climate Mobilizing capital to help meet climate change goals , we have Action 100+ and leads seven of the company dialogues across formulated a Climate Aware framework which helps investors regions. Whether AM is a lead or participating investor, it is an align their portfolios towards a climate-smart future. The active member of these coalitions, providing feedback on the framework is built on the methodology which underlies UBSclimate change performance of companies, the discussion AM’s Climate Aware strategy. The main characteristics of the agenda, engagement goals and the progress of these dialogues. framework are: – Portfolio mitigation: Lowering investment exposures to carbon risk – Portfolio adaptation: Increasing investment exposure to climate-related innovation and solutions – Portfolio transition: Aligning portfolios to an investor’s chosen climate glidepath A Climate Aware framework for investors 59 Our governance and principles Portfolio mitigation Our other business divisions also translate this strategic Based on our experience, maintaining a balance between thinking on climate into concrete products and services. UBS required investment returns and minimizing climate risks works offers 100% sustainable discretionary mandates and asset most effectively when investors integrate climate change allocation funds based on an innovative dedicated Sustainable considerations into a diversified portfolio. Similar to ESG Investing Strategic Asset Allocation for private clients in Global integration, this is an important element in understanding the Wealth Management (GWM) and Personal & Corporate Banking specific effects of climate change. As TCFD has highlighted, (P&C). These include an explicit allocation to strategies that aim these can be viewed as regulatory, market, technology and at mitigating climate change, such as green bonds and thematic physical risks. How they play out at the level of markets, industry investments, but also others that contribute indirectly to climate sectors and individual issuers depends on an interplay of: change mitigation such as Multilateral Development Bank – regulation; bonds, ESG leaders and ESG improvers. GWM developed a new – commercial considerations; advisory solution that includes an explicit climate change – impact of technology on business models, revenues, costs dimension, allowing clients to tilt their portfolios towards the and capital requirements. issues they care about. Ultimately our goal in developing new products and services is to ensure that all material risks and Integrating these three aspects puts the focus on the most opportunities are addressed, and to allow clients to select material issues relating to the reduction of emissions generated sustainable investments aligned to their interests while receiving by the most carbon-intensive sectors. It also leads to a deeper financial returns in line with traditional investment approaches. and more investment-relevant understanding of the physical GWM integrates sustainability assessments, focusing on the risks. sustainability intentionality of fund managers, into all fund and ETF onboardings. We have set a target of directing USD 5 billion Portfolio adaptation of client assets by the end of 2021 into new impact investments Investing for a low-carbon future hinges on the ability to invest contributing to the SDGs. These investments include a significant in, and fund, new technologies and solutions. The key investing climate component. GWM’s mutual fund and ETF offering areas relate to GHG emissions reduction, energy transition, and includes climate-focused investment strategies, comprising those energy efficiency. They include companies that manufacture and focused on clean / alternative energy. deploy these technologies as well as the infrastructure and We participated in launching, and have an ongoing services that make these achievable at scale. There are variety of partnership with, Align17, an independent, third-party digital developments in business structure, asset ownership, supply marketplace. Align17 stands out in connecting a wider range of chains and delivery models that may be deployed as part of the public, institutional, and private wealth investors with SDGclimate change transition. It is also important to recognize that related investment opportunities. These opportunities are there are different kinds of investors that are better-placed for available to qualifying UBS clients and often serve to finance certain kinds of investments. Venture capital, private equity, real climate-related projects. estate, public equity and public fixed income all have different Our AM and GWM businesses have in place a comprehensive appetites for technology risk. approach to address environmental, social and corporate governance factors across investment disciplines. For example, Portfolio transition sustainability themes are embedded in GWM’s equity research It is important for investors to understand the difference processes, while AM’s Real Estate and Private Markets has between where they are now and the possibilities of the climate developed a Responsible Investment Strategy to enhance transition. Scenario analysis is emerging as a response to the investment performance of mandates for direct and indirect real uncertainties of climate change. Engagement, meanwhile, estate and infrastructure investments. The 2019 GRESB (formerly provides an opportunity for investors to encourage good Global Real Estate Sustainability Benchmark) awarded 15 out of corporate practice and, together with voting, keep management 20 of AM’s submitted real estate and infrastructure funds 5-star accountable for the actions needed to keep pace with the ratings with the remaining funds achieving a 4-star rating. climate transition. It also allows investors to understand the Our Investment Bank provides capital-raising and strategic investment dynamics in individual sectors and countries and advisory services globally to companies that make a positive determine the overall direction of travel. By applying the tools of contribution to climate change mitigation and adaptation, scenario analysis and engagement, investors are better able to including those in the solar, wind, hydro, energy efficiency, manage the transition to a climate-smart future. waste and biofuels, and transport sectors. In 2019, the deal AM is also a member of the Institutional Investors Group on value in equity or debt capital market services, and of financial Climate Change (IIGCC) Climate Action 100+ European Advisory advisory services, related to climate change mitigation and Group, which advocates for the world’s transition to a lowadaptation, rose to USD 87.2 billion, from USD 56.5 billion in carbon economy. 2018. 60 We strive to be the preferred strategic financial partner learn, become connected to peers and experts and join the fight. relating to Switzerland’s Energy Strategy 2050. In 2019, P&C The four principles are Understand Climate Solutions and supported 12 strategic transactions in support of the strategy. Impact; Collaborate and Take Action Swiftly; Be Prepared to The UBS Clean Energy Infrastructure Switzerland strategy offers Stick With It; Marshall All Your Resources. institutional investors unprecedented access to a diversified portfolio of Swiss Infrastructure facilities and renewable energy Climate-related metrics companies. Due to clients’ demand, a successor strategy was launched in September 2017. In our P&C business we have also In 2019, we have again significantly reduced the share of our integrated Sustainable Investing Advisory into the strategic carbon-related assets to 0.8%, down from 1.6% in 2018 (and dialogue with our institutional clients. 2.8% in 2017). More broadly, our share of exposure to climateTo support philanthropists entering the climate space, UBS sensitive sectors has reduced in 2019 to 15.5% from 19.6% in Optimus Foundation and the Climate Leadership Initiative (CLI) 2018 (% of total gross banking exposure across IB and P&C). have developed four principles for effective climate philanthropy. Climate-related sustainable investments increased to USD 108 CLI was created by six of the top climate donors this year with billion, up from USD 87.5 billion in the previous year. At the end the express goal of making it easier for new philanthropists to of 2019, we had reduced our GHG emissions by 71% compared to baseline year 2004. Climate-related metrics 2019 For the year ended % change from 31.12.19 31.12.18 31.12.17 31.12.18 Risk management Identified significant climate-related financial risk on balance sheet1 None None None Carbon-related assets (USD bn)2 1.9 3.2 5.8 (41) Proportion of total banking products exposure, gross (%) 0.8 1.6 2.8 Total exposure to climate-sensitive sectors (USD bn)3 37.6 38.6 42.6 (3) Proportion of total banking products exposure, gross (%) 15.5 19.6 20.5 Weighted carbon intensity of the Climate Aware equities strategy (in tons CO2e per million of USD revenue) 4 74.8 95.6 117.5 (22) Compared to benchmark (FTSE Developed World Index) (%) (56.0) (55.7) (44.0) Number of climate-related shareholder resolutions voted upon 44 43 34 2 Proportion of supported climate-related shareholder resolutions (%) 5 81.8 88.0 82.0 Opportunities Climate-related sustainable investments (USD bn)6 108.0 87.5 74.0 23 Proportion of UBS clients’ total invested assets (%) 3.0 2.8 2.3 Total deal value in equity or debt capital market services related to climate change mitigation and adaptation 52.7 31.6 44.3 67 (CCMA)7 (USD bn) Total deal value of financial advisory services related to CCMA (USD bn) 34.5 24.9 5.5 39 Number of strategic transactions in support of Switzerland’s Energy Strategy 2050 12 8 4 50 Own operations GHG footprint (kilotons CO2e)8 104 132 148 (21) Percentage change from baseline 2004 (Target: -75% by 2020) (%) (71.2) (63.4) (59.0) 1 Methodologies for climate-related financial risk are emerging and may change over time, as described earlier under Scenario Analysis. 2 Carbon-related assets exposures are adjusted from previous years' versions to align with IFRS 9: Banking products across Investment Bank and Personal & Corporate Banking. IFRS 9 gross exposure including other financial assets at amortized cost, but excluding cash, receivables from securities financing transactions, cash collateral receivables on derivative instruments, financial assets at FVOCI, irrevocable committed prolongation of existing loans and unconditionally revocable committed credit lines and forward starting reverse repurchase and securities borrowing agreements. As recommended by the TCFD, carbon-related assets are defined as assets tied to the energy and utilities sectors (Global Industry Classification Standard). Non-carbon-related assets, such as renewables, water utilities, and nuclear power are excluded. For grid utilities, the national grid mix is applied. 3 Gross banking products across Investment Bank and Personal & Corporate Banking (IFRS 9). Climate-sensitive sectors defined as inventory of activities with higher vulnerability to transition and physical climate risks, for more see in-text description. 4 Year-on-year decrease of carbon intensity is mainly driven by higher carbon targets of the investment strategy. Carbon intensity is based on scope 1 and 2 CO2 emissions of investee companies, which often rely on third-party estimates. 5 On all proposals that we supported, we voted against the recommendation provided by the issuer. 6 Invested assets of products such as sustainably managed properties and infrastructure, and renewable energy. 7 Refer to Calculating and reporting on climate change-related financing and advisory activities in the Appendix of this document. 8 GHG footprint equals gross GHG emissions minus GHG reductions from renewable energy and GHG offsets (gross GHG emissions include: direct GHG emissions by UBS; indirect GHG emissions associated with the generation of imported / purchased electricity (grid average emission factor), heat or steam and other indirect GHG emissions associated with business travel, paper consumption and waste disposal). A breakdown of our GHG emissions (scope 1, 2, 3) is available in the in-house environmental section in this document. 61 Our governance and principles UBS corporate lending to climate-sensitive sectors 2019 UBS is leading an effort, with UNEP FI and peer banks, to define an inventory of climate-sensitive activities based on TCFD, regulators’ and rating agencies’ climate risk definitions. The current inventory is summarized in the table below at the sector level. UBS corporate lending to climate-sensitive sectors 2019 banking products across Personal & Corporate Banking and the Investment Bank As of 31.12.19 Share of total exposure to all sectors (%) USD million, except where indicated Gross exposure2 Climate-sensitive sector 1 Aerospace and defence 3 2,115 0.9 Automotive 449 0.2 Chemicals 1,052 0.4 Constructions and materials 4 3,993 1.6 Food and beverage 5 2,460 1.0 Industrial Materials 6 345 0.1 Machinery and equipment 7 2,576 1.1 Mining 8 3,000 1.2 Oil and gas 9 1,415 0.6 Plastic and rubber 356 0.1 Primary materials 10 332 0.1 Real estate 11 15,031 6.2 Transportation 12 3,272 1.3 Utilities 13 1,186 0.5 Total exposure to climate-sensitive sectors 37,582 15.5 Total exposure to all sectors 242,565 100.0 1 Climate-sensitive sectors defined as inventory of activities with higher vulnerability to transition and physical climate risks, for more see in-text description. 2 Banking products across the Investment Bank and Personal and Corporate banking divisions. IFRS 9 gross exposure including other financial assets at amortized cost, but excluding cash, receivables from securities financing transactions, cash collateral receivables on derivative instruments, financial assets at FVOCI, irrevocable committed prolongation of existing loans and unconditionally revocable committed credit lines and forward starting reverse repurchase and securities borrowing agreements. 3 Of which air transport: USD 1.9 billion 4 Of which construction: USD 3.2 billion, mfg. concrete / cement: USD 0.4 billion 5 Of which food / grain traders / wholesalers: USD 1.4 billion, mfg. food / bev: USD 1.1 billion 6 Of which mfg. iron / steel: USD 0.2 billion, mfg. pulp / paper: USD 0.06 billion 7 Of which mfg. metal products: USD 0.7 billion 8 Of which metal ore traders USD 2.7 billion, coal mining: USD 0.02 billion 9 Of which upstream extraction: USD 1.1 billion, integrated O&G: USD 0.2 billion 10 Of which agriculture-related: USD 0.2 billion, forestry / wood: USD 0.02 billion 11 Of which development / selling real estate: USD 14 billion, agencies: USD 0.8 billion. In addition UBS has loans and advances to customers backed by residential real estate totaling USD 155 billion across Global Wealth Management and Personal & Corporate Banking 12 Of which shipping: USD 0.5 billion, mfg. trains: USD 0.8 billion, logistics / post: USD 0.5 billion 13 Of which prod. / dist. electricity: USD 0.8 billion (for a closer look at the carbon exposure of UBS’s power utilities portfolio, see PACTA graph below), refuse / recycling: USD 0.2 billion, water collection / purification: USD 0.01 billion 62 PACTA methodology for power generation In 2019 we further assessed select climate-sensitive sectors using the PACTA methodology. Results on power sector show that the technology mix of UBS’ s power sector corporate lending portfolio is significantly less carbon intensive than the global corporate economy, as of 20191. UBS corporate lending portfolio technology mix of production against global corporate economy 1 Across the Investment Bank and Personal & Corporate Banking, banking products only. As of 30.9.19, includes clients who are classified as power utilities. The methodology is driven by the 2° Investing Initiative's PACTA pilot. 63 Our governance and principles Sustainability-related training and raising awareness Sustainable performance and compensation Overview Total Reward Principles Throughout the year, we continued training and raising the Our compensation philosophy is to align the interests of our awareness of employees, including with respect to embracing employees with those of our investors and clients, building on our Code of Conduct and Ethics (the Code). All employees have our three keys to success – our Pillars, Principles and Behaviors. to confirm annually that they have read UBS’s key documents Our Total Reward Principles establish a framework that balances and policies, including the Code. sustainable performance, supporting our growth ambitions and We actively engage in internal and external education and prudent risk-taking with a focus on conduct and sound risk awareness raising on corporate responsibility and sustainability management practices. topics and issues. Through induction, education and broader Our compensation structure is aligned with our strategic awareness-raising activities, we ensure that our employees priorities. It aligns the interests of our employees with those of understand their responsibilities in complying with our policies our stakeholders and encourages our employees to focus on our and the importance of our societal commitments. clients, create sustainable value, deliver on our growth ambitions and achieve the highest standards of performance. Moreover, UBS in society we reward behaviors that help build and protect the firm’s UBS promotes employees’ understanding of the goals and reputation, specifically integrity, collaboration and challenge. We actions of UBS in society through a wide range of training and strive for client focus, excellence and sustainable performance in awareness-raising activities, as well as performance everything we do. Compensation for each employee is based on management. For example, in 2019, specialist training program individual, team, business division and Group performance, on environmental and human rights topics (including sustainable within the context of the markets in which we operate. investing) has been provided to approximately 14,000 Our Total Reward Principles apply to all employees globally. employees in front-office and support functions who are dealing They may vary in certain locations according to local legal directly with the related aspects in every day's business requirements and regulations. processes. In addition, employee volunteering activities across all regions help raise awareness of UBS in society and our Managing a high-performing workforce sustainability goals. Managing our people effectively is vital for our long-term General information is published on our intranet and on our success. As such, our global performance management process UBS in society internet site. evaluates both performance and behavior. This helps us assess  Refer to the Appendix 2 for the UBS in society management how well integrity, collaboration and challenge (the firm’s indicators (including training numbers) expected behaviors) are demonstrated in daily business activities. It also makes our management, promotion and reward Combating financial crime processes more transparent. For 2019, 99.9% of eligible All employees are required to complete financial crime training employees received a performance review. which covers anti-money laundering (AML), sanctions, fraud and To help us attract and retain a skilled global workforce, our anti-corruption. The training is mandatory and must be pay is differentiated by location, rank and role. We pay for completed at least on an annual basis. performance and are committed to ensuring that all employees We regularly update web-based training modules to address are paid fairly, embedding pay equity principles into our compliance issues, including anti-corruption standards. compensation policies and practices. We conduct regular Employees in specific areas also receive targeted training on internal and external reviews, and we seek to address any client-related corruption, including the bank’s own corruption unexplained gaps. Certain jurisdictions such as the UK may risks in regard to intermediaries, gifts and entertainment or require specific disclosure on this topic, which we fully adhere when major new developments require additional training. to.  Refer to “Combating financial crime” in the “Driving change in business“ section for more information about our AML and anti-corruption activities 64 ESG in the compensation determination process Board of Directors ESG (Environmental, Social and Governance) is considered in the As set out in the Organization Regulations of UBS Group AG, compensation determination process in different phases through BoD members, as a group, must have the necessary objective setting, performance award pool funding, performance qualifications, skills and diversity to perform all BoD duties In assessment and compensation decision. particular, the BoD must together possess financial literacy, At the beginning of the year, objectives relative to Group, experience in banking and risk management, as well as business divisions, Pillars, Principles and Behaviors are set. ESGinternational experience, including experience of international related objectives have been embedded in our Pillars and financial matters, and knowledge of the duties of directors. Principles since they were established in 2011. To maintain the At least every three years an external assessment of the focus on these important ESG topics, our Group CEO and other effectiveness of the BoD is conducted. In each year when there GEB members have specific ESG-aligned goals under Pillars and is no independent external assessment, a thorough selfPrinciples including governance and risk management, talent assessment is completed at the level of the BoD, while the management and diversity, client satisfaction and corporate committees perform self-assessments every year. responsibility. These include goals for reducing our carbon The results of the in-depth external assessment undertaken footprint and corporate waste, and progressing our from end 2018 until May 2019 concluded that the BoD and its philanthropic efforts. committees were operating effectively, in line with best practice In the performance award pool funding, ESG is reflected and best in class in comparison with leading European peers. through the assessment of risks, such as legal, compliance, The final report did not raise any material issues, but did make a reputational and operational risks. Therefore ESG is taken into number of recommendations for consideration by the BoD. consideration when the Compensation Committee assesses not These led to minor adjustments in the BoD agenda and served as only what results were achieved, but also how they were a source for the definition of the BoD’s priorities for 2019/2020. achieved. These achievements versus the ESG-related goals are Areas of particular focus for the BoD were strategy, growth and reflected in the qualitative performance assessment and affect value creation, as well as succession planning. Furthermore, a the final compensation decision. particular focus remained on the oversight of the regulatory, risk Objectives focusing on our key ESG commitments are also set and legal issues as well as on digital transformation. for managers and employees in pertinent departments or units. Environment, social and governance topics, in particular Most notably, this includes managers and employees in sustainability and the continued emphasis on cultural values investment, research and product development, UBS in society, were other key priorities. anti-money laundering, human resources, environmental and  Refer to the “Corporate governance and compensation” section Community Affairs functions. of the UBS Annual Report 2019 and the Organization Regulations of UBS Group AG available at Group Executive Board www.ubs.com/governance for further information Annual performance awards for the Group CEO and the other GEB members are based on the GEB compensation determination process and, in aggregate, subject to shareholder approval at the AGM. We assess the GEB members’ performance against a number of financial targets and goals related to Pillars, Principles, and Behaviors. The financial measures for the Group CEO are based on overall Group performance. For the other GEB members, such measures are based on both Group performance and the performance of the relevant business division and/or region; those who lead Group functions are assessed on the performance of the Group and the function they oversee. The weighting between Group, business division, regional and functional measures varies depending on a GEB member’s role. A significant weight is given to Group measures for all GEB members. The achievements relative to goals related to Pillars and Principles are additional factors for assessing the overall quality and sustainability of the financial results. We have adjusted the metric and goal weightings and enhanced the transparency of the respective disclosure. New for 2019, the financial measures account for 70% of the assessment while Pillars and Principles account for 15% and Behaviors account for the remaining 15%. 65 Materiality under GRI Standards Materiality under GRI Standards GRI-based materiality assessment previously listed separately in the matrix (Combating financial crime; Financial stability and resilience; Cyber security; Conduct; We put great emphasis on learning the views and values of our Client protection) within the topic of Regulatory compliance and stakeholders with regard to the business activities of UBS and its by merging topics. In 2019, we continued with this list of topics. role in society. Every year, we conduct a materiality assessment, Among the 13 topics, Regulatory compliance continues to be as defined by the guidelines of the Global Reporting Initiative the most material, followed by, as in 2018, Client experience. (GRI), to collect stakeholder views on key topics pertaining to Our materiality assessment also included a consultation of our firm’s economic, social and environmental performance and internal experts on our firm’s significant economic, impacts. Our materiality assessment draws on formal and environmental and social impacts. We concluded that these informal monitoring, from our dialog with stakeholders and impacts are directly reflected in the topics deemed most material from relevant external studies and reports. in the GRI-based materiality assessment and that they are Requested and supervised by the Corporate Culture and overwhelmingly concerned with economic impacts. These topics Responsibility Committee (CCRC), UBS’s comprehensive fall within two significant impact areas of our firm: ensuring the materiality assessment process is managed by a UBS-internal, provision of high-quality services to clients and actively cross-business division and cross-regional materiality assessment managing potential major risks to clients as well as other team. The team consists of a group of experts who – due to stakeholders. Jointly, these two significant impact areas of our their function – deal with stakeholder expectations and concerns firm are reflected in the highly ranked topics of Regulatory on a daily basis. The team is responsible for delivering the compliance and Client experience. outcome of the materiality assessment to the CCRC on an  Refer to the Appendix 2 for a detailed overview of the impact annual basis. of material GRI topics We also regularly invite stakeholders to directly share their views. In 2019, we did so through our biannual online survey As shown in the matrix, stakeholders currently regard the that was completed by nearly 3,300 stakeholders, with clients impact of environmental and social topics as partly influencing being by far the largest stakeholder group. We plan to their assessments and decisions. The relevance of these topics undertake a stakeholder survey again in 2021. has, however, increased compared to 2018 and, with it, the probability that the relevance of some of these topics to UBS, UBS materiality matrix 2019 notably Climate action and Sustainable investing will further The overall results of the materiality assessment are expressed in increase in coming years. the UBS 2019 materiality matrix below. The matrix ranks topics As in previous years, the overall result of the assessment was by their relevance to UBS stakeholders and their impact on UBS’s reviewed by the CCRC. It also becomes part of the decisionsustainable performance. Sustainable performance, one of UBS’s making processes of this Board of Directors committee with a three principles, signifies our focus on the long term and our particular focus on those topics that were assessed as very efforts to provide consistent returns to our stakeholders. relevant or have considerably increased their relevance since the For the 2018 materiality matrix, we substantially reduced the preceding year. number of topics, including by subsuming several topics 66 Material GRI topics 2019 All material topics are relevant to all entities consolidated within UBS. Information describing any relevant impacts of the For the purpose of the GRI Standards materiality assessment we topics outside UBS is provided as part of the description of the map the GRI topics to UBS’s materiality matrix and we identify respective GRI indicator or material topic in the following pages. the most material topics on the basis of their significance to The following table provides an overview of all topics on the stakeholders and their impact on sustainable performance. UBS materiality matrix and their subtopics.  Refer to the Appendix 2 for relevant management approaches 67 Materiality under GRI Standards Material topics Sub topics GRI topics Governance Regulatory compliance – client protection: data confidentiality; transparency (clear terms and conditions of products); fair GRI 417: Marketing and pricing schemes; easy-to-understand products and services Labeling GRI 418: Customer Privacy – combating financial crime: anti-corruption and anti-money laundering; crime and manipulation GRI 205: Anti-corruption detection processes GRI 206: Anti-competitive – conduct: compliance with laws, rules and regulations; integrity of the financial system; Code of Behavior Conduct and Ethics; forward-looking engagement with risk topics and risk prevention GRI 419: Socioeconomic Compliance – cyber security; data confidentiality and cyber security – financial stability and resilience: going concern leverage ratio (phase-in, %); common equity tier 1 capital ratio; manage risk-weighted assets within increasingly stringent risk framework; clear strategy Corporate governance – internal policies and guidelines GRI 102: General Disclosures – governance structure – strategy Financial and economics Digital innovation – innovation lab – digital transformation – digital product and service offering Operational efficiency and effectiveness – cost and process efficiency GRI 201: Economic Performance – focus on core competencies – flexibility to adapt to changing regulatory environment – outsourcing / nearshoring / offshoring – automation – location strategy – product and execution excellence Client experience – excellence – above-average performance – best services and practices Employees and workplace Compensation – compensation structure GRI 401: Employment – bonus and executive payments – reward long-term performance Diversity and inclusion – diverse work force GRI 405: Diversity and Equal – inclusive culture Opportunity GRI 406: Non-Discrimination – equal employment conditions and opportunities GRI 419: Socioeconomic – women in management Compliance – age diversity within teams – flexible working conditions – diverse client base Talent management – talent attraction GRI 404: Training and Education – employee training on particular skills – internal mobility – management of talent pipeline and succession planning – talent and leadership development programs – provision of apprenticeships and vocational training 68 Material topics Sub topics GRI topics Working culture and environment – behaviors – flexible working times – availability of remote working and/or home office – occupational health and well-being: work-life balance; health protection; health and safety of employees Environmental and social Climate action – commitment and strategy for the topic of climate change GRI 201 Economic Performance – climate-related investments, financing and research GRI 302: Energy GRI 305: Emissions – climate-related risk management Financial Supplement (FS) Product – external disclosure on the topic Portfolio – increasing energy efficiency and reducing our CO2 emissions – reduction of resource (energy, paper, water) consumption and increased resource efficiency Environmental and social risk management – identify and manage potential negative effects on the environment and human rights FS Audit – standards in environmentally and socially sensitive industries and activities FS Product Portfolio GRI 308: Supplier Environmental – standards in product development, investments, financing and for supply chain management Assessment decisions GRI 414: Supplier Social – responsible supply chain management Assessment Community investment – employee engagement through employee volunteering GRI 203: Indirect Economic – support of non-profits, charitable organizations and social enterprises (positive impact on Impacts communities) – supporting education and entrepreneurship in local communities – financial inclusion Sustainable investing – sustainable finance FS Product Portfolio – combination of societal and financial returns FS Active Ownership – sustainable investment criteria – impact investing – ESG integration – client foundation – philanthropy advisory 69 Driving change in finance Driving change in finance We strive to systematically incorporate the economic impacts of express their sustainability preferences and receive, after environmental, social and governance (ESG) issues into the appropriate fiduciary checks, investment recommendations that products and services we provide to clients. We support are personalized to their interests and values. corporate and institutional clients who want to generate positive Our global CIO includes material ESG considerations in its environment and social impact using our corporate advisory investment research and regularly translates key societal and expertise or by directing capital through our lending or environmental concerns into investment themes as part of its investment capacity. We assist private and institutional clients in Longer Term Investments series (aimed at investing in long-term their desire to invest in accordance with their own social and solutions to key environmental and social challenges) and global environmental objectives and we are proactive in discussing Research-based Advice. In 2019, some notable examples of CIO these issues with them. perspectives were the World Economic Forum white paper aimed at encouraging the sustainable finance community to Sustainable investing agree on common terminology and the launch of a new ESG data management methodology that combines insights from Sustainable investing (SI) is an approach that seeks to multiple data providers; the new ESG data framework also aligns incorporate environmental, social and/or governance with the Sustainability Accounting Standard Board‘s (SASB) considerations into investment decisions. SI strategies seek to materiality framework terminology. Simplifying and achieve one or more of the following objectives: achieve a standardizing sustainable investment terminology is a crucial positive environmental or social impact, align investments with part of growing sustainable finance, which is why we partner an investor’s personal environmental or social values, or improve with Blackrock and the Institute of International Finance to portfolio risk and return characteristics. outline a simplified sustainable investing taxonomy. We also As of 31 December 2019, our core SI assets increased to arrange networking platforms, roundtables and events for our USD 488 billion (2018: USD 313 billion) representing 13.5% clients to exchange ideas with one another. (2018:10.1%) of our total invested assets. The major driver We believe the private sector has a crucial role to play in behind this increase was the growth in the “ESG integration“ bringing innovative solutions to some of the world’s most and “sustainability focus“ categories, which went up 65.9% and pressing issues. This is why UBS supports social entrepreneurs, 132.4% respectively. Norms-based screening assets, i.e., assets via the UBS Global Visionaries program, who are tackling some that fall under the application of a UBS policy1 and do not of the world’s biggest social and environmental challenges. otherwise qualify as a core sustainable investment, amounted to These Global Visionaries have been recognized by our teams in USD 818 billion as of 31 December 2019 (up from USD 797 GWM for their plans to improve the world in areas such as billion in 2018). Total sustainable investments, including normshealth, education, equality and the environment. We connect based screening assets, accounted for USD 1,306 billion (2018: these Global Visionaries with our clients, and UBS employees USD 1,110 billion), or 36.2% (2018: 35.8%), of our total volunteer their time and expertise to help the Global Visionaries invested assets. in their endeavors.  Refer to “Our focus on ESG“ in the “How we create value for Asset Management (AM) has integrated sustainability into its our stakeholders“ section for more information about our entire investment approach. We are convinced that sustainable sustainable investing numbers and impact investing can add value to portfolios within the same risk / return profile. Investment strategies customized to address In its efforts to achieve UBS’s goal to be a leader in SI for particular sustainability objectives, such as reducing carbon risk private clients, Global Wealth Management (GWM) provides or tilting a portfolio toward specific environmental, social or clients with a comprehensive set of SI solutions in its mandate governance factors, in combination with traditional financial and and advisory offerings as well as through impact investments risk / return expectations are increasingly popular. Over the last opportunities. We offer a suite of discretionary UBS Manage decade, we have developed capabilities to provide customized offerings with 100% (excluding liquidity) sustainable and impact solutions to meet the specific goals and needs of individual investments available in our main booking centers worldwide. investors. We offer a wide range of SI strategies across various These offerings are based on our global Chief Investment asset classes, integrating sustainability and impact into our entire Office’s (CIO) UBS House View and align to its SI strategic asset mainstream offerings, including in active equities, fixed income, allocation. In 2019, we successfully piloted our innovative UBS hedge funds, infrastructure and private equity, real estate and Advice Premium [Sustainable Investing] offering. Starting from passive strategies. January 2020, our clients in Booking Center Switzerland can 1 The assets in discretionary mandates, in UBS’s actively-managed retail and institutional funds, as well as in our firm’s proprietary trading book are subject to our firm’s policy on the prohibition of investment on and indirect financing of companies involved in the development, production or purchase of anti-personnel mines and cluster munitions. 70 The Investment Bank provides industry-leading thematic and Stewardship / voting rights sector research in ESG / SI through a widely recognized team UBS Asset Management’s stewardship policy is our commitment working closely with our global line-up of outstanding expert to act as responsible stewards of assets held and managed on sector teams, and UBS Evidence Lab’s primary research behalf of our clients. We recognize that clients expect us to specialists. Our investment solutions include, for example, ensure the alignment of our approach with their own sustainable and socially responsible Index-linked notes. We offer investment beliefs, policies and guidelines. We have a strong capital-raising and strategic advisory services globally to interest in ensuring that companies in which we invest on behalf companies that make a positive contribution to climate change of clients are successful, and through our stewardship activities mitigation and adaptation, including those in the solar, wind, we seek to encourage a high standard of corporate practices, hydro, energy efficiency, waste and biofuels, and transport develop a relationship with investee companies and an sectors. In 2019, the total deal value in equity or debt capital understanding of mutual objectives and concerns. In addition, market services relating to these areas was USD 52.7 billion, and where clients of AM have delegated to us the discretion to USD 34.5 billion in financial advisory services. exercise the voting rights for shares they beneficially own, we Personal & Corporate Banking clients have access to have a fiduciary duty to vote such shares in the clients’ best appropriate and relevant sustainable investment products from interest and in a manner which achieves the best economic AM and GWM that follow our Group-wide approach to SI. In outcome for their investments. addition, our sustainability analytics offering enables institutional We maintain a comprehensive database of our meetings with clients to achieve full transparency by screening their portfolio companies and our voting activities. We review progress over for industry exposure. We also support energy utilities in raising time and follow up on issues identified. In the 12-month period capital on international capital markets to progress their quest ended 31 December 2019, we gave instructions (based on AM’s for renewable energy. Furthermore, we support Swiss small and corporate governance principles) to vote on 104,372 separate medium-sized enterprises (SMEs) in their energy-saving efforts resolutions at 10,432 company meetings. Information on such and transition to a low-carbon economy. SMEs benefit from resolutions and company meetings is provided in the Proxy initiatives such as energy check-ups or leasing bonuses (financial Voting Dashboard. contributions toward enhancing environmental performance) for  Refer to www.ubs.com/am-sustainability and production machines. In addition, we support Swiss start-ups in vds.issgovernance.com/vds/#/MjU0/ for more information and developing innovative circular economy solutions. for the Proxy Voting Dashboard. Having the financial expertise, networks and access to the capital required to build or support innovative financial products, we remain committed to introducing and funding innovative financial solutions. Examples include the SDG Engagement High Yield Credit funds (in co-operation with Federated Investors and Hermes Investment Management); the Climate Aware Equity (TTF), the UBS Managed Portfolio of Sustainable Investments, and our partnership with Align 17. As of 31 December 2019, we also held green and social bonds in the amount of USD 867 million in our high-quality liquid assets portfolios under the management of Group Treasury.  Refer to the table Key sustainable investing products and services in 2019 on the following pages for further information  Refer to www.ubs.com/globalvisionaries for more information about UBS Global Visionaries 71 Driving change in finance Key sustainable investing products and services in 2019 2 Product / service Business division Key features The Rise Fund Global Wealth USD 325 million raised of client commitments (fund raising concluded) Management Invests in seven sectors – education, financial services, health care, (GWM) infrastructure, energy, food and agriculture, and IT – with a dual mandate: generating competitive financial returns and measurable positive societal outcomes Rethink Impact Fund GWM USD 75 million of client commitments (fund raising concluded) Direct-access social impact private equity fund that invests in earlyto growth-stage, high-impact companies, primarily in the United States. The fund focuses on four themes: health care, economic opportunity, environmental sustainability, and education OrbiMed Asia Partners III GWM USD 85 million of client commitments (fund raising concluded) Growth investments in health care companies in China and India, focusing on biopharmaceuticals, medical technology and health care services Generation Partners Sustainable Solutions Fund III GWM USD 94 million of client commitments (fund raising concluded) Invests in transformative technologies providing disruptive solutions to global sustainability challenges Impact Direct Investing Offering GWM Initiated to address high demand for direct impact deals as well as UBS’s strong commitment to support the SDGs Complements the UBS SI Offering with direct impact investing opportunities ADM Cibus Fund GWM USD 125 million of client commitments (fund raising concluded) Aims to find investment opportunities arising out of the high-value food supply-demand imbalance faced by many developing economies, particularly in Asia and Middle East and North Africa KKR Global Impact Fund GWM USD 244 million of client commitments Invests in businesses that contribute measurable progress toward one or more of the SDGs RXR Qualified Opportunity Zone Fund GWM USD 283 million of client commitments Invests in real estate and/or real estate –focused businesses within qualified opportunity zones Bridge Workforce & Affordable Housing Fund GWM USD 167 million of client commitments Invests in real estate located throughout the United States, with a focus on workforce and affordable multifamily housing communities UBS Manage SI (discretionary mandate and SI fund) GWM, Personal & Based on Chief Investment Office (CIO) SI (sustainable investing) Strategic Corporate (P&C) Asset Allocation (SAA) (100% SI excl. liquidity allocation) AuM: USD 9.1 billion (of which USD 7.1 billion track the SI SAA) UBS Managed Portfolio of SI (US only) GWM Based on CIO SI SAA (100% SI excl. liquidity allocation) AuM: USD 284 million UBS Advice Premium SI GWM Innovative Advice mandate, reflecting our clients’ individual preferences; launched in January 2020 72 Product / service Business division Key features SI-focused UBS Advice solutions GWM Expanded SI offering that includes mutual funds, exchange-traded funds, separately managed accounts, unit investment trusts, private equity and structured products SDG Engagement High Yield Credit funds GWM Launched in co-operation with Federated Investors and Hermes Investment Management ESG Portfolio Analyzer GWM Provides transparency and analysis of ESG topics in client portfolios Align 17 GWM UBS-initiated third-party digital marketplace for impact investments that connects private wealth to vetted co-investment opportunities with diligence done by some of the world’s leading impact fund managers SI Strategy Fund GWM, P&C Based on CIO SI SAA and aligned to UBS Manage SI (discretionary mandate) AuM: USD 154 million UBS Long Term Themes Equity Fund GWM, Asset USD 2.5 billion held in Long Term Themes Fund and mandates UBS Long Term Themes Portfolio SMA Management Invests in companies that are solution providers for challenges such as water (AM) scarcity, emerging market infrastructure and health care, waste management and recycling Climate Aware Equity (TTF) AM Innovative rules-based equities strategy to address carbon risks and Climate Aware CH Institutional opportunities in portfolios Climate Aware UK Life Global (Engage for) Impact Equity AM Strategy focusing on engagement as a key driver of impact and investment results US Sustainable Equity AM Sustainability focused US equity fund US Sustainable Growth Equity AM Sustainability focused US equity fund Multilateral Development Bank (MDB) AM Innovative product investing in Development Bank bonds to support the SDGs through high-grade fixed income exposure Sustainable Corporate Bonds AM Investment Grade USD / EUR / CHF bond portfolios with superior ESG profile Multi Asset AM Multi asset portfolio with enhanced ESG profile in asset categories where possible Short Duration High Yield Sustainable Bond AM Investment guidelines with sustainability criteria aiming to deliver a better sustainability profile relative to their investment universe Global Gender Equality AM Systematic strategy targeting companies committed to sustainability and gender diversity S&P 500 ESG AM ETF invested in all equities included in the S&P 500 ESG index Eurostoxx 50 ESG AM ETF invested in all equities included in the EURO STOXX 50 ESG index 73 Driving change in finance Product / service Business division Key features MSCI China ESG Universal AM ETF invested in all equities included in the MSCI China ESG Universal 5% Issuer Capped Index JPM Emerging Markets Debt IG ESG Bonds AM Designed to track the performance of US Dollar-denominated emerging market fixed and floating-rate debt instruments classified as investment grade (IG) and issued by Sovereigns, Quasi-Sovereigns and Corporates. JPM Global Government ESG AM Provides exposure to local currency sovereign debt that meets certain sustainability standards Voting (on behalf of clients) AM Provided instructions (based on AM’s corporate governance principles) to vote on 104,372 separate resolutions at 10,432 company meetings World Bank Index-Linked Sustainable Development Bond Investment Bank Debt securities issued by the International Bank for Reconstruction and (IB) / GWM Development, with a return at maturity based on the performance of the Global Sustainability Signatories Index Provides investors access to a sustainable development bond issued by the World Bank and access to a global equity index with companies selected based on ESG ratings Green and sustainable bonds IB 25 green and sustainable bond transactions supported Global Sustainability Leaders index IB, GWM Companies selected include leaders with regard to the UN Global Compact principles Renewable energy and cleantech financing IB Participation in significant renewables and cleantech deals globally, for both established utilities clients and innovative growth-stage companies Energy check-up for SMEs P&C UBS SME efficiency bonus for energy reduction plan with overall energy savings of 58,000 MWh/a, equivalent to the annual energy consumption of approximately 3,000 single-family homes3 Preferred strategic partner for advisory and financing P&C Supports energy utilities in raising capital on international capital markets to transactions related to Switzerland’s Energy Strategy 2050 progress their quest for renewable energy Twelve strategic transactions executed for Switzerland’s Energy Strategy 2050 2 All information provided is as of 31 December 2019, except where otherwise noted. 3 Information provided is as of 31 December 2018 74 Driving change in philanthropy UBS Philanthropy Donor-Advised Fund A UBS Donor Advised Fund (DAF) offers clients an easy flexible Developed over more than two decades, our unique, awardand efficient alternative to setting up an independent winning1 offering partners with clients and their families to foundation. Quick to set up and simple in structure, a DAF can manage their philanthropy and maximize their impact. It is based be managed in line with a client’s usual investment approach. on three core pillars: comprehensive advice, insight experiences, Their charitable donations are invested within the parameters and execution services. We employ an investment-based they select, such as capital, growth or income, so they can grow approach delivering solutions to pressing social and their fund to make grants at a later date. environmental issues. UBS Philanthropy Services connects clients to an international UBS Optimus Foundation network of expertise and support. With a team of close to The Foundation connects clients with inspiring entrepreneurs, 60 philanthropy experts in 12 locations, we can support clients new technologies and proven models that are making a wherever their philanthropic objectives lead. We work closely measurable, long-term difference to the most serious and with government bodies such as the United States Agency for enduring social and environmental problems. International Development and the Department for International UBS Optimus Foundation has a 20-year track record, is Development in the UK. And alongside academic institutions recognized globally as a philanthropic thought leader and as a such as Oxford, Stanford and Harvard. This breadth and depth pioneer in the social finance space. The latter aims for “impact of know-how makes sure that every piece of advice we offer is first“, and often entails greater financial risk than investing in informed by the latest thinking and a clear understanding of the mainstream assets. In fact, impact bonds or loans for impact are prevailing rules and regulations in each territory. a way to drive financial returns that are directly linked to actual social impact. Advice In all its activities, the Foundation always takes an evidenceWe provide comprehensive advice to clients and their families, based approach and focuses on programs that have the whatever their philanthropic goals. Examples include clients potential to be transformative, scalable and sustainable. This considering establishing their first charitable fund and guidance gives our clients the reassurance that they are funding innovative on how to ensure their giving is tax-efficient, thereby projects that have a stronger chance of achieving all-important maximizing the value of their charitable funds. systemic change. In some cases, UBS also makes matching contributions to the Foundation, ensuring that our clients' Insights donations go even further. We want our clients to be able to make the best informed decisions about their philanthropy, and a key way we do that is Achievements in 2019 by connecting people and providing insight through our global UBS Optimus Foundation raised USD 89.5 million in donations network. This can be anything from a philanthropy insights trip, and approved USD 109.5 million grants. Across our portfolios to a report on the latest charitable giving tax rules or an and programs, we helped improve the well-being of 3.3 million invitation to a networking event with fellow philanthropists. children worldwide (500,000 more than last year). Approximately 400 ultra-high net worth individuals or Execution philanthropists attended our events on the topic of philanthropy We offer a number of execution services, providing our clients to foster collaboration, share knowledge and best practice. with flexible options on how to manage their philanthropic giving. They include structures that make it easier and more cost-effective to put their strategy into practice. 1 Best Global Bank for Philanthropy Advice, Euromoney Private Banking Survey 2017–2019. 75 Driving change in business Driving change in business This section includes key initiatives and activities that we are We recognize that we have a role to play in leading debates committed to in order to incorporate sustainability in our way to on important societal topics and, in collaboration with other do business and that meet the expectations of our stakeholders. firms and industry bodies, in setting high standards for these These include our management of environmental and social topics in and beyond our industry. Our key activities in 2019 in risks, our firm’s environmental footprint, our responsible supply this regard are set out in the table below and on the next page. chain management and our approach to combating financial crime. Advancing sustainability in the financial sector – UBS’s key activities in 2019 Initiative Focus topic Role / activity of UBS Key outcome of initiative in 2019 Principles for Responsible Banking Sustainable finance Founding signatory of the PRB Active input to the consultation process (PRB) and participation at PRB launch event Financial Stability Board Task Force Climate change Member of TCFD and aligning of UBS Continued development and on Climate-related Financial disclosure with TCFD recommendations implementation of TCFD Disclosures (TCFD) UN Environment Programme Finance Climate change Collaborates in developing approaches to help Launched second phase working group to Initiative (UNEP FI) banks disclose their exposures to climateexpand risk and opportunity assessment related risks and opportunities, as envisioned methodologies, climate scenarios, and by the TCFD related data and tools, building on previous efforts disclosed in two publicly available reports EnergyCom Climate change Premium partner Key annual Swiss SME event on climate and energy topics Climate Action 100+ Stewardship / climate Directly involved in 30 coalitions of investors Engagement resulted in strengthened change and engagement lead on seven coalition climate change commitments from some dialogues of the world’s largest energy producers Institutional Investors Group on Climate change Participant and stream lead Chairing working group dedicated to Climate Change exploring the alignment of portfolios to the goals of the Paris Agreement Circular Economy Incubator (Impact Responsible Premium partner. In addition, we support Incubator for Swiss sustainable start-ups Hub) production Swiss start-ups in developing innovative business models which follow the idea of a circular economy (resell and reuse, repair and refurbish). 76 Initiative Focus topic Role / activity of UBS Key outcome of initiative in 2019 Paris Agreement Capital Transition Climate change One of 17 banks pilot-testing and shaping the First assessment on the alignment of Assessment (PACTA) development of the methodology corporate lending portfolios with the Paris Agreement benchmarks completed Natural Capital Finance Alliance Natural capital in various various work Participant in work streams streams Continuedparticipation Continued participationininadvisory advisory committeefor committee forthe secondstage thesecond stageofofthe the projecttool project toolENCORE ENCORE(Exploring (ExploringNatural Natural CapitalOpportunities, Capital Opportunities,Risks Risksand andExposure) Exposure) which maps how industry sectors depend on nature Swiss Sustainable Finance (SSF) Sustainable finance Member of SSF board Events and projects to promote sustainable finance in Switzerland Association for Environmental Sustainable finance Member of VfU board Events and projects to advance Management and Sustainability in sustainable finance in Germany, Austria Financial Institutions (VfU) and Switzerland Thun Group of Banks Human rights Convener of Group Thun Group input to OECD Responsible Business Conduct (RBC) guidance Organisation for Economic CoDue diligence Member of advisory group of OECD Launch of OECD guidance on Due operation and Development (OECD) Responsible Business Conduct (RBC) project Diligence for Responsible Corporate Lending and Securities Underwriting Belt and Road Green Investment Climate change and Signatory to the GIP Participation at the first GIP Plenary Principles (GIP) sustainable finance meeting Institute of International Finance (IIF) Sustainability Member of IIF SFWG and lead on policy and Best practices on TCFD, proposal to Sustainable Finance Working Group standards and regulatory engagement simplify SI taxonomy, greening (SFWG) regulation infrastructure, and continued input to other initiatives including EC TEG Global Impact Investing Network Sustainable finance Member of Investor Council Regular dialogue and event presentations IFC Operating Principles for Impact Sustainable finance Founding signatory, Advisory Board member Launch and publication of Principles, led Management by World Bank's IFC Impact Management Project (IMP) Sustainable finance Project partner Integration of IMP conventions into diligence and investment approach PRI (Principles for Responsible Sustainable finance Various, including members of SDG Advisory Proposals on how to measure SDGs for Investment) Committee corporations Global Research Alliance for Sustainable finance Sponsor Advance theoretical understanding of Sustainable Finance and Investment SI / ESG integration (GRAFSI) UBS ESG and Sustainability Sustainable finance Organizer One-day conference around the key Symposium and investing issues the financial markets are navigating, including academic panel (in collaboration with GRAFSI) UBS Conferences, e.g., European Various Organizer Variety of panels on sustainable finance, Conference, Greater China climate risk, energy transition, etc. Conference 77 Driving change in business Environment and human rights (Paris Agreement). We regularly report on the implementation of our climate strategy and follow the recommendations of the Our environmental management system covers the entire scope Task Force on Climate-related Financial Disclosures. of UBS products, services and in-house operations that may give In assessing UBS’s potential human rights impacts we focus rise to an environmental impact. It is externally audited annually on three key stakeholder groups: employees, clients and and recertified every three years. vendors. With regard to employees, UBS, through its human We view the proper management of our firm’s own resource (HR) policies and practices, meets the obligations that a environmental footprint and our supply chain as important proof responsible company is expected to comply with. We review our points for how we do business in a sustainable manner. This is HR policies and practices on a regular basis to ensure that equally true for our comprehensive management of human and labor rights continue to be respected. With regard environmental and social risks (ESR). Our in-house environmental to clients, we conduct ongoing reviews of our business management, responsible supply chain management (RSCM), relationships to assess whether they might lead to potential and ESR standards and management are aligned with the UBS in negative impacts on rights holders. All client relationships that society strategy and enforced across the firm. are considered important from an ESR point of view are subject We constantly strive to reduce our greenhouse gas (GHG) to enhanced ESR due diligence. emissions, waste production, energy and paper consumption as With regard to our vendors, we identify high-risk vendors well as water usage. when establishing new contracts or renewals based on the By engaging with vendors to promote responsible practices, vendors’ provision of goods and services that have either a we look to reduce negative environmental and social effects of substantial environmental and social impact, or are sourced in the goods and services UBS purchases. Our RSCM principles markets with potentially high social risks. We also regularly embed UBS’s ethics and values in our interactions with our screen active vendors as part of our ESR control processes. vendors, contractors and service partners. Since 2008, firm-wide Both our firm’s approach to the environment and human guidelines have provided systematic assistance on identifying, rights and our commitment to our employees (as reflected in our assessing and monitoring vendor practices in the areas of human HR processes and policies) are overseen by the Board of and labor rights, environmental protection and corruption. A Directors, notably by the Corporate Culture and Responsibility central component of this guideline is the UBS Responsible Committee (CCRC). Within the parameters set by the CCRC, Supply Chain Standard to which our vendors are bound by environmental and human rights issues at Group Executive contract. Board-level are overseen by the Global ESR Committee. The We apply an ESR framework to identify and manage potential CCRC regularly reviews the assessments and steps taken by the adverse impacts to the environment and/or human rights, as Global ESR Committee toward executing UBS’s environmental well as the associated environmental and/or social risks that our and human rights commitments and climate strategy. clients’ and our own assets are exposed to. We support the  Refer to “Our climate strategy” in the “Our governance and orderly transition to a low-carbon economy. Our climate strategy principles“ section and to the “ESR policy framework“ in the underlines our commitment to the United Nations Sustainable Appendix 1 for more information Development Goals on climate action and on affordable and  Refer to “In-house environmental management” in this section clean energy – and to the Paris Agreement on Climate Change for more information 78 Management of environmental and social risks These processes are geared toward identifying clients, transactions or vendors potentially in breach of our standards, or We apply an environmental & social risk (ESR) framework to otherwise subject to significant environmental and human rights identify and manage potential adverse impacts on the controversies. We use advanced data analytics to assess environment and/or to human rights, as well as the associated companies associated with such risks, integrated into our webenvironmental and social risks to which our clients’ and our own based compliance tool, before we enter into a client or vendor assets are exposed to. Our comprehensive ESR standards, which relationship or transaction. This significantly enhances our ability are in line with the principles expressed in the UBS in society to identify potential risks. In 2019, 1,889 referrals were assessed constitutional document, govern client and vendor relationships by our ESR unit, of which 82 were rejected or not further and are enforced firm-wide. pursued, while 299 were approved with qualifications and 32 We have set ESR standards for product development, were still pending. investments, financing and supply chain management decisions.  Refer to the “ESR policy framework“ in the Appendix 1 for more As part of our due diligence process, we engage with clients and information vendors to better understand their processes and policies and to explore how any environmental and social risks may be We will not do business if We will only do business under mitigated. We apply a precautionary approach by avoiding associated with severe stringent criteria in the following transactions, products, services, activities or vendors if they are environmental or social damage to areas: associated with material, environmental or social risks that or through the use of: cannot be properly assessed or mitigated. – UNESCO world heritage sites – soft commodities: palm oil, soy, Our ESR standards include a description of controversial – wetlands, endangered species, timber, fish and seafood activities and other areas of concern where we will not engage, – high conservation value forests, illegal – power generation: coal-fired power or where we will only engage with stringent criteria in place, as logging and use of fire, plants, large dams, nuclear power outlined below. These standards are reviewed on a regular basis. Our standard risk, compliance and operations processes – child labor, forced labor, indigenous – extractives: arctic oil and oil sands, peoples’ rights coal mining, Liquefied Natural Gas involve procedures and tools for identifying, assessing, reporting (LNG), ultra-deepwater drilling, and monitoring environmental and social risks. These include hydraulic fracturing, oil sands, arctic client onboarding, ongoing Know Your Client reviews, drilling, coal mining, precious metals, transaction due diligence, product development, investment diamonds decisions, supply chain management and portfolio reviews. 79 Driving change in business Case studies on the management of environmental and human rights matters Environmental and social risk in trade How do we implement the ESR What is our commitment? finance and commodity trade finance framework in trade finance, We are supporting the utility sector in commodity trade finance? providing solutions that are in line with a Why is trade finance relevant? ESR controls are part of the standard sustainable development pathway. Trade finance supports about 20% of transaction due diligence processes. Recognizing the climate implications world trade, playing a central role in Based on our daily feed into the standard created by the extraction and burning of facilitating the global trade of raw compliance tool, every transaction is coal, we are committed to not providing commodities and other goods. checked against ESR. We use a risk-based project-level financing for new coal-fired Commercial banks support importers, approach. This means for commodity power plants globally and only supporting exporters and traders (for commodities) to trade finance, we focus on the originator financing transactions of existing coalsecure or finance international of the commodity. For trade finance, we fired operators (>30% coal reliance) who transactions. Trade may be exposed to focus on the counterparty and on projects have a transition strategy in place that heightened environmental and social that will use the goods involved, for aligns with a pathway under the Paris risks, especially when linked with example machinery produced by our Agreement, or if the transaction is related extraction of raw commodities and/or client in Switzerland. This means we apply to renewable energy. specific projects. Depending on the type checks beyond our clients on all relevant of the trade, such risks may arise for the counterparties in a transaction. We may How do we execute our commitment producer, the exporter and/or the ask additional questions to clarify the when financing electric utilities? importer of traded goods – as well as for origin or the final use of the goods and ESR controls are part of our standard the bank providing the financing. we may approve or decline. With a fast transaction due diligence processes. moving underlying business (same day in Utilities are screened for exposure to coalWhat do we do? and out), additional in-depth due fired power plants. Where a client or UBS enables buyers, sellers and traders to diligence is limited on transactional level. related entity has coal-fired power plants successfully trade goods and It is however possible to perform in their portfolio, we first determine the commodities, by guaranteeing deal enhanced due diligence during periodic current and future asset base of the performance through a variety of financial Know Your Client reviews or with client, by megawatt capacity of the instruments. For example, in Commodity separate deep-dive reviews in between various fuel types in the client’s power Trade Finance, UBS offers structured, transactions, which we conduct on a generation portfolio (e.g., nuclear, natural shortto mid-term loans that finance periodic and ongoing basis. gas and coal). This is determined through deals trading metals, energy, and softdesk research, third-party specialty commodities between producers and end Climate risks in financing electric databases and engaging with the client in users. Recognizing the role that UBS plays utilities question. We then benchmark the coal in facilitating and growing global trade, reduction trajectory against the Paris UBS implements its environmental and What are the climate risks associated Agreement-aligned benchmarks for host social risk framework in the context of with electric utilities? countries, as determined by our thirdindividual transactions. According to the International Energy party environmental, social and corporate Agency, approximately 35% of global governance data partner. The rates are power generation today is coal-fired. As then compared to determine if the client’s the world transitions to a low-carbon forward-looking strategy meets our Paris economy, reliance on coal-fired power Agreement-aligned commitment. generation will reduce significantly, eventually to 0%. Risks embedded in this transition are found with clients who have a significant reliance on coal-fired power plants in their own asset portfolios. 80 Case study: Non-compliance with the What do we do? How does our ESR approach impact a standards of the Roundtable on Before doing business with any company particular case? Sustainable Palm Oil (RSPO) involved in palm oil production or trading, UBS negotiated the commencement of a our experts for environmental and social relationship with a corporate client whose Why is palm oil such a hot topic? risk inquire how a company manages activities also included the palm oil It is estimated that more than 50% of environmental and social challenges in its business. At that point, the corporate tropical deforestation is due to the palm oil operations, as required by UBS’s entity was not a member of the RSPO, production of palm oil, soy, timber and standards for palm oil production. which is a requirement under the beef. Deforestation and forest Depending on the client and the type of respective UBS standard. UBS therefore degradation can cause biodiversity to transaction that UBS is confronted with, agreed to a conditional onboarding of the decline. Deforestation is, in fact, second for example lending, trade finance, corporate entity under the condition that only to the energy sector as a source of underwriting or investment banking it adhered to the RSPO within a global greenhouse gas emissions and advisory mandates, due diligence may predefined time period. After the agreed accounts for up to 20% of global involve desk research and interaction with period had passed without the client emissions. Furthermore, as millions of the companies, external experts, as well taking the necessary steps, UBS exited the people rely directly on forests, as global and local non-governmental relationship. deforestation continues to cause severe organizations. Depending on the results, societal problems, sometimes leading to this can lead to a variety of actions, from violent conflict. requesting the client to certify its production or trading processes against the standards of the RSPO to declining to do business with the client. 81 Driving change in business In-house environmental management ISO Standard The International Organization for Standardization (ISO) is an Introduction independent, non-governmental organization with boards of We are committed to reducing our environmental footprint and experts who develop worldwide proprietary, industrial and make an effort to go beyond our duty to protect the commercial standards for global challenges in various marketenvironment. We continuously seek to increase recycling and the relevant topics. ISO Standards help organizations of any size to use of environmentally friendly products as well as the efficiency drive their internal processes forward and develop their business. of our energy and water use, decreasing waste, paper usage, ISO 14001 specifies the requirements for an environmental business travel and employee commuting. management system of organizations, ISO 14064 helps We manage our environmental management system in companies to quantify and report their GHG and manage its accordance with ISO 14001. In 1999, we were the first bank to verification, whereas ISO 50001 focuses on their energy obtain this ISO certification for our worldwide environmental management system and their continual improvement of energy management system, which covers the entire scope of UBS performance. products, services and in-house operations that may cause an environmental impact. It is externally audited on an annual basis, Objectives and targets with our latest recertification having taken place in 2017. We We have established environmental objectives at relevant levels have also further developed our Environmental and Energy and functions. To continuously improve our environmental Management System in our European locations to be compliant performance, we have set quantitative targets related to our with ISO 50001. We received our first ISO 50001 certification significant environmental aspects since 2006. The current (energy management system standard) in 2017, the quantitative objectives were set in 2016 and have 2020 as the recertification is due in 2020. target year. Our environmental indicators (energy, water, paper, waste, recycling and travel) and related greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions data are externally verified on the basis of the ISO 14064 standard. These comprehensive audits confirm not only that appropriate policies and processes are in place to manage environmental issues but also that they are applied on a day-today basis.  Refer to the “Assurance and certification” section for our ISO certificates Environmental targets and performance in our operations1 Target % change Progress / GRI2 2019 2020 Baseline from baseline Achievement7 2018 2017 Total net greenhouse gas emissions (GHG footprint) in t CO2e3 305 103,670 -75% 360,5014 -71.2  131,960 147,757 Energy consumption in GWh 302 556 -5% 6615 -15.9  584 627 Share of renewable electricity 302 72.0% 100% 27.7%4 158.7  59.2% 56.0% GHG offsetting (business air travel) in t CO2e3 305 42,949 100% 04 100  50,166 54,412 Paper consumption in kg per FTE6 301 78 -5% 1145 -31.5  91 95 Share of recycled and FSC paper 301 83.4% 90% 89.5%5 -6.8  79.8% 90.8% Waste in kg per FTE6 306 156 -5% 2065 -24.2  175 203 Waste recycling ratio 306 51.2% 60% 54.1%5 -5.5  50.8% 55.0% Water consumption in m m3 303 0.79 -5% 0.965 -17.7  0.79 0.87 Legend: CO2e = CO2 equivalents; FTE = full-time employee; GWh = giga watt hour; kWh = kilo watt hour; km = kilometer; kg = kilogram; m m3 = million cubic meter; t = tonne 1 Reporting period 2019 (1 July 2018-30 June 2019). 2 Reference to GRI Sustainability Reporting Standards (see also www.globalreporting.org). 3 GHG footprint equals gross GHG emissions minus GHG reductions from renewable energy and GHG offsets (gross GHG emissions include: direct GHG emissions by UBS; indirect GHG emissions associated with the generation of imported / purchased electricity (grid average emission factor), heat or steam and other indirect GHG emissions associated with business travel, paper consumption and waste disposal). 4 Baseline year 2004. 5 Baseline year 2016. 6 FTEs are calculated on an average basis including contractors. 7 Green: on track; Amber: improvements required. 82 GHG emissions renewable energy. In various branches in Switzerland, we have In line with our climate strategy, we aim to reduce our GHG replaced oil heating systems with geothermal heat pumps and footprint 75% by 2020 compared to 2004. district heating with heat from waste incineration plants. Our strategy to reduce GHG emissions is based on increasing In 2019, we cut UBS’s GHG footprint by another 21%, or energy efficiency, replacing fossil fuel-based heating systems 26% per full-time employee, year on year. This is a total with renewable heating systems and increasing our share of reduction of 71% since 2004. 83 Driving change in business Sustainable real estate Collaboration is at the core of our culture, and a key to our The building infrastructure directly impacts our environmental success. We are committed to creating smart and engaging footprint. Taking a building life cycle perspective, we apply our workspaces that bring employees closer together and focused environmental consideration before we enter a new building on increased productivity and more frequent interaction. and until we exit the building. To reduce our impact on the Transitioning to an agile desk sharing work space in our environment, we have adopted well-recognized green building newest build outs in our campus in Lincoln Harbor enables us to standards, such as LEED (Leadership in Energy and reduce our real estate footprint. We are in the process of Environmental Design) or local green building standards, to attaining a LEED certification for these new spaces. manage our real estate's environmental aspect, including green lease. Across our global building portfolio, eight projects achieved LEED certification in 2019. In India Pune EON, our office has been certified to LEED Platinum. It was designed to optimize energy consumption which helps us reduce our environmental footprint. In this newly built office, we achieved 57% energy saving in lighting over the LEED baseline. 84 Energy consumption and lighting). To ensure successful implementation, as well as For the last decade, we have managed to consistently reduce for monitoring purposes, we have externally audited and our energy consumption. In 2019, we used 556 GWh, which is certified the accuracy of our energy reporting (ISO 14064), equal to a reduction in energy consumption of 5% compared to document successful building projects with LEED certificates and 2018. This success was mainly driven by environmental as well constantly review and update quantitative targets. as energy management measures. We pursue a holistic Global IT demand has drastically increased over the years. approach, incorporating all levels of our organization. For However, we have achieved significant improvements in IT example, through strategic measures at company level, like the operational efficiencies. Strategic programs include targeted adaption of energy composition, adaptive measures in transformation to next-generation networks, modernization and portfolio management (such as consolidating workspaces in virtualization of the global server estate. Consolidation of energy-efficient buildings and alternative workplace concepts) or desktop computers to centrally based systems within data stricter procurement guidelines, we set the framework for centers has also significantly reduced desktop power and continued improvement. This strategic orientation is then hardware requirements. Although business demand in 2019 has implemented throughout the firm, leading to tangible changes increased by 10% for computers and by 36% for storage, the in the whole organization. Thereby, we implement smaller technology refresh strategy and virtualization programs have measures like switching to LEDs, refurbishing windows or meant that data center power demand has remained stable. optimizing building services (such as heating, cooling, ventilation 85 Driving change in business Renewable energy renewable sources in various countries around the globe, such In order to strengthen our commitment to limiting the effects of as Germany, the UK and Austria. In 2019, we signed a longclimate change and enabling the orderly transition to a lowterm solar energy deal in Singapore, which will locally supply carbon economy, we joined the RE100 initiative in September renewable energy to support our operations in Singapore over 2015. By mid-2020, we will source 100% of our electricity from the next 10 years. renewable sources, which will help reduce our GHG footprint by As part of the effort to meet UBS’s global RE 100 75% compared to 2004. commitment, we signed an agreement to purchase Where possible, we try to produce our own renewable approximately 135,000 renewable energy credits (RECs) to electricity for the buildings we occupy. match our 2019 electricity consumption in twelve countries In 2019, 72% of UBS’s worldwide electricity consumption across the Americas region, including Brazil, Canada, Chile, was drawn from renewable sources. In Switzerland we started Colombia, Mexico and the US. over 12 years ago and have been sourcing electricity from 100% RE 100 RE100 is a global initiative launched by The Climate Group in partnership with CDP, urging the world's most influential companies to commit to source 100% of their electricity from renewable sources. RE100 brings together more than 200 multinationals committed to 100% renewable electricity. 86 Business travel and offsetting CO2 emissions Business travel is a necessary part of the way we work, and is regarded as an enabler for business. Nevertheless, we continue to challenge ourselves on the need, frequency and type of travel. Working with partners that invest in sustainable aviation fuel (SAF), improved waste management (in the air and on the ground) and more fuel-efficient aircraft fleets, we maintain a keen interest in lowering the carbon intensity of our business travel. Over the years, we have taken many steps to encourage the use of collaborative work tools, like Skype or video conference, in order to reduce the need to travel. Overall demand management as well as general behavioral change have led to a 19% reduction in air spend, non-client-related air travel was reduced by 30%. In addition, high-speed rail travel has increased by 5%, compared to 2018. Since 2007, we have been offsetting all of our CO2 emissions from business air travel. We currently support two major wind power Gold Standard projects in Europe and Asia, reducing the same amount of CO2 emissions and contributing to local sustainable development. We encourage the shift to electric mobility and are expanding our e-charging stations in Switzerland and Germany. This gives our employees and clients the opportunity to charge their electric or hybrid cars with renewable energy while on site. Gold Standard Gold Standard was established in 2003 by WWF and other international non-governmental organizations to ensure projects that reduced carbon emissions featured the highest levels of environmental integrity, are trustful, verifiable and make measurable contributions to sustainable development. 87 Driving change in business Paper are also moving away from paper internally. Our digitalization Our total paper consumption is at an all-time low and is efforts here involve creating digital copies of paper-based composed of 36% copier or printer paper, 36% client output, information, through scanning and machine-reading 16% publications and the remainder are for various paper technologies turning paper into data. Simplifying, automating products. Globally, around 83% of our paper consumption and digitizing processes leads to more efficiency and originates from recycled sources or those certified by the Forest effectiveness. Many of our meeting rooms have video capability Stewardship Council (FSC). UBS has been using paper from which saves the need to print multiple presentations. sustainable sources since 2006. Our Digital Mailroom program is a further concrete example Digitalization brings environmental, economic and client of our sustainable engagement. The objective of this program is experience benefits. The more digitally based online services we to support the implementation of our digital office strategy, by offer to our clients, the more we improve our efforts to go digitizing all physical inbound mail and therefore allowing paperless. In September 2019, our active UBS Digital Banking integrated and digital processing within the bank. clients in Booking Center Switzerland were informed that bank Over the past year, our Secure Print team has been working documents, credit card and prepaid card invoices would be sent on installing 8,400 new secure printers in UBS offices in 32 UBS to them digitally. By going digital, documents are now available countries around the world. This helps preventing accidental faster and the environmental impact is reduced significantly. We extra printing. 88 Waste and recycling being replaced with glass and aluminum product alternatives. “Single-use” was named word of the year by Collins Dictionary We removed the option to choose disposables for internal in 2018. Global awareness on the adverse impact of single-use catering orders. plastic and plastics waste streams – which harm wildlife, pollute UBS technology is constantly changing and evolving, from beaches and threaten our food security – has continued to end user desktop computers to servers, storage, networks and increase since. the data center physical infrastructure itself. Our asset recovery We have implemented a variety of strategies across our firm program includes hardware and peripheral components from to reduce waste and increase the amount of reused and recycled both our data centers and office buildings. On occasion, these products. At the beginning of 2019, we started to remove changes require the decommissioning and disposal of hardware, single-use (plastic) items globally. We eliminated disposable which is always performed in alignment with the ISO 14001 coffee and water cups in office kitchens with a limited number standard by our accredited, licensed global providers. of compostable coffee cups being made available if necessary. With all these activities, we are looking to drastically reduce Employees have been encouraged to bring their own reusable our amount of waste, specifically the plastic and non-recyclable coffee mugs and water bottles to support this effort, and our material found in all our locations worldwide. In 2019, 51% of firm has either provided reusable mugs or sold branded mugs, waste produced in UBS locations was recycled. water bottles and reusable cutlery to support these initiatives. Plastic bottles in vending machines and other points of sale are Water Reporting standards and methodologies Water, both waste and clean, is a central focus of our We have prepared our GHG reporting in accordance with key environmental program. We are determined to reduce the concepts and requirements stated by the International overall usage of fresh water at. Many measures have been Organization for Standardization in ISO 14064-1 (specification taken, ranging from water-saving fittings to rainwater collection. with guidance at the organization level for quantification and To ensure continuous reduction in water consumption, rules reporting of GHG emissions and removals) and the World have been implemented for procurement, building utility Business Council for Sustainable Development / World Resources replacements and new developments, thus allowing for longInstitute in the Greenhouse Gas Protocol Corporate Accounting term refinement. Adequate disposal of wastewater is also a and Reporting Standard. priority. Negative environmental impacts, especially Our firm’s environmental and GHG reporting has been ecotoxicology, loading of waterbodies with nitrogen and prepared based on a reporting year of 1 July to 30 June. This phosphorus as well as public health are taken into consideration. differs from UBS’s financial reporting period (1 January to Overall, we reduced our water usage by 52% since 2009. 31 December). 89 Driving change in business All GHG emission figures are in tons of carbon dioxide Where possible, fuel or energy use is based on direct equivalents (CO2e) and include three of the six GHGs covered by measurement, purchase invoices or actual mileage data covering the Kyoto Protocol – carbon dioxide (CO2), methane (CH4) and more than 80% of our reported energy usage. In other cases it nitrous oxide (N2O). We have omitted hydrofluorocarbon (HFC) has been necessary to make estimations. emissions from our reporting, as they are not a material source We used published national conversion factors and global of GHGs for the business. There are no GHG sources warming potentials (GWPs) to calculate emissions from contributing to perfluorocarbons (PFCs) and sulphurhexafluoride operations. In the absence of any such national data, we used (SF6) emissions. the UK Government GHG Conversion Factors for Company Direct GHG emissions and indirect GHG emissions from Reporting for the calculation of GHG emissions. electricity have been reported by UBS Group AG, its branches, The GHG base year was set as 2004 (July 2003 to June 2004), representative offices and entities where UBS has operational as this was the first year we reported detailed GHG emissions control and through which UBS conducts its banking and verified according to ISO 14064. The 2004 GHG footprint finance business or provides services in support of such business. baseline is 360,502 tons and consists of 41,858 tons scope 1, Based on the GHG protocol Scope 2 Guidance and Scope 3 219,727 tons net scope 2, and 98,918 tons scope 3 emissions. Standard, energy consumption for heating purposes of leased The appropriateness of the base year is reviewed on an annual space, where UBS does not have any operational control of the basis. In 2006, we set global quantitative objectives for energy, heating system, is classified as other indirect GHG emissions. paper, waste and water for 2009. They were revised and We have determined the GHG emissions associated with UBS extended three times so far and covered the periods 2009 until activities on the basis of measured or estimated energy and fuel 2012 and 2012 until 2016. The current quantitative objectives use, multiplied by relevant GHG emission factors. have 2016 as a baseline and 2020 as a target year. 90 Environmental indicators1 20192 20182 20172 Absolute Absolute Absolute GRI3 normalized4 Data quality5 Trend6 normalized4 normalized4 Total direct and intermediate energy consumption7 302 556 GWh ***  584 GWh 627 GWh Total direct energy consumption8 302 55 GWh ***  60 GWh 68 GWh natural gas 87.2% ***  88.0% 84.8% heating oil 7.4% ***  7.9% 10.4% fuels (petrol, diesel, gas) 4.6% ***  3.7% 4.4% renewable energy (solar power, etc.) 0.8% ***  0.4% 0.4% Total intermediate energy purchased9 302 501 GWh ***  524 GWh 559 GWh electricity 436 GWh ***  457 GWh 491 GWh electricity from gas-fired power stations 10.1% ***  13.9% 15.2% electricity from oil-fired power stations 1.8% ***  2.3% 2.5% electricity from coal-fired power stations 11.9% ***  16.5% 16.7% electricity from nuclear power stations 4.6% ***  8.2% 9.6% electricity from hydroelectric power stations 35.8% ***  35.6% 34.6% electricity from other renewable resources 35.8% ***  23.5% 21.4% heat (e.g., district heating) 65 GWh **  67 GWh 68 GWh Share of electricity from renewable sources 302 72% ***  59% 56% Total business travel 459 m Pkm ***  532 m Pkm 579 m Pkm rail travel10 2.4% ***  2.2% 1.9% road travel10 1.1% ***  1.0% 1.6% air travel 96.5% ***  96.8% 96.4% Number of flights (segments) 218,679 ***  246,107 250,743 Total paper consumption 301 5,370 t ***  5,852 t 5,866 t post-consumer recycled 21.9% ***  14.1% 14.9% new fibers FSC11 61.5% ***  65.7% 75.9% new fibers ECF + TCF11 16.5% ***  20.2% 9.2% new fibers chlorine-bleached 0.02% **  0.04% 0.07% Total waste 306 10,749 t ***  11,252 t 12,543 t valuable materials separated and recycled 51.1% ***  50.8% 55.0% incinerated 16.1% ***  16.0% 16.9% landfilled 32.7% **  33.2% 28.1% Total water consumption 303 0.79 m m3 **  0.79 m m3 0.87 m m3 Greenhouse Gas (GHG) Emissions in CO2e 305 Direct GHG emissions (Scope 1)12 10,574 t ***  11,522 t 13,305 t Gross indirect GHG emissions (Gross Scope 2)12 142,636 t ***  150,957 t 161,349 t Gross other indirect GHG emissions (Gross Scope 3)12 62,585 t ***  71,389 t 76,763 t Total Gross GHG Emissions 215,794 t ***  233,868 t 251,417 t GHG reductions from renewable energy13 (69,175) t ***  (51,742) t (49,247) t CO2e offsets (business air travel)14 (42,949) t ***  (50,166) t (54,412) t Total Net GHG Emissions (GHG Footprint)15 103,670 t ***  131,960 t 147,757 t Legend: GWh = giga watt hour; Pkm = person kilometer; t = ton; m3 = cubic meter; m = million; CO2e = CO2 equivalents 1 All figures are based on the level of knowledge as of January 2020. 2 Reporting period: 2019 (1 July 2018 – 30 June 2019), 2018 (1 July 2017 – 30 June 2018), 2017 (1 July 2016 – 30 June 2017) 3 Reference to GRI Sustainability Reporting Standards (see also www.globalreporting.org). 4 Non-significant discrepancies from 100% are possible due to roundings. 5 Specifies the estimated reliability of the aggregated data and corresponds approximately to the following uncertainty (confidence level 95%): up to 5% – ***, up to 15% – **, up to 30% – *. Uncertainty is the likely difference between a reported value and a real value. 6 Trend: at a ***/**/* data quality, the respective trend is stable () if the variance equals 5/10/15%, low decreasing / increasing (,) if it equals 10 /20/30% and decreasing / increasing if the variance is bigger than 10/20/30% (,). 7 Refers to energy consumed within the operational boundaries of UBS. 8 Refers to primary energy purchased that is consumed within the operational boundaries of UBS (oil, gas, fuels). 9 Refers to energy purchased that is produced by converting primary energy and consumed within the operational boundaries of UBS (electricity and district heating). 10 Rail and road travel: Switzerland only. 11 Paper produced from new fibers. FSC stands for Forest Stewardship Council, ECF for Elementary Chlorine Free and TCF for Totally Chlorine Free. 12 Refers to ISO 14064 and the “GHG (greenhouse gas) protocol initiative” (www.ghgprotocol.org), the international standards for GHG reporting: scope 1 accounts for direct GHG emissions by UBS; gross scope 2 accounts for indirect GHG emissions associated with the generation of imported / purchased electricity (grid average emission factor), heat or steam; gross scope 3 accounts for other indirect GHG emissions associated with business travel, paper consumption and waste disposal. 13 GHG savings by consuming electricity from renewable sources 14 Offsets from third-party GHG reduction projects measured in CO2 equivalents (CO2e). These offsets neutralize GHG emission from our business air travel. 15 GHG footprint equals gross GHG emissions minus GHG reductions from renewable energy and CO2e offsets. 91 Driving change in business Environmental indicators per full time employee Unit 2019 Trend 2018 2017 Direct and intermediate energy kWh / FTE 8,081  9,080 10,151 Business travel Pkm / FTE 6,670  8,272 9,377 Paper consumption kg / FTE 78  91 95 Waste kg / FTE 156  175 203 Water consumption m3 / FTE 11.5  12.3 14 CO2 footprint t / FTE 1.51  2.05 2.39 Legend: FTE = full-time employee; kWh = kilo watt hour; Pkm = person kilometer; kg = kilogram; m3 = cubic meter; t = ton Note: FTEs are calculated on an average basis including FTEs that were employed through third parties on short term contracts. 92 Responsible supply chain management social risks. Such high-impact vendors are requested to fulfill further requirements towards product and service provision and We embed environmental and social standards into our sourcing are assessed against the UBS Responsible Supply Chain and procurement activities. Our firm-wide responsible supply Standard. If this assessment reveals any non-compliance with chain management (RSCM) framework is based on identifying, our standard, UBS defines and agrees, together with the vendor, assessing and monitoring vendor practices in the areas of human on specific improvement measures, which we monitor. Lack of and labor rights, the environment, health and safety and antiimprovement may lead to the termination of the vendor corruption, in line with our commitment to the UN Global relationship. We also regularly screen active vendors as part of Compact and the UBS in society constitutional document. our environmental and social risk control processes. In 2019, remediation measures were requested for 18 Vendors of potentially high-impact goods or services are vendors that provide UBS with goods and services with high risk. requested to conduct a self-assessment on their responsible Improving their adherence to UBS’s RSCM standards has a management practices and to provide corresponding evidence. potentially high positive impact. Actual and potential negative impacts that are considered in the impact assessment of purchased goods and services include: Committing our vendors to our standards  Adverse environmental impacts due to inefficient use of We aim to reduce negative environmental and social effects of resources (e.g., water, energy, biomass) and emissions during the goods and services UBS purchases and we engage with the lifecycle of the product vendors to promote responsible practices. A central component  Hazardous substances, emissions, pollutants and limited of our RSCM framework is the UBS Responsible Supply Chain recyclability of products, adversely affecting people and the Standard to which our direct vendors are bound by contract. The environment standard defines our expectations towards vendors and their  Unfair employment practices, such as low wages, excessive subcontractors regarding legal compliance, environmental overtime, absence of occupational health and safety protection, avoidance of child and forced labor, nonmeasures discrimination, remuneration, hours of work, freedom of  Risks for consumer health and safety association, humane treatment, health and safety and anti Procurement and use of materials with a strongly negative corruption issues and a whistleblowing mechanism to support environmental and/or social impact and protect employees.  Insufficient management of subcontractors regarding  Refer to the “Our documents” page on www.ubs.com/insociety sustainability aspects to download the Responsible Supply Chain Standard in various languages In 2019, 103 vendors were classified as vendors that provide UBS with goods or services with potentially high impacts, both Identifying, assessing and monitoring high-impact vendors newly sourced as well as ongoing engagements, which are The RSCM framework includes an impact assessment of newly regularly re-assessed. 17% of these vendors were considered as sourced goods and services, which takes into account potential in need of improving their management practices. Specific negative environmental and social impacts along the lifecycle of remediation actions were agreed with all of them and the a product or a service, and all purchased goods and services are implementation progress has been closely monitored. categorized accordingly. In 2019, no UBS vendor relationship was terminated as a We identify high-impact vendors when establishing new result of RSCM assessments. This can partly be related to the contracts or renewals based on the vendors’ provision of goods fact that we assess the vendor’s potential risks before entering and services that have either a substantial environmental and into a contract with them. social impact or are sourced in markets with potentially high 93 Driving change in business Combating financial crime corruption framework meets global requirements to prevent and detect bribery as defined by ISO, and it evidences UBS’s We are committed to combating money laundering, corruption commitment. The ISO certification is renewed annually and is and terrorist financing and have implemented policies, the result of UBS proactively engaging an accredited ISO auditor. procedures and internal controls that are designed to comply The ISO standard requires a series of measures which are aimed with such laws and regulations. We have developed a financial at preventing, detecting and addressing bribery. Such measures crime prevention framework that is intended to prevent, detect include, but are not limited to: policies and procedures, culture and report money laundering, corruption and terrorist financing. and tone from the top, appropriate resourcing, training, risk We annually assess the money laundering, bribery and assessments, third party due diligence, and implementing corruption, and sanctions risks associated with all of our appropriate controls. business operations against our control framework, and take  Refer to the “Assurance and certification” section for the ISO actions to further mitigate these risks. 37001:2016 certificate We are a founding member of the Wolfsberg Group, an association of global banks that aims to develop financial Monitoring services industry standards for policies on preventing financial We apply Know Your Client rules and use advanced technology crime such as corruption, money laundering and terrorist to help identify suspicious transaction patterns and compliance financing, and on Know Your Client principles. The Wolfsberg risk issues. Group brings together banks globally at its annual forum and We continue to invest in our detection capabilities and core regional reach-out meetings focused on financial crime topics systems as part of our financial crime prevention program. and works on guidance papers in related key areas of AML. Our framework requires any suspicious activities to be Together with the other members of the Wolfsberg Group, promptly escalated to independent control units and external we work closely with the Financial Action Task Force (FATF), an authorities, as required by law. Our monitoring framework intergovernmental body that helps develop national and covers risk-based transaction monitoring, real-time screening international policies on preventing money laundering and and retroactive searches. The UBS AML monitoring framework is terrorist financing through consultation with the private sector. established in accordance with the Monitoring Screening and We have adopted the global FATF standards with respect to Searching Wolfsberg Statement and is reviewed on an annual record keeping. basis. In 2019, we have successfully achieved ISO certification in  Refer to the “Our governance and principles” section for accordance with ISO standard Anti Bribery Management System information about combating financial crime governance and 37001:2016. The audit certifies that UBS’s global anti-bribery & policies 94 Ratings and recognitions the best performer in the Diversified Financial Services and Capital Markets Industry of the Dow Jones Sustainability Index In 2019, we continued to gain industry recognition for our (DJSI), the most widely recognized corporate sustainability commitment to improving performance under ESG criteria and rating. MSCI ESG Research maintained our rating at AA, while for our efforts in offering clients world-class expertise and Sustainalytics ranked our firm as an industry leader. sustainable products. For the fifth year running, we were named Ratings and recognitions1 Ratings and recognitions Scope UBS result Dow Jones Sustainability Indices (DJSI) Environmental, social and governance (ESG) Industry leader performance Index member of DJSI World and DJSI Europe CDP Climate change Climate Arating (on Leadership band)2 Sustainalytics ESG performance Leader score within our industry 95th percentile ranking MSCI ESG performance AA rating Top three among primary peer group3 ISS-ESG ESG performance Corporate responsibility prime status FTSE4Good Index ESG performance Index member Euromoney Private Banking and Wealth Philanthropic advice Winner Management Survey 2019 Euromoney Private Banking and Wealth SRI / Social impact investing Winner Management Survey 2019 PWM / The Banker Global Private Sustainable investing Winner Banking Awards 2019 Environmental Finance Sustainable Best ESG Hybrid Fund Winner Investment Awards 2019 Environmental Finance Sustainable Best ESG Initiative of the Year Winner Investments Awards 2019 GRESB Real Estate, Debt and Sustainability performance of real asset portfolios Submission of 20 of REPM’s (Real Estate & Private Infrastructure assessments worldwide Markets) flagship funds (across real estate equity, real estate debt and infrastructure globally), representing 95% of REPM’s direct pooled real estate and infrastructure vehicles globally. 15 real estate and infrastructure funds achieved 5-star status, the highest recognition available ShareAction Stewardship AM ranked as the leading asset manager globally for voting on climate-related resolutions 95 Driving change in business Ratings and recognitions (continued) Ratings and recognitions Scope UBS result Corporate Engagement Awards Community investment Gold for Best Educational Programme Best alignment of brand values through sponsorship activity Better Society Awards (UK) Community investment Highly Commended for Commitment to Local Community Global Good Awards (UK) Community investment Gold for Community Partnerships in Education and Entrepreneurships Silver Award in the Best Education Project category for UBS’s 10 year partnership with The Bridge Academy 2019 Top 10 Enterprises for Public Community investment Winner of the Charity Award Welfare (China) Japan Corporate Philanthropy Award Community investment Grand Prix of the Award (Japan) Employer of Tomorrow Award (Polish Employment-related and community investment Winner Agency for Enterprise Development) World’s Most Attractive Employers Employment-related Top 50 (Universum) Bloomberg Gender-Equality Index Employment-related Index member Working Mother magazine's 100 Best Employment-related Top 100 Companies (US) Best Places to Work for LGBT Equality Employment-related 15th consecutive year (Human Rights Campaign), US The Times Top 100 Graduate Employers Employment-related Top 100 (UK) Best HR Center of Expertise in Greater Employment-related Winner China Award (HRoot 2019) 1 All information provided is as of 31 December 2019, except where indicated. 2 As of 20 January 2020 3 As defined in the UBS Compensation Report 2019 96 97 Driving change in communities Driving change in communities Overview Our contributions in 2019 Our Community Affairs framework is global in scope and At UBS, we are committed to making a lasting impact by delivers both community and business impact in each of the addressing and overcoming disadvantage within our local regions in which we operate. The globally mandated strategy is communities. Our Community Affairs programs enable us to flexible in nature, and regional execution of the strategy ensures achieve this commitment. Through successful and sustainable we are aligning our programs to address local community issues partnerships with non-profit organizations and social enterprises, and support business priorities. The impact of our Community we make long-term investments into education and Affairs program is driven by both financial donations and hours entrepreneurship. We provide strategic financial commitments volunteered by our employees. and focused employee volunteering to drive change. We use a global framework, based on the industry-leading We believe every individual plays a role in ensuring a healthy London Benchmarking Group (LBG) model, for measuring and and thriving future for our communities. This is why we offer reporting on our Community Affairs programs and investments. UBS employees two days of paid leave to volunteer each year. Use of such a standardized model across our global strategy Our focus on skills-based volunteering aims to address issues ensures that we are able to effectively focus our approach. within society that hinder sustainable growth and development.  Refer to www.ubs.com/insociety for more information 98 – Cash – direct cash contributions from the firm, including – Community investment – long-term strategic involvement support through its affiliated foundations in Switzerland and in community partnerships in the areas of education and the UBS Anniversary Education Initiative and contributions to entrepreneurship. 88% of UBS’s Community Affairs grants the UBS Optimus Foundation.1 were made in these areas. – Employee time – the cost to UBS of the time that employees – Commercial initiative – activities in the community, to spend on community programs during working hours. This is directly support the success of the company, promoting calculated by multiplying the number of volunteer hours corporate brand identities and other policies, in partnership during working hours by the average hourly salary. with charities and community-based organizations. – In-kind – contributions of products, equipment, services and – Charitable gifts – intermittent support to a wide range of other non-cash items from the company to the community. good causes in response to the needs and appeals of For UBS, this is primarily the cost of making our premises charitable and community organizations. This includes our available to our partner charities for events. programs to match employee donations. – Management overheads – the cost associated with the firm’s Community Affairs function. 1 All cash contributions shown here are recognized on a cash rather than accrual basis. The cash contribution does not include contributions totaling USD 513,845 which are required by law (India and South Africa). This is consistent with LBG methodology. Separately (see page 48 of this report), we recognize UBS Optimus Foundation contributions on an accrual basis reflecting committed grants made in the reporting period. 99 Driving change in communities Employee volunteering social enterprises through mentoring and supporting the career In 2018, we made a commitment to our local communities by aspirations of local students. Leveraging the specialized skills and setting a target to achieve 40% of employees volunteering by talents of our employees is key to the success of our program the end of 2020, of which 40% of volunteer hours will be skillsand to our business. based. By encouraging our employee volunteering efforts towards Progress against 2020 target skills-based volunteering, we ensure that we work to tackle local social issues in the most powerful and effective way. Our skillsWe are making progress towards our 2020 target, and at the based volunteering programs include building the capacity of end of 2019, 38% of our global workforce volunteered, with 48% of the hours being skills-based. Target 2020 2019 2018 2017 Number of employees volunteering 27,297 25,256 20,140 % employees engaged 40% 38% 36% 31% Number of volunteer hours 202,784 197,807 168,226 % hours that are skills-based 40% 48% 45% 38% 100 Measuring Impact Individual beneficiaries in 2019 Our strategic focus is on education and entrepreneurship. We Our Community Affairs program benefited 280,858 young offer programs which support young people globally, to help people and entrepreneurs across all of the regions in which we increase their educational attainment and acquire workplace operate. skills. We also work with entrepreneurs to help them build and We also measure the extent to which our support has scale businesses that tackle unemployment and revitalize benefitted them (i.e., by using the LBG depth of impact scale in underserved communities. Many of our offices focus on social the figure below). Measuring based on this model has shown entrepreneurship, supporting businesses that have social impact that UBS’s support has substantively improved or transformed at the heart of their business model. the lives of 107,388 individuals in 2019. This represents 38% of UBS uses the global LBG framework to capture data from our the number of beneficiaries for whom depth of impact was Community Affairs partners on the impact that UBS’s reported. contributions have made. 101 Driving change in communities Impacting organizations in 2019 36 intermediary organizations supported by UBS that are building 1,742 third-party organizations reached by UBS’s support for the capacity of charities, social enterprises and social sector intermediary organizations organizations 2025 goal employees in skills-based volunteering. Our work will focus on supporting three UN Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs) We know that long-term change can only be achieved by setting specifically: SDG 4 Quality Education, SDG 8 Decent work and long term and impactful targets. In 2020, for the first time, we economic growth and SDG 10 Reduced inequalities. are setting a long-term target on the change that we want to We will continue to use our depth of impact scale (see above) make. to report both, the number of beneficiaries we have reached, Our 2025 goal is to support 1 million young people and and the extent to which our support has changed lives. We also adults to learn, and develop skills for employment, decent jobs have a 2020 target to maintain 38% of beneficiaries whose lives and entrepreneurship by 2025. We recognize this is best are improved or transformed by UBS's support. achieved through strategic grant funding and by engaging our 102 Our sustainability track record 1954 Beginnings of Community Affairs at Wealth Management US 1962 Establishment of Union Bank of Switzerland’s 100th anniversary foundation (since 1999: UBS Culture Foundation) 1971 Launch of A Helping Hand from UBS Employees (UBS Mitarbeiter helfen) in Switzerland 1972 Establishment of Swiss Bank Corporation’s 100-year anniversary foundation (since 1999: UBS Foundation for Social Issues and Education) 1978 Beginnings of Community Affairs in EMEA 1982 Establishment of first energy-functional unit 1988 Co-founding member of Business in the Community in the UK 1989 First bank in Switzerland with the position of environmental officer 1992 First formal energy guidelines 1993 Among the first signatories of the United Nations Environment Programme bank declaration (UNEP FI) 1994 Introduction of first environmental policy 1995 Publication of first environmental report and introduction of environmental credit assessment procedure for Swiss corporate clients 1996 Introduction of employee volunteering at Wealth Management US and of matched-giving scheme for London employees 1997 Launch of Socially Responsible Investment (SRI) Funds Establishment of the Investment Bank Community Affairs in Stamford (monetary and in-kind donations, and employee volunteering). 1998 Merger of Union Bank of Switzerland and Swiss Bank Corporation to create UBS 1999 Founding member of Wolfsberg Group First bank to obtain ISO 14001 certification for worldwide environmental management system in banking business and launch of Environmental Risk Policy in the Investment Bank Establishment of UBS Optimus Foundation 2000 UBS among first companies to sign UN Global Compact Wolfsberg Group Anti-Money Laundering (AML) Principles for Private Banking (revised 2002) UBS commences reporting on corporate responsibility in Annual Report 2001 Establishment of Corporate Responsibility Committee, a Board of Directors committee, and publication of first Corporate Responsibility section in Annual Report Establishment of a Global Diversity Steering Committee within the Investment Bank Founding member of European Social Investment Forum (Eurosif) Wolfsberg Group Commitment against Terrorism Employee volunteering time-off policy introduced for London employees 2002 Wolfsberg Group Statement on Fight against Financing of Terrorism and AML Principles for Correspondent Banking Launch of Group-wide Diversity initiative Founding signatory of CDP (originally known as Carbon Disclosure Project) Commencement of joint Wealth Management and Investment Bank Community Affairs in Chicago Expansion of in-house environmental program to Corporate Services outside Switzerland 2003 First financial services firm to formally register interest as an academy sponsor in the UK (leads to the opening of the The Bridge Academy, Hackney, in 2007) Institution of NGO communications and analysis function 2004 Establishment of SRI Equity Research in the Investment Bank 103 Our sustainability track record 2005 Establishment of coordination function for Community Affairs in Switzerland Setting up of UBS Tsunami Relief Fund UBS commences social reporting in Annual Report (section on employees) 2006 Introduction of climate strategy Adoption of UBS Statement on Human Rights Wolfsberg Group releases Investment Banking FAQs, Guidance for Mutual Funds and Pooled Vehicles, Correspondent Banking FAQs and Guidance on the Risk-Based Approach 2007 Establishment of SRI Research in Global WMBB Wolfsberg Group Statement against Corruption and Wolfsberg Group Statement on Transparency in International Payments First company-wide volunteering at Wealth Management US 2008 Introduction of group-wide Responsible Supply Chain Guideline Wolfsberg Group Revised PEP FAQs 2009 UBS applies Global Reporting Initiative (GRI) framework to its 2008 non-financial disclosure UBS’s Sustainability Disclosure 2008 meets the requirements of level A+ of the GRI (continued in subsequent years) UBS Asset Management becomes a signatory to the Principles for Responsible Investment (PRI) 2010 Launch of UBS’s new Code of Business Conduct and Ethics Publication of UBS Position on Controversial Activities 2011 Convener of Thun Group of Banks on banking and human rights Establishment of UBS Environmental & Social Risk Committee Awarded with UK Big Society Award (established by the UK Prime Minister) 2012 UBS celebrates its 150th anniversary Setting up of the UBS International Center of Economics in Society at the University of Zurich Global roll-out of the Investment Bank’s environmental, social and governance (ESG) Analyzer 2013 Thun Group launches discussion paper on banking and human rights Renewal of climate strategy 2014 Introduction of UBS Environmental and Human Rights Policy Launch of UBS and Society, UBS’s sustainability organization Publication of UBS’s comprehensive Environmental and Social Risk Framework document UBS’s Sustainability Disclosure 2013 meets the requirements of GRI G4 comprehensive 2015 Dow Jones Sustainability Indices (DJSI) industry group leadership Appointment of Head UBS and Society 2016 DJSI industry group leadership maintained Introduction of UBS and Society Policy (replacing and expanding upon UBS Environmental and Human Rights Policy) 2017 DJSI industry group leadership maintained for third year running UBS and Society constitutional document (replaces UBS and Society policy) UBS unveils a blueprint for channeling private wealth towards the UN SDGs at the World Economic Forum Annual Meeting in Davos UBS joins UN working group on TFCD implementation to help banks disclose their exposures to climate-related risks and opportunities 2018 Listed as number 1 market player for sustainable investments in Switzerland according to the Swiss sustainable investment market study 2018 DJSI industry group leadership maintained for fourth year running MSCI ESG increased rating of UBS from A to AA UBS and Society renamed into UBS in society 2019 DJSI industry group leadership and MSCI ESG rating of AA maintained Appointment of Head Sustainable Finance  Refer to www.ubs.com/history for information on the history of UBS 104 Assurance and certification Independent assurance report by EY 105 Assurance and certification 106 ISO 14001 and 50001 certificates received the first ISO 50001 certification (energy management system standard) in 2017. The integrated management system is UBS is globally certified according to ISO 14001, the externally audited annually and re-certified every three years. international environmental management system standard. These comprehensive audits verify that appropriate policies In 1999, UBS was the first bank to obtain ISO 14001 certification and processes are in place to manage environmental and for its worldwide environmental management system. The energy-related topics and that they are executed in day-to-day management system covers the entire scope of UBS’s products, practice. services and in-house operations that may give rise to an In 2019, UBS successfully passed the ISO 14001 and ISO environmental impact. Additionally, we have further developed 50001 surveillance audit on its environmental and energy our environmental and energy management system in our management system. European locations in order to be compliant with ISO 50001. We 107 Assurance and certification 108 109 Assurance and certification 110 ISO 37001 certificate 111 Appendix 1 – Governance and policies Charter of the Corporate Culture and Responsibility Committee Excerpt from The Organization Regulations of UBS Group AG (Annex C – Charter for the Committees of the Board of Directors of UBS Group AG) Corporate Culture and Responsibility Committee 7.1 The CCRC supports the Board in its duties to safeguard and advance the Group’s reputation for responsible and sustainable conduct. In general Its function is forward-looking in that it monitors and reviews societal trends and transformational developments and assesses their potential relevance for the Group. In undertaking this assessment, it reviews stakeholder concerns and expectations pertaining to the societal performance of UBS and to the development of its corporate culture. The CCRC’s function also encompasses the monitoring of the current state and implementation of the programs and initiatives within the Group pertaining to corporate culture and corporate responsibility. 7.2 The CCRC’s responsibilities and authorities are to: Responsibilities and authorities (i) General: (a) monitor and advise the Board on current and emerging societal trends and developments of potential relevance for the Group; (b) review and assess the current state and implementation of the corporate culture and corporate responsibility programs and initiatives within the Group; and (c) monitor the consistent application of the behaviors of integrity, challenge and collaboration within UBS; (ii) Policies and regulations: (a) monitor and advise the Board on evolving external corporate culture and corporate responsibility regulations, standards and practices; (b) conduct the annual review process for the Code of Conduct and Ethics of UBS and make proposals for amendments to the Board; and (c) review and oversee that policies and guidelines of UBS pertaining to corporate culture and corporate responsibility are relevant and up to date; (ii) Strategy: (a) monitor the effectiveness of actions taken by UBS relating to the corporate culture and responsibility regulations and policies as well as objectives of UBS; (b) support the GEB, if required, in the adjustment of processes pertaining to corporate culture and responsibility; (c) approve UBS in society’s overall strategy and annual objectives and (d) support a strong and responsible corporate culture firmly founded in a spirit of long-term thinking; (iv) Programs and initiatives: oversee UBS’s corporate culture and corporate responsibility programs and initiatives, including: (a) UBS in society; (b) sustainable and impact investing; (c) client philanthropy; (d) environmental and social (including human rights) risk management; (e) climate strategy; (f) in-house environmental management; (g) responsible supply chain management; (h) community affairs; (i) diversity and inclusion; (j) talent management; (k) working environment; and (l) combating financial crime; (v) Communications: (a) advise the Board on the reporting of the Group’s corporate culture and responsibility strategy and activities, review the relevant sections of the Group’s annual report, and provide oversight of the annual UBS sustainability disclosure assurance audit process; and (b) monitor and review communications with stakeholders on corporate culture and corporate responsibility (including with relevant organizations and with sustainability rating and ranking bodies) and their effectiveness with regard to the reputation of the Group. 112 Our Code of Conduct and Ethics In this Code, the Board of Directors and the Group Executive Ignorance of the Code is no excuse Board set out the principles and practices that define our ethical As part of our training, everyone hears about the standards in standards and the way we do business. the Code and learns how to apply them. But we also strongly By following it, we will foster an ethical culture where encourage you to read the Code and get to know it. Not responsible behavior is second nature. We will protect our most knowing the Code is no excuse for violating it. important asset – our reputation. And, ultimately, we will create lasting value for our shareholders. The Code sets the standards Our Boards are fully behind the Code – and needs the whole that help us to make that happen. bank to be behind it, too It is based on three Principles: client focus, which is about The Code has the full backing of the Board of Directors and building relationships that create long-term value, focusing on Group Executive Board. And every one of us needs to make sure investment returns and anticipating and managing conflicts of our day-to-day actions and decisions follow the standards set interest; excellence in everything from our products and services out here. Above all, we must put the interests of UBS, our clients to how we collaborate across the firm to deliver the best of and our shareholders above our own. what UBS has to offer; and sustainable performance, which is Of course, the Code cannot describe every possible situation. about working continuously to strengthen our reputation as a If you find yourself dealing with something unexpected, apply rocksolid firm and provide consistent returns for shareholders. these ethical standards in your judgment and get guidance or It is essential that we all follow these Principles. In short, if we help. do business in the right way, we will be a better business, and an even more successful one. Thank you for your support. The Code applies to everything and everyone Axel A. Weber The Code covers our dealings with stakeholders, clients, Chairman of the Board of Directors counterparties, shareholders, regulators and business partners – and each other. And it is the basis for all our policies, guidelines Sergio P. Ermotti and procedures. Group Chief Executive Officer 113 Appendix 1 – Governance and policies Laws, rules and regulations Tax matters We follow all the laws, rules, regulations and treaties around tax Obeying the law that apply to us, all over the world – not just to the letter, but in We obey the laws, rules and regulations where we live, work their true spirit. We pay and report all taxes due. We report and do business – as well as our own governance documents. information relating to our own tax position and that of our And we cooperate with our regulators, being open and clients and employees as required. transparent in our dealings with them. We will not help our clients or any other party avoid paying the tax that they owe or reporting their income and gains, nor Cross-border business will we support any transactions where we know or shall When we are working across borders, we obey all pertinent presume that the tax outcome is dependent on unrealistic laws, rules and regulations – both at home and abroad. assumptions or the hiding of facts. If we are selling to, buying from, visiting or dealing with We will also not contract with third parties that provide clients from outside our home country, it is our job to services for or on our behalf, where those acts help others to understand what rules, laws or policies apply – and follow them. evade taxes owed. Fair dealing and fair competition Behaving responsibly and ethically We succeed by outperforming our competitors fairly and honestly, not by resorting to unfair or underhand tactics. Values and ethics We don’t stretch, distort or try to hide the facts or the truth. We don’t just follow the laws, rules and regulations in Nor do we use information we are not meant to have to gain an everything we do. We do what is right. We don’t just ask unfair advantage over competitors. ourselves whether what we’re doing is legal, but whether it fits We act fairly, honestly and in good faith with everyone we with our three UBS Behaviors: Integrity, Collaboration and deal with: our clients, business partners, competitors, suppliers, Challenge. the public and each other. And we act in the interest of fair and effective competition Client relationships and respect all the laws, rules and regulations that are designed We look after our clients for the long term, winning their loyalty to create a level playing field for all – including antitrust and by earning their trust. competition laws. We try to anticipate what our clients are going to need before they ask. We go out of our way to give them an Fighting crime exceptional service. We make sure our products and services are We have a duty to contribute to the integrity of the financial adequate for our clients and are sold in a way that is not system, as well as our own business. detrimental to their interests. So we do whatever we can to combat money laundering, And we treat them fairly, and with the same courtesy and corruption and terrorist financing – including imposing global respect, however large or small they may be. sanctions in line with our policy. Conflicts of interest Money laundering We put our clients’ best interests before our own – and UBS’s We have rigorous systems in place to detect, report and stop any interests before our personal interests. And we never let UBS’s suspected money laundering. or our personal interests influence our advice to a client, or our dealings with them. Corruption We have systems to identify and manage potential conflicts We have zero tolerance for corruption or any kind of bribery, of interest. And as soon as we do identify any such conflicts, we including so-called “facilitation payments.” We don’t offer or raise them immediately with our line manager or with Legal or accept improper gifts or payments in the course of our business. Compliance & Operational Risk Control. Criminal activity We carry out due diligence and keep a constant lookout for any suspicious activities, reporting them to senior management as soon as we discover them. And we follow strict Know-YourCustomer regulations. 114 Sharing, using and storing information Creating the right culture Reporting and information sharing Diversity and equal opportunity When we share or report anything, especially financial We believe that people from different backgrounds, with information – to either the public or our regulators – we take different thoughts and opinions, make us a stronger business. great care to make sure it is accurate, up to date and as easy to They bring us valuable new ideas, approaches and experiences. understand as it can be (and in line with any legal or regulatory Regardless of their status, everyone has the same chance to requirements and best practice). get ahead at UBS – whatever their ethnicity, gender, national We maintain an internal control framework that is designed origin, age, ability, sexual orientation or religion. And we work to support the preparation and fair representation of to create a culture where everyone feels they are welcome, consolidated financial statements in accordance with respected and that they are a valuable part of our team – International Financial Reporting Standards (IFRS) and that are whatever part of UBS they work in. free from material misstatement. We do not tolerate any kind of discrimination, bullying or Based on their audit work, our independent external auditors harassment. And we encourage each other to speak up and express an opinion on our internal controls over financial report it through clear channels, without fear of reprisals. reporting as well as on the financial statements themselves. Our internal audit function often provides support to our external Performance and professionalism auditors in discharging their responsibilities, and also assesses Our professionalism, integrity and pursuit of excellence are how the adherence to our strategy and the effectiveness of our we create value for our clients and shareholders. So our governance, risk management and control processes. compensation system is designed to reward long-term value creation by balancing performance and prudent risk-taking with Inside information a focus on conduct and sound risk management practices. We never use inside information (material information that is not We know that our business is only as strong as our people. public) to do anything other than what it was given to us for in So we work hard to create a working environment where talent the first place. can thrive and reach its full potential. Having made every effort to ascertain whether information is inside information, we only ever share such information on a Protecting our assets need-to-know basis. That applies to people inside and outside We keep UBS’s assets safe and secure – from sensitive, UBS, in line with our internal procedures, as well as any relevant confidential information about our business, plans and people to laws, rules and regulations. our intellectual property, systems and equipment, as well as documents, information and other materials belonging to others Client confidentiality that are entrusted or made available to us. That means making Our clients trust us to keep the information they’ve shared with sure that these assets are handled properly and used in line with us safe and secure and only use it in the ways we’ve agreed with relevant laws and regulations and doing what we can to prevent them. them from being lost, stolen, damaged or misused. We retain We follow the highest standards of information security to data to fulfill regulatory retention and legal hold obligations. keep our client information confidential and to protect We will not use such assets for non-UBS business or for our legitimate client privacy rights. We have strict data security own personal advantage. standards and procedures designed to prevent data being tampered with, seen or used by the wrong people, stolen, lost Health and safety or destroyed. We never do anything that might put people in danger or harm We never share our clients’ details with anyone, unless we them in any way – whether they’re colleagues, clients, partners, have their express permission to do so – or where we have a competitors, visitors or anyone else. legal duty to share it with the relevant authorities. And even We keep our workplaces safe by following health and safety within UBS, we will only share client details with those rules. Doing this makes sure we have safe and healthy working colleagues who genuinely need to see it to serve our clients’ best conditions in which our dignity is respected. interests. 115 Appendix 1 – Governance and policies Society and the environment Upholding the Code Integrating financial and societal performance From our Board of Directors down, we live up to this Code at all We integrate financial and societal performance for the mutual times, with no exceptions. benefit of our clients and our firm. UBS will not accept any justification or excuse for breaking it, So we’re constantly looking for better ways to do business in whatever the reason – whether for profit, convenience or an environmentally sound and socially responsible manner. competitive advantage or because a client or someone else That includes monitoring, managing and reducing any asked for it. negative impact we might have on the environment and on human rights. It means managing social and environmental risks Changes to the Code that our own and our clients’ assets are exposed to. And it The Code defines the way we do business. It is reviewed means looking for sustainable investment opportunities, for regularly to make sure it reflects our principles and standards ourselves and our clients. and is consistent with the law. Whenever there’s a change, an announcement goes to every employee. Investing in our communities We constantly look for ways to contribute to the well-being of Affirmation process our local communities – by supporting charitable activities Each of us declares that we have read and affirmed our financially and non-financially, including through our awareness of the Code, as part of our annual affirmation volunteering efforts. process. Violating the Code Speak Up We immediately report any potential violations [of the Code] to Disciplinary procedures our line manager or local investigations officer. We can also Anyone who breaks the rules (whether it is our Code, UBS report them confidentially or anonymously using the policies or outside laws, rules and regulations) will face whistleblowing procedures published on the intranet site consequences – from reprimands and warnings to dismissals. goto/speakup. This includes not only the person who broke the rules, but UBS regards any form of retaliation against whistleblowers to also their line manager and anyone who knew about it but did be unacceptable. not report it. And UBS expects its line managers to escalate and report any And where a violation amounts to criminal behavior, we will violations of laws, rules, regulations, policies, professional not hesitate to bring it to the attention of the relevant standards and the principles of the Code. authorities. Questions about the Code Any questions about any part of this Code, or what it means in practice, should go to the Group General Counsel or the Head of Group Compliance, Regulatory & Governance. 116 UBS in society constitutional document Our Commitment Principles UBS's goal is to be the financial provider of choice for clients The following principles outline how UBS in society promotes wishing to mobilize capital towards the achievement of the the implementation of its commitment to make UBS a force for United Nations Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs) and the driving positive change in society and the environment for future orderly transition to a low-carbon economy (the Paris generations, across four areas: in finance, in philanthropy, in Agreement). We work towards this goal by integrating communities and in our business. sustainability into our mainstream offerings, through new and innovative financial products with a positive effect on the In finance environment and society, and by advising clients on their We're reshaping the landscape of sustainable finance by using philanthropy. And it is through the management of thought leadership, innovation and partnerships to support environmental and social risks, the management of our clients in their sustainability efforts. For: environmental footprint and our sustainability disclosure that we – Private investors: We're helping clients invest in companies continue to set standards in the industry. that use their resources wisely and deliver reliable, long-term Our cross divisional organization, UBS in society, focuses our results. It’s important to us that our clients can invest in what firm on this direction. UBS in society is committed to making they care about, make the difference they desire and still get UBS a force for driving positive change in society and the the returns they are looking for. environment for future generations. It will do so by focusing our – Institutional investors: We're transforming the business of firm on creating long-term positive impact for clients, asset management and taking a long-term perspective by employees, investors and society. Our ambition is to be: establishing sustainable and impact investing as core – A leader in sustainable finance across all client segments components across our offering and solutions. – A recognized innovator and thought leader in philanthropy1 – Corporate organizations: We're offering in-depth research, – An industry leader for sustainable business practices innovative products and expert advice to organizations who – An employer of choice would like to consider environmental, societal and governance criteria in their financing and investing decisions. UBS in society covers all the activities and capabilities related – Swiss businesses: We're creating programs to help Swiss to sustainable finance (including sustainable investing), companies prepare for the new, low-carbon economy. philanthropy, environmental, climate and human rights policies governing client and supplier relationships, our environmental In philanthropy footprint, human resources as well as community investment. It We’re partnering with clients and others for good, by offering is through this cross divisional organization that UBS leverages expert advice, carefully selected programs from UBS Optimus its expertise across all of these areas to drive sustainable Foundation, and innovative social financing mechanisms, so that performance. our clients can make meaningful and measureable impact: We intend to make sustainable performance the standard – UBS Optimus Foundation: We're making a measureable across our firm and part of every client conversation. This means improvement in the lives of world's most vulnerable children. that we will focus on the long term and work to provide From getting more girls into school, to using solar power to appropriate returns to all of our stakeholders in a responsible improve maternal health we're bringing our clients, partners manner. In addition, we are transparent about our targets and and extensive network together to support SDG-focused progress wherever possible to demonstrate our commitment. initiatives with the potential to be transformative, scalable and sustainable. We do this through evidence-based grant Scope making and innovative social finance, finding the most The document defines the principles, governance and controls effective ways to use capital to drive social change. for implementing this commitment. It outlines how UBS is – Philanthropy advisors: We’re dedicated to making the becoming a force for driving positive change – in finance, in philanthropic vision of our clients come to life. From helping philanthropy, in communities and in our business. Our banking them understand where they can begin, to how they can give activities, in-house operations, supply chain management and in the most effective way, our advice is supported by in-depth community interactions are subject to, and must be conducted research. We offer access to a global philanthropist network in compliance with, this commitment. and insight experiences through our Philanthropy Forums and visits to the foundation's programs. 1 Includes client and corporate donations 117 Appendix 1 – Governance and policies In communities – Corporate responsibility: We report openly and transparently We recognize that UBS's long-term success depends on the about our firm's environmental, social, governance (ESG) health and prosperity of the communities of which we are part. performance, including UBS in society, and seek to maintain Our Community Affairs programs represent the firm's open dialogue and active communications with our investment in communities. Our programs seek to overcome stakeholders. disadvantage through long-term investment in education and entrepreneurship. We provide UBS resources (both financial and Responsibilities and Structure employee volunteering) to drive change and create a positive impact. Our approach is to build sustainable and successful The Corporate Culture and Responsibility Committee (CCRC)2 partnerships with non-profit organizations and social enterprises supports the UBS Board of Directors in its duties to safeguard to ensure that our contributions have a lasting impact. and advance the Group’s reputation for responsible and Our Community Affairs framework is global in scope and sustainable conduct. It approves and monitors UBS in society's delivers both community and business impact in each of the overall strategy and annual objectives, reviews that the UBS in regions in which we operate. Regional execution of the global society constitutional document is relevant and up to date, and strategy ensures we are effectively aligning our programs to oversees the program's annual management review. address local community issues and support business priorities. The Group CEO3 supervises the execution of the UBS in society strategy and annual objectives. The Group CEO also In our business informs the Group Executive Board (GEB) and Corporate Culture We’re leading by example in that we challenge ourselves and and Responsibility Committee (CCRC) about UBS in society our peers to raise the bar and be open about the impact our updates as appropriate. actions have on society and the environment. Our focus is on: The Head UBS in society is UBS's senior level representative – Environmental and social risk: We apply an environmental for environmental and sustainability issues. He or she is and social risk (ESR) framework to identify and manage nominated by the Group CEO, chairs the UBS in society Steering potential adverse impacts to the environment, the climate Committee, is a member of the Global Environmental Social Risk and to human rights as well as the associated environmental Committee, and is a permanent guest to the CCRC. He or she and social risks our clients' and our own assets are exposed develops the UBS in society strategy, leads in its execution, and to. UBS's comprehensive ESR standards are aligned with UBS submits annual objectives to the Group CEO. On behalf of the in society, govern client and supplier relationships, and are Group CEO, he or she proposes the UBS in society strategy and enforced firm-wide and applied to all activities. annual objectives to the CCRC for approval. He or she is – Environmental footprint: We set quantitative targets to supported by the UBS in society Executive Committee (EC)4 in reduce group-wide greenhouse gas emissions and the this effort. environmental impact of our operations. Environmental The UBS in society Steering Committee (SC)5 ensures firmprograms include investments in sustainable real estate and wide execution of the UBS in society strategy across business efficient information technology, energy and water efficiency, divisions, functions and regions. The Committee is chaired by paper and waste reduction and recycling, the use of the Head UBS in society and is composed of divisional, regional, environmentally friendly products (such as renewable energy and Group COO EC members as well as UBS in society EC or recycled paper), business travel and employee commuting. members. SC members are nominated by their respective GEB UBS aims to reduce negative environmental and social member and/or the Head UBS in society, and are responsible to impacts of goods and services it purchases and engages with define and implement the sustainability strategy of their BA / suppliers to promote responsible practices. Function (and to allocate resources accordingly) in line with the – Human resources: Our employees are crucial to our business UBS in society strategy. SC members ensure their objectives and success. We seek to attract, develop and retain talented plans are signed off by their GEB member / ECs. people at all levels with diverse background and skills to The Global Environmental & Social Risk Committee6 defines effectively advise our clients, deliver innovative solutions, an ESR framework and independent controls that align UBS's manage risk, navigate evolving regulatory requirements, and environmental and social risk appetite with that of UBS in drive change. We also focus on increasing awareness of UBS society. It is chaired by the Group Chief Risk Officer, who is in society amongst our employees by integrating sustainability responsible for the development and implementation of topics in our employee lifecycle activities. principles and appropriate independent control frameworks for environmental and social risks within UBS. 2 Responsibilities and authority of the CCRC are defined in Annex C of the Organization Regulations of UBS Group AG 3 As set out in the Business Regulations Corporate Center 4 As set out in the UBS in society Executive Committee Terms of Reference 5 As set out in the UBS in society Steering Committee Terms of Reference 6 As set out in the Global Environmental and Social Risk Committee Terms of Reference 118 The Business Divisions are responsible for developing, The Paris Agreement providing resources to, and executing the UBS in society annual The Paris Agreement is an agreement within the United Nations objectives in their respective division as they relate to client Framework Convention on Climate Change (UNFCCC) signed in relationships, product development, investment management, 2016. As of March 2019, 195 countries had signed committing distribution and risk management, predominantly in the areas of to keep the long-term global average temperature increase to sustainable finance and client philanthropy. well below 2 °C above pre-industrial levels; and to pursue efforts The Regions are responsible for providing resources to, and to limit the increase to 1.5 °C above pre-industrial levels, executing Community Affairs objectives in their region through recognizing that this would substantially reduce the risks and their respective regional Community Affairs teams. The impacts of climate change. It also aims to increase the ability of Community Affairs objectives are aligned with the global parties to adapt to the adverse impacts of climate change, and framework of UBS in society. make finance flows consistent with a pathway towards low The Corporate Center functions are responsible for greenhouse gas emissions and climate-resilient development. developing, providing resources to, and executing UBS in society annual objectives as they relate to risk control, sustainability Climate strategy regulation, employee training and development, in-house UBS considers an orderly transition to a low-carbon economy as environmental and supply chain management, and vital. Orderly means that emissions are reduced in a measured communications. way to meet climate goals, starting now. We support this transition through our comprehensive climate strategy. We are Reporting and Controls determined to protect our clients, and our own assets from climate-related risks in the context of uncertain policy and Our commitment is implemented through a firm-wide technology developments, mobilize private and institutional management system steered by defined measurable objectives. capital to finance the transition and reduce our own direct Their achievement is reviewed on a semi-annual basis by the climate impact. Head of UBS in society, and on an annual basis by the Corporate Culture and Responsibility Committee. Environmental and social risk (ESR) Progress made in implementing UBS in society's strategy, Environmental and social risks are broadly defined as the risk commitment, and objectives is reported as part of UBS's annual that UBS supports clients, or sources from suppliers, who cause reporting. This reporting is reviewed and assured externally or contribute to severe environmental damage or human rights according to the requirements of the Global Reporting infringements. Environmental and social risks can also arise if Initiative's (GRI) sustainability reporting guideline. We also UBS's operational activities and its employees (or contractors regularly report on the implementation of our climate strategy working on behalf of UBS) fail to operate within relevant and follow the recommendations provided by the Financial environmental and human rights regulations. Environmental and Stability Board’s Task Force on Climate-related Financial social risks (including human rights and climate-related risks) Disclosures (TCFD) and externally verify our greenhouse gas may result in adverse financial and reputational impacts for UBS. reporting according to ISO 14064. UBS is certified according to ISO 14001 and ISO 50001 Sustainable investments (SI) international environmental and energy management standards. Sustainable investing is an approach that seeks to incorporate These certificates attest that UBS's environmental management environmental, social and governance (ESG) considerations into system is an appropriate tool for evaluating compliance with the investment decisions. SI strategies seek to 1) achieve a positive relevant environmental regulations, achieving self-defined environmental or social impact, and/or 2) align investments with environmental objectives, and maintaining continual an investor’s values regarding ESG topics, while aiming to improvement of environmental performance. improve the portfolio risk and return characteristics. The implementation of our commitment and principles, as laid out in this document, is a process of continual improvement. Sustainable finance Sustainable finance refers to any form of financial service that Standard Information integrates environmental, social and governance (ESG) criteria into the business or investment decisions for the lasting benefit The Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs) of both clients and society at large. In September 2015, with the support of 193 nations, the United Nations launched the 2030 Agenda for Sustainable Development to end poverty, combat climate change, and fight injustice. Seventeen Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs) went into effect in January 2016 to address global socioeconomic imbalances threatening the lives of people living in developing economies and the future of generations to come. 7 NGFS – A call for action, Climate change as a source of financial risk, First comprehensive report, 2019 119 Appendix 1 – Governance and policies Environmental and social risk policy framework Comprehensive, highest industry standards, deeply rooted As a global company, and the largest truly global wealth in our culture manager to high net worth and ultra high net worth clients, UBS is in a unique position to help address these challenges, Our comprehensive environmental and social risk framework is deeply both together with our clients and through our own efforts. rooted in our culture, and Our principles and standards clearly define how we want to – governs client and supplier relationships and applies firm-wide to all do things at UBS. They apply to all aspects of our business and activities the ways in which we engage with our stakeholders. Our Code – meets the highest industry standards as recognized by environmental, of Conduct and Ethics documents our corporate responsibility. social, governance ratings Our work in key societal areas such as protecting the – is integrated in management practices and control principles and environment and respecting human rights are part of this. Living overseen at the most senior level of our firm. up to our societal responsibilities contributes to the wider goal of sustainable development. As a global firm we take responsibility to lead the debate on important societal topics, This framework is aligned with our UBS in society organization contribute to the setting of standards and collaborate in and that covers all the activities and capabilities related to sustainable beyond our industry. finance (including sustainable investing), philanthropy, Managing environmental and social risks is a key component environmental, climate and human rights policies governing of our corporate responsibility. We apply an environmental and client and supplier relationships, our environmental footprint, social risk policy framework to all our activities. This helps us human resources as well as community investment. identify and manage potential adverse impacts to the environment and to human rights, as well as the associated risks Introduction affecting our clients and us. We have set standards in product We live in a world that is more interconnected, more interdedevelopment, investments, financing and for supply chain pendent and more interactive than ever before. Rapid technomanagement decisions. We have identified certain controversial logical advances in particular continue to have a profound effect activities we will not engage in, or will only engage in under on the economic, political, cultural, environmental and social stringent criteria. As part of this process, we engage with clients landscape. These advances have changed the way we think and and suppliers to better understand their processes and policies act. They have altered the way we do business. They have and to explore how any environmental and social risks may be transformed the products and services we consume, and mitigated. reshaped the perceptions of the world around us. While this has The foundation of UBS’s environmental and social risk policy brought with it significant benefits and opportunities, it has also framework is established in the Code of Conduct and Ethics of created far greater awareness of the challenges we all face. UBS and the UBS in society constitutional document. 120 Our focus Climate change Our industry is playing an active role in addressing global issues Climate change is one of the most significant challenges of our such as human rights and the protection of our environment. time. The world’s key environmental and social challenges – such Climate change impacts ecosystems, societies, and economies as population growth, energy security, loss of biodiversity and worldwide, and we support clients achieving their goals in access to drinking water and food – are all closely intertwined support of the transition to a low-carbon economy. Growing with climate change. This makes the transition to a low-carbon environmental and human rights concerns have resulted in a fasteconomy vital. We support this transition through our changing regulatory and competitive landscape which is affecting comprehensive climate strategy, focusing on four pillars: our firm, our suppliers and our clients. In response to these – Protecting our own assets: We have reduced carbon-related emerging risks and opportunities, we are shaping appropriate assets on our balance sheet to 0.8% or USD 1.9 billion as of solutions and commitments. 31 December 2019, down from 1.6% at the end of 2018 Over twenty-five years ago, UBS was one of the first financial and 2.8% at the end of 2017. In 2019 we also revised our institutions to sign the United Nations (UN) Environment Prostandards in the energy and utilities sector and further gramme’s “Statement by Financial Institutions on the Environembedded climate-related risk into our standard risk ment and Sustainable Development.” We were also among the management framework. first companies to endorse the UN Global Compact, we were an – Protecting our clients’ assets: We support our clients’ efforts original signatory of the CDP, and our Asset Management (AM) to assess, manage and protect them from climate-related business is an Investment Manager signatory to the Principles for risks by offering innovative products and services in Responsible Investment. investment, financing and research. We also actively engage In 2019, we became a founding signatory of the UN on climate topics with companies that we invest in. Principles for Responsible Banking. The Principles constitute a – Mobilizing private and institutional capital: We mobilize comprehensive framework for the integration of sustainability private and institutional capital towards investments across banks. They define accountabilities and require each bank facilitating climate change mitigation and adaptation and in to set, publish and work toward ambitious targets. supporting the transition to a low-carbon economy as In 2000, our firm was a founding member of the Wolfsberg corporate advisor, and/or with our lending capacity. Group of banks, which was originally set up to promote good – Reducing our direct climate impact: We have committed to practice in combatting money laundering. In 2011, the firm was using 100% renewable electricity by mid-2020. This will a driving force behind the establishment of the Thun Group of reduce our firm’s GHG footprint by 75% compared with Banks, which has in the meantime published two discussion 2004 levels. papers that seek to establish a framework to facilitate the identification of the key challenges and best practice examples We publicly support international, collaborative action against for the banking sector’s implementation of the UN Guiding climate change. Our Chairman is a signatory to the European Principles on Business and Human Rights (UNGPs). We are a Financial Services Round Table’s statement in support of a member of the Roundtable on Sustainable Palm Oil (RSPO). strong, ambitious response to climate change. Our Group CEO is In 2014, we endorsed the Banking Environment Initiative’s and a member of the Alliance of CEO Climate Leaders, an informal Consumer Goods Forum’s “Soft Commodities” Compact, which network of CEOs convened by the World Economic Forum and reconfirms our commitment to developing and implementing committed to climate action. Our Head Sustainable Equity Team responsible business standards. within AM is a member of the Task Force on Climate-related Progress made in implementing UBS in society is reported as Financial Disclosures (TCFD). part of UBS’s annual reporting. This reporting is reviewed and  Refer to the “Our governance and principles” section of this assured externally according to the requirements of the Global document for the full climate strategy Reporting Initiative’s (GRI) Sustainability Reporting Guideline. UBS is certified according to ISO 14001, the international environmental management standard.  Refer to the “Driving change in business” section of this document for an overview of external commitments and memberships 121 Appendix 1 – Governance and policies Forests and biodiversity The principles of the Global Compact, today the largest Deforestation and forest degradation can cause biodiversity to corporate responsibility initiative globally, stem from the decline. As approximately 80% of the world’s documented Universal Declaration of Human Rights, the International Labor species are found in tropical rainforests, deforestation will Organization’s Declaration on Fundamental Principles and Rights impact global biodiversity. Deforestation is, in fact, second only at Work, the Rio Declaration on Environment and Development to the energy sector as a source of global greenhouse gas and the UN Convention Against Corruption. The United Nations emissions and accounts for up to 20% of emissions, more than took a significant step in 2011 by endorsing the UNGPs. At this the entire global transport sector. point, UBS together with other banks formed the Thun Group of It is further estimated that more than 50% of tropical deforBanks to jointly consider these developments and conclusions estation is due to the production of soy, palm oil, timber and and to share experiences and ideas regarding the beef. In human terms, millions of people rely directly on forests implementation of the UNGPs. To this end, the Thun Group of (small-scale agriculture, hunting and gathering, and harvesting Banks has published two discussion papers that seek to establish forest products such as rubber). Yet, deforestation continues to a framework to facilitate the identification of the key challenges cause severe societal problems, sometimes leading to violent and best practice examples for the banking sector’s conflict. implementation of the UNGPs. Both discussion papers were also intended to inform other pertinent initiatives, in the specific case Recognizing these risks, we: of the second the OECD’s proactive agenda on Responsible – became member of the RSPO in 2012. Business Conduct, which released in 2019 its guidance on due – endorsed the Banking Environment Initiative’s and Consumer diligence for Responsible Business Conduct in General Corporate Goods Forum’s “Soft Commodities” Compact. In doing so, Lending and Securities Underwriting. UBS is a member of the we aim to support the transformation of soft commodity Advisory Group to the OECD’s project. supply chains by expecting producers to be committed to achieving full certification according to applicable Recognizing these risks, we: sustainability certification schemes, such as the RSPO. We – established a UBS Position on human rights in 2006. In 2013, acknowledge that land acquired without adequate we revised the firm’s Environmental and Social Risk consultation, compensation, and consideration of customary Framework to formalize accountability for human rights land rights (commonly referred to as land grabbing), can issues. significantly impact local communities: often smallholders – stipulated that we will not engage in commercial activities who primarily rely on subsistence farming to sustain their that make use of child labor and forced labor, or that infringe livelihood. the rights of indigenous peoples (see section Controversial – have identified and will not engage in certain activities that Activities – Where UBS will not do business). contribute to deforestation and its related impacts (sections – will continue our work internally, and externally with the Controversial Activities – Where UBS will not do business and Thun Group of Banks and the OECD, to understand how best Areas of Concern – Where UBS will only do business under to implement the UNGPs across our operations. stringent criteria). Our standards Human rights UBS has set standards in product development, investments, UBS is committed to respecting and promoting human rights in financing and supply chain management decisions, which all our business activities. We believe this is a responsible include the stipulation of controversial activities and other areas approach underlining our desire to reduce as far as possible of concern UBS will not engage in, or will only engage in under potentially negative impacts on society. Our commitment in this stringent criteria. important area is long standing. In July 2000, UBS was one of 43 companies that pledged to adhere to the Global Compact. 122 Controversial Activities – Where UBS will not do business Soft commodities UBS will not knowingly provide financial or advisory services to – Palm oil: Companies must be a member of the RSPO and not clients whose primary business activity, or where the proposed subject to any unresolved public criticism from the RSPO. transaction, is associated with severe environmental or social Companies must further have some level of mill or plantation damage to or through use of: certification and be publicly committed to achieving full – World heritage sites as classified by UNESCO; certification (evidence must be available). Company must also – Wetlands on the Ramsar list; be committed to “No Deforestation, No Peat and No – Endangered species of wild flora and fauna listed in AppenExploitation” (NDPE). dix 1 of the Convention on International Trade in Endan– Soy: Companies producing soy in markets at high risk of gered Species; tropical deforestation must be a member of the Roundtable – High conservation value forests as defined by the six cateon Responsible Soy (RTRS) and not subject to any unresolved gories of the Forestry Stewardship Council (FSC); public criticism from the RTRS. Companies must further be – Illegal fire: uncontrolled and/or illegal use of fire for land publicly committed to achieving full certification (evidence clearance; must be available). – Illegal logging including purchase of illegal harvested timber – Timber: Companies producing timber in markets at high risk (logs or roundwood); of tropical deforestation must seek to achieve full certification – Child labor according to ILO-conventions 138 (minimum age) of their production according to the Forest Stewardship and 182 (worst forms); Council (FSC) or a national scheme endorsed against the – Forced labor according to ILO-convention 29; and 2010 Programme for the Endorsement of Forest Certification – Indigenous peoples’ rights in accordance with IFC Perfor(PEFC) meta standard for timber products. Company must mance Standard 7. also have fire prevention, monitoring and suppression measures in place. The same standards apply when UBS purchases goods or – Fish and seafood: Companies producing, processing or services from suppliers. trading fish and seafood must provide credible evidence of no In addition, UBS does not directly or indirectly finance the illegal, unreported and unregulated fishing in their own development, production or purchase of controversial weapons production and supply chain. of such companies determined to fall within the “Swiss Federal Act on War Materials.” Power Generation On the topic of cluster munitions and anti-personnel mines: – Coal-fired power plants (CFPP): We do not provide projectUBS does not provide credit facilities to, nor conduct capital level finance for new coal-fired power plants globally and market transactions for, companies that are involved in the only support financing transactions of existing coal-fired development, production or purchase of cluster munitions and operators (>30% coal reliance) who have a transition strategy anti-personnel mines. UBS does not include securities of in place that aligns with a pathway under the Paris affected companies in its actively managed retail and instituAgreement, or the transaction is related to renewable energy. tional funds and in discretionary mandates. UBS draws upon – Large dams: Transactions directly related to large dams external expertise to decide whether a company is subject to the include an assessment against the recommendations made by restrictions imposed by Swiss law. the World Commission on Dams (WCD) and the International Hydropower Association Sustainability Assessment Protocol. Areas of Concern – Where UBS will only do business under – Nuclear power: Transactions directly related to the constringent criteria struction of new, or the upgrading of existing nuclear power Specific guidelines and assessment criteria apply to transactions plants include an assessment on whether the country of with corporate clients engaged in the areas of concern listed domicile of the client / operation has ratified the Treaty on below. The guidelines and assessment criteria apply to loans, the Non-Proliferation of Nuclear Weapons. trade finance, direct investments in real estate and infrastructure, securities and loan underwriting transactions, and investment banking advisory assignments. Transactions in the areas listed below trigger an enhanced due diligence and approval process. In addition to the assessment of regulatory compliance, adherence to UBS’s controversial activities standards, past and present environmental and human rights performance, as well as concerns of stakeholder groups, these transactions require an assessment of the following criteria: 123 Appendix 1 – Governance and policies Extractives Integration in risk, compliance and operations processes – Arctic oil and oil sands: We do not provide financing where Procedures and tools for the identification, assessment and the stated use of proceeds is for new offshore oil projects in monitoring of environmental and social risks are applied and the Arctic or greenfield1 oil sands projects, and only provide integrated into standard risk, compliance and operations financing to companies, which have significant reserves or processes. production in arctic oil and/or oil sands (>30% of reserves or – Client onboarding: Potential clients are assessed for production), where the stated use of proceeds is related to environmental and social risks associated with their business renewable energy or conventional oil & gas assets. activities as part of UBS’s Know Your Client compliance – Coal mining: We do not provide financing where the stated processes. use of proceeds is for greenfield1 thermal coal mines and do – Transaction due diligence: Environmental and social risks are not provide financing to coal mining companies engaged in identified and assessed as part of standard transaction due mountain top removal operations. We continue to severely diligence and decision-making processes in all business restrict lending and capital raising to the coal mining sector. divisions and relevant product lines. – Liquefied Natural Gas (LNG): Transactions directly related to – Product development and investment decision processes: New LNG infrastructure assets are subject to enhanced ESR due financial products and services are reviewed before their diligence considering relevant factors such as management of launch in order to assess their compatibility and consistency methane leaks, and the company's past and present with UBS’s environmental and human rights standards. environmental and social performance. Environmental and social risks are also considered in – Ultra-deepwater drilling: Transactions directly related to ultrainvestment decision processes and when exercising ownership deepwater drilling assets are subject to enhanced ESR due rights like proxy voting and engagement with the diligence considering relevant factors such as environmental management of investee entities. impact analysis, spill prevention and response plans, and the – Own operations: Our operational activities and employees, or company's past and present environmental and social contractors working on UBS premises, are assessed for performance compliance with relevant environmental, health and safety, – Hydraulic fracturing: Transactions with companies that and labor rights regulations. practice hydraulic fracturing in environmentally and socially – Supply chain management: Environmental and social risks are sensitive areas are assessed against their commitment to and assessed when selecting and dealing with suppliers. UBS also certification of voluntary standards, such as the American evaluates goods and services that pose potential Petroleum Institute’s documents and standards for hydraulic environmental, labor and human rights risks during lifecycle fracturing. (production, usage, and disposal) as part of its purchasing – Precious metals: Transactions directly related to precious processes. metals assets that have a controversial environmental and – Portfolio review: At portfolio level, we regularly review social risk track record are assessed against the client’s sensitive sectors and activities prone to bearing environmental commitment to and certification of voluntary standards, such and social risks. We assess client exposure and revenue in such as the International Council on Mining & Metals’ (ICMM) sectors and attempt to benchmark the portfolio quality against International Cyanide Management Code (ICMC). regional and/or sector averages. Such portfolio reviews give us – Diamonds: Transactions with companies that mine and trade an accurate aggregated exposure profile and an enhanced rough diamonds are assessed on the client’s commitment to insight into our transaction and client onboarding processes. and certification of voluntary standards, such as the ICMC, Based on the outcome of these reviews, we can explore ways and rough diamonds must be certified under the Kimberley to improve the future portfolio profile along a range of risk Process. parameters. Our processes and governance Clients, transactions or suppliers potentially in breach of UBS applies an environmental and social risk framework to all UBS’s position, or otherwise subject to significant environmental transactions, products, services and activities such as lending, and human rights controversies, are identified as part of UBS’s capital raising, advisory services or investments that involve a standard risk and compliance processes. Advanced data analytics party associated with environmentally or socially sensitive on companies associated with such risks is integrated into the activities. The framework seeks to identify and manage web-based compliance tool used by our staff before they enter potential adverse impacts to the environment and to human into a client or supplier relationship, or a transaction. The rights, as well as the financial and reputation risks of being systematic nature of this tool significantly enhances our ability to associated with them. identify potential risk. In 2019, 1,889 referrals were assessed by our environmental and social risk unit, of which 82 were rejected or not pursued, 299 were approved with qualifications and 32 were pending. 1 Greenfield means a new mine / well or an expansion of an existing mine / well which results in a material increase in existing production capacity. 124 Environmental and social risk assessments Environmental and social risk assessments For the year ended % change from 31.12.19 31.12.18 31.12.17 31.12.18 Cases referred for assessment1 1,889 2,114 2,170 (11) by region Americas 248 288 305 (14) Asia Pacific 479 718 604 (33) Europe, Middle East and Africa (excluding Switzerland) 282 293 253 (4) Switzerland 880 815 1,008 8 by business division Global Wealth Management2 199 426 507 (53) Personal & Corporate Banking 801 684 795 17 Asset Management 4 7 7 (43) Investment Bank 849 980 852 (13) Corporate Center3 36 17 9 112 by sector Agribusiness4 197 277 291 (29) Chemicals 61 91 87 (33) Financial5 722 589 617 23 Infrastructure 82 109 53 (25) Metals and mining 200 249 233 (20) Oil and gas 150 187 207 (20) Technology6 105 164 140 (36) Transport 40 51 53 (22) Utilities 108 176 191 (39) Other7 224 221 298 1 by outcome8 approved9 1,476 1,648 1,679 (10) approved with qualifications10 299 358 397 (16) rejected or not further pursued11 82 108 94 (24) pending12 32 0 0 1 Transactions and client onboarding requests referred to the environmental and social risk (ESR) function. 2 Wealth Management and Wealth Management Americas reported as Global Wealth Management from 2018. Therefore, 2017 numbers were restated. 3 Relates to procurement / sourcing of products and services. 4 Includes, e.g., companies producing or processing fish and seafood, forestry products, biofuels, food and beverage. 5 Includes, e.g., banks, commodity traders, investments and equity firms. 6 Includes technology and telecom companies. 7 Includes, e.g., aerospace and defense, general industrials, retail and wholesale (from 2017). 8 By outcome 2019 data is from 22.1.2020 9 Client / transaction / supplier subject to an ESR assessment and considered in compliance with UBS’s ESR framework. 10 Client / transaction / supplier subject to an ESR assessment and approved with qualifications. Qualifications may include ring-fencing of certain assets, conditions towards client / supplier or internal recommendations. 11 Client / transaction / supplier subject to an ESR assessment and rejected or not further pursued. 12 Decision pending. Pending cases 2018 have been closed and reallocated to the other outcome categories. 125 Appendix 1 – Governance and policies Escalation and approval processes environmental and social risk unit for enhanced due diligence. Where business or control functions responsible for identifying If identified risks are believed to pose potentially significant and assessing environmental and social risks as part of due environmental or social risks, they are rejected by the risk unit or diligence processes determine the existence of potential material are escalated according to the firm’s reputation risk escalation risks, they refer the client, supplier or transaction to a specialized process. Governance and oversight It is chaired by the Group Chief Risk Officer, who is responsible In view of the many environmental and social challenges for the development and implementation of principles and globally, these topics will continue to increase in relevance for appropriate independent control frameworks for environmental banks. These developments therefore require regular and critical and social risks within UBS. assessment of our policies and practices, based on an accurate All corporate responsibility and sustainability developments at monitoring and analysis of societal topics of potential relevance UBS are monitored and reviewed by the UBS Corporate Culture to UBS. and Responsibility Committee, a Board of Directors' committee of This process is the responsibility of a committee at Group UBS Group AG. The Committee supports the Board in its duties Executive Board-level, the Global Environmental and Social Risk to safeguard and advance UBS’s reputation for responsible Committee, which sets the overall risk appetite for the firm and corporate conduct. In this capacity it reviews and monitors the resolves and policy matters relating to environmental and social implementation of UBS’s ESR framework. risks and their associated reputation risks. 126 Health and safety statement UBS is committed to ensuring that all staff have a working – We actively promote an open and respectful work environment that protects their health, safety and wellbeing. environment. Our Code of Conduct and Ethics includes a commitment to – We strive to ensure that our working environment is as safe follow health and safety rules and implement best practices to as possible, including addressing issues such as protection of ensure as safe a workplace as possible. non-smokers, radiation exposure risk assessments, etc. We have health and safety guidelines that stress the – We have measures in place to mitigate potential emergencies importance of having a physical infrastructure and working in the workplace and while travelling on business. environment that support our staff in performing up to their – Travel and security experts, crisis management committees, potential. As work patterns and employee expectations have first aid providers, health specialists, social counselors and changed, UBS has taken a proactive approach to ensure that our other specialists are available to employees. work spaces continue to meet the needs of our businesses, our – UBS has a range of services and programs (for example, our staff, our clients and our business partners, while also meeting Employee Assistance Programs, Social Counseling and online our legal obligations. support materials) to help employees navigate through UBS complies with all health and safety standards and various personal issues, including health, family care, restrictions imposed by applicable laws in all the countries in addiction and dependency problems. which we operate. We also apply internal policies and guidelines – Workplace issues can also impact employee wellbeing. We – both globally and regionally – which may go beyond the legal have appropriate routes for employees to raise any concerns, health and safety requirements. including documented grievance, complaint and An environment without incidents or accidents is in whistleblowing processes. everyone’s interests. In addition to applying our own health and safety measures, we ask third parties conducting business with Measures Taken to Ensure Health and Safety us or operating on our premises to consider health and safety – UBS provides information to employees on topical issues and matters too, and all vendors and contractors are required to initiatives. comply with our health and safety guidelines when dealing with – Our line managers help to maintain a safe and healthy work us. environment and UBS gives them the information and All of our staff are expected to conduct themselves in a way support that is relevant to their role. that helps to ensure their own health and safety and that of – We regularly review our health and safety activities to ensure their colleagues. issues are effectively managed and improvements are made where necessary. Our reviews also include employee Health and Safety Principles consultation (where appropriate). – We aim to maintain a working environment that supports the general health and well-being of all staff. Health and Safety Governance – We build and maintain innovative work places that allow Responsibility for the governance and review of health and employees to work efficiently and collaboratively. safety sits with the Group Chief Operating Officer and the – Our agile working arrangements (and our leave and benefit Group Head Human Resources. arrangements) are designed to support employees’ work and Day-to-day responsibility for health and safety matters is personal lives. shared between Group Corporate Services and HR Reward. The Corporate Culture and Responsibility Committee has oversight of health and safety matters. 127 Appendix 2 – Additional information for GRI UBS in society management indicators UBS in society management indicators For the year ended % change from 31.12.19 31.12.18 31.12.17 31.12.18 Personnel in specialized units / functions (full time equivalents)1 145 135 108 7 Awareness raising2,4 Training participation (headcounts) 85,589 43,722 68,955 114 Specialized training3,4 Training participation (headcounts) 13,979 11,821 9,460 18 External audits5 Audit participation (headcounts) 109 135 203 (19) Auditing time (calendar days on site) 15 25 35 (40) Internal audits6 Audit participation (headcounts) 287 437 537 (34) Auditing time (person days) 772 572 875 35 1 Employees that are part of the UBS in society organization and/or have specialized knowledge relevant for the UBS in society management system. 2 Increase due to high participation rate regarding environmental and social risk awareness training and mandatory Code of Conduct and Culture training in Q4 3 Specialized training is provided to employees in front-office and support functions who are dealing directly with UBS in society aspects in everyday business processes. 4 Possible double counts, i.e., one employee may complete more than one training in a year 5 ISO 14001, ISO 50001, ISO 14064 and Global Reporting Initiative (GRI). 6 Audits / reviews conducted by specialized internal units. The implementation of environmental and social risk policies is also audited by Group Internal Audit. 128 Information for management approaches for material topics Information relevant to all material topics Information relevant to specific material topics Governance Indirect economic impacts See “Board of Directors and sustainability” in the “Our This topic is partly covered by UBS’s Community Affairs activities. governance and principles” section in this document. Resources However, there is a much larger component that includes the for material topics are allocated in accordance with corporate financing of companies by the Investment Bank worldwide as budgeting processes well as the specific (economic) role UBS holds as the largest bank in Switzerland. In Switzerland, UBS’s indirect economic impact is Grievance mechanisms determined for instance through its business relations to more We have a global whistleblowing policy and procedures (plus an than 120,000 companies (including over 90% of the largest internal website with guidance and links to an online form, 250). More than 80% of the 250 banks in Switzerland, as well hotlines and other resources), as referenced in our Code of as a majority of medium and large pension funds, are UBS Conduct and Ethics, and we ask all employees to promptly speak clients and benefit from a wide range of services. 2.5 million up about any conduct that might breach policies, laws or private clients and almost half of all Swiss companies are served regulations. We also provide mandatory training for all by UBS. Further indirect economic impact is realized through its employees to ensure everyone understands our commitment, employees throughout the country (more than 20,000). procedures and responsibilities. Additionally, we also have various feedback channels for Digital innovation external stakeholders. Our Corporate Responsibility team can be Digitalization continues to transform the banking industry. Our contacted for all sustainability inquiries and issues via the UBS in investments in technology play a critical role in maintaining our society website. Client feedback (including that which is position as the largest global wealth manager. They are collected through our Quality Feedback management system or designed to enhance and differentiate the client experience and through the Report Misconduct of UBS Staff online form) product excellence our firm offers, while accelerating enables the firm to act and continuously improve products and effectiveness and efficiency. Digital innovation is a focus across client service standards in order to provide the best client the firm, both within the business divisions (e.g., product experience. development) and Corporate Center (notably within the Chief Operating Officer area). Evaluation of management approaches In 2019, we spent around USD 3.5 billion on technology. We We assess the effectiveness of the approaches as listed in the gear our investments toward technologies to enable business management approach section (GRI 103-2) of each material GRI growth through innovation and superior client experience, and topic in the GRI content index through a number of measures, to continue to increase efficiency across the organization. most visibly through: Advanced technologies are used in our business divisions and – Performance against targets Corporate Center to enhance the client experience by increasing – Internal and external audits (e.g., ISO 14001 certification) front-to-back digitalization, improving product excellence and – External ratings (e.g., environmental, social and governance distribution, driving efficiency gains and maintaining platform (ESG) ratings), employer awards / honors security. – Stakeholder feedback (e.g., employee and client surveys) – Reputation measurement (through UBS-internal approaches) Employee topics – Measurement systems (e.g., UBS-internal reporting, This section covers the management approach for the following management reviews, impact measurements) topics: employment, training and education, diversity and equal – Assessment and testing of controls opportunity, non-discrimination, and working culture and Results from such evaluations may lead to potential environment. This information is provided in addition to the adjustments to our approaches. In the reporting period, “Employees” section, where we describe these topics and how significant adjustments were made to the Group strategy and we manage them. The purpose of our management approach is our climate strategy (see references in 103-3 for GRI topic to engage and enable our employees to meet clients’ needs Economic Performance in the GRI Content Index). while positively impacting our employees. 129 Appendix 2 – Additional information for GRI Group policies are global and apply to all employees. The BoD’s CCRC regularly and critically reviews developments Additionally, there are local policies to address specific local in key human resources areas, notably employee health and requirements, where applicable. Refer to the “Key policies and wellbeing as well as corporate culture. The CCRC’s responsibility guidelines” section for further information. to oversee our firm’s corporate culture and corporate Our objectives are provided in the “Employees“ and the “UBS responsibility programs and initiatives has been included in the sustainability objectives and achievements 2019 and Organization Regulations of UBS Group AG. sustainability objectives 2020“ sections of this document. With regard to evaluating our management approach, and in The firm’s Board of Directors (BoD), Group Executive Board, addition to the measures outlined above, we undertake focused Group COO and Head Group Human Resources specifically have initiatives and take action in areas where we could do better. responsibility for defining and executing an human resources Each initiative has associated analysis, communication and strategy aligned to UBS’s objectives and positioning the firm as accountability elements to ensure that we can continue to build an employer of choice. This includes providing advisory, human on strengths but especially so we can improve on areas of resources services to employees as well as strategic advice to relative weakness or concern. managers and executives to support them in attracting, engaging, developing and retaining talent. 130 Impact of material GRI topics This table lists those GRI topics that we have identified as that may occur in relation to the respective material topic. For material and additional topics identified as material in the UBS every topic, the table shows our assessment of whether UBS’s GRI-based materiality assessment (see above). The table shows involvement with the impacts of such topic upon the economy, the level of involvement we believe our firm has with the society or environment is direct, indirect or limited. economic, social or environmental impacts (positive or negative) 131 Appendix 2 – Additional information for GRI Calculating and reporting on climate change-related financing and advisory activities The following text explains how the numbers for climate or a high MSCI ranking of clients to identify these clients and change-related financing and advisory activities featured in the deals. Clients’ activities span all industry sectors, including “Our climate strategy“ section of this Sustainability Report have renewable energy generation and clean tech but also energy been calculated. efficiency, waste management, transport, infrastructure renewal In 2019, the Investment Bank provided equity or debt capital and development or water management. They range from smallmarket services for a total deal value of USD 52.7 billion, or cap and pure-play startups to large international and diversified acted as financial advisor for a total deal value of USD 34.5 companies. billion, to clients that contribute to climate change mitigation We aggregate total USD deal value of all global capital and adaptation. market deals in which UBS acted as lead manager or bookrunner The methodology behind these numbers consists first in for these companies and aggregate total USD value of deals identifying clients who, through the products and services they where UBS acted as financial advisor. The data represents all our offer, work to mitigate the effects of global climate change and transactions with these clients and not only transactions that can help to adapt to changing climate impacts. We use internal be classified as directly climate-related. expertise, deal specific information such as green bond issuance . 132 Direct economic value generated and distributed by UBS Group AG consolidated in 2019 USD million 31.12.19 Operating income 28,889 Operating expenses 23,312 of which: Personnel expenses 16,084 of which: Community investments 45 2018 dividends paid on UBS shares 2,544 Tax expenses, excluding deferred taxes 791 Economic value retained 2,242 133 Appendix 2 – Additional information for GRI Financial literacy The topic is mainly relevant in Switzerland, the only country Services not limited to Swiss clients include: where we offer comprehensive financial products and services to – UBS Key Invest provides know-how about structured products retail and small / medium enterprise (SME) clients. Many of our – UBS Dictionary of Banking products and services that contribute to the enhancement of – Chief Investment Office Wealth Management Research financial literacy are therefore limited to our Swiss clients. – UBS Financial Education Program (for US clients only) Examples include: – Financial check-up for young people and students Additionally, UBS runs various community programs globally that – Saving tips for young people and students enhance financial literacy. Many of our skills-based volunteering – Budget calculator for young people and students activities across the key themes of education and – Mortgage calculator entrepreneurship also contribute to the enhancement of – Download center for SMEs offering a collection of our broad financial literacy. Examples include: range of publications, documents and resources, such as – UBS Social Investment Toolkit succession planning checklists – UBS Elevating Entrepreneurs 134 UBS sustainability objectives and achievements 2019 and sustainability objectives 2020 Objectives and achievements 2019 UBS in society For our reporting against the UBS in society mid-term targets, please refer to page 48 of this Sustainability Report. Material GRI topics Objectives 2019 Achievements 2019 Status FS Product Portfolio; Sustainable investments / finance: On Track / Achieved FS Active Ownership  Make progress towards our mid-term goal to direct USD 5 billion of client assets into new Sustainable  USD 2 billion of client assets directed into SDG-related impact investments in 2019, reaching Development Goal (SDG)-related impact investments to help mainstream the asset class and its USD 3.9 billion (i.e., 78% of our 2021 goal) contribution to the SDGs (by 2021)  Global Wealth Management (GWM) to launch at least two private markets impact investing products  Launch by GWM of two Sustainable Investing Private Equity Impact Funds in 2019: Bridge Workforce and Affordable Housing and RXR Opportunity Zone Fund.  Asset Management (AM) and GWM to further support the sustainable and impact investing cause (e.g.,  Publication of UBS whitepaper at the World Economic Forum 2019 annual meeting; offering internal / external communication, events, research and whitepapers) policymakers, investors and the financial sector recommendations for meeting the SDGs. Publication by AM of research papers, including one on climate, climate engagement, stewardship, climate change and central banks, and global institutional survey on ESG.  Investment Bank (IB) to maintain leadership position in Environmental / Social / Governance (ESG)  168 research activities (reports / calls / events / videos), supporting our aim to deliver Integration / Sustainable Investing (SI) research through the collaborative delivery of differentiated differentiated ESG and Sustainable Investing (SI) content to institutional investors. Launch by IB content and client events of ESG icon to highlight, where relevant, substantive ESG content in “mainstream“ research. Publication of 32 such reports. Inaugural UBS ESG and Sustainability Symposium, with over 300 clients, corporate attendees, UBS staff, industry leaders and global experts, including over 40 speakers. Symposium done with Global Research Alliance for Sustainable Finance and Investment (GRASFI) which receives sponsorship from UBS. Key client conferences and events integrated ESG content, including UBS Greater China Conference, UBS's flagship client conference held annually in Shanghai – and UBS OneASEAN Conference in Bangkok.  Further strengthen the collaboration to establish AM as SI leader in the industry  See Achievements reported above on supporting the sustainable and impact investing, as well as Achievements reported below regarding engagement. AM sponsor of PRI (Principles for Responsible Investment), Responsible Investor Europe, Americas, and Japan events .  AM to launch SI products and solutions both in the active and passive space  Launch by AM of 13 funds. AM reached USD 38.6 billion of Assets under Management (AuM) for SI focused and Impact products (i.e.. progress of USD 21 billion for the year)  AM to strengthen the company engagement approach focusing on climate action and impact categories  AM a lead manager for 7 collaborative engagements within Climate Action 100+ and supported in order to improve the sustainability performance of our investments 82% of climate related resolutions proposed by shareholders. AM ranked as number 1 asset manager for voting on climate resolutions according to ShareAction. AM engaged with 50 companies in the oil & gas and utilities sectors on climate risk specifically to share our findings, receive feedback, receive additional data to enhance our models over-time and also to encourage companies to mitigate climate change risks. 135 Appendix 3 – Sustainability objectives and achievements Material GRI topics Objectives 2019 Achievements 2019 Status GRI 203: Indirect Pioneer two to three new ways to finance international aid in partnership with bilateral or multilateral UBS Optimus Foundation (Optimus) on track with development of innovative ways to finance On track Economic Impacts agencies, foundations and/or the private sector. international aid, including designing a social impact bond (SIB) with the Hong Kong Government, Raise at least CHF 30 million through these new partnerships or philanthropic products. and a client-funded East Africa Education facility (an outcomes based investment fund). Optimus raised more than CHF 35 million from strategic partnerships and social finance . FS Product Portfolio; Launch of a consolidated global UHNW community to meet the different needs / passions of UHNW clients Launch of new platform as UBS Global Connections for existing members. Platform will be open for On track FS Active Ownership and their successors. new members in Q1 2020. Note: Target changed as of H1 2019 due to a change of IT platform and a review of the existing UHNW communities concept. Original target: Continue to build the Global Philanthropists Community (GPC) to grow beyond 500 members and create value by facilitating 50 connections amongst community members. GRI 203: Indirect Make progress towards our mid-term goal to achieve a volunteering rate of 40% of employees by the end of 38% of employee volunteering. 48% of all volunteer hours skills-based On track Economic Impacts 2020, with 40% of volunteers’ time directed at skills-based programs. FS Product Portfolio; Achieve 2,000 client touch points with Global Visionaries program. Over 7,000 client touch points through the Global Visionaries program. Achieved GRI 203: Indirect Economic Impacts GRI 201: Economic Climate strategy: Performance;  Further aligning UBS’s risk appetite with reduction path under Paris Agreement and refine climate risk  Further integrated climate-related risk into UBS's risk management framework: climate risk is Achieved GRI 302: Energy; methodologies now embedded into the firm's risk taxonomy and operational risk appetite statement. In GRI 305: Emissions; addition, UBS further limited its risk appetite for carbon-related assets: the firm reduced FS Product Portfolio exposure to carbon-related assets (0.8%) and strengthened UBS standards in the energy and utilities sectors. We further developed forward-looking scenario-based climate risk methodologies: Participation in the Paris Agreement Capital Transition Assessment (PACTA) pilot for corporate lending portfolios; as well as in phase II of UN Environment Programme Finance Initiative (UNEP FI) pertaining to Task Force on Climate-related Disclosures (TCFD). Execute on 2020 greenhouse gas / energy reduction target and RE100 implementation plan: On track to achieve 2020 targets for GHG / energy reduction and RE100 implementation plan:1  Reduce Greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions by 75% below 2004 level  GHG reduction: –71% compared to 2004 On Track  Reduce energy by 5% below 2016 level  Energy reduction: –15% compared to 2016  Increase share of renewable electricity to 100% by June 30, 2020  Share of renewable energy: 72% up from 59% in 2018 – – Execute on 2020 operational environmental targets for water, paper and waste: On track to achieve 2020 operational environmental targets for water, paper and waste:1  Reduce water consumption by 5% below 2016 level  Water reduction: –17% compared to 2016 On Track  Reduce paper consumption per FTE by 5% below 2016 level  Paper consumption per FTE: – 31% compared to 2016  Increase share of sustainable (FSC / recycled) to 90%  Share of sustainable paper: 83% up from 80% in 2018  Reduce waste per FTE by 5% below 2016 level  Waste per FTE: –24% compared to 2016  Increase waste recycling ratio to 60%  Waste recycling ratio: 51.2% up from 50.8% in 2018 136 Material GRI topics Objectives 2019 Achievements 2019 Status FS Audit Strengthen UBS’s long-term value creation (LTVC) case for investors by supporting the integration of LTVC LTVC case advanced by changes made to Book 1 of the Annual Report. LTVC fold-out integrated at Achieved report into Annual Report. the very beginning of Annual Report and Book 1 re-structured and content adapted to reflect integrated approach. All Increase ESG engagement with UBS investors by participating in at least two ESG investor events / ESG is increasingly integrated into mainstream investor engagements (with one dedicated ESG Partly Achieved roadshows. investor roadshow conducted). FS Audit Execute firm-wide ISO 14001 surveillance audit and ensure continued certification by addressing audit ISO 14001 2019 surveillance audit passed with no major non-conformities. All minor nonAchieved findings. conformities from last audit closed. FS Product Portfolio; Simplify Environmental & Social Risk (ESR) checks and processes in onboarding and periodic Know Your Simplified ESR operational controls in onboarding and periodic Know your Client (KYC) reviews to Achieved FS Active Ownership Client (KYC) reviews and train approx. 50% of relevant target groups. increase their efficiency and effectiveness; 100% of target group (front staff in GWM and Personal & Corporate Banking [P&C], and risk officers) trained on revised controls as part of mandatory Antimoney Laundering (AML) training. Additional specialist trainings rolled out in various locations (e.g. Singapore, Switzerland). GRI 308: Supplier Further improve approach to assess vendors and enhance UBS Responsible Supply Chain Standard (RSCM). RSCM guideline and Factbase, an internal database, updated. Achieved Environmental Assessment; GRI 414: Supplier Social Assessment 1 Reporting period 2019 (1 July 2018 – 30 June 2019) 137 Appendix 3 – Sustainability objectives and achievements Other areas Material GRI topics Objectives 2019 Achievements 2019 Status GRI 201: Economic  Reported return on CET1 capital of ~15% for 2019, with an ambition to improve to ~17% by 2021  Return on common equity tier 1 capital of 12.4% in 2019 New targets / Performance;  Adjusted cost / income ratio of ~ 77% for 2019, with an ambition to improve to ~ 72% by 2021  Adjusted cost / income ratio of 80.8% in 2019 guidance for 2020Operational 2022 efficiency and effectiveness GRI 205: AntiReview UBS’s financial crime framework to ensure that emerging risks are reflected. Review of UBS's Financial Crime framework conducted, to ensure that emerging risks are reflected. Achieved Corruption GRI 401: Build engagement and strengthen our corporate culture We are widely recognized as an employer of choice and received various top-employer honors in On track Employment;  Reinforce culture programs across the organization 2019. Of particular note are our achievements in Global Universum ranking of Top 50 World's Most Working culture and  Promote a feedback culture and measure, foster and recognize the UBS behaviors of integrity, Attractive Employers, our peer-leading position in human resources elements of Dow Jones environment collaboration and challenge Sustainability Index, employee survey scores above financial services norm in employee engagement  Remain an employer of choice for employees at all career stages  Attract the right external talent and maintain a highly motivated workforce (78%) and work environment (81%) and our recognition by Bloomberg Gender Equality Index.  Continue to foster internal mobility and provide long-term career prospects Internal mobility remained a key priority in 2019, as it builds cross-firm connections, increases engagement and enables employees to leverage existing skills as well as developing new ones. Along with line manager effectiveness, having a wide range of learning and career development opportunities, as well as tools to facilitate professional growth, are key drivers of employee engagement. In this respect, our new Career Navigator tool, which debuted in June 2019, has been instrumental. This online platform enables employees to explore career paths and search for open roles that match their interests while allowing our recruiters to find internal talent more easily. The tool also identifies skill gaps with regards to new roles and interests and directly links to learning opportunities to help fill these gaps. In 2019, 1,125 employees changed business divisions; 499 changed regions. GRI 404 Training Effectively develop, manage and retain our talent In 2019, our in-house UBS University further updated its curriculum to emphasize future-skills On track and Education  Curate and modernize the UBS University learning offering to continue to enhance learner experience development and personal growth for all employees. These updates included a new digital skills  Prepare current and future leaders for enhanced responsibilities in an ever-evolving banking and curriculum that builds knowledge about topics such as blockchain, cloud computing, robotics and working environment artificial intelligence. A new mobile learning app launched in mid-2019 enabled employees to learn whenever and wherever they want. We also completely revamped our leadership development offering in 2019 to ensure that our leaders have the skills they need to grow their businesses and their people, and to lead effectively in an age of digital transformation. In 2019, our permanent employees completed more than 1,100,000 learning activities, including mandatory training on compliance, business and other topics. This averaged to 16.2 sessions, or more than 2 training days, per employee. 138 Material GRI topics Objectives 2019 Achievements 2019 Status GRI 405: Diversity Strengthen our diverse and inclusive workplace Our diverse workforce and inclusive culture are critical to our long-term success. Already diverse in On track and Equal  Aspiration to increase the ratio of women in management roles to one-third many ways, we are committed to further increasing our diversity and to ensuring equal opportunities Opportunity;  Expansion of understanding and skill base around Inclusive Leadership for all employees. We are especially focused on hiring, retaining and promoting more women across GRI 406: Nonthe firm with a focus on senior ranks. We continue to make progress toward our stated aspiration to Discrimination increase the representation of women in management roles to one-third. In 2019, 25.2% of all employees in roles at Director level and above were women, up from 24.7% in 2018 Our award-winning UBS Career Comeback program, already established in the UK, US, Switzerland and India, was extended to include all other UBS locations in 2019. In addition to our strategic initiatives, every year we sponsor numerous activities to promote greater diversity and inclusiveness, including events and communications around International Women's Day and Pride Month. In 2019, we sponsored 43 employee networks globally, including networks focused on culture, gender, ethnicity, family, mental health, disability, Pride / LGBTQ and veterans topics. Client experience  Implement new tool to handle client complaints as well as requests in connection with FADP (Swiss  The workflow-tool for processing FADP client requests was deployed in October 2019 On track Federal Act on Data Protection) / EU GDPR (General Data Protection Regulation)  Alignment was completed with policy update and communication to Client Advisors Achieved  Finalize alignment of complaint process with FIDLEG (Swiss Financial Services Act)  Process is being finalized: ongoing discussions with stakeholder to define responsibilities On track  Define rules / processes for handling data requests under FIDLEG GRI 417: Marketing Suitability: and Labeling  Implement the new Swiss FIDLEG law applicable to financial service delivery in Switzerland  Implementation of Swiss FIDLEG under way (FIDLEG entered into force on 1 Jan 2020) On track  Implement the 2018 ESMA Guidelines on certain aspects of MIFID II suitability requirements for MIFID All MIFID requirements have been implemented and compliance gaps closed. Achieved affected clients GRI 206: AntiMaintain an effectively designed and operating conduct risk framework with standards consistently applied Conduct risk framework is operating effectively across all businesses, functions and regions. Closure Achieved competitive across all businesses, functions and regions of various conduct risk framework-related issues and remediation throughout 2019. Behavior; GRI 418: Customer Privacy; GRI 419: Socioeconomic Compliance Digital innovation Technology spending to be maintained at current levels (~3.5 bn CHF) with a focus on advanced technology  Maintained ~USD 3.5 billion tech spend Achieved to enable business growth and innovation and create further efficiencies.  Innovative client solutions delivered across business division and corporate centers  Continuation of cloud journey incl. public cloud and O365 adoption with 10K users onboarded  AI governance underway; 100 +PoC (Proof of Concepts) and experiments and 30+ applications in production of implementation across the company  Digital factories and labs opened in Singapore, Zurich and the US 139 Appendix 3 – Sustainability objectives and achievements Objectives 2020 UBS in society UBS in society is committed to making UBS a force for driving positive change in society and the environment for future generations. It will do so by focusing our firm on creating longterm positive impact for clients, employees, investors and society. We intend to make sustainable performance the standard across our firm and part of every client conversation. To implement our strategy, we have defined firm-wide goals that we plan to achieve by the end of 2025. Please refer to page 48 of this Sustainability Report for an overview of these mid-term goals. The following 2020 UBS in society objectives are aligned to these mid-term goals. Material GRI topics Objectives 2020 FS Product Portfolio; Sustainable investments / finance: FS Active Ownership  Make progress towards our mid-term goal to direct USD 5 billion of client assets into new SDG-related impact investments to help mainstream the asset class and its contribution to the SDGs (by the end of 2021)  GWM to continue to add funds and exchange-traded funds (ETFs) with SI focus or stronger SI integration to the fund shelf  P&C to increase sustainable solutions and facilitate further increase by benefit-oriented client advice, and by leveraging digital technologies  P&C to be the preferred strategic partner for advisory and financing transactions related to Switzerland’s energy strategy 2050  IB to encourage corporate disclosure and drive client dialogue around relevant Environment, Social and Governance (ESG) matters; as well as increase the number of green and sustainable bond (or similar) mandates  AM to continue marketing sustainable investing to institutional clients. GRI 201: Economic Performance; Climate strategy: GRI 302: Energy; GRI 305: Emissions; AM to continue expanding climate solutions and engagement programs, as well as collaboration with Climate Action 100+. FS Product Portfolio; FS Active Ownership Climate risk objectives (following the 5-year TCFD implementation path by 2022):  Further align UBS's risk appetite with the Paris Agreement and conduct portfolio reviews on climate-sensitive sectors  Further develop climate risk methodologies in-house and through participation in industry-wide working groups (UNEP FI TCFD Phase II; PACTA pilot by Two Degrees Investing Initiative and Institute of International Finance (IIF))  Address emerging regulatory expectations regarding the identification and management of climate risks. Execute on 2020 greenhouse gas / energy reduction target and RE100 implementation plan:  Reduce greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions by 75% below 2004 level  Reduce energy consumption by 5% below 2016 level  Increase share of renewable electricity to 100% by mid-2020. Execute on 2020 operational environmental targets for water, paper and waste:  Reduce water consumption by 5% below 2016 level  Reduce paper consumption per full-time employee (FTE) by 5% below 2016 level  Increase share of sustainable (FSC / recycled) to 90%  Reduce waste per FTE by 5% below 2016 level  Increase waste recycling ratio to 60%. 140 Material GRI topics Objectives 2020 FS Product Portfolio; Pioneer new ways to finance international aid in partnership with bilateral or multilateral agencies, foundations and/or the private sector GRI 203: Indirect Economic Impacts FS Product Portfolio;  All business divisions to further support the development of sustainable finance (e.g., internal / external communication, events, research and whitepapers) FS Active Ownership  IB to maintain leadership position in ESG Integration / Sustainable Investing research through the collaborative delivery of differentiated content and client events. GRI 203: Indirect Economic Impacts  Achieve a volunteering rate of 40% of employees by the end of 2020, with 40% of volunteers’ time directed at skills-based programs  Community Affairs to maintain the 2019 percentage of beneficiaries reporting significant improvement in skills or transformation in quality of life resulting from UBS's investment. GRI 308: Supplier Environmental Assessment; Responsible Supply Chain Management – review product catalogue and increase the number of sustainable products. GRI 414: Supplier Social Assessment FS Audit;  Strengthen Environmental Social and Governance (ESG) disclosures in the UBS Annual Report 2019 by including a focus on ESG section GRI 201: Economic Performance;  Execute firm-wide ISO 14001 surveillance audit and ensure continued certification by addressing audit findings FS Product Portfolio;  Start the preparation work for the implementation of the UNEP FI Principles for Responsible Banking (PRB). FS Active Ownership 141 Appendix 3 – Sustainability objectives and achievements Other areas Material GRI topics Objectives 2020 GRI 201: Economic Performance; Operational efficiency and Targets, capital and resource guidelines 2020-2022 (on a reported basis): effectiveness  Group returns: 12–15% return on CET1 capital (RoCET1)  Cost efficiency: Positive operating leverage and 75–78% cost / income ratio  Growth 10–15% profit before tax growth in Global Wealth Management  Capital allocation: Up to 1/3 of Group RWA and LRD in the Investment Bank  Capital guidance: ~13% CET1 capital ratio; ~3.7% CET1 leverage ratio GRI 205: Anti-Corruption Review UBS’s financial crime framework to ensure that emerging risks are reflected. GRI 401: Employment; Build engagement and strengthen our corporate culture Working culture and environment  Reinforce culture programs across the organization  Promote a feedback culture and measure, foster and recognize the UBS behaviors of integrity, collaboration and challenge  Remain an employer of choice for employees at all career stages  Attract the right external talent and maintain a highly motivated workforce  Continue to foster internal mobility and provide long-term career prospects GRI 404 Training and Education Effectively develop, manage and retain our talent  Emphasize future-skills development and personal growth for all employees  Ensure that our leaders have the skills they need to grow their businesses and their people in an age of digital transformation GRI 405: Diversity and Equal Opportunity; Strengthen our diverse and inclusive workplace GRI 406: Non-Discrimination  Aspiration to increase the ratio of women in management roles to one-third  Expansion of understanding and skill base around Inclusive Leadership  Implement supporting initiatives to hire, promote and retain more women at all levels of the organization Client experience  Rollout of a new client feedback tool to handle client complaints in Booking Center CH  Rollout of a web-based training for dealing with client complaints GRI 417: Marketing and Labeling Suitability:  Implement the new Swiss FIDLEG law applicable to financial service delivery in Switzerland  Assess and implement changes made to the EU regulations pursuant to sustainable investments and other ESG ₋ Environmental, Social and Governance criteria GRI 206: Anti-competitive Behavior; Promote and maintain an effectively designed and operating conduct risk framework as the conduct risk discipline continues to mature and regulators converge on requirements and expectations. GRI 418: Customer Privacy; GRI 419: Socioeconomic Compliance Digital innovation Technology spending to be maintained at current levels (~3.5 bn USD) with a continued focus on modularization and modernization of our estate, leveraging innovation and ecosystem to enable business growth and create further efficiencies. 142 Global Reporting Initiative Content Index 2019 This content index refers to the Global Reporting Initiative (GRI) Standards issued by the Global Sustainability Standards Board and the Financial Services Sector Supplements, which form together a voluntary reporting framework that provides guidance on how organizations can disclose their sustainability performance. UBS’s reporting has been reviewed by Ernst & Young Ltd (EY) against the GRI Standards. The content has been prepared in accordance with the comprehensive option as evidenced in the EY assurance report. The limited assurance by EY covered all items of the GRI Content Index. This report has been prepared in accordance with the GRI Standards: Comprehensive option. Guidance Disclosure Number and title of disclosure Reference Referenced text which covers the GRI Standard Page Page reference in the UBS Annual Report 2019 (UBS AR 2019) or UBS Sustainability Report 2019 (UBS SR 2019) Note Topics in the index that do not feature a management approach are not material, but are reported on a voluntary basis (selected indicators only). All references to the Annual Report 2019 are referring to the combined UBS Group AG and UBS AG Annual Report 2019 available on www.ubs.com/investors. 143 Appendix 4 – Global Reporting Initiative content index GRI Standard Disclosure Reference Page GRI 102 General 102–1 Name of organization Corporate information UBS AR 2019 / 7 Disclosures (2016) 102–2 Activities, brands, products, and Our strategy UBS SR 2019 / 7–8 services Global Wealth Management UBS SR 2019 / 11–13 Personal & Corporate Banking UBS SR 2019 / 14–15 Asset Management UBS SR 2019 / 16–17 Investment Bank UBS SR 2019 / 18–19 Corporate Center UBS SR 2019 / 20 102–3 Location of headquarters Corporate information UBS AR 2019 / 7 102–4 Location of operations Global Wealth Management UBS SR 2019 / 11–13 Personal & Corporate Banking UBS SR 2019 / 14–15 Asset Management UBS SR 2019 / 16–17 Investment Bank UBS SR 2019 / 18–19 Further information reg. locations, incl. list of all UBS Branches worldwide can be found under https://www.ubs.com/global/en/ about_ubs/about_us/locations.html 102–5 Ownership and legal form Corporate information UBS AR 2019 / 7 Group structure and shareholders UBS AR 2019 / 204–205 Share capital structure UBS AR 2019 / 206–210 102–6 Markets served Our strategy UBS SR 2019 / 7–8 Global Wealth Management UBS SR 2019 / 11–13 Personal & Corporate Banking UBS SR 2019 / 14–15 Asset Management UBS SR 2019 / 16–17 Investment Bank UBS SR 2019 / 18–19 102–7 Scale of the organization Our key figures UBS AR 2019 / 8 Note 2a Segment reporting UBS AR 2019 / 353–356 Note 2b Segment reporting by geographic location UBS AR 2019 / 357 102–8 Information on employees and Employees (additional information) UBS SR 2019 / 38–45 other workers Employees UBS SR 2019 / 35–37 102–9 Supply chain Vendors UBS SR 2019 / 50 Responsible supply chain management UBS SR 2019 / 93 102–10 Significant changes to the Our evolution UBS AR 2019 / 14–15 organization and its supply chain Note 1b Changes in accounting policies, comparability UBS AR 2019 / 349–351 and other adjustments Note 32 Changes in organization and acquisitions and UBS AR 2019 / 470–471 disposals of subsidiaries and businesses 102–11 Precautionary Principle or Risk management and control UBS AR 2019 / 105–155 approach Key policies and guidelines UBS SR 2019 / 51–52 102–12 External initiatives External commitments and memberships UBS SR 2019 / 97 Advancing sustainability in the financial sector UBS SR 2019 / 76–77 102–13 Membership of associations See 102–12 UBS SR 2019 / 97 UBS SR 2019 / 76–77 102–14 Statement from senior Chairman’s statement UBS SR 2019 / 3–4 decision-maker 144 GRI Standard Disclosure Reference Page GRI 102 General 102–15 Key impacts, risks, and Sustainability at UBS UBS SR 2019 / 5–6 Disclosures (2016) opportunities Our strategy, business model and environment UBS SR 2019 / 7–50 Risk management and control UBS AR 2019 / 105–155 Risk evaluation UBS SR 2019 / 165 Objectives and achievements 2019 UBS SR 2019 / 135–139 Objectives 2020 UBS SR 2019 / 140–142 Sustainability governance UBS SR 2019 / 51–53 102–16 Values, principles, standards, Our Code of Conduct and Ethics UBS SR 2019 / 113–116 and norms of behavior Key policies and guidelines UBS SR 2019 / 51–52 The keys to a strong corporate culture UBS SR 2019 / 35 Pillars, Principles and Behaviors (foldout pages) UBS AR 2019 / 0 102–17 Mechanisms for advice and Our Code of Conduct and Ethics UBS SR 2019 / 113–116 concerns about ethics Key policies and guidelines UBS SR 2019 / 51–52 Quality feedback management system UBS SR 2019 / 29 Grievance mechanisms UBS SR 2019 / 129 102–18 Governance structure Board of Directors UBS AR 2019 / 213–228 Group Executive Board UBS AR 2019 / 229–236 Charter of the Corporate Culture and Responsibility UBS SR 2019 / 112 Committee Sustainability governance UBS SR 2019 / 51–53 102–19 Delegating authority Charter of the Corporate Culture and Responsibility UBS SR 2019 / 112 Committee Sustainability governance UBS SR 2019 / 51–53 102–20 Executive-level responsibility for Sustainability governance UBS SR 2019 / 51–53 economic, environmental, and social Charter of the Corporate Culture and Responsibility UBS SR 2019 / 112 topics Committee 102–21 Consulting stakeholders on Chairman’s statement UBS SR 2019 / 3–4 economic, environmental, and social How we create value for our stakeholders UBS SR 2019 / 25–50 topics Shareholders’ participation rights UBS AR 2019 / 211–212 Corporate calendar UBS Group AG UBS AR 2019 / 7 102–22 Composition of highest Board of Directors UBS AR 2019 / 213–228 governance body Group Executive Board UBS AR 2019 / 229–236 Sustainability governance UBS SR 2019 / 51–53 102–23 Chair of the highest governance Not relevant to UBS (two-tiered board structure) body Board of Directors UBS AR 2019 / 213–228 102–24 Nominating and selecting the Sustainable performance and compensation UBS SR 2019 / 64–65 highest governance body Board of Directors UBS AR 2019 / 213–228 Elections and terms of office Organizational principles and structure Governance and Nominating Committee Skills, expertise and training of the Board of Directors Succession planning 102–25 Conflicts of interest Key policies and guidelines (Code of Conduct and Ethics) UBS SR 2019 / 51–52 Important business connections of independent UBS AR 2019/ 226 members of the Board of Directors 102–26 Role of highest governance Sustainability governance UBS SR 2019 / 51–53 body in setting purpose, values, and Charter of the Corporate Culture and Responsibility UBS SR 2019 / 112 strategy Committee Chairman’s statement UBS SR 2019 / 3–4 102–27 Collective knowledge of highest Skills, expertise and training of the Board of Directors UBS AR 2019 / 227 governance body 145 Appendix 4 – Global Reporting Initiative content index GRI Standard Disclosure Reference Page GRI 102 General 102–28 Evaluating the highest Performance assessment UBS AR 2019 / 222 Disclosures (2016) governance body’s performance Sustainable performance and compensation UBS SR 2019 / 64–65 102–29 Identifying and managing Sustainability governance UBS SR 2019 / 51–53 economic, environmental, and social Charter of the Corporate Culture and Responsibility UBS SR 2019 / 112 impacts Committee Chairman’s statement UBS SR 2019 / 3–4 How we create value for our stakeholders UBS SR 2019 / 25–50 Materiality under GRI Standards UBS SR 2019 / 66–69 102–30 Effectiveness of risk Charter of the Corporate Culture and Responsibility UBS SR 2019 / 112 management processes Committee 102–31 Review of economic, Board of Directors – Corporate Culture and Responsibility UBS AR 2019 / 224 environmental, and social topics Committee 102–32 Highest governance body’s role Charter of the Corporate Culture and Responsibility UBS SR 2019 / 112 in sustainability reporting Committee 102–33 Communicating critical Sustainability governance UBS SR 2019 / 51–53 concerns Charter of the Corporate Culture and Responsibility UBS SR 2019 / 112 Committee Chairman’s statement UBS SR 2019 / 3–4 Grievances and whistleblowing protection, policies and UBS SR 2019 / 52 procedures 102–34 Nature and total number of Materiality under GRI Standards UBS SR 2019 / 66–69 critical concerns How we create value for our stakeholders UBS SR 2019 / 25–50 Note: Due to the diverse nature and sources of critical concerns it is not possible to report their total number. 102–35 Remuneration policies Compensation Report 2019 UBS AR 2019 / 242–288 Sustainable performance and compensation UBS SR 2019 / 64–65 102–36 Process for determining Compensation Report 2019 UBS AR 2019 / 242–288 remuneration 102–37 Stakeholders’ involvement in How we create value for our stakeholders UBS SR 2019 / 25–50 remuneration Shareholders’ participation rights UBS AR 2019 / 211–212 Corporate calendar UBS Group AG UBS AR 2019 / 7 Compensation report – Overview of the performance UBS AR 2019 / 268 assessment measures Shareholder engagement and say on pay UBS AR 2019 / 246–249 Note: Voting results of AGMs are published on www.ubs.com/agm 102–38 Annual total compensation Reason for omission: Not disclosed due to confidentiality ratio Compensation for the CEO, the highest paid GEB UBS AR 2019 / 242–288 member, total compensation for GEB members, compensation for the BoD members, including the Chairman, and compensation for employees other than GEB members are disclosed in the Compensation Report 2019. 102–39 Percentage increase in annual Reason for omission: Not disclosed due to confidentiality total compensation ratio Compensation increase for the CEO, the highest paid UBS AR 2019 / 242–288 GEB member, total compensation for GEB members, compensation for the BoD members, including the Chairman, and general employee compensation for employees other than GEB members are disclosed in the Compensation Report 2019. 146 GRI Standard Disclosure Reference Page GRI 102 General 102–40 List of stakeholder groups How we create value for our stakeholders UBS SR 2019 / 25–50 Disclosures (2016) Materiality under GRI Standards UBS SR 2019 / 66–69 102–41 Collective bargaining Employee representation UBS SR 2019 / 38 agreements 102–42 Identifying and selecting See 102–40 UBS SR 2019 / 25–50 stakeholders UBS SR 2019 / 66–69 102–43 Approach to stakeholder See 102–40 UBS SR 2019 / 25–50 engagement UBS SR 2019 / 66–69 102–44 Key topics and concerns raised See 102–40 UBS SR 2019 / 25–50 UBS SR 2019 / 66–69 102–45 Entities included in the Our external reporting approach UBS AR 2019 (at the very consolidated financial statements beginning of the report) Our evolution UBS AR 2019 / 14–15 Note 1 Summary of significant accounting policies UBS AR 2019 / 317–352 Note 31 Interests in subsidiaries and other entities UBS AR 2019 / 464–469 Note: Except where clearly identified, all of UBS’s sustainability information referenced in this GRI index is presented on a consolidated basis under IFRS requirements for financial reporting for the UBS Group AG. 102–46 Defining report content and Information policy UBS AR 2019 / 240–241 topic boundaries How we create value for our stakeholders UBS SR 2019 / 25–50 Materiality under GRI Standards UBS SR 2019 / 66–69 Impact of material GRI topics UBS SR 2019 / 131 102–47 List of material topics Material GRI topics 2019 UBS SR 2019 / 67–69 102–48 Restatements of information None 102–49 Changes in reporting No significant changes 102–50 Reporting period 1.1.2019–31.12.2019 102–51 Date of most recent report 15.3.2019 102–52 Reporting cycle Financial reporting: quarterly Sustainability reporting: annually 102–53 Contact point for questions Questions related to Annual Report: Contacts UBS AR 2019 / 7 regarding the report Questions related to Sustainability Report: Contacts UBS SR 2019 / 2 102–54 Claims of reporting in GRI content index UBS SR 2019 / 143 accordance with the GRI standards Independent assurance report by EY UBS SR 2019 / 105–106 102–55 GRI content index 102–56 External assurance Auditors UBS AR 2019 / 238–239 Management’s report on internal control over financial UBS AR 2019 / 292–305 reporting Independent assurance report by EY UBS SR 2019 / 105–106 About this Sustainability Report UBS SR 2019 / 2 147 Appendix 4 – Global Reporting Initiative content index GRI Standard Disclosure Reference Page Economic Performance (Material topics: Operational efficiency and effectiveness; Climate action) GRI 103 103–1 Explanation of the material topic Materiality under GRI Standards UBS SR 2019 / 66–69 Management and its boundary Impact of material GRI topics UBS SR 2019 / 131 Approach (2016) Our approach to long-term value creation UBS SR 2019 (at the very beginning of the report) 103–2 The management approach and Our strategy UBS SR 2019 / 7–8 its components Performance targets and measurement UBS SR 2019 / 9 Our key figures UBS AR 2019 / 8 Group Internal Audit UBS AR 2019 / 239 Organizational principles and structure UBS AR 2019 / 221 Our climate strategy UBS SR 2019 / 54–63 Charter of the Corporate Culture and Responsibility UBS SR 2019 / 112 Committee Sustainability governance UBS SR 2019 / 51–53 Objectives 2020 UBS SR 2019 / 140–142 Objectives and achievements 2019 UBS SR 2019 / 135–139 Information relevant to all material topics UBS SR 2019 / 129 103–3 Evaluation of the management Evaluation of management approaches UBS SR 2019 / 129 approach Our strategy UBS SR 2019 / 7–8 Performance targets and measurement UBS SR 2019 / 9 Our climate strategy UBS SR 2019 / 54–63 GRI 201 Economic 201–1 Direct economic value generated Direct economic value generated and distributed by UBS UBS SR 2019 / 133 Performance (2016) and distributed Group AG consolidated in 2019 Income statement UBS AR 2019 / 306 Statement of cash flows UBS AR 2019 / 315–316 Note 6 Personnel expenses UBS AR 2019 / 360 Note 7 General and administrative expenses UBS AR 2019 / 360 Note 8 Income taxes UBS AR 2019 / 361–364 Driving change in communities UBS SR 2019 / 98–102 Vendors (total purchase amount) UBS SR 2019 / 50 201–2 Financial implications and other Our climate strategy UBS SR 2019 / 54–63 risks and opportunities for the organization’s activities due to climate Refer to Submission to the CDP climate change change questionnaire for further information 201–3 Defined benefit plan obligations Note 29 Pension and other post-employment benefit UBS AR 2019 / 442–455 and other retirement plans plans 201–4 Financial assistance received from UBS did not receive any significant monetary support government from governments in 2019 Indirect Economic Impacts (Community investment) GRI 103 103–1 Explanation of the material topic Materiality under GRI Standards UBS SR 2019 / 66–69 Management and its boundary Impact of material GRI topics UBS SR 2019 / 131 Approach (2016) Our approach to long-term value creation UBS SR 2019 (at the very beginning of the report) 103–2 The management approach and Sustainability governance UBS SR 2019 / 51–53 its components Society UBS SR 2019 / 46–48 Indirect economic impacts UBS SR 2019 / 129 Objectives 2020 UBS SR 2019 / 140–142 Objectives and achievements 2019 UBS SR 2019 / 135–139 Information relevant to all material topics UBS SR 2019 / 129 103–3 Evaluation of the management Evaluation of management approaches UBS SR 2019 / 129 approach 148 GRI Standard Disclosure Reference Page GRI 203 Indirect 203–1 Infrastructure investments and Driving change in communities UBS SR 2019 / 98–102 Economic Impacts services supported (2016) 203–2 Significant indirect economic Indirect economic impacts UBS SR 2019 / 129 impacts Recovery and resolution UBS AR 2019 / 51–53 Personal & Corporate Banking UBS SR 2019 / 14–15 Society UBS SR 2019 / 46–48 Sustainability at UBS UBS SR 2019 / 5–6 For further information see also https://www.ubs.com/ch/en/ Switzerland and UBS – Strong partners microsites/switzerland-factsfigures-and-stories/switzerlandand-ubs.html Anti–corruption (Regulatory compliance) GRI 103 103–1 Explanation of the material topic Materiality under GRI Standards UBS SR 2019 / 66–69 Management and its boundary Impact of material GRI topics UBS SR 2019 / 131 Approach (2016) Our approach to long-term value creation UBS SR 2019 (at the very beginning of the report) 103–2 The management approach and Sustainability governance UBS SR 2019 / 51–53 its components Policies to combat financial crime UBS SR 2019 / 52 Combating financial crime UBS SR 2019 / 94 Objectives 2020 UBS SR 2019 / 140–142 Objectives and achievements 2019 UBS SR 2019 / 135–139 Information relevant to all material topics UBS SR 2019 / 129 103–3 Evaluation of the management Evaluation of management approaches UBS SR 2019 / 129 approach GRI 205 Anti– 205–1 Operations assessed for risks Combating financial crime UBS SR 2019 / 94 corruption (2016) related to corruption 205–2 Communication and training Sustainability-related training and raising awareness UBS SR 2019 / 64 about anti–corruption policies and Responsible supply chain management – Committing our UBS SR 2019 / 93 procedures vendors to our standards 205–3 Confirmed incidents of Reason for omission: UBS AR 2019 / 387–394 corruption and actions taken Confidentiality constraints: UBS treats this data as confidential company information. Significant cases would be discussed in Note 21 b) Litigation, regulatory and similar matters of the UBS Annual Report. Anti–competitive Behavior (Regulatory compliance) GRI 103 103–1 Explanation of the material topic Materiality under GRI Standards UBS SR 2019 / 66–69 Management and its boundary Impact of material GRI topics UBS SR 2019 / 131 Approach (2016) Our approach to long-term value creation UBS SR 2019 (at the very beginning of the report) 103–2 The management approach and Risk appetite framework UBS AR 2019 / 111–114 its components Operational risk UBS AR 2019 / 153–155 Our Code of Conduct and Ethics UBS SR 2019 / 113–116 Objectives 2020 UBS SR 2019 / 140–142 Objectives and achievements 2019 UBS SR 2019 / 135–139 Information relevant to all material topics UBS SR 2019 / 129 103–3 Evaluation of the management Evaluation of management approaches UBS SR 2019 / 129 approach GRI 206 Anti206–1 Legal actions for anti-competitive See GRI 419–1 competitive behavior, anti-trust, and monopoly Behavior (2016) practices 149 Appendix 4 – Global Reporting Initiative content index GRI Standard Disclosure Reference Page Materials GRI 301 Materials 301–1 Materials used by weight or Paper is the only relevant material for this indicator (2016) volume. In-house environmental management – Paper UBS SR 2019 / 88 301–2 Recycled input materials used Paper is the only relevant material for this indicator In-house environmental management – Paper UBS SR 2019 / 88 Energy (Climate action) GRI 103 103–1 Explanation of the material topic Materiality under GRI Standards UBS SR 2019 / 66–69 Management and its boundary Impact of material GRI topics UBS SR 2019 / 131 Approach (2016) Our approach to long-term value creation UBS SR 2019 (at the very beginning of the report) 103–2 The management approach and Sustainability governance UBS SR 2019 / 51–53 its components Sustainability-related training and raising awareness UBS SR 2019 / 64 UBS in society management indicators UBS SR 2019 / 128 Our climate strategy UBS SR 2019 / 54–63 Environmental targets and performance in our UBS SR 2019 / 82 operations UBS in society constitutional document UBS SR 2019 / 117–119 Objectives 2020 UBS SR 2019 / 140–142 Objectives and achievements 2019 UBS SR 2019 / 135–139 Information relevant to all material topics UBS SR 2019 / 129 Refer to Submission to the CDP climate change questionnaire for further information 103–3 Evaluation of the management Evaluation of management approaches UBS SR 2019 / 129 approach ISO 14001 and 50001 certificates UBS SR 2019 / 107–110 150 GRI Standard Disclosure Reference Page GRI 302 Energy 302–1 Energy consumption within the GHG emissions UBS SR 2019 / 83 (2016) organization Energy consumption UBS SR 2019 / 85 Environmental indicators UBS SR 2019 / 91 Reporting standards and methodologies UBS SR 2019 / 89–90 302–2 Energy consumption outside of Not relevant the organization 302–3 Energy intensity Environmental indicators per full time employee UBS SR 2019 / 92 Reporting standards and methodologies UBS SR 2019 / 89–90 302–4 Reduction of energy GHG emissions UBS SR 2019 / 83 consumption Energy consumption UBS SR 2019 / 85 Environmental targets and performance in our UBS SR 2019 / 82 operations Reporting standards and methodologies UBS SR 2019 / 89–90 302–5 Reductions in energy Not relevant for financial institutions, see FS8 requirements of products and services Emissions (Climate action) GRI 103 103–1 Explanation of the material topic Materiality under GRI Standards UBS SR 2019 / 66–69 Management and its boundary Impact of material GRI topics UBS SR 2019 / 131 Approach (2016) Our approach to long-term value creation UBS SR 2019 (at the very beginning of the report) 103–2 The management approach and Sustainability governance UBS SR 2019 / 51–53 its components Sustainability-related training and raising awareness UBS SR 2019 / 64 UBS in society management indicators UBS SR 2019 / 128 Our climate strategy UBS SR 2019 / 54–63 Environmental targets and performance in our UBS SR 2019 / 82 operations UBS in society constitutional document UBS SR 2019 / 117–119 Objectives 2020 UBS SR 2019 / 140–142 Objectives and achievements 2019 UBS SR 2019 / 135–139 Information relevant to all material topics UBS SR 2019 / 129 Refer to Submission to the CDP climate change questionnaire for further information 103–3 Evaluation of the management Evaluation of management approaches UBS SR 2019 / 129 approach ISO 14001 and 50001 certificates UBS SR 2019 / 107–110 GRI 305 Emissions 305–1 Direct (Scope 1) GHG emissions Environmental indicators UBS SR 2019 / 91 (2016) GHG emissions UBS SR 2019 / 83 Reporting standards and methodologies UBS SR 2019 / 89–90 305–2 Energy indirect (Scope 2) GHG Environmental indicators UBS SR 2019 / 91 emissions GHG emissions UBS SR 2019 / 83 Reporting standards and methodologies UBS SR 2019 / 89–90 305–3 Other indirect (Scope 3) GHG Environmental indicators UBS SR 2019 / 91 emissions GHG emissions UBS SR 2019 / 83 Reporting standards and methodologies UBS SR 2019 / 89–90 305–4 GHG emissions intensity Environmental indicators per full time employee UBS SR 2019 / 92 Reporting standards and methodologies UBS SR 2019 / 89–90 305–5 Reduction of GHG emissions see 302–4 305–6 Emissions of ozone-depleting Not relevant substances (ODS) 305–7 Nitrogen oxides (NOX), sulfur Not relevant oxides (SOX), and other significant air emissions 151 Appendix 4 – Global Reporting Initiative content index GRI Standard Disclosure Reference Page Effluents and Waste GRI 306 Effluents 306–2 Waste by type and disposal Environmental indicators UBS SR 2019 / 91 and Waste (2016) method Waste and recycling UBS SR 2019 / 89 Supplier Environmental Assessment (Environmental and social risk management) GRI 103 103–1 Explanation of the material topic Materiality under GRI Standards UBS SR 2019 / 66–69 Management and its boundary Impact of material GRI topics UBS SR 2019 / 131 Approach (2016) Our approach to long-term value creation UBS SR 2019 (at the very beginning of the report) 103–2 The management approach and Sustainability governance UBS SR 2019 / 51–53 its components Objectives 2020 UBS SR 2019 / 140–142 Objectives and achievements 2019 UBS SR 2019 / 135–139 UBS in society constitutional document UBS SR 2019 / 117–119 Responsible supply chain management UBS SR 2019 / 93 Information relevant to all material topics UBS SR 2019 / 129 103–3 Evaluation of the management Evaluation of management approaches UBS SR 2019 / 129 approach ISO 14001 and 50001 certificates UBS SR 2019 / 107–110 GRI 308 Supplier 308–1 New suppliers that were Responsible supply chain management UBS SR 2019 / 93 Environmental screened using environmental criteria Assessment (2016) 308–2 Negative environmental impacts Responsible supply chain management UBS SR 2019 / 93 in the supply chain and actions taken Employment (Compensation) GRI 103 103–1 Explanation of the material topic Materiality under GRI Standards UBS SR 2019 / 66–69 Management and its boundary Impact of material GRI topics UBS SR 2019 / 131 Approach (2016) Our approach to long-term value creation UBS SR 2019 (at the very beginning of the report) 103–2 The management approach and Compensation Committee UBS AR 2019 / 224 its components Employees UBS SR 2019 / 35–39 Compensation UBS AR 2019 / 242–288 Key policies and guidelines UBS SR 2019 / 51–52 Sustainable performance and compensation UBS SR 2019 / 64–65 Objectives 2020 UBS SR 2019 / 140–142 Objectives and achievements 2019 UBS SR 2019 / 135–139 Information relevant to specific material topics – UBS SR 2019 / 129–130 Employee topics Information relevant to all material topics UBS SR 2019 / 129 103–3 Evaluation of the management Evaluation of management approaches UBS SR 2019 / 129 approach GRI 401 401–1 New employee hires and Hiring, developing and retaining talent UBS SR 2019 / 36 Employment (2016) employee turnover Our workforce by the numbers UBS SR 2019 / 40–45 401–2 Benefits provided to full-time Managing our global workforce UBS SR 2019 / 39 employees that are not provided to temporary or part-time employees 401–3 Parental leave Managing our global workforce UBS SR 2019 / 39 UBS employees: parental leave taken UBS SR 2019 / 45 Reason for omission: Information unavailable for GRI 401–3 c), d) and e). Data aggregation is subject to limitations such as the disparate definitions and permutations of parental leave across the firm and the various leave and absence tools used in the more than 50 countries in which we operate. 152 GRI Standard Disclosure Reference Page Training and Education (Talent management) GRI 103 103–1 Explanation of the material topic Materiality under GRI Standards UBS SR 2019 / 66–69 Management and its boundary Impact of material GRI topics UBS SR 2019 / 131 Approach (2016) Our approach to long-term value creation UBS SR 2019 (at the very beginning of the report) 103–2 The management approach and Employees UBS SR 2019 / 35–39 its components Key policies and guidelines UBS SR 2019 / 51–52 Sustainable performance and compensation UBS SR 2019 / 64–65 Objectives 2020 UBS SR 2019 / 140–142 Objectives and achievements 2019 UBS SR 2019 / 135–139 Information relevant to specific material topics – UBS SR 2019 / 129–130 Employee topics Information relevant to all material topics UBS SR 2019 / 129 103–3 Evaluation of the management Evaluation of management approaches UBS SR 2019 / 129 approach GRI 404 Training 404–1 Average hours of training per UBS reports in training days instead of training hours. and Education year per employee One training day equals eight training hours. (2016) Hiring, developing and retaining talent UBS SR 2019 / 36 Our workforce by the numbers UBS SR 2019 / 40–45 404–2 Programs for upgrading Hiring, developing and retaining talent UBS SR 2019 / 36 employee skills and transition assistance The importance of diversity and inclusion UBS SR 2019 / 37 programs Managing our global workforce UBS SR 2019 / 39 404–3 Percentage of employees Sustainable performance and compensation UBS SR 2019 / 64–65 receiving regular performance and Hiring, developing and retaining talent UBS SR 2019 / 36 career development reviews As the performance review percentage covers 99,9% of all our eligible employees, there is no added value for further breakdown by gender or employment category. Diversity and Equal Opportunity (Diversity and inclusion) GRI 103 103–1 Explanation of the material topic Materiality under GRI Standards UBS SR 2019 / 66–69 Management and its boundary Impact of material GRI topics UBS SR 2019 / 131 Approach (2016) Our approach to long-term value creation UBS SR 2019 (at the very beginning of the report) 103–2 The management approach and Employees UBS SR 2019 / 35–39 its components Key policies and guidelines UBS SR 2019 / 51–52 Sustainable performance and compensation UBS SR 2019 / 64–65 Objectives 2020 UBS SR 2019 / 140–142 Objectives and achievements 2019 UBS SR 2019 / 135–139 Information relevant to specific material topics – UBS SR 2019 / 129–130 Employee topics Information relevant to all material topics UBS SR 2019 / 129 103–3 Evaluation of the management Evaluation of management approaches UBS SR 2019 / 129 approach 153 Appendix 4 – Global Reporting Initiative content index GRI Standard Disclosure Reference Page GRI 405 Diversity 405–1 Diversity of governance bodies The importance of diversity and inclusion UBS SR 2019 / 37 and Equal and employees Our workforce by the numbers UBS SR 2019 / 40–45 Opportunity (2016) Members of the Board of Directors UBS AR 2019 / 223–220 Skills, expertise and training of the Board of Directors UBS AR 2019 / 227 Members of the Group Executive Board UBS AR 2019 / 229–236 405–2 Ratio of basic salary and Hiring, developing and retaining talent UBS SR 2019 / 36 remuneration of women to men Our commitment to pay fairness UBS AR 2019 / 250 Sustainable performance and compensation UBS SR 2019 / 64–65 Total Reward Principles UBS AR 2019 / 250 Non-discrimination (Diversity and inclusion) GRI 103 103–1 Explanation of the material topic Materiality under GRI Standards UBS SR 2019 / 66–69 Management and its boundary Impact of material GRI topics UBS SR 2019 / 131 Approach (2016) Our approach to long-term value creation UBS SR 2019 (at the very beginning of the report) 103–2 The management approach and Employees UBS SR 2019 / 35–39 its components Key policies and guidelines UBS SR 2019 / 51–52 Sustainable performance and compensation UBS SR 2019 / 64–65 Objectives 2020 UBS SR 2019 / 140–142 Objectives and achievements 2019 UBS SR 2019 / 135–139 Information relevant to specific material topics – UBS SR 2019 / 129–130 Employee topics Information relevant to all material topics UBS SR 2019 / 129 103–3 Evaluation of the management Evaluation of management approaches UBS SR 2019 / 129 approach GRI 406 Non406–1 Incidents of discrimination and Reason for omission: UBS AR 2019 / 387–394 discrimination corrective actions taken Confidentiality constraints: UBS treats this data as (2016) confidential company information. Significant cases would be discussed in Note 21 b) Litigation, regulatory and similar matters of the UBS Annual Report. Supplier Social Assessment (Environmental and social risk management) GRI 103 103–1 Explanation of the material topic Materiality under GRI Standards UBS SR 2019 / 66–69 Management and its boundary Impact of material GRI topics UBS SR 2019 / 131 Approach (2016) Our approach to long-term value creation UBS SR 2019 (at the very beginning of the report) 103–2 The management approach and Sustainability governance UBS SR 2019 / 51–53 its components Objectives 2020 UBS SR 2019 / 140–142 Objectives and achievements 2019 UBS SR 2019 / 135–139 UBS in society constitutional document UBS SR 2019 / 117–119 Responsible supply chain management UBS SR 2019 / 93 Information relevant to all material topics UBS SR 2019 / 129 103–3 Evaluation of the management Evaluation of management approaches UBS SR 2019 / 129 approach ISO 14001 and 50001 certificates UBS SR 2019 / 107–110 GRI 414 Supplier 414–1 New suppliers that were Responsible supply chain management UBS SR 2019 / 93 Social Assessment screened using social criteria (2016) 414–2 Negative social impacts in the Responsible supply chain management UBS SR 2019 / 93 supply chain and actions taken Local Communities GRI G4 Financial FS 14 Initiatives to improve access to Accessibility UBS SR 2019 / 30 Services Sector financial services for disadvantaged Disclosures people 154 GRI Standard Disclosure Reference Page Public Policy GRI 415 Public 415–1 Political contributions Politicians and political parties UBS SR 2019 / 49 Policy (2016) Marketing and Labelling (Regulatory compliance) GRI 103 103–1 Explanation of the material topic Materiality under GRI Standards UBS SR 2019 / 66–69 Management and its boundary Impact of material GRI topics UBS SR 2019 / 131 Approach (2016) Our approach to long-term value creation UBS SR 2019 (at the very GRI G4 Financial beginning of the report) Services Sector Disclosures 103–2 The management approach and Regulation and supervision UBS AR 2019 / 49–50 its components Our Code of Conduct and Ethics UBS SR 2019 / 113–116 Suitability UBS SR 2019 / 29–30 Key policies and guidelines UBS SR 2019 / 51–52 Quality feedback management system UBS SR 2019 / 29 Financial literacy UBS SR 2019 / 134 Objectives 2020 UBS SR 2019 / 140–142 Objectives and achievements 2019 UBS SR 2019 / 135–139 Information relevant to all material topics UBS SR 2019 / 129 103–3 Evaluation of the management Evaluation of management approaches UBS SR 2019 / 129 approach GRI 417 Marketing 417–1 Requirements for product and Not relevant for financial services company and Labelling (2016) service information and labelling See former FS15 which has been included in 103 for Marketing and Labelling (i.e., Suitability) 417–2 Incidents of non-compliance Reason for omission: UBS AR 2019 / 387–394 concerning product and service Confidentiality constraints: UBS treats this data as information and labelling confidential company information. Significant cases would be discussed in Note 21 b) Litigation, regulatory and similar matters of the UBS Annual Report. 417–3 Incidents of non-compliance Reason for omission: UBS AR 2019 / 387–394 concerning marketing communications Confidentiality constraints: UBS treats this data as confidential company information. Significant cases would be discussed in Note 21 b) Litigation, regulatory and similar matters of the UBS Annual Report. Customer Privacy (Regulatory compliance) GRI 103 103–1 Explanation of the material topic Materiality under GRI Standards UBS SR 2019 / 66–69 Management and its boundary Impact of material GRI topics UBS SR 2019 / 131 Approach (2016) Our approach to long-term value creation UBS SR 2019 (at the very beginning of the report) 103–2 The management approach and Regulation and supervision UBS AR 2019 / 49–50 its components Our Code of Conduct and Ethics UBS SR 2019 / 113–116 Information relevant to all material topics UBS SR 2019 / 129 Objectives 2020 UBS SR 2019 / 140–142 Objectives and achievements 2019 UBS SR 2019 / 135–139 103–3 Evaluation of the management Evaluation of management approaches UBS SR 2019 / 129 approach GRI 418 Customer 418–1 Substantiated complaints Reason for omission: UBS AR 2019 / 387–394 Privacy (2016) concerning breaches of customer Confidentiality constraints: UBS treats this data as privacy and losses of customer data confidential company information. Significant cases would be discussed in Note 21 b) Litigation, regulatory and similar matters of the UBS Annual Report. 155 Appendix 4 – Global Reporting Initiative content index GRI Standard Disclosure Reference Page Socioeconomic Compliance (Regulatory compliance; Diversity and inclusion) GRI 103 103–1 Explanation of the material topic Materiality under GRI Standards UBS SR 2019 / 66–69 Management and its boundary Impact of material GRI topics UBS SR 2019 / 131 Approach (2016) Our approach to long-term value creation UBS SR 2019 (at the very beginning of the report) 103–2 The management approach and Our Code of Conduct and Ethics UBS SR 2019 / 113–116 its components Operational risk UBS AR 2019 / 153–155 Information relevant to all material topics UBS SR 2019 / 129 Objectives 2020 UBS SR 2019 / 140–142 Objectives and achievements 2019 UBS SR 2019 / 135–139 103–3 Evaluation of the management Evaluation of management approaches UBS SR 2019 / 129 approach GRI 419 419–1 Non-compliance with laws and Reason for omission: UBS AR 2019 / 387–394 Socioeconomic regulations in the social and economic Confidentiality constraints: UBS treats this data as Compliance (2016) area confidential company information. Significant cases would be discussed in Note 21 b) Litigation, regulatory and similar matters of the UBS Annual Report. Product Portfolio (Climate action; Environmental and social risk management; Sustainable investing) GRI 103 103–1 Explanation of the material topic Materiality under GRI Standards UBS SR 2019 / 66–69 Management and its boundary Impact of material GRI topics UBS SR 2019 / 131 Approach (2016) Our approach to long-term value creation UBS SR 2019 (at the very beginning of the report) 103–2 The management approach and Sustainability governance UBS SR 2019 / 51–53 its components Our focus on ESG UBS SR 2019 / 31–33 Society UBS SR 2019 / 46–48 Key policies and guidelines UBS SR 2019 / 51–52 Our Code of Conduct and Ethics UBS SR 2019 / 113–116 UBS in society constitutional document UBS SR 2019 / 117–119 Our climate strategy UBS SR 2019 / 54–63 Objectives 2020 UBS SR 2019 / 140–142 Objectives and achievements 2019 UBS SR 2019 / 135–139 Environmental and social risk policy framework UBS SR 2019 / 120–126 Driving change in finance UBS SR 2019 / 70–74 Driving change in philanthropy UBS SR 2019 / 75 Sustainability-related training and raising awareness UBS SR 2019 / 64 UBS in society management indicators UBS SR 2019 / 128 Information relevant to all material topics UBS SR 2019 / 129 103–3 Evaluation of the management Evaluation of management approaches UBS SR 2019 / 129 approach ISO 14001 and 50001 certificates UBS SR 2019 / 107–110 156 GRI Standard Disclosure Reference Page GRI G4 Financial FS6 Percentage of the portfolio for Global Wealth Management UBS SR 2019 / 11–13 Services Sector business lines by specific region, size Global Wealth Management UBS AR 2019 / 85–87 Disclosures (e.g., micro/SME/large) and by sector Personal & Corporate Banking UBS SR 2019 / 14–15 Personal & Corporate Banking UBS AR 2019 / 88–92 Asset Management UBS SR 2019 / 16–17 Asset Management UBS AR 2019 / 93–96 Investment Bank UBS SR 2019 / 18–19 Investment Bank UBS AR 2019 / 97–100 Market risk UBS AR 2019 / 138–147 Country risk UBS AR 2019 / 148–152 Credit risk UBS AR 2019 / 119–137 Basel III Pillar 3 UBS Group AG 2019 report https://www.ubs.com/global/en/ investor-relations/financialinformation/pillar-3disclosures.html FS7 Monetary value of products and Driving change in philanthropy UBS SR 2019 / 75 services designed to deliver a specific social benefit for each business line broken down by purpose FS8 Monetary value of products and Our climate strategy UBS SR 2019 / 54–63 services designed to deliver a specific Calculating and reporting on climate change-related UBS SR 2019 / 132 environmental benefit for each business financing and advisory activities line broken down by purpose Audit (Environmental and social risk management) GRI 103 103–1 Explanation of the material topic Materiality under GRI Standards UBS SR 2019 / 66–69 Management and its boundary Impact of material GRI topics UBS SR 2019 / 131 Approach (2016) Our approach to long-term value creation UBS SR 2019 (at the very beginning of the report) 103–2 The management approach and UBS in society constitutional document UBS SR 2019 / 117–119 its components UBS in society management indicators UBS SR 2019 / 128 Objectives 2020 UBS SR 2019 / 140–142 Objectives and achievements 2019 UBS SR 2019 / 135–139 103–3 Evaluation of the management Evaluation of management approaches UBS SR 2019 / 129 approach ISO 14001 and 50001 certificate UBS SR 2019 / 107–110 157 Appendix 4 – Global Reporting Initiative content index GRI Standard Disclosure Reference Page Active Ownership (Sustainable investing) GRI 103 103–1 Explanation of the material topic Materiality under GRI Standards UBS SR 2019 / 66–69 Management and its boundary Impact of material GRI topics UBS SR 2019 / 131 Approach (2016) Our approach to long-term value creation UBS SR 2019 (at the very beginning of the report) 103–2 The management approach and Society UBS SR 2019 / 46–48 its components Sustainability governance UBS SR 2019 / 51–53 UBS in society constitutional document UBS SR 2019 / 117–119 Our focus on ESG UBS SR 2019 / 31–33 Driving change in finance UBS SR 2019 / 70–74 Environmental and social risk policy framework UBS SR 2019 / 120–126 Objectives 2020 UBS SR 2019 / 140–142 Objectives and achievements 2019 UBS SR 2019 / 135–139 Information relevant to all material topics UBS SR 2019 / 129 103–3 Evaluation of the management Evaluation of management approaches UBS SR 2019 / 129 approach ISO 14001 and 50001 certificate UBS SR 2019 / 107–110 GRI G4 Financial FS10 Percentage and number of Reason for omission: Our interactions with companies Services Sector companies held in the institution’s take a comprehensive ESG approach. Selective Disclosures portfolio with which the reporting quantitative data provision on environmental and social organization has interacted on issues only is therefore not practical. environmental or social issues Stewardship / voting rights UBS SR 2019 / 71 Climate strategy UBS SR 2019 / 50–51 FS11 Percentage of assets subject to Our focus on ESG UBS SR 2019 / 31–33 positive and negative environmental or Driving change in finance UBS SR 2019 / 70–74 social screening 158 Topics not covered by the topic-specific standards GRI Standard Disclosure Reference Page Digital Innovation GRI 103 103–1 Explanation of the material topic Materiality under GRI Standards UBS SR 2019 / 66–69 Management and its boundary Impact of material GRI topics UBS SR 2019 / 131 Approach (2016) Our approach to long-term value creation UBS SR 2019 (at the very beginning of the report) 103–2 The management approach and Enhancing the client experience through innovation and UBS SR 2019 / 27–28 its components digitalization Digital innovation UBS SR 2019 / 129 Information relevant to all material topics UBS SR 2019 / 129 Objectives 2020 UBS SR 2019 / 140–142 Objectives and achievements 2019 UBS SR 2019 / 135–139 103–3 Evaluation of the management Evaluation of management approaches UBS SR 2019 / 129 approach KPI: USD billion spent on technology Digital innovation UBS SR 2019 / 129 Operational Efficiency and Effectiveness GRI 103 103–1 Explanation of the material topic Materiality under GRI Standards UBS SR 2019 / 66–69 Management and its boundary Impact of material GRI topics UBS SR 2019 / 131 Approach (2016) Our approach to long-term value creation UBS SR 2019 (at the very beginning of the report) 103–2 The management approach and Corporate Center UBS SR 2019 / 20 its components Our strategy UBS SR 2019 / 7–8 Objectives 2020 UBS SR 2019 / 140–142 Objectives and achievements 2019 UBS SR 2019 / 135–139 Information relevant to all material topics UBS SR 2019 / 129 103–3 Evaluation of the management Evaluation of management approaches UBS SR 2019 / 129 approach KPI: Cost / income ration Our Key Figures UBS AR 2019 / 8 Client Experience GRI 103 103–1 Explanation of the material topic Materiality under GRI Standards UBS SR 2019 / 66–69 Management and its boundary Impact of material GRI topics UBS SR 2019 / 131 Approach (2016) Our approach to long-term value creation UBS SR 2019 (at the very beginning of the report) 103–2 The management approach and Our Code of Conduct and Ethics UBS SR 2019 / 113–116 its components Quality feedback management system UBS SR 2019 / 29 Clients UBS SR 2019 / 26–33 Current market climate and industry trends UBS SR 2019 / 21–24 Our strategy UBS SR 2019 / 7–8 Objectives 2020 UBS SR 2019 / 140–142 Objectives and achievements 2019 UBS SR 2019 / 135–139 Information relevant to all material topics UBS SR 2019 / 129 103–3 Evaluation of the management Evaluation of management approaches UBS SR 2019 / 129 approach KPI: Net new money growth (%) for Global Wealth Management UBS AR 2019 / 85 Global Wealth Management Net new money growth 159 Appendix 4 – Global Reporting Initiative content index GRI Standard Disclosure Reference Page Working Culture and Environment GRI 103 103–1 Explanation of the material topic Materiality under GRI Standards UBS SR 2019 / 66–69 Management and its boundary Impact of material GRI topics UBS SR 2019 / 131 Approach (2016) Our approach to long-term value creation UBS SR 2019 (at the very beginning of the report) 103–2 The management approach and Compensation Committee UBS AR 2019 / 224 its components Employees UBS SR 2019 / 35–39 Society UBS SR 2019 / 46–48 Key policies and guidelines UBS SR 2019 / 51–52 Sustainable performance and compensation UBS SR 2019 / 64–65 Objectives 2020 UBS SR 2019 / 140–142 Objectives and achievements 2019 UBS SR 2019 / 135–139 Information relevant to specific material topics – UBS SR 2019 / 129–130 Employee topics Health and safety statement UBS SR 2019 / 127 Our Code of Conduct and Ethics UBS SR 2019 / 113–116 Information relevant to all material topics UBS SR 2019 / 129 103–3 Evaluation of the management Evaluation of management approaches UBS SR 2019 / 129 approach KPI: Employer of choice Society – Aims and progress UBS SR 2019 / 48 160 Sustainability Accounting Standards Board Index 2019 Reporting under the Sustainability Accounting Standards Board (SASB) standards for the first time, we have focused on the three sector standards most relevant to our firm: Asset Management & Custody Activities, Investment Banking & Brokerage and Commercial Banks. Except where clearly identified, all of UBS’s information included in this index is presented for UBS Group AG and all its subsidiaries. While we do not disclose all information and metrics included in the SASB standards in our 2019 reporting, we are endeavoring to develop our disclosure over time and to close relevant gaps. Note All references to the Annual Report 2019 are referring to the combined UBS Group AG and UBS AG Annual Report 2019 available on www.ubs.com/investors. 161 Appendix 5 – Sustainability Accounting Standards Board index SASB Code Accounting Metric Reference Page Disclosures Included in Multiple Sectors’ Standards FN-AC-330a.1 Percentage of gender and racial / ethnic Employees UBS SR 2019 / 35–45 FN-IB-330a.1 group representation for Our Code of Conduct and Ethics UBS SR 2019 / 113–116 (1) executive management, Skills, expertise and training of the Board of Directors UBS AR 2019 / 227 (2) non-executive management, Gender-related aspects in compensation UBS AR 2019 / 244 (3) professionals, and (4) all other employees FN-IB-510a.1 Total amount of monetary losses as a Note 21 Provisions and contingent liabilities UBS AR 2019 / 387–394 FN-CB-510a.1 result of legal proceedings associated FN-AC-510a.1 with fraud, insider trading, anti-trust, anti-competitive behavior, market manipulation, malpractice, or other related financial industry laws or regulations FN-AC-510a.2 Description of whistleblower policies Grievances and whistleblowing protection, policies and UBS SR 2019 / 52 FN-IB-510a.2 and procedures procedures FN-CB-510a.2 Upholding the Code UBS SR 2019 / 116 Grievance mechanism UBS SR 2019 / 129 Risk principles and risk culture UBS AR 2019 / 112 FN-IB-550a.1 Global Systemically Important Bank (GG-SIB information is included in our Pillar III Disclosure Pillar III Disclosure FN-CB-550a.1 SIB) score, by category (see https://www.ubs.com/global/en/investorrelations/financial-information/pillar-3-disclosures.html) Regulation and supervision UBS AR 2019 / 49–53 FN-IB-550a.2 Description of approach to Our climate strategy UBS SR 2019 / 54–63 FN-CB-550a.2 incorporation of results of mandatory Stress testing UBS AR 2019 / 116–117 and voluntary stress tests into capital Further key aspects of credit risk models UBS AR 2019 / 133–135 adequacy planning, long-term corporate strategy, and other business activities Regulation and supervision UBS AR 2019 / 49–53 Asset Management & Custody Activities FN-AC-270a.2 Total amount of monetary losses as a Note 21 Provisions and contingent liabilities UBS AR 2019 / 387–394 result of legal proceedings associated with marketing and communication of financial product-related information to new and returning customers FN-AC-270a.3 Description of approach to informing Suitability UBS SR 2019 / 29–30 customers about products and services Operational risk UBS AR 2019 / 153–155 FN-AC-410a.1 Amount of assets under management, Our focus on ESG UBS SR 2019 / 31–33 by asset class, that employ (1) Driving change in finance UBS SR 2019 / 70–74 integration of environmental, social and governance (ESG) issues, (2) sustainability-themed investing, and (3) screening FN-AC-410a.2 Description of approach to Global Wealth Management UBS SR 2019 / 11–13 incorporation of environmental, social Society UBS SR 2019 / 46–48 and governance (ESG) factors in Our climate strategy UBS SR 2019 / 54–63 investment and/or wealth management processes and strategies Our focus on ESG UBS SR 2019 / 31–33 Driving change in finance UBS SR 2019 / 70–74 UBS in society constitutional document UBS SR 2019 / 117–119 162 SASB Code Accounting Metric Reference Page FN-AC-410a.3 Description of proxy voting and investee Protecting our clients' assets UBS SR 2019 / 58–59 engagement policies and procedures Stewardship / voting rights UBS SR 2019 / 71 Key sustainability investing products and services UBS SR 2019 / 74 FN-AC-550a.2 Description of approach to UBS AM defines Liquidity risk as the risk that a fund incorporation of liquidity risk cannot meet client redemption requests at current prices management programs into portfolio while fulfilling ongoing obligations to remaining strategy and redemption risk investors in line with the fund's stated investment management objective, strategy and policies. UBS AM operates a Liquidity Risk Framework in line with our fiduciary duty towards investors, which:  Considers liquidity risk management at product design / fund setup;  Requires ongoing liquidity monitoring; and  Includes escalation protocols and governance for management of liquidity risk events FN-AC-550a.3 Total exposure to securities financing Traded products UBS AR 2019 / 125–126 transactions Leverage ratio denominator UBS AR 2019 / 188–189 FN-AC-550a.4 Net exposure to written credit Note 11 Derivative instruments UBS AR 2019 / 371–376 derivatives FN-AC-000.A (1) Total registered and Note 36 Invested assets and net new money UBS AR 2019 / 475 (2) total unregistered assets under Global Wealth Management UBS AR 2019 / 85–87 management (AUM) Asset Management UBS AR 2019 / 93–96 FN-AC-000.B Total assets under custody and Note 36 Invested assets and net new money UBS AR 2019 / 475 supervision Global Wealth Management UBS AR 2019 / 85–87 Asset Management UBS AR 2019 / 93–96 Investment Banking & Brokerage FN-IB-410a.1 Revenue from (1) underwriting, (2) Our focus on ESG UBS SR 2019 / 31–33 advisory, and (3) securitization Driving change in finance UBS SR 2019 / 70–74 transactions incorporating integration of Environmental and social risk policy framework UBS SR 2019 / 120–126 environmental, social, and governance (ESG) factors, by industry (Note: UBS applies an environmental and social risk framework to ALL transactions, products, services and activities such as lending, capital raising, advisory services or investments that involve a party associated with environmentally or socially sensitive activities. ) FN-IB-410a.2 (1) Number and (2) total value of Our focus on ESG UBS SR 2019 / 31–33 investments and loans incorporating Driving change in finance UBS SR 2019 / 70–74 integration of environmental, social, and Environmental and social risk policy framework UBS SR 2019 / 120–126 governance (ESG) factors, by industry (Note: UBS applies an environmental and social risk framework to ALL transactions, products, services and activities such as lending, capital raising, advisory services or investments that involve a party associated with environmentally or socially sensitive activities. ) FN-IB-410a.3 Description of approach to Society UBS SR 2019 / 46–48 incorporation of environmental, social, Our climate strategy UBS SR 2019 / 54–63 and governance (ESG) factors in Our focus on ESG UBS SR 2019 / 31–33 investment banking and brokerage activities Driving change in finance UBS SR 2019 / 70–74 UBS in society constitutional document UBS SR 2019 / 117–119 Environmental and social risk policy framework UBS SR 2019 / 120–126 FN-IB-510b.3 Total amount of monetary losses as a Note 21 Provisions and contingent liabilities UBS AR 2019 / 387–394 result of legal proceedings associated with professional integrity, including duty of care 163 Appendix 5 – Sustainability Accounting Standards Board index SASB Code Accounting Metric Reference Page FN-IB-510b.4 Description of approach to ensuring Employees UBS SR 2019 / 35–37 professional integrity, including duty of Key policies and guidelines UBS SR 2019 / 51–52 care Sustainable performance and compensation UBS SR 2019 / 64–65 Sustainability-related training and raising awareness UBS SR 2019 / 64 Our Code of Conduct and Ethics UBS SR 2019 / 113–116 Charter of the Corporate Culture and Responsibility UBS SR 2019 / 112 Committee Risk categories UBS AR 2019 / 107 Risk principles and risk culture UBS AR 2019 / 112 Operational risk UBS AR 2019 / 153–155 Compensation framework for employees other than GEB UBS AR 2019 / 257 members FN-IB-550b.1 Percentage of total remuneration that is Sustainable performance and compensation UBS SR 2019 / 64–65 variable for Material Risk Takers (MRTs) Compensation UBS AR 2019 / 242–288 FN-IB-550b.2 Percentage of variable remuneration of Regulated staff UBS AR 2019 / 277–278 Material Risk Takers (MRTs) to which 2019 performance award pool and expenses UBS AR 2019 / 279–280 malus or clawback provisions were applied FN-IB-550b.3 Discussion of policies around Note 24 Fair value measurement UBS AR 2019 / 410–429 supervision, control and validation of Regulated staff UBS AR 2019 / 277–278 traders’ pricing of Level 3 assets and liabilities FN-IB-000.A (1) Number and (2) value of (a) Investment Bank UBS AR 2019 / 97–100 underwriting, (b) advisory, and (c) securitization transactions Commercial banks FN-CB-230a.2 Description of approach to identifying Our clients and what matters most to them UBS SR 2019 / 26–27 and addressing data security risks Operational risks affect our business UBS AR 2019 / 67–68 Top and emerging risks UBS AR 2019 / 108 Operational risk UBS AR 2019 / 153–155 FN-CB-240a.1 (1) Number and (2) amount of loans Personal & Corporate Banking UBS AR 2019 / 88–92 outstanding qualified to programs Personal & Corporate Banking UBS AR 2019 / 122 designed to promote small business and Driving change in communities UBS SR 2019 / 98–102 community development FN-CB-240a.4 Number of participants in financial Financial literacy UBS SR 2019 / 134 literacy initiatives for unbanked, underbanked, or underserved customers FN-CB-410a.1 Commercial and industrial credit Credit risk UBS AR 2019 / 119–137 exposure, by industry Loans and advances to banks and customers by industry UBS AR 2019 / 733–734 Climate strategy UBS SR 2019 / 54–63 Also see Pillar III Disclosure at Pillar III Report https://www.ubs.com/global/en/investorrelations/financial-information/pillar-3-disclosures.html FN-CB-410a.2 Description of approach to Our climate strategy UBS SR 2019 / 54–63 incorporation of environmental, social, Environmental and social risk policy framework UBS SR 2019 / 120–126 and governance (ESG) factors in credit analysis FN-CB-000.A (1) Number and (2) value of checking Personal & Corporate Banking UBS AR 2019 / 24–25 and savings accounts by segment: (a) Personal & Corporate Banking UBS AR 2019 / 88–92 personal and (b) small business FN-CB-000.B (1) Number and (2) value of loans by Personal & Corporate Banking UBS AR 2019 / 88–92 segment: (a) personal, (b) small Personal & Corporate Banking UBS AR 2019 / 122 business, and (c) corporate 164 Risk evaluation In pursuance of the requirements of the German law and we may be unable to retain and attract qualified employees. implementing the EU directive 2014/95 (on non-financial The amount and structure of our employee compensation is disclosures, CSR-Richtlinie-Umsetzungsgesetz / CSR-RUG) this affected not only by our business results but also by competitive section includes an evaluation of the risks that have a high factors and regulatory considerations. In recent years, in probability of potential negative impacts upon the aspects response to the demands of various stakeholders, including covered by said law. regulatory authorities and shareholders, and in order to better align the interests of our staff with other stakeholders, we have Combating money laundering and terrorist financing has been a increased average deferral periods for stock awards, expanded major focus of government policies relating to financial forfeiture provisions and, to a more limited extent, introduced institutions in recent years. The US Bank Secrecy Act and other clawback provisions for certain awards linked to business laws and regulations require the maintenance of effective performance. We have also introduced individual caps on the policies, procedures and controls to detect, prevent and report proportion of fixed to variable pay for the Group Executive money laundering and terrorist financing, and to verify the Board (GEB) members, as well as certain other employees. identity of our clients. Failure to maintain and implement Constraints on the amount or structure of employee adequate programs to prevent money laundering and terrorist compensation, higher levels of deferral, performance conditions financing could result in significant legal and reputation risk. In and other circumstances triggering the forfeiture of unvested addition, we are subject to laws and regulations, in jurisdictions awards may adversely affect our ability to retain and attract key in which we operate, prohibiting corrupt or illegal payments to employees. The loss of key staff and the inability to attract government officials and others, including the US Foreign qualified replacements could seriously compromise our ability to Corrupt Practices Act and the UK Bribery Act. We maintain execute our strategy and to successfully improve our operating policies, procedures and internal controls intended to comply and control environment, and could affect our business with those regulations. performance. The financial services industry is characterized by intense  Refer to the “Risk factors” and Regulation and supervision competition, continuous innovation, restrictive, detailed, and sections of UBS's Annual Report 2019 for more information sometimes fragmented regulation and ongoing consolidation, 165 Appendix 6 – EU Non-financial disclosures index Non-financial disclosures in accordance with German law implementing the EU directive 2014/95 This GRI Document also includes our firm's disclosures of non-financial information required by German law implementing the EU directive 2014/95 (CSR-Richtlinie-Umsetzungsgesetz / CSR-RUG). These disclosures can be found in the sections and the pages indicated below. Due to the differing materiality requirements of the GRI Standards and of CSR-RUG the material topics listed in the CSR-RUG index are therefore limited to the matters ( Belange ) addressed by CSR-RUG. Section in Sustainability Report 2019 Page(s) About this report (including framework) About this Sustainability Report 2 Description of the business model Our strategy, business model and environment 7–50 Material risks Risk evaluation 165 Non-financial aspects Section in Sustainability Report 2019 Page(s) Broad thematic issues affecting all Our focus on ESG 31–33 nonfinancial aspects Our governance and principles 51–53 Sustainable performance and compensation 64–65 Sustainable investments 70–71 Sustainability-related training and raising awareness 64 UBS sustainability objectives and achievements 2019 and sustainability objectives 2020 135–142 Environmental and human rights matters Society 46–48 Stakeholder relations (additional information): Vendors 50 (Material topics: Climate action; Environment and human rights 78 Environmental and social risk management; Sustainable investing) Our climate strategy – taking action towards a low-carbon future 54–63 Management of environmental and social risks 79 Responsible supply chain management 93 In-house environmental management 82–92 Social and employee matters Society 46–48 Employees 35–45 (Working culture and environment; Talent Sustainable performance and compensation 64–65 management; Compensation; Diversity and inclusion; Community investing) Driving change in communities 98–102 Anti-corruption and bribery matters Combating financial crime 94 (Combating financial crime as sub-topic of Regulatory compliance) 166 UBS Group AG P.O. Box CH-8098 Zurich www.ubs.com
