SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2020 CONTENTS CEO Message 1 ANHAM At A Glance 5 Strategy, Purpose & SDG Update 6 Labour Rights 10 People & Skills Development 14 Responsible Business 18 Resource Management 23 UN Global Compact CoP 29 ANHAM UN SDG Policies 41 We at ANHAM wish all of you continued good health in these very trying times of a COVID-19 reality. Our business models have recently been dramatically changed and they may be that way for a prolonged period. These changes present daily challenges that can help fuel our imaginations and help us develop more efficient methods for accomplishing our missions. Please stay safe and let’s do our part to help end this challenge as quickly as possible and return to our best selves once more. We are re-committed to the UN Global Compact and the Ten Principles, and to delivering the highest level of service, while taking an active role in supporting the community, managing resources carefully, and reducing waste. Looking to the future at ANHAM we have the opportunity to enhance the wellbeing of thousands of people and deliver services that make our customers, employees, and local communities lives a little easier. We also recognize the importance of building bridges between our sub-contractors and the local communities through initiatives that stimulate long-term development. Investments in, for example, fruit and vegetable production, training centers, and transport infrastructure all allow local communities to prosper long beyond the life-cycle of our contract in the Host Nation. I would like to thank each and every one of ANHAM’s employees for their efforts during 2019, and I look forward to doing even more together in the years ahead. JAY WARD Chief Executive Officer 1 ABOUT THIS REPORT OUR COMMITMENT Corporate Sustainability has had many monikers in the past, but the concept has stayed true to its core belief, that if you conduct business in a way that shows respect for people and the environment these principles will provide benefits for your company, so it is good to know these are the principles that have characterized ANHAM’s approach since our start, whether consciously or not, we have adhered to these principles in spirit and deed. In late 2019, we began to turn these principles into a structured sustainability strategy and looked to establish a strong foundation for the years to come. In 2019, we also strengthened our commitment to the United Nations Global Compact (UNGC) focusing on the three major areas of influence for ANHAM in Afghanistan; Equity (people), Economic (poverty), and Environment (resources). We’ll incorporate the various United Nations Sustainable Development Goals (UNSDG’s) that we have chosen to focus on for 2020 and the beyond. These are SDG Goal #1 – No Poverty, Goal #2 – No Hunger, Goal #4 – Quality Education, Goal #5 – Gender Equality, Goal #8 Decent Work and Economic Growth, and Goal #12 Responsible Consumption & Production. Besides further integrating sustainability into our business strategy in 2020, we will put considerable time and effort into measuring our baseline and beginning the process of setting our sustainability targets for 2020 and the future against those data points from 2019. ANHAM supports the Sustainable Development Goals 2 MEASURING OUR BASELINE We have taken it upon ourselves to utilize the data points from our most recent CY of 2019. With these baseline numbers we will be able to establish the sustainability targets and goals for CY 2020 beyond. This report details the progress made in SDG areas listed above, and highlights some of the important initiatives that will be launched during the year, and reports on other, longer-term developments. In addition, we conducted a broad employee survey to help map our current status RECOMMITMENT TO THE and identify any concerns. The results UN GLOBAL COMPACT were encouraging overall, We will also ANHAM is one of the major international consurvey our key suppliers and sub-contractracting companies operating in the Middle East, tors in Afghanistan and Dubai to learn Afghanistan and North African Region, and we more about their sustainability and compliare committed to the UN Global Compact. ance efforts, and their adherence to the standards we believe in. We believe that legal and ethical business practices, including the preservation of Human In the area of People & Skills DevelopRights, form the core of ANHAM’s values and ment, one particularly successful initiative mission. Our goal is to be a market leader, while was a push to enroll as many people in not compromising our commitment to our core the OSHA Safety Professional Course. values and our reputation. This was not only popular with our staff, but also proved beneficial to our OccupaANHAM's Code of Business Conduct and Ethics tional Safety, as we have so many more addresses company policy relating to Human aware individuals that are looking out for Rights and the prevention of potential abuses. the well-being of our workforce, which is a The Code applies to all ANHAM officers, force multiplier for us on the ground. employees, agents, representatives and consultants working for, or on behalf of, ANHAM or any of its subsidiaries. The specific topics covered in the Code include, but are not limited to, non-retaliation, commitment to the end of human trafficking, non-discrimination, and protections from harassment. ANHAM takes its commitment to the values stated in the Universal Declaration of Human Rights very seriously, and through our Code of Conduct and mandatory annual training, ensure that all employees, agents, representatives and consultants working for, or on behalf of, ANHAM or any of its subsidiaries, abide by the same. 3 ANTI-CORRUPTION LABOUR RIGHTS ANHAM has a very robust Anti-Corruption ANHAM is committed to recruiting, hiring, policy which includes extensive training, developing and promoting employees internal and external audits and investigawithout discrimination based on race, tions, and an easy-access reporting color, sex, age, national origin, religion, system. ANHAM firmly stands behind all disability, genetic information, or veteran relevant U.S. and international law constatus. The Company believes diversity cerning anti-corruption measures, includstrengthens its work force and enhances ing but not limited to the UN Convention its competitiveness. ANHAM expects its Against Corruption. employees to treat each other with respect and to learn to appreciate other backgrounds and cultures. ENVIRONMENTAL POLICY ANHAM's written Environmental Policy Statement Provides that we believe that businesses are responsible for achieving a good environmental practice and operating in a sustainable manner. We are therefore committed to reducing our environmental impact and continually improving our environmental performance as an integral and fundamental part of our business strategy and operating methods. It is our priority to encourage our customers, suppliers and all business associates to do the same. Not only is this sound commercial sense for all; it is also a matter of delivering on our duty of care towards future generations. 4 ANHAM AT A GLANCE 2004 WE ARE ANHAM We are a leading logistic and supply chain company that are experts at procurement, transport, storage FOUNDED and distribution of subsistence and supplies in support of humanitarian, government and commercial customers. 380 STAFF AS OF DECEMBER 2019 STATEMENT OF CONTINUED SUPPORT FOR THE GLOBAL COMPACT ANHAM FZCO became a signatory of the United Nations Global Compact (UNGC) in 2013. The Ten 3 MAIN SERVICE CHANNELS Principles closely reflected our own philosophy, standards, and values, and we remain true to these values today. In 2020, we will deepen our commitment from the Signatory to the Participant level. LOGISTICS We look forward to participating in the UNGC Leaders’ Week at the UN in New York. We look to also participate in the UNGC’s meetings, workshops, and online learning Academy Sessions. We look forward to becoming a more active and committed member PROCUREMENT of the UNGC Local Network in Afghanistan. PRIME VENDOR 5 STRATEGY, PURPOSE & SDG UPDATE ESTABLISHING A BASELINE setting measurable targets utilizing the In October 2019, we reassessed our data points from our 2019 operations. approach to sustainability with a view to In 2020, we will track our improvements integrating our strategy with the compaagainst our 2019 data points and monitor ny’s core business activities and aligning our progress. ourselves with the UN’s Sustainable Development Goals (SDG’s). We Our goal is to make sustainability a natural narrowed down our sustainability priorities part of everything we do. Once our to six categories: #1-Poverty, #2-Hunger, strategy targets are clearly communicated #4-Education, Gender Equality, #5 Gender to all parties, it will be our goal to have our Equality, #8-Decent Work & Economic ANHAM staff to think about the Growth, #12-Responsible Consumption environmental and social, as well as the and Production. It has become clear that, financial, impacts of their decisions. The as a prerequisite to increasing the positive establishment of pilot projects in 2020 will impacts and diminishing the negative give multiple ANHAM stakeholders a impacts of our operations, we would need chance to engage with us in an open to set a clear set of targets dialogue and to establish sustainability as a collective investment for ANHAM and By the end of 2020 we will start to bring our stakeholders. our new sustainability strategy to life. We will start by establishing a baseline within the six focus areas and we will begin 6 ANHAM’s FOCUS AREA EQUITY ECONOMIC ENVIROMENT MANAGEMENT APPROACH ANHAM’S SUSTAINABILITY KPI’s We have assessed the need for working We present our first sustainability groups within each of our focus areas. A measures and targets in subsequent working group will be formed for each of sections of this report for the year 2019 the topics: Poverty, Hunger, Education, that are being used as baseline targets for Gender Equality, and Economic the 2020 report. In the coming years, we Development. This will ensure that a will be adding other performance diverse set of viewpoints are taken into measures and goals, and we look forward consideration when making to presenting more details on the recommendations on how to improve a initiatives and internal processes we’ve specific area of focus. devised to achieve them. To ensure diverse viewpoints are ANHAM’S Initial sustainability KPIs have considered, all 6 focus area groups will been set with long-term investment in include people from across ANHAM’s mind, requiring continual evaluation, operational locations, with varying levels monitoring and expansion as we engage of seniority and experience from different more deeply and broadly with all our departments. stakeholders over time. Our interest and willingness to invest in our employees, Initially, each working group will be tasked local communities, and local vendors will with setting the agenda for work to be continue to power progress for years to carried out in its assigned area. They will come. be responsible for suggestions on how to implement and monitor the initiatives, as In 2019 ANHAM deployed a new well as having input for the setting of employee performance review format — a ANHAM’s sustainability targets for 2021 new platform for reviewing company, and beyond. department, and employee performance. The next step is for KPIs to be set for Sustainability is firmly embedded in this each area of focus. Actions to deliver them system, and relevant measures will be will be driven by the relevant Group considered when formulating KPIs for Leader. departments and individual employees over the coming months. 7 HOW WE WORK WITH THE SDG’s SDG OUTLOOK As part of reassessing our approach to ANHAM has chosen to focus on those sustainability in 2020, we have mapped community and individual needs and data from 2019 activities against the SDGs. requirements for the 2020 Sustainability Although we will constantly re-evaluate our Report. Our commitment to our Community approach, the table to the right list the Stakeholders has never been stronger and targets or goals and gives an example of we will continue to pursue the opportunities how ANHAM can be impactful in the given to contribute to the greater good of the area. It also shows how ANHAM can: communities we operate within. Be Sustainability Leaders ANHAM’S initial sustainability KPIs have With SDG’s 1, 4, and 8 focus especially on been set in the knowledge that this is a combating poverty through higher labour long-term investment requiring continual numbers, increased commitment to evaluation, monitoring, and expansion as we educational opportunities for the LN engage more deeply and broadly with all our workers and community children while stakeholders over time. Our keen interest increasing economic independence through and willingness to invest will continue to the various programs established for local power progress for years to come. vendors. The continual utilization of the Afghan First Create Positive Direct Or Indirect Impact LMR Fresh Fruits and Vegetable (FFV) Two targets within SDGs 2 and 5 guide our program is one of the most progressive of efforts to distribute food and parcels and the sustainable programs that stimulate attempt to increase the number of women income throughout the supply chain and is in the workforce. surely leading to a sustainable economy of scale for the future. Mitigate Our Negative Impacts Working with SDG 8 we will try to increase ANHAM is proud to be deeply involved and use our local farmers for FF&V and use the help in the program's success. Local Sub-cons and vendors for LMR and supplies. With SDG #6 Help construct freshwater wells in the host nation communities and SDG #12 reduce our carbon footprint. 8 RELEVANT TARGETS OPPORTUNITY TO BE CREATE POSITIVE SUSTAINABILITY LEADERS DIRECT/INDIRECT IMPACT 1.1 Continue to employ local nationals 2.1 Increase the number of Eid and Food and work on incorporating female staff Parcels distributed in 2020-2021 4.1 Increase by 5% LN staff that partici5.1 Increase by end of 2020 the number of pates in Mindflash Training female staff for OCN employees by 15% 8.2 Increase the usage of the LFFV 5.2 Increase the number of LN female staff by program through the Afghan First Initiative 50% by end of 2020 5.3 Increase the number of refurbished Schools and specifically All-Girls Schools by 2020 RESPONSIBILITY TO MITIGATE POTENTIAL NEGATIVE IMPACT 6.1 Increase the digging of freshwater wells by 10% in 2020-2021 8.1 Continue to increase the percentage of local purchases as much as possible to support the local economy 8.3 Continue to increase of the LFF&V program usage through DLA catalogue 12.1 Reduce the number of Trucks/Container missions by increasing cube volume and increasing case per pallet counts 9 LABOUR RIGHTS At ANHAM, we firmly believe that all our employees have the right to decent work in a safe and secure environment. This belief is enshrined in our Code of Conduct and Company Policies, which reflect our stand against harassment, discrimination and human trafficking, and our zero tolerance of bribery and corruption. All policy documents relating to employees and their rights are made available to staff in the primary working languages of the countries where we operate. To ensure that everyone is clear about the behavioral standards we expect of them during their time with us, we run regular awareness-raising workshops and training courses to explain our company policies. We also encourage people to raise concerns or report any malpractice they observe using our anonymous whistle blower channel. 10 EMPLOYEE SURVEY In April 2020, we conducted a large-scale address the challenges faced by specific groups employee survey to help map current status and in specific places. We will strive to conduct an identify any labour-related subjects that require employee survey annually in order to measure more focused attention. The survey included our progress over time. For our 2021 survey, we questions about policy knowledge, awareness of continue to invest in a tailormade employee policy violations, and how comfortable survey tool created by external specialists. The employees are about reporting violations, new tool gives us more detailed data to work discrimination, and harassment. with and will therefore provide a more solid foundation upon which to build remedial All AMHAM’s permanent staff were asked to measures. complete the survey, which they could do anonymously online. Our staff welcomed the chance to give feedback and shared lots of valuable insights that we are now using as a basis for our future HR, sustainability, and compliance efforts. The results of the survey showed that ANHAM employees generally understand our company policies well, and the majority feel they have had adequate opportunity to ask questions about them. However, it became clear that not everyone knows how to report a policy concern or violation, or what is classified as a policy violation and what isn’t. This means we need to communicate more clearly on our reporting processes. It could also explain why we received very few reports that required action through our independent whistleblower channel in 2019. We are therefore planning further training on the reporting process and the use of our whistle blower channel in 2020. The survey also indicated that some of our employees experience discrimination and harassment in the workplace, in spite of our best efforts and intentions. We are now taking actions to remedy this situation, beginning with a study to verify the number of people affected and to deepen our understanding of the situation. The fact that survey data are filterable by location means we can target our efforts to 11 SUPPLY CHAIN EFFORTS POLICY TRAINING In 2020-2021, we will carry-out a smaller-scale Our regular company-wide policy training survey with some of our key strategic suppliers continued throughout 2019, with extra effort to in Afghanistan and Dubai, where ANHAM’s ensure local staff were included. PMO operational HQ is located. We want to know more about our supplier's sustainability In the warzone of Afghanistan, which is one of and compliance efforts. our most challenging locations from a travel and communications perspective, a dedicated HR Through this exercise we will hope to learn how resource from ANHAM’s office in Virginia many of our suppliers have a sustainability travelled around to all the ANHAM work strategy in place. If they have a plan in place, do locations world-wide and conducted training and they produce an official report or do they even sensing sessions for our staff. In addition, we document the details of their policies. hired bilingual HR staff in several of our countries of operation to assist with matters We will hope to learn if they have good relating to local staff training and waste-management practices and have communication. anti-bribery and corruption policies. All of them must have policies against slavery, human trafficking, and child forced labour. We will help EMPLOYMENT OF WOMEN encourage them to reduce their environmental One very particular challenge we face at impact. ANHAM is balancing the gender split among our employees working the Prime Vendor Program This exercise will be on a small scale, but it in Afghanistan. In 2019, just over 17% of our should give us a reasonably good overall workforce in Afghanistan are female. understanding of our suppliers’ current efforts Given the cultures we work in and the fact that and will guide the way we engage with them in much of our work takes place in a warzone, this the future. is not too surprising. Indeed, we accept that ANHAM is unlikely to ever achieve gender In 2020-2021, we plan to sign up as many parity. strategic suppliers as possible to our new ANHAM Supplier Code of Conduct. We will also What matters is that we continuously look for request more detailed documentation of their opportunities to address the imbalance by efforts on social responsibility, environmental recruiting women and implementing policies that practices and key policies such as Anti-Bribery level the playing field for female employees. and Corruption, Anti-Slavery and Human Increasing the number of women employed Trafficking and Child Forced Labour. In addition, across the company is one of our targets for we will encourage them to put more resources 2020 and beyond. into measuring and reporting progress. ANHAM has at this time just over 5% of supervisory positions held by females. In 2020 and into 2021 we look to increase those numbers, if all criteria are met at the time of a position opening. We will look at a wider range of CV when selecting candidates for hiring effectively widening the pool of candidates. We currently have Female Managers in departments of Inventory, Claims, and ISO, but we must do more and get female managers into the operational departments lacking female representation. 12 SETTING TARGETS FOR LABOUR RIGHTS CONNECTION WITH THE SDGS ANHAM offers employment within a framework of legal, health and safety provisions that aligns with international best practice. All our employees are made aware of their rights, and mechanisms are in place to ensure The fact that ANHAM offers decent and equal that shortcomings can be reported anonymously employment terms to all makes a direct impact and dealt with effectively. on SDG 8 — Decent Work and Economic Growth, and specifically to target 8.4, Protect Although our influence beyond ANHAM’s own labour rights and promote safe and secure operations usually limited, we believe that by working environments for all workers. adhering to best practices and engaging with community leaders in a practical, non-political way. We can contribute to broader improvements in labour Rights in the countries and communities The fact that ANHAM offers decent and equal where we operate. employment terms to all makes a direct impact on SDG 8 — Decent Work and Economic We are excited by the prospect of continued Growth, and specifically to target 8.4, Protect growth in existing markets and expansion into labour rights and promote safe and secure new ones, not least because it gives us an working environments for all workers. opportunity to improve on our gender ratio. As mentioned above, this is not always easy due to the regions we work in and the nature of our business. Women are generally under-represented in formal employment in the countries where we operate, especially within Our regular internal training on company our industry. policies as well as our supply chain engagement ensure that ANHAM employees and suppliers Our three-year target is to increase the understand the problem of modern slavery and percentage of women in ANHAM’s workforce human trafficking, contributing to SDG 8 — from 5% in 2019 to 8% in three years from Decent Work and Economic Growth, and 2020-2022. specifically to target 8.6 — Eradicate forced labour, end modern slavery and human We are confident that this ambitious target can trafficking. be achieved through a variety of actions, starting with hiring mechanisms that specifically Our zero-tolerance of bribery and corruption supports progress towards SDG 4 – Quality Education, specifically target 4.5 — Reduce corruption and bribery in all their forms. 13 PEOPLE & SKILLS DEVELOPMENT Investing in the skills and development of THE STORY BEHIND OUR LOCAL those who work with and for us is not just STAFF RATIO good for our business. It also encourages At ANHAM, our aim is to maintain a high spending on the local economy and has a ratio of local to international staff. This significant, positive impact on the aligns with our overall desire to be a communities in which we work. responsible corporate citizen and, more specifically, with our ambition to support Our goal has always been to recruit and local communities. From the outset, we develop local people whenever this is recognized the value of hiring and practical and economically viable. developing local talent. Over the past 7 years in Afghanistan, we have steadily built Over the years, we have identified up the workforce and maintained very high opportunities to improve some of our ratio for LN’s. operational processes and set about developing training programs in key areas However, the diverse nature of our work using the platforms Skillsoft and Mindflash. does influence who we can hire and when. For example, projects requiring unskilled While we offer development opportunities to labor can lead to an increase in the ratio of our permanent, international employees, we LN to International Staff. Whereas a are going to focus our People & Skills security-related project requiring skilled Development efforts on our local staff as labor would lead to an increase in this is where we see the largest scope for International hires. On average, we upskilling. employed 74% or higher local staff in 2019. This is likely to change in 2020 (Current We also invest in local suppliers, since this 68%) as the new health issues have brings economic prosperity and stability and caused all companies to re-evaluate their makes a real difference to local hiring practices. ANHAM will continue to be communities. It’s a true win-win since local a leader in local hiring and training for the sourcing often also lowers our costs and skilled and unskilled local labor pool. We reduces our carbon footprint. relish the challenge of increasing the knowledge and capacity of our great Local Workforce in the coming years. 14 OPPORTUNITIES FOR PROMOTION One of the main reasons for training international and local staff is that it opens opportunities for promotion. In 2019, 3% of International and 10% of our LN workforce were promoted to more senior positions. We would like to see more local staff being promoted. We have therefore set an ambitious target to place 13% of our local workforce into more senior positions over the next three years of 2020, 2021 & 2022. Since many of our local employees join us as unskilled, preparing them for higher positions is a big commitment involving significant time and effort on all sides toward On-Job-Training (OJT) opportunities. To make this goal a reality, we will rigorously assess the skills levels of our existing local workforce in order to tap into potentially underused resources. In addition, we will encourage employees who have upgraded their skills through the ANHAM training program. 15 FIGHTING POVERTY WITH QUALITY JOBS AND LEARNED SKILLS THROUGH ON-THE-JOB (OJT) PROGRAMS ANHAM has always strived to maintain a high percentage of Local National workers employed as part of the attempt to bring fiscal prosperity and to try to eliminate SDG Goal #1 No Poverty to Host Nation communities we operate within. ANHAM has maintained over CY 2019 a 74% ratio of LN workforce, and in 2020 we currently are running at 68% due to the operational climate in the world at this time. Annually ANHAM injects over $2.2million dollars in paid LN salaries into the local host nation communities in Afghanistan that we operate in. This influx of money has helped elevate the local Host Nation economies and combated the worst of enemies, hunger at the root cause – Poverty. ANHAM LN Supervisory Staff averaged 10% in 2019, and we currently have 7% of the LN Staff are in Supervisory or Managerial positions in 2020. We are looking at other ways to develop the LN workforce and will strive to increase our LN Supervisory workforce over the coming years.. 16 DEVELOPING SUPPLIERS At ANHAM we have long understood the These manufacturers serve the sustainability advantages of local sourcing. It allows us to matrix very well and will provide a rich source of secure the supply of goods at an advantageous employment and revenue for all the local price and with low carbon impact. It helps our communities to prosper in the long term and we suppliers grow their businesses, based on the at ANHAM take great pride in our part to help security of a long-term relationship with ANHAM. these local businesses thrive. For all these reasons, whenever there is an opportunity to buy locally, we do. CONNECTION WITH THE SDGS ANHAM has a unique situation in Afghanistan, through our Prime Vendor program, which allows us to purchase perishable food product in support of the US Military throughout the Our ethical hiring practices ensures a noticeable operational theater of Afghanistan. impact within the Host Nation community we support – for Goal #1 – No Poverty – that comes The AFGHAN-FIRST initiative encourages the in the form of over $2.2 million dollars payroll local purchase of over $18m dollars annually in annually injected into the local economy. Fresh Fruits and Vegetables (FF&V) from local community Farm Combines which supplement the International FF&V products brought in from the UAE. In addition, the procurement of Fresh Bread products are procured from a local bakery Our policy of local sourcing combined with (Mezzan), which is co-located within the support for local suppliers contributes to SDG 8 ANHAM Warehouse complex. This operation — Decent Work and Economic Growth, and accounts for over $3m in revenue annually. The specifically to target 8.1 — Encourage 2% quality of the bakery products is second to none increase in local FF&V items in our FF&V and will help sustain a viable industry long after procurement program. ANHAM’s contract with the US Military is fulfilled. The largest contributor to the local Afghan economy within the AFGHAN-FIRST initiative LMR Program is the local purchase of Bottled Our efforts to increase the number of LN Water (BTW), Canned Soda, UHT Juices, and workers participating in OJT opportunities Bagged Wet Ice from three separate Afghan contribute to SDG 4 — Quality Education – and manufacturers. 4.3 – an increase of 10% LN OJT Participation in 2020-2021. They provide world class products at three ISO Certified bottling plants and generate over $32m dollars in revenue for the local Afghan economy. These are branded plants (Coke, Pepsi, etc…) that have started to supply their products country wide to civilian customers and to export their Our efforts to increase the number of people brands out to other countries. with useful skills contribute to SDG 5 — Gender Equality and specifically to target 5.1 Increase the number women supervisors by 3% in 2020-2021. 17 RESPONSIBLE BUSINESS ANHAM has always supported the local that address those populations that are less communities regardless of where our activifortunate, but that have just as great a need ties may take us. We believe in giving back for assistance than our workforce. Food to the communities through the provision of Parcels, EID donations, and supplying the good paying jobs that can help combat local orphanages are just some of the ways poverty, hunger, and gender inequality at we help to address hunger within the comthe community level, as well as contribute munity that we support. millions of dollars to the Host Nation’s economy. One of the most difficult SDG’s Goal to realize is Goal #5 Gender Equality – due We accomplish our goals through different to the cultural roadblocks that we encounmeans, but all aim to combat three SDG’s: ter within the communities that we support. Goal #2 No Poverty – through the ethical ANHAM is making in-roads into this most hiring practices utilized to compile a condifficult of issues, as we assist in bringing tractual workforce, we offer good paying education to the younger population be, jobs that attack at the root-cause of modthey male or female. ern-day poverty: Unemployment. Within our own staff ranks we have made a One of our most important SDG’s is Goal commitment to promote gender equality in #2 No Hunger – ANHAM addition to the all areas of our operations. premium salaries for our LN workers contributes to community outreach programs 18 THE CONSTANT FIGHT AGAINST THE RELENTLESS ENEMY ANHAM continues its Community Program and we also supply ANHAM meals to the Bagram Mosque. These are served at sundown for those attending to break the fast during Ramadan. We supply on average 300 cooked meals each evening for the first 4 nights of Ramadan and same for the last 4 nights. We also will be delivering on average 600 food parcels to the poorest villages just prior to the Eid celebration. ANHAM also receives very generous donations of food products from our sub-contractors to add to our Community Program. These donations consist of dry food packages consisting of Bags of Flour, Rice, Tea, Sugar and Cans of Cooking Oil. The various Schools and Orphanages are the beneficiaries of our stakeholder's kind hearts and generosity and we can’t thank them enough for their assistance with this worthwhile program. Apart from extremely busy operations to deliver double orders to our customer in preparation for the Eid Holiday, our International staff make a huge effort to continue with our Community Outreach Program. ANHAM purchased 1K food parcels for the poorest families in the surrounding area, each parcel contained various dry goods that were delivered directly to the most needy in the community. We will continue meet SDG’s Goal #2 – Zero Hunger – and distribute these packages throughout our local community and strive to increase the average by 10% up to average of 1100 parcels in the 2021. 19 LOCAL AND INTERNATIONAL STAFF TRAINREFURBISHMENT OF OVER TEN (10) ING PROGRAMS MINDFLASH AND LOCAL AFGHANISTAN SCHOOLS FOR ALL SKILLSOFT AGES OF STUDENTS TO INCLUDE AN Our Mindflash Training Program offers a wide ALL-GIRLS SCHOOL. variety of continuing education courses that our ANHAM has had a long history of contributing to International and LN employees are enrolled in the local communities wherever we are doing throughout the year. There are mandatory business. In Afghanistan, this has taken a very technical and self-improvement courses that positive turn and we have been able to help help enhance our contractual compliances and refurbish damaged or abandoned schoolhouses we have selected courses that employees can and help them to reopen once again. select for study at their own pace. These range from computer skills to language courses for We have refurbished Orphanages as well as example. There is also a wide range of ManageRefugee Camps and have been recognized by ment Courses for our International and Expat the Local and Central Afghanistan Government Supervisors and Managers. for our efforts 20 CONTINUOUS SUPPORT FOR GENDER EQUALITY IN LOCAL EDUCATION FACILITIES ANHAM continues its Community Outreach Program in Afghanistan, administered from our distribution facility in Bagram in conjunction with the Offices of the Governors of Bagram District and Parwan Province. ANHAM supports the local Education Department by funding refurbishment of schools in the local district, to include plastering, painting, replacing windows and doors and generally making the school buildings a comfortable environment for the students. ANHAM also funds the desks, chairs and books/pens and backpacks for all children in each school. ANHAM buys and distributes school uniforms to each school as many are impoverished in the district. ANHAM completed the 34th school, this was also the second girls school completed. ANHAM continues this great outreach started in 2014 and has had many accolades from the District and Education officials in Bagram, Afghanistan. The involvement with the local Afghan educational board helps ANHAM to address the UNSDG’s of Goal #5 Gender Equalityand Goal #4 – Quality Education. 21 REFURBISHMENT OF THE FIRST ALL-GIRLS CONNECTION WITH THE SDGS SCHOOL IN THE PARWAN DISTRICT ANHAM continued our School Community program started in early 2014 and completed a total of 34 schools to date, with our 32nd school renovation being our first Girls school completed which was handed over on March 2019. Our Through the ethical hiring practices and good Senior Local Community Officer (Ashuqullah) paying jobs that contribute to SDG 1 No attended the opening on behalf of ANHAM. The Poverty and SDG 8 Decent Work and school was plastered, painted and all windows Specifically target 1.1, to continue to support the and doors replaced. local workforce. ANHAM also handed over 200 x new desk, chairs, back packs including writing books, pens and school uniforms for all the girls. The school will be opening for the new term after the Afghanistan New Year. There was a total of 10 One of our most important SDG’s is #2 No schools scheduled for completion by December Hunger – and specifically 2.1 to increase the 2019. ANHAM will continue this worthwhile number of food parcels delivered increased by program throughout 2020-2021. 10% up to 1100 meals for the most needed within the community. Our most difficult to achieve SDG’s Goal is Goal #5 Gender Equality – due to the cultural roadblocks that we encounter, but we are committed to hiring and promoting more women in the coming years. The refurbishments of the local schools helps us achieve SDG #5 – Specifically Target 5.3 Increase the number of refurbished Schools and specifically All-Girls Schools by 2020-2021. 22 RESOURCE MANAGEMENT THE DOMINIO EEFECT tions. This will have a significant impact on LOOKING TOWARD THE FUTURE our recycling of 500ml plastic water bottles, ANHAM has always strived to recycle and which totaled over 600k plastic bottles use responsibly the natural resources that purchased for ANHAM consumption in CY are utilized within our operations and that 2019. contribute to making our operations successful. We will never stop looking for better ways to utilize our resources to help us sustain a We focused in 2019 to reduce our conbetter future for all of us. sumption of trucks, fuel and pallets by using recycled materials and realigning our loading cubed volume, which eliminates the number of trucks used for missions and which has a domino effect on consumption within our operations by reducing the quantity of resources used on a daily basis for trucks, fuel, and pallets, just to name a few. We have started to develop a clean water initiative 2019-2020 to bring deep-well water-pump stations to the various communities so they may have efficient use of this precious natural resource. These automated wells have led to better sanitation resulting in better health and quality of life for the community. With a look to the future, we will research ways to reduce our consumption of plastic 500ml bottled water by making an investment into 5-gallon water cooler stations within the offices and warehouse opera23 THE FIRST HURDLE, THE FIRST STEPS There is no escaping the serious supply and logistical challenges of operating in remote and underdeveloped parts of the world. Tackling these issues requires creativity and an ability to adapt quickly to changing conditions on the ground. We cannot ignore the prevailing culture in our industry, in which sustainability is rarely part of contract evaluations. To encourage a shift in mindset, we will focus on whole life cycle costs and use real-world examples to demonstrate how we remain competitive and profitable while also operating sustainably within those processes where it is financially viable to do so. This will be a gradual process that will take the full commitment of our Top Management and all Heads of Departments (HOD) dedicating their time and efforts into making this a reality within the ANHAM Prime Vendor Program. The cost of doing nothing will most likely not be felt by our generation, but will come due, within our children's futures, and to all generations that follow. The first step is now. DEEP IMPACT One of the most important issues that we have addressed within the local communities is the need for construction of freshwater well pump stations, which have benefitted the local Host Nation communities. The water pumps make drawing the water for the deep well much easier and allows for the control and regulation of the centralized water point. The increase in hydration and hygiene go along way to address the systemic health issues from lack of fresh drinking water. 24 THE DOMINO EFFECT CONTINUED STRIDES TOWARDS The reduction in pallets used per day has a SUSTAINABILTY domino effect that results in our sub-contractors One of our major partners is the Coastal Pacific using less fuel and oil for the trucks per day, Food Distributors (CPFD) which operates a once again further reducing our carbon footprint large, state of the art, distribution hub and works through reduced emissions. The use of plastic diligently to reduce the carbon footprint of their shirk wrap is also reduced, adding to the beneoperations. This in turn helps ANHAM reduce fits of improved palletization and load planning. our CFP. ANHAM is a major consumer of wooden pallets CPFD recycles 100% of all Wood, Plastic, and which are used for storage of subsistence within Paper waste generated preparing ANHAM our 35,000 rack Prime Vendor warehouse. This subsistence pallets for shipment overseas. resulted in over 635,000 pallets being procured and used in 2019. This has the beneficial effect of offsetting tonnes of equivalent carbon (Co2e) emissions from our ANHAM works together with our Local Pallet operational carbon footprint. Supplier to ensure we receive only the best quality pallets, responsibly produced, and free of CPFD innovates in other ways to reduce their any hazardous chemicals or pesticides. The CFP by utilizing LED Sensor Lights, Solar reduction in mission containers due to better Power Facilities, offering telecommuting utilization of outbound loading plans can opportunities and adding additional insulation to account for up to a 15% reduction in pallets their reefer containers to make them more temp used as well as other down the line resources in efficient. 2019. ANHAM is dedicated to relentlessly reducing the number of Truck/Container missions through the positive management of our loading volumes within the containers. For every Mc3 of volume that we can reduce with improved palletization schemes and loading patterns, we can reduce the number of pallets used per day, as well as reducing our carbon footprint by utilizing fewer trucks per day. 25 THE DOMINO EFFECT CONTINUED ANHAM has implemented for 2019, and now into 2020, the tracking of usage of our consumable resources utilized in making our operations work. The focus at this point is to ascertain the impact of a reduction in pallet usage during outbound operations within the warehouse operations. We have developed KPI’s that will help us track this variable and how it affects all the other variables and, in the end, make a large impact not only financially for ANHAM but also in our sustainability profile. We are using CY2019 as our baseline KPI and we have determined that we saved over 35,400 pallets by increasing our pallet height and reducing our truck/container usage throughout the year. This has equated into a financial savings of over $177k USD for the CY2019 as well as helping reduce our equivalent Co2 emissions and also our carbon footprint, which is a win-win situation for all. We have saved oved 14k pallets so far in CY2020. In CY2019 we have reduced the number of trucks by utilizing the maximum cube volume when loading the trucks for missions. This increase in loading efficiency has led to a reduction of 1022 truck/container for missions. Eliminating these trucks has resulted in reduced fuel consumption for the CY2019 of over 5,900 liters. The domino effect caused by these truck/containers not being used has helped reduced over 20k additional pallets for the consumption cycle. By eliminating these trucks, this has had the beneficial effect of offsetting 250 tonnes of equivalent carbon (Co2e) emissions from our operational carbon footprint. 26 ALM INTERNATIONAL IS A MAJOR LOCAL HOST NATION TRANSPORTATION SUB-CONTRACTOR AND HAVE A LARGE ROLE IN HELPING ANHAM ACHIEVE OUR SUSTAINABILITY GOALS IN 2020-2021. We work closely with their management to ensure that the policies and procedures that will allow us to reduce our carbon footprint are implemented and monitored throughout the year by ANHAM and ALM directly and indirectly. We look forward to a vibrant partnership with our local sub-contractors, like ALM, and the rest of our suppliers and services providers that make the ANHAM team unbeatable. 27 BEHIND THE NUMBERS CONNECTION WITH THE SDGS We will continue to look at our diesel fuel and motor oil consumption by our own operations (Gen Sets) as well as those of our transport sub-contractors. We have started to track the consumption of ANHAM is committed to improving the accessiboth commodities and that the numbers tell us bility to clean water sources which contribute to we need to improve on fuel consumption ratios SDG #6 – Clean Water and Sanitation, and and that we are making improvements in motor specifically Goal 6.1 – increase the number of oil consumption through more efficient freshwater wells dug in 2020-2021. management of this resource. The charts below show the two separate trends that are intrinsically related yet are going in opposite directions on the sustainability scale. ANHAM will continue to reduce the number of wooden pallets deployed on missions which contributes to SDG #12 – Responsible Consumption and Production and to target specifically 12.2 – increase case count and pallet heights to reduce the number of overall pallets used for outbounds missions. ANHAM will continue to develop new and inventive ways to reduce the usage of truck/containers which contributes to SSG #12 – Responsible Consumption and Production and to target specifically 12.1 increase the efficiency of cube volume during loading on outbound missions. ANHAM will continue to reduce the number of trucks through more efficient loading procedures contributes SDG #12 – Responsible Consumption and Production and to target specifically 12.3 – decrease the fuel consumption through elimination of truck/containers on missions. 28 UN GLOBAL COMPACT ANHAM has committed ourselves in 2020 We continue to champion ethical hiring and beyond to fulfilling our promise as a practices and actively fight against personal responsible partner in the UN Global Comenslavement, forced labour and trafficking pact and Sustainability Development Goals in people. We specifically ensure that all programs. We have continued to support our sub-contractors strictly adhere to the our local host nation communities with child-labour laws of our host nations. ethical hiring practices that allow everyone in the communities a chance at employment. We have committed ourselves to our outreach programs involving Food Drives for the most in-need populations and for School Refurbishments to support the communities and orphanages that are having to deal with the realities of the current conflict. We continue our partnership with the local and host nation governments to provide safe drinking water through installations of free water pumps. 29 THIS REPORT SERVES AS OUR ANNUAL COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS AND DESCRIBES OUR ACTIONS TO CONTINUALLY IMPROVE THE INTEGRATION OF THE COMPACT AND ITS PRINCIPLES INTO OUR BUSINESS STRATEGY, CULTURE AND DAY-TO-DAY OPERATIONS. HUMAN RIGHTS ACTIONS IN 2020 Principle 1 Businesses should support and Our position on human rights was further embedded into respect the protection of our business through regular policy training and by carryinternationally proclaimed ing out a large-scale employee survey to identify areas in human rights. need of further attention. Principle 2 Make sure that they are not All our employees are made aware of their rights, and we complicit in human right abuses. have mechanisms in place to ensure any shortcomings can be reported anonymously and dealt with effectively. ENVIRONMENT ACTIONS IN 2020 Principle 3 In 2019-2020, we helped install two water pumps in the Business should support a local communities vastly improving the access to fresh precautionary approach to water for drinking and hygiene. environmental challenges. Principle 4 We have begun to track all of our consumption of natural Undertake initiatives to pro-mote resources to ensure that we can be a responsible user of greater environmental responsithese precious resource. bility. Principle 5 We also will calculate the carbon footprint of selected Encourage the development and sites and projects. This will provided us with a baseline diffusion of environmentally against which to track improvements and helped us friendly technologies. identify the areas upon which we need to focus efforts and resources in 2020 and beyond. 30 LABOUR ACTIONS IN 2020 Principle 6 During 2019, ANHAM continued to offer employment Business should uphold the within a framework of legal, health, and safety pro visions freedom of association and the that aligns with international best practice, as set out by effective recognition of the right the International Labour Organization (ILO). to collective bargaining. Principle 7 We continue being a committed partner to Free As A The elimination of all forms of Human, an initiative to end the sexual exploitation of forced and compulsory labour. young girls, the use of child labour, and all other forms of human enslavement. Principle 8 Our 2019 employee survey indicated that some areas for The effective abolition of child improvement and we are now taking actions to remedy labour. this situation. Principle 9 Looking beyond our own operations, a small-scale The elimination of discrimination survey was carried out with some of our key strategic in respect of employment and suppliers in 2019. The survey results will guide the way occupation. we engage with them in 2020 and beyond. Principle 10 Throughout 2019-2020 we continued to reinforce our Business should work against zero-tolerance stance on bribery and corruption through corruption in all its forms, includpolicy training and supply chain engagements, and by ing extortion and bribery.. encouraging ANHAM staff and suppliers to report any misconduct via our independent whistleblower channel. 31 DATA MANAGEMENT The process of compiling quantifiable data help reduce the quantities of these items. points on the various resources that we As you will see on the data slides, if we can consume during our operations has been maximize the loading of a container, we as challenging as it has been rewarding. save on pallets used, which impacts the number of missions run, which then impacts We will continue to record our day to daythe amount of fuel and other required comusage of those items which are natural modities needed to keep the trucks running resources and directly impact our Carbon and on mission. Footprint. Currently we are focusing on three of our most used resources: Pallet We will continue support the host nation Consumption – Diesel Fuel Consumption communities we operate in and hope to Missions Completed Per Annum. make a lasting impact on the lives of the people who choose to work for ANHAM in This last resource involves all three comthe most trying of environments. modities as the truck/container carry the pallets to the customer and use diesel fuel ANHAM will do everything in its power to to run the engine and reefer units, each one ensure that our workers have a safe and of these items affects the other items usage well-run environment to operate under. totals, and therefore directly impact our Peace for ALL. Carbon Footprint. We are working closely with our Sub-Contractors for Transport, Pallet Supplies, and Fuel Consumption to 32 MEASURING OUR CARBON FOOTPRINT SUPPLIER AND SITES In 2020, in preparation for the target-setting To secure a robust process, we will look to process for 2021, we will make a concerted engage the support of an experienced and effort to measured our carbon footprint for the highly committed consulting firm, to help first time. This will provide us with a baseline ANHAM navigate these new waters. against which to track improvements, this work will create a solid foundation for our sustainabiliBy the end of this year or the beginning of 2021 ty reporting in the years to come. we will begin the task of measuring our carbon footprint. Since measuring will look at a In addition, the process will allow us to identify cross-section of locations/projects from which it our carbon hotspots — the areas upon which we would be possible to gauge our overall carbon need to focus our improvement efforts and footprint. resources most critically. Multiple sites maybe selected with several criteria in mind: the availability of meaningful HOW IS A CARBON FOOTPRINT data, the ability to establish operational boundaCALCULATED? ries, and their suitability for use as future exam• A carbon footprint is measured in tonnes of ples of what we can achieve. greenhouse gas emissions (GHG) • Greenhouse gases are those that have a global warming potential (GWP) SCOPE AND RESULTS We will follow the accepted industry standard, • The three main GHGs are carbon dioxide, GHG Protocol, the world’s most widely used methane, and nitrous oxide greenhouse gas accounting standard for organizations. We will determine our Scope which mat • Emissions are converted into CO2e (carbon included emissions from all measurable fuels, dioxide equivalent), a standard unit for measurpurchased products, energy, consumables, ing carbon footprints transport, and waste produced. • CO2e expresses the carbon footprint as a Where we can’t verify the data, we will make single number with the same global warming estimates, which is permitted under the GHG potential as the sum of all the different greenProtocol. Calculations will be based on CY house gases measured 2020. 33 AVERAGE PALLETS PER VEHICLE Headline: Increased from 13.44 in 2019 to 14.22 in 2020; increasing utilization & reducing transport footprint by 0.78 pallets per container resulting in one mission container saved every 20 missions. The Domino Effect kicks in and saves Container Mission Cost, which leads to a reduced number of trucks, which leads to fuel not used for the truck, as well as the reefer clip-on for frozen/chill loads will not use Freon gas and fuel to run the mission. These are very substantial reductions in our Carbon Equivalent Footprint. 34 INBOUND REVERSE LOGISTICS MISSIONS Headline: Increased from 58% in 2019 to 60% in 2020 reducing transport footprint: ANHAM attempts to reduce the required number of containers needed to perform our given number of mission during a day. Therefore we task delivering trucks to complete any “Pickup” they can be scheduled for to once again reduce the number of trucks and freeze/chill/dry containers used to accomplish the missions. Using a truck for an inbound reverse logistics will result in saving 1.55 Gallons of Fuel per mission. 35 COMBINED LOADS Headline: Increased from 12% average in 2019 to 16% average in 2020; increasing utilization, reducing required vehicles and transport footprint: AHAM again continues to find ways to reduce the carbon footprint of our operations by reducing the fuel, pallet, and Truck usage required to complete that days assigned missions. 36 CASES PER PALLETS (BASED ON WAREHOUSE CONSUMABLES REPORT) Headline: Increased from an average of 98 in 2019 to an average of 127 in 2020 cases per pallet; reducing pallet usage, increasing pallets Height/Cube utilization and increasing truck utilization: this is one of the most important improvements that we have made as this drives the Domino Effect throughout the Outbound Process for all of the resource savings that we recover due to the increase in cases per pallet. Due to the increase in average cases per pallets, every 4.3 pallets created will result in 1 full pallet saved and every 62 pallets created results in 1 truck being saved. 37 AIRFRAME FILL % Headline: Increased airframe fill % from 98.35% in 2019 to 99.31% in 2020; maximizing airframe capacity therefore reducing transport footprint: ANHAM air operations contribute a large portion of our GHG emissions due to several flights scheduled per week. ANHAM can eliminate one full flight through better utilization of improved fill rates. Which is a major help to reduce our Co2 emissions. 38 TRANSPORTATION FUEL USAGE Headline: Increase fuel usage over the past 12 months can be attributed to better management of refueling efforts for Trucks and Reefer Clip-on units stranded at checkpoints while on mission. While this is a positive step to ensure the safety of the conveyance and the food it has had the effect of elevating our sub-contractors usage in the short term. ANHAM will work with our sub-con to ensure we start to take the trend back down by increasing efficiencies for the trucks/containers while on mission which will lead to reduce fuel consumption. 39 MOTOR OIL USAGE Headline: Decrease in motor oil consumption can be directly attributed to a new management team installed at the POL department for ALM, where they have instituted stricter control of inventory and usage, which in turn has led to a marked decrease in the number of liters consumed per mission ALM (ANHAM) can see a decrease of almost 1,500 liters of motor oil by continuing the reduction rate of .10 liters per mission at a rate of approximately 14k missions run in a 12 month rolling average. 40 ANHAM FZCO SUSTAINABILITY POLICY Our Standard ANHAM is fully committed to the United Nations Sustainable Development Goals and will focus on the three core pillars of United Nations Sustainability Imitative – Economic, Environmental, and Social to make a positive impact on the communities throughout the world that we operate within. Economic Sustainability ANHAM will: Promote economic stability for the host nation local economy through our ethical hiring practices in support of our worldwide operations Engage host nation sub-contractors and business interest, to the maximum extent possible, with the intent of injecting economic stimulus into the local economy Continue to develop host nation agricultural industries in support of our Prime Vendor Operations worldwide Establish core relationships with host nation governments to promote business opportunities for local vendors and manufactures within the ANHAM scope of operations Help build host nation business infrastructure with continuity of ownership and expansion for local business that support ANHAM operations Environmental Sustainability Management is responsible for: The commitment to reducing our environmental impact and continually improving our environmental performance as an integral and fundamental part of our business strategy and operating methods Promoting, to the furthest extent possible, the reduction of waste within ANHAM operations and to strive for more efficient business models throughout our worldwide operations Procurement of supplies for operations worldwide that utilize recycled materials or components to the maximum extent possible Social Sustainability ANHAM will promote the support of community outreach programs in host countries that may initiate the construction or renovation of educational buildings, medical facilities, or religious areas as required by the local host nation community ANHAM is committed to recruiting, hiring, developing, and promoting employees without discrimination on the basis of race, color, sex, age, national origin, religion, or disability ANHAM including its subsidiary companies and regional offices will comply with all relevant and applicable local and international labor regulations, treaties, conventions, and principles relating to the protection, welfare and health & safety of children. 41 ANHAM FZCO ENVIRONMENTAL POLICY Our Standard The Company is committed to providing a productive, safe and healthy work environment for employees, contractors, clients, customers and visitors on its premises or that of its clients. This commitment extends to ensuring that the company’s operations do not place the local community at risk of injury, illness, property damage, and to ensuring its works are conducted in an environmentally sustainable and responsible manner. Our commitment will be communicated to all employees, contractors and suppliers. Our Commitment We will: Use systems of work that are environmentally sustainable and supported by documented procedures and audited systems Be pro-active in assessing environmental hazards for new business, new and existing work systems, practices and equipment Encourage team problem solving at all levels of the organization to implement work practices that continually improve environmental standards and productivity Report and investigate incidents, and implement systems and practices that prevent recurrence Ensure compliance with legislative requirements and current industry standards Train managers and employees to competently perform work described in safe work procedures Provide information to all employees, contractors and customers that inform them of environment issues relevant to the company’s operations Ensure products are safe and without adverse environmental impact Reduce, re-use and recycle waste materials wherever practical, and dispose of waste materials in an environmentally responsible manner. Responsibilities Management is accountable for implementing this policy in their respective area of responsibility. Compliance will be measured as part of annual performance reviews. Management is responsible for: Complying with the Company’s environmental standards Involvement in the development, promotion and implementation of procedures which incorporate environmentally safe systems and practice Training employees and line managers in the competent performance of their assigned tasks Effectively use company resources to meet the environment commitment. Employees and Contractors are to: Comply with all company policies, procedures and systems of work Report all known or observed environmental hazards to their immediate supervisor or manager Actively support the company’s environment program Contribute ideas that make our workplaces environmentally sustainable. Consultation Management and employees will participate in constructive and cooperative consultation on environment matters. The organization will consult with employees and contractors in any workplace change that may affect their health. 42 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2020 US Office UAE Office 1600 Tysons Boulevard Dubai Airport Freezone 6th Floor East Wing, Building 4A, Suite 608 McLean, Virginia, USA Dubai, UAE 22102 P.O Box 231082
