2020 Suntory Group CSR Site PDF CONTENTS Top Commitment…………………………………… 002 To Create Harmony with Society Cultural and Social Contribution……………………… 158 Suntory's Sustainable Management…………… 004 ● Basic Policy on Social Activities ● Enhancing CSR Activities using ISO26000 ● Arts, Culture and Academic Activities ● Sustainability Action Plan ● Sports Activities ● Editorial Policy on Sustainability Information ● Social Welfare ● Suntory Group Sustainability Vision ● Developing the Next Generation ● The Suntory Group's 7 Sustainability Themes ● Disaster Recovery Support ● Suntory Land of Water Kumamoto Support Project To Create Harmony with Customers and Partners ● The Suntory Tohoku Sun-Sun Project Products and Services……………………………………… 048 ● Contributions to Local Communities ● Supporting Challenged Sports ● Voluntary Declaration toward Consumer Orientation ● Employee Volunteer ● Promotion of Group Quality Management ● Quality Assurance from a Customer Perspective in To Create Harmony with Employee All Processes Diversity Management………………………………… 203 ● Appropriate Information Disclosure ● Communicating with Customers ● Basic Policy on Human Resource ● Nurturing Employees that are Consumer Oriented ● Employment Status ● Development of Human Resources ● Sustainable Procurementt ● Just and Fair Transactions ● Promoting Diversity ● Promoting Distribution Considering Safety ● Promoting Work-Life Balance ● Labor/Management Relations ● Reducing Harmful Drinking ● Occupational Health and Safety ● Measures for Healthy and Comfortable Lifestyles ● Health management ● Group Global Human Resources Department To Create Harmony with Nature Environment……… 081 ● Environmental Management Corporate Governance…………………………… 252 Environmental Vision / Business Activities and Environmental Impact / Environmental Management / ● Corporate Governance FY2019 Targets, Results and Evaluation / Environmental ● Basic Concepts and Operations for the Internal Education for Employees Control System ● Water Sustainability ● Compliance Sustainable Water Philosophy / Natural Water Sanctuaries ● The Suntory Group’ s Code of Business Ethics (Water Resource Cultivation/ Preserving Biodiversity) / ● Risk Management Bird Conservation Activities / Suntory Mizuiku Education Program for Nature and Water / Water Initiatives Worldwide / Measures Against Climate Change Group Company's Sustainability ……………… 277 ● Climate Change Measures ● Activities of Overseas Group Companies Suntory Group Plastic Policy / Preventing Global Warming / Suntory Beverage & Food Europe / Pepsi Bottling Initiatives in Production / Initiatives in Distribution / Ventures Group / Suntory Beverage & Food Asia / Energy Conservation in Vending Machines / Initiatives PT Suntory Garuda Beverage / Suntory PepsiCo in Sales, R&D, Offices, etc. / Green Procurement and Vietnam Beverage Co., Ltd. / Frucor Suntory / Beam Purchase / Reducing CO2 Emissions throughout the Value Suntory Inc. / Château Lagrange S.A.S. / Weingut Chain / Effective Use of Resources / Effective Use of Water Robert Weil Resources / 3R in Containers and Packaging / Flow of Collection Through Recycling of Containers / Promoting the Respect for Human Rights……………………… 349 Reduction and Recycling of Waste / Preventing Pollution and Management of Chemical Substances Evaluation from External Parties……………… 354 ● Environmental Communication Questionnaire Results …………………………… 355 Major Sustainability Data ……………………… 356 GRI Standards Content Index …………………… 381 001 Suntory Group's Sustainability Top Commitment Cases of COVID-19 caused by the novel coronavirus have spread, and we continue even now to fight this invisible enemy around the world. We extend our sympathies to those who have been infected with COVID-19 and pray for those who have lost loved ones during these trying times. Furthermore, we would like to express unending gratitude to the medical personnel who have been putting themselves on the line to test and treat their communities, as well as to all those who have worked to prevent the spread of infection. Since the founding of our company, we as a group have held firm our spirit of Giving Back to Society. In the difficult world we face today, this spirit continues to guide us in our actions to support the communities which we serve. In Japan, the United States, Canada and Europe, we began producing alcohol suitable for use as disinfectant; and in locations around the world, we have been engaging in community support efforts by providing products and making donations to medical personnel and other members of the local community. In this way, the Suntory Group will work to do whatever it can to help our communities overcome the severe situation of coronavirus spread. We believe we have a mission To Create Harmony with People and Nature in fulfilling that mission, we have contributed to the creation of rich lifestyles for people by providing customers with top-quality products and services in the 120 years since our founding while at the same time achieving a diverse society and coexistence with our precious global environment. Recent years have seen global issues intensifying and compounding, especially regarding climate and environment. Consumer awareness too has changed greatly as a result. At the G20 summit on finance and global economy held in Osaka last year and at the World Economic Forum held in Davos this January, global-scale issues such as climate change and marine plastic waste were major discussion themes. The world is becoming more active in working to solve those issues, and corporations must play a greater role in those efforts. The Suntory Group has a mission To Create Harmony with People and Nature as our corporate philosophy, so we must face those issues and further accelerate efforts to contribute to their solution. In 2015, the United Nations adopted the Sustainable Development (SDGs), and corporations are expected to contribute proactively to the creation of a sustainable society. In this context, the Suntory Group last year established the Suntory Group Sustainability Vision with seven sustainability themes that are important for our business. In addition to conserving water resources, reducing CO2 emissions, promoting a circular use of resources and other global environmental conservation efforts as well as respecting human rights in the supply chain, we will further accelerate efforts such as contributing to spiritually rich and healthy lives of people. In that, the group will work as one on sustainability management under a vision of Growing for Good. 002 Promotion of water sustainability on a global scale has been and continues to be key to our sustainability efforts, as water is a precious resource that supports people's lives and livelihood and is also the source of the Suntory Group's corporate activities. In addition to water sustainability initiatives, we will also strengthen our efforts to tackle the urgent issue of climate change. In our Environmental Vision 2050, we make clear our aim to deliver net zero greenhouse gas emissions. We will strive to realize a carbon-free society by promoting energy conservation activities, proactively introducing renewable energy, utilizing next-generation infrastructure, and collaborating with stakeholders in the value chain. Regarding plastic, we established a Plastic Policy in 2019 with a goal of 100% sustainability by switching the materials for all of the PET bottles used in our global operations to recycled materials or plant-derived materials by 2030 in order to contribute to a recycling-oriented and carbon-free society. If we are to achieve these ambitious goals, we must come together to share knowledge and technology as One Suntory, and work hand in hand with all stakeholders as partners. Regarding human rights, which is also one of the seven sustainability themes, we also established a new Suntory Group Human Rights Policy last year. In order to contribute to the happiness of our employees and all people involved in the supply chain, we aim at understanding the impact our business has on human rights through thorough review, and we actively cooperate with external stakeholders including business partners to promote efforts respecting human rights. We at the Suntory Group will continue to take on unique challenges to innovate and build a richer society as a multifaceted beverage and liquor company growing globally while listening to the voices of customers and other stakeholders. June 2020 Takeshi Niinami Representative Director, President & Chief Executive Officer Suntory Holdings Limited 003 Suntory Group's Sustainability Suntory's Sustainable Management Contributing to the realization of creating harmony with people and nature through giving back to society We aim To Create Harmony with People and Nature for society. The mission of the Suntory Group is to contribute to building society sustainable over the long term by working toward relationships in which both parties benefit without sacrificing the prosperous life culture of people or preservation of the natural environment. The Suntory Group is pouring its strength into a wide range of social contribution activities. The foundation for our philosophy to value these social contribution activities is rooted in the Giving Back to Society spirit actively passed down since our founding. Founder Shinjiro Torii wa s almos t religious in advoc ating this mana gement philosophy. His words taught us not only to reinvest in our businesses from our earnings but also ensure this revenue contributes to providing services to clients and business partners as well as to society. As found in the basis of the good for everyone philosophy held by Omi merchants to conduct business good for the seller, the buyer, and for the people, Shinjiro Torii also always wanted to contribute to society. What only Mizu To Ikiru Suntory can do This founding spirit has been passed down without fail to today. It is alive in our arts and culture initiatives represented by Suntory Museum of Art and Suntory Hall as well as in support to the Social Welfare Organization Hojukai and other social contribution activities. As part of these efforts, we are especially active in water sustainability incorporated into our environmental activities conducted under Suntory Follower Your Nature. Water is the most impor tant management resource for the Suntor y Group as well as a vital resource shared by everyone around the world. That is why we are grateful for the bounty nature has given us as a source for our products. To ensure a healthy natural ecosystem giving us these blessings from nature, we will always endeavor in a variety of initiatives, including the Natural Water Sanctuary projects, Suntory Mizuiku Natural Water Education Program and our bird conservation activities. As a Mizu To Ikiru company, we will aim to stand as a corporate group which protects the forests that cultivate water and quenches the needs of society as water quenches the thirst of all living things. Our hope to realize a society sustainable over the long term is the same as the passion shown by our founder. 004 Suntory Group Philosophy Mizu To Ikiru is our corporate brand promise. It is not just a tagline, but an open door, welcoming employees, consumers, and external stakeholders to understand who we are and what we believe in. We strive to preserve the environment that nurtures and protects precious water vital to the earth while continuing to challenge ourselves for the creation of new value as a company that enriches society. Our Mission To Create Harmony with People and Nature Our mission is the fundamental reason for Suntory to exist, and it guides and inspires our organization. We will focus on the needs of our customers. We deeply respect nature and will strive to protect the environment. By forging greater bonds of appreciation between people and the world around them, we will seek to promote richer, more fulfilling lives. This is the mission of the Suntory Group. 005 Our Vision Growing for Good Our Vision describes what Suntory wants to achieve. It applies both to the company as a whole, and to each individual within the company. The bigger we are, the greater our positive impact can be. We will grow to become a company that always benefits its community. By doing good things for society and the environment, we will help make a better, brighter future. This is the mission of the Suntory Group. Each and every employee must never forget the passion and desire to persevere in their work to continue to grow as individuals who earn trust through sincerity, which is the Good in Growing for Good. Our Values Our Values reflect our organization's culture. Yatte Minahare It is forever fundamental to Suntory and expressed in the two statements: We earnestly accept challenges. United by our drive to succeed, we move together to create markets and provide new value. From the start, Suntory has been a pioneer. Today we look forward boldly and confidently. Those passions lead to the creation of new markets and also allowed us to offer new values. Yatte Minahare is the value that shall be the driving force of our business operations. Suntory Group Way It sets out the standards of behavior expected of Suntory employees practicing in their daily activities, to make Suntory Group a company which is selected and loved by customers through the provision of unique values. Suntory Group Code of Business Ethics It sets forth the basic ethical principles to be followed by Suntory Group to fulfill social responsibilities and gain trust of society. 006 Mizu To Ikiru is the Suntory Group's promise to our stakeholders. Renew the world like water As a company that delivers the blessings of water and nature to our customers, we will protect and pass on the natural environment to the next generation. Satisfy people like water Just as water quenches the thirst of all living things, so will we enrich lives by delivering products, services and social activities of value to customers and society. Move freely like water We will continue to be a company where all employees take up the challenge to create new value, moving freely and changing and adapting like water. We will make continuous efforts in our daily activities to fulfill these three promises. 007 Relations with Stakeholders The Suntory Group pursues its business activities amid a range of connections with a variety of stakeholders. To continue being a company that contributes to the realization of a sustainable society, we will make clear our responsibilities to our stakeholders and communicate with them in various ways. We aim to incorporate feedback we receive and social needs into our corporate activities and continuously work to build deeply trusting and collaborative relationships with them. Opportunities for Communication with Stakeholders Four Sustainability Initiatives In order to more fully realize social responsibility in a way unique to the Suntory Group with philosophy of Sustainability as a foundation, we are promoting activities based on ISO26000 since 2011. We grasped the current situation and shared identified issues, and engaged our stakeholders based on each of the seven priority initiatives. The expectations and the level of interest of stakeholders is high in regards to global social issues and business challenges based on these results. We have also gathered our efforts into four initiatives by organizing challenges to realize our To Create Harmony with People and Nature corporate philosophy after we have identified challenges with an especially highpriority for the Suntory Group. At the Suntory Group, we continue to innovate and endeavor to be a Growing for Good company that is realizing a sustainable society as we expand globally while fulfilling our social responsibility by engaging in activities based on our corporate philosophy. ■(1) To Create Harmony with Customers and Partners: Products and Services To deliver joy to the customers with the highest-quality of products and services Suntory Group incorporates opinion of its customers in wide range of corporate activities while maintaining and improving quality throughout the entire value chain based on the Suntory Quality Policy of All for the Quality . We also actively engage in CSR procurement while tackling alcohol-related problems. 008 ■(2) To Create Harmony with Nature: Environment To preserve limited water and resources for future generation We have established Suntory Environmental Vision toward 2050 to pass down sustainable and rich natural environment to the next generation and will promote environmental management as a Group through two axes of Preserving and Regenerating the Natural Environment and Reducing Environmental Impact . ■(3) To Create Harmony with Society: Cultural and Social Contribution To build a bright future with initiatives rooted in the region Based on the founding spirit of Sharing the Profit with Society , we engage in wide range of cultural and social contribution activities that best suit the time, centered in the fields of arts and culture, sports and social welfare such as developing the next generation, supporting disaster affected areas and contributing to local communities. ■(4) To Create Harmony with Employees: Diversity Management To nurture employees with bigger global dreams Suntory Group aims for human resource development rising to the challenge to create new values with diversity management as its basic policy and to create a working environment filled with creativity where all employees can exert their full potential. Joining the United Nations Global Compact The Suntory Group supports international standards such as the Universal Declaration of Human Rights as well as the United Nations Guiding Principles on Business and Human Rights, and it has signed the United Nations Global Compact (10 Principles below), which contain universal principles for human rights, labor, and the environment advocated by the United Nations. Principle 1: Businesses should support and respect the protection of internationally proclaimed human rights; and Principle 2: make sure that they are not complicit in human rights abuses. 3.Businesses should uphold the freedom of association and the effective recognition of the right to collective bargaining; 4. the elimination of all forms of forced and compulsory labour; 5. the effective abolition of child labour; and 6. the elimination of discrimination in respect of employment and occupation. 7. Businesses should support a precautionary approach to environmental challenges; 8. undertake initiatives to promote greater environmental responsibility; and 9. encourage the development and diffusion of environmentally friendly technologies. 10. Businesses should work against corruption in all its forms, including extortion and bribery. In 2017, we participated in the Human Rights Due Diligence Working Group of the Global Compact Network Japan and advanced our knowledge about the international trends of labor practices. We believe complying to international laws and fulfilling our social responsibility is the mission of the Suntory Group in the promotion of sustainable business globally now and into the future. 009 Endorsing The CEO Water Mandate The Suntory Group endorsed The CEO Water Mandate global platform to address water resource issues, which is a United Nations Global Compact initiative to support the prevalence, practice and informational disclosure of water sustainable at companies. 010 Suntory Group's Philosophy on Sustainability Enhancing CSR Activities using ISO26000 In order to more fully realize social responsibility in a way unique to the Suntory Group with philosophy of CSR as a foundation, we are promoting CSR activities based on ISO26000 since 2011. We grasped the current situation and shared identified issues, and engaged our stakeholders based on each of the seven priority initiatives. The expectations and the level of interest of stakeholders is high in regards to global social issues and business challenges based on these results. In addition, we are promoting company-wide activities based on the action plans that are formulated for high-priority items stipulated by the Suntory Group in 2013 as CSR priority initiatives in particular that should be addressed. Process of CSR Activity Promotion Understanding the Current State of CSR Activities ■General CSR Committee We gathered around 40 representatives from main departments* related to CSR with the CSR Department of Suntory Holdings ltd. at the core to confirm and share the process of stakeholder engagement for the future while more deeply understanding ISO26000. * CSR Depar tment, Quality Strategy Planning Division, General Af fairs Depar tment, Legal Depar tment, Compliance Depar tment, Human Resource Depar tment, Environment al General CSR Committee Sustainability Strategy Department of Suntory Holdings Ltd. as well as the Supply Chain Management Division and the Customer Relations Division of Suntory Business Expert Ltd. ■Introducing inventory of CSR activities that use ISO26000 self-check sheets We extracted challenges of the Suntory Group by assessing the status of response using self-check sheets of relevant departments for the roughly 250 items in the expectations and actions set for each core subject of the ISO26000. ISO26000 self-check sheet 011 Sharing Experience of Challenges at the Suntory Group ■Debating Priority Challenges with Relevant Departments for Each Core Subject We gathered together the departments related to each of the seven core subjects* and debated the priority challenges that should be preferentially addressed by the Suntory Group. * Two themes were debated at the same time due to the mutually high relevance of human rights and labor practices. Human rights and labor practice themed debate Confirming Key Figures and Priority Issues ■External Key Figures and 1st Opinion Exchange for Each Core Subject We have introduced and confirmed external key figures and an exchange of opinions from March to April 2012 for the priority initiatives of each core subject debated internally. We are facilitating an even higher level of interaction by holding an ongoing exchange of opinions. Identification of Priority Initiatives We identified six CSR priority initiatives to address preferentially based on the expectations and interests of stakeholders and the importance to the Suntory Group. Six Prioritized CSR Initiatives 012 ■(1) W  e provide products and services that contribute to the safety, reliability, and healthy lifestyles of our customers first and foremost. Amid accelerating globalization and expansion of business domains at the Suntory Group, our responsibility to provide the highest quality of healthy, safe and reliable products and services is taking on more weight than ever. Under the Suntory Group Quality Policy, All for the Quality, we have established the Suntory Group Quality Assurance Code. Through this code, we have engaged in the maintenance and improvement of quality in all processes, from development and planning of products and services, to procurementof water, crops, packaging materials, and other rawmaterials, and on to manufacturing, distribution, and sales and servicing. In addition, paying heed to quality assurance from the customer's perspective, we are actively engaging in Voice of Customer (VOC) activities that incorporate customer feedback into management policies, with Improving food and beverage quality at the point of consumption as our motto. The Suntory Group will continue to deliver new enthusiasm and delight to our customers by providing high-quality products and services, based on our dialogs with customers around the world. ■(2) We coexist with Nature by committing to Water Sustainability and reducing environmental impact. Suntory Group business is supported by precious global resources such as water and agricultural products. Suntory Group business is supported by precious global resources such as water and agricultural products.It is our responsibility to engage in sustainable business practices through the promotion of environmental management in accordance with the Group philosophy ー To Create Harmony with People and Nature ー so that we may pass down a rich global environment to future generations. With a priority on engaging in water sustainability through business activities, Suntory has promoted the conservation of forests, where water resources are cultivated, and the return of water to the natural environment after thorough purification. Suntory has also continued a wide range of activities to reduce environmental impact. Such activities include energy and water saving at production facilities, lightening package weight, and implementation of vending machines with lower power consumption. In order to provide a clear direction for the Group's environmental management, Suntor y established Suntor y Environmental Vision toward 2050 and set Target toward 2020 in 2014. Suntor y Group continues promoting environmental management based on two axes: preserving and regenerating the natural environment and reducing environmental impact. ■(3) Based on the spirit of Giving back to society, we contribute to the enrichment of culture and lifestyles, as well as strengthening support for next generation. We are passing down the Sharing the Profit spirit of Suntory Founder Shinjiro Torii generation to generation because the Suntory Group believes business profits should not only be used for reinvestment into the business and providing services to clients and business partners but also for making a contribution to society. We have been engaging in a wide range of cultural and social contribution activities while considering the social issues of the times since the founding of Suntory from community contribution such as social welfare, education and disaster relief to promotion of arts, academia and local culture as well as support for sports and the development of the next generation. Close cooperation with stakeholders throughout the world, customers, business partners, and employees alike, has become increasingly important for sustained growth in the global expansion of business. The Suntory Group will further activities suitable to the situation in each country and region and contribute to the prosperous growth of lifestyle cultures and the next generation by deepening cooperation with Group companies worldwide and emphasizing arts, culture and sports, development of the next generation as well as social welfare. 013 ■(4) W  e celebrate diversity while promoting the career development of our employees who are all united by the Yatte Minahare spirit. Based on the Yatte Minahare challenge spirit, the Suntory Group has accelerated expansion both domestically in Japan and globally from alcohol and non-alcoholic beverages to business areas including health foods, food services and flowers. The pursuit of diversity forms the basis for the Suntory Group human resources management philosophy. By promoting diversity in our employee base as well as the acceptance of diverse values and ideas, we can bring forth even greater value. In an effort to maximize the potential of each and every employee in a work environment that overflows with creativity, the Suntory Group is currently putting high priority on developing talented employees who face the challenges of value creation head-on. Regular communication between supervisors and employees helps to clarify individual roles, facilitates the setting of targets for achievement and supports the development of each employee. We have also established methods to encourage employees to work hard to achieve ever higher goals without the fear of failure. ■(5) We promote CSR throughout our entire supply chain, working with our business partners. To stably deliver high-quality products and services to customers, it is essential to have good cooperative relationships with business partners. In addition, social requirements regarding compliance, human rights, and the environment have increased throughout the world. For these reasons, CSR activities are necessary for Group companies as well as supply chains. Suntory Group also views equitable and fair transactions with business partners extremely important in the realization of sustainable society through business activities, and strives to ensure social responsibility throughout supply chains. In order to fulfill such responsibility, we established the Suntory Group's Basic Policy on Supply Chain CSR, which includes six core items; legal compliance, human rights and labor standards, quality, environment, information security, and coexisting with society. ■(6) We commit to responsible marketing and reducing harmful drinking as a leading alcoholic beverage company. Alcohol production throughout the world is rooted in the climate and culture of each region. Alcohol has been a source of pleasure in daily life, and has played a significant role in celebrations over the centuries. However, alcohol is also associated with misuse and abuse, including underage drinking, driving while intoxicated, and alcoholism. As a multi-faceted food and beverage producer and supplier, Suntory Group embraces its responsibility to address these issues. Suntory Group has established Basic Principles regarding responsible drinking, and works to increase awareness about responsible drinking among the public. We conduct in-house checks on sales and advertising activities, and participate in, cooperate with, and support research institutions. We also participate in a wide range of activities regarding responsible drinking inside and outside Japan in cooperation with industries and the World Health Organization. Formulation and Execution of CSR Action Plans We formulated midterm goals and action plans based on each theme of the six prioritized CSR initiatives, and we are promoting activities throughout the entire Group. 014 Sustainability Action Plan To Create Harmony with Customers and Partners Target achieved： ●●● Achieved 70% or more： ●● Achieved less than 70%： ● ■We provide products and services that contribute to the safety, reliability, and healthy lifestyles of our customers first and foremost. Prioritized Mid-Term Targets Results in FY2019 FY2020 Action Plan Evaluation items ・Identify quality issues from ・Identified quality issues customer feedback and from customer feedback and improved quality. improved quality. ・Continue food bank ・Continued food bank activities. activities. ・Participate in GFSI activities ・Participated in GFSI activities to promote food safety. to promote food safety. ・Conduct strategic quality ・Conducted strategic quality Gain a higher level of assurance training. assurance training. ●●● trust from customers ・Review quality assurance ・Reviewed quality assurance initiatives for customers initiatives for customers and and customer service customer service personnel personnel as well as quality as well as quality support support tools to bring tools to bring awareness to awareness to information, information, and created new and create new information information support tools that support tools that are used are used very frequently. very frequently. ・Continue comprehensive safety and reliability check activities and promote ・Promoted comprehensive these activities throughout safety and reliability check Quality the group. activities throughout the assurance ・Engage in direct group. based on the communication with ・Engaged in direct customer's overseas Group companies communication with overseas perspective to further promote Group companies to deepen understanding about their understanding about Suntory MONOZUKURI Suntory MONOZUKURI Values Values (SMV) and activities (SMV). based on SMV. ・Expanded activities based ・Continue to expand on SMV at overseas Group activities at overseas Group companies. Enhance group-wide companies in accordance ・Implemented the Group quality assurance system with the Group Quality ●● Quality Management System and create synergy Management System and and activities based on the quality standards. quality standards in overseas ・Share legal and risk Group companies. information globally in ・Shared legal and risk a timely manner with information globally in a timely overseas Group companies manner with overseas Group and further enhance companies. systems that can respond ・Provided technical support to to this information from an resolve quality issues at Group early stage. companies worldwide. ・Put in place technical ・Ensured rainwater and support measures tailored biological safety quality to the circumstances at standards. each company and promote activities to reduce quality risks throughout the Group. 015 ・Continuous activity to improve quality of response ・Implemented external of the Customer Center assessment of telephone and ・Promote PDCA activities email support and enhanced based on results of Deepen relationships the PDCA cycle improvement evaluation of quality of with customers by activities response by external review Communication listening to customers' ・Held training on product ・Hold training and ●●● with customers opinions more broadly knowledge for staff of the workshops on product and deeply than Customer Center to improve knowledge for staff of before their skills the Customer Center to ・Conducted customer service improve their skills leader activities primarily at ・Improve provision of sales sites information through Customer Center website. ・Implemented prior assessment activities from customer perspective in each process in merchandising ・Enhanced VOC activities ・Implement VOC activities Expand system for that utilize customer Reflection in the entire value chain improving products feedback in management and ・Improve products and of customer and services based on merchandising (implement services utilizing customer feedback in consumer feedback regular VOC meeting with ●●● feedback corporate and penetrate departments involved in ・Continue to conduct activities throughout the entire product development) seminars designed for all group globally ・Deepened understanding employees about customers in every employee and engaged in awareness raising activities to cultivate a customer-oriented mindset. ■Alcohol Related Problems Prioritized Mid-Term Targets Results in FY2019 FY2020 Action Plan Evaluation items ・Further enhance the ・Implemented No Binge DRINK SMART platform at AwarenessDrinking! Campaign and STOP! companies and universities raising Popularize and raise Underage Drinking Campaign ・Introduce an alcohol initiatives awareness of responsible ・Launched the employee Drink reduction program for ●●● promoting drinking among Smart Ambassador program responsible heavy drinkers consumers ・Continued conducting drinking ・Further enhance the employee alcohol tolerance employee Drink Smart tests Ambassador program ・Thoroughly complied with ・Support amendments as an Leading the industry, Pro-active industry and voluntary internal industry to the Basic Plan implement industry approaches standards for Promotion of Measures commitments for to improve ・Strengthened support of against Alcohol-related the World Health ●●● industrywarning and other labeling on Harm wide Organization's global digital media ・Strengthen industry initiatives strategy to reduce ・Provided support to change and voluntary internal harmful uses of alcohol the definition of a minor standards 016 ■Promoting sustainability activities in the supply chain Prioritized Mid-Term Targets Results in FY2019 FY2020 Action Plan Evaluation items ・Promote a transition to the Sedex information ・Continue to platform from select and ・Selected primary business partners conventional Sustainability improve business and conducted sustainability questionnaires as a partners through questionnaires. means to understand Promoting questionnaires, ・Also provided explanations the sustainability sustainability audits and other about procedures for answering activities of our business activities in activities and questionnaires through partners. (Conventional raw material to utilize PDCA partner briefings and reduced ●●● questionnaires were procurement with the goal inconsistencies in these procedures. and conducted for business of realizing ・Joined Sedex distribution partners who are not Sedex sustainable ・Strengthened measures through members) procurement. the Safety Committee to promote ・Conduct risk assessment ・Improve safety in safety coordinated with distribution through Sedex assessment the distribution affiliates tools system ・Improve and continue promoting safety in logistics To Create Harmony with Nature Environment Target achieved： ●●● Achieved 70% or more： ●● Achieved less than 70%： ● Prioritized Mid-Term Targets Results in FY2019 FY2020 Action Plan Evaluation items Global expansion Surveys of birds focusing on birds of We will continue surveying of conservation prey at Natural Water Sanctuaries birds focusing on birds of activities to protect are conducted at 16 locations, and prey, which are the top of wild birds that maintenance is conducted in forests the ecological pyramid, at are the symbol of of focus giving consideration to their Natural Water Sanctuaries biodiversity breeding and nesting environments. and promote comprehensive forest maintenance giving consideration to their breeding and nesting ●● ・Supported wild bird protection environments. Suntory Nest building and activities in Japan and overseas Fund for Bird Preservation rearing of chicks by through grants from the Suntory will continue to promote eagles and hawks Fund for Bird Preservation. the support for wild bird at all the Natural ・Expanded informational conservation activities Water Sanctuaries communication through updates to through aiding various in Japan the Save the Birds website. organizations in and outside Japan. Preserving and In addition to implementing various Through these Natural Water Regenerating activities such as tree thinning and Sanctuaries, we aim to create the Natural transport of trimmings, building forests with a higher level Environment roadways and walkways, installing of water cultivation and rich protective fences around vegetation, biodiversity. planting and nurturing seedling of In addition to continuing to local trees based on the midto longExpand the area implement activities such as term vision, Natural Water Sanctuary of Natural Water tree thinning and transport Project has also been used to provide Sanctuary so as to of trimmings, building forestry engineer training and help make it twice the roadways and walkways, restore mountain forests damaged size of the territory installing protective fences ●● from typhoons. There are more and where Suntory around vegetation, planting more case examples of Ikurinzai withdraws water for and nurturing seedling of Timber from cultivated forests*1 inside its plants in Japan. local trees, the Natural Water and outside of the company, and we (12,000ha) Sanctuary Project specifically will continue to establish a system strives to develop forests that for strengthening and intensifying are able to endure mountain its utilization in the future. Our disasters. We will further expansion of Natural Water Sanctuary promote the use of Ikurinzai contract areas achieved our midterm Timber from cultivated goals―targets toward 2020―a year forests*1 in the future. early. 017 Prioritized items Mid-Term Targets Results in FY2018 FY2019 Action Plan Evaluation Expand content of Suntory Expanded content of Suntory Mizuiku activities, which Mizuiku activities and have been implemented enhanced awareness raising and for 17 years, and enhance dissemination of value of water awareness raising and and importance of nature that dissemination of value of nurture water water and importance of nature that nurtures water. ・57 times and 1,930 people ・Outdoor School of Forest and expected to participate Water held a total of 58 times in the Outdoor School of and 1,845 people participated Forest and Water Preserving ・Teaching about Water at Schools ・210 schools and 16,700 Sharing our and held at total of 207 schools and people expected to values and raising Regenerating 16,555 people participated participate in the Teaching ●● awareness on the the Natural about Water at Schools Environment importance of water ・Expand Mizuiku Natural ・6,200 people participated in Water Education Program the Mizuiku Natural Water in elementary schools to Education Program in elementary Dong Nai schools in Vietnam ・Expand Mizuiku Natural ・3,900 people participated in Water Education Program the Mizuiku Natural Water in elementary schools to Education Program in elementary Jakarta schools in Indonesia ・2,750 people expected to ・500 people participated in participate in the Mizuiku the Mizuiku Natural Water Natural Water Education Education Program in elementary Program in elementary schools in Thailand schools in Thailand Reduce water per Further reduce water usage at Reduce the use of water unit production at Group plants (reduction of water for washing and cooling ●●● Suntory Group*2 use intensity by 14.2% compared manufacturing equipment plants by 15%* 3 to 2015) and containers Reducing Reduce the weight of Environmental containers, use of renewable Impact Reduce CO2 resources and energy emission in the Further reduce CO2 emissions conservation at plants, entire value chain of ● throughout the entire value chain proactively introduce Suntory Group*2 by vending machines that 20%*4 consume the least amount of electricity in Japan, etc. *1 Suntory coined wood materials generated during maintenance for nurturing healthy forests as Ikurinzai timber *2 Group companies that collectively account for more than 95% of the Suntory Group's sales in 2015 (including overseas companies) *3 Reduction per unit production based on the business fields in 2015 *4 Total reduction based on the business fields in 2015 018 To Create Harmony with SocietyCultural and Social Contribution Target achieved: ●●● Achieved 70% or more: ●● Achieved less than 70%: ● Prioritized Mid-Term Targets Results in FY2019 FY2020 Action Plan Evaluation items ・Promoted culture, arts and ・Promote culture, arts and Broad Contribution society contributions though society contributions though Cultural, Arts Activities Through support for activities conducted support for activities conducted ●●● and Society Support of by the Suntory Foundation by the Suntory Foundation Contributions Foundation Activities for the Arts and the Suntory for the Arts and the Suntory Foundation. Foundation. ・Promote support activities for culture, arts and sports activities Enhance activities though the Tohoku Sun-Sun to support recovery Project and the Land of Water ・Promote support activities Kumamoto Support Project for culture, arts and sports Contributions of Tohoku and ・Expand water resource activities though the Tohoku to Local Kumamoto ●●● cultivation measure through Sun-Sun Project and the Land Communities coordinated with the Suntory Kumamoto of Water Kumamoto Support local governments, Groundwater Mirai Project Project NPOs, etc. ・Contribution of donations to areas affected by Typhoon No.15 and No.19 ・Supported local cultural activities by celebrating local ・Support local cultural activities culture through the Suntory by celebrating local culture Prize for Community Cultural through the Suntory Prize for Activities Community Cultural Activities Global ・Expansion of the number of ・Expansion of the number of Promote social development areas in the world where the areas in the world where the contribution of social Suntory Mizuiku Education Suntory Mizuiku Education ●● activities in areas of contribution Program for Nature and Water is Program for Nature and Water business operations activities implemented with a focus on the is implemented with a focus on Asia region including Vietnam, the Asia region Indonesia and Thailand. ・Begin implementation of social ・Began implementation of social contribution activities in other contribution activities in other areas areas ・Expanded participants in next ・Expand and maintain Strengthen next generation support programs participants in next generation Next generation support through cultural, sports, and support programs through generation programs through community contribution cultural and sports activities ●●● development cultural and sports activities (70,000 participants) (target of 96,000 participants) support ・Implementing a scholarship ・Implementing a scholarship activities system for challenged athletes system for challenged athletes ・Report activities to promote ・Report activities to promote the use of the online website Promote the the use of the online website Support (Volunteer Web) development (Volunteer Web) ・Held a volunteer month (twice a employee ・Held a volunteer month of platforms for year) participation ・Expand original volunteer active employee ・Expand original volunteer ●●● in social programs for employees participation in programs for employees contribution ・Annual participant target 2,000 social contribution ・Annual participant 1,300 activities employees in Japan activities employees in Japan ・Annual participant target 5,700 ・Annual participant 5,700 employees in global employees in global 019 To Create Harmony with EmployeeDiversity Management Target achieved: ●●● Achieved 70% or more: ●● Achieved less than 70%: ● Prioritized Mid-Term Results in FY2019 FY2020 Action Plan Evaluation items Targets ・Hold human rights seminars under themes about Cultivate an addressing assimilation ・Held human rights seminars at nine organizational issues of discriminated production plants (92 managers culture that communities, especially in participated). puts respect for the Kinki area (tentatively ・Introduced stratified human rights Respect for human rights planned for ten offices). seminars for Suntorians from junior ●●● Human Rights first and establish ・Continually introduce employees to newly appointed groupwide stratified human rights managers and executives in addition human rights seminars for newly to conducting training for plant management appointed executives, managers. mechanisms newly appointed managers, plant managers, and junior employees. ・Created a system for sharing the company philosophy. ・We collaborated from the planning stage to directly confront and solve management challenges unique to ・Promote greater efficiency each Group company and conducted by transitioning to training programs for sharing the company webinars for stratified philosophy. This system shared training and other seminars. Enhance human examples at joint Group company ・Create a system for sharing resource meetings to provide information for the company philosophy Development development wider dissemination at each Group with Group companies of Human system and ●●● company, which also helped explore worldwide. Resources promote Yatte new needs. ・Cultivate an organizational Minahare spirit of ・Vitalized Terakoya activities culture of independent employees ・We hosted numerous events with set learning, mentoring, and targets to cultivate an organizational connection by vitalizing culture of independent learning and the Terakoya learning mentoring with great results. Site platform within Suntory. access: 7,271 people (110% of previous year); participants: 2,646 people (up 125% of previous year); festivals; 120 events (up 115% of previous year) ・Provided e-Learning to every employee to encourage the understanding and practice of diversity and inclusion by everyone, and held unconscious bias training for managers. ・Hired two new employees with intellectual disabilities in 2019 to form a 16 person team entrusted with tasks requested by more than 100 Group ・Continually hold companies. unconscious bias themed ・We have built a platform to encourage training to bring understand Realize diversity employment and work commitments about diversity and management that through the exchange of information inclusion and incite prudent creates greater at group interviews and the Human Promoting action by each person. value through Resources Conference. ●●● Diversity ・Formulate and further accepting and ・Launched the SHINE network of activities under various utilizing diverse women throughout the Group globally themes, such as LGBT, values and ideas and introduced new career training seniors, global inclusivity, for young female employees. We gender, and disabilities, to also held seminars lead by female promote greater diversity. managers to encourage diversity and inclusion by management ー senior general managers in particular ー and conducted activities to realize a fair workplace free of gender discrimination (ratio of female managers: 10.4% with 177 female managers [up 0.4% with 11 new female managers]). 020 Transform ・Further initiatives to working styles heighten employee Promoting and create ・Transform working styles and create motivation (interest) Work-Life workplaces where workplaces where each person can ●● underpinned by the workBalance each person can make full use of their capabilities style innovation promotion make full use of leader system. their capabilities 021 Suntory's Sustainable Management Editorial Policy on Sustainability Information The Suntory Group is communicating its Sustainability initiatives in various forms through booklet, website, etc. Suntory Group's Sustainability website 2019 This website provides comprehensive information about important activities to realize our In Harmony with People and Nature mission and unique Suntory initiatives. Information such as sustainability-related data, unique Group company initiatives and dialogue with society are available. Please browse through the information based on your needs. ■Scope of Subjects Covered Organizations 300 Group companies in Japan and overseas, including Suntory Holdings Ltd. ・Environmental data covers 26 production plants in Japan and 61 production plants overseas owned by companies that collectively account for more than 90% of the Suntory Group's sales ・Personnel data focuses on employees who have employment contracts with Suntory Holdings Ltd. and Suntory Beverage & Food Ltd. Time Frame The data covers performance from January 1 to December 31, 2019. The activities covered include some of the most upto-date events. Guidelines Referenced ・GRI (Global Reporting Initiative), Sustainability Reporting Standard ・ISO26000 ( Guidance on social responsibility ) ■Published June 2019 (next edition scheduled for June 2021) 022 Suntory Group's Sustainability Suntory Group Sustainability Vision To realize coexistence with society and nature and become a truly valuable company, the Suntory Group is working toward the realization of our corporate philosophy To Create Harmony with People and Nature by developing a variety of activities together with stakeholders. Suntory Group Sustainability Vision ■The Suntory Group's vision on sustainability As a multifaceted consumer-oriented company, we are dedicated to realizing our mission To Create Harmony with People and Nature. This means promoting a sustainable society where nourishing and enriching people's lives and conserving the natural environment go hand in hand. To realize this ambition, we deeply respect the blessings of nature on which our products rely, and engage in a range of corporate social responsibility activities to promote responsible environmental management that ensures sustainable use of natural resources and a healthy natural water cycle. In addition to delivering safe, high-quality products and services that consumers love, we continue to look for opportunities across our entire value chain to contribute to a sustainable society. Our world faces a wide variety of environmental and social issues, such as water shortages, loss of biodiversity, climate change, pollution and increasing waste, poverty, human rights violations, and more. The Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs)* adopted at the 2015 UN Summit call on businesses to address social issues and to promote a sustainable society. While the world works to solve these problems together, we will continue to tackle these issues as we expand our global business based on our vision Growing for Good . *Sustainable Development Goals are targets adopted in a UN Summit in September 2015 that the whole world should tackle by 2030 023 ■Important sustainability themes for the Suntory Group We used the SDGs to identify priority areas for future activities. With the cooperation of external consultants and supported by reports from organizations such as the World Economic Forum, we analyzed important issues at our company. We assessed their importance both for stakeholders and for the Suntory Group, and identified four high priority initiatives: Target 6 Water and Sanitation, Target 3 Health and Welfare, Target 12 Responsible Production and Consumption, and Target 13 Climate Action. In addition, with the recognition that water is the most important area for our business as a Mizu To Ikiru company, we will work across the Group to protect water. In addition to environmental conservation, Suntory Group emphasizes enriching people's lives, which includes providing goods and services to customers and promoting innovation that contribute to a society in which we coexist To Create Harmony with People and Nature. The Suntory Group's 7 sustainability themes Theme Commitment Related SDGs Based on Suntory's Sustainable Water Philosophy, we as a group promote activities to preserve water including understanding of the water cycle, reduction, recycling and wastewater management, watershed Water conservation, and work with external stakeholders to achieve water sustainability. [Initiative] ● Suntory Group's Sustainable Water Philosophy ● Target towards 2030, Environmental Vision toward 2050 In order to promote a decarbonized society and to address climate change, we reduce carbon emissions through the introduction of the CO2 latest energy-saving technologies and the use of renewable energy at our facilities as well as in our operations throughout the value chain. [Initiative] ● Target towards 2030, Environmental Vision toward 2050 024 Theme Commitment Related SDGs With regard to agricultural products and other raw ingredients that are essential to our products, we cooperate with business partners across Raw ingredients the supply chain, identify social and environmental issues, and promote sustainability initiatives that enable us to grow together, thereby enriching our communities. [Initiative] ● Sustainable Procurement We consider the environment throughout the product life cycle— from product design, packaging materials, and containers, to Containers and tr an spor ta tion a nd r ecycling after c onsump ti on—and work to packaging achieve a circular economy. [Initiative] ● Suntory Group Plastic Policy ● 3Rs in Containers and Packaging To enrich society, the Suntory Group promotes activities under the following three themes: Alcohol products We contribute to a richer society through beer, wine and spirits, and other alcohol products that bring enjoyment to people, inspire human connections, and play a role in the celebrations and events that mark the milestones of their lives. We are committed to promoting the moderate consumption of our products and encouraging responsible choices about alcohol. We are a leader in working individually and in partnership with industry peers and other partners to reduce harmful consumption of alcohol, including overconsumption, drunk driving, underage drinking, and drinking during and after pregnancy, based on our Drink Smart alcohol responsibility program. We also offer nonHealth alcoholic and low-alcohol products to meet customer preferences. Soft drinks In addition to leveraging natural and healthy beverage development technologies cultivated in Japan, we address health and wellness concerns through our beverages and make our consumers' lives more natural, healthy, convenient, and rich. Health foods In order to contribute to a longer active life, we research the relationship between the power of nature and health to support people's health, beauty, and wellness through daily dietary habits. [Initiative] ● Reducing Harmful Drinking ● Measures for Healthy and Comfortable Lifestyles 025 Theme Commitment Related SDGs Group Employees In addition to promoting a safe work environment, we promote health management and provide growth opportunities with a longterm perspective. In addition to respect for people and prevention of harassment and other related issues, we promote diversity (including of race, religion, gender, sexual orientation, age, nationality, language, and disability) and inclusion (accepting and valuing the differences between each individual as an important part of who they are). We also ensure labor safety to promote an environment that is easy to work in and full of Human Rights the Yatte Minahare spirit. Value chain In order to contribute to the well-being of all people involved in the value chain, we carefully review and understand our impact on human rights, and cooperate with external stakeholders including suppliers to conduct activities for the protection of human rights. [Initiative] ● To Create Harmony with Employees ● Sustainable Procurement ● Respect for Human Rights We provide products and services that enrich peoples' minds and bodies, promote innovation and create new value, and contribute to the creation of a more human society. Based on our founding spirit Enriching Giving Back to Society, we address social issues and contribute to life enhancing social welfare, including the arts, culture, science, sports, and next generation education. In the regions where we do business, we value dialogue with the local community, and strive to help address local issues to enrich peoples' lives. [Initiative] ● To Create Harmony with Society Cultural and Social Contribution Promotion Organization With regard to the above sustainability themes and led by the Global Sustainability Committee, we promote global activities, formulate sustainability strategies, and monitor the progress on each project in coordination with the Board of Directors. Suntory Group's Environmental Management Promotion Organization 026 Based on Suntory's Sustainable Water Philosophy , we as a group promote activities to preserve water including understanding of the water cycle, reduction, recycling and wastewater management, watershed conservation, and work with external stakeholders to achieve water sustainability. Social Awareness Water is a valuable shared resource and the most important resource for the Suntory Group Water is a valuable resource for supporting people's lives and the source of all of the Suntory Group's corporate activities. However, factors including an increasing global population, economic growth of developing countries, and climate change have resulted in a global water crisis. There is concern that by 2050, 3.9 billion people, or about 40% of the world's population, will face the issues of water stress or water shortages ＊ . We have placed achieving water sustainability as the first priority of the Basic Principles of Suntory Group's Environmental Policy. In addition, the Suntory Group's Sustainable Water Philosophy was established in 2017 to promote various initiatives. ＊OECD Environmental Outlook to 2050 (2012) 027 Philosophy on the Sustainability Theme In our Environmental Vision toward 2050, we have established the following water sustainability goals: Reduce water consumption at our plants worldwide; preserve water resources and the ecosystem to cultivate more water than is used by our plants worldwide; realize sustainable water use at primary raw material farms; and share the Sustainable Water Philosophy broadly in communities where we are expanding our primary businesses. Suntory Group's Sustainable Water Philosophy 1. Understanding the natural cycle of water We investigate watersheds around our sites to understand the local hydrological cycle, using a scientific approach when needed. 2. Promoting environmentally conscious water use We reduce the environmental impacts of water use on the natural water cycle by implementing 3R activities and returning water to nature after adequate treatment. 3. Conserving watersheds We conserve our watersheds and endeavor to improve local water quality and quantity in cooperation with stakeholders for a sustainable future. 4. Engaging with the local community We endeavor to support our community by fostering collective actions to solve water issues and enrich society. Initiative Introduction Natural Water Sanctuary activities using scientific approaches We started our Natural Water Sanctuary activities in 2003 for the purposes of improving water resource cultivation and biodiversity. Until now, the Natural Water Sanctuary activities have grown to approximately 12,000 ha across 21 sites in 15 prefectures throughout Japan. Our original goal was to succeed in cultivating more than twice the amount of water used by our domestic plants by 2020. We achieved this goal in 2019, one year ahead of schedule. With the Suntory Institute for Water Science playing a central role, we collaborate with researchers from various fields to carry out ongoing activities based on science, looking ahead decades or even 100 years into the future. In addition to our Natural Water Sanctuary activities, we conduct bird conservation activities (Suntory Bird Conservation Activities) and implement the Suntory Mizuiku Education Program for Nature and Water. We are also continuing to expand these activities in the areas around the world where we conduct our business activities. 028 Bringing Suntory Mizuiku Education Program for Nature and Water to the world Launched in Japan in 2004, Suntory Mizuiku Education Program for Nature and Water is a program unique to Suntory designed for the next generation to realize the beauty of nature , to understand the importance of both water and the forests that nurture the groundwater, and to think about what they can do to ensure there is water in the future. With the expansion of Suntory Group's business activities internationally, we also launched Suntory Mizuiku Education Program for Nature and Water in Vietnam in 2015 and in Indonesia and Thailand in 2019 with the hope of promoting environmental activities globally. At the international level, Suntory Mizuiku Education Program for Nature and Water provides children with on-site lessons at schools and with outdoor nature programs where they learn about the importance of water, hygiene management, the importance of water source conservation, etc. As water is a very local resource, the programming in each region is developed according to the local water issues. In addition, we are contributing to the installation of toilets and washrooms at elementary schools in Vietnam to improve sanitary environment of children. In Thailand, we prevented sediment-based erosion by slowing the currents of streams, installed small weirs to support permeation of underground water, planting trees to prevent soil from flowing into the streams, and carrying out other water resource preservation activities. We will continue to promote Suntory Mizuiku Education Program for Nature and Water, one of our next generation educational programs, in countries where we carry out business. Goals and Achievements Targets Toward & Progress 029 Aiming for the realization of a decarbonized society, we reduce carbon emissions by promoting energy-saving activities, proactively implement renewable energy solutions, utilize next-generation infrastructure options, and work together with stakeholders across the value chain. Social Awareness Climate change measures play a significant role in the Suntory Group's environmental management The Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change (IPCC) estimates that by the end of the current century, the average temperature of the Earth will rise 0.3 to 4.8℃ . As a result, it is presumed that this change will lead to a rise in sea level and frequent extreme weather, which will in effect have a large impact on the ecosystem, food production, etc. Dedicated to our mission To Create Harmony with People and Nature, in order to protect the global environment, which to us serves as an important foundation of our business, we are working to reduce CO 2 emissions at our own sites around the world as well as in the entire value chain out side our bases and promoting environmental management throughout the Group. 030 Philosophy on the Sustainability Theme In our Environmental Vision toward 2050, Suntor y Group aims to achieve near-zero GHG emissions in the entire value chain by 2050. Our Environmental Targets toward 2030 including reducing CO 2 emissions 25% at our bases globally as well as reducing CO 2 emissions 20% in the value chain outside our bases. Environmental Vision toward 2050 and Environmental Targets toward 2030 Environmental Vision toward 2050 ・Aim for net zero greenhouse gas emissions across the whole value chain by 2050. ・Continue to promote energy conservation, proactively implement renewable energy solutions, utilize next-generation infrastructure options and work together with stakeholders across the value chain in order to contribute to realizing a decarbonized society Environmental Targets toward 2030 ・Reduce CO 2 emissions 25% at our bases globally through efforts such as the adoption of that latest energy-saving technologies and the use of renewable energy＊ ・Reduce CO 2 emissions 20% in the value chain outside our bases＊ ＊Total reduction based on the business fields in 2015 Initiative Introduction Utilization of the latest energy-saving technologies and renewable energy at our plants We are proactively adopting the latest energy-saving technologies at Suntory Group plants. For example, we began delivering power to other owned plants obtained by a cogeneration system, which recovers heat generated from inhouse generation as a heart source, at Tonegawa Brewery in Japan. At our tequila plant in Mexico, we installed oncethrough boilers designed to improve the heat recovery rate during the distillation process. In addition to promoting renewable energy use through measures such as installing photovoltaic panels at our plant in Carcagente, Spain (capable of generating approx. 737kW of electricity) and our Minami Alps Hakushu Water Plant in Japan (capable of generating approx. 490kW of electricity), we are working to reduce CO 2 emissions from a variety of angles, including switching from heavy oil to city gas, LNG (liquefied natural gas), and biomass fuels, natural fuels that have fewer CO 2 emissions per unit. 031 Suntory Tennensui Kita Alps Shinano-no-Mori Plant The Kita Alps Shinano-no-Mori Plant, which is currently under construction in Omachi City, Nagano Prefecture (Japan) to serve as our fourth water resource for Suntory Tennensui Mineral Water with operations expected to begin in the spring of 2021, is planned to become a world-class eco-friendly plant. It will become the Suntory Group's first zero CO 2 emissions plant* due to factors including the adoption of boilers which use renewable energy and biomass fuel, as well as electric power procurement derived from renewable energy. ＊Denotes plant that will achieve near-zero CO 2 emissions during the manufacturing process due to promoting energy savings, adoption of renewable energy, use of carbon credits that offset CO 2 emissions from fossil fuels, etc. Suntory Tennensui Kita Alps Shinano-no-Mori Plant Goals and Achievements Targets Toward & Progress 032 With regard to agricultural products and other raw ingredients that are essential to our products, we cooperate with business partners across the supply chain, identify social and environmental issues, and promote sustainability initiatives that enable us to grow together, thereby enriching our communities. Social Awareness Emphasizing sustainable procurement which consider the environment and society It is predicted that abnormal weather, such as drought and flooding, occurring due to the rise in the Earth's average temperature due to climate change will have a major impact on production activities, including causing fluctuations in production volumes and creating the need to move to other locations which offer suitable cultivation. Furthermore, behind production and procurement activities lie social issues that negatively affect the human rights of people working in the supply chain. In order to offer our customers high-quality products and services, at the Suntory Group we believe it is crucial to promote sustainability throughout our entire supply chain. This means we need to give due consideration to environment and societ y, a s well a s to safet y and reliability. 033 Philosophy on the Sustainability Theme Working with business partners to promote activities throughout the supply chain We established the Suntory Group Supplier Guidelines based on the Basic Policy on the Sustainable Supply Chain in June 2017 to contribute to the realization of a sustainable society while also accelerating sustainable procurement within the Suntory Group. These guidelines put in place specific compliance items required in each field from human rights and legal compliance to the environment for suppliers of Suntory in Japan and overseas to confirm the same ethical values are shared between the Suntory Group and its suppliers. We share our policy with major suppliers at the annual supplier gathering. In addition, We have newly established Global Procurement Promotion Division in April 2019 to promote sustainable procurement throughout the Group and have been conducting optimum and sustainable procurement across the globe. The Suntory Group's Basic Policy on Supply Chain Sustainability (Established 2011) In order to provide high-quality products and services safely and reliably based on our corporate philosophy of To Create Harmony with People and Nature and our Code of Business Ethics, the Suntory Group engages in fair business practices and, in collaboration with supply chain business partners, promotes procurement activities that take social responsibility into consideration, mindful of such issues as human rights, labor standards, and the environment. We build good partnerships with our business partners and contribute toward realizing a truly affluent and sustainable society. 1. Legal Compliance and Respect for International Standards of Conduct We will promote fair and equitable procurement activities that comply with each country's laws and respect international standards of conduct. 2. Consideration for Human Rights, Labor, and Safety and Health We will promote supply chain CSR initiatives that respect basic human rights and are mindful of labor conditions and safety and health. 3. Guaranteeing Quality and Safety Aligned with the Suntory Group Quality Policy, we will promote supply chain CSR initiatives that seek to guarantee a high level of quality and safety based on the optimal standards for quality, cost, and supply. 4. Consideration for the Global Environment Aligned with the Basic Principles of Suntory Group's Environmental Policy, we will promote procurement activities mindful of the global environment. 5. Preservation of Information Security Confidential information regarding procurement dealings and personal information will be strictly controlled. 6. Coexistence with Society We will promote social contribution initiatives directed toward coexisting within society. 034 Initiative Introduction Joining Sedex Suntory Group conducts a screening based on the Basic Policy on the Sustainable Supply Chain for all new suppliers. In addition, we joined Sedex, the largest supplier ethical information sharing platform for corporate ESG data in the world, in June 2019. We are promoting the sharing of information by joining Sedex and responding to SAQ* to the suppliers to continue identifying issues. As of May 2020, 713 manufacturing facilities of suppliers around the global have a connection with the Suntory Group through Sedex, and we already purchase more than 70% of ingredients and packaging materials from Sedex members. From now on, we will conduct risk assessment using the Sedex assessment tool considering the results of Sedex SAQ. ＊Self Assessment Questionnaire Support activities for blackcurrant farmers Based in the UK, Suntory Beverage & Food Great Britain and Ireland (SBF GB&I) produces and sells of Ribena, a soft drink that is a favorite of many people in Europe. 90% of the blackcurrants used to make Ribena are produced in the UK. SBF GB&I started providing blackcurrant farmers with sustainable farming support in 2004. In addition to other efforts, we promote the employment of cultivation experts (agronomists) who provide advice directly to farmers as well as research on blackcurrants resistant to climate change. Furthermore, we have established a biodiversity roadmap tailored to each farm as well as the individual habitats around it, and are promoting ecosystem conservation activities for rivers and wetlands. 035 We consider the environment throughout the product life cycle-from product design, packaging materials, and containers, to transportation and recycling after consumption-and work to achieve a circular economy. Social Awareness Toward making all plastic bottles used in the Group to be sustainable by 2030 Pla s tic produc t s have enriched our lives due to their usefulness. However, environmental pollution caused by improper handling of used plastics has become a major social issue. In Japan, the Ministry of the Environment has established the Plastics Material Cycle Strategy as a strategy for comprehensively promoting resource recycling while recognizing the convenience of plastic products. The Suntory Group is united in addressing the issue of plastics, formulating the Suntory Group Plastic Policy which view it as an urgent issue that we should take the initiative in dealing with. 036 Philosophy on the Sustainability Theme Reducing environmental impact from containers and packaging through our unique 2R+B*1 Strategy Suntor y Group recognizes the social and environmental impacts that containers and packaging cause and established Guidelines for the Environmental Design of Containers and Packaging in 1997. In regard to plastic bottles specifically, based on our unique 2R+B (Reduce/Recycle + Bio) strategy, we are working to reduce the weight of the containers, recycle them, and actively utilize naturally decomposable plantbased resins. We have created the lightest bottle cap produced in Japan* 2 , the thinnest bottle label (consisting of 80% reused PET resin), and the lightest domestic PET bottle (consisting of 30% plant-based material)* 3 . We aim to switch all the PET bottles used for Suntory products to be made of recycled or plant-based material by 2030, achieving zero use of virgin petroleum-based materials, contributing to the realization of a recycling-oriented and zero carbon society. ＊1 2R+B is a registered trademark. ＊2 Designed for plastic bottles with 30 mm diameter necks. As of April 2020 ＊3 Plastic bottles for mineral water (500m to 600m) in Japan. As of April 2020 Suntory Group Plastic Policy Expressing gratitude toward the Blessings of Nature that are the source of Suntory's products, the Suntory Group will provide strong leadership for transforming into a recycling-oriented and zero carbon society to bring about a world where diverse animal and plant life shines and resonates. With its diversity in usage and convenience, plastic has made our lives easier. The plastic containers and packaging we use serve a useful function, but to prevent them from having a negative impact on the global environment, we will promote problem-solving efforts together with various stakeholders. Each employee of Suntory will work on taking responsible action to solve problems and take the initiative in bringing about a sustainable society. 1. Recycle & Renewable: ・Aim to switch all the PET bottles used globally for Suntory products to be made of recycled or plant-based material by 2030, achieving zero use of virgin petroleum-based materials. ・Actively work and collaborate with government agencies, industry, environmental non-governmental and non-profit organizations for the measures necessary to develop an efficient recycling system based on the situation of each country where we do business. 2. Reduce & Replacement: Reduce the amount of plastic used by changing the design of containers and packaging and look for the introduction of alternative containers that do not negatively impact the environment in order to effectively utilize resources. 3. Innovation: Actively invest in innovation for materials and processes that improve the recycling rate and minimize environmental impact. 4. New Behavior: Promote activities that drive change in consumer behavior. Each Suntory employee will work to change their lifestyle, promote sorting and collection, and actively participate in social contribution activities such as cleaning up rivers and beaches. 037 Initiative Introduction F-to-P direct recycling technology We worked with Kyoei Sangyo Co., Ltd. SIPA in Italy and EREMA in Austria to be the first to succeed in developing a recycling technology that can directly manufacture preforms after processing crushed and cleaned flake from recycled PET bottles. Compared to the conventional technology which required several processes before being able to manufacturing preforms, F-to-P direct recycling technology can reduce CO 2 emissions by approximately 25%*4 and reduce CO 2 emissions by at least 60% compared to bottles made by oil based materials. This F-to-P direct recycling technology received the WorldStar Award at WorldStar Packaging Awards 2019. ＊4 Processes from spent PET bottles to the preform (1kg) Establishment of R Plus Japan Ltd. Suntory Group and Anellotech, Inc., a biochemical venture firm in the United States, have worked in a collaborative development of a plastic bottle that uses 100% plant-derived raw materials. Through this development, we were able to discover new possibilities for developing an efficient recycling technology for used plastics with low environmental impact. This technology is one of the most unique, ground-breaking technologies in the world, which can be expected to recycle plastics with less CO 2 emissions and energy consumption than ever before. Aiming for the actual utilization of this technology, 12 companies* 5 (including Suntory) within the plastics supply chain established R Plus Japan Ltd., a joint venture company focused on the recycling of used plastics. ＊5 TOYOBO Co. Ltd., Rengo Co. Ltd., Toyo Seikan Group Holdings Ltd., J&T Recycling Corporation, Asahi Group Holdings Ltd., Iwatani Corporation, Dai Nippon Printing Co. Ltd., Toppan Printing Co. Ltd., Fuji Seal International Inc., Hokkaican Co. Ltd., and Yoshino Kogyosho Co. Ltd. R PLUS JAPAN Ltd. 038 To enrich society, the Suntory Group promotes activities under the following three themes: alcoholic beverages, soft drinks, and health foods. Social Awareness Contributing to solving world health issues through products and services There are a variety of health issues affecting the global population. For example, a 2017 indicated that one in eight adults aged 18 years and older were obese; in 2010 the World Health Organization ( WHO) adopted the Global strategy to reduce harmful use of alcohol to address the risk factors thereof; and by 2045, the number of elderly people in the world is expected to exceed the number of children due to an aging global population. While these examples are varied, each one is an issue Suntory seeks to address through its products and services. Suntory strives to prevent alcohol-related issues and raise awareness of responsible drinking in order to contribute to healthy living. Furthermore, through continuous research and development led in Japan, we aim to provide Natural and Healthy beverages as well as health foods to support wellness, with a goal of contributing to the realization of a healthy society where people are healthy in mind and body. 039 Philosophy on the Sustainability Themes Alcoholic beverages As a provider of alcoholic beverages including beer, wine and spirits, Suntory seeks to inspire human connections and to celebrate the milestones of our lives. To this end, we are committed to promoting the moderate consumption of our products and encouraging responsible choices surrounding alcohol. With our Drink Smart alcohol responsibility program as a core, we work both within the Suntory Group and in partnership with industry peers and other partners to reduce harmful consumption of alcohol, including overconsumption, driving under the influence, underage drinking, and drinking during and after pregnancy. We also offer non-alcoholic and low-alcohol products to meet customer preferences and support healthy lifestyles. Soft drinks In addition to leveraging Japan-led research on and development of Natural and Healthy beverages, we address health and wellness concerns through our beverages to allow consumers to make positive choices in pursuit of a natural, healthy, convenient and rich lifestyle. Health foods In order to contribute to a longer active life, we research the relationship between the power of nature and health to support people's health, beauty, and wellness through daily dietary habits. Initiative Introduction Development of products that respond to the needs of health-conscious consumers In order to respond to the needs of health-conscious consumers, Suntory Group promotes the development of food for specified health uses (FOSHU), functional RTD beverages, and health foods based on research. Alcoholic beverages In addition to raising awareness regarding responsible drinking, the Suntory Group is striving to promote low-alcohol and non-alcoholic drinks for a broad range of adult consumers of legal drinking age to enjoy without worrying about the effects of alcohol. The non-alcoholic drink All-Free is a product that has zero calories, zero sugar, and zero purines. In 2019, we launched a functional RTD called Karada wo Omou All-Free, which can reduce visceral fat. 040 Soft drinks Suntory provides various beverages categorized as food for specified health uses (FOSHU) due to their various positive health effects. For example, Kuro Oolong Tea OTPP was developed based on research results to apply prevention of fat absorption in polymerized polyphenols of oolong tea characteristics; Sesame Barley Tea is suitable for people with high blood pressure; Pepsi Special prevents fat absorption; and Tokucha (FOSHU Iyemon) is the world's first drink to clarify the lipolytic action of quercetin glycoside. While contributing to the health of our customers with a variety of lineups such as Iyemon Plus, a ready-to-drink (RTD) product which has the ability to lower bad cholesterol (LDL), we also ensure that a high quality of taste is maintained and will continue research to deliver products that are both healthy and delicious. In addition, utilizing knowledge for developing sugar-free beverages such as tea and water and low-sugar beverages, knowledge cultivated for many years in Japan, we are expanding our natural and healthy beverage portfolio and actively promoting the use of less sugar in soft drinks globally. Health foods At Suntory Wellness, in order to help provide each and every customer with a healthy, beautiful, and enriched daily life, we search for ingredients that are good for health and scientifically verify how to make the most of them. In the mid-1980s, we took on the challenge of analyzing the functionality of sesame that has been praised for its health benefits and scientifically investigating the health effectiveness of sesamin, which is one minor component of sesame lignan that is part of sesame. This was commercialized as our first health food in 1993. Thereafter, we released Sesamin EX, a more powerful version of the product, based on a combination with vitamin E, tocotrienol, Oriza Plus, which is a component derived from brown rice. Development of SUNTORY+, a service to support health management of companies Suntory Beverage & Food Ltd. launched the 100 Year Life Project in 2018 with the hope of being a company that supports people to lead healthy, optimistic lives, and to find the power to be themselves. We are also promoting joint research with external dedicated agencies; developing and strengthening of our product portfolio of beverages that address lifestyle diseases; providing services to improve lifestyle habits; and engaging in various other health-related initiatives. As a service to improve lifestyle habits, we developed SUNTORY+, a free app that supports health management within companies by encouraging the individual development of healthy habits for employees. It has a large number of points of contact with vending machines at work, a drink portfolio by issue, such as sugar measures, blood pressure measures, cholesterol measures, body fat measures, and daily drinks. It makes use of communication methods that capture consumer insights accumulated during development. We will strive to support the health of our customers even when they reach 100 years old. 041 In addition to promoting a safe work environment for Suntory Group employees, we promote health management and provide growth opportunities with a longterm perspective. This allows us to support the realization of healthy, joyful lives and promote diversity and inclusion. In order to contribute to the well-being of all people involved in the value chain, we actively cooperate with external stakeholders to promote activities for the protection of human rights. Social Awareness Respecting the human rights of everyone connected with our business In 2011 , the United National Guiding Principles on Business and Human Rights were approved at the United Nations Human Rights Council, becoming the global standard for all countries and companies to follow. In 2015, the Modern Slavery Act 2015 (UK) was enacted to confirm and eradicate human rights violations and risks such as forced labor and human trafficking in company supply chains. As a result, society is increasingly interested in the initiatives that companies take to protect human rights. Suntory Group promotes initiatives that aim at protecting the human rights of all people related to our business. 042 Philosophy on the Sustainability Themes With the globalization of business practices, society is increasingly interested in the initiatives that companies take to protect human rights. The Suntory Group considers the respect for human rights of stakeholders a highly important issue and reflects it in its sustainability vision. To promote activities considering human rights, we have formulated the Suntory Group Human Rights Policy to further strengthen existing initiatives by engaging with employees and suppliers. Initiative Introduction Creating an organization that enables diverse employees to carry out Yatte Minahare through the promotion of diversification of characteristics that they hold and respect for their differences To continue ceaselessly in the creation of new value, in 2011 we created the Diversity Promotion Section based on our belief in the importance of actively accepting and empowering a diverse range of people and values irrespective of nationality, age, or other attributes. Four prioritized activity areas ( Surpassing borders, Overcoming gender, Overcoming disabilities, and Overcoming age ) were set forth in 2012 with the Suntory Group Diversity Vision established in 2017. Further Promoting LGBT Activities in 2017 We created an LGBT Handbook, conducted e-learning for all employees, and received the highest Gold rating in the PRIDE Index *, which is the evaluation index for efforts related to sexual minorities. ＊This index is broken down into five categories: 1. Policy, 2. Representation, 3. Inspiration, 4. Development, and 5. Engagement/ Empowerment. This is the first index for LGBT in Japan established in 2016. 043 In addition, the Suntory Group started employing people with intellectual disabilities in 2015. We hired 20 people over a six year period to April 2020 who are working at two of our offices in Tokyo and Osaka. Since April 2018, this team, named the Collaborative Center, is in charge of centralizing some of the daily work, contributing to create more timeeffective procedures. Through work and various experiences, employees with disabilities aim to grow and become independent, and play an active role as a member (driving force) of the organization. We continue to take on the challenge of creating an organization in which employees with diverse personalities interact and influence each other, and working together is the norm. Dialogue with experts for strengthening human rights initiatives In October 2019, we held a dialogue with experts on human rights issues in Japan and overseas in cooperation with CRT Japan to strengthen the Suntory Group's human rights initiatives. We received feedback on Suntory's human rights strategy and major initiatives (in-house and supply chain based). ＊Dialogue Participants: ・Hiroshi Ishida, CRT Japan ・Livio Sarandrea, United Nations Development Programme (UNDP) Bankok Regional Hub ・Dirk Hoffmann, Danish Institute for Human Rights ・Camille Le Pors, WBA/CHRB ・Puvan Selvanathan, Bluenumber Foundation 044 Based on our founding spirit Giving Back to Society, we contribute to enhancing social welfare, including the arts, culture, science, sports, and next generation education. We strive to help address local issues to enrich peoples' lives in each of the regions where we do business. Social Awareness Giving Back to Society Enriching people's spirits and society since the founding The sustainable society that we aim for is one in which we have realized the Suntory Group's corporate philosophy of To create harmony with people and nature . We aim to enrich lives by delivering products and services of value to customers and society, while building long-lasting and mutually beneficial relationships with the people around us. We want to be a company that inspires and invigorates society, and so we thoughtfully engage in the arts & culture, science, sports, social welfare, and community activities relevant to the times. Such social activities of the Suntory Group are thought to also contribute to our business and sustainable growth of society. ＊While we always aim for success, we recognize the importance of the world around us. We are committed to building long-lasting, mutually beneficial relationships. 045 Philosophy on the Sustainability Themes Building mutually beneficial relationships with stakeholders and society through sharing success Suntory engages with the arts through a variety of endeavors. In 2019, the Suntory Foundation for the Arts, which manages museums and halls, celebrated its 50th anniversary, and the Suntory Foundation, which aims to contribute to academic and cultural development, celebrated its 40th anniversary. We also support the education and development of the next generation in the fields of music, art, as well as sports. Beyond talent development support, Suntory supports athletics through its own rugby and volleyball teams' participation in league games as well as through its support of para-sports through Suntory Challenged Sports Projects. In addition, we continue to conduct community service activities, including providing support to social welfare organizations and disaster affected areas. This all ties to our spirit of Giving Back to Society which has existed since our company founding, a representation of our unchanging values. Suntory Group Basic Policy on Social Activities The Suntory Group strives to actively contribute to communities in order to help realize the society where people can fullheartedly enjoy life. Social contribution is the corporate motto inherited by our founder's spirit Giving back to Society . We are aiming to realize the rich growth of lifestyle culture as well as a sustainable global society to fulfill our social responsibility worldwide while delivering the highest-quality products and services to consumers based on our corporate philosophy To Create Harmony with People and Nature . 1. Promote activities based on the standpoint of the next generation and actual situation worldwide together with our employees around the fields of arts and culture, sports, social welfare, and the natural environment. 2. Focus on a dialog with stakeholders and work to generate links and cooperation. 3. Support the wide-range of volunteer activities of employees. 046 Initiative Introduction Social contribution by the Suntory Group for helping prevent the spread of COVID-19 As COVID-19 spreads around the world, we have a responsibility as a corporate citizen to support society's efforts to overcome the difficulties faced globally. We are engaged in various efforts, always keeping our spirit of Giving Back to Society as our core. For example, we are providing alcohol distilled in Japan, the United States, Canada, and Europe to be used as disinfectant for medical institutions. We also are providing product and monetary donations to medical personnel and local communities around the world. Reopening of the Suntory Museum of Art after remodeling Suntory is engaged in various art and culture contribution activities with the desire to color and enrich people's lives, and to contribute to the creation of a rich culture. Keizo Saji, the second President of Suntory, quickly recognized the importance of spiritual richness and promoted cultural activities as Japan entered its high-growth period. The Suntory Museum of Art was thus founded in 1961, and it has been guided by the theme Art in Life since its founding. Its current collection encompasses over 3,000 works of painting, lacquer ware, pottery, glass, and textile, including one national treasure and 15 important cultural properties. The Museum moved to the Tokyo Midtown in Roppongi in March 2007. Based on the museum message of Art Revised, Beauty Revealed , we promote the popularization and development of art-focusing on Japanese art-through larger and more diverse exhibitions with a total of approximately 3,000 items that include one National Treasure and 15 Important Cultural Properties. Under the supervision of architect Kengo Kuma, we have recently remodeled the museum with the aim of making it a museum that is more accessible, more safe, more attractive and more comfortable for a diverse audience of patrons. We will continue to hold special exhibitions that will bring you a touch of excitement and enrich your heart and mind. 047 To Create Harmony To Create Harmony To Create Harmony To Create Harmony Corporate with Customers with Nature with Society with Employee Governance and Partners Sustainability Initiatives To Create Harmony with Customers and Partners Products and Services The Suntory Group values communication with customers and reflects their feedback widely in its corporate activities while also working to preserve and improve quality in all of its processes including planning and development of products and services, procurement of raw materials such as water, agricultural products and packaging materials, manufacturing, distribution, provision of goods and services based on the Suntory Quality Policy of All for the Quality to continually provide products and services able to earn the trust and satisfaction of customers. In addition, we are actively engaged in tackling alcohol-related problems as a global multi-faceted food and beverage company. Quality Customer relations Procurement ARP Voluntary Declaration Promotion of Group Quality Assurance from of Consumer Orientation Quality Management a Customer Perspective in All Processes Under the corporate mission of“To We a re working to cons tr uc t create harmony with people and and promote a quality assurance Grounded in the Suntor y Group nature,”we will offer products and system throughout the entire Quality Policy, our employees are services that pursue highest quality Group both in Japan and overseas. cont inua lly wor king on qua lit y and enrich the lifestyles of people a ssurance ac tivities in all of our around the world and contribute processes, from product planning in realizing a sustainable natural and development to material environment. procurement, manufac turing, distribution, sales, and services. Appropriate Communicating with Nurturing Employees Information Disclosure Customers that are Consumer Oriented We provide information on quality We listen to the voice of customers a ssurance and it s ac tivities in a n d r e s p o n d t o t h e m t i m e l y, In o rd e r t o p ro m o t e co ns um e r accurate and easy to understand accurately, and sincerely. oriented management, we conduct way for the consumers to ensure These voices are reflec ted in enlightenment activities to make their peace of mind and trust. business ac tivities to develop employees consumer oriented. and improve better products and services. 048 Just and Fair Promoting Distribution Sustainable Procurement Transactions Considering Safety We a re p ro m o t in g S us t a in a b l e We ba se our relationships We are promoting environmental procurement with our business w i t h busine s s p a r t ne r s on jus t distribution that is safe and considers par tners to contribute to the evaluations and selection and fair the environment in cooperation with realization of a sustainable society. competitive opportunities. distribution affiliates. Reducing Harmful Measures for Healthy Drinking and Comfortable Lifestyles As a company dedicated to responsible ma nuf ac tur ing a nd As a company dedicated to sales of alcoholic beverages, we responsible ma nuf ac tur ing a nd play an active role in addressing sales of alcoholic beverages, we alcohol-related issues. play an active role in addressing alcohol-related issues. Sustainability Action Plan Target achieved: ●●● Achieved 70% or more: ●● Achieved less than 70%: ● ■We provide products and services that contribute to the safety, reliability, and healthy lifestyles of our customers first and foremost. Prioritized Mid-Term Targets Results in FY2019 FY2020 Action Plan Evaluation items ・Identif y quality issues from ・Identified quality issues customer feedback and from customer feedback and improved quality. improved quality. ・Continue food bank ・Continued food bank activities. activities. ・Participated in GFSI activities to ・Participate in GFSI activities promote food safety. to promote food safety. Quality assurance ・Conducted strategic quality ・Conduct strategic quality Gain a higher level of assurance training. assurance training. based on the ●●● trust from customers customer's ・Reviewed quality assurance ・Review quality assurance perspective initiatives for customers and initiatives for customers and customer service personnel as customer service personnel well as quality support tools to as well as quality support bring awareness to information, tools to bring awareness and created new information to information, and create support tools that are used very new information support frequently. tools that are used very frequently. 049 ・Continue comprehensive safety ・Promoted comprehensive safety and reliability check activities and reliability check activities and promote these activities throughout the group. throughout the group. ・Engaged in direct ・Engage in direct communication with overseas communication with overseas Group companies to deepen Group companies to further their understanding about promote understanding about Suntory MONOZUKURI Values Suntory MONOZUKURI Values (SMV). (SMV) and activities based on ・Expanded activities based SMV. on SMV at overseas Group ・Continue to expand activities companies. at overseas Group companies Quality Enhance group-wide assurance ・Implemented the Group Quality in accordance with the Group quality assurance based on the Management System and Quality Management System ●● system and create customer's activities based on the quality and quality standards. perspective synergy standards in overseas Group ・Share legal and risk companies. information globally in a timely ・Shared legal and risk manner with overseas Group information globally in a timely companies and further enhance manner with overseas Group systems that can respond to companies this information from an early ・Provided technical support to stage. resolve quality issues at Group ・Put in place technical support companies worldwide. measures tailored to the ・Ensured rainwater and circumstances at each company biological safety quality and promote activities to standards. reduce quality risks throughout the Group. ・Continuous ac tivit y to improve qualit y of response ・Implemented external of the Customer Center assessment of telephone and email support and enhanced ・Promote PDC A ac tivities Deepen the PDCA cycle improvement ba sed on result s of relationships activities evaluation of qualit y of Communication with customers response by ex ternal review ・Held training on product with by listening to ・Hold training and ●●● customers knowledge for staff of the customers' opinions workshops on produc t Customer Center to improve more broadly and knowledge for staf f of the their skills deeply than before Customer Center to improve ・Conducted customer service their skills leader activities primarily at sales sites ・Improve provision of information through Customer Center website. ・Implemented prior a ssessment ac tivities from customer perspective in each process in merchandising ・Enhanced VOC ac tivities Expand system that utilize customer ・Implement VOC activities in for improving Reflection feedback in management and the entire value chain products and of customer merchandising (implement services based on ・Improve products and services feedback in regular VOC meeting with ●●● consumer feedback utilizing customer feedback corporate depar tment s involved in activities and penetrate ・Continue to conduct seminars produc t development) throughout the designed for all employees entire group globally ・Deepened understanding about customers in ever y employee and engaged in awareness raising ac tivities to cultivate a customeroriented mindset. 050 ■Alcohol Related Problems Prioritized Mid-Term Targets Results in FY2019 FY2020 Action Plan Evaluation items ・F u r t h e r e n h a n c e t h e ・Implemented No Binge DRINK SM ART plat form Drinking! Campaign and at companies and AwarenessPopularize and STOP! Underage Drinking u n i ve r s i t i e s raising Campaign raise awareness initiatives ・I n t r o d u c e a n a l c o h o l of responsible ・Launched the employee Drink ●●● promoting reduc tion program for responsible drinking among Smart Ambassador program h e a v y d r i n ke r s drinking consumers ・Continued conducting ・F u r t h e r e n h a n c e t h e employee alcohol tolerance employee Drink Smar t tests Amba ssador program Leading the ・T h o r o u g h l y c o m p l i e d w i t h industr y, i n d u s t r y a n d vo l u n t a r y ・Suppor t amendment s a s an Pro-active implement internal s t andards industr y to the Ba sic Plan approaches industr y for Promotion of Mea sures ・St r e n g t h e n e d s u p p o r t o f to improve commitment s for against Alcohol-related warning and other labeling Harm ●●● industrythe World Health wide on digit al media Organization's ・Streng then industr y initiatives global strateg y to ・P r o v i d e d s u p p o r t t o and voluntar y internal reduce harmful change the definition of a standards uses of alcohol minor ■Promoting sustainability activities in the supply chain Prioritized Mid-Term Targets Results in FY2019 FY2020 Action Plan Evaluation items ・Promote a transition to ・Continue to ・Selected primary business the Sedex information select and partners and conducted platform from conventional improve business sustainability questionnaires. Sustainability questionnaires partners through Also provided explanations as a means to understand Promoting questionnaires, about procedures for answering the sustainability activities sustainability audits and other questionnaires through of our business partners. activities in activities and to partner briefings and reduced (Conventional questionnaires raw material utilize PDCA with inconsistencies in these were conducted for business ●●● procurement procedures. partners who are not Sedex the goal of realizing and members) sustainable ・Joined Sedex distribution procurement. ・Conduct risk assessment ・Strengthened measures through ・Improve safety in the Safety Committee to through Sedex assessment the distribution promote safety coordinated tools system with distribution affiliates ・Improve and continue promoting safety in logistics 051 To Create Harmony To Create Harmony To Create Harmony To Create Harmony Corporate with Customers with Nature with Society with Employee Governance and Partners To Create Harmony with Customers and Partners: Products and Services Voluntary Declaration toward Consumer Orientation April 2017 Takeshi Niinami President, and Chief Executive Officer, Member of the Board, Representative Director, Suntory Holdings Ltd. ■Philosophy Under the corporate mission of tTo create harmony with people and nature,”we will offer products and services that pursue highest quality and enrich the lifestyles of people around the world and contribute in realizing a sustainable natural environment. We strive to be a Growing for Good company that is a good corporate citizen and trusted by the customers following this corporate mission. ■Initiative Policies (1) We will offer products and services that create harmony with the customers The Suntory Group values bilateral communication with customers based on the customer satisfaction first mentality. We respond sincerely to the opinions and requests that we receive from the customers. We are strengthening initiatives that connect to developing and improving better products and services. (2) We will pursue safety and reliability from customers' standpoint Grounded in the Suntory Group All for the Quality Policy, we will continually work to maintain and improve quality in all of our processes, from planning and development of products and services to material procurement such as water, agricultural products and packaging to manufacture, distribution, sales, and services. We strive to improve the quality of our product and services while preventing quality risks through the Quality Assurance Committee which promotes quality management in the entire Group. (3) We will utilize customer feedback in our business activities We share the invaluable information and opinions received from our customers quickly throughout the Group to reflect that feedback in our corporate activities and the actions of our employees from improving products and services to strengthening risk management. (4) We will strive to provide information to the customers We are promoting accurate indicators and easy to understand expressions for the labeling of our products, promotional materials and advertisements. We also work to enhance information on our websites for customers themselves to search for online in addition to the communication received through the Customer Center such as telephone calls, letters, and e-mails. We will offer information about quality in an easy to understand manner for the customers. (5) We will nurture corporate culture and awareness take action from the viewpoint of customers The Suntory Group will continue its Customer Satisfaction Cultivation Activities in our attempt to nurture a corporate culture in which all of our employees keep the viewpoint of customers in mind in their work. We hold training programs for all employees, including those in divisions that have few opportunities to hear the views expressed directly by our customers. 052 To Create Harmony To Create Harmony To Create Harmony To Create Harmony Corporate with Customers with Nature with Society with Employee Governance and Partners To Create Harmony with Customers and Partners: Products and Services Promotion of Group Quality Management We are working to construct and promote a quality management system throughout the entire Group both in Japan and overseas. Our Philosophy Underpins Quality Assurance The Suntory Group has always striven to better the quality of its products and services with a customer first approach since its founding. Every employee always endeavors to sustain and improve quality according to the Suntory Quality Policy of All for the Quality , which clarifies our approach to quality, to earn even greater trust from customers. Promotion of Quality Management Following the acceleration of its own global development and expansion into new fields of business, the Suntory Group has been enhancing its Quality Management Systems as part of its Group Governance. We installed the Quality Assurance Committee at Suntory Holdings Limited to promote quality management throughout the entire Group. This committee identifies quality risks and prevents trouble before it occurs in priority issues across the organization based on the Group quality strategy. The Chief Quality Officer (CQO) of Suntory Holdings Ltd. plays a vital role in this process by strengthening the quality management capacities through holding meetings on product quality with each Group company. 053 Comprehensively Identifying and Minimizing Potential Risks We are continuing to move ahead with our efforts to carefully identify and minimize risks from serious crises such as violations of law, negative health impacts, and quality hazards, as well as potential risks that have not yet manifested themselves. Since 2006, we have been holding Weekly Risk Review Meetings to share internal and external quality risks that were identified during the week, and discuss the countermeasures for management and executive personnel from Production Research and other divisions. We also monitor changes in potential risks. Quality Assurance Activities at Group Restaurants At each Group restaurant, we carr y out thorough control regarding kitchen equipment, ingredient, food allergy, food labeling and so on. Inspection of kitchen equipment ■Topics Sharing and Expanding the Common Suntory MONOZUKURI Values (SMV) of the Suntory Group, nurtured since the foundation of the company We believe that it is our duty to continually deliver high quality products with new value, safety and reliability, able to bring joy to consumers worldwide. Thus, we are committed to producing high-quality, safe and reliable products that delight consumers across the globe. This promise is shared within the group through the Suntory's MONOZUKURI Manufacturing Values and Code of Conduct, which we have held dear and consistently delivered on since our founding. Sharing and expanding SMV in New Zealand 054 To Create Harmony To Create Harmony To Create Harmony To Create Harmony Corporate with Customers with Nature with Society with Employee Governance and Partners To Create Harmony with Customers and Partners: Products and Services Quality Assurance from a Customer Perspective in All Processes Grounded in the Suntory Group Quality Policy, our employees are continually working to maintain and improve quality in all of our processes, from product planning and development to material procurement, manufacturing, distribution, sales, and services. Assuring Quality in All Processes 055 To Create Harmony To Create Harmony To Create Harmony To Create Harmony Corporate with Customers with Nature with Society with Employee Governance and Partners To Create Harmony with Customers and Partners: Products and Services Appropriate Information Disclosure The Suntory Group believes information should be available in an accurate and easy to understand way for the customers to ensure customers’peace of mind and trust in the products and services we provide. In doing so, information on quality assurance and related activities that we are engaged in should be disseminated through websites and other means. Realizing Easy to Understand and Accurate Product Labeling In addition, we promote the display of accurate information that is easy to understand through Quality Assurance Division checking and building a system to secure compliance and validity, collaborating with the related divisions in charge of development and production of each Group company. ■Examples of Labeling on Products Example of display to prevent drinking alcohol by mistake We display the alcohol logo on products so that low alcohol drinks such as Chu-Hi are not mistaken for soft drinks. In addition, Contains Alcohol is written on the lid of the can with Alcohol written in braille on our main products. Labeling examples to warn pregnant and nursing mothers We also display, Drinking while pregnant or breastfeeding may be harmful to the development of unborn babies or infants on products in order to evoke caution about alcohol in pregnant and nursing mothers. Labeling to warn pregnant and nursing mothers Allergenic Labeling Suntory has investigated raw materials and has confirmed whether or not they need to be indicated on products as allergenic. Soft drinks are not only part of the 7 items that require labeling by food labeling laws but also are included in the 20 items recommended for labeling on products. Alcoholic products are exempt from allergenic labeling, but we label low-alcohol drinks such as beers and Chu-Hi allergenic information based on our own rules and regulations. Month/year labeling for Best by dates The best by dates of soft drinks have generally included the day, month and year up until now, but the Suntory Group has worked to display only the month and year (indicated in Chinese characters) for products with best by dates that are longer than one year to reduce the environment burden even slightly with inventory management and other measures while also providing customers with easy-to-understand information. The month and year best by dates started to be displayed on the 2 Suntory Minami-Alps Tennensui plastic bottles in 2013, and then gradually expanded to can coffee and tea drinks. 056 Introduction of Safety and Reliability Initiatives We are introducing various initiatives on Suntor y’ s Commitment to Safety and Reliability website to accurately communicate our pursuit of safety and reliability to our customers. The information display is customized for both desktop computers and smartphones; furthermore, we provide information with consideration for our overseas customers. Suntory Group's Quality Initiatives Website As the business activities of the Suntory Group expand globally, we have been engaging in initiatives to improve information disclosure by advancing the design of global quality websites so that our earnest approach and activities toward quality that we have striven for in Japan up until now can be understood by our overseas customers. In the future, we will continue to provide information about safety and reliability so that customers may evaluate the activities of the Suntory Group. Voluntary Recalls While we do our best to assure quality, we also disclose information appropriately and promptly when problems do arise. During the period from January 2019 until December 2019, one voluntary product recall was issued via a news release in newspapers. There were no recalls due to legal violation. During the same period, there was one instance of information labeling for products and services which violated appropriate regulations and our internal standards. 057 To Create Harmony To Create Harmony To Create Harmony To Create Harmony Corporate with Customers with Nature with Society with Employee Governance and Partners To Create Harmony with Customers and Partners: Products and Services Communicating with Customers Since our founding, we have been prioritizing customer satisfaction. We value regular communication with the customers and reflect their feedback in our corporate activities. Realizing Customer Satisfaction The Suntory Group values two-way communication with the customers in the belief it has held since its founding that customer satisfaction should be given top priority. In 1976, we opened the Consumer Department to handle inquiries from customer. The office now operates as the Consumer of Suntory Communications Limited. We respond sincerely to the opinions and requests that we receive from the customers based on the Voluntary Declaration of Consumer Orientation. We are strengthening initiatives to more widely reflect this feedback in our corporate activities, including improvement and development of better products and services. ■Basic Policy on Customer Satisfaction and Course of Action We stipulated the Basic Policy on Customer Satisfaction in 1999 in order for each and every one of our employees to take action while always recognizing the goal of providing customer satisfaction. We formulated the Course of Action for our Customer Center in 2002 to be put into comprehensive practice by all of the Customer Center staff. Customer Center Basic Policy on Customer Satisfaction We strive to realize, maintain and improve customer satisfaction in every way through various activities to fulfill the responsibility as a member of the society. We value communication with the customers and provide safe and reliable products and services that bring joy to the customer and gain their trust, while providing information and implementing customer feedback to our business activities. Course of Action for Customer Center 1. We will respond to customer inquiries and complaints in a timely, accurate and sincere manner while being fair and just. 2. We will proactively provide reliable information that brings satisfaction to the customer. 3. We will incorporate feedback and requests of the society in the company. 4. We will comply with laws and our own standards to protect the rights of the customer. 058 ■Customer Response Standard Suntory Holdings Ltd. and 17 Group companies* have formulated a Course of Action that follow ISO10002 (JIS Q 10002) as a working mindset for acting according to the basic policy and course of action. We recognize the right of customers to make inquiries and complaints in these regulations, which are clarifying the active efforts and responsibility to respond to customers with the objective of maintaining and improving customer satisfaction through our corporate activities. In addition, we will formulate and thoroughly familiarize employees with standards and procedures based on this course of action. * Suntory Beverage & Food Ltd., Suntory Foods Ltd., Suntory Beverage Solution Ltd., Suntory Foods Okinawa Ltd., Suntory Products Ltd., Suntory Spirits Ltd., Suntory Beer Ltd., Suntory Liquors Ltd., Okinawa Suntory Ltd., Suntory Wine International Ltd., Suntory MONOZUKURI Expert Ltd., Suntory Communications Limited, Suntory Business System Limited, Suntory Business Expert Ltd., Suntory Global Innovation Center Ltd., Suntory Corporate Business Ltd. and Sunlive Co., Ltd., Suntory Beer, Wine & Spirits Japan Limited ■CREDO (SUNTORY MIND for Customer Service) The CREDO (SUNTORY MIND for Customer Ser vice) was formulated as a doctrine for customer service in 2013 to embed the basic policies and course for action in the hearts of each and every employee in their daily tasks. We created this CREDO with all the staff at the Customer Relations Division in an effort to cultivate a climate that nurtures activities able to satisfy the customer. Responding, Sharing and Utilizing Customer Feedback Our Customer Center uses a proprietary information search system to respond quickly and accurately to customers so that those who make inquiries, etc. are not left waiting. By recording the result of the responses when inquiries are received thought inputting the information in our core information management system, valuable information from the customers is shared immediately with relevant departments to enhance quality, improve risk management, etc. We periodically share the feedback we receive from the customers with relevant departments to strengthen our VOC activities*1 that reflect this feedback in our corporate activities and employees course for action, which includes improving our products and services and enhancing our provision of information. *1 VOC (Voice of Customer) activities: Activity to reflect customer feedback in management policy. ■Flow of Consumer information 059 ■Customer voices to our customer center (Results of 2019: Approx. 87,000 ) *1 Complaints: Includes expressions of dissatisfaction by customers about products or corporate activities * 2 Inquiries and feedback: Includes a wide range of questions and opinions expressed by customers other than complaints 93% of the Customers Will Continue to Use Our Products We send a Voice Card (survey about services) to inquire about the satisfaction of the customers who sent us complaints, after the matters of complaint were resolved. The received opinions are directed to the actual person that addressed the issue in question and also shared to the entire company through the Intranet for further improving the response to similar cases in the future. 93% of the customers who filled out the Voice Card told us they will continue to use our products in the future (2019 results). ■Making Use of Customer Opinions We are aiming to improve quality, product development and the provision of information through incorporating opinions and requests from the customers. Having a point of view of the customers is crucial in developing products that are safe and easy to use. We carefully listen to the feedback of the customers, and aim to provide kinder, gentler products to all people. We listen to customer feedback carefully and use it to continuously improve our products and services. Customer feedback regarding products of other companies and products in other categories are shared with the development division to stimulate new findings from a wider perspective and make prior checks from the customer’ s point of view. <Examples Utilizing Feedback in Products> Improving the Labeling on Our Mixer Kotowari Sakaba Lemon Sour no Moto Since its initial release in February 2018, we have received inquiries from customers about how to consume the product who had a difficult time understanding what soda in soda mixer meant. Therefore, during product redesign from December of the same year, we changed the labeling from Soda to Carbonated Water (the Japanese equivalent of carbonated water is to understand than soda in Japanese) so that customers who purchase it for the first time can better understand the recommended way to consume it. Improved the Removal Indication on Labels Found on Plastic Wine Bottle Produced in Japan to Make it Easier to Identify We received feedback from customers who said that it was difficult to find where to peel the label found on our plastic wine bottles produced in Japan. Therefore, from September 2018 we made it so that the indication that marks where to peel the label is easy to identify, first making changes to labels on products including Delicious Wine without Antioxidation Agents and Delica Maison. 060 Expanding communication outlets: Use of online and SNS tools We work to enhance information on the Customer Center homepage leveraging videos and illustrations for customers who prefer to search for information online, in addition to the communication via telephone calls, letters, and e-mails. English inquiry form is also available to respond to inquiries from overseas customers. In addition, we have also established a dedicated SNS account to actively support feedback from the customers. Suntory Customer Center Suntory Customer Center Suntory Customer Support Account homepage (PC Site) homepage (Smartphone Site) Spreading the Word About Our Consumer Oriented Initiatives Throughout Society The Suntory Group actively spreads information about its Consumer oriented management philosophy and initiatives thought various media and activities. ■ Voluntary Declaration of Consumer Orientation and Voluntary Declaration of Consumer Orientation Activity Report In April 2017, we revised our customer oriented philosophy and initiative policies passed down since the founding of Suntory to draw up and release Voluntary Declaration of Consumer orientation. The specific activities that we have undertaken based on the declaration are reported to society in the Voluntary Declaration of Consumer Orientation Activity Report.We were awarded the Commissioner award in January 2020 for the 2019 Award for good practices of consumer-oriented management hosted by the Consumer Affairs Agency. As a company that discloses its Voluntary Declaration of Consumer Orientation, we have provided the declaration and content of activities on the Customer Affairs Agency website. ■Workshops for University Students A workshop for learning about Consumer orientation is held annually for approximately 50 university students who will be working in the near future. Through the work of learning about Suntory's Consumer oriented spirit and experiencing product development from a Consumer perspective, we are creating opportunities for each individual to think about being customer orientation and incorporating this mindset in work activities. Discussion on product ideas Presentation of new product ideas by each group 061 To Create Harmony To Create Harmony To Create Harmony To Create Harmony Corporate with Customers with Nature with Society with Employee Governance and Partners To Create Harmony with Customers and Partners: Products and Services Nurturing Employees that are Consumer Oriented In order to promote Consumer oriented management, we conduct enlightenment activities to make employees Consumer oriented. Continuing to Meet Consumers Expectations Each of our employees is putting their strength into Consumer Oriented Enlightenment Activities while nurturing work ethics for the purpose of becoming a company employee able to deliver products and services that surpass Consumer expectations by deepening our grasp of the changing awareness and interests of Consumers. ■Overview of Consumer Oriented Enlightenment Activities * VOC：Voice of Customer 062 ■Consumer Oriented Behavior Promotion (Nurturing of Work Ethics) Enlightenment Seminars for Suntory Group Employees We hold the Consumer Oriented Brush-up Seminar annually for all employees. Each employee listens to complaints and words of encouragement from Consumers and is presented with examples of Consumers oriented activities performed in various actual work environments internally to deepen a Consumer oriented mentality and encourage action. In addition, seminars at each Group company nurture a Consumer oriented mindset and action in all of the activities at the Suntory Group. Each department hold discussion on who are our customers and What can we do through consumer oriented spirit at the Consumer Oriented Spirit Month every May. Furthermore, each employee writes down what they can do individually in the My Voluntary Declaration toward Consumer Orientation Card. Consumer Oriented Brush-up Seminar Massage from management Showcases consumer oriented activities of colleagues Each employee declare their consumer oriented activities with My Voluntary Declaration toward Consumer Orientation Card Top management listening to customer voice 063 Consumer Month For Enhancing Suntory's Consumer Oriented Spirit Since 2018, we have designated May as the Month for Enhancing Suntory's Consumer Oriented Spirit, emulating Consumer Month established by the Consumer Affairs Agency. To provide opportunities to again think about what all employees can do for our customers, in 2019 we sent messages from management throughout the company, put up awareness raising posters at all our location (approximately 50 locations), and held internal lectures by inviting external lecturers. In addition, we held discussions at the department level about being oriented with Consumers with approximately 700 departments and 5,500 employees participating. In-house lecture given by Poster designed to encourage employees outside lecturer to possess a Consumer oriented spirit Placing Employees in Charge of Consumer Oriented Spirit Promotion in Locations Where Business Takes Place In 2018, Suntory began appointing Customer Service Leaders entrusted with the main role to further penetrate and grasp Consumer oriented business practices around the many sales sites which are one of the main contact points with customers. In 2019, we have been promoting Consumer oriented behavior in each department through efforts including starting to place some Consumer Oriented Ambassadors also in locations other than sales officers. Participants reviewing activity Session with management goals and entire year 064 ■Human Resources Development at Every Level As a part of our human resources development program Suntory University, we carry out training in line with the career path of each employee. At first, during new employee training, participants will learn about the Suntory Group's Consumer oriented spirit that has been continuously passed down since its foundation. Mid-level employees spend a day answering phones at our customer center to discover first-hand specific things they can use in their own work to become more Consumer oriented by directly interacting with customers. Employees who are being promoted to manager are practically taught important Consumer oriented decision-making techniques such as through group discussions based on case studies. ■Improving Opportunities for Employees to Listen to Customers We engage in activities to strengthen opportunities to share customer feedback with employees, even those who rarely interact with customers directly. Transmission of Information via Intranet and Email We share, via intranet and email, opinions and requests received from customers which are sent out on a weekly and monthly basis so that all employees will look at customer feedback on our products and corporate activities to influence their own work and actions.It also includes opinions and thoughts of the employees about customer feedback. Opinions of other employees are offered to share various viewpoints through exchanging opinions with each other. Harmonics Report provided to employees via our intranet 065 To Create Harmony To Create Harmony To Create Harmony To Create Harmony Corporate with Customers with Nature with Society with Employee Governance and Partners To Create Harmony with Customers and Partners: Products and Services Sustainable Procurementt In the domestic business of the Suntory Group are promoting sustainable procurement with our business partners to contribute to the realization of a sustainable society as a company that has signed the United Nations Global Compact. Basic policy on sustainable procurement In order to offer our customers high-quality products and services, at the Suntory Group we believe it is crucial to promote sustainability throughout our entire supply chain. This means we need to give due consideration to environment and society, as well as to safety and reliability. In 2011, in order to promote sustainability, we established the Suntory Group's Basic Policy on the Sustainable Supply Chain that consists of six main pillars legal compliance, human rights and labor standards, quality, environment, information security, and the coexistence with society that address global issues such as child labor, forced labor, freedom of association and collective bargaining, working hours, the guarantee of minimum wages, etc. In order to promote sustainability, we are raising awareness and deepening understanding with our business partners. The Suntory Group's Basic Policy on Supply Chain Sustainability (Established 2011) In order to provide high-quality products and services safely and reliably based on our corporate philosophy of To Create Harmony with People and Nature and our Code of Business Ethics, the Suntory Group engages in fair business practices and, in collaboration with supply chain business partners, promotes procurement activities that take social responsibility into consideration, mindful of such issues as human rights, labor standards, and the environment. We build good partnerships with our business partners and contribute toward realizing a truly affluent and sustainable society. 1. Legal Compliance and Respect for International Standards of Conduct We will promote fair and equitable procurement activities that comply with each country's laws and respect international standards of conduct. 2. Consideration for Human Rights, Labor, and Safety and Health We will promote supply chain CSR initiatives that respect basic human rights and are mindful of labor conditions and safety and health. 3. Guaranteeing Quality and Safety Aligned with the Suntory Group Quality Policy, we will promote supply chain CSR initiatives that seek to guarantee a high level of quality and safety based on the optimal standards for quality, cost, and supply. 4. Consideration for the Global Environment Aligned with the Basic Principles of Suntory Group's Environmental Policy, we will promote procurement activities mindful of the global environment. 5. Preservation of Information Security Confidential information regarding procurement dealings and personal information will be strictly controlled. 6.Coexistence with Society We will promote social contribution initiatives directed toward coexisting within society. 066 ■Promoting Sustainability Activities Throughout the Supply Chain Promotion Organization We have newly established Global Procurement Development Department in April 2019 to promote sustainable procurement throughout the Group and have been conducting optimum and sustainable procurement across the globe. We also hold a Global Procurement Meeting with our overseas Group companies to discuss overall strategy regarding sustainable procurement and promote initiatives on each company. Establishing Supplier Guidelines We established the Suntory Group Supplier Guidelines based on the Basic Policy on the Sustainable Supply Chain in June 2017 to contribute to the realization of a sustainable society while also accelerating sustainable procurement within the Suntory Group. These guidelines put in place specific compliance items required in each field from human rights and legal compliance to the environment for suppliers of Suntory in Japan and overseas to confirm the same ethical values are shared between the Suntory Group and its suppliers. As for our main suppliers, we share these guidelines also during our annual supplier conference. Monitoring of Suppliers We conduct a screening based on the Basic Policy on the Sustainable Supply Chain for all new suppliers. In addition, in June 2019 we joined Sedex, the world's largest supplier ethical information sharing platform, and we are engaging our suppliers to also join Sedex and share with us ESG information, including answering the SAQ*. As of May 2020, 713 manufacturing facilities of our suppliers globally have been linked to Suntory, covering 70% of our purchase in monetary amount. From now on, we will conduct risk assessment by leveraging Sedex assessment tool based on the results of SAQ. We also conduct a self-assessment questionnaire related to sustainability every year targeting main suppliers of Purchasing Department, Packaging Material Department, and Distribution Department that have not joined Sedex. In 2020's questionnaire (19 items/each rated on the scale from zero to three), we were able to confirm the diligent efforts in sustainability of each company with the Purchasing Department at a 2.92 rating, the Packaging Department at a 2.91 rating, and the Distribution Department at a 2.83 rating in the average company answers. * SAQ: Self Assessment Questionnaire Auditing and Monitoring Initiatives The Suntory Group has been inviting and received briefings from overseas suppliers in Japan about human rights, such as child labor and forced labor, since 2014. We also held briefings with producers of malt and hops, which are the main ingredients for beer, in 2014 as well as with Chinese oolong tea production factories in 2015 and monitored five oolong tea leaf companies in 2016. No issues were found on these assessments. Beam Suntory is committed to doing business the right way everywhere we operate. That's why we conduct regular third-party audits of our key suppliers to verify conformance with our Code of Conduct and Ethics. 067 Contract Farms to promote High-quality and Stable Supply The Suntory Group procures a portion of its coffee beans, which are a vital ingredient for coffee, from the Fazenda Bau Farm, which is a specialty coffee farm in Minas Gerais, Brazil, as we aim for the highest quality and stable supply of cof fee beans. Fazenda Bau has acquired international certifications from organizations that include the Rainforest Alliance*1 and UTZ * 2, and they are highly praised for their thorough quality management and workplace environment. Fazenda Bau has been engaging in a wide range of activities to promote sustainability, turning their attention to labor practices and the labor environment, conducting efforts such as courses on the health and safety of employees, as well as courses about motivation and human relationships in the workplace, and morning gymnastics. Environmental conservation activities such as separating trash and comprehensive management of the water intake as well as tree planting initiatives show their awareness regarding their impact on the environment. In addition, the Fazenda Bau have been engaging in a support project at a neighboring school since 2011 with the purpose of contributing to the local community. Radio exercises Separating Trash Education at School * 1 Rainforest Alliance: International non-profit organization established with purpose of preserving the global environment through protecting the rainforests in 1987. * 2 UTZ: International certification program for sustainable agriculture. Certification is only give to those that fulfill all standards in appropriate farming practices and farm maintenance, safe and healthy labor conditions, abolition of child labor, etc. The Suntory Group promotes sustainability throughout the supply chain in order to bring safe and reliable products to customers now and into the future. 068 ■Procurement Ratio by Supplier Region In the domestic business of the Suntory Group are purchasing raw materials from the suppliers in the regions below. We promote the sustainability of raw materials in cooperation with our suppliers. Improving Cooperation with Business Partners The Suntory Group strives to promote CSR procurement together with all of its business partners in the supply chain. We are promoting better awareness and support so that the necessity of sustainability initiatives is understood through education for our company representatives and policy briefings and questionnaires for our ingredient suppliers, manufacturing outsources, logistic affiliates, and other primary business partners. In addition, Suntory Group participates in the Consumer Goods Forum Japan*, which promotes distribution networks of consumer goods across the industry, to reduce the environmental impact of the Suntory supply chain. * The Consumer Goods Forum Japan is an organization primarily made up of companies in the consumer goods distribution industry that engages in cooperative manufacturing, distribution and sales efforts to address common challenges in non-competitive industries in Japan. Promoting Green Procurement Suntory Group has established Suntory Group Green Procurement Standard (revised 2011) based on the Suntory Group's Basic Policy on Supply Chain Sustainability and promotes procurement activities to lower environmental impact in corporation with each business partner. Currently 80% of the plants we have transactions with have acquired International Standard ISO14001 and environmental responsiveness are improving. Also, Packaging Material Development Department is implementing a comprehensive evaluation of green procurement based on business partner evaluation standards in the Green Procurement Guideline to determine that environmental initiatives are advancing. 069 To Create Harmony To Create Harmony To Create Harmony To Create Harmony Corporate with Customers with Nature with Society with Employee Governance and Partners To Create Harmony with Customers and Partners: Products and Services Just and Fair Transactions We base our relationship with raw material suppliers on just evaluations, selection and fair competitive opportunities. Rigorously Engaging in Fair and Equitable Business Practices with Suppliers In our dealings with suppliers, we provide each company with an opportunity for equitable competition in keeping with our Purchasing Control Regulations and our Business Partner Selection Standards, based on the Suntory Group’ s Basic Policy on Supply Chain Sustainability. At the same time, we fairly evaluate efforts regarding the quality and supply capabilities of the products and services, financial status, assured safety, environmental conservation, and social contribution of each company, when we select new suppliers or determine whether to continue business with our existing business partners. We consider our business partners as trusted partners who combine their strengths with ours in order to provide products and services that bring joy to our customers. ■Bookkeeping System that Corresponds to the Subcontract Act Suntory Group operates a bookkeeping system that corresponds to the Act against Delay in Payment of Subcontract Proceeds, Etc. to Subcontractors (Subcontract Act), enforced by the government of Japan. The system prevents troubles such as payments delay through displaying warning on the administrator screen when payment process is not carried out according to the information such as payment conditions entered at the ordering of raw materials or packaging. There was no transaction of raw material or packaging that violated the Subcontract Act in 2018.* * The number of business partners targeted by the subcontract Act is 48 for the Purchasing Department (about 13% of the transaction fee) as of December 2019 and 115 companies for the Packaging Material Development Department (about 12% of the transaction fee) as of December 2019. 070 To Create Harmony To Create Harmony To Create Harmony To Create Harmony Corporate with Customers with Nature with Society with Employee Governance and Partners To Create Harmony with Customers and Partners: Products and Services Promoting Distribution Considering Safety We are promoting environmental distribution that is safe and considers the environment in cooperation with distribution affiliates. Cooperating with Distribution Affiliates As of the end of 2019, the Safety Committee, which grew out of our connection to our distribution affiliates, to which we outsource the distribution of our products had 270 members from 79 companies. The Committee promotes initiatives in such areas as safety assurance, environmental concerns, and risk management. ■Enhancing Safety at Partner Companies The Safety Committee has published Five Principles for Distribution Safety. We ensure that all employees at each company are aware of these principles. Additionally, the committee’ s administrative bureau* visits the sites of each company and inspects the state of their safety measures. Five Principles for Distribution Safety Principle 1:Compliance with legal speed limits and defensive driving 2. Proper packaging of transported goods and prohibition of careless driving (sudden stopping, sudden acceleration) 3. Idling stop and use of tire stoppers Safety Committee poster 4. Wearing helmets and safety shoes, implementation of 5S (Sort, Straighten, Shine, Standardize, Sustain) 5. Observing signing, pointing and calling checks and safety check *The bureau is made up of managers and operators from the Distribution Service & Ordering Department of Suntory MONOZUKURI Expert Ltd., and the Safety Department of Suntory Logistics Ltd. ■The Safety Committee's Joint Activities Each year, we hold a Safety Promotion conference attended by representatives from 150 sites nationwide including storage facilities and transportation-related offices of distribution affiliates as well as the Suntory Group’ s distribution centers. The conference is used to promote safety at each company by sharing information on outstanding initiatives, providing thorough safety education through study groups and contests, and by presenting awards to safe drivers and sites. Safety Promotion conference Receiving an award at the Safety Discussion at the Safety Promotion conference Promotion Conference 071 Promoting Safety Management We are pursuing certifications under the Top Safety Site Program led by the Ministry of Land, Infrastructure, Transport and Tourism (MLIT). Our goal in doing this is to maintain a minimum standard in the safety management organizations of our distribution affiliates at all times and continually improve these systems. Certifications have been obtained by 81 out of the 82 dispatching and shipping sites operated by the Suntory Group's distribution affiliates (as of the end of 2019), for a certification rate of 99%. This greatly exceeds the average certification rate of 30.5% (according to a December 2019 Status of Certification by Top Safety Site Program (as of Monday, Japan Trucking Association survey) for the trucking industry as a whole. December 31, 2019) In 2008, we expanded the scope of certification from direct contractors to include seconda r y af f iliates , a nd we s t r ive to enha nce s af e t y management in dispatching and transport. Preparing for Disasters and Emergencies We have created a project with our distribution af filiates in order to respond to disasters and emergencies. The project includes drills for effectively utilizing the 171 emergency hotline and the mobile-phone-based Disaster Message Board. We have created an action plan for an earthquake with an epicenter directly below the Tokyo and Kinki metropolitan areas. This plan includes arranging for emergency shipments of mineral water Suntory Tennensui to affected areas from sites other than the ones that would normally serve them and designating alternative shipping sites when regular shipping sites are damaged. These are some of the common measures we share with our distribution affiliates. 072 To Create Harmony To Create Harmony To Create Harmony To Create Harmony Corporate with Customers with Nature with Society with Employee Governance and Partners To Create Harmony with Customers and Partners: Products and Services Reducing Harmful Drinking As a company dedicated to the responsible manufacturing and sale of alcoholic beverages, we play an active role in addressing the issues around alcohol-related harms. DRINK SMART approach by the Suntory Group Harmful use of alcohol can impact not only the individual's health, both physical and mental, but also harm to others including family, workplace and community through a variety of social issues. Reducing alcohol misuse is one of the global health targets established by the World Health Organization. In Japan, Ministry of Health, Labor and Welfare adopted the Basic Plan for Promotion of Measures against Alcohol-related Harm in 2016 to prevent and reduce alcohol-related harms, including alcohol use disorder, putting them as a national priority. Knowing the facts about alcohol and enjoying it responsibly helps people enjoy healthy and balanced lifestyles this is our DRINK SMART goal. Reducing harmful use of alcohol is an important issue for society, and the Suntory Group actively promotes responsible consumption of alcohol and raising awareness of the importance of drinking in moderation Drink Smart is the foundation of this principle. Responsible Consumption Suntory Group's Principle and Course of Action Basic Principle Suntor y Group strives to prevent misuse of alcohol and raise awareness of responsible consumption thus contributing to healthier lifestyles: 1.We recognize the intoxicating effects of alcohol and its potential for misuse, which can lead to various physical, mental and social issues, and we strive to prevent alcohol-related harms 2.We strive to create a culture of responsible consumption in which differences in physical constitution and conditions, as well as drinking styles or attitudes towards alcohol, are respected. We understand and respect that for some people, the best choice is not to consume alcohol. 3.We recognize that responsible consumption can support a well-balanced lifestyle and that it can play a positive role in social occasions; we strive to promote responsible consumption whenever alcohol is consumed. Course of Action 1.We are committed to responsible marketing, providing consumer information and responsible product innovation. 2.We actively cooperate in social activities, including but not limited to; -Eliminating underage drinking -Eliminating binge drinking -Eliminating drunk driving 3.We will comply with laws and industry standards. 073 Our Commitment to Address These Issues In 1976, Suntory Group formulated the Suntory Advertising Code, making it an industry leader in exercising self-regulation in its promotions and advertising related to alcoholic beverages. We subsequently established the ARS* Committee to address alcohol-related harms and the Global ARS Department. We focus on (1) responsible marketing, (2) promoting responsible consumption among our consumers, customers and our employees. *ARS:Alcohol Responsibility and Sustainability ■1.Practice responsible marketing Responsible Marketing: The Global ARS Department reviews all marketing activity for products containing alcohol prior to launch. We have a longestablished a process for product labeling, a rigorous marketing code, and we continually update these voluntary standards through involvement with industry associations. Continuous Enhancement of Marketing Standards (Industry / Internal) We support and continuously enhance self-regulatory marketing standards in partnership with the Council on Alcohol Consumption, as well as follow our own internal marketing code to correspond with societal trends. We introduced warnings for pregnant and nursing mothers in all communications beginning in 2010. We also ceased TV ads between 5:00 am and 6:00 pm. Based on the Alcohol Health Disorder Countermeasures Basic Law enacted in 2014, we are taking independent measures to prevent the abuse of alcohol such as setting the age of celebrities appearing in TV ads to 25 and older, and removing the sound effect of gulp when drinks go down the throat. 1.Promoting Non-alcoholic Drinks The Suntory Group is striving to promote lowand non-alcoholic beverages to respond to a broad range of consumer interests and occasions. We established the same internal marketing standards on these products as beverage alcohol products in order to ensure that all marketing activity is directed only to legal drinking age adults in each region. We will continue to introduce products to meet the needs of health-conscious consumers, including zero-calorie, sugarfree, and purine-free products. Suntory Group's Non-alcoholic Drinks All-Free Non-aru-kibun (Non-alcoholic Beer-like Beverage) (Non-Alcoholic Cocktails) 2.Warning Labels on Package All our beverage alcohol products carry health warning messages to pregnant and nursing women and warning messages to stop underage drinking, based on the voluntary standards established by the alcohol industry. We also put お酒 Beverage Alcohol symbols on beer and ready-to-drink beverages that are low in alcohol to prevent accidental consumption. 074 3.Establishing Age Verification Gates to Alcohol Brand Website Since 2015, we have used age gates to confirm visitors to our alcohol brand websites are at least 20 years of age, the legal drinking age in Japan. 4.Conducting Seminars for Brand Managers The Global ARS department conducts seminars for newly appointed brand managers twice a year to increase awareness of the voluntary standards the beverage alcohol industry has set, and Suntory's own marketing code. In the session, managers learn the discipline and practices of responsible marketing from product development to promotional activities with various case studies. ■2.Activities to raise awareness of responsible drinking Raising Awareness of Responsible Drinking among Employees As a member of a company that manufactures and sells alcoholic beverages, it is important to be aware of responsible drinking at all times. We clearly state in our employment regulation that any employee who drinks and drives during or outside the working hours will be dismissed under instruction. Alcohol Metabolism Intracompany Website Drink Smart Seminar Drink Smart Ambassadors Genetic Testing on Global ARS We conduct Drink Smart We offer alcohol We encourage our Every employee can access Seminars which discuss metabolism genetic employees to be a Drink information regarding the facts about alcohol, testing to all employees Smart Ambassador responsible consumption, including how individual for their consideration who conducts Drink as well as our voluntary differences, such as gender, and to deepen Smart Seminars for our standards, examples of height, weight and ethnicity understanding of customers and third responsible marketing, affect alcohol metabolism. responsible consumption. parties. and seminar tools. In addition, we also raise awareness of responsible consumption among employees through educational movies, e-learning, and moderation campaign posters. Raising Awareness of Responsible Consumption Among Consumers We are committed to providing customers and consumers with information about alcohol so that they can make informed choices about alcohol and consume in moderation. 075 Suntory receives multiple awards for its activities to raise awareness of responsible drinking Our programs to promote responsible consumption have been recognized by key industry groups including the Award for Excellence in Independent Advertising for our moderation advertising campaign. In 2018, we received the Company BtoC Website Award for Excellence at the 6th Web Grand Prix sponsored by the Web Advertising Bureau of the Japan Advertisers Association, Inc. for our DRINK SMART advertising on our website. In addition, we received the Newspaper Advertisement Award at the 38th Newspaper Advertising Prize event for our poster with ways to decline invitations to drink, and days to go without alcohol using soccer vocabulary and humorous illustrations. Responsible Consumption Campaigns by Suntory We have been On Suntory's website, we Raising awareness No Binge Drinking! advertising Drink in feature DRINK SMART about drinking in Campaign, collaborated Moderation in national to promote moderate moderation with with NGOs Council for newspapers since consumption for the humorous illustrations the Prevention of Binge 1986, to communicate healthier and well balanced and witty approach to Drinking. responsible consumption lifestyle by understanding decline invitations to through humor. the facts about alcohol and drink on non-drinking enjoying it responsibly. days advertisement. We publish a Family Guide In response to young To prevent drunk driving, we We conduct Drink Smart to Preventing Underage people's interests, we introduced a Designated Seminars to provide the Drinking for children and produced and distributed Driver Program a system facts about alcohol and their guardians. a comic book for university wherein at least one person individual differences, such We distribute these students who are at least per vehicle is designated as as how gender, height, booklets nationwide. We 20 years old to learn how not consuming alcohol at weight and ethnicity can also conduct seminars at to drink responsibly. We restaurants and other venues. affect of alcohol metabolism. elementary and junior high also conduct seminars at We run a strict program for We also released DRINK schools. universities. visitors to our distilleries and SMART MOVIE for other production sites. responsible drinking. 076 Responsible Drinking Initiatives by the Beverage Alcohol Producers Associations in Japan We engage in the STOP! We cooperate with the Railway station posters to We are providing Underage Drinking School Competition alert platform accidents information to prevent Campaign twice a to Prevent Underage by intoxicated passengers at-risk women from using year primarily on Drinking, which promotes collaboration with JR alcohol irresponsibly. public transportation school efforts to prevent West advertisements. underage drinking. We also have been putting health warning messages on our products, advertisement, and POP materials to prevent consumption of alcohol when pregnant. Global Initiatives to Reduce Alcohol Issues The World Health Organization (WHO) adopted the Global Strategy to Reduce Harmful Use of Alcohol in 2010. Reduction of harmful effects of alcohol is one of the goals of the action plan for NCD (non-communicable diseases/lifestyle-related diseases) prevention established in 2013 as well as one of the UN SDGs (Sustainable Development Goals) in the health field established in 2015, and it is positioned as one of the global problems that must be addressed through cooperation with national governments, specialists from public health organizations, and other related parties. The manufactures of alcohol beverages are regarded as important stakeholders in these efforts. The Suntory Group is participating in the IARD organization (http://www.iard.org/) that makes efforts to promote responsible drinking internationally to respond to these alcohol-related issues. Since 2013, we have been working to promote the Industry Commitment for Reducing Harmful Use of Alcohol which involves major alcohol beverage manufacturers from around the world. The progress of the Industry Commitment is published as a Progress Report after annual audits by an auditor. The Suntory Group has established a company section dedicated to reducing harmful use of alcohol, regularly holds Global ARS Committee meetings, and consolidates global marketing regulations under the mid-to-long-term vision in order to realize responsible marketing activities on a global level and raise awareness of responsible drinking. The Suntory Group Drink Smart  global program is expanding priorities such as preventing underage drinking and drunk driving, as well as raising awareness of drinking in moderation and consideration for people that choose not to drink, and promotes responsible decision making through its proprietary platform. 077 About the IARD The IARD (International Alliance for Responsible Drinking) is a non-profit organization headquartered in Washington D.C. in which 11 of the major alcoholic beverage manufacturers from around the world participate. Suntory Group has participated in the IARD since its establishment as Beam Suntory and has also been deeply involved in the formulation of the Industry Commitment for Reducing Harmful Use of Alcohol, an effort by the alcoholic beverage industry in response to the World Health Organization's Global Strategy to Reduce Harmful Use of Alcohol (adopted in 2010). The Industry Commitment for Reducing Harmful Use of Alcohol promoted five initiatives over a five-year period starting in 2013. (1)Reduction of alcohol consumption by minors (2)Development and strengthening of industry voluntary standards on expression of drinking (3)Responsible product development and disclosure of information to consumers (4)Drunk driving reduction (5)Strengthening of collaboration with the retail field Commitment related progress reports and evaluations are conducted by third parties and reported annually in the form of a progress report. Suntory Group's efforts in major markets including Japan and the United States have been reported and evaluated, including the distribution of educational materials for parents and children to prevent underage drinking in Japan and education programs for drunk driving offenders in conjunction with traffic courts in the United States. These efforts unique to Suntory as well as collaborative efforts with liquor associations in various countries have been highly praised. In addition, an IARD CEO meeting is held annually during which serious discussions take place on matters that the liquor industry should tackle over the medium-to-long term and on a global level. IARD-CEO meeting (2019) Progress Report Joint Decleration of digintal media (2018), Trend report of underage drinking (2019) Beam Suntory's Activities to Raise Awareness of Responsible Drinking 1) Reducing Drunk Driving DWI Courts Beam Suntory is a lead supporter of America's National Center for DWI Courts, designed to get hardcore offenders who are most likely to repeat the treatment they need in an evidence-based program. 2) Reducing High-risk Drinking in University Building Resilience in Campus Communities (BRICC) Coalition BRICC works to reduce high-risk drinking at individual, group, organization and community levels at the University of Louisville and University of Kentucky. 078 To Create Harmony To Create Harmony To Create Harmony To Create Harmony Corporate with Customers with Nature with Society with Employee Governance and Partners To Create Harmony with Customers and Partners: Products and Services Measures for Healthy and Comfortable Lifestyles The Suntory Group provides a range of products and services to support healthy and comfortable lifestyles. Contributing to Healthy Lifestyle through Products and Services The Suntory Group is helping our customers lead healthier and richer lives by offering products and services matched to their needs and preferences, ever mindful of their health. Suntory Beverage & Food sets Enrich our drinking-experiences to be more natural, healthy, convenient, and fulfilling, by leading the next drinks revolution as their vision. It offers Enjoyable Wellness to customers around the world utilizing expertise in development of natural and healthy products cultivated in Japan to contribute in a healthier lifestyle. Suntory Wellness started as a company that handles health related business for the Suntory Group. It will contribute the realization of Wellness Life -a life that is healthy, beautiful, and spiritually rich. ■Developing Food for Specified Health Uses Based on Research Suntory is selling the food for specified health uses (FOSHU*) that has a broad range of positive effects; Kuro Oolong Tea OTPP, which was developed based on research results to apply prevention of fat absorption in polymerized polyphenols of oolong tea characteristics, Sesame Barley Tea, which is suitable for people with high blood pressure, Pepsi Special, which prevents fat absorption, and Tokucha (FOSHU Iyemon), which is the world's first drink to clarify the lipolytic action of quercetin glycoside. In addition to contributing to the health of our customers with a variety of lineups such as Iyemon Plus, a ready-to-drink (RTD) product which has the ability to lower bad cholesterol (LDL), we place special emphasis on deliciousness and are researching how to make products both healthy and delicious. *Foods for Specified Health Uses Expanding our Lineup of Natural and Healthy Products For decades the expansion of the world beverage market has been driven by consumer demand for drinks, especially carbonated products, which contain large amounts of sugar. In recent years, there has been an accelerating shift in demand toward healthier and more natural drinks. Utilizing knowledge for developing sugar-free beverages such as tea and water and low-sugar beverages, knowledge cultivated for many years in Japan, we are developing new beverages such as goodmood in Indonesia and MayTea in France. Originally developed for the Indonesian market, we also launched goodmood in Thailand in 2019. In Europe, we are actively promoting sugarless products, especially in Lucozade and Ribena in Europe as well as Sparkling OH! and V in Oceania by Furcor Suntory. 079 ■Proposal of Healthier Lifestyle We launched 100 Year Life Project last fall in Japan with the hope of being a company that supports people to live a healthy, optimistic, and be themselves. We are also promoting joint research with external dedicated agencies, development and strengthening product portfolio of beverages that address lifestyle diseases, offering programs to improve lifestyle habits, and other initiatives. In Europe, we published Moving on Health and Wellbeing report and are promoting initiatives such as promoting exercise to approximately one million people, reduce the usage of sugar in our major brands by half, reorganize health programs in the office in cooperation with employees, and promote physical and mental wellbeing in the workplace. We will continue to contribute to solving health issues in the world from the standpoint of deliciousness and health through our beverages. ■Functional Analysis of Sesamin to Health Food Sales We took on the challenge of analyzing the functionality of sesame that has been praised for its health benefits and scientifically investigating the health effectiveness of sesamin, which is one minor component of sesame lignan that is part of sesame. This was commercialized as our first health food in 1993. Thereafter, we released Sesamin EX, a more powerful version of the product, based on a combination with vitamin E, tocotrienol, Oriza Plus, which is a component derived from brown rice. Suntory Wellness Ltd. is also selling a wide range of other health foods. Promoting Communication with Customers We are delivering a wide-range of information to customers through our website and booklets. Suntory Global Innovation Health information booklet Healthy Drink NAVI website Center website Suntory Wellness Online website 080 To Create Harmony To Create Harmony To Create Harmony Corporate with Customers To Create Harmony and Partners with Nature with Society with Employee Governance Sustainability Initiatives To Create Harmony with Nature Environment Suntory Group business is supported by precious global resources such as water and agricultural products. It is our responsibility to engage in sustainable business practices through the promotion of environmental management in accordance with our mission — To Create Harmony with People and Nature — so that we may pass down a rich global environment to future generations. We have established our Environmental Vision toward 2050 and set Environmental Targets toward 2030 in 2018 based on corporate tagline Mizu To Ikiru. Suntory Group commits to the promotion of environmental management based on two axes: preservation and regeneration of natural environment and reduction of environmental impact. That is the reason why the entire Group promotes environmental management. Environmental Measures Against Water Sustainability Management Climate Change We promote environmental Committed to biodiversity We are committed to promoting management in the entire Group to preservation, we are engaging in various initiatives to reduce pass down natural environment, our various activities to preserve and environmental impact through the important source of business, to the regenerate the natural environment entire value chain. next generation. based on the corporate mission To Create Harmony with People and Nature Environmental Communication Suntory Group values communication with its stakeholders and communicates information related to the environment. 081 Sustainability Action Plan Target achieved： ●●● Achieved 70% or more： ●● Achieved less than 70%： ● Prioritized items Mid-Term Targets Results in FY2019 FY2020 Action Plan Evaluation Surveys of birds focusing on birds of prey at Natural Water We will continue surveying Global expansion of birds focusing on birds of Sanctuaries are conducted at conservation activities prey, which are the top of 16 locations, and maintenance to protect wild birds the ecological pyramid, at is conducted in forests of that are the symbol of Natural Water Sanctuaries focus giving consideration to biodiversity and promote comprehensive their breeding and nesting environments. forest maintenance giving consideration to their breeding and nesting ●● ・Supported wild bird environments. Suntory protection activities in Japan Fund for Bird Preservation Nest building and and overseas through grants will continue to promote rearing of chicks by from the Suntory Fund for Bird the support for wild bird eagles and hawks at Preservation. conservation activities all the Natural Water ・Expanded informational through aiding various Sanctuaries in Japan communication through organizations in and outside updates to the Save the Birds Japan. website. In addition to implementing various activities such as tree Preserving and thinning and transport of Regenerating trimmings, building roadways Through these Natural Water the Natural Environment and walkways, installing Sanctuaries, we aim to create protective fences around forests with a higher level vegetation, planting and of water cultivation and rich nurturing seedling of local trees biodiversity. based on the midto long-term In addition to continuing to vision, Natural Water Sanctuary implement activities such as Expand the area Project has also been used tree thinning and transport of Natural Water to provide forestry engineer of trimmings, building Sanctuary so as to training and help restore roadways and walkways, make it twice the size mountain forests damaged installing protective fences ●● of the territory where from typhoons. There are around vegetation, planting Suntory withdraws more and more case examples and nurturing seedling of water for its plants in of Ikurinzai Timber from local trees, the Natural Water Japan. (12,000ha) cultivated forests*1 inside and Sanctuary Project specifically outside of the company, and strives to develop forests that we will continue to establish a are able to endure mountain system for strengthening and disasters. We will further intensifying its utilization in the promote the use of Ikurinzai future. Our expansion of Natural Timber from cultivated Water Sanctuary contract areas forests*1 in the future. achieved our midterm goals― targets toward 2020―a year early. 082 Prioritized items Mid-Term Targets Results in FY2019 FY2020 Action Plan Evaluation Expand content of Suntory Expanded content of Suntory Mizuiku activities, which Mizuiku activities and have been implemented enhanced awareness raising and for 17 years, and enhance dissemination of value of water awareness raising and and importance of nature that dissemination of value of nurture water water and importance of nature that nurtures water. ・57 times and 1,930 people ・Outdoor School of Forest and expected to participate Water held a total of 58 times in the Outdoor School of and 1,845 people participated Forest and Water ・Teaching about Water at Preserving ・210 schools and 16,700 Sharing our values Schools held at total of 207 and people expected to and raising awareness schools and 16,555 people Regenerating participate in the Teaching ●● on the importance of participated the Natural about Water at Schools Environment water ・6,200 people participated ・Expand Mizuiku Natural in the Mizuiku Natural Water Education Program Water Education Program in in elementary schools to elementary schools in Vietnam Dong Nai ・3,900 people participated ・Expand Mizuiku Natural in the Mizuiku Natural Water Education Program Water Education Program in elementary schools to in elementary schools in Jakarta Indonesia ・2,750 people expected to ・500 people participated participate in the Mizuiku in the Mizuiku Natural Natural Water Education Water Education Program in Program in elementary elementary schools in Thailand schools in Thailand Reduce water per unit Further reduce water usage Reduce the use of water production at Suntory at Group plants (reduction of for washing and cooling ●●● Group*2 plants by water use intensity by 14.2% manufacturing equipment 15%*3 compared to 2015) and containers Reducing Reduce the weight of Environmental containers, use of renewable Impact Reduce CO2 emission resources and energy Further reduce CO2 emissions in the entire value conservation at plants, throughout the entire value ● chain of Suntory proactively introduce chain Group*2 by 20%*4 vending machines that consume the least amount of electricity in Japan, etc. *1 Suntory coined wood materials generated during maintenance for nurturing healthy forests as Ikurinzai timber *2 Group companies that collectively account for more than 95% of the Suntory Group's sales in 2015 (including overseas companies) *3 Reduction per unit production based on the business fields in 2015 *4 Total reduction based on the business fields in 2015 083 To Create Harmony To Create Harmony To Create Harmony Corporate with Customers To Create Harmony and Partners with Nature with Society with Employee Governance To Create Harmony with Nature: Environment Environmental Management We promote environmental management in the entire Group to pass down natural environment, our important source of business, to the next generation. 084 To Create Harmony To Create Harmony To Create Harmony Corporate with Customers To Create Harmony and Partners with Nature with Society with Employee Governance Environmental Management Environmental Vision The natural environment is an important foundation of our business. That is the reason why the entire Suntory Group promotes environmental management. Suntory Group actively engages in activities to pass down a sustainable society to the next generation. Basic Policy on Group's Environmental Activity We believe that while providing the bounties of water to the customers, protecting beautiful and clean water, using them appropriately and returning water to the nature is a great responsibility that we as a company that coexists with water. The circular system consisting from plants and forests that are nurtured by water, rivers, oceans, atmosphere, and the ecosystem made by living things are the basis of all life. Suntory Group realizes that environment of earth itself is our important basis of business. We will continue striving to build a rich and sustainable society through spreading this policy to the entire Group and preserving and regenerating the natural environment and reducing environmental impact. ■Indicating Prioritized Initiatives in the Basic Principles of Suntory Group's Environmental Policy Suntory Group sets principles that clearly indicate our prioritized initiatives such as water sustainability, preserving biodiversity, efficient use of resources and challenging for a low-carbon company. With a more global perspective, we have revised the principles for the first time in five years in 2015. Basic Principles of Suntory Group's Environmental Policy (Established 1997, Revised 2015) The Suntory Group positions environmental management as the foundation of its business activities, and is committed to passing down a sustainable and vibrant society to future generations from the perspective of our entire value chain. 1. Achieving water sustainability We treat water, the most important resource for our business, carefully and contribute to the healthy circulation of water in the natural environment. 2. Taking initiative in conserving biodiversity As a company that relies on the riches of water and agricultural produce, we strive to conserve biodiversity, the source of their blessings, for the future. 3. Promoting the 3Rs in innovative ways for an effective usage of resources. We aim to help bring about a recycling-oriented society, we promote the 3Rs (reduce, reuse, recycle) of raw materials and energy resources by continuously refining our technologies. 4. Mobilizing group-wide efforts to become a low-carbon company We strive to reduce the emission of greenhouse gases throughout all of our workplaces in order to prevent climate change. 5. Communication with the Society We strive to pass down vibrant global environment for the next generation by active disclosure of information and engagement in activities through interaction with the society. 085 ■Environmental Vision toward 2050 and Environmental Targets toward 2030 In 2014, the Suntory Group established the Environmental Vision Toward 2050 and Environmental Targets toward 2030 to provide clear direction to its environmental management. In addition, we have revised the Environmental Vision 2050. Environmental Vision toward 2050 The Suntory Group has formulated the vision below toward 2050 for the purpose of passing down a sustainable global environment to the next generation around the pillars of water sustainability and climate change measures as a company in harmony with nature. 1. Water Sustainability Reduce water consumption at our plants worldwide* Preserve water resources and the ecosystem to cultivate more water than is used by our plants worldwide Realize sustainable water use at primary raw material farms Share the Sustainable Water Philosophy broadly in communities where we are expanding our primary businesses 2. Climate Change Measures Aim for net zero greenhouse gas emissions across the whole value chain by 2050. Continue to promote energy conservation, proactively implement renewable energy solutions, utilize nextgeneration infrastructure options and work together with stakeholders across the value chain in order to contribute to realizing a decarbonized society *Reduction per unit production based on the business fields in 2015 Environmental Targets toward 2030 We have set the following Environmental Targets toward 2030 to achieve the Environmental Vision toward 2050. 1. Water Reduce water use at our plants 15% globally by using the latest water conservation technologies*1 Conduct water resource cultivation activities in areas with high water stress at more than half of our plants Pursue sustainable water use in cooperation with suppliers for main raw materials with a high water load Expand water enlightenment programs and initiatives to provide safe water to more than 1 million people 2. CO2 Reduce CO2 emissions 25% at our bases globally through efforts such as the adoption of that latest energy-saving technologies and the use of renewable energy*2 Reduce CO2 emissions 20% in the value chain outside our bases*2 *1 Reduction per unit production based on the business fields in 2015 *2 Total reduction based on the business fields in 2015 086 ■Greenhouse Gas Reduction Goals Environmental Targets toward 2030 Certified by SBT Initiative The Science Based Targets (SBT) international initiative* has certified the CO2 and other greenhouse gas reduction goals for 2030 of the Suntory Group as fulfilling science-based standards to achieve the 2℃ target in the Paris Agreement. *Science Based Targets (SBT) Initiative: Science Based Targets is an initiative established by the CDP, United National Global Compact, World Resources Institute (WRI) and the World Wildlife Fund (WWF) in 2015. This initiatives encourages companies to work toward science-based greenhouse gas reduction targets (SBT) to limit the rising temperature to less than 2℃ above pre-industrial levels ■Declaration of Approval of Task Force on Climate-related Financial Disclosures (TCFD) Recommendations The Suntory Group has declared its approval of Task Force on Climate-related Financial Disclosures (TCFD*1) recommendations. The TCFD was established by the Financial Stability Board (FSB). In addition, we conducted scenario analysis for climate change according to the recommendations of the TCFD and learned about the possibility that climate change will have a significant impact on the crops that are ingredients important to the Suntory Group. From here on, we will further advance scenario analysis and expand disclosure of information related to the risks and opportunities that climate change poses to business. *1 The Task Force on Climate-related Financial Disclosures 087 To Create Harmony To Create Harmony To Create Harmony Corporate with Customers To Create Harmony and Partners with Nature with Society with Employee Governance Environmental Management Business Activities and Environmental Impact We are engaging in activities to reduce environmental impact in the entire product life cycle. Reducing Environmental Impact in the Entire Product Life Cycle Suntory Group generates various by-products and waste from a wide range of business activities. We are committed to reducinge environmental impact by quantitatively understanding our impact on the environment throughout a product's life cycle from planning to development to disposal and recycling. In addition, following the expansion of business overseas, we assess the environmental impact of overseas production sites to determine the environmental impact on a global scale. Suntory actively communicates with the suppliers throughout the entire supply chain. ■Product Life cycle 088 ■Assessing Water Risk The Suntory Group commits to water sustainability as a priority initiatives in the Basic Principles of Suntory Group's Environmental Policy. Suntory conducts various water assessments at the Institute for Water Science. To carry out business in a sustainable way, we conduct water risk assessment and promote environmental management. We also conduct water risk assessment when entering new businesses. ARI Aqueduct Water Risk Assessment by country (countries where Suntory Group plants are located) Baseline Water Stress Extremely high India High Mexico and Spain Medium-high France, Thailand, Indonesia, and Australia Low-medium Japan, America, England, the Philippines, and Nigeria Low Canada, Ireland, Taiwan, Vietnam, Malaysia, and New Zealand *Created based on the Baseline Water Stress score for each country adopted in the Aqueduct Risk Atlas by the World Resources Institute. https://www.wri.org/applications/aqueduct/country-rankings/ Hofste, R., S. Kuzma, S. Walker, E.H. Sutanudjaja, et. al. 2019. Aqueduct 3.0: Updated Decision-Relevant Global Water Risk Indicators. Technical Note. Washington, DC: World Resources Institute. Available online at: https://www.wri.org/publication/aqueduct-30. The Suntory Group has conducted water sustainability surveys of its plants since 2015. In 2017, we carried out a risk assessment on the water sustainability of our overseas plants, and then conducted local surveys and assessments that focused on plants with high water stress. Plants with high water stress* made up 17% of all of our plants. We have also consistently conducted water assessment surveys of our primary suppliers since 2016. *(Plants located in a country with a Baseline Water Stress score of extremely high or high in the Aqueduct by the World Resources Institute. *Created based on the Baseline Water Stress score adopted in the Aqueduct by the World Resources Institute. *Covers 26 production plants in Japan and 61 production plants overseas owned by companies that collectively account for more than 90% of the Suntory Group's sales 089 ■Quantitative Evaluation Through Natural Capital It is said that food and beverage companies that use agricultural goods as ingredients, use much more water in its agricultural supply chains than in own operations. The Suntory Group has calculate the water usage and GHG (greenhouse gases) emissions in its upstream supply chain. Ratio of Water Use by Raw Material and by Region in the Upstream Supply Chain (2015) *The ratio is for raw materials used by production sites in Japan *The calculation is based on data from the Water Footprint Network (WFN) *Total of green water (rain water, etc.) and blue water (irrigation water, etc.) Ratio of GHG Emissions by Procurement Item in the Upstream Supply Chain (2015) *The ratio is for procurement items used by production sites in Japan *The calculation is based on the Eora MRIO multi-region input-output table database 090 ■Overview of business activities and environmental impact (from January 1 to December 31 in 2019; manufacturing facilities in Japan, excluding outsourcing contractors) *1 BOD: Biochemical Oxygen Demand An indicator of water pollution *2 Emission factors for GHG calculation are as follows: Fuel: Factors specified by the Act on the Rational Use of Energy and the Act on Promotion of Global Warming Countermeasures. CO2 from Electricity consumption: The adjusted emission factors for each electric company specified by the Act on Promotion of Global Warming Countermeasures. GHG other than CO2: Factors specified by the Act on Promotion of Global Warming Countermeasures. 091 Suntory Beverage & Food Ltd. was named as a CDP Climate Change and Water Security 2019 A List Company In the CDP * 1 Climate Change 2019 and Water Securit y 2019 environmental activity sur vey conducted for public companies worldwide by the CDP* 1, Suntory Beverage & Food Ltd. received high praise. *1 Inter nat iona l NP O t hat mea sures , publicizes , ma na ges , a nd sha res important environmental data of companies and cities. Suntory Kyushu Kumamoto Plant Receives Alliance for Water Stewardship (AWS) Certification The Kyushu Kumamoto Plant ha s received cer tification by the Alliance for Water Stewardship (AWS) with regard to its sustainable use of water in the basin around the plant. It is the second plant in Japan to obtain this certification after the Suntory Okudaisen Bunanomori Water Plant received the first certification in December 2018. The Kyushu Kumamoto Plant is conduc ting fores t protec tion activities under its Natural Water Sanctuar y Aso project in the roughly 420ha of forests around the plant, which is the water resource cultivation area. We are also engaged in groundwater cultivation through f uyumizut a nbo* , which a re inundated agricultural fields near the plant used in water resource cultivation, as an integral part of the Natural Water Sanctuary project. The AWS certification indicates approval of the Suntory Group's grasp of water intake and outgo in the basin around the plant, water resource cultivation based on scientific data, water conservation and water quality management at the plant, collaboration with other stakeholders in the basin, and suitable information release, in accordance with its Sustainable Water Philosophy. *Fuyumizutanbo is a traditional a gricultural method which entails the spreading out of the water over rice paddies during the winter when they fallow, with the goal being the formation of fertile soil and the reduction of weeds. Efficient groundwater cultivation is expected as the result of water penetration into the ground. At the Suntory Group, we have been conducting fuyumizutanbo activities in cooperation with the government and region in the town of Mashiki in Kamimashiki District, Kumamoto since 2010, in an effort to bring about more broad-ranging functionality of groundwater cultivation. 092 To Create Harmony To Create Harmony To Create Harmony Corporate with Customers To Create Harmony and Partners with Nature with Society with Employee Governance Environmental Management Environmental Management Environmental Management Promotion System With the awareness that coexistence with nature is one of the most important issues facing all of humankind, back in 1991 the Suntory Group established the Environmental Department and Environment Committee. In 2010, Suntory Holdings Ltd. created the Environmental Sustainability Strategy Department, whose purpose is to ensure that business and ecology are promoted by the entire Group. The Division seeks to reinforce environmental management at Group companies based on the Basic Principles of Suntory's Environmental Policy. The Global Communication Committee established in April 2016 set the construction of a global environmental management system as an important theme in addition to strengthening environmental management at Group companies in Japan. The Global Communication Committee established the Sustainability Strategy Department, which evolved from the Environmental Sustainability Strategy Department, in April 2017 while restructuring the Sustainability Promotion Department, which promotes sustainable management, in April 2018. The Global Sustainability Committee works at formulating strategic plans and on important issues to promote sustainable management and checks progress. We strive toward making it so that all our corporate activities, including the business activities of the Suntory Group, contribute to the improvement of the sustainability of the overall value chain. ■Suntory Group's Environmental Management Promotion System 093 Promotion of ISO14001 Certification Acquisition Throughout the Group We have actively advanced the acquisition of the international ISO14001 certification standard at each Group company as one method to continually evolve by integrating business and environmental activities. With the completion in acquiring the integrated certification and the start of operations at Group companies* in Japan, we are working to enhance management to abide by laws at sites with a low environmental burden and conduct even more efficient environmental management with these sites as targets from 2017. We are in the process of obtaining certifications at overseas Group companies with focus on our production sites. We are 70% complete in certifying overseas Group company production sites as of 2019. We are enhancing the links between each department involved with the value change of businesses at each Suntory Group company to promote business activities from an environmental perspective in all stages from the procurement of ingredients to disposal. *Group companies complying to the Japanese SOX Act ■Initiatives at production sites We have also successively advanced the acquisition of the ISO14001 certification since 1998 at production sites and have acquired the comprehensive certification as of today. We are deploying activity examples horizontally and taking both auditors and auditees to the next level by dispatching bilateral internal auditors while appointing auditors at each site as internal ISO14001 auditors. We are also progressing with the acquisition of certifications even at production plants of overseas Group companies. ■Initiatives at Research and Development Sites We have acquired the ISO14 0 01 cer tification in 20 07 even at research and development sites to accelerate environmentally-friendly initiatives from the research and development stage even further in order to strengthen environmental management throughout the entire value chain. ■Initiatives at the Headquarters and Sales Offices We have completed the acquisition of the ISO14001 certification at all headquarters and sales departments at Suntory Group companies in Japan. We are also building a PDCA system to reflect the Basic Principles of Suntory Group's Environmental Policy in the operational objectives of each department and periodically feedback the results of activities to top management. ■Initiatives at Restaurant-related Group Companies We are acquiring the ISO14001 integrated certification for the headquarters and all stores at restaurant-related Group companies who are increasing their number of establishments in Japan in an effort to save energy and water, reduce food loss, and enhance recycling. ISO14001 screening 094 Introducing Environmental Accounting We use and disclose the content of environmental accounting that conforms to the 2005 Environmental Accounting Guidelines of the Ministry of the Environment. Environment accounting serves as an important tool for periodic quantitative evaluations of our environmental conservation initiatives in our business activities. ■Suntory Group's Environmental Accounting (total of business in Japan) (Period: January 1 to December 31, 2019) (million yen) FY2017 FY2018 FY2019 Item Environmental Environmental Environmental Environmental Environmental Environmental investment costs investment costs investment costs ・Preventing water pollution Pollution 326 2,001 528 2,207 348 2,151 prevention cost ・Air pollution prevention cost, etc. ・CO2 reduction Global ・Energy environmental conservation 266 3,444 198 3,020 668 3,090 preservation cost ・Cogeneration Business area ・Air treatment, etc. cost ・Conserving water through recirculation Resource ・Reducing sludge 67 2,612 287 2,720 331 3,246 circulation cost ・Reusing waste ・Wastewater treatment cost, etc. Total 659 8,058 1,013 7,946 1,347 8,486 ・Commission for resource recycling Upstream and containers and packaging downstream 0 1,133 0 1,290 0 1,238 cost ・Environmentally-friendly containers and packaging measures ・Building and maintaining Management Environmental Management System activities 0 670 0 900 0 927 ・Sustainability Reports, Exhibits costs ・Factory greenification, etc. Research and ・Research and development activities development 1 369 8 379 28 300 to reduce environmental impact costs ・Suntory Natural Water Sanctuary Social ・Bird Conservation Activities activities 90 569 77 504 79 530 costs ・Suntory Mizuiku Natural Water Education Program, etc. Environmental damage 0 0 0 0 0 0 response cost Total 751 10,798 1,098 11,019 1,454 11,480 *Amount of investment: Rea son for investment wa s 50% or more for preser ving the environment, all amount is considered a s environmental investment (inspection basis) *Amortization expense: Expenses for investment from 2003 and afterwards which 50% or more is intended for environmental preservation are calculated. *In general, all cost for management and research activities are directly confirmed. Costs that are difficult to confirm directly are prorated and allocated based on a past survey of each procedure. 095 ■Environmental Preservation Effect of Suntory Group (production sites in Japan) (Period: January 1 to December 31, 2019) Reduction against previous fiscal Item Unit 2017 2018 2019 year per unit production basis Total (t) 14.4 16.4 16.8 SOx -0.7 t/year Reduction Per Unit (g/k) 3.0 3.4 3.5 Pollution of pollutant prevention Total (t) 134.5 147 152 emissions NOx -7.5 t/year Per Unit (g/k) 28.5 30.1 31.6 CO2 CO2 (Fuel + Total (thousand t) 369.7 355.9 350.5 8.7 thousand emission Electricity) Per Unit (kg/k) 77.3 73.0 71.2 t/year reduction Derivation Crude oil conversion 104 102 103 Preserving Fuel -2,760 k/year (thousand k) global In business environment Reduction Per Unit (/k) 22.0 20.9 21.5 area costs of energy consumption Total amount 332 335 341 (million kWh) -11,767 thousand Electricity Per Unit kWh/year 70.2 68.5 70.9 (kWh/k) Reduction Total amount 22,361 22,161 21,310 443 thousand of water Water use (thousand m3) m3/year resource use Per Unit (m3/k) 4.7 4.5 4.4 Resource By-products Total (t) 258,459 257,951 251,454 circulation and waste 1,744 t/year Reduction of waste emissions Per Unit (kg/k) 52.8 52.7 52.3 emissions Resource （％） 100 100 100 recycling rate *Electricity based CO2 emissions are the adjusted emission factors for each electric power company as specified by the Act on Promotion of Global Warming Countermeasures. ■Economic effect of Suntory Group (production sites in Japan) (million yen) Item FY2017 FY2018 FY2019 Income from recycling (sales of byproducts)*1 380 355 359 Cost saved by conserving energy* 2 510 429 -321 *1 The calculation method is the same as the costs saved for waste disposal < Previous Year's Capital Gains × Ratio Compared to Previous Year's Production Volume Current Year's Capital Gains > *2 The calculation method is the same as the costs saved for waste disposal < Yearly Costs Before Utility × Ratio Compared to Previous Year's Production Volume Current Year's Costs > 096 To Create Harmony To Create Harmony To Create Harmony Corporate with Customers To Create Harmony and Partners with Nature with Society with Employee Governance Environmental Management FY2019 Targets, Results and Evaluation FY2019 Targets, Results and Evaluation Target achieved： ●●● Achieved 70% or more： ●● Achieved less than 70%： ● Prioritized items FY2019 target FY2019 results Evaluation Operated and sustained the 2015 1. Environmental ISO14001: Maintain certification certification standards in the ●●● Management environmental management system Zone forests in detail and create a 5-year and 10-year midClarified the forest we aim for in term maintenance plan based on various survey results of the future as a mid-term vision and Natural Water Sanctuaries. Establish a cooperative system established a maintenance plan, etc. with academics with experience, government and foresters for major Natural Water Sanctuaries ●●● 2.Water resource to further promote water resource cultivation activities from cultivation multiple angles Increased reporting on activities and and water use Further enhance information dissemination related to water renewed the website to make content reduction search easier resource cultivation activities Water consumption per unit of Further promote the reduction of water use in production production* 1 in Suntory Group*2 plants ●●● activities decreased by 14.2% compared to 2015 Suntory Group* 1 Scope 1/Scope 2 emissions* 1 increased 6.4% compared Further promote the reduction of CO2 emission in the entire to 2015 3.CO2 reduction ●● value chain Used renewable energy in a scope compatible with our business activities ●Reduce Further reduce the weight of PET bottles Reduce the weight of glass bottles, paper containers, etc. Reduce the weight of resin and paper labels and cardboards Collected and reused a total of 85 ●Reuse million returnable bottles 4.3R in containers and Maintain the system of returnable bottles Continue utilization of RePET Bottles ●●● packaging ●Recycling which use 100% reused PET resin Utilization of RePET Bottles through mechanical recycling Promote the establishment of an efficient and effective container recycling system through participation in activities of recycling organization for each container and packaging materials Promoted a high-quality resource recycling that sustains a Maintained 100% resource recycling 5.Reduction and ●●● recycling rate of 100% at plants rate at plants Recycling of Waste Achieved target of Food Recycling Law Achieved target of Food Recycling Law for each business ●●● for each business Implement a one-day course in Outdoor School of Forest and Water as part of the Suntory Mizuiku Education Outdoor School of Forest and Water 6.Suntory Program for Nature and Water which children and parents held a total of 58 times and 1,845 ●● Mizuikucan participate. Total of approximately 1,980 participants people participated Education are planned from Hakushu, Okudaisen and Aso Schools Program for Nature and Implement a program linked to the subject with subject Teaching about Water at Schools held Water teachers with the theme of passing down water to the future at total of 207 schools and 16,555 ●●● in Teaching about Water at Schools. Approximately 15,800 people participated participants are planned *1 The group of companies of the Suntory Group in 2015 (including overseas companies) *2 Per unit of production refers to the amount purchased, used, or emitted per the amount of one unit. The amount of one unit in production: products 1k 097 To Create Harmony To Create Harmony To Create Harmony Corporate with Customers To Create Harmony and Partners with Nature with Society with Employee Governance Environmental Management Environmental Education for Employees We are making efforts to raise environmental awareness and improve communication through disseminating information to the employees in timely manner and holding regular environmental trainings. Promoting Environmental Education in the Group We promote environmental education to raise employees' environmental awareness strategically. In 2019 we implemented various environmental education initiatives including e -learning for all Group employees in Japan and dissemination of information on the Intranet. In addition, we regularly hold workshops and seminars to learn specific skills that are required in each operation. Seminar on managing Wastes Disposal and Public Cleansing Act FY2019 Environmental Training Name Target Number of participating employees Onboarding training New employees All (environmental management class) ISO14001 awareness and Plant employees All special education Environmental management training Group employees in Japan 19,901 (e-learning, etc.) Training for newly appointed employees Employees in charge of ISO14001 10 in charge of ISO14001 Internal ISO14001 auditor training Internal ISO14001 auditor 118 Employees in charge of product Eco-products seminar 56 development Environmental Law Training Employees from relevant departments 39 Wastes Disposal and Public Cleansing Act Employees from relevant departments 115 seminar Training held for on-site confirmation of Employees from relevant departments 33 industrial waste 098 ■Raising Awareness among Employees on First Hand Experience with Forestry We are advancing employee participation in the First Hand Experience with Forestry at Suntory Natural Water Sanctuaries where Group employees and their families have participated in volunteer activities since 2013. We have been engaged in an activity for approximately 7,600 employees in alcoholic and nonalcoholic businesses that encourage employees to par ticipate in firsthand experience with forestry to make each employee experience and understand Suntory's value of coexisting with nature since 2014. It is still being implemented in Forestry Maintenance Training for Employees new employee training programs. ■Promoting Environmental Action on the Intranet and Internal Magazine We are sharing basic environmental information, environmental laws and ordinances pertinent to our business, internal guidelines and other materials on the intranet. We are also raising awareness in our employees and encouraging action by including e-Learning as well as lending out DVDs related to environmental activities. The MADO internal magazine and the e-MADO published on our intranet play a role in introducing the latest environmental activities and information of the Suntory Group to not only enlighten employees but also their families. 099 To Create Harmony To Create Harmony To Create Harmony Corporate with Customers To Create Harmony and Partners with Nature with Society with Employee Governance To Create Harmony with Nature: Environment Water Sustainability Only about 0.01% of the entire fresh water on Earth can be used by mankind. Suntory Group business is supported by precious global resources such as water and agricultural products. Suntory Group uses water carefully and not only returns clean water to nature, but protects forests that nurture groundwater and contribute to healthy circulation of water in nature. In other words, we recognize that water sustainability is the most important issue in our business activity. Realizing Preservation and Regeneration of Natural Environment The Suntory Group businesses are supported and realized by precious global resources such as water. We are reducing the environmental burden in our business activities to pass down a global environment rich with water and abundant nature to the future generations. We are also promoting activities that contribute to the preservation and revitalization of the natural environment such as the preservation of the natural environment in Natural Water Sanctuaries, Save the Birds activities to share the importance of protecting the wild birds that symbolize a rich ecosystem with society, and the Suntory Mizuiku Education Program for Nature and Water that communicates the importance of water to children. Within our Environmental Vision 2050, we declare an ambition to take on the challenge of actively engaging in environmental preservation and restoration activities in the main countries of operation, while also setting various targets for them in the Environmental Targets toward 2030 100 101 To Create Harmony To Create Harmony To Create Harmony Corporate with Customers To Create Harmony and Partners with Nature with Society with Employee Governance Water Sustainability Sustainable Water Philosophy Our craftsmanship is only possible through nature's gifts. It is our duty to nurture and protect water as an invaluable natural resource. Everything we create is grounded in respect and appreciation for water and we are committed to our efforts to keep water in its purest and most abundant form for future generations. Sustainable Water Philosophy Overview Establishing Our Sustainable Water Philosophy The Suntory Group Sustainable Water Philosophy was established to address relevant water issues in each of our regions of operation. As we grow internationally, we are expanding our work on water sustainability across the globe. Suntory Group's Sustainable Water Philosophy (Established 2017) Water is the most important ingredient of our products, as well as a precious shared resource. In order to achieve water sustainability , the first pillar of Suntory Group's Environmental Policy, we want to share these values with all Suntory Group members and apply them where we operate in order to answer to our stakeholders' expectations. Principle 1: Understanding the natural cycle of water We investigate watersheds around our sites to understand the local hydrological cycle, using a scientific approach when needed. 2.Promoting environmentally conscious water use We reduce the environmental impacts of water use on the natural water cycle by implementing 3R activities and returning water to nature after adequate treatment. 3.Conserving watersheds We conserve our watersheds and endeavor to improve local water quality and quantity in cooperation with stakeholders for a sustainable future. 4.Engaging with the local community We endeavor to support our community by fostering collective actions to solve water issues and enrich society. 102 To Create Harmony To Create Harmony To Create Harmony Corporate with Customers To Create Harmony and Partners with Nature with Society with Employee Governance Water Sustainability Natural Water Sanctuaries (Water Resource Cultivation / Preserving Biodiversity) Natural Water Sanctuary Activities -For the future of water and life Suntory is a water company. Without quality water, we are unable to produce any beer, soft drinks, or whisky. This is because water, especially groundwater, serves as Suntory's lifeline. This precious groundwater is nurtured in the forest. In order to maintain safety and reliability of groundwater as well as sustainability, we are cultivating water resources in forests which is more than twice the amount of water used by our plants. Therefore, plant water resource protection areas are specified, with a focus on our Institute for Water Science, and mid-to-long-term agreements are established with local government and forest owners to maintain forests, leading to the establishment of Natural Water Sanctuaries. In addition to the first sanctuary location established in Aso City, Kumamoto Prefecture in 2003 and the newest sanctuary called Natural Water Sanctuary Northern Alps (located in Omachi City, Nagano Prefecture) in March 2019, there are 21 Suntory Natural Water Sanctuaries in 15 prefectures which comprise a total area of approximately 12,000ha. ■<Natural Water Sanctuary> Development Targets (1)Forests with a great capacity for cultivating water resources (2)Forests rich in biodiversity (3)Forests able to withstand flooding and landslides (4)Forests with great CO2 absorption capabilities (5)Beautiful forests where visitors can encounter nature in all its abundance (used for education programs, etc.) Video: Philosophy of Activities and Creating Forests that Protect Water and the Future of Life on Earth Short Version 103 *1 When there contracts and agreements with different durations, the longest duration is given. *2 Automatically renewed every 5 years. *3 In Nagaokakyo, Kyoto, we are a member of the Nishiyama forestry development promotion committee and we are cooperating in local forest preservation activities with people in the community. The area of the forests subject to this activity is not counted as part of our total Natural Water Sanctuary area. Looking at Groundwater -Comparing simulation models with results from field surveys One of the main purposes of our Natural Water Sanctuar y activities is to improve the function of forests for recharging water resources. As a way to evaluate the results, Suntory has been trying to quantitatively evaluate the amount of groundwater recharge using a groundwater flow simulation model since 2006 and is finally approaching a level of accuracy which would allow the model to be used. Through the simulation of groundwater flow, we attempt to simulate where groundwater passes and how long it takes In addition to simulation results, it is also to reach the factory, and combine it with field survey information to deepen important to combine these results with results based on information gathered in understanding of the underground which we normally cannot see. We would the field during hydrologic surveys, etc. for verification. like to incorporate these results into the maintenance plan which will lead to more effective water resource cultivation activities. Video: Groundwater Flow Simulation GETFLOWS (GEneral purpose Terrestrial fluid-FLOW Simulator) Model 104 Forest Cultivation Which Looks 50 years and 100 Years Into the Future All forests are different. So what are the special characteristics of each Natural Water Sanctuary as well as the issues that they face? At first, we engage in activities that follow the RPDCA cycle which includes scientifically-based survey and research (Research), which serves as the foundation, creation of a vision (development plan) suited to each forest (Plan), maintenance work conducted by professionals (Do), verification of results (Check), and consideration of measures for improvement/conducting re-examination (Action). The areas and fields of investigation and research targeted by Natural Water Sanctuary activities are diverse and linked organically. In doing so, cooperation based on the knowledge and skills of experts in various fields and of people in local communities is indispensable. We also use Natural Water Sanctuaries to conduct activities including human resource development support for passing on knowledge and skills (road creation, preventing damage from harmful animals, etc.), Suntory Mizuiku Education Program for Nature and Water, which allows children to experience the importance of forests since they cultivate water, and First Hand Experience with Forestry by Suntory employees. Suntory continues implementation of Natural Water Sanctuary activities in order to provide the blessing of nature, something that cannot be replaced, to our children, grandchildren, and future generations to come by first humbly listening to various related issues and work together with local communities to gain knowledge. 105 A Healthy Forest is One Full of Life -Protecting Biodiversity If there are many different types of plants in a forest, there will be an increase in the types of small animals that eat them, resulting in attracting animals that eat those small animals. In a healthy environment like this, a pyramid formed by various organisms is completed. In addition to conducting systematic management through continuous ecosystem monitoring of animals, including birds, plants, and insects at Natural Water Sanctuaries, in January 2011 we participated in Biodiversity Declaration Promotion Partners initiated by Keidanren (Japan Business Federation) and are taking the initiative to create a society rich in biodiversity. Biodiversity Pyramid of a Forest: Protecting the soil and vegetation leads to the protection of the entire ecosystem. ■Biodiversity in a Natural Water Sanctuary from a Bird's Perspective The plant and animal life living in the forest will change if the typical functions of the forest can be revitalized. Focusing on wild birds, which are said to serve as a barometer of a given environment, we conduct wild bird surveys by specialists in the Natural Water Sanc tuaries ever y year ba sed on the idea that it is possible to comprehensively grasp the changes in the entire ecosystem that supports them. In addition, nest building and rearing of chicks by eagles and hawks at all the Natural Water Sanctuaries in Japan has been raised as Video: Eagle and Hawk Chick Rearing Support Project targets toward 2020 with the purpose of advancing the development of a forest rich with biodiversity by taking the perspective of natural wild birds in the Natural Water Sanctuaries. Becoming More Familiar with Natural Water Sanctuaries ■Ikurinzai Timber From Cultivated Forests Project It is necessary to cut down trees in order to keep a forest healthy. The Suntory Group calls wood material made from Natural Water Sanctuary activities to nurture sustainable water and forests Ikurinzai Timber from cultivated forests, carefully using all the conifer and broad-leaved trees removed during tree cutting, road creation, and other activities. Case Examples of Timber Utilization Inside and Outside of the Company Research Location: Timber used to Timber used to make this table and Video: Ikurinzai Timber From create the entrance (flooring, etc.) set of chairs being used at Hidokei no Cultivated Forests Project of Suntory World Research Center Oka Park in Nishiwaki City (Japan). 106 ■Natural Water Sanctuary Forum 2019 Based on the goal of Creating Forests Which Nurture Water and Life, specialists in a variety of fields who provide coaching and collaborate in Natural Water Sanctuary activities are invited the form which serves as an opportunity to share the newest expertise and policies for future activities. The forum was held nine times from 2011 to 2019. A poster session where guests can ask lecturers questions and exchange opinions ■First Hand Experience with Forestry by Employees Many group employees and their families have volunteered in Natural Water Sanctuary activities up to 2013. Since 2014, so that each employee experiences and understands the values of our corporate philosophy To Create Harmony with People and Nature, a total of about 7,400 people (including about 800 volunteers) participated in the First Hand Experience with Forestry activity for Suntory Group company employees, mainly current employees of Suntory Holdings Ltd. and Suntory Beverage & Food Ltd. Employees cutting undergrowth at Employees pruning trees at a Video: First Hand Experience with a Natural Water Sanctuary Natural Water Sanctuary Forestry Project ■University of Tokyo The Wisdom of Water (Suntory) Corporate Sponsored Research Program Suntory Holdings Ltd. established the University of Tokyo The Wisdom of Water (Suntory) Corporate Sponsored Research Program in April 2008, and it has held this research program for five years. By cultivating more social interest in water, we are engaging in the various activities below with the aim of contributing to the education of research in academic fields while promoting solutions of water issues as well as developing a rich water environment. Activity Case Examples The Wisdom of Water and Scientific Study of Forests and Water websites Water Map of Japan Water Drill educational contents for elementary students 107 To Create Harmony To Create Harmony To Create Harmony Corporate with Customers To Create Harmony and Partners with Nature with Society with Employee Governance Water Sustainability Bird Conservation Activities Wild birds are said to be an indicator of natural environment. Understanding that the wild bird protection is linked to the protection of humans and the natural environment, we began our involvement in bird conservation activities in 1973. History of Suntory Bird Conservation Activities Year of Content activity Start of Save the Birds! Campaign (May) 1973 The first publication of a newspaper ad with an illustration of wild birds (received Asahi Advertising Award) Established a bird sanctuary in the Hakushu Distillery (Yamanashi prefecture) 1989 Foundation of the Suntory Fund for Bird Conservation 1990 The 1st Fund Granting Ceremony of the public trust, Suntory Fund for Bird Conservation 1993 Start of the Save 1000 Albatrosses! Campaign 2006 Newly established Grant for Community Bird Activities to the Suntory Fund for Bird Conservation 2014 Newly established Grant for Riparian Large Bird Conservation to the Suntory Fund for Bird Conservation Received the Wood Pencil at the D&AD Awards 2016, the ADC Award at the 2016 ADC Awards and the 2016 monetary prize at the Design for Asia Awards (DFAA) for the Line of Life Project to build kites of birds with children in the hopes of returning storks to a habitat where they can live normally The 29th Fund Granting Ceremony of the public trust, Suntory Fund for Bird Conservation (Total of ¥456.66 2018 million from the 1st to 29th fund granting have been made to 366 organizations) Relevant businesses certified under Japan Committee for the United Nations Decade on Biodiversity (UNDB-J) The 31th Fund Granting Ceremony of the public trust, Suntory Fund for Bird Conservation (Total of ¥538.46 2020 million from the 1st to 31th fund granting have been made to 425 organizations) 1st Save the Birds! Campaign newspaper ad 108 ■The Suntory Fund for Bird Conservation As one of the activities commemorating the 90th anniversary of our founding, we enhanced bird conservation activities with the establishment of the Suntory Fund for Bird Conservation in 1989. As this initiative is designated to promote global environmental conservation through the protection of wild birds, funds are granted for bird protection activities both in Japan and overseas. Over the 31 years since becoming a charitable trust in 1990, the Foundation has granted total of ¥538.46 million to 425 organizations up to 2020, making great The 30th Fund Granting Ceremony achievements. of Public Trust Suntory Fund for Bird Conservation The Hakushu Distillery Bird Sanctuary We started bird conservation activities in 1973, and in the same year, as the first private company, we opened a wild bird sanctuary in the Hakushu Distillery in Yamanashi Prefecture. Surrounded by rich forests and many clear streams, the Hakushu Distillery is a relay point of migration for wild birds. In the bird sanctuary, Suntory periodically conducts bird research and, together with the local people, engages in forest preservation activities to maintain an environment by various activities including nest box hanging and other activities. Blue-and-white flycatcher Hanging boxes in the Bird Sanctuary Communication We are putting out a broad range of information through our websites and other tools to familiarize more people with these wild birds. On the Japanese Bird Encyclopedia website, anyone can enjoy learning about over 200 species of wild birds through illustrations with explanations, bird calls, and pictures. The Bird Watching that Starts Today website recommends bird watching spots nearby while introducing hints and points of caution when observing wild birds. These websites can even be enjoyed while out and about on a smartphone. We are also creating leaflets on how to easily distinguish the birds around you to help in bird watching and leaflets about how to easily make feeders, birdbaths and nest to encourage birds into your area. Japanese Bird Encyclopedia website The Bird Watching that Starts Today website Save the Birds Activity leaflets 109 To Create Harmony To Create Harmony To Create Harmony Corporate with Customers To Create Harmony and Partners with Nature with Society with Employee Governance Preserving and Regenerating the Natural Environment Suntory Mizuiku Education Program for Nature and Water We are implementing Suntor y Mizuiku-Education Program for Nature and Water to pass down precious natural environment to the next generation. Suntory Mizuiku-Education Program for Nature and Water Suntory Mizuiku-Education Program for Nature and Water celebrates its 17th year in 2020. Suntory Mizuiku-Education Program for Nature and Water is a program unique to Suntory designed for the next generation to realize the beauty of nature and importance of water and the forests that nurture the groundwater and to think about what they can do to ensure there is water in the future. The program centers on two activities: Outdoor School of Forest and Water and Teaching Program at Schools. *Sponsor: Ministry of the Environment, Ministry of Education, Culture, Sports, Science and Technology, etc. ■Outdoor School of Forest and Water This hands-on nature program geared to elementary school students from grades three through six and their parents or guardians is held in the home regions of (Mineral Water) Suntory Tennensui. Participants experience for themselves the importance of water and of the forests that produce it amid the great outdoors at Hakushu (Yamanashi prefecture), Okudaisen (Tottori prefecture), and Aso (Kumamoto prefecture). Around 27,000 students and their parents took part in the program since it began in 2004 through 2019. The Outdoor School of Forest and Water staff conduct the program together with expert instructors that play active role locally in environmental education. Total number of participants at the Suntory Mizuiku Natural Water Education Program Outdoor School of Forest and Water (total of three schools) Outdoor School of Forest and Water 110 ■Teaching Program at Schools We offer study programs for students in grades 4 and 5 in elementary schools together with their teachers. We believe we can make a difference by teaching the cycle and importance of nature through videos and experiments so that together we can pass down water to future generations. These programs have been held in metropolitan areas from Keihanshin, Aichi, Gifu, Yamanashi, where our natural water plant is located, Tottori, and Kumamoto prefectures with the participation of roughly 154,000students at approximately 2,000 schools as of 2019. Total number of participants for Teaching Program at Schools Teaching about Water at Schools ■Suntory Mizuiku Natural Water Education Program Website The Suntory Mizuiku-Natural Water Education Program website is a place to have fun and learn about water. The website includes detailed information about the Outdoor School of Forest and Water and the Teaching Program at Schools programs in addition to kids pages such as the encyclopedia that brings together independent water research and comprehensive knowledge about water. Suntor y Mizuiku Natural Water Education Program Website 111 Expanding Suntory Mizuiku-Education Program for Nature and Water on a Global Level With the expansion of Suntory Group's business activities internationally, we have also expanded Suntory Mizuiku Education Program for Nature and Water overseas with the hope of promoting environmental activities globally. ■Vietnam We started the Vietnam Version of Suntory Mizuiku-Education Program for Nature and Water from March 2015, marking our first Suntory Mizuiku effort overseas. We developed original education materials in collaboration with international NGOs such as Live and Learn, started collaboration with the Central Council of Ho Minh Young Pioneer Organization as well as the Vietnam National Union of Students from 2017, and have been conducting classes for third and fourth grade children to learn about the importance of water, sanitary management, and the importance of preserving water resources. We are also expanding teaching classes in each region by dispatching qualified Mizuiku instructors as part of a summer program. Starting in Hanoi City, classes are also taught in Quang Nam Province, Lang Son Province, and Ben Tre City. As of the end of 2019, approximately 24,000 children have participated in the program since its inception. In addition, we are contributing to the installation of toilets and washrooms at elementary schools to improve sanitary environment of children. Suntory Mizuiku-Education Program for Nature and Water in Vietnam T his ac t ivit y wa s created to cont r ibute to Ta rget 6. B of Sus t a ina ble Development Goal 6 Ensure access to water and sanitation for all. ■Thailand From July 2019, we started Suntory Mizuiku-Education Program for Nature and Water in Thailand, the second foreign country in addition to Vietnam to serve as a program target location. Through the collaboration of our group company Suntory PepsiCo Beverage Thailand and a local NGO, we implemented an educational program for fourth, fifth, and sixth grade children from Saraburi Province and Rayong Province, where Suntory PepsiCo Beverage Thailand plants are located, and Chiang Mai Province, which possesses the most water resources in Thailand. Approximately 500 children participated in the program in 2019. It is an original nature experience program which teaches children about the importance of water, the importance of protecting water resources, and similar matters. In addition, in May we also began a project to prevent sediment based erosion by slowing the currents of streams in northern Chiang Mai Province, installed small weirs to suppor t permeation of underground water, planted trees to prevent soil from flowing into the streams, and carried out other water resource preservation activities which we plan to continue into the future. Suntory Mizuiku-Education Program for Nature and Water in Thailand 112 ■Indonesia We started the Indonesia Version of Suntory Mizuiku-Education Program for Nature and Water in July 2019. Collaborating with our group company Suntory Garuda, a local foundation, and a local NGO, we implemented an educational program for elementary school children in Gowa (South Sulawesi Province), Banjarbaru (South Kalimantan Province), Sidoarjo (East Java Province), and Tangerang (Banten Province) participate in the program. In 2019, approximately 3,900 students from 61 schools received education through Indonesia's Mizuiku program. As in Vietnam, we plan to expand classes to teach about the importance of water, sanitar y management, and the importance of preserving water resources through an original learning program. The program provides basic knowledge about water, addresses water pollution and how to eliminate it, and explores water preservation efforts that children can contribute to on an individual level. This contributes to improving the environment of children in Indonesia as well as their awareness about sanitation. Suntory Mizuiku-Education Program for Nature and Water in Indonesia 113 To Create Harmony To Create Harmony To Create Harmony Corporate with Customers To Create Harmony and Partners with Nature with Society with Employee Governance Preserving and Regenerating the Natural Environment Water Initiatives Worldwide The Suntory Group businesses are supported and realized by precious global resources such as water. The global environment which holds the blessings of water and nature is a vital foundation of our businesses. We actively strive to coexist with the natural environment worldwide as we expand these businesses to pass down a sustainable society to the next generation. The Suntory Group will continue to engage in various initiatives in the future with the goal of becoming a global pioneer of environmental conservation. Environmental Conservation Activities to Cultivate Water ■Beam Suntory Beam Suntor y ha s worked to preser ve the natural environment, such a s water conservation activities around its distilleries and the improvement of biodiversity in forests, to protect the precious natural resource of water. The Maker's Mark Water Sanctuary Project that began in 2016 planted American white oak trees on 33-acres of distillery land (approx. 13 hectares) as an effort in water resource cultivation. In 2018, new environmental conservation activities also began with the setup of a Natural Water Sanctuary on 15,625 acres of land (approx. 6,300 hectares) in the Bernheim Arboretum and Research Forest, a water resource of the Jim Beam distillery. ■Suntory Beverage & Food Europe In France, Suntory Beverage & Food Europe entered into a 20-year partnership for the conservation of water resources in 2017 with Grand Parc Miribel Jonage, a nature park located next to the Meyzieu Plant. This partnership conducts conservation activities in the forest spanning the Grand Parc Miribel Jonage and supports educational programs for children, in addition to protecting water resources and the natural environment near the plant as well as promoting cultivation activities with the local community. In Spain, Suntor y Beverage & Food Europe engaged in ecosystem conser vation activities with the cooperation of the local community in the hope of revitalizing the ecosystem in and around the Júcar river near its plant in Carcagente. Access to Safe Water ■Suntory Beverage & Food Asia In Vietnam, Suntory Beverage & Food Asia has been contributing to repairs and installations of toilets and washrooms mainly at schools taking part in the Suntory Mizuiku since 2015 to improve the sanitary environment for children. In 2019, sediment based erosion was prevented by slowing the currents of streams in northern Chiang Mai Province, small weirs to support permeation of groundwater were installed, trees were planted to prevent soil from flowing into the streams, and other water resource preservation activities were carried out. In Nairobi, Kenya, Suntory engages in activities to supply clean and safe drinking water to schools through the Kangemi Resource Centre, which supports the education of the local community and addresses water shortages. 114 To Create Harmony To Create Harmony To Create Harmony Corporate with Customers To Create Harmony and Partners with Nature with Society with Employee Governance To Create Harmony with Nature: Environment Measures Against Climate Change We are committed to promoting various initiatives to reduce environmental impact through the entire value chain. Continuing activities to reduce environmental impact Suntory Group promotes the reduction of package weight, the use of recycled materials, and the installation of energysaving vending machines to countermeasure global warming, effective use of resources, preventing pollution and managing chemical substances through the value chain, from ingredient procurement, manufacture to distribution, sales, and recycling. 115 To Create Harmony To Create Harmony To Create Harmony Corporate with Customers To Create Harmony and Partners with Nature with Society with Employee Governance Climate Change Measures Suntory Group Plastic Policy Based on this Plastic Policy, Suntory will aim for fully sustainable plastic bottles in all the PET bottles used globally by 2030. The Suntory Group has formulated the Plastic Policy to provide strong leadership for transforming our current society into a recycling-oriented and zero carbon society, aiming toward the realization of a sustainable society. Our group is promoting sustainability management globally with the aim of realizing our mission To Create Harmony with People and Nature as stated in our corporate philosophy. In the field containers and packaging, we have developed the world's first F-to-P direct recycling technology which eliminates some PET bottle recycling processes and simultaneously reduces environmental impact and increases recycling efficiency. In addition, actions such as introducing for the first time to the world a PET bottle cap* that uses 100% plant-derived raw materials and working toward developing a 100% plant-derived PET bottle are among efforts to develop PET bottles that have a low environmental impact and build a recycling system. Our medium-term goal is to use recycled PET materials for more than half of the total plastic bottle weight in our Japan-based soft drink business by 2025. Based on this newly established Plastic Policy, in addition to expanding our F-to-P production line, we aim for 100% sustainability by using only recycled or plant-derived materials for all PET bottles used globally by 2030 and achieving zero use of virgin petroleum-based materials. *P olyethylene caps made from 100 percent plant-derived raw materials in place ethylene, the main raw material. However, except for traces of oil-derived components and coloring components when the manufacturing line is switched 116 Suntory Group Plastic Policy Expressing gratitude toward the Blessings of Nature that are the source of Suntory's products, the Suntory Group will provide strong leadership for transforming into a recycling-oriented and zero carbon society to bring about a world where diverse animal and plant life shines and resonates. With its diversity in usage and convenience, plastic has made our lives easier. The plastic containers and packaging we use serve a useful function, but to prevent them from having a negative impact on the global environment, we will promote problem-solving efforts together with various stakeholders. Each employee of Suntory will work on taking responsible action to solve problems and take the initiative in bringing about a sustainable society. 1.Recycle & Renewable： (1)Aim to switch all the PET bottles used globally for Suntory products to be made of recycled or plant-based material by 2030, achieving zero use of virgin petroleum-based materials. (2)Actively work and collaborate with government agencies, industry, environmental non-governmental and non-profit organizations for the measures necessary to develop an efficient recycling system based on the situation of each country where we do business. 2.Reduce & Replacement: Reduce the amount of plastic used by changing the design of containers and packaging and look for the introduction of alternative containers that do not negatively impact the environment in order to effectively utilize resources. 3.Innovation： Actively invest in innovation for materials and processes that improve the recycling rate and minimize environmental impact. 4.New Behavior： Promote activities that drive change in consumer behavior. Each Suntory employee will work to change their lifestyle, promote sorting and collection, and actively participate in social contribution activities such as cleaning up rivers and beaches. Taking part in a partnership to combat plastic pollution ■Clean Ocean Material Alliance (CLOMA) The Suntory Group has been participating in CLOMA, a public-private alliance established in January 2019 at the request of the Ministry of Economy, Trade and Industry since the alliance was established. Through this alliance, we aim to build an efficient recycling system that responds to country specific conditions by working closely with government agencies and the industry to develop and promote the use of plastic substitute materials and through information dissemination to overseas countries and technical consulting. ■Global Plastic Action Partnership (GPAP) In November 2019, Suntory Group has joined the Global Plastic Action Partnership (GPAP), a global platform that works to effectively and sustainably reduce plastic waste and pollution around the world. GPAP, a global alliance co-founded by a coalition of public and private allies, harnesses the convening power of the World Economic Forum to bring together governments, businesses and civil society in the transition toward a circular economy for plastics. Its diverse network of members includes the governments of the United Kingdom and Canada, influential companies and investors, expert researchers and civil society organizations. In addition to fostering exchange, collaboration and scaling of solutions at the global and regional levels, GPAP is initiating pilot partnerships with the governments of Indonesia, Ghana and Vietnam to address projects at the national level. 117 Recycling technology of used plastic Suntory Group has participated in the alliance that established R Plus Japan Ltd., a joint venture company in partnership with 12 other cross industry partners*1 within the plastics supply chain for developing the cutting-edge recycling technology for used plastics. In 2012, Suntory Group began collaborating with Anellotech, a US-based sustainable technology company for developing key components needed to make 100% plant-based PET bottles. Through this research, the team is leveraging and adapting its process technology to convert mixed plastic waste feedstocks. Many plastic packaging materials are unable to be recycled and are instead thrown away after a single use, often landfilled or incinerated*2. This chemical recycling technology*3 converts single-use plastics directly into basic chemicals such as benzene, toluene, xylenes (BTX), ethylene, and propylene, which can then be used to make new plastics. The technology's process efficiency has the potential to significantly reduce CO2 emissions and energy consumption. Once utilized by industry, this technology will be able to more efficiently recycle single-use plastic, one of the world's most urgent challenges. *1 A s of 6/30. TOYOBO Co. Ltd., Rengo Co. Ltd., Toyo Seikan Group Holdings Ltd., J&T Recycling Corporation, Asahi Group Holdings Ltd., Iwatani Corporation, Dai Nippon Printing Co. Ltd., Toppan Printing Co. Ltd., Fuji Seal International Inc., Hokkaican Co. Ltd., Yoshino Kogyosho Co. Ltd., Sumitomo Chemical Company Ltd. (Sumitomo Chemical Company Ltd is considering their participation.) *2 Including thermal recovery *3 C hemical recycling is a process by which a polymer is chemically reduced to basic chemicals so that it can eventually be processed and remade into new plastic materials that go on to become new plastic products. 118 To Create Harmony To Create Harmony To Create Harmony Corporate with Customers To Create Harmony and Partners with Nature with Society with Employee Governance Climate Change Measures Preventing Global Warming An ongoing stable supply of products will be difficult if the effects of global warming more drastically change the climate patterns as well as greatly impact water resources, which are crucial for soft drink manufacturers. The Suntory Group recognizes global warming as one of the major challenges in business continuity due to the potential risk for great increases in production costs caused by a depletion of resources. Therefore, we need to unify as a Group to prevent global warming with the goal of reducing the environmental impact throughout the entire value chain by joining the environmental efforts of governments and local municipalities and by supporting public policy and regulations aimed to mitigate global warming. Initiatives to combat global warming are debated at Global Sustainability Committee under the guidance of the executives in charge. These initiatives are approved on an annual basis and are overseen by the Board of Directors. 119 To Create Harmony To Create Harmony To Create Harmony Corporate with Customers To Create Harmony and Partners with Nature with Society with Employee Governance Preventing Global Warming Initiatives in Production Reducing CO2 through Energy-saving and Use of Renewable Energy We are committed to energy efficiency at Suntory Group plants through production activities harmonized with the environment. Making records of and managing the operational status centrally is useful for employing energy efficient activities in the production process. Furthermore, we are working to combat global warming from a variety of angles, including by switching to low CO2 emitting fuels and by using renewable energy. Activities being carried out at plants are shared at regularly-held engineer meetings to expand horizontally. ■Reductions Made by Introducing Cogeneration Systems We are utilizing cogeneration system (combined heat and power) in our production activities. This system recovers heat generated from in-house generation and uses it as part of a heat source for preparing beer and extraction of coffee and tea, which increases energy efficiency to 70-80% and reduce CO2 emissions by 20-30%. As of April 2019, the system is introduced at three plants in Japan. These are the Haruna Plant of Suntory Products Ltd, and the Natural Water Beer Plant Tonegawa Brewery in Gunma Prefecture and Kyoto Brewery of Suntory Beer Ltd. Cogeneration system at Tonegawa Brewery ■Switching to Fuels Low in CO2 Emissions Most factories have completed the conversion from using heavy oil to city gas and LNG (liquefied natural gas). These gas fuels have fewer CO2 emissions per unit of heat and they contain almost no sulfur. Liquefied natural gas facility at Okudaisen Bunanomori Water Plant of Suntory Products Ltd. Energy-saving Activities in Accordance with Increase in Production Capability Suntory Beer Ltd. Tonegawa Brewery of Suntory Beer Ltd. has undergone a construction to increase its production capability of beer in 2013. At the same time, latest cauldron was introduced in the preparation stage for efficient use of energy, along with renewing boilers and cooling facility to optimize the energy supply facility. As a result, the energy efficiency improved by about 20% in the plant. New cauldron in Tonegawa Brewery of Suntory Beer Ltd. 120 ■Energy-saving Activities at Overseas Production Sites We are promoting energy-saving activities based on our know-how and technology in Japan even at overseas plants of the Suntory Group. Energy-saving Activities at a Tequila Plant in Mexico We have introduced energy-saving activities to the Sauza Plant in Mexico, which uses a lot of fuel, based on our knowledge and technology in Japan. We have been conducting initiatives to improve the heat recovery rate at distilleries since 2016 and installed a new type of once-through boiler in 2017. Furthermore, these activities have also adopted the 2016 Joint Crediting Mechanism Financial Support Business that contributes to reducing greenhouse gas emissions in developing countries. Newly installed once-through boilers at the Beam Suntory Sauza Plant in Mexico ■Promoting the Use of Renewable Energy We have been increasing the use of various kinds of renewable energy at our plants, including the use of solar power, snow ice, biomass and micro-hydro power. Use of Photovoltaic Energy The Minami Alps Hakushu Water Plant of Suntory Products Ltd. is installed with the largest photovoltaic panels in the beverages industry, capable of generating approximately 490kW of electricity. They provide some of the plant's power, and make it possible for us to reduce our CO2 emissions by approximately 205 tons per year compared to when we buy electricity from a power company. In addition, The Minami Alps Hakushu Water Plant and Hakushu Distillery introduced lithium-ion battery equipped electric buses for the first time in private company for factory visits in 2011, using electricity generated from photovoltaic power generation at the Hakushu Plant. Solar power generation equipment has been installed on some of the roofs and premises by Solar Frontier K.K. and the Development Bank of Japan, Inc. at the Suntory Products Ltd. Haruna Plant and Suntory Beer's Kumamoto Aso Brewery. The two plants generate a combined output of approximately 3.2 MW, which is an equivalent to the yearly power for roughly 660 households. This is estimated to have a CO2 reduction effect of approximately 1,900 tons. Largest scale photovoltaic panels in New lithium-ion battery the beverage industry equipped electric buses Use of Snow and Ice Thermal Energy For the use of snow and ice thermal energy, Iwanohara Vineyard Co., Ltd. takes benefit being located in region of heavy snowfall and installed snow room in 1898 to store snow during winter. The thermal energy of snow is used to control the temperature for fermenting wine and storage, using natural energy in winemaking. Following the tradition, snow room was rebuilt in 2005 and is being used to cool wine-aging warehouse. In Okudaisen Bunanomori Water Plant of Suntory Products Ltd., which also is located Snow room at Okudaisen Bunanomori Water Plant of Suntory in region of heavy snowfall, also implements snow room and used as part of thermal Products Ltd. control during spring. 121 Use of Cold Groundwater We are effectively using cold groundwater that stays at an almost constant temperature (low temperature) throughout the year to cool manufacturing equipment and in other processes at the Hakushu Water Plant of Suntory Products Ltd. In addition, hot and cold water such as effectively recycling heat produced in air compressors and boilers to heat groundwater to prevent condensation when filling plastic bottles with low temperature groundwater. Promoting the Use of Energy from Biomass SUNTORY CHITA DISTILLERY LIMITED. has been using residue liquid from distilling and corn residue when making grain whisky as fuel for generating steam needed to heat when distilling since 1997. Approximately 6,000 tons of CO2 can be reduced by reducing liquefied natural gas (LNG) usage with the use of biomass resources. This is the equivalent of roughly 40% of fuel used at SUNTORY CHITA DISTILLERY LIMITED. ■CO2 emission reduction * Data covers 26 production plants in Japan * Electricity based CO2 emissions are calculated by the adjusted emission factors for each electric power company as specified by the Act on Promotion of Global Warming Countermeasures. The total amount of CO2 emissions decreased by 7.4% and CO2 emissions per unit production decreased by 11.0% compared to 2015. ■Energy consumption Fuel (crude oil conversion) consumption * Data covers 26 production plants in Japan * Crude oil conversion consumption are calculated using a method specified by the Act on the Rational Use of Energy The total amount of fuel increased by 0.9% and fuel amount per unit production increased by 2.9% compared to 2015. 122 Power consumption * Data covers 26 production plants in Japan -T he total amount of power consumption increased by 1.7% and power consumption amount per unit production increased by 3.5% compared to 2018. 123 To Create Harmony To Create Harmony To Create Harmony Corporate with Customers To Create Harmony and Partners with Nature with Society with Employee Governance Preventing Global Warming Initiatives in Distribution Promotion of environment-friendly logistics We are also striving to reduce environmental burden in the logistics transportation and delivery operations which transfix the supply chain flow of material supply, production, and delivery. We carry out highly efficient truck transport utilizing our original allocation system, along with the heavy promotion of modal shifts and utilizing larger sized vehicles. In 2019 sales quantity increase was 101% compared to CO2 emissions which increased 5%≒140,000 tons, and the basic unit was 22.8 (CO2 emissions / 1,000K sales quantity). ■CO2 emissions resulting from logistics transportation (Japan) Promoting the Use of Larger Vehicles The Suntory Group is promoting shipping with large-scale vehicles to lower the number of trucks on the road. In particular, large-size trucks that use a trailer are being promoted in conjunction with efficient allocation of vehicles for shipments to each product vendors from production sites by truck. Promoting Modal Shift We are promoting a modal shift to rail and sea transport which produces fewer CO2 emissions than trucks when transporting over medium to long distances. In 2019, the modal shift rate was 59.0%, 53.4% of which was sea transport and 5.6% of which was rail transport. In the future, we will also steadily promote modal shifts for summer heat waves. 124 ■Changes in modal shift ratio * Changes in the modal shift ratio are calculated based on long-haul (500km or more) trips Suntory Liquors Ltd.* 1 has been certified as 1st Eco Ship Mark*2 certified company in 2009. In addition, Suntory Liquors Ltd. received an Eco-Rail Mark certification from the Ministry of Land, Infrastructure, Transport and Tourism in 2011. *1 Currently Suntory Spirits Ltd. and Suntory Beer Ltd. *2 Eco-ship  Mark system cer tifies cargo owners and logistic operators that use more than set amount of sea cargo that is friendly to the environment. Screened by Businesses with Excellent Eco Ship and Model Shift Selection Committee Eco Ship mark Eco-Rail mark Shipping Through Various Cargo and Shipper Integration The Suntory Group has introduced the Integrated Transportation  Arrangement that calculates the optimal combination of vehicles and routes for various cargo and shipping locations. This reduces the distance and time with the number of trucks to use and the remaining capacity. In addition, we are reducing the environmental burden even further by limiting the loss when transporting goods with efforts such as sharing distribution information with other companies to combining cargo of multiple companies in one truck. We also ask our distribution partners to drive comprehensively in a way that reduces the environmental burden such as using idling stop systems and attaching digital tachometer that enable accurate monitoring and management of vehicle operation status. 125 ■Diagram of Integrated Transportation Arrangement Promoting Initiatives by Cooperating with Distribution Affiliates 201 of our distribution affiliates (as of FY2019) have acquired certifications, such as the ISO14001 (55 sites) and Eco Stage (141 sites) as well as Green Management advocated by the Ministry of Land, Infrastructure, Transport and Tourism, with the aim to further reduce the environmental impact. In addition, in response to amendments to the Rationalization in Energy Use Law, the Suntory Group collected CO2 emissions data such as the monthly distance driven by vehicles, the amount of fuel consumed, and the useful load of distribution af filiates. Moreover, we Green eco bottle are supporting the efforts of affiliate companies in initiatives that include raising awareness such as eco driving and promoting the use of green eco belts that can be uses over and over instead of palette warp to prevent cargo from shifting. Promoting Collaborative Efforts with Other Companies We are promoting distribution through cooperation with other companies such as joint distribution and joint use of containers as transportation measures that will lower the environmental impact. Participating Starting Coordination Description Results Companies Period Joint distribution of softJuly Reduced CO2 emissions Suntory Group Kirin Group drink beverages within Chiba 2009 approx. 46 tons/year prefecture Each company packs cargo on January Reduced CO2 emissions Suntory Logistics Ltd. Toyobo Logistics Co., Ltd. return trips in vehicles that 2010 approx. 100 tons/year only have one-way cargo Toshiba Lighting & January Reduced CO2 emissions Suntory Logistics Ltd. Joint use of railway containers Technology Corporation 2011 approx. 140 tons/year Reduction of Joint distribution in some approximately 330 tons September Suntory Group Four beer companies areas of Hokkaido of CO2 emissions per year 2017 (Kushiro/Nemuro) (*Figures apply to all four beer companies) Reduction of Joint distribution for approximately 1,500 tons transport between Kansai/ April Suntory Group Four beer companies of CO2 emissions per year Chugoku area and Kyushu 2019 (*Figures apply to all four area beer companies) Round-trip use of containers transported by sea (joint use with other companies) One of our social responsibilities is to engage in reduction of the environmental impact caused by transporting import goods. We have been conducting an initiative to handle export goods by jointly using the containers that we use with other companies within the country based on this belief in February 2011. Up until now, we have been able to realize efficient transport reducing our CO2 emissions through the round-trip use of containers that would have flown back Round-trip Use of Containers empty. This initiative was presented the Minister Prize of Economic, Trade and Industry at the Green Logistics Partner Awards announced in December 2013. 126 To Create Harmony To Create Harmony To Create Harmony Corporate with Customers To Create Harmony and Partners with Nature with Society with Employee Governance Preventing Global Warming Energy Conservation in Vending Machines Energy Conservation in Vending Machines We are implementing various initiatives to save energy in vending machines in Japan as one of priority initiatives to reduce CO2 in the entire value chain. ■Key Features of Suntory Vending Machines ■Reducing Energy Consumption of Vending Machines Since we introduced a peak-cut feature in 1995, we have been striving to introduce vending machines with lower consumption of electricity. Since 2007, we have been promoting installation of heat-pump vending machines that facilitate even more efficient energy usage compared to conventional vending machines as main energy-saving machine. Nearly all of the vending machines put into use in 2010 and all new vending machine (excluding some special-function machines) from 2011 were heat-pump models and also LED lighting were installed to them. From 2012, we started introducing Hybrid Heat-pump Vending Machines which can reduce electricity consumption by additional 30% compared to normal Heat-pump Vending Machines. In addition, by fitting refurbished machines*1 with heat-pump equipment, the ratio of heat-pump vending machines against all Suntory vending machines was 81% in the end of 2019. In 2013, Mahou VIN Vending Machines *2 which has a capability of suspending cooling for extended time by to having high refrigerant effect from using vacuum heat insulation materials, etc., in addition to energy saving heat-pump function. This vending machine enables the reduction of both environmental impact and electricity load during the peak hours in summer. *1 Vending machines that have been removed from service, refurbished, and reinstalled for retail use *2Vending machine that is capable of suspending cooling for extended time due to high refrigerant effect by using vacuum heat insulation materials, etc. Refrigeration is suspended for 8 to 14 hours each day. 127 What is a heat-pump vending machine? In Japan, a heat-pump vending machine is a vending machine with a built in system to collect heat generated by the cooling chamber for the heating chamber. These vending machines largely contribute to energy saving through function to effectively use heat inside the vending machine and latest machine can even exchange heat with the atmosphere. ■Introducing Extremely-Energy-Saving Vending Machines In April 2014, we began adopting Extremely-Energy-Saving Vending Machines (Eco Active Machines) that operate on approximately half the energy consumption (420kWh/year) compared to conventional heat-pump vending machines with the cooperation of machinery manufacturers the use of to further aim to contribute to reducing environmental impact. It stores two compressors, one dedicated to heating and other cooling and uses various latest technologies such as inverter control, vacuum heat insulation materials, electronic expansion valve and LED lighting to control energy consumption to an optimum condition to realize reducing electricity consumption.  Sanden Holdings Corporation ■Promoting a 24-hour Lights Out To promote reductions in CO2 emission and combat global warming, vending machine manufacturers have promoted energy-saving measures since 1991, prior to establishment of the Kyoto Protocol. As a result, during the 15 years leading up to 2005, we achieved an approximate 50% reduction in energy consumption per vending machine. The industry also agreed to aim for a further 37% reduction by 2012, in comparison to 2005 figures, with indoor vending machines having a 24-hour Lights Out rule and outdoor machines having no lighting during daytime hours*. The industry met its goal in 2011. As a follow-up midterm goal, the industry is now aiming for 50% of the 2005 figure by 2020. * Reduces about 10% of power usage by turning off the lights during the day time, about 20% by 24 hours 128 ■Measures Against Chlorofluorocarbon Controlled chlorofluorocarbons that destroy the ozone layer are not used for refrigerants in our vending machines today. New vending machines that are introduced also use no chlorofluorocarbons substitutes that have a large impact on global warming. All of our machines use a refrigerant with a low global warming coefficient such as natural refrigerants and R-1234yf. ■Initiatives to Reuse Vending Machine Parts We are actively conducting initiatives to realize effective use of resources even in vending machines. We are advancing development of technology toward the reuse of parts as well as management systems for the reuse of parts in order to use vending machine parts that are collected in vending machines again. In 2019, the reuse rate of parts that required repair or maintenance was 62%. We are striving to effectively use resources by expanding the components to reuse parts even further in the future. ■Ensuring Reasonable Waste Disposal of Vending Machines We are leading the industry in building a Vending Machine Waste Disposal System that collects and recycles vending machines to throw away, which we have expanded nationally since January 1997. We are strictly managing disposal from the initial selection of vending machines to discard to the final disposal in compliance with the revisions to the Wastes Disposal and Public Cleansing Act in April 2001. We are properly processing broken machines by understanding the amount of machines to collect based on the Act for Rationalized Use and Proper Management of Fluorocarbons even in regards to the fluorocarbons that are used as a refrigerant in vending machines. ■Installation of Vending Machines to Provide Beverages in Emergencies We are developing and advancing the installation of vending machines to provide beverages in emergencies to contribute to building cities able to combat disasters. This system normally sells beverages from vending machines in peace times but will provide them for free during emergencies such as when disasters strike. Beverages can be easily accessed even if the power goes out. Many people used this system after the Great East Japan Earthquake that struck in March of 2011. We are progressing with the installation of these vending machines centered Emergency beverage vending machine upon public institutions, hospitals, and companies with roughly 24,000 units put in place through the end of 2019 by implementing wire type vending machines that have the benefit of not requiring maintenance in addition to battery-type vending machines. In Japan, we plan to actively introduce these types of vending machines in the future. 129 To Create Harmony To Create Harmony To Create Harmony Corporate with Customers To Create Harmony and Partners with Nature with Society with Employee Governance Preventing Global Warming Initiatives in Sales, R&D, Offices, etc. Environmental Activities in Sales Divisions ■Reducing Environmental Impact of Sales Vehicles We are promoting introduction of hybrid vehicles and other energy-saving vehicles for use in sales activities. In addition, we have introduced vehicle traffic control system that acquire travel data such as distance traveled, driving behavior and fuel efficiency in sales vehicles. We promote safe driving and eco-driving by feeding back the result of the analysis of collected data. ■More efficient Vending Machine Operations by Introducing Wireless Systems Suntory Beverage Service Ltd., which includes secondary products for soft drink vending machines to expand the vending machine operations each day, introduced wireless systems to vending machines operating throughout Japan in 2013. We are able to analyze information such as the type and amount of products for refilling, the timing for refilling, and the most efficient route for refilling of each vending machine while allowing us to instantaneously obtain the sales trends of each and every vending machine. We have reduced the number of visits to vending machines through the use of this wireless system, which has connected to reducing environmental impact by decreasing power lost when opening and shutting vending machines when conducting operations such as refilling products. Environmental Activities in R&D Sites Since acquiring ISO14001 certification in 2007, the R&D sites (World Research Center/product development center) where about 700 employees work has been promoting environmental activities incorporated in daily work in the entire division. In 2013, the site acquired comprehensive certification from an external certification agency to operate under the ISO14001 throughout the entire Group to strengthen coordination with other divisions as a Research & Technology Development Division that has strong connection with the Group's entire value chain. It also promotes activities to reduce environmental impact in corporation with plants and sales divisions while incorporating environmental considerations into daily operations. ■Latest Environmentally-friendly Equipment Suntory World Research Center introduced equipment to reduce the environmental impact such as an arrangement of LED lighting through the entire facility, automated control of lighting and airflow through image sensors, temperature difference water supply, and the application of hybrid heat source equipment to concurrently use natural gas and electricity while eagerly using natural energy such as the application of top lights* 1 that actively let in natural light. The same center has acquired Class S, which is the highest class of the Comprehensive Assessment System for Built Suntory World Research Center Environment Efficiency (CASBEE)*2. The furniture and construction materials also utilize Ikurinzai timber from cultivated forests*3 of the Suntory Tennensui (Mineral Water) Natural Water Sanctuaries. *1 Top light: Windows installed on roofs for natural light and ventilation *2 C ASBEE: Environmental per formance assessment for building overall developed by the Institute for Building Environment and Energy Conservation with the support of Ministry of Land, Infrastructure, Transport and Tourism in 2001. *3 IIkurinzai Timber from cultivated forests: Suntory Group calls wood material made from activities to nurture sustainable water and forests Ikurinzai timber from cultivated forests 130 Environmental activities in the restaurant business The Pronto Corporation is promoting environmental management through a variety of environmental initiatives, including the Pronto Love Green activity that donates a portion of the revenue from menus and the total amount of in-store donations to environmental greening, the adoption of glasses to use in stores made from recycled bottles of Kakubin Whisky, the provision of a choice menu of domestic ingredients that give diners a taste of the local bounty, reduction of food waste as well as the adoption of energy saving equipment. Furthermore, Pronto Corporation satisfied the certification criteria for the first restaurant eco mark in Japan as a certification program for restaurants created by the Eco Mark Office in 2017 and earned the right to use the eco mark for chain restaurants. The Pronto Love Green Activity that has been underway since 2008 donated a total of 102,500,874 yen in 2019 and was given letters of thanks three times from the Minister of Agriculture, Forestry, and Fisheries. Environmental Activity in the Office ■Installing Energy-saving Equipment and Reduction of CO2 and Water Consumption by Employee Action Various initiatives are carried out by all employees daily with higher awareness on saving energy in each office. The Odaiba Office in Tokyo installs photovoltaic power generation, use of reused water, automatic lighting control system, and human detection sensors for lights in toilets and escalators. Reduction of CO2 emission are being promoted in each office by implementing cool biz and warm biz and actively using web conference system. Solar power generation system of the Odaiba office 131 To Create Harmony To Create Harmony To Create Harmony Corporate with Customers To Create Harmony and Partners with Nature with Society with Employee Governance Preventing Global Warming Green Procurement and Purchase We promote procurement of ingredients, materials and equipment that have low environmental impact through cooperating with each business partner. Promoting Green Procurement Green procurement is selecting items and services that consider the environment, such as by not including hazardous substances or efficient use of resources, when selecting ingredients, materials and equipment to purchase. Suntory Group has established Suntory Group Green Procurement Standard (revised 2011) based on the Suntory Group's Basic Policy on Supply Chain Sustainability and promotes procurement activities to lower environmental impact in corporation with each business partner. Suntory Group Green Procurement Standard (revised 2011) 1.Basic policy Suntory Group strives to purchase ingredients, materials and services that have the lowest environmental impact as possible for items and services used in the Group to build a sustainable society. 2.Prioritized items a）Consider not to use environmentally polluting substances, etc. b）Consider resourceand energy-saving through use of renewable resources, miniaturization, etc. c）Consider resources collection that does not damage the ecosystem d）Long-term use is possible through repair, parts replacement, etc. e）Whether if it is reusable f ）Whether if it is design to be recyclable g）Whether if it is easy to dispose or treat h）Whether if it is environmental information about the item is disclosed i ）Consider the items is manufactured or sold by business operator that actively engages in environmental preservation such as acquiring ISO14001 Promoting Green Purchase When actually purchasing an item, we promote Green Purchase based on the Green Purchase Guideline which sets standards for determining whether it's a Green Purchase with the goal of making more Green Purchases than in the previous year. We also implement online purchasing system that registers a standard Green Qualified Items and deploying it to Group companies. Furthermore, we uses work uniforms made using fibers from recycled PET bottles according to seasons in production plants. 132 To Create Harmony To Create Harmony To Create Harmony Corporate with Customers To Create Harmony and Partners with Nature with Society with Employee Governance Preventing Global Warming Reducing CO2 Emissions throughout the Value Chain Reducing CO2 Emissions throughout the Value Chain We have set challenges for each division to reduce CO2 emissions throughout the value chain related to our domestic operations, from raw material procurement, manufacture, distribution, sales to recycling. We are striving to meet the Environmental Targets toward 2030 for a 25% reduction in Scope 1 and Scope 2 emissions and a 20% reduction of Scope 3 emissions throughout the entire Suntory Group worldwide. 2019 Results With the globalization of business, we are advancing to identify the results in each area. ■Scope 1/Scope 2 emissions Area CO2 emissions (thousand tons) Per unit reduction rate* Japan 441 1.3% reduction Americas 224 4.8% increase Europe 118 6.9% increase Asia 170 6.0% reduction Oceania 14 1.1% reduction Africa 6 35.8% reduction Total 973★ (Scope 1: 565★; Scope 2: 408★） 7.6% reduction * Data covers 26 production plants in Japan and 61 production plants overseas, and non-production sites in Japan (base of operations, R&D facilities, sales sites, restaurants and development sites). * The above emissions do not take into account the emissions offset by purchasing carbon credits. If the offset emissions which are approximately 60 thousand tons, are taken into account, the total of Scope 1 and 2 emissions will be 916 thousand tons in 2019. (Carbon credits we purchased were generated from projects, such as a project facilitating reforestation for Guangxi watershed management in Pearl River Basin supported by the BioCarbon Fund of the World Bank.) * CO2 emissions per unit production are the amount of emissions per kiloliter produced; the reduction rate is shown as a comparison to the previous year *E mission factors for GHG calculation are as follows: Fuel: For Japan: Factors specified by the Act on the Rational Use of Energy and the Act on Promotion of Global Warming Countermeasures. For overseas: Factors obtained from fuel suppliers or factors specified by the Act on the Rational Use of Energy and the Act on Promotion of Global Warming Countermeasures. CO2 from Electricity consumption: For Japan: The adjusted emission factors for each electric power company specified by the Act on Promotion of Global Warming Countermeasures. For Overseas: As a general rule, emissions factors obtained from electricity suppliers were used. When those could not be obtained, emission factors for each country in 2017 from IEA World Energy Outlook 2019 were used. 133 GHG other than CO2: For 26 plants in Japan: Factors specified by the Act on Promotion of Global Warming Countermeasures. * Of which, CO2 emissions from the Suntory Beverage & Food Group are 500 thousand tons★ (Scope 1: 240 thousand tons★ Scope 2: 261 thousand tons★). * The change in the amount of emissions from the base year 2015 was a 6.4% increase. * The total may not match the sum of each figure due to rounding. * The numbers marked with ★ are certified by a third party on the Suntory Sustainability website. ■Scope 3 Emissions Suntory Group Emissions Category Calculation Method (thousand tons) Calculated by multiplying the weight of purchased raw materials and packages for products produced and sold by the food and liquor businesses 1. P  urchased goods and of Suntory Group (Japan and overseas) by emissions factors. For products 3,732★ services produced and sold in Japan, CO 2 emissions by subcontrac t s during production, during the production of impor ted products, and during transport of imported ingredients are included. Calculated by multiplying the amount of capital expenditure by the 2. Capital Goods 378 food and liquor businesses of Suntory Group (in Japan and overseas) by emissions factors. 3. F  uel-and energy-related Calculated by multiplying the amount of energy consumed by the food and activities not included in 119 liquor businesses of Suntory Group (in Japan and overseas) by emissions Scope 1 or 2 factors. Calculated by multiplying the transportation volume in tons-km of goods 4. Upstream transportation 281 owned by the food and liquor businesses of Suntory Group (in Japan and and distribution overseas) by emissions factors. Calculated by multiplying the weight of waste disposed by the food and 5. W  aste generated in 23 liquor businesses of Suntory Group (in Japan and overseas) by emissions operations factors. Calculated by multiplying the amount of business travel expenses of the 6. Business travel 10 food and liquor businesses of Suntory Group (in Japan and overseas) by emissions factors. Calculated by multiplying the amount of commuting expenses of the 7. Employee commuting 29 food and liquor businesses of Suntory Group (in Japan and overseas) by emissions factors. Calculated by multiplying the floor area of distribution centers rented by 8. Upstream leased assets 10 the food and liquor businesses of Suntory Group (in Japan and overseas) by emissions factors. 9. D ownstream Calculated by multiplying the transportation volume and sales volume of transportation and 206 goods of the food and liquor businesses of Suntory Group (in Japan and distribution overseas) by emissions factors. 10. Processing of sold 0 None products Calculated by multiplying the sales volume of goods of the food and liquor 11. Use of sold products 40 businesses of Suntory Group (in Japan and overseas) by emissions factors. Calculated by multiplying the weight of packaging materials for products 12. E  nd-of-life treatment of 261 sold by the food and liquor businesses of Suntory Group (in Japan and sold products overseas) by emissions factors. Calculated by multiplying the amount of elec tricity used by vending 13. D  ownstream leased 530 machines leased by the food and liquor businesses of Suntory Group (in assets Japan and overseas) by emissions factors. 14. Franchises 0 None 15. Investments 0 None * Data for the food and liquor businesses of Suntory Group (Japan and overseas). * For some overseas group companies, values were estimated by using Japan-based emission factors and emission per unit production. * The numbers marked with ★ are certified by a third party on the Suntory Sustainability website. 134 Suntory Beverage & Food Ltd. Emissions Category Calculation Method (thousand tons) Calculated by multiplying the weight of purchased raw materials and packages for products produced and sold by the Suntory Beverage & Food 1. P urchased goods and Group (Japan and overseas) by emissions factors. For products produced 2,531★ services and sold in Japan, CO2 emissions by subcontracts during production, during the production of imported products, and during transport of imported ingredients are included. Calculated by multiplying the amount of capital expenditure of Suntory 2. Capital Goods 220 Beverage & Food (Japan and overseas) by emissions factors. 3. F  uel-and energy-related Calculated by multiplying the amount of energy consumed by Suntory activities not included in 61 Beverage & Food (Japan and overseas) by corresponding emissions factors. Scope 1 or 2 Calculated by multiplying the transportation volume in tons-km of goods 4. U pstream transportation 201 owned by Suntory Beverage & Food (Japan and overseas) by corresponding and distribution emissions factors. 5. Waste generated in Calculated by multiplying the weight of wa ste disposed by Suntor y 18 operations Beverage & Food (Japan and overseas) by corresponding emissions factors. Calculated by multiplying the amount of business travel expenses of 6. Business travel 7 Suntory Beverage & Food (Japan and overseas) by corresponding emissions factors. Calculated by multiplying the amount of commuting expenses of Suntory 7. Employee commuting 20 Beverage & Food (Japan and overseas) by corresponding emissions factors. Calculated by multiplying the floor area of distribution centers rented by 8. Upstream leased assets 8 Suntory Beverage & Food (Japan and overseas) by corresponding emissions factors. 9. Downstream Calculated by multiplying the transportation volume and sales volume of transportation and 167 goods of Suntory Beverage & Food (Japan and overseas) by corresponding distribution emissions factors. 10. Processing of sold 0 None products Calculated by multiplying the sales volume of goods of Suntory Beverage & 11. Use of sold products 33 Food (Japan and overseas) by corresponding emissions factors. Calculated by multiplying the weight of packaging materials for products 12. End-of-life treatment of 230 sold by of goods of Suntory Beverage & Food (Japan and overseas) by sold products corresponding emissions factors. Calculated by multiplying the amount of elec tricity used by vending 13. Downstream leased 488 machines leased by of goods of Suntor y Beverage & Food ( Japan and assets overseas) by corresponding emissions factors. 14. Franchises 0 None 15. Investments 0 None * Data for the businesses of Suntory Beverage & Food (Japan and overseas). * For some overseas group companies, values were estimated by using Japan-based emission factors and emission per unit production. * The numbers marked with ★ are certified by a third party on the Suntory Sustainability website. ■Measures Against Global Warming The Suntory Group is also working to combat the effects of global warming. The Suntory Group strives to raise awareness about ways to prevent heat stroke with the rising temperatures at elementary schools and companies with efforts that include the free provision of posters and leaflets (total of 11,860,000 copies distributed as of February 2019) to raise awareness about preventing heat stroke created together with The Education Newspaper to elementary schools throughout Japan and the support of heat stroke measures at each school. We are also linking to other activities to raise awareness about heat stroke by manufacturing and selling GREEN DAKARA which is recommended as a countermeasure to heat exhaustion*4. *4 The Ministry of Health, Labor, and Welfare recommends 40-80mg of sodium per 100m as a countermeasure to heat exhaustion. 135 To Create Harmony To Create Harmony To Create Harmony Corporate with Customers To Create Harmony and Partners with Nature with Society with Employee Governance Climate Change Measures Effective Use of Resources Aiming to help bring about a recycling-oriented society, we promote the effective use of various resources such as water and other bounties of nature. 136 To Create Harmony To Create Harmony To Create Harmony Corporate with Customers To Create Harmony and Partners with Nature with Society with Employee Governance Effective Use of Resources Effective Use of Water Resources We are conserving water in our plants and returning waste water to nature after purifying it to avoid impact on the natural circulation of water. Enhanced 3Rs for Water to Reduce Water use The Suntory Group's plants use a large amount of water, for example, in cleaning production equipment and cooling, in addition to using it as an ingredient in our products. In order to conserve limited water resources, we intensify our activities to achieve targets toward 2030 of Reduce water consumption at the Suntory Group plants worldwide by 15%* 1 through enforcement of 3Rs for water, ensuring that the minimum amount of water is required (Reduce), water can be used repeatedly (Reuse), and water can be processed and used elsewhere (Recycle). *1 Reduction per unit production based on the business fields in 2015 ■Water Use Performance 2019 Area Water use (thousand m3) Change in amount of usage per unit production* Japan 21,310 2.2％ decrease Americas 8,081 3.1％ increase Europe 6,245 7.6% decrease Asia 7,154 18.3% decrease Oceania 544 5.2％ decrease Africa 129 2.2％ decrease Total 43,463★ 7.9％ decrease * Data covers 26 production plants in Japan and 61 production plants overseas * Per unit production is the amount of usage per kiloliter produced; the reduction rate is shown as a comparison to the previous year * The reduction rate was 14.2% from 2015, which is the base year. * Therein, the water use by Suntory Beverage & Food Group companies in Japan and overseas was 23,244 thousand m3★ * The numbers marked with ★ are certified by a third party on the Suntory Sustainability website. 137 ■Water use * Data covers 26 production plants in Japan * Per unit production is the amount of usage per kiloliter produced Result: Total amount decreased by 3.8% and 2.2% per unit production compared to previous year ■Applying 3Rs in Water Usage When selecting equipment and devices in our plants, we follow the 3Rs of Water : Reduce the amount of water as much as possible, Reuse water, and Recycle water through treatment. A variety of activities related to the 3Rs are being implemented at the Minami Alps Hakushu Water Plant of Suntory Products Ltd. In particular, thanks to our use of a sophisticated water cascade recycling process, we are an industry leader in terms of per unit production in relation to the volume of water used. The Minami Alps Hakushu Water Plant Reuse of water recycled at each stage of Suntory Products Ltd. of cleaning stored in 200 ton tanks Using Cascades of Water Water used in the manufacturing process is classified into five grades, including coolant water, cleaning water, ets., based on quality. This technology allows plants to recycle water to be used in subsequent processes, for example, using the highest grade water in the most demanding process, and recycling it for use in a process with less stringent requirements. 138 ■Amount of water usage by water source Amount of water（thousand m3） Intake source 2017 2018 2019 Groundwater 19,676 20,491 19,495 Rivers/lakes 12,791 13,210 12,813 Rain water 1 1 0 City water 9,630 10,948 11,155 Water supplied from external sources (recycled water) 4 0 0 Total 42,101 44,650 43,463 * Data covers 26 production plants in Japan and 61 production plants overseas in 2019 ■Effective Use of Rainwater Japan is fortunate to have plentiful rainfall, and rainwater is one of our important resources. The Suntory Group accumulates rainwater in tanks for use in watering plants. Suntory Products Ltd. Kanagawa Ayase Plant uses rainwater to water plants 139 Comprehensive Waste Water Management The Suntory Group established voluntary standards for waste water that are equally or stricter than the legal regulations and manages quality so that we may release waste water in a state as close to nature as possible. Waste water from our plants is first purified using anaerobic waste water treatment facilities* and other equipment before it is released into sewers and rivers. Inspectors use measuring equipment to take daily readings of things like water quality under a constant monitoring regime. To further stabilize waste treatment facilities in plant in Japan, we are holding regular meeting attended by person in charge of waste water from every plant to improve the level of operation management and system to prevent troubles from 2014. * A treatment method that decomposes pollutants using microbes (anaerobic bacteria) ■Water discharge Waste Water（thousand m3） Destination 2017 2018 2019 Rivers/lakes 15,968 15,732 14,481 Sea 1,086 153 1,061 Sewers 7,830 8,364 8,707 Others (for watering plants, etc.) 48 28 61 Total 24,932 24,277 24,310 * Data covers 26 production plants in Japan and 61 production plants overseas in 2019 * Therein, the waste water from Suntory Beverage & Food Ltd. plants in Japan and overseas amounts to 11,938 thousand m3 24-hour waste water management system Meeting of persons in charge of waste water 140 To Create Harmony To Create Harmony To Create Harmony Corporate with Customers To Create Harmony and Partners with Nature with Society with Employee Governance Effective Use of Resources 3R in Containers and Packaging We consider the environment in the entire product life cycle from planning and product design to transport and postconsumption recycling. Setting Environmental Standards for Containers and Packaging Containers and packaging protect and preserve the quality of products until reaching the customers. However, most of them become waste af ter the content is consumed by the customer. Suntory Group recognizes the social and environmental impacts that containers and packaging cause and established voluntary Guidelines for the Environmental Design of Containers and Packaging in 1997. Designs are made following the Guideline such as selecting material for labels and color of glass bottles that consider recycling. In addition, we are engaging in initiatives from the stand point of Life Cycle Assessment (LCA) to reduce environmental impact of containers and packaging. 3Rs of Containers and Packaging The Suntory Group works to develop containers and packaging that give consideration to the environment, based on the 3Rs of Reduce, Reuse, and Recycle . We work on designs that take into account usability from the point of consumption by the customer to recycling, and focus on designs that are lighter as well as use materials that have a lower impact on the environment and are easier to recycle. We also work in collaboration with various recycling organizations and local governments to promote recycling. ■Policy on 3Rs of Containers and Packaging 141 Initiatives in Plastic Bottles We are dramatically decreasing the amount of resources that we use and are actively introducing renewable resources as a measure to limit the environmental impact as much as possible. At the same time, we are conducting design and development while also taking into account the usability by customers. ■2R+B strategy In regards to plastic bottle containers, we are striving forward according to our 2R +B strategy that is unique to Suntory. The concept is to make thoroughly efficient use of resources by reducing the amount of resins used, and by using recycled materials, while replacing petroleum-based raw materials with bio-based raw materials as much as possible in the development. ■Reduce: Lightweighting Environmentally-friendly Green Eco Bottle*1 The 550 plastic-bottled (Mineral Water) Suntory Tennensui renewed in May 2013 is packaged in the lightest plastic bottle in Japan*2 (11.3g) developed by Suntory's technology, which resulted in approximately 40% reduction of using petroleumderived ingredients per bottle. The weight of 2 bottles is reduced by 20% per bottle compared to conventional bottles. By bringing the weight to 29.8g, we were the first in Japan to achieve the weight of less than 30g for 2 bottles. *1 A  n original name we give to PET bottles that have reduced environmental impact by using Green eco bottle methods such as ground breaking weight saving such as realizing lightest weight bottle in Japan or using plant based materials. *2 Plastic bottles for mineral water (500  to 600 ) in Japan. As of April 2019 Introducing Record Breaking Thinnest Roll Label*1 for Plastic Bottle Beverages in Japan We are reducing the weight of produc t labels on pla s tic bot tles to reduce environmental impact. We were able to realize the thinnest plastic bottle roll label in Japan at 16µm (micrometer*2) in 2012. An even thinner label at 12µm has been introduced to the 2 plastic bottles and 550 plastic bottles of our Suntory Tennensui mineral water in April 2014. Thereafter, we have been advancing the expansion to all of our products that use roll labels. This has allowed us to reduce CO2 emissions 25%*3 compared to conventional labels. 12µm thick role label, thinnest in *1 T  hese labels are not removed through the use of perforations; instead, the glued portion is Japan peeled off. *2 1/1,000mm *3 Reduction rate in the film (label) manufacturing process 142 Adoption of the Japan's lightest bottle cap that uses 100% bio-based PET materials*1. We are also reducing our environmental impact in the bottle caps on plastic bottles. Since September 2016, we have adopted 1.85g bottle caps, which are the lightest in Japan*1 that use 30% bio-based PET materials for Suntory MinamiAlps Tennensui mineral. This innovation reduces the use of petroleum-derived raw materials by 35%*2 and decreases CO2 emissions by 27% compared to conventional PET bottle caps. In addition, we have evolved our environmental efforts by using biomaterials and from March 2019 started using a polyethylene cap made ethylene which is 100% plant-derived for our 550  Suntory Aso Natural Water bottles at our Kyushu Kumamoto Plant (Kamimashiki District, Kumamoto Prefecture). This innovation reduces the use of petroleumderived raw materials by 90%*2 and decreases CO2 emissions by 56% compared to current PET bottle caps. *1 * 2 Polyethylene caps made from 100 percent plant-derived raw materials in place ethylene, the main raw material. However, except for traces of oil-derived components and coloring components when the manufacturing line is switched *2 As of April 2019 *3 One bottle of Suntory Tennensui Mineral Water (550) *4 One bottle cap of Suntory Tennensui Mineral Water (550) Evaluation from Society Suntor y Beverage & Food Ltd. was awarded the 2016 Minister of the Environment Award for Promoters of the Development of a Recycling-Oriented Society for the high praise that it received for activities to reduce the environmental impact, which includes the adoption of the world's first soft drink plastic bottle cap that uses 30% bio-based PET materials. Primary lightweight plastic bottle products Initiatives in In-house Blow Molding PET Bottles In Minami Alps Hakushu Water Plant of Suntory Products Ltd., PET bottles are manufactured by blowing PET preform from PET resin. A comprehensive design and management from shaping bottles to filling them is made possible, making it easier to reduce the amount of resin used and weight of the bottle. In addition, use of fuel and CO2 emission from transporting and purchasing already made PET bottles. Furthermore, we reuse high pressure air used during shaping of PET bottles to use energy effectively and reduce CO2 emission. PET resin CO2 emissions can be reduced Preform made from resin Shaped PET bottle 50% or more. 143 Plastic Bottle Development in the Spirits Business We are taking great advantage of the technology cultivated in our soft drink business in our spirits business. Suntory Spirits Ltd. has launched the 4 110g plastic bottle, which is the lightest in Japan, to whisky products such as Kakubin, Torys and other alcoholic products starting from June 2016. We are reducing the amount of the PET plastic used through a maximum of an 18% reduction from the conventional 134g and 120g bottles to reduce the yearly CO2 emissions by approximately 460 tons (17%)*. The bottles are also been made easy-to-use by removing the handle area that had adopted conventional PET bottles and applying a new grip area deep in the center of the bottle with the cooperation of plastic bottle manufacturers. * Company calculations Old 4 plastic bottle and new lightweight 4 plastic bottle Development of Extremely Lightweight* Heat-resistant Plastic Bottles Through the Use of Japanese Technological Skill The Japanese manufacturing technology and design skills for reducing weight of plastic bottles have been used in Group companies in Europe. In 2017, we have successfully developed a heat-resistant PET bottle for Vietnam that is the lightest in South East Asia (18g). Creating the lightest heat-resistant bottle project was a technological challenge in this region, but we have succeeded in the project through mutual cooperation with Suntory MONOZUKURI Expert, Ltd. and Suntory PepsiCo Vietnam Beverage Co., Ltd. * For 500 class heat-resistance PET bottles (at the time of introduction in April 2019) Lightest heat-resistant bottle in South East Asia As an initiative to fur ther reduce the weight of PET bottles, we succeeded in developing an even lighter 17g heat-resistant PE T bot tle through utilizing a technology to prevent bottles from deforming by injecting nitrogen and pressurizing the bottle. This bottle was introduced to Suntory Garuda Beverage in Indonesia in 2018. In 2019, we have introduced the technology to Suntory PepsiCo Beverage Thailand in Thailand to promote reducing weight of PET bottles. Lightest nitrogen instilled heatresistant bottle in South East Asia 144 ■Recycle: Recycling Plastic Bottles RePET Bottles for Horizontal Recycling of PET Resin in Japan In 2011, Suntory Beverage & Food Ltd. partnered with Kyoei Sangyo Co., Ltd. to develop the Japanese beverage industry's first B-to-B*1 mechanical recycling system*2 for PET bottles. Reused PET resin was 50% at the time of introduction but after confirming that stable supply was possible after about a year of operation, we increased the percentage of reused PET resin to 100%. This realized manufacturing of reused PET bottle that reduce CO2 emission (including CO2 emission from manufacturing PET resin) by 83%*3 compared to bottles made by 100% oil based materials. This PET bottle using 100% reused PET resin is used for many products including 2 Suntory Oolong Tea and Iyemon. This system received Commendation for Contributors to the Development of a Recycling-oriented Society in 2011 and 2012, and Commendation for Global Warming Prevention (Technological Development and Commercialization Category) in 2011 both from the Minister of the Environment, and Nikkei Global Environmental Technology Excellence Award in 2011 for the first time in the food industry. We also received the 21st Global Environment Award in 2012 and Environmental Excellence Award hosted by the Hitachi Environment Foundation and Nikkan Kogyo Shimbun, Ltd. in 2013. *1 B-to-B: Bottle to bottle, signifying the creation of a new PET bottle from a recycled one. *2 Mechanical recycling: The pulverization, cleansing, and return of used products to a material status. Recovered resin is processed for a regulated period under high temperatures and low pressure to remove impurities from the regenerated materials, yielding reclaimed PET resin suitable for use in bottle production. *3 Compared with virgin resin Adoption of F-to-P direct recycling technology In 2017, as part of our recycling efforts, we worked with Kyoei Sangyo Co., Ltd. and overseas machine manufacturers (EREMA in Austria and SIPA in Italy) to succeed in developing F-to-P direct recycling technology expected to be effective in further reducing the environmental burden, and started manufacturing in the fall of 2018. F-to-P direct recycling technology can directly manufacture preforms after processing crushed and cleaned flake from recycled PET bottles through a high-temperature dissolving process. Compared to the conventional system which required several processes such as crystallization and drying before manufacturing preforms, the F-to-P direct recycling technology can reduce CO2 emissions 25%* (manufacturing 1kg of preforms for PET bottles). F-to-P direct recycling equipment Products that use F-to-P direct recycling technology * Processes from spent PET bottles to the preform 145 Introducing and Promoting Product Labels Made with Recycled PET Bottles Suntory Beverage & Food Ltd. introduced product label made with recycled PET bottles in part of 2 bottles for major non-alcoholic beverages such as (Mineral Water) Suntory Tennensui, Iyemon and Suntory Oolong Tea in November 2010 and currently uses role label* method for all its products. This label is the first role label in the industry to use recycled PET bottles and the percentage of recycle PET bottles used has been increased from 60% to 80% in March 2012. Roll label made with recycled *T hese labels are not removed through the use of perforations; instead, the glued portion is PET bottles peeled off. ■Bio: Actively Use of Plant-derived Resin Aiming for 100% plant-derived plastic The Suntory Group aims to replace petroleum-derived raw materials with renewable raw materials as much as possible in the development of plastic bottles. We implemented plastic bottles that use 30% bio-based PET materials for the 550 (Mineral Water) Suntory Tennensui in 2013. Suntory Holdings Ltd. and Anellotech, Inc., a green innovation and technology company in the United States, have worked in a collaborative development of a plastic bottle Development and testing plant that uses 100% plant-derived raw materials, and construction has begun in 2016 on a development and testing plant to produce plastic bottle materials in the state of Texas. We are planning to initiate the introduction of plastic bottles made from 100% biobased PET materials around the (Mineral Water) brand of Suntory Beverage & Food Ltd. in the future. In development, we are aiming to generate only plant-derived raw materials of non-foodstuff (wood chips) so that we do not impact the supply chain of foodstuff ingredients with paraxylene, which is a precursor of terephthalic acid that makes up 70% of the raw materials for plastic bottles. Efforts in Cans, Glass Bottles, and Barrels ■Reduce: Lightweighting Lightweighting in Cans We are furthering the lightweighting in cans such as those used for beer and coffee by aiming to dramatically reduce the amount of resources that are used while maintaining the usability for customers. We have conducted initiatives for aluminum cans that include shrinking the diameter of the lid of beer cans in 2008 and the bodies of aluminum cans containing lowalcohol beverages such as beer and Chu-Hi in 2014. In addition, the promotion of Boss Rainbow Mountain Blend even more lightweighting is underway with the introduction of thinner bodies even The Premium Malt's -196℃ chu-hi Strong Zero in steel cans for coffee. <Double Lemon> 146 Lightweighting in Glass Bottles The medium-sized glass bottle for The Premium Malt's has achieved weight savings of roughly 10g to 460g in 2014. The thickness of the body section that the label is adhered has been designed 0.2 to 0.3 millimeters thinner to prevent damage by bumping into other bottles. We are also improving the shape of the bottle so it does not get damaged when opening the bottle with cap opener and other improvements in the quality of the bottle. The Premium Malt's medium glass bottle ■Reuse: Promoting Collection and Reuse of Containers Reusing Glass Bottles and Barrels Returnable containers (bottles, barrels, etc.) for beers and non-alcoholic beverages for restaurants are used often and we collect them via our own route and wash them for repeated use (in 2017, 94 million bottles were collected and reused). Furthermore, we support the collection of glass bottles that are disposed of by liquor stores and restaurants through building collection routes in the distribution channel by specialized business operators since 1974. Non-returnable bottles are also effectively separated and collection routes utilized such as in each municipal. Initiatives for Paper Packs and Cardboard ■Reduce: Lightweighting Reducing Weight of Cardboard As part of the initiative, short flap cardboard cartons for beverages of small size plastic bottles started from spring of 2012 based on the philosophy of reducing environmental impact in corporation with the industry. Through this, we reduced the use of paper by about 20% compared to conventional cardboards. Short flap cardboards have been introduced for beer and RTD products since 2019. Short flap cardboard cartons that reduce cardboard usage on its sides ■Recycle: Easier-to-Collect Containers Shifting to recyclable paper containers Paper containers were introduced for shochu and spirits in April 2010 and for wines in February 2014. Approximately 90% of the containers for alcoholic beverages have been changed to more recyclable paper containers.* 1 We have been using containers with evaporated aluminum on its inside for preserving quality but it was difficult to separate paper and aluminum when recycling. The new paper container implements vapor deposition of non-aluminum transparent material to improve ease of recycling. *1 A s of May 2020 Wheat Shochu Muginoka Suntory Umeshu Delica Maison 147 Achieved 100% Use of FSC-certified Cardboard The Suntory Group is gradually adopting paper packaging materials that have acquired the FSC certification*1 that ensures proper management of international forests for products made in Japan. Suntory Beverage & Food Ltd. introduced FSCcertified cardboard packaging to (Mineral Water) Suntory Tennensui for products manufacture from August 2017. Since the end of February 2018, we have achieved 100% use of FSC-certified cardboard used for packaging all our Suntory Tennensui brand products. We are promoting the use of FSC-certified paper packaging materials throughout the Group with the sequential adoption of these materials for Suntory Beverage & Food Ltd., Suntory Beer Ltd., Suntory Spirits Ltd. and Suntory Wine International Ltd. products and as packaging for six packs. *1 F  orest Stewardship Council (FSC) is an international organization that certifies timber produced from forests globally as well as the distribution and manufacturing processes of the cut timber. This certification considers the environmental conservation of these forests and recognizes timber produced in an economical and sustainable manner which generates revenue for the local community. This certification considers the environmental conservation of these forests and recognizes timber produced in an economical and sustainable manner which generates revenue for the local community. Collaboration for Container Recycling Suntory Group uses vast amount of container's in its business. We are committed to recycling containers to reduce environmental impact in collaboration with industry organizations and local governments, as well as with our consumers. For example, we agree with the theme of 9 Tokenshi Containers and Packaging Diet Statement* promoted by 9 Tokenshi Waste Issue Exploratory Committee and participate in its activities. 9 Tokenshi Containers and Packaging Diet Statement Mark In addition, Suntory Group comply with Containers and Packaging Recycling Law and bear the cost for commissioning remerchandising as a responsibility of business operator and participate in each recycling industry organizations to build efficient recycling system and promoting recycling. *A  cooperative initiative of nine prefectures and cities (Saitama, Chiba, Tokyo, and Kanagawa prefectures and cities of Yokohama, Kawasaki, Chiba, Saitama and Sagamihara) and companies that are making initiatives to reduce weight of containers and packaging 148 ■Container recycle rate (based on data from industry groups) Promoting Litter Control for Empty Containers We are carrying out litter control activities for empty containers in order to beautify the environment and promote effective use of resources. We place one empty container collection box at every vending machine. We are also making efforts to raise awareness about recycling by affixing a Beautification Mark on vending machines as a way to prevent littering. Issue of oceanic pollution from plastic bottles The issue of oceanic pollution due to plastic bottles and other plastic containers, which is being debated as an environmental issue around the world, is one of the most important environmental challenges we as a society are facing. The Suntory Group strives to resolve this issue by actively cooperating with countries, regions, and industries in various initiatives as a beverage company who handles many of these containers. We have always been promoting 2R+B while expanding activities to raise consumer awareness about recycling. In the future, we aim to improve the recycling rate even further in each country and region around the world and will encourage activities to promote improvements together with our various stakeholders. In addition, as a part of the employee volunteer activities, each member of the company sees this issue as something that needs to be handled at the individual level and takes action through efforts including participating in the Beach Cleanup Activity sponsored by a non-profit organization in Japan, and participating in cleanup activities in the Chicago River basin overseas (Beam Suntory employees). We are conducting enlightenment activities to encourage employees to volunteer in similar cleanup efforts. The Suntory Group formulated the Plastic Policy in June 2019 and aims for 100% sustainability by using only recycled or plant-derived materials for all PET bottles used globally by 2030 and achieving zero use of virgin petroleum-based materials. Beach Cleanup Activity Friends the Chicago River 149 To Create Harmony To Create Harmony To Create Harmony Corporate with Customers To Create Harmony and Partners with Nature with Society with Employee Governance Effective Use of Resources Flow of Collection Through Recycling of Containers Collection of Bottles Spent plastic bottles had been conventionally ■Collection/recycling of bottles recycled and reused after collection for goods such as textiles and food containers, but these materials can now be recycled and reused as new plastic bottles. Collection of Glass Bottles A collection and recycling route has also been ■Returnable bottles established for glass bottles, which have a long history of use as beverage containers. Returnable bottles are collected and cleaned for reuse as beverage containers while one-way bottles are collected af ter use and fabricated into cullet ■One-way bottle (finely broken glass bottles) to mainly use as a raw material in manufacturing glass bottles. Moreover, this cullet is use for applications besides bottles such as insulation, tiles and road surfaces. Collection of Cans Spent cans (aluminum/steel) can be traded as a ■Collection of Cans valuable resource, and these materials are reused for cans, motor vehicles, construction materials and more through a wide range of routes. 150 To Create Harmony To Create Harmony To Create Harmony Corporate with Customers To Create Harmony and Partners with Nature with Society with Employee Governance Effective Use of Resources Promoting the Reduction and Recycling of Waste As part of our efforts toward establishing a recycling-oriented society, Suntory works to reduce byproducts and waste generation, and attain a 100% resource recycling rate. Byproducts and Waste Generation Performance 2019 Area Emissions（thousand tons） Japan 251 Americas 193 Europe 96 Asia 32 Oceania 6 Africa 0 Total 578★ * Data covers 26 production plants in Japan and 61 production plants overseas * Therein, the byproducts and waste generated by Suntory Beverage & Food Group companies in Japan and overseas amount to 151 thousand tons ★ * The numbers marked with ★ are certified by a third party on the Suntory Sustainability website. Maintaining a 100% Resource Recycling Rate We are committed to reducing the by-products and waste generated in the manufacturing processes at Suntory Group plants in Japan, and to recycling 100% of resources. In 2019, our plants in Japan (including Group companies) generated 251,454 tons of byproducts and waste. This means total waste generated is the same and by-products and waste amount per unit of production decreased by 2.5% compared to 2018. The resource recycling rate has been maintained at 100%. By-products and waste generation * Data covers 26 production plants in Japan 151 Flow for reuse of by-products and waste generated in each production process By-products and Waste generation, recycling rate and the purpose of use for recycled products 2014 2015 2016 2017 2018 2019 Type of Main Purpose waste of Use Generation Recycling Generation Recycling Generation Recycling Generation Recycling Generation Recycling Generation Recycling (t) Rate(%) (t) Rate(%) (t) Rate(%) (t) Rate(%) (t) Rate(%) (t) Rate(%) Vegetable (glycation, A nimal feed tea, coffee Fertilizer 187,439 100 186,184 100 185,227 100 195,334 100 187,818 100 181,524 100 dregs, etc.) Sludge (excess Fertilizer 29,522 100 27,194 100 27,574 100 30,351 100 30,472 100 31,245 100 sludge, etc.) Wood A nimal feed waste (cask, Fertilizer 2,693 100 1,610 100 2,123 100 1,314 100 4,435 100 2,458 100 palette) -G  lass Glass and materials ceramic B ase course 3,928 100 4,136 100 3,772 100 3,508 100 3,216 100 2,825 100 scrap material Paper scraps -R  ecycled (cardboards, paper paper labels, -C  ardboard 6,192 100 6,175 100 5,184 100 6,349 100 6,228 100 6,429 100 etc.) materials Palette Solid fuel Plastic -S upplementary 4,287 100 4,938 100 4,956 100 5,918 100 6,138 100 6,338 100 fuel Metal scraps Aluminum (aluminum, -S  teel 3,016 100 3,277 100 3,039 100 2,958 100 3,240 100 3,270 100 steel) ingredients Other 2,725 100 3,182 100 12,729 100 12,632 100 16,405 100 17,365 100 Total 239,801 100 236,697 100 244,604 100 258,365 100 257,951 100 251,454 100 * Data covers 26 production plants in Japan 152 ■Development of Applications for Resource Recycling by Type We are furthering resource recycling for the by-products and waste produced by the Suntory Group in various applications. Barrel cabinet Suntory Barrel Story by Karimoku Drink sampling tray made Blend Series Dining Set from barrel Product line-up of the Suntory Whiskey Barrel Furniture created from whiskey cask materials that have fulfilled their distillery role. Building a Recycling Circulation Cycle for Food Waste -Izutsu Maisen Co., Ltd. Izutsu Maisen Co., Ltd. is actively striving to reuse food loss to not waste the invaluable blessings of nature. One predominate initiative is the setup of a recycling circulation cycle for the crusts of bread. Izutsu Maisen cuts off the crusts of the bread when they make their popular fried pork cutlet sandwiches. These bread crusts are generally given to business operators who are able to recycle them as feed, but Izutsu Maisen launched their Original Amai-Yuwaku original Amai-Yuwaku pork brand that raises pigs on this feed in 2012 because pork brand the crusts are perfect as feed. This is an initiative that uses the bread crusts once again in a cycle as a raw material such as in the pork cutlets once. 153 To Create Harmony To Create Harmony To Create Harmony Corporate with Customers To Create Harmony and Partners with Nature with Society with Employee Governance Reducing Environmental Impact Preventing Pollution and Management of Chemical Substances We are implementing necessary measures to address environmental risks recognizing that even though we mostly use ingredients of natural origin, they still might produce negative impacts on the environment. Environmental Risk Management Strategies The products provided by the Suntory Group mainly use agricultural products and water, so the environmental risk from raw materials is lower than in other industries. Nevertheless, chemicals are used in the manufacturing process to clean and sterilize equipment and can contaminate the surrounding environment. Therefore, we consider all possible abnormalities and emergencies, evaluate risks, and implement countermeasures. Preventing Air Pollution The Suntory Group strives to reduce SOx and NOx emissions by switching to gas fuel that does not contain sulfur and adopting low NOx burners. We have set voluntary standards that are stricter than legal limits and control air pollutants in exhaust gas from boilers. ■SOx emissions 2017 2018 2019 Emissions（t） 14.4 16.4 16.8 Per Unit（g/k） 3.0 3.4 3.5 * 26 production plants in Japan ■NOx emissions 2017 2018 2019 Emissions（t） 134.6 147.0 152.0 Per Unit（g/k） 28.5 30.1 31.6 * 26 production plants in Japan Preventing water pollution Wastewater management is conducted at each factory by setting voluntary standards that are stricter than legal limits. 154 Preventing Soil Pollution Suntory Group plants use chemical substances to clean equipment. These are strictly controlled, and efforts are made to prevent them from leaking. However, even if a cleaning agent or chemical leaks out, liquid control dam surrounding chemical tanks will prevent to pollute soil. We carry out periodical inspections to prevent pollution. Measures for Alcohol Evaporation Some amount of alcohol vaporizes from the cask during the storage of whisky. We place collection equipment to prevent any evaporated alcohol from escaping the plant. In addition, regular monitoring (concentration measurement, etc.) is done to confirm if alcohol evaporation is being reduced. Chemical Substance Management Suntory group manages chemical substances by following laws, Pollutant Release and Transfer Register (PRTR) Law, Poisonous and Deleterious Substances Control Act, Fire Service Act and other related laws. Furthermore, we make a guideline on chemical substance management based on PRTR Law (established 2003). Management of Waste We promote to introduce an electronic manifest system for compliance with waste law and enhance information control of waste. We also hold lectures of waste related law, visiting waste treatment facilities and role-playing training for audit them to members of production, sales, cultural sites, headquarters and group companies. We call such a lecture as Waste management seminar and Surveillance seminar at waste treatment facility to skill them up the knowledge and the audit ability on waste management. We continue initiatives for compliance with waste law. Management of PCB Disposal We store PCB wastes appropriately and report their storage status to the local government based on Law Concerning Special Measures Against PCB Waste . We have registered to Japan Environmental Storage & Safety Corporation (JESCO) as a subcontractor for the disposal of PCB and began disposal of equipment that includes PCB from 2007. Status of the use and storage of equipment that includes PCB is as follows. ■Quantity of equipment that uses PCB (as of January 2020) Stored Used Total owned Capacitor 3 0 3 Transformer 8 2 10 Stabilizer for lighting device 20 0 20 Claims, Accidents and Lawsuits There were no claims, accidents or lawsuits related to environment in 2019. 155 To Create Harmony To Create Harmony To Create Harmony Corporate with Customers To Create Harmony and Partners with Nature with Society with Employee Governance To Create Harmony with Nature: Environment Environmental Communication Suntory Group values communication with the stakeholders and communicates information related to Suntory's spirit of Coexisting with Nature to the society. Appropriate and Timely Disclosure of Information and Communication Feedback and requests from stakeholders regarding environmental activities gathered through dialogue and customer center are utilized to improve target and activities. In addition to responding to feedback, we also communicate environmental information through issuing sustainability report, website and environmental events. ■Website Communicating Detailed Information The Environmental Activities website introduces detailed information regarding environmental activities. It regularly adds and updates information in effort to offer the latest information. Environmental Activity website ■Environmental Communication at Plants Suntory Group welcomes approximately 700,000 visitors to tour its beer, whisky, mineral water and other plants. These tours include a section on the environment to introduce related activities. We also hold special events where parents and children can enjoy and learn about the environment and its importance. Event for parents and children Environment section in the plant 156 ■Corporate Ad to Share the Tagline Follow Your Nature with the Society Under the corporate mission To Create Harmony with People and Nature , Suntory Group is engaging in environmental activities to pass down sustainable global environment to the next generation; and various cultural and social contribution activities such as community contribution through social welfare, education, and support for disaster relief; promotion of arts, academia and local culture; supporti for sports, and development of next generation. To communicate our wish to be a company that enriches society like water through these activities and products, we established Mizu To Ikiru , literally living with water , as our promise to society. In 2013, we placed environmental ads in newspapers and on television with the theme of water resource cultivation activities in Natural Water Sanctuaries. The Television commercial Suntory Natural Water Sanctuary (Soil Cultivation) received the Grand Prize in the Environmental TV Commercial category at the 17th Environmental Communication Awards hosted by the Ministry of the Environment and Global Environmental Forum. Newspaper ad Television commercial Suntory Natural Water Sanctuary Suntory Natural Water Sanctuary (Soil Cultivation) To reach more customers and communicate Suntory's environmental activities, we placed newspaper ads and television commercials Researching Suntory by Alien Jones from 2014 to 2016 (television commercial ended on March 2016). First television commercial Second television commercial Joining the Company Natural Water Sanctuary: Lecture (from July 2014) (from October 2014) From 2018, we have been placing new ads in newspapers with the message of To Create Harmony with People and Nature , the promise which Suntory group make with our customers, community and natural environment, to broadly communicate the importance of water to society. Newspaper ad To Create Harmony with People and Nature 157 To Create Harmony To Create Harmony To Create Harmony To Create Harmony Corporate with Customers with Nature with Society with Employee Governance and Partners Sustainability Initiatives To Create Harmony with Society Cultural and Social Contribution The origin of cultural and social contribution activities of the Suntory Group goes back to the spirit of Giving back to Society of Suntory founder Shinjiro Torii. Our approach is to continue pursuing the ideal cultural and social contribution that will be passed from generation to generation, and we work across a wide range of cultural and social contribution activities, including the development of next generations, support for disaster affected areas, contribution to local communities, supporting challenged sports, and promoting employee volunteer through arts and culture, sports, and social welfare. We value communication with local communities through engagement efforts in each region as part of all of our social contribution activities. Arts, Culture and Basic Policy on Social Activities Sports Activities Academic Activities The Suntory Group has worked in various We work on the promotion of We are supporting the development of community contribution activities since its humanities, social sciences, and a healthy body and mind through the founding to support the realization of a society bio-organic research in addition to promotion of sports such as rugby and where people are able to enjoy rich lifestyles. artistic and cultural development that volleyball in order to expand activities We formulated the Suntory Group Basic Policy contributes to the growth of rich culture rooted in communities. on Social Activities to fulfill our global social and lifestyles. responsibility together with our Group companies. Developing the Next Disaster Recovery Social Welfare Generation Support We work in charitable and social We believe it is our mission as a We provide donations and beverages welfare activities that give back the company to nurture people who will when large-scale disasters strike in profit from our businesses to society play a role in the next generation. We Japan or overseas, and give ongoing based on the Giving back to society are expanding various activities to support acting as a Group. spirit alive in Suntory since our support the development of children. founding. 158 Contributions to Local Supporting Challenged Supporting Employee Communities Sports Volunteer Activities We implement social contribution We conduct activities to cheer on We actively support volunteer activities activities focusing on the local challenged athletes (sports for the and other events for employees to communities, by greening the plants disabled) under our PASSION FOR participate in society to continually and organizing plant tours and CHALLENGE grounded in our“Yatte cultivate sincere human trust toward beautification activities implemented Minahare”spirit that we have had Growing for Good. by the employees. since our founding. 159 Sustainability Action Plan Target achieved: ●●● Achieved 70% or more: ●● Achieved less than 70%: ● Prioritized Mid-Term Targets Results in FY2019 FY2020 Action Plan Evaluation items ・Promoted culture, arts and ・Promote culture, arts Broad Contribution society contributions though and society contributions Cultural, Arts Activities Through support for activities conducted though support for activities ●●● and Society Support of by the Suntory Foundation conducted by the Suntory Contributions Foundation Activities for the Arts and the Suntory Foundation for the Arts and Foundation. the Suntory Foundation. ・Promote support activities for culture, arts and sports activities though the Tohoku Sun-Sun Project and the Land Enhance activities ・Promote support activities of Water Kumamoto Support to support recovery Project for culture, arts and sports Contributions of Tohoku and activities though the Tohoku to Local Kumamoto ・Expand water resource ●●● Communities coordinated with Sun-Sun Project and the Land cultivation measure through local governments, of Water Kumamoto Support the Suntory Kumamoto NPOs, etc. Project Groundwater Mirai Project ・Contribution of donations to areas affected by Typhoon No.15 and No.19 ・Supported local cultural activities by celebrating local ・Support local cultural activities culture through the Suntory by celebrating local culture Prize for Community Cultural through the Suntory Prize for Activities Community Cultural Activities ・Expansion of the number of Global ・Expansion of the number of Promote social areas in the world where the development areas in the world where the contribution Suntory Mizuiku Education of social Suntory Mizuiku Education ●●● activities in areas of Program for Nature and Water contribution Program for Nature and Water activities business operations is implemented with a focus is implemented with a focus on on the Asia region including the Asia region Vietnam, Indonesia and Thailand. ・Begin implementation of social contribution activities in other ・Began implementation of social areas contribution activities in other areas ・Expanded participants in next ・Expand and maintain Strengthen next generation support programs participants in next generation Next through cultural, sports, and support programs through generation support generation community contribution cultural and sports activities programs through ●●● development cultural and sports activities (70,000 participants) (target of 96,000 participants) support activities ・Implementing a scholarship ・Implementing a scholarship system for challenged athletes system for challenged athletes ・Report activities to promote ・Report activities to promote the use of the online website the use of the online website (Volunteer Web) Promote the (Volunteer Web) Support development ・Held a volunteer month (twice ・Held a volunteer month employee a year) of platforms for participation ・Expand original volunteer active employee ・Expand original volunteer ●●● in social programs for employees contribution participation in programs for employees social contribution ・Annual participant target activities ・Annual participant 1,300 activities 2,000 employees in Japan employees in Japan ・Annual participant target ・Annual participant 5,700 5,700 employees in global employees in global 160 To Create Harmony To Create Harmony To Create Harmony To Create Harmony Corporate with Customers with Nature with Society with Employee Governance and Partners To Create Harmony with Society: Cultural and Social Contribution Basic Policy on Social Activities Since first opening its doors, Suntory Group has been involved in community contribution, arts, culture, sports and environmental activities based on the spirit of giving back to society. The social activities of the Suntory Group contribute to sustainable growth of its businesses while solving issues in local communities. We have established Suntory Group's Basic Policy on Social Activities and aim to improve the value of our corporate brand across the globe through promoting activities unique to Suntory with the Group companies. Suntory Group Basic Policy on Social Activities The Suntory Group strives to actively contribute to communities in order to help realize the society where people can full-heartedly enjoy life. Social contribution is the corporate motto inherited by our founder's spirit Giving back to Society . We are aiming to realize the rich growth of lifestyle culture as well as a sustainable global society to fulfill our social responsibility worldwide while delivering the highest-quality products and services to consumers based on our corporate philosophy To Create Harmony with People and Nature . 1.Promote activities based on the standpoint of the next generation and actual situation worldwide together with our employees around the fields of arts and culture, sports, social welfare, and the natural environment. 2.Focus on a dialog with stakeholders and work to generate links and cooperation. 3.Support the wide-range of volunteer activities of employees. 161 To Create Harmony To Create Harmony To Create Harmony To Create Harmony Corporate with Customers with Nature with Society with Employee Governance and Partners To Create Harmony with Society: Cultural and Social Contribution Arts, Culture and Academic Activities Suntory Group is involved in a variety of cultural contribution activities such as operating the Suntory Museum of Art, Suntory Hall and other activities that contribute to the development of a rich culture and lifestyle. In addition, we also support social science and humanities academic research and the research activities of the Suntory Foundation for Life Sciences. Through these activities we aim to foster international human resources capable of leading the next generation. Promoting Arts, Culture and Academics ■Suntory Foundation for the Arts Suntor y Museum of Ar t opened in 1961 and Torii Music Foundation established in 1969 as a 70th anniversar y commemoration of the founding of Suntory (name changed to Suntory Music Foundation in 1978). Two activities that have been carried out in the field of arts for about half a century was merged as a 110th anniversary commemoration activity and renew them to suit the 21st century in 2009 as Suntory Foundation for the Arts. Since April 2012, operation of Suntory Hall was added to expand its field and aims to contribute to further disseminate and develop music and arts in Japan through various unique activities. ■Suntory Museum of Art -Art revised, beauty revealed Guided by the theme“Art in Life”since its founding in 1961, the museum's current collection encompasses over 3,000 works of painting, lacquer ware, pottery, glass, and textile, including one national treasure and 15 important cultural properties. With no permanent exhibition, the museum is centered on its special exhibitions. The museum moved to Tokyo Midtown in Roppongi in March 2007. Based on the museum message of Art revised, beauty revealed , we are also involved in passing down a sense of art of the Japanese people to future generations through larger and Suntory Museum of Art more diverse exhibitions. The museum, which was designed by architect Kengo Kuma with the theme of an urban living room in the middle of the city, provides facilities such as a shop, a cafe, a hall that hold a wide range of programs, and a tea room. 162 Special Exhibitions Unique to Suntory Museum of Art In 2019, we held four exhibitions that are distinct to the Suntory Museum of Art; Kawanabe Kyosai: Nothing Escaped His Brush, focusing on Kawanabe Kyosai; information or inspiration? Japanese aesthetics to enjoy with left side and right side of the brain, collaborating with design office nendo lead by Oki Sato; Styles of Play: The History of Merrymaking in Art, focusing on the theme of play in art; and Mino Tea Wares: Kiseto, Setoguro, Shino, and Oribe, which introduce the appeal of unique and vivid design of pottery in the Mino area. Merrymaking at a Mansion Six-panel folding screen, Edo period, 17th century, Suntory Museum of Art Mino Tea Wares: Kiseto, Setoguro, Shino, and Oribe Exhibit poster We will continue with efforts to make Japanese as well as foreign museum visitors familiar with Japanese culture, such as making audio guides in Japanese and English available for all exhibitions and performing tea ceremonies on designated days in the museum tea ceremony room Genchōan. Genchōan Tea Ceremony Room (6th floor) Tencha (tea ceremony) (open only on designated days during exhibitions) Suntory Hall — In pursuit of the world's most beautiful sound Opened in 1986 as Tokyo's first dedicated concert hall. Performances by leading musicians from Japan and overseas are performed in two halls, Main Hall with a vineyard style, praised as a jewel box of sound by world-renowned conductor Herbert von Karajan, and Blue Rose (Small Hall) which gives the space a warm sound and atmosphere and the audience can feel close to the performers. Every year, Suntory Hall holds more than 550 events and welcomes approximately 600,000 visitors. Suntory Hall 163 Enhancing Accessibility through Seven-month Renovation aiming for the World's Top Quality of Safety and Comfort. Suntory hall celebrated its 30th anniversary on October 12, 2016 before closing between February and August 2017 for a seven-month renovation. While valuing the mission to In pursuit of the world's most beautiful sound , we welcome everyone and want ourselves to be available to all. We are working hard to remove barriers so that our facilities and events can be accessible to as many people as possible. Suntory Hall held a concert and an emergency drill with the Suntory Group employees participated before the reopen after the renovation. We aim to ensure Suntory Hall has the highest standard of the crisis management. Concert and Emergency Drill Crime Prevention Drill Presenting Unique Programs Suntory Hall has presented unique programs since its opening as an influential venue in the music industry. Particularly, the Summer Festival of contemporary music launched in 1987 and the annual Chamber Music Garden specialized in chamber music launched in 2011 gather international attention. Suntory Hall Suntory Hall Wiener Philharmoniker Week in Japan 2019 Chamber Music Garden 2019 Summer Festival 2019 Vienna Philharmonic Orchestra conducted by Christian Thielemann 164 Music Division — Innovative Activities to Promote Music We are involved in a variety of projects designed to promote Western music in Japan, including awarding the Suntory Music Award to individuals and organizations that have made outstanding achievements in the field of music as well as the Keizo Saji Prize awarded for outstanding challenging performances and the Yasushi Akutagawa Suntory Award for Music Composition given to up-and-coming Japanese composers with superior works. We also introduce Works of Japanese Composers and provide grants for concerts. Since 2014, Suntory has also been aiming to conserve excellent Suntory Music Award and Keizo Saji stringed instrument artifacts which are cultural heritage assets as well as cultivate Prize ceremony new musicians through lending activities. The Suntory Foundation for the Arts lends its instruments to junior high and senior high school students and has begun a new program to lend instruments to up-and-coming musicians. Vienna Philharmonic & Suntory Music Aid Fund The Suntory Foundation for the Arts engages in activities with Suntory Holdings Ltd. for the Vienna Philharmonic & Suntory Music Aid Fund for the purpose of invigorating disaster afflicted areas as well as the rest of Japan. We are expanding many of these activities from the Music Aid Award that issues grants to music activities provided together with the Vienna Philharmonic Orchestra to Concerts for Children in disaster-affected areas and mentoring of junior orchestras and musical remembrances. Vienna Philharmonic & Suntory Music Aid Fund: Musical Exchange with the Sendai Junior Orchestra 165 ■Suntory Foundation Suntory Foundation was established in 1979 in celebration of Suntory's 80th anniversary. Aiming to deepen international and interdisciplinary exploration of society and culture, we will support and discover of talented human resources across a wide range of fields, and support original and adventurous research, and, contribute to the dramatic development of cultural exchange between the world and Japan. Our initiatives as a Humanities and Social Sciences Promotion Project effort, include research assistance and investigative research in the fields of the humanities and social science, awarding of the Suntory Prize for Social Sciences and Humanities, and overseas publishing support. And as a Community Culture Promotion Project efforts awarding the Suntory Prize for Community Cultural Activities and support for regional cultural activities. In recent years, the Foundation has been actively working to provide support to young researches, and carries out initiatives including providing support for human resources who will play a role in the future, providing opportunities for exchange between the worlds of academism and journalism as a bridge between researchers and society. The Foundation celebrated its 40th anniversary in 2019. Since the 40th anniversary, new initiatives such as talk live, an international symposium, and regional culture forum were also carried out with the new concept of Connecting Knowledge, Spreading Knowledge, and Enjoying Knowledge. Suntory Prize for Social Sciences Suntory Prize for Community Cultural Challenge Research Aid and Humanities award ceremony Activities award ceremony for Young Researchers report briefing 40th Anniversary Initiatives of the Suntory Foundation ■Talk Live ( Gakugei Live ) This initiative shares the fascination of <knowledge> with media affiliates by inviting researchers who are experts in a variety of fields as guests to hold talks that go beyond their specialized fields. The Way to Live Life in the Coming Generation-Religion, Work, and Lifestyle Keishin Inaba x Sayaka Ogawa x Fumio Ohtake x Shinya Ouchi ■Talk Live ( Premium Mini Talks ) This initiative offered a venue at bookstores where readers could interact with Suntory Prize Winners for Social Sciences and Humanities. Atsushi Miura x Shinichi Fukuoka Motoyuki Shibata x Morio Tagai 166 40th Anniversary Initiatives of the Suntory Foundation ■International Symposium This symposium invited internationally-renowned opinion leaders to examine the challenges in Japan of an emerging super-aged society before it hits the world. Aging Society as an Opportunity ■Regional Culture Forum These cultural forms have been held in five cities in Japan — Tokyo, Fukushima, Toyama, Hiroshima and Osaka (*no longer for release) to advocate proposals ( Preservation Hints ) for the preservation and expansion of local culture and share expertise with practitioners and supporters of regional culture. Discussion on the theme of Performance of thinking about local culture Innoshima Murakami Suigun Taiko Preservation Society Preservation Hints 167 ■SUNTORY FOUNDATION FOR LIFE SCIENCES Preceded by the Institute of Food Chemistry which was established in 1946 to improve the health and nutrition of the Japanese people, the name was changed to Suntory Institute for Bioorganic Research (SUNBOR) in 1979 and Suntory Foundation for Life Sciences in 2011. The Foundation promotes research and disseminating academics of life science and its fusional area of bioorganic science. It has produced many university professors and other researchers that play active roles on the frontline. We engage in research activities for unveiling the mechanisms of life emphasizing molecules using the keywords metabolism , biomembrane , and signalling by positioning our own research into structural biology, organic chemistry, and molecular biology as points of integration for dissimilar fields. Collabolative research with research institutions such as universities is also promoted. It also operates analysis center to aid research by universities. SUNBOR GRANT for young researchers, SUNBOR SCHOLARSHIP for graduate students, aiding academic meetings, system of postdoctoral fellow, educational support for universities, and other activities to train researchers are also operated. Exhibition displaying the history of the foundation 800 MHz superconducting nuclear magnetic resonance equipment The discovery of enzyme gene for biosynthesis of Sesamolin and Sesaminol from Sesamin, antioxidant components of sesame, has been published for the first time in the world. Also, the gene controlling the contour shape of leaves and the blue formation mechanism created through interaction between flower pigment and flavonoid glycoside are also now known. These and many other research results are published in prominent academic papers. In addition, joint researchers and front-line researchers are invited to hold debriefing sessions annually. 2017 Research Institute Meeting (Saji Keizo Memorial Hall, Osaka University Nakanoshima Center) Suntory Rising Stars Encouragement Program in Life Sciences (SunRiSE) was started in January 31, 2020. It provides flexible and effective support that eliminates limitations on usage purposes and duration of the support to enable young researchers in the basic science research to realize their aspirations to understand and pursue knowledge. We hope to build a network of knowledge that not only utilizes the exchange between researchers as well as connections the Foundation and Suntory have and release them to the society. Suntory SunRiSE Life Science Researcher Support Program press conference 168 ■Suntory Presents Beethoven's 9th with a Cast of 10,000–Spreading the Joy of Singing Together Suntory Presents Beethoven's 9th with a Cast of 10,000 started as a commemorative event of the opening of the Osaka-jyo Hall in 1983 which was held for the 37th time in 2019. Suntory Group has been a co-sponsor from the first concert, which has become a seasonal event in December. The wide ranging event went beyond the borders of the region and surpassed generations with the participation of 10,000 people of all ages and nationalities with Suntory Presents Beethoven's 9th with a the expansion of the lesson venue as an opportunity to experience the joy of singing Cast of 10,000 and the excellence of classical music. In 2011 to 2013, Tohoku venue, which was linked live with the Osaka-jyo Hall, was also set as a part of an activity to support the recovery from the Great East Japan Earthquake. In 2014, 150 people from Iwate, Miyagi and Fukushima prefectures were invited to the Osaka-jyo Hall. From 2017, in addition to television broadcasts, we have been providing LINE LIVE, a live broadcast for reaching more viewers. 169 To Create Harmony To Create Harmony To Create Harmony To Create Harmony Corporate with Customers with Nature with Society with Employee Governance and Partners To Create Harmony with Society: Cultural and Social Contribution Sports Activities The Suntory Group actively participates in corporate sporting events and supports sports promotion activities. We have our own rugby and volleyball sports teams that compete in league games. Both teams place special emphasis on promoting their sports, planning and carrying out community-based activities such as holding rugby and volleyball clinics mainly during the off-season. Activities to Promote Sports ■Suntory's Rugby Club Suntory SUNGOLIATH Company rugby club Suntory SUNGOLIATH was created in 1980 and participates in the Japan Rugby Top League, a national league for company rugby clubs. Suntory SUNGOLIATH is one of the leading teams in Japan, winning the Top League championship five times and All-Japan Rugby Football Championship eight times. We are actively engaged in promotion activities for rugby to support a healthy mind and growth of the body through sports. One of our activities is the special sponsorship of the Suntory Cup Japan Kid's Tag Rugby Championship held every year. More than 10,000 elementary school students from across Japan have participated in recent years and learned the meaning and fun of sports through tag rugby. We also actively participate in rugby clinics and other events taught firsthand by Suntory SUNGOLIATH team members. The Suntory SUNGOLIATH team also puts effort into social contribution activities and actively participates in events that include rugby clinics, local cleaning activities, and disaster recovery support activities. We actively strive in new efforts to let more people, including women and children, know about rugby, including an event held by Suntory to watch the 2019 World Cup in Japan together with people from disaster-affected areas. Suntory's Rugby Club Suntory SUNGOLIATH Participants of Rugby Clinic Suntory SUNGOLIATH has won the All-Japan Rugby Football Championship eight times 170 ■Suntory's Volleyball Club Suntory SUNBIRDS Company volleyball club Suntory SUNBIRDS, created in 1973, participates in the V. Premium League Division 1, the top company volleyball league in Japan. To promote sports, the club engages in activities such as coaching volleyball techniques and supporting the management of volleyball competitions (2019 was the 14th time for elementary schools, 41st time for junior high schools, and 23rd time for the mother's volleyball competition). In addition, SUNBIRDS athletes taught in the volleyball clinics to various age groups, with as focus on elementary and junior high school students, with the participation of about 5,800 participants in 2019. Furthermore, Suntory SUNBIRDS participates in social contribution activities. The athletes helped with a wide-range of activities such as leading exercises with a ball for the elderly as well as working with the police to prevent youth delinquency and crime. The SUNBIRDS also held volleyball clinics for elementary and junior high school students in Iwate, Miyagi and Kumamoto Prefectures as part of support activities to support the recovery from the Great East Japan Earthquake and Kumamoto earthquakes. Suntory's Volleyball Club Suntory SUNBIRDS Volleyball clinic for communities Activity for preventing youth delinquency and crime ■Ai Miyazato Suntory Ladies Open Golf Tournament Suntory Ladies Open Golf Tournament is an official ladies open golf tournament of the Ladies Professional Golfers' Association of Japan hosted by Suntory. The event was held at the Rokko Kokusai Golf Club in Kobe City from June 13, 2019. This tournament is seen as a competition to test the true skill of the golfers because it is held for four days while in Japan most golf tournaments usually last for three days. Ai Miyazato, a professional golfer affiliated with Suntory, acts as an advisor for the tournament and is involved with setting the course, PR for the tournament, and hospitality for visitors. As an international open tournament, it opens its doors and supports the growth of Japanese and international up-andcomers and amateur golfers who are expected to become leading players in the future, and actively engages in other charitable events. Ai Suzuki and Ai Miyazato, an advisor for the tournament (winning the 2019 tournament) 171 ■Suntory Dream Match Suntory has been hosting baseball games since 1995 by separating famous players who have retired from professional baseball into two teams to provide dreams and excitement. The dream baseball match has brought joy to a total of 1,090,000 baseball fans so far. The Premium Malt's, led by Manager Koji Yamamoto, and the Dream Heroes, led by Manager Yasushi Tao, played an exciting baseball game at the 24th match held in Tokyo Dome in July 2019. A portion of the proceeds from this event goes toward holding baseball clinics for the recovery of baseball. Day of the match (2019) ■Suntory Challenged Sports Project The Suntory Group started supporting challenged sports in 2014 as a part of our recovery support for disaster-stricken Tohoku region. In addition to the provision of grants and donation of sports equipment, we hold challenged sports experience classes, including wheelchair basketball sessions, for children in the Tohoku Region. Over 5,000 people have participated in the event so far. The Suntory Group has not only supported recovery efforts as an official partner of the Japanese Para-Sports Association and the Japan Wheelchair Basketball Federation since 2015 but also strives in efforts that include the support of athletic activities and competitions for athletes such as Suntory Employee Mami Tani, an active para-triathlete, in addition to employee volunteer activities. Moreover, we are working in promotional activities, such as video production of rules for wheelchair basketball, VR videos of wheelchair basketball, and online publishing projects to introduce the passion of the athletes. We will persevere with our athletes in the future under our PASSION FOR CHALLENGE grounded in our“Yatte Minahare”spirit that we have had since our founding. 172 To Create Harmony To Create Harmony To Create Harmony To Create Harmony Corporate with Customers with Nature with Society with Employee Governance and Partners To Create Harmony with Society: Cultural and Social Contribution Social Welfare In the spirit of our founder, Shinjiro Torii, who called for Giving back to society , we have maintained his principle by returning profits to society. We have been particularly active when it comes to charitable and social welfare activities directed toward people from less fortunate circumstances. Suntory Group has been ever mindful of changing social needs in the social contribution activities it has continued carrying out to this day. Support through the Social Welfare Organization ■Social Welfare Organization Hojukai Suntory founder Shinjiro Torii began the Hojukai in 1921 with the establishment of the Imamiya Dispensary free clinic in the Airin district of Osaka City to assist people living in financial hardship based on his strong belief in social contribution. The Hojukai was named by combining one Japanese kanji character of Shinjiro Torii's wife's name and one Japanese kanji character from our Kotobukiya company name from that time. During the turmoil after the Second World War, accommodation facility was provided for victims of war, people that returned from overseas and people that did not have a place to go, which are currently used as dorms for mother and child, special elderly nursing home and nursery schools. Hojukai continued activities as a social welfare organization and it operates Takadonoen (special care facility for seniors established in 1974), Domyoji Takadonoen (a general-purpose welfare facility established in 2008), the Tsubomi Nursery School (1975), and the West Asahi-ku Community General Support Center (commissioned by Osaka City in April 2011). To respond to the current needs, Suntory has been putting efforts in at-home nursing care services such as homevisit nursing care, outpatient nursing care, and in-home long-term nursing care services. In the spring of 2017, Tsubomi Nursery School moved to a new premise with the aim of an even more unique and comfortable facility as well as a nursery school that nurtures a wealth of sensibility. Hojukai , the first corporation to conduct social welfare activities in Osaka, celebrates its 100th anniversary in 2021. Takadonoen, special care facility for Domyoji-Takadonoen, a general-purpose Exchange between Takadonoen and seniors and Tsubomi Nursery School welfare facility Tsubomi Nursery School Donating Suntory Products to Children Homes with the Cooperation of Food Bank Activities The Suntory Group has donated approximately 83,000 cases of food and drinks to entities such as orphanages, welfare institutes, community centers, and disaster affected areas since 2010 through the Second Harvest non-profit organization that engages in Food Bank activities. The products that are donated are given under the condition that they have the same quality as the products sold commercially. We also conduct the same level or quality assurance, customer service, and all other operations for those products as the products sold commercially. This program started in Tokyo Metropolitan area in 2010 and was later expanded to include Okinawa in 2013. In the future, we will continue this food bank activity Endowments to inner-city to deliver the appropriate amount of food as necessary. children homes 173 Engaging in Charitable and Voluntary Activities ■Charitable activities Suntory Group will continue to conduct community contribution activities through charities. We will also actively participate in charitable activities such as summer and year-end charity campaigns at each business establishment throughout Japan. Supporting Community Building through Charity Suntory Ladies Open Golf Tournament Entry fees to the amateur-professional charity tournament, money from charity corner sales, etc. from the Suntory Ladies Open Golf Tournament, which was started in 1990, have been used to help earthquake disaster recovery efforts in Kobe City and help build safe and secure towns from 1995 when the Great Hanshin Earthquake Fire trucks donated to Natori City, occurred until 2010. Miyagi Prefecture Since 2011, we have donated fire-fighting vehicles and other equipment to Natori City and Sendai City in Miyagi Prefecture as support for disaster-affected areas that were severely damaged by the Great East Japan Earthquake. Since 2016, we have been providing recovery support to areas affected by the Kumamoto Earthquake and the Great East Japan Earthquake. Suntory Dream Match Suntory Dream Match is an event held from 1995 where proceeds from the sales of beer and other beverages, baseball goods, and charity seats, as well as part of the proceeds from the sales of baseball uniforms signed by participating athletes are used as donations to organize baseball and catch ball classes with the participation of active and retired professional baseball players in order to support the recovery of baseball in the Tohoku region. Moreover, we support reconstruction after the East Japan Earthquake, for example by inviting 100 Tohoku residents to attend sports events for free, as well was by selling charity seats“Tohoku Support Charity Seat”and using the sales proceeds to support Tohoku. Invited 100 persons from Catch ball class in disaster affected the Tohoku region areas using charity 174 To Create Harmony To Create Harmony To Create Harmony To Create Harmony Corporate with Customers with Nature with Society with Employee Governance and Partners To Create Harmony with Society: Cultural and Social Contribution Developing the Next Generation Suntory Group is engaged in a variety of activities related to music, art, sports and experiencing nature that are designed to support the healthy growth and development of the children who will be responsible for the future. Supporting the Development of the Next Generation through Various Activities Suntory Group provides children with opportunities to meet top athletes and come into contact with genuine works in fields such as sports, music, art, and the natural environment. As the importance of educating the youth is on the rise due to the decline in the children, we are strengthening the support to form the characters and individuality of children. Art Kids Club Iro-Iro Do-Re-Do-Re Suntory Hall and Suntory Museum of Art joint workshop ■Suntory Hall ― Nurturing Next-generation Performers and Audiences With Suntory Hall, we plan and offer various programs to develop the next generation, hoping children will experience a thrill listening to live music performed by leading musicians and taking classical music into their lives. We have been holding Concerts for Children which is Japan's first regular orchestra concerts for children and Minato-city & Suntory Hall Enjoy! Music Project for fourth grade elementary school students in Minato-city from 2014. We also host other programs such as Master Class by Principals of Vienna Philharmonic Orchestra , in which members of Vienna Philharmonic Orchestra teach young musicians directly. Minato-city & Suntory Hall Enjoy! Music Project Minato-city and Suntory Hall have continued the on-going hands-on arts program focused mainly on music since 2014 for local fourth grade elementary school students. Internationally recognized conductor Kazushi Ono was involved with the planning for the workshop and performance under the theme“Joy of Vibrant Voices”in 2018. In the two-hour workshop held at each elementary school, a soprano, alto, tenor and bass from the Suntory Hall Opera Academy performed. In the two-hour workshop held at each elementary school, a soprano, alto, tenor and bass from the Suntory Hall Opera Academy performed. The workshop demonstrated the difference in the range of these voices and the vocal resonance (B-flat), sung the Japanese song“Momiji,”and provided guidance to the source material key to Beethoven's 9th before the concert in January. On January 30, 2020, roughly 1,500 fourth grade students from elementary schools in Minato City gathered at Suntory hall to watch the Tokyo Philharmonic led by conductor Ryusuke Numajiri. Elementary School Workshop Minato City & Suntory Hall Enjoy! Music Project at Suntory Hall 175 Holding Concerts for Children We have been holding“Concerts for Children”since 2002 with the hope to establish a tradition of regular visits to concert halls in children and bring classical music into their lives. This is Japan's first regular orchestra concert for children. We collect and adopt illustrations for the flyers and the theme song for the season from the children in a format that allows children to not only listen but also participate. A program which children selected through audition can perform as a member of the orchestra, offering opportunities to play musical instruments under the guidance of the member of the orchestra, opportunity to be a child receptionist and other participatory events are being further being increased. Performance by children Hands on experience corner of musical instruments Suntory Hall Keizo Saji Junior Program Seat A program that continue the wish of Keizo Saji, the first President of Suntory Hall, to pass down classical music to the next generation. The program invites three pairs of both elementary and junior high school students to performances held on Saturday, Sunday and holidays at Main Hall. Keizo Saji Junior Program Seat ■Suntory Museum of Art — Art Appreciation Opportunities for Children Aiming to become a museum where children are always there, we provide various programs which children can easily enjoy art and nurture the mind to love art. Offering Education Programs The Suntory Museum of Art is actively working to proliferate education to the next generation according to the“Art Revised, Beauty Revealed”museum message. We offer free admission to children in junior high school and younger, and also distribute activity sheets. This tool not only guides users to notable areas of interest but also cultivates a spirit to enjoy free inspiration brought by appreciation. We hold education programs that started as a venue to link visitors with the art museum such as commorative and special lectures on exhibits. In 2019, we also conducted the“Open Doors to Art for the First Time”interactive mini lecture for people new to art appreciation and offered“Friendly Talks”designed to familiarize viewers with the arts using simple slides every Saturday. Moreover, as a“school program,”we invite children and students in elementary and junior high schools mainly from Minato-ku to visit as well as teach art at those schools. interactive mini lecture School Program for Each School 176 All Day Kids' Museum! All Day Kids' Museum! is a special event when the museum is open to elementary school and junior high school students as well as their guardians on a day that the museum is normally closed during which a variety of educational programs are held. This event has been held once a year since 2014. While viewing exhibitions as they enjoy things such as doing quizzes and drawing sketches using a worksheet, we provide a complete museum experience through specialized programs for children, including interactive art appreciation, workshops, and a museum tour. Workshop Interactive art appreciation with works placed in front of the group ■Supporting the Development of Children through Sports Suntory Group runs a variety of activities designed to support the healthy development of children's minds and bodies through sports. As part of the activity, Suntory's sports teams, rugby club Suntory SUNGOLIATH and volley ball team Suntory SUNBIRDS promotes their sports and holds clinics to directly teach children in a various places. In addition, the SUNGOLIATH are cooperating in opportunities for children to interact with rugby such as the operational support for the Suntory Cup Japan Kid's Tag Rugby Championship. The SUNBIRDS are also holding a Ball Play Seminar for Children to Experience the Joy of Exercise as an elementary school class and supporting the operations of the local volleyball competitions. In 2018, approximately 20,000 children participated in these programs. Rugby Clinic Volleyball Clinic ■Support through the Hibarigaoka Gakuen The Hibarigaoka Gakuen has been supporting continuity education from kindergarten to high school since Shinjiro Torii became the first chairperson of in 1950. Shinjiro Torii places importance on being devoted to one's parents and kept saying“a person who is devoted to his own parents can do anything well.”The founding spirit has been passed down today and the school engages in educating people based on the belief that“the basic natural thought of mankind of parents' whish the growth of their children and Planting trees at the children appreciates and respects their parents unites a family, which raises the thought of open air school contributing to the society.”From 2008, as educational supports of next generation, we have provided primary school and junior high school students environmental curriculum, for example, Hanaiku, Mizuiku, and activities outside the school, and supported school visions. 177 ■Nurturing Challenging Spirit through Experiencing Camping at an Uninhabited Island Since 2007, Suntory Group has been promoting Yoshima Project in cooperation with Kobe YMCA, a public interest incorporated foundation which operates a camping site in an uninhabited island in Shodo-gun, Kagawa Prefecture since 1950. The project is intended to nurture spirit of challenge and dreams of children experiencing rich natural environment unique to an uninhabited island and plans and holds Adventure Camp participated by Gota Miura and various programs around the year. In 2019, approximately 3,500 children participated in the program. Yoshima Summer Camp Yoshima ■Developing Work Value in Children Through Real Experience The Suntory Group has opened a Beverage Service Center pavilion for children to experience operations related to vending machines at KidZania in Tokyo and Koshien where kids learn about work and society through play. The Beverage Service Center can teach vending machines systems as well as the knowledge and innovations used to deliver products to customers while evoking passion in people to support beauty, safety and reliability. We hope to cultivate work value and bring new awareness to children everyday through hands-on experience where they can interact with actual vending machines often seen as no more than part of the cityscape. Learning the Inner workings of Delivering Products to Vending Machines Vending Machines 178 To Create Harmony To Create Harmony To Create Harmony To Create Harmony Corporate with Customers with Nature with Society with Employee Governance and Partners To Create Harmony with Society: Cultural and Social Contribution Disaster Recovery Support Support for Disaster Areas The Suntory Group provides help to the people and places afflicted by disasters by providing relief contributions and drinking water when large disasters strike Japan or other countries. ■Main Donations Year Incident Amount Donated Beneficiary News release 2010 Canterbury (Christchurch) 2010 Earthquake (New 3.25 million yen Cristchurch earthquake appeal fund Zealand's South Island) Miyazaki Prefecture, and the Foot-and-Mouth Suntory Relief Aid for FootMiyazaki Community Chest 2010 Disease Outbreak in 10 million yen and-Mount Disease in Miyazaki Association Social Welfare Miyazaki Prefecture Prefecture (in Japanese only) Organization Suntory Relief Aid for Earthquake 2010 Chile Earthquake 50 million yen Chile Embassy Recovery in Chile 2010 Haiti Earthquake 10 million yen The Japanese Red Cross Society Suntory Haiti Earthquake Aid Approx. 2.5 million The Government of the Kingdom Support for Recovery from Flood 2011 Thailand floods yen of Thailand Damage in Thailand 179 Year Incident Amount Donated Beneficiary News release 2011 Canterbury (Christchurch) Earthquake Relief Donation to 2011 Earthquake (New 6.2 million yen New Zealand Red Cross New Zealand Zealand's South Island) Floods in Queensland The Premier's Flood Relief Donation to 2011 Queensland, 8 million yen Disaster Relief Appeal Queensland Australia Australia 4.3 billion yen in 2011 2.0 billion yen in 2012 Iwate Prefecture, Miyagi Great East Japan 2.5 billion yen in Relief Donation for Earthquake in 2011Prefecture, Fukushima Prefecture, Earthquake 2013 the Tohoku Region of Japan Save The Children Japan, et al. 2.0 billion yen in 2014 (total: 10.8 billion yen) Landslide disasters in Chugoku Shimbun Social Welfare 2014 1 million yen Hiroshima Services Corporation 2015 Nepal Earthquake 3 million yen Nepal Earthquake 100 million yen in Kumamoto April 2016 Release of Contributions to 2016 Kumamoto Prefecture Earthquake 300 million yen in Kumamoto Prefecture October 2016 Fukuoka Prefecture Storm Disaster in (5 million yen) Fukuoka Prefecture/Oita Relief Donation for the Storm 2017 Northern Kyushu Oita Prefecture (5 Prefecture Disaster in Northern Kyushu million yen) Aid Following the Approx. 110 million About Aid Following the Massive Massive Hurricane 2017 yen (1 million American Red Cross Hurricane Disasters in the United Disaster in the dollars) States United States Aid Following Approx. 22 million About Aid Following the 2017 the Earthquake in yen Mexican Red Cross Earthquake in Mexico Mexico (200,000 dollars) Hurricane Maria Approx. 55 million 2017 Which Impacted yen Virgin Islands Aid Fund the Virgin Islands (500,000 dollars) 900 million yen Hiroshima Prefecture: Japanese (Hiroshima, Torrential Rains Red Cross Society Hiroshima Information About the Donations Okayama, and 2018 of July 2018 (in Okayama and Ehime Prefectures: for the Torrential Rains of July Ehime Prefectures Western Japan) Aid provided directly to each 2018 received 300 million prefectural government yen each) 2018 Hokkaido Information About Support 2018 Eastern Iburi 100 million yen Hokkaido Provided for the 2018 Hokkaido Earthquake Eastern Iburi Earthquake 180 Year Incident Amount Donated Beneficiary News release Support for Midousuji Ginkgo 2018 50 million yen Osaka City Namiki,damaged by Typhoon No.21 Suntory Pledges ￥50 million to 2019 Typhoon No.15 50 million yen Chiba Prefecture support Typhoon No. 15 Relief and Recovery Iwate Prefecture, Miyagi Prefecture, Fukushima Prefecture, Ibaraki Prefecture, Tochigi Suntory Pledges ￥550 million to Prefecture, Gunma Prefecture, 2019 Typhoon No.19 550 million yen support Typhoon No. 19 Relief Saitama Prefecture, Kanagawa and Recovery Prefecture, Niigata Prefecture, Nagano Prefecture and Shizuoka Prefecture Australian Red Cross, the New Support BUSHFIRE SUNTORY GROUP PLEDGES South Wales Rural Fire Service RELIEF and $500,000 TO SUPPORT 2020 $500,000 AUD and the New South Wales recovery in BUSHFIRE RELIEF AND Wildlife Information Rescue and Australia RECOVERY IN AUSTRALIA Education Service (WIRES) Support the Relief Suntory Pledges ￥50 million to and Recovery of support the Relief and Recovery 2020 the Kumamoto 50 million yen Kumamoto Prefegture of the Kumamoto area affected area affected by the by the heavy rain heavy rain Providing Free Beverages When Disasters Strike Suntory Foods Ltd. has developed and is furthering the installation of emergency beverage vending machines. This system normally sells beverages from vending machines in peace times but will provide them for free during emergencies such as when disasters strike. Beverages can be easily accessed even if the power goes out. Many people used this system after the Great East Japan Earthquake that struck in March of 2011. We are furthering the installation on premises with focus on public facilities and hospitals. We plan to keep actively installing these Emergency beverage vending machine types of vending machines in the future. 181 To Create Harmony To Create Harmony To Create Harmony To Create Harmony Corporate with Customers with Nature with Society with Employee Governance and Partners Disaster Recovery Support Suntory Land of Water Kumamoto Support Project Supporting Kumamoto Earthquake Recovery Efforts Suntory Holdings Ltd. started Group-wide recovery support activities as the Suntory Land of Water Kumamoto Support Project to support the revitalization of Kumamoto after the earthquake that struck in 2016. We have delivered approximately 210,000 bottles of Suntory Tennensui mineral water in April 2016 and contributed 100 million yen in relief aid to municipalities affected by the Kumamoto earthquake in May 2016. Thereafter, Suntory decided to provide additional support of ¥300 million in October 2016. We launched the Suntory Land of Water Kumamoto Support Project, and we will continue to focus on activities that ensure the sustainability of groundwater in the Kumamoto region as well as those that support the livelihoods of the community members in affected areas through culture, arts, and sports based on the desire to contribute to the recovery of the prefecture as a company with the Suntory Kyushu Kumamoto Plant located in Kumamoto. Activities to Contribute to Sustainably of Groundwater in the Kumamoto Area Suntory Kumamoto Groundwater Mirai Project Recovery of Winter Rice Fields Renovations Planting Event Long Awaited Harvest 182 Activities to Support the Mind and Body Through Culture, Arts and Sports Holding sports classes We hold volley ball and rugby classes by Suntory's sports teams and baseball classes in disaster affected areas. Number of participants Approx. 約 2,200 Suntory SUNGOLIATH Rugby Classes Watching tour of RUGBY WORLD CUP JAPAN 2019 with Suntory SUNGOLIATH Suntory SUNBIRDS Volleyball Classes Suntory Dream Match Live Vienna Philharmonic Recovery & Remembrance Concert In cooperation with the Vienna Philharmonic Orchestra, we established a fund, and, in addition to presenting performances by orchestra members, we provided grants and technical support to local organizations. Number of participants Approx. 約 1,300 183 Recovery & Remembrance Concert Led by Super Kids Orchestra Yutaka Sado Supporting recovery concert activities since 2015 by Super Kids Orchestra led by international conductor and Super Kids Orchestra Artistic Director Yutaka Sado. Number of participants Approx. 約 3,000 Minna no Machi concerts held through the cooperation of Kumamoto Prefectural Theater, the Kyushu Symphony Orchestra, and Suntory We have been holding concerts at elementary schools, public halls, and other locations around the Kyushu Kumamoto Plant in cooperation with Kumamoto Prefectural Theater and the Kyushu Symphony Orchestra since 2018. Number of participants Approx. 約 3,000 Community Support Support Activities Using Suntory Capital Expanded with Focus on Kashima, Mashiki and Mifune around the Kyushu Kumamoto Plant in Kyushu. In cooperation with Suntory Flowers, we deliver flower seeds to people living in temporary housing and hold workshops Everyone Afflicted by the Disaster from Kashima, Mashiki and Mifune Around the Kyushu Kumamoto Plant in Kyushu Invited to a Plant Tour Invited people living in temporary housing in Kashima, Mashiki and Mifune around the Kyushu Kumamoto Plant Number of participants Approx. 約 850 184 To Create Harmony To Create Harmony To Create Harmony To Create Harmony Corporate with Customers with Nature with Society with Employee Governance and Partners Disaster Recovery Support The Suntory Tohoku Sun-Sun Project Activities to Support the Recovery from the Great East Japan Earthquake The Suntory Group is expanding its support for recovery from the Great East Japan Earthquake. Immediately after the earthquake, the Suntory Group provided 1 million bottles of mineral water as emergency relief supplies and donated ¥300 million to the three affected prefectures. We also worked to provide support for the reconstruction with contributions equivalent to a total of 10.8 billion yen: 4 billion yen in 2011, 2 billion yen in 2012, 2.5 billion yen in 2013, and 2 billion yen in 2014. The Suntory Group launched the Suntory Tohoku Sun-Sun Project and actively continues its support activities with focus on Support Recovery of the Fishing Industry, Youth Support Initiatives, Challenged Sports, and Support through Culture, the Arts, and Sports with the hope to bring warm light like the sunshine, and smiles and joy to disaster affected areas. We support the purchase of fishing vessels, fishing equipment and fixed fishing nets to assist the early recovery of the fishing industry. We award grants to students at fisheries high schools, provide a safe and secure environment for children to learn and play scuh as child care facilities, and support NPOs that help children such as Save the Children Japan. We engage in other various cultural and sports activities to bring smiles and joy. Since 2014, we have been providing support for Challenged Sports in Iwate, Miyagi, and Fukushima prefectures, based on our desire to deliver hopes and dreams. We will donate the equivalent of 1 billion yen over the period of six years focusing on Challenged Athlete Subsidy aimed at supporting individual athletes and organizations, Challenged Sports Academy aimed at providing opportunities mainly for children to experience challenged sports and engage with athletes, and Challenged Sports Training Support aimed at popularizing, strengthening and supporting them. ■Result of Support Recovery Support for the Fishing Industry Donating to the reconstruction of the prefectures' fishing industries To support early reconstruction through the auspices of prefectural governments, Suntory donated ¥3.0 billion to Miyagi Prefecture and ¥2.5 billion to Iwate Prefecture 185 Support to cover costs of acquiring fishing vessels To ease the burden on fishermen, the Suntory Group is acting through the auspices of Miyagi Prefecture and Iwate Prefecture to shoulder a portion of the costs to acquire new fishing vessels. The Group is supporting the restoration of about 10,000 vessels of all sizes and types, from deep-sea tuna vessels to squid fishing vessels Amount of support to cover costs of acquiring fishing vessels Approx. 10,000 ships Support to restore fishing-related facilities Donations for the reconstruction of the fishing industry in Miyagi Prefecture and Iwate Prefecture are also used in the restoration of fixed fishing nets and aquaculture facilities Amount of support for fishing vessels Approx. 1,100 locations Amount of support for fixed shore nets Approx. 400 locations Youth Support Initiatives Scholarships for fisheries high schools For f ive year s beginning in 2012, the Suntor y Group is providing f ree scholarships to disaster affected students at seven fisheries high schools Number of scholarship recipients (total) Approx. 3,000 186 Support for building a place for children in Fukushima to learn and play We build child care facilities, hold workshops conducted by various Suntory Group companies, provide training for instructors, excursions, etc. so that children in Fukushima Prefecture can learn and play in safety Number of child care facilities built 5 facilities Number of outdoor activity participants such as summer camps Approx. 8,800 Providing Assistance to NPOs that Support the Children of Fukushima We provide three year aid for organizations that provide intensive support to children in Fukushima Prefecture who have been living in evacuation centers for long period of time Number of organizations that were awarded grants 57organizations Construction of Ishinomaki City Children's Center Raitsu and Yamada Fureai Center Hapine We provided aid for the total cost of construction for the Ishinomaki City Children's Center Raitsu (Miyagi Prefecture) and Yamada Fureai Center Hapine (Iwate Prefecture) facilities that were planned and designed by the children Number of Ishinomaki City Children's Center Raitsu users annually Approx. 30,000 Numb e r of Ya ma da Fur ea i Ce nte r Hapine users annually Approx. 60,000 187 Cooperative program through music with the TOMODACHI Initiative We are supporting students in disaster affected areas to attend music school in the United States with the cooperation of the TOMODACHI Initiative led by the US Embassy and U.S.-Japan Council. In the TOMODACHI Suntory Fukushima Mirai Music Program, we provide opportunities for the music club of Fukushima Futaba Mirai Gakuen High School to learn at workshops conducted by the New York Philharmonic orchestra in the United States Donation Approx. $ 1,000,000 Supporting Challenged Sports Challenged Sports Experience Classroom We have been holding cla sses where children from Iwate, Miya gi, and Fukushima prefectures can experience playing various Challenged Spor ts together with challenged athletes from the Tohoku region Number of participants Approx. 1,000 Visits by Athletes Athletes visit schools to provide children at elementary schools and junior high schools in areas affected by the disaster to allow them to experience wheelchair basketball and conduct boccia experience activities at special needs schools Number of participants Approx. 4,646 Challenged Athlete Subsidy We provide grants to individuals and organizations as a way to support the training of athletes on par with global standards and to develop and popularize challenged sports Individual Organization Total 294 people Total 129 teams (As of January 2020) 188 Challenged Sports Training Support We suppor t s treng thening the ba se and improving the environment of Challenged Sports through renovating public facilities and donating sports wheelchairs in order to develop and popularize them Hosting introductory workshops for wheelchair sports to cultivate challenged sports coaches in each prefecture Sports wheelchairs STT table-tennis tables 35 5 Facility renovations 3locations Introductory Workshop to Wheelchair Sports Held 13times Support through Culture, the Arts and Sports Vienna Philharmonic & Suntory Music Aid Fund Together with the Vienna Philharmonic Orchestra, Suntory is providing aid for music-related initiatives and is bringing concerts to the disaster affected areas The number of attendees at Concerts for Kids Approx. 14,000 Performance held by Vienna Philharmonic & Suntory Music Aid Award activities 128 organizations 189 Suntory and Japan Kogei Association Omoshiro Bijutsu Classroom in Tohoku The Suntory Group conducted visit to schools by designated Preservers of Impor tant Intangible Cultural Proper ties (also known as Living National Treasures) and other traditional handicraft artists Number of participants in the Omoshiro Bijutsu Classroom Approx. 1,200 Suntory Museum of Art Traveling Exhibition We hold exhibitions of Japanese art with items in the collection of Suntory Museum of Art in Sendai City and Koriyama City Number of visitors Approx. 14,000 Michinoku Wind Orchestra We operate a project which provides an opportunity for junior high and high school brass band members in disaster-affected areas to ultimately perform at Suntory Hall afterpractice. Number of participants Approx. 350 Music for Everyone Concert held by Suntory and the Sendai Philharmonic Orchestra Touring concerts were held for disaster affected area in Tohoku from 2016 through collaboration with the Sendai Philharmonic Orchestra centrally located in Sendai. Number of participants Approx. 3,500 190 Inviting the people from the disaster affected areas to cultural and sports events We invited the people from the disaster affected areas to cultural events, such as Suntory Presents Beethoven's 9th with a Cast of 10,000, and sports events, such as Suntory Dream Match and international rugby match Number of visitors to cultural events Approx. 9,400 Number of visitors to cultural events Approx. 21,500 Holding sports classes Each year we hold volleyball, rugby and baseball classes led by Suntory's sports teams in disaster affected areas Sports clinic participants and competition attendees Approx. 6,200 191 To Create Harmony To Create Harmony To Create Harmony To Create Harmony Corporate with Customers with Nature with Society with Employee Governance and Partners To Create Harmony with Society: Cultural and Social Contribution Contributions to Local Communities Coexisting with Communities around Our Plants The Suntory Group's main plants are making efforts to engage in dialogue with local residents. We also work to provide venues for interacting with the local community through measures such as opening parks and trails created at our plants. We have third parties conduct environmental impact assessments when we construct new plants and work to get the understanding of the people who neighbor the site. We also make efforts to harmonize the plants with nature by preserving the sites' biodiversity and pursuing greening initiatives on their grounds. ■Promoting Greening of Plants Suntory Group's plants consider biodiversity and promote greening that is in harmony with local environment, receiving awards in various locations as model green plants. Model greening plant commendation (hosted by Japan Greenery Research and Development Center) Year of commendation Plant of commendation Name of commendation 1987 Suntory Tonegawa Brewery Tokyo Commerce and Industry Bureau Director's Award 1989 Hakushu Distillery Prime Minister's Award 1993 Azusa-No-Mori Plant Minister's Commerce and Industry Prize 2002 Yamazaki Distillery Minister Prize of Economic, Trade and Industry 2006 Kyushu Kumamoto Plant Japan Greenery Research and Development Center Award 2008 Takasago Plant Japan Greenery Research and Development Center Award 2014 Suntory Tonegawa Brewery Minister Prize of Economic, Trade and Industry 2014 Kyushu Kumamoto Plant Minister Prize of Economic, Trade and Industry 2014 Haruna Plant Japan Greenery Research and Development Center Award 2019 Kyushu Kumamoto Plant Prime Minister's Award 192 Other greenification commendations Year of Plant of commendation Name of commendation Hosted by commendation Kyushu Bureau of Economy, Trade and Kyushu Bureau of Economy, 1986 Kyushu Kumamoto Plant Industry Greenery Award Trade and Industry National Arbor Day Awards 1997 Suntory Tonegawa Brewery Grand Prize in the Contest for Gunma Prefecture Environmental Greening Prize for Kumamoto Scenery/Prize for 2005 Kyushu Kumamoto Plant Kumamoto Prefecture Local Scenery Okudaisen Bunanomori Natural Award from The Japanese Society of Revegetation The Japanese Society of 2011 Mineral Water Plant Technology (Technology Award) Revegetation Technology ■Dialogue with Customers through Plant Tours We offer plant tours of our breweries, whisky distilleries, wineries, and natural mineral water plants so that more people can become familiar with our dedication to good taste and safety, our concern for the environment, and the approaches we take through our products. While viewing our production processes, visitors will be provided with easy to understand explanations about the detail that goes into our work and enjoy taste testing and other activities. In addition, special seminars to learn the commitment toward brewing beer and ways to enjoy whisky are held, attracting approximately 660,000 visitors each year. Natural mineral water plant tour Special seminar held at a beer plant 193 To Create Harmony To Create Harmony To Create Harmony To Create Harmony Corporate with Customers with Nature with Society with Employee Governance and Partners To Create Harmony with Society: Cultural and Social Contribution Supporting Challenged Sports Suntory Challenged Sports Project The Suntory Group started supporting challenged sports in 2014 as part of our recovery support for the disaster-stricken Tohoku region. In 2015, we have worked broadly in efforts such as expanding and strengthening our initiatives while bringing together athletes to reach beyond the framework of recovery support. ■PASSION FOR CHALLENGE -Reaching for Dreams United -Challenged athletes have the resolve to persevere beyond any limitations regardless of disability. Suntory has been forging avenues to a variety of new fields since its founding based on the Yatte Minahare challenging spirit. This is exactly the reason Suntory empathizes with the passion and perseverance of these athletes. We are broadening these activities based on our desire to support these athletes to overcome any challenges and support their infinite potential. 1．Official Partner (1)Japanese Para-Sports Association (From 2015) (2)Japan Wheelchair Basketball Federation (From 2015) (3)Wheelchair Basketball Teams: Miyagi MAX and TEAM EARTH (Fukushima) Russell Iwate and SCRATCH (From 2015) (4)Japan Table Tennis Federation For Intellectual Disability (From 2020) ２．Hands-on Classrooms We have held more than 47 handson ba sketball clinics by inviting instructors from Miyagi MAX and other teams to teach at elementary and junior high schools as well as other public facilities, to cultivate awareness and popularize challenged sports. We also offer experience in a broad range of competitions from blind soccer and blind marathons to chair skiing and boccia. Number of Participants: Cumulative Total of Approx. 5,500 (As of January 2020) 194 ３．Suntory Challenged Athlete Subsidy We provide grants to challenged spor ts with the aim of training and empowering athletes at a global level in Iwate, Miyagi and Fukushima prefectures. Grant Recipients: 294 Individuals/129 Organizations ( Total of approx. 206,000,000 yen) (As of January 2020) 4．Introductory Workshop to Wheelchair Sports (Students: Persons with No Experience and Supports of Wheelchair Sports) The goal of these workshops is to expand the range of wheelchair sports. 13 clinics have been held in Iwate, Miyagi and Fukushima prefectures up until now by inviting Daisuke Hashimoto, who acquired a rehabilitation sports instruction license from the German Paralympic Committee, as the instructor. 5．Sports Equipment Donations/Sports Facility Renovations Suntory has donated sports equipment such as competitive wheelchairs to Iwate, Miyagi and Fukushima prefectures and conducted renovations of facilities, including the gymnasium where Miyagi MAX trains in order to facilitate an appropriate challenged sports environment. Facility renovations: 3 locations; Sports wheelchairs: 35; STT table-tennis tables: 5 6．Event Sponsorship We sponsor and support the operation of the events below to popularize wheelchair basketball as well as put in place a competitive environment. We are conducting various initiatives to bring even greater affinity to these sports. (FY2019 Results) (1)Wheelchair Basketball Championship Emperor's Cup Sponsorship of the Competition and Expansion of Various Measures as a Special Sponsor Wheelchair Basketball Hands-on Booth Exhibition and Give-away Sample Program A Wheelchair Basketball Experience Corner with VR Video Gives Everyone a First-hand Simulated Experience from the Eyes of the Athlete During a Match Suntory Wheelchair Basketball Corner Hands-on Shooting Corner Installed for Everyone to Try Shooting Hoops from an Actual Wheelchair Secondary Awards Winners of the MVP, Score Leader and Special Suntory Yatte Minahare-Go for it Prizes Receive 1-year of Suntory Products (2)International Women's Wheelchair Basketball Friendship Games OSAKA CUP (3)World Challenge Cup International Wheelchair Basketball Competition (4)Kitakyushu Champions Cup International Wheelchair Basketball Competition 195 7．Employee Participation and Enlightenment (1)Suntor y conduc ted hands-on wheelchair ba sketball clinics a s well a s demonstrations though National Team athletes at the sof tball competition for employees of the Suntory Group who work in the Kanto region (approx. 3,600). The rugby and volleyball teams from Suntory participated to bring about an exchange through sports which eliminates any boundary felt due to a disability. (Conducted since 2015) (2)Competition Spectators (Number of Participants Watching and Cheering on Athletes in 2018: Approx. 510) Suntory provided information for employees to go watch the Japan Para Championships (2015), Kitakyushu Champions Cup International Wheelchair Basketball Competition (2015), 2015 IWBF Asia-Oceania Championship Cup (2015), International Women's Wheelchair Basketball Friendship Games OSAKA CUP (2016, 2017, 2020), Japan Wheelchair Basketball Championship (2016, 2017, 2018, 2019) and the World Challenge Cup International Wheelchair Basketball Competition (2017, 2018, 2019). (3)Competition Volunteers A total of 15 people participated in the All-Japan Wheelchair Basketball Championship (2016), the Japan Wheelchair Rugby Championships (2016) and hands-on classrooms. 8．Video Produced to Explain Wheelchair Basketball Rules Suntory produced a video to describe the rules of wheelchair basketball in an easy-to-understand manner through animation to show at competitions such a s the All-Japan Championships to bring greater awareness to wheelchair basketball. 9．A VR Video Gives Everyone a First-hand Perspective from the Eyes of Wheelchair Basketball Athlete During Competition Suntory produced a VR video with the participation of Japan National Team members (2016) to simulate the perspective of the athletes during a match to demonstrate the intensity and grace of wheelchair basketball. 196 10．Publishing OUR PASSION Project Series on the Suntory Homepage We publish OUR PASSION about perseverance through interviews with athletes and staff who are involved with Suntory Challenged Sports Projects to bring enlightenment and popularize both the players and the sports. 11．Activity Support for Challenged Athlete Mami Tani (Formerly Mami Sato) Mami Tani has competed in the three Paralympic Games back-to-back in the running long jump. She transitioned to Para-triathlons in 2016. Mami Tani has been engaged in various CSR activities that include an invitation speech for the 2020 Tokyo Games and reconstruction support. 197 To Create Harmony To Create Harmony To Create Harmony To Create Harmony Corporate with Customers with Nature with Society with Employee Governance and Partners To Create Harmony with Society: Cultural and Social Contribution Employee Volunteer Employee Volunteer Activities ■Basic policy The Suntory Group conducts a wide range of social contribution activities based on its spirit of giving back to society, but a relationship between society and every Group employee is also important. We actively suggest that employees use time created through work style reform promoted throughout the entire Group to participate in employee volunteer activities to discover new value and serve as opportunities for individual growth. In FY2019, some 7,000 Suntory Group employees worldwide and 1,300 employees in Japan took part in volunteer activities. ■Providing Opportunities to Volunteer We launched the internal company website site Suntory Volunteers. In addition to volunteer information, we post information that allows users to learn about actual volunteering experience through formats such as Volunteer Activity Diary, Experience Reports, and Volunteer Roundtable based on the catchphrase Making use of one's own abilities outside of work is enriching. Additionally, Suntory Volunteers has partnered with Volunteer Web (provided by the Japan Philanthropic Association) to use its activity introduction and application system. The Let's Cut Fabric and Picture Book Delivery international volunteer programs have been bundled into a package with the cooperation of NPOs and published on the Suntory Volunteers Web and have been successfully in areas requested by our employees. Furthermore, we established the Volunteer Leave Program as part of this support system. Internal Volunteer information Site Volunteer Web Suntory Volunteers 198 ■nformation on Volunteer Activities Sponsored by Suntory Suntory Group Global Water Action As the world turned its attention to the importance of water for United Nations World Water Day on March 22, Suntory Group took action as Mizu to Ikiru Suntory by organizing the worldwide Suntory Group Global Water Action to keep individual employees aware of and inspired to act on the ideals behind Mizu to Ikiru. The volunteer theme is water. Throughout the world, Suntory Group employees will simultaneously organize water-related volunteer activities, such as beach cleaning. Overseas group companies will strengthen their activities at the same time. Suntory Group Global Water Action Poster and T-shirt Suntory Natural Water Sanctuary Forest Maintenance Volunteer Activity We held this volunteer activity for the purpose of making our employees understand and experience just how serious Suntory is about how to live in harmony with nature. By cutting the evergreen shrubs, we allowed the sunlight to reach the soil and promoted the growth of various types of vegetation including deciduous broad-leaved trees. Volunteer Activity at Natural Water Sanctuary Hyogo Nishiwaki Monryuzan Volunteer Activity to Provide Disaster Support Volunteers were dispatched so that each employee could help victims, in addition to the company making donations and supplying goods after the Western Japanese Torrential Rain occurred in 2018 and Typhoon No. 19 (Hagibis) in 2019. In two years, more than 200 employees took part in assisting impacted homes with mud removal from beneath floors, clearing of furniture, the cleaning of apple fields, and other tasks in places such as Okayama Prefecture, Tochigi Prefecture, and Nagano Prefecture. Disaster volunteers in 2018 and 2019 199 Kumamoto Flower Project Volunteer Activity This activity was conducted In collaboration with Suntory Flowers as part of the Suntory Land of Water Kumamoto Support Project. We delivered flower seedlings to temporary housing facilities in Mashiki, Kashima, and Mifune, three towns near the Kyushu Kumamoto Plant which particularly received extensive damage during the Kumamoto earthquake, and planted Safinia with local residents. Planting flowers at a temporary housing facility in Kumamoto Hojukai Assisting with Window Cleaning at Senior Care Facilities and Nursery School Sports Events Each year Suntory Group employees perform gardening, window cleaning, provide management support for sports events, and other work together with facility staff at elderly care facilities and child daycare centers operated by the social welfare organization Hojukai. Also, new employees of the Suntory Group also participate in volunteer activities such as road cleaning and weed removal after receiving training at each facility regarding the history of the Hojukai and the founders' ideas about social contribution. Volunteers busy Volunteers at work planting flowers Volunteers at a sports event held cleaning windows and pulling weeds at Tsubomi Nursery School Volunteer Activity for Managing the Kashima Gatalympics and Innoshima Suigun Matsuri, an Event Which Received the Suntory Prize for Community Cultural Activities Volunteers joined the fun with people locally at events such as the Suntory Prize for Community Cultural Activities 2017 prize winner Kashima Gatalympics, where they helped with competition judging, and 2018 winner Innoshima Suigun Matsuri, where they helped with operations, including transporting taiko drums. Gatalympics competition volunteers Innoshima Suigun Matsuri operations volunteers 200 Beautification Activities at Offices The Suntory Group's offices located around the country engage in environmental beautification efforts by cleaning up the vicinity and participating in garbage cleanups organized by local governments. In November 2018, Suntory participated in the Tokyo Bay Cleanup Campaign, which it has been supporting and co-sponsoring from 2003, with employees and 23 family members joining local residents and businesses, and ultimately gathering roughly 170kg of litter. Musashino brewery employees and Ujigawa Plant employees help family members help clean up the clean up around the factory banks of the Tama River ■Information on Volunteer Activities Sponsored by Suntory Group Companies P LOVE GREEN -Pronto Corp. We announced the P LOVE GREEN campaign after reviewing the basic principles to become a junction to bring about creation for the future by providing peace and joy to the minds and bodies of customers as well as the origins of Green, which is the brand color of Pronto, in April 2010. This activity is a project unique to Pronto for the purpose of being kind to people and the environment while offering excitement that has been named P LOVE GREEN. This project broadens the provision of menus, goods, in-store environment, and entertainment and even community contribution activities. We also contributed to greenification business after the Great East Japan Earthquake, starting with donations to the Tokyo Green Project in fiscal 2010 as one of our activities. In 2012 and 2015, we received a gratitude letter from the Minister of Agriculture, Forestry, and Fisheries. In addition, because disasters have occurred in various places each year, we have been working with local children since the Great East Japan Earthquake occurred in March 11, 2011 mainly on tree-planting activities to restore the greenery of each disaster-stricken area. Tree planting Supporting the Kiritappu Wetland National Trust -Häagen-Dazs Japan, Inc. Häagen-Dazs Japan has been providing support for the Kiritappu Wetland National Trust in Hamanaka, Akkeshi since 2007 for the Konsen ward of Hokkaido, which is a production area of milk used as an ingredient for ice cream. Kiritappu Wetland has also been registered in Ramsar Convention in 1993 as the third largest wetland in Japan. Our employees are conducting volunteer activities to preserve the scenery of the wetlands by repairing the boardwalk together with the local people every year in addition to Landscape repair of boardwalk (2014) providing financial support. These volunteer activities are planned to be continued every year with 2018 being the 12th year of these activities. 201 Donations of Ice Cream to Food Bank -Häagen-Dazs Japan, Inc. Since 2007, Häagen-Dazs Japan has been donating food products to a food bank activity* run by Second Harvest Japan, a non-profit organization. Each year we offer ice cream to children at social welfare facilities during summer vacation and the Christmas season.As in 2018, employees of Suntory and Häagen-Dazs Japan again collaborated in 2019 to volunteer for a food bank that delivers ice cream to mother and child support facilities, child-care facilities, etc., and visited facilities to deliver Häagen-Dazs ice cream. *Food bank activity: An activity during which food products are provided to social welfare facilities, etc. These donated food products were previously discarded in spite of no safety issues in the manufacturing and distribution processes. Supporting the Revitalization of Communities with Flowers -Suntory Flowers Ltd. Suntory Flowers is providing flowers for areas such as parks to allow even more people to experience a life in a community with flowers. The Red Flower Project has expanded throughout Japan since 2012 to play a role in revitalizing communities by planting flowers in parks and public facilities in each area of Japan under the slogan, Revitalizing Japan with Red Flowers! We donated Surfinia Red flowers to organization in each community in Japan. From 2015, we have expanded the scope of our activities even further to engage in Big Flower Red Flower Planting Project Project . In addition, we will continue our activities from 2019 to make as many people smile as possible through the power of flowers, focusing on reconstruction assistance in Tohoku and Kumamoto as part of the Tomorrow's Flowers Project. ■Information on Volunteer Activities at Overseas Group Companies At Beam Suntory, some 2,000 employees from 55 regions across 14 countries participated in clean-up activities and disaster support during its April 2019 Together for Good initiative. At Suntory Beverage & Food Asia in Vietnam, volunteer activities were organized in conjunction with the expansion of the next-generation Suntory Mizuiku Natural Water Education Program. Suntory Beverage & Food Europe volunteers participated in food banks, beach cleaning, and other activities. Also, coordinators around the world responsible for promoting volunteer activities came together for the Global Volunteer Meeting to study future volunteer activities. Clean-up at Beam Suntory River cleaning at Suntory Beverage Global Volunteer Meeting & Food Europe 202 To Create Harmony To Create Harmony To Create Harmony Corporate with Customers To Create Harmony and Partners with Nature with Society with Employee Governance Sustainability Initiatives To Create Harmony with Employee Diversity Management The Suntory Group pursues diversity on the basis of its human resource management philosophy. By promoting diversity in our employee base as well as embracing diverse values and ideas, we can bring forth even greater value. In an effort to maximize the potential of each and every employee in a work environment that overflows with creativity, the Suntory Group is currently putting high priority on developing talented employees who face the challenges of value creation head-on. We have established methods to encourage employees to work hard to achieve even higher goals without the fear of failure. * This applies to 6,785 employees under employment of Suntory Holdings Ltd. or Suntory Beverage & Food Ltd. and work at Suntory Holdings Ltd., Suntory Beverage & Food Ltd., Suntory Products Ltd., Suntory Wellness Ltd., Suntory Spirits Ltd., Suntory Beer Ltd., Suntory Liquors Ltd., Suntory Wine International Ltd., Suntory MONOZUKURI Expert Ltd. Suntory Business System Ltd. Suntory Communications Ltd., Suntory Beer, Wine & Spirits Japan Ltd. and Suntory Global Innovation Center Ltd., etc. (As of December 31, 2019; excluding global Group expansion) Basic Policy on Human Development of Employment Status Resource Human Resources We aim to create an environment 2019 data for employees that work in Based on a fair and reasonable human that enables each employee to work the Suntory Group is provided. resource system, we are working with enthusiasm and challenge, and to create an environment where bring out their full potential. employees can develop and harness their capabilities to the full. Promoting Work-Life Labor/Management Promoting Diversity Balance Relations We endeavor to create an organization We strive to foster work-life balance We strive to foster work-life balance that enables diverse employees to carry in employee-friendly workplaces in employee-friendly workplaces out Yatte Minahare through the where diverse employees can make where diverse employees can make promotion of employee diversity and full use of their capabilities. full use of their capabilities. acknowledgment of their differences. 203 Occupational Health Group Global Human Health management and Safety Resources Department We promote occupational health and safety We have started health management Suntory is involved in a wide range of based on the belief that a workplace where from 2016 to further promote the initiatives on a global level as global employees can work with peace of mind is health of our employees and their expansion accelerates. connected to the vibrancy of the company. families. 204 Sustainability Action Plan Target achieved: Achieved 70% or more: Achieved less than 70%: Prioritized Mid-Term Results in FY2019 FY2020 Action Plan Evaluation items Targets ・Hold human rights seminars under themes about Cultivate an addressing assimilation ・Held human rights seminars at nine organizational issues of discriminated production plants (92 managers culture that communities, especially in participated). puts respect for the Kinki area (tentatively ・Introduced stratified human rights Respect for human rights planned for ten offices). seminars for Suntorians from junior Human Rights first and establish ・Continually introduce employees to newly appointed groupwide stratified human rights managers and executives in addition human rights seminars for newly to conducting training for plant management appointed executives, managers. mechanisms newly appointed managers, plant managers, and junior employees. ・Created a system for sharing the company philosophy. We collaborated from the planning stage to directly confront and solve management challenges unique to ・Promote greater efficiency each Group company and conducted by transitioning to training programs for sharing the company webinars for stratified philosophy. This system shared training and other Enhance human examples at joint Group company seminars. resource meetings to provide information for ・Create a system for sharing Development development wider dissemination at each Group the company philosophy of Human system and company, which also helped explore with Group companies Resources promote Yatte new needs. worldwide. Minahare spirit of ・Vitalized“Terakoya”activities ・Cultivate an organizational employees We hosted numerous events with set culture of independent targets to cultivate an organizational learning, mentoring, and culture of independent learning connection by vitalizing and mentoring with great results. the Terakoya”learning Site access: 7,271 people (110% of platform within Suntory. previous year); participants: 2,646 people (up 125% of previous year); festivals; 120 events (up 115% of previous year) 205 Prioritized Mid-Term Results in FY2019 FY2020 Action Plan Evaluation items Targets ・Provided e-Learning to every employee to encourage the understanding and practice of diversity and inclusion by everyone, and held unconscious bias training for managers. ・Hired two new employees with intellectual disabilities in 2019 to form a 16 person team entrusted with tasks ・Continually hold requested by more than 100 Group unconscious bias companies. themed training to bring Realize diversity We have built a platform to encourage understand about diversity management that employment and work commitments and inclusion and incite creates greater through the exchange of information prudent action by each Promoting value through at group interviews and the Human person. Diversity accepting and Resources Conference. ・Formulate and further utilizing diverse ・Launched the SHINE network of activities under various values and ideas women throughout the Group globally themes, such as LGBT, and introduced new career training for seniors, global inclusivity, young female employees. We also held gender, and disabilities, to seminars lead by female managers to promote greater diversity. encourage diversity and inclusion by management-senior general managers in particular-and conducted activities to realize a fair workplace free of gender discrimination (ratio of female managers: 10.4% with 177 female managers [up 0.4% with 11 new female managers]). ・Furthered initiatives underpinned by Transform the work-style innovation promotion ・Further initiatives to working styles leader system, accelerated knowledge heighten employee Promoting and create expansion (number of posts and motivation (interest) Work-Life workplaces where access to knowledge website underpinned by the workBalance each person can compared to previous year: 141% style innovation promotion make full use of and 170%), and promoted the use leader system. their capabilities of RPA (90,000 hours of automation annually). 206 To Create Harmony To Create Harmony To Create Harmony Corporate with Customers To Create Harmony and Partners with Nature with Society with Employee Governance To Create Harmony with Employees: Diversity Management Basic Policy on Human Resource Suntor y Group strives to be a group that continues to create new values through suppor ting the professional independence of each employee. Basic Policy on Human Resource Suntory Group has a human resource policy based on diversity management on the basis of our diverse employees and aims to realize Growing for Good by creating an environment that enables each employee to work with enthusiasm by fully utilizing their potential. Employment centered on the person, without considering their nationality, gender, age or disabilities Assign the appropriate person for the right job to utilize their individual skills Offering compensation based on individual performance A fresh and lively corporate culture is sustained by the employees who perform work and at the same time represent ordinary citizens. We will continue striving to be a company that can take on new challenges based on the spirit of Yatte Minahare-Go for it! spirit through implementing a system and creating an environment that are both challenging and comfortable to work in. ■Investigating the Organizational Climate of the Company with an Employee Awareness Survey The Suntory Group utilizes management policies by continually monitoring the awareness of its employees in realization of Growing for Good. In recent years, these surveys have been widely expanded to Group companies with surveys conducted at 60 companies in 2019. The results have played a role in solving many issues by providing feedback to the heads of departments. ■Commitment to Local Employment The Suntory Group is actively hiring locally at each of its business locations to foster ongoing sustainable growth together with the local communities where it conducts business. Approximately 20,000 employees are working at Suntory Group companies overseas, most of whom were hired locally. The overseas ratio is roughly 53% of Suntory's total employment. As a general rule, our overseas Group companies hire executives and upper management personnel locally. 207 To Create Harmony To Create Harmony To Create Harmony Corporate with Customers To Create Harmony and Partners with Nature with Society with Employee Governance To Create Harmony with Employees: Diversity Management Employment Status 2019 data for employees that work in the Suntory Group is provided. Employment Status at Suntory Group Employment Status at the Suntory Group as of December 31, 2019 is as below. ■Number of Employees (as of December 31, 2019) * SHD: Suntory Holdings Ltd. * SBF: Suntory Beverage & Food Ltd. ■Average age and average length of employment (as of December 31, 2019) 2015 2016 2017 2018 2019 SHD SBF SHD SBF SHD SBF SHD SBF SHD SBF Average age 39.6 41.7 40.8 42.0 41.3 42.3 41.7 42.6 42.1 42.8 Average tenure 16.3 17.3 16.6 17.6 17.1 17.8 17.5 18.1 17.7 18.3 * SHD: Suntory Holdings Ltd. * SBF: Suntory Beverage & Food Ltd. 208 ■Age and Ratio (as of December 31, 2019) (employees/%) 2019 SHD+SBF Male Female Total Ratio 60s 456 44 500 7% 50s 1,182 281 1,463 22% 40s 1,546 316 1,862 27% 30s 1,485 504 1,989 29% 20s 579 392 971 14% Total 5,248 1,537 6,785 100% Ratio 77% 23% ■Number of Employees (as of December 31, 2019) (employees) 2015 2016 2017 2018 2019 SHD SBF Total SHD SBF Total SHD SBF Total SHD SBF Total SHD SBF Total Male 42 13 55 41 14 55 45 13 58 43 14 57 44 14 58 Female 3 1 4 4 1 5 2 3 5 2 3 5 1 3 4 Executives 45 14 59 45 15 60 47 16 63 45 17 62 45 17 62 Male 1,392 607 1,999 1,422 627 2,049 1,432 643 2,075 1,459 654 2,113 1,497 668 2,165 Female 166 33 199 185 34 219 200 40 240 217 40 257 231 42 273 Managers 1,558 637 2,195 1,607 661 2,268 1,632 683 2,315 1,676 694 2,370 1,728 710 2,438 Male 2,432 741 3,173 2,429 745 3,174 2,438 741 3,179 2,420 729 3,149 2,375 708 3,083 Female 964 188 1,152 976 205 1,181 995 224 1,219 1,011 239 1,250 1,012 252 1,264 Members 3,396 932 4,328 3,405 950 4,355 3,433 965 4,398 3,431 968 4,399 3,387 960 4,347 Employees 4,954 1,569 6,523 5,012 1,611 6,623 5,065 1,648 6,713 5,107 1,662 6,769 5,115 1,670 6,785 Male 205 45 250 161 42 203 106 31 137 80 28 108 89 30 119 Female 81 15 96 82 22 104 79 19 98 87 113 200 90 115 205 Contract employees, 286 60 346 243 64 307 185 50 235 167 141 308 179 145 324 etc.* Temporary 542 49 591 560 52 612 567 63 630 573 66 639 543 58 601 staff * Contractors and temporary employees: Special contract employees, part-time employees, added SBF partner employees from 2018. * SBF Partner Employees: Temporary staff that have become permanent employees. * SHD: Suntory Holdings Ltd. * SBF: Suntory Beverage & Food Ltd. 209 ■Number of employees (employees) 2015 2016 2017 2018 2019 SHD SBF SHD SBF SHD SBF SHD SBF SHD SBF Male 81 20 79 20 68 17 69 16 70 24 New graduates Female 43 18 43 19 48 20 45 16 47 18 Male 19 2 17 0 13 4 14 5 9 1 Experienced workers Female 8 6 7 5 3 7 11 5 5 0 Total 151 46 146 44 132 48 139 42 131 43 * SHD: Suntory Holdings Ltd. * SBF: Suntory Beverage & Food Ltd. ■Number of resignees and reasons/turnover rate (employees) 2015 2016 2017 2018 2019 Retirement＊1 42 39 39 66 89 Personal 42 53 43 57 53 circumstances＊2 Corporate 0 0 2 1 0 circumstances＊3 Other 5 7 4 8 2 Total＊4 89 99 88 132 144 Turnover rate＊5 0.64% 0.80% 0.67% 0.86% 0.78% *1 Retirement includes flexible-age retirement *2 Resignees of Suntory Beverage & Food (domestic) is 8 in 2015, 6 in 2016, 11 in 2017, 7 in 2018, AND 11 IN 2019. *3 Company circumstances include factory closings and selling of business. Individual circumstances include employment transfers. *4 Covers employees *5 The turnvoer rate is calculated excluding mandatory age retirement 210 ■Retention rate of new graduate hires * Calculated for new graduates hired by Suntory Holdings Ltd. that entered the company from 2012 to 2014. * Hiring of new graduates by Suntory Beverage & Food Ltd. started in 2013 with 91% of the new graduates hired in 2013 remaining with the company after five years. 211 To Create Harmony To Create Harmony To Create Harmony Corporate with Customers To Create Harmony and Partners with Nature with Society with Employee Governance To Create Harmony with Employee: Diversity Management Development of Human Resources Based on a fair and reasonable human resource system, we are working to create an environment where employees can develop and harness their capabilities to the full. Suntory Group has been engaging in development of human resources in the belief that growth of companies originates from human resources. With the current changes in the surrounding environment, we have given a collective name Suntory University for all Group-wide human resource development and training activities, in order to further strengthen them. Build Human Resource System to Develop and Harness Capabilities The Suntory Group’ s human resource system focuses on developing and harnessing the capabilities of each and every employee. Our philosophy is to offer fair and reasonable compensation in accordance with the employee’ s stage of capability development, and the results shown from harnessing those capabilities. The following three themes are central to this basic philosophy. ・Each employee takes on increasingly difficult targets and challenges with a spirit of improvement ・The company offers employees opportunities for skill and career development, and supports their self-actualization ・Compensation is fair, and clearly reflects the employee’ s role and results ■Ability Qualification System and Qualification and Role System The platform of Suntory Group's human resource system is Ability Qualification System and Qualification and Role System. Ability Qualification System is a system which ranks the employees according to their ability to do work. This system is applied to member level employees that are in the process of becoming a professional in business. By clarifying which abilities are required according to the ability qualification level, everyone can be evaluated and treated justly and raise aspiration and raise awareness of achieving a target. Qualification and Role System is a system which ranks the employees according to their ability to do work and roles they must fulfill. This system is applied to manager level employees that exhibit their experience and ability. 212 ■Fair and Reasonable Evaluations It is required to evaluate individual employees in fair and reasonable manner according to their roles and achievements to establish a corporate culture that is based on performance. Thus, Suntory Group holds interviews between superiors and subordinates four times a year to provide evaluations that each and every employee can agree with. Member level employees that Ability Qualification System is applied to create work plan during the setting interview at the beginning of the year and are evaluated through reflecting back their performance and process against that plan and discussing with their superior at review interview. Feedback interviews with their superiors that follow the evaluations are used to pass on the results, discuss expectations and areas for improvement in detail, and encourage understanding of both the evaluation and further development and growth in their capabilities. For manager level positions that have subordinates are evaluated by their superiors and also evaluation from their subordinates are referenced to evaluate how much of their role required were performed from multiple perspectives. We believe that operating a system that employees can agree to will establish a corporate culture based on performance and create an environment where everyone has spirit of improvement. ■Introduction of Challenge Targets From 2013, Challenge Targets was implemented for member level employees. Challenge Targets is a system which the employees set ambitious targets that are more difficult than everyday work of their own and its results are added to performance evaluation. By setting their own challenging target without the fear of failing allows for them to take prudent actions, which strengthen the culture of Yatte Minahare in Suntory Group's DNA. ■Establishment of the Walk the Walk-Yatte Minahare Prize From 2015, the Walk the Walk Yatte Minahare Prize was established for all Suntory Group employees. This award recognizes teams that embody the Yatte Minahare spirit through the undertaking of original activities that challenge the preconceptions of conventional methods. In 2019, the fifth year, 450 teams and 4500 names from all over the world entered. The Suntory Group is continually pursuing the creation of new value on a global basis by working hard and having big dreams. We are working to cultivate a climate allowing employees to take on challenges in-line with the“challenging targets”that were described previously. ■Implementing Evaluation System in Cooperation with Labor Union The labor union conducts a questionnaire for their members about the above mentioned four interviews a year. It surveys how each union member is in agreement through checking if interview with the superior was sufficient or did you understand the result of the evaluation. The results of the surveys are communicated to executive management, and are used to manage and revise the human resources system. Additionally, if any shortfalls in the interviews were seen, management questions the superior who conducted the evaluation and provides guidance. ■Wage System that is Connected with the Evaluation Suntory Group's evaluation index is based on the results of how much of the work plan was achieved and prudent actions set in the code of conduct for each qualification for the member level employees. These two indexes are connected to the raise and bonus in our wage system. For the manager level employees, in addition to their qualification, roles they have taken and achievements made in that role is used is considered in the wage system. In addition, company's performance is made clear according to a set rule and is directly connected business performance as business performance-based bonus and retirement benefit pension system for long term stable pension are also available. 213 ■Introduction of Career Vision The Suntory Group has been operating a system for employees to report the status of their workplace and desire for transfers to the human resource department once a year. We have advanced the placement of employees with the growth of individuals as the primary focus based on these reports more than ever before. In 2013, we created Career Vision for development of each employee and for assignment of the appropriate person to the right job in the aim of promoting each employee to grow mindful of their career. This system merges employees, their superiors, and human resources work to achieve optimum human resource assignments and encourage the growth of every employee. Based on the Career Vision Sheet filled out by each employee, their long-term career goal and efforts needed to achieve the goal are discussed. In 2014, we established a site with information to support each employee's career design on the Intranet and other initiatives to strengthen the system. In addition, we have implemented a job rotation system for employees to experience multiple jobs over roughly ten years from when they enter Suntory to expand the possibilities of young employees. We are actively engaging in individual interviews with employees and the human resource department, including interviews with all fourth year and ninth year employees, to assign the right person to the right place. ■Surveying Employee Awareness and Company Climate We check things from the current situation of employees, the awareness about work, and aspects related to their health, family, and history to their desire for transfer and motivation towards work in interviews with the Career Vision. The results showed that 76.2% of employees felt motivation in their work and 65.6% of employees were satisfied with their work in 2019. The responses of individuals plays a role in assigning the right person to the right place considering the desire of the individual and it connects to the direction of corporate activities. In addition, the Suntory Group conducts surveys about the organizational climate to assess how the corporate philosophy is recognized and understood in the daily operations of each employee that works in the Suntory Group. We are also surveying how employees see the organizational climate of each company and workplace, the policies, and compliance to share and utilize with management as well as each company and each division. We are also conducting employee awareness surveys once every two years overseas. During the 2017 survey, approximately 90% of employees participating in the survey said that they are proud to work for the Suntory Group. FY2018 Work Awareness 214 ■Selected as One of the Most Admired Companies by Fortune Suntory was ranked 4th in 2019 (Beverage and Alcoholic Industry) by Fortune magazine in The World’ s Most Admired Companies, the highest rank ever obtained by a Japanese beverage company. The American magazine Fortune has been ranking global companies every year since 1997. The assessment is conducted for 650 companies with power on the world stage according to criteria for nine key attributes* based on a survey of roughly 4,000 people from corporate management to financial analyst. * ( 1 )Innovation ( 2 )People Management ( 3 )Use of Corporate Assets ( 4 )Social Responsibility ( 5 )Quality of Management ( 6 )Financial Soundness ( 7 )Long-Term Investment Value ( 8 )Quality of Products/Services ( 9 )Global Competitiveness Suntory has participated in the survey since 2013. We earned high marks in innovation, social responsibility and the quality of our products and services. We will strive to continue to be recognized worldwide in the future with pride in the high regard we have already earned around the globe for our corporate activities. Suntory Receives Grand Prize at the Third Nikkei Smart Work Awards (Awarded for the second consecutive year) We achieved five stars-the highest accolade-at Nikkei Inc.'s Nikkei Smart Work Survey 2019, and have received the S++ rank for the third year in a row in the Personnel Utilization category in particular. Our numerous ef for ts in promoting diversity through the utilization of female/senior citizen personnel and the establishment of a collaboration center, and in creating diverse and flexible work styles with active roles by work style reform leaders and incorporation of robotic process automation (RPA) software in all of our companies, etc. have led to this solid reputation. Opening of Suntory University The Suntory Group is supporting the development of employees based on the belief employees have always been the source of growth for companies. Suntory University was opened in April 2015 as a place for all people at Suntory to learn and unite as ONE SUNTORY with the founding spirits as a shared value. We endeavor to support our employees through a broad range of development of initiatives. The vision of Suntory University; Encourage every Suntorian to contribute to Suntory Group’ s business growth, having Founding Spirits in heart as its core value. The vision also includes the realization of One Suntory globally through understanding of the founding spirits by all group employees. Suntory University provides learning opportunities to all of the employees who belong to the Suntory Group in three fields; leadership development, the founding spirits and 2030 capabilities. ■Founding Spirits: To realize“ONE SUNTORY”globally by sharing the Suntory’ s DNA; including our founding spirits. We have started and are planning to expand the activities at all group companies to share and deepen understanding of the founding spirits,“Yatte Minahare”spirit and the spirit of“Sharing the Profit with Society”. 215 Ambassador Program This program targets employees of overseas Group companies and aims to raise their understanding of Suntory and nurture unity as a member of the Group. When they return to their company, they will become ambassadors and share what they have learned with others. The Ambassador Program aims to spread Suntory’ s Mission, Vision, Values and Founding Spirits, as well as to drive forward the promotion of Global ONE SUNTORY. It has been held more than 20 times since 2012, and the total number of participants is around 600. Participants deepen their understanding about the founding spirits that has been held as most important since the founding of Suntory through various lectures, site visit, workshops and discussions. We will continue to evolve the Ambassador Program further in the future to share the founding spirits that is the strength of the Suntory Group globally. We will forge ahead in creating a truly global ONE SUNTORY. Suntory Hall Suntory Mizuiku Tea Ceremony Experience at Natural Water Education Program The Suntory Museum of Art Tea Room Implemented within Japan regional programs We have built in sessions to learn the founding spirits within various regional programs such as junior employee program and new manager induction program. In particular, newly appointed managers visit the Suntory Museum of Art and Suntory Hall. This gives an opportunity for participants to directly see and feel how Suntory’ s corporate philosophy has been carried out and also deepen the understanding of our value“Sharing the Profit with Society”from management viewpoints. We also give our junior employees a chance to learn the Suntory Group values directly by having site visit to facilities such as Yamazaki distillery and Domyoji Takadonoen nursing facility founded by Suntory. Suntory Hall site visit Forest Development Activities 216 ■Leadership development: To develop future leaders who can drive global growth for the Suntory Group We provide opportunities for our employees to develop their leadership through customized programs including action learning, case method, workshop with senior management etc. and carefully craft the programs so that they always link to management strategies. Suntory Harvard Program The Suntory Harvard Program aims to provide employees with a broad and expansive view of the global environment, and understand how successful businesses thrive in a complex, competitive and rapidly changing global economic environment. This program will broaden a perspective to be true global leaders and global thinkers, to establish a strategic roadmap for Suntory’ s future, lead culture transformation, leverage diversity and embrace inclusion to accelerate innovation and disruption in our industries. GLF We held the Global Leadership Forum (GLF) for the senior leaders that is selected from entire Suntory Group companies to develop future global leaders in 2016, 2017, and 2018. (We are planning to hold GLF in 2020 again) Purpose of the program is outlined below; ・To strengthen connections among senior leaders extending their professional network ・To enable sharing of knowledge and experience and to leverage the enterprise-wide mindset and perspective ・To be inspired with new ideas and approach toward leadership through listening to a diverse range of leaders’discussion. The program is packed with content great for stimulating participants such as workshops held with guest speakers in addition to the large contributions made by top management in creating materials and as session lecturers on that day. Beyond Borders The Beyond Borders Program aims to accelerate the development of cross enterprise leadership capabilities for senior leaders across the organization. In 2019, 23 participants were selected from around the world. The program consistent of four modules over ten months. The module themes include: Self-Leadership and Culture Development, Innovation, and Strategy. Following each module participants were assigned to teams to focus on a Project that allowed them to apply their learning against real business challenges and opportunities. 217 GLDP The Global Leadership Development Program (GLDP) is a six-month joint leadership development program designed and facilitated by Suntory University and M Ø ller Institute, University of Cambridge. The objective of this program is to build and develop a holistic leadership capability such as developing a global leadership mindset, broadening perspectives for the future, and networking within Suntory and other leaders across the globe. This program consists of three face-to-face modules in Auckland, Cambridge and Tokyo, along with Action Learning Projects and coaching sessions in between, to help participants apply. their learnings and contribute to Suntory’ s Vision for 2030. In the final module, they make business proposals to executive leaders by integrating all their learnings throughout the program. In 2019-2020 cohort, 24 leaders from Suntory Group companies gathered from around the world. Leadership Enhancement Program We began a nine-month training program in 2017 to of fer introspection for leadership to better their skills by concentrating on the Suntory Leadership Competencies for a total of 35 senior general managers, general managers, and middle managers selected in japan to develop as human resources for future corporate management. This has greatly influenced everyone around these managers through discussions with other management levels over the three times this program has been held. We also will deepen self-awareness as leaders through stratified executive coaching, management literacy training, and sessions to interact with people in different industries. To drive the strength of our domestic business which makes up more than half of Suntory sales, we will actively work to enhance the skills of our human resources in Japan. Joint Session with Various Levels of Management 218 Other Development Programs in Japan Number of Name Description participants 2010 ー 2019 2019 Career Individual tailored program for junior employees to enhance skills needed for Challenge global business (language, cultural awareness, cross-cultural communication, 8 75 Program leadership, logical thinking, management through figures, etc.) Company Sending talented high potential employees to oversea’ s top business schools to sponsored 4 26 study in global environment. MBA Trainees brush up their professional skills, gain language and communication Trainee skills, global business skills, and leadership skills through on the job training at 13 93 program overseas companies. Workshop in the Career Challenge Program Deploying Staff Overseas for On-the-Job Training ■Infrastructure human resource development (Japan only): To continually support and nurture every Suntory Group employee This department spearheads the skills of each and every employee and provides a place to open up avenues to one’ s career by recognizing themselves as the owner of their own careers. The program has been structured based on two axes; Growth as a Suntorian (stratified training from junior employee to manager) as well as Career Independence and Self Enlightenment (career support) for employees in Japan. Stratified Training Stratified training deepens education under various themes that include the desired skills and knowledge as well as management skills and leadership at each level of employment from junior employees to new appointed professionals, new managers, and newly appointed senior general managers. This department incorporates programs to foster the growth of each employee who supports the Suntory Group for junior employees to managers. In addition, basic training programs suitable for each stage of business are also conducted in each department from sales to production. 219 Supporting Career Planning and Development of Each Employee The Suntory Group established the Career Support Section in 2007. This section supports the independent career development of each and ever y employee through ef for ts that include individual career consulting with exper t advisors, follow-up interviews after a personnel transfer, workshops by generation and other follow-up interviews. All of our employees systematically take career workshops that support each generation under the concepts of enthusiasm in unique work styles and work enjoyment as the owner of their careers. Employees build avenues to consider their careers in their fourth year with the company, and then design their own career path in their tenth year to pursue into the future. We also conduct workshops for each generation for the purpose of evoking a career vision in our employees based on deep self-understanding to drive their careers in the future as professionals in their 40s beginning when they are 38. We also support career planning and development that strives to create a brighter future in life through work with themes from reaffirming growth in the future at 53 to cultivating potential by taking advantage of the skills cultivated up until now at 58 in addition to the adoption of an extension of retirement to age 65. Development Concepts/Overall Training and Self Enlightenment Programs Framework We have built an education system that responds to the specific skills and attributes that are required to support the growth of Suntorians. ■Various Development Programs Employees need to continually strive to be optimistic by taking responsibility of their own careers to work enthusiastically and grow as an individual with a unique work style. Therefore, the Suntory Group has adopted the Suntory SelfDevelopment Program (SDP) as a self-enlightenment support program. In particular, Group employees in Japan can take courses available for everyone as Elective Training to not only learn the course content but also take advantage of the program as an effective means to building a network between Group companies. Furthermore, in recent years, we are enhancing our support in strengthening English skills as a way to respond to globalization. We have prepared a broad support system from small group lessons at the office to private lessons at schools, e-learning and distance learning for beginning level students as well as upper level students who use English in their daily work. In the future, we will continue to support employees who strive to move forward with optimism. 220 Main self-development programs and the number of participants in FY2019 Type of training Description People Elective training provides approximately 30 different types of courses (twice/year) with Elective training＊ training designed to teach the necessary business skills to succeed in the career plans 1052 envisioned by our employees This program provides various courses such as in-office English lessons and online lessons Enhancing aimed to enhance business communications skills in English. A wide range of support 246 English ability＊ content is available so that students can effectively take the course best suited for their skill level. This training program aims to heighten the ability to execute operations and gain the e-Learning knowledge required for operational innovation. 100 The courses include business skills, language acquisition, and computer skills. Suntory provides support for up to half the costs of schools and distance learning Financial Support programs aimed at improving students skills (up to maximum limit). System for Attending The courses that can be taken range from the skills necessary to execute operations 106 School and Distance (accounting, legal knowledge, etc.) to improving language skills and acquiring Learning certifications * These are elective programs that employees can participate on their own accord which the company will take on some of the training costs Programs Unique to the Suntory Group The Suntory Group has been conducting original elective training programs since 2013 to preserve and continually install the unique aspects of Suntory that includes the various knowledge and work distinct to Suntory. In fiscal 2019, teachers from inside Suntory lead two courses -Suntory Product Design Secrets as well as Suntory’ s Secret Sauce to Creativity -to teach Group employees who raised their hands to volunteer for the program. These courses can be taken by anyone who wants to participate and volunteers. Employees who have participated have said that they want more programs like this training that is packed with the DNA of Suntory to be held. Mr. Kato, former Senior General Manager of Design, served as the instructor for the Suntory Product Design Secrets course Mr. Wada, Executive Officer at Suntory Beer Ltd., served as the instructor for the Suntory’s Secret Sauce to Quality course 221 ■Promotion of Global ONE SUNTORY Training for New Graduates Across Group Companies in Japan The Suntory Group has deepened its bonds while learning since 2014 by holding training together with multiple Group companies that includes courses about the mindset of professionals a s well a s ba sic business manners based on the hope to drive future synergy by fostering an awareness as an member of the Group from a time when employees are new to the company. The programs were held with the participation of 13 companies* and 64 new employees in 2019. * Suntory Marketing & Commerce Ltd., Suntory Malting Ltd., MONTE BUSSAN K.K., Suntory Publicity Service Ltd., Suntory System Technology Ltd., Suntory Wine International Ltd., Suntory Logistics Ltd., Suntory Chita Distillery, Suntory Foods Okinawa Ltd., Suntory Flowers Ltd., Iwanohara Vineyard Co., Ltd., OKINAWA SUNTORY LIMITED, and Häagen-Dazs Japan, Inc. Company Presentations (presentations given Par ticipant s shown in a group photo by each company about their company) taken at the end of the training session Mid-level Breakthrough Training Together with Group Companies in Japan We held Mid level Brea k t hrough Tra ining for Mid level employees for t he t hird t ime since 2018 wit h 43 employees from 11 companies par ticipating. We held sessions for employees to think about the future of their careers by revisiting their work from first entering the company up until present day as well as universal skills that includes identif ying points for fur ther growth in the future. Manager Training Together with Group Companies in Japan In 2019, the eighth Manager training was held with the participation of 34 employees who have less than three years of managerial experience. Those who are from 13 different companies have learned the standards of managers. Over two days, lectures and role-playing with focus on developing people were held through company and individual presentation as well as by experienced managers. Lecture for senior employees given by Takeshi Sakuta, Executive Officer at Suntory Marketing & Commerce Ltd. 222 Global ONE SUNTORY Program This program targets employees in Suntory’ s group companies all around the world. The main objectives are to deepen understanding of business and strategy in business regions across the Suntory group, discuss opportunities for synergy, and strengthen professional networks across participants. Program contents often include the following topics: ・Sharing of Suntory’ s long-term vision ・Presentations on regional business overviews and strategies ・Workshops to understand Suntory’ s worldwide business and history ・Group discussions on future synergy opportunities ・Cross-cultural communication workshop We will drive synergy and contribute to support for human resource development at each Group company in the future by taking advantage the strengths in various fields brought together at the Suntory Group. Global Online Learning Platform MySU Suntory University launched online learning platform -MySU, expanding into the digital world of learning for all Suntorians across the globe. This digital learning platform directly supports our vision at Suntory University to encourage every Suntorian through learning and capability development to contribute towards Suntory Group’ s business growth. At the new platform MySU employees will find online learning courses, education materials, videos and development tools as well as information about the in-person Global Suntory University development conferences, seminars and experiences. 223 ■Presented the Award for Companies Providing Career Support Suntory Holdings Ltd. was presented with the Minister of Health, Labour and Welfare's Award for Companies Providing Career Support in 2013 held by the Ministry of Health, Labour and Welfare. The Award for Companies Providing Career Support actively supports the development of employees' careers and praises companies based on other criteria for the purpose of raising broad awareness and standardizing career development initiatives. We believe this award highly evaluates our initiatives to actively support the career development of our employees to give each and every person at Suntory enthusiasm and motivation as well as bring the Yatte Minahare spirit to its full potential. Presented with a commemorative plaque at the award ceremony 224 To Create Harmony To Create Harmony To Create Harmony Corporate with Customers To Create Harmony and Partners with Nature with Society with Employee Governance To Create Harmony with Employee: Diversity Management Promoting Diversity We are endeavoring to create an organization that enables diverse employees to carry out Yatte Minahare through the promotion of diversification of characteristics that they hold and respect for their differences. Acceleration of Diversity Promotion To continue ceaselessly in the creation of new value in 2011, we created the Diversity Promotion Section based on our belief in the importance of actively accepting and utilizing a diverse range of human resources and personnel values irrespective of nationality, age, or other attributes. Four prioritized activity areas and five prioritized initiatives were set forth in 2012. We established the Suntory Group Vision for the purpose of creating new value through diverse perspectives and approaches to a multicultural environment in 2017 and will promote even greater diversity throughout the entire Group. [Overcome countries] ■Group Talent Review Suntory conducts a Group talent review once a year to identify, develop and utilize human resources who are able to actively participate in the Group worldwide. The Group talent review is conducted by function such as finance and administration to gather top management at major Group companies and identify the key talent and positions throughout the Group, including formulating plans for successors in those vital positions, and assessing the person-to-person exchanges across countries and businesses. We will strive to expand the content of these reviews in the future. We will promote talent management throughout the Group and the world through these Group talent reviews and other measures in the future. 225 ■Global Employment As the Group expands worldwide, Suntory needs to find human resources who can act as a bridge to each Group company with both a focus on Japan as well as the international community. Suntory Holdings and Beam Suntory have been conducting joint activities to hire new graduates in North America since 2016. These activities help enhance the recruitment efforts of both companies, such as sharing mutual know-how and candidates. In the future, the Group will unite to advance its employment activities toward establishing an employment brand as a Group. [Overcome gender] ■The Advancement of Female Employees The Suntory Group is aiming to increase the ratio of female employees in managerial positions to 20% by 2025. We are conducting various initiatives in Japan by defining challenges such as the awareness and transformation of prudent actions according to the provision of deliberate career advancement opportunities and early return to a full work load for employees who are raising children to continually cultivate female managers. Employees in their fourth year of employment participate in the so-called“The Fourth Year Training”where they are asked to reflect on their lives and careers and to think of how the work productivity can be improved. We support smooth return to work and full engagement of employees who return after maternity leave by providing safety net in the form of baby-sitter programme for those employees who are unable to use daycare facilities, or by bearing the costs of baby-sitting services when a child is sick or in case of other emergency. We organize seminars before and after the maternity leave so as to raise the awareness of employees regarding their duties and to facilitate their full and early return to standard working hours. In addition, simultaneously with the maternity leave follow-up seminars, we provide guidance to the employees’supervisors to enhance the support from the managers to the returning employees. As a result, we have received positive feedback that have midto long-term perspective such as,“My activities have been able to contribute to the entire department and I would like to act as a role model for other employees in the same situation.”Furthermore, managers support the advancement of female employees by demonstrating that they expect their future achievements. In addition, we are conducting a Career Cafe for Female Leaders and Facilitation of External Seminars that target employees one step away from management because deliberate career advancement opportunities should be enhanced for both awareness and skills. This has become an oppor tunity to build fur ther awareness about the challenges through means such as listening to the experience of managers who act as role models and the interaction with other participants both inside and outside of the company. In addition, as a means of strengthening networking for all female managers and experienced employees, we will hold voluntary activities through the holding of women leader forums and the formation of a secretariat by volunteers, as well as expanding the circle of women leaders globally. We aim to accelerate the growth of the entire group in addition to the growth of the individual. We are also actively promoting cooperation with external parties such as the New Generation of Women in Sales College to facilitate ongoing participation over the four years since 2014. Through these activities in Japan, the ratio of female employees in management positions has increased to 10.4% at the end of 2019. We are continuing to innovate working styles and change awareness to realize a company that is an easy place to work and allows our employees to succeed. Group networking women's networking at Group Global 226 ■Female employment data ■Number of male and female employees by Management or Non-management position * December 31, 2019 * This is the total of Suntory Holdings Ltd. and Suntory Beverage & Food Ltd. ■Promoting LGBTQ Activities The Suntory Group continues to engage in LGBTQ activities with the aim of becoming a company where every employee can be themselves and work enthusiastically. We have launched a project team in 2016 to strengthen our LGBTQ initiatives. In 2017, we furthered inclusion with efforts which included the revision of employment regulations to include same sex partners in the definition for spouse, the setup of a consultation office for LGBTQ employees, the creation of an LGBTQ handbook for LGBTQ employees and allies as well as e-learning for all employees. These activities have been award the highest rank of Gold in the PRIDE INDEX*1 advocated by work with Pride*2, which evaluates initiatives for sexual minorities including LGBTQ in the policies of organizations such as corporations and association. Awarded the gold with the highest rating in the LGBTQ initiative index PRIDE index *1 This organization supports the promotion and implementation of diversity management for LGBTQ and other sexual minorities. work with Pride aims to share information and provide opportunities for each company to actively engage in diversity promotion to help build workplaces where LGBTQ people can be themselves while working at Japanese companies. *2 This index is broken down into five categories: 1. Policy, 2. Representation, 3. Inspiration, 4. Development, and 5. Engagement/ Empowerment. This is the first index for LGBTQ in Japan established in 2016. 227 [Overcome handicap] ■Employing Persons with Disabilities The Suntory Group is working to expand the possibilities for persons with disabilities by employing them without considering job type. We actively engage in activities such as opening special contact point for candidates with disabilities, advertising announcements for new graduate and mid-career candidates, and cooperating with Hello Work. In addition, we have advanced job development at all group companies and started Group-wide employment guidance sessions in 2012. The rate of employment for persons with disabilities as of June 1, 2019 was 2.68% at Suntory Holdings Ltd. (employing 102 persons with disabilities with 40 persons with severe disabilities) and 2.79% at Suntory Beverage & Food Ltd. (employing 38 persons with disabilities with 15 persons with severe disabilities). We have held an internship for students who are intellectually disabled since 2014 to further promote their utilization and 20 people have entered the company over the last five years up to April 2020.This team opened the“Collaborative Center”in the Odaiba office in April 2018. In April 2020, we expanded the office to the Osaka office, aiming to provide business support for the entire Suntory Group and practice diversity and inclusion. ■Number of employees with disabilities and employment rate (as of Friday, June 01, 2019) * SHD: Suntory Holdings Ltd. * SBF: Suntory Beverage & Food Ltd. Group-wide Unified Guidance for the Hiring of Persons with Disabilities 228 ■Introduction of Disability Support Leave Policy We introduced the Disability Support Leave Policy in 2013 based on our desire to create an energetic environment more able to utilize persons with disabilities. Five days a year are given as special leave to people who have a disability certificate. This policy can be used regardless of whether an employee works on a full-time or a part-time basis. A handbook has also been created and distributed to support managers supervising persons with disabilities. We are furthering the building of an easier-to-work environment while promoting the employment of persons with disabilities now and into the future. [Overcome age] ■Extension of Retirement to Age 65 The employment needs of individuals after retirement are estimated to grow in the future due to economic reasons after policy revisions such as an increase in the age people may start receiving national pensions as well as a growing desire to continue working. The technical ability and skill that people who have reached retirement age have accumulated are valuable assets from the perspective of the company. The Suntory Group has introduced the Extension of Retirement to Age 65 policy in April 2013 to more widely utilize the experience and high-level skills which senior-level employees have accumulated over many years in addition to responding to the employment needs of employees over the age of 60. This new policy assists employees over the age of 60 to acquire one of three certifications (expert certification, member certification, support certification) that have been newly established according to the certifications and position the person has reached by the age of 60. In addition, we have introduced an assessment of results and prudent actions based on the target management policy even for individuals over the age of 60. The items for the assessment of prudent actions are operational contribution and next generation contribution. Moreover, we are periodically holding Life Plan Seminars that review life after retirement in addition to providing opportunities to think about a senior career at Career Workshops that are always taken by employees while they are in their 50s. We will keep tapping into the knowledge of veteran employees who have accumulated the wealth of experience over the years, and provide them with all necessary support. Mr. Sano leading the customer Mr. Morita leading a lecture on seminar at the Hakushu Distillery quality management ■For each person's thinking innovation Suntory Group Diversity Newsletter Irodori has been issued to all employees since 2015 as one of the priority issues, Innovation of individual thinking. By introducing examples of diversity on the ground, the purpose is to understand the necessity of diversity and link it to my own actions. In addition, based on the importance of accepting and making use of something different from each other, we conduct training for managers to learn about management that utilizes diversity and how to deal with unconscious bias. We will continue to send information regularly to further accelerate diversity awareness activities. 229 Evaluation from External Parties Suntory has been reviewed as follows by external parties as a result of these initiatives. ■Diversity Management Selection 100 An initiative started in 2012 by the Ministry of Economy, Trade and Industry that evaluates and selects companies of various sizes from different industries for their initiatives in diversity management as management able to contribute to economic growth. Fur thermore, it aims to promote the spread of diversity through the communication with selected companies as best practices. ■ 2018 J-win Diversity Award Honors Suntory with the Semi-Grand Prize for Advancement and Development of Women The Diversity Award has been held by NPO J-Win since 2008. J-Win assesses the progress of diversity and inclusion promotion on an absolute scale at each company as well as a relative evaluation of progress to present awards for the purpose of accelerating diversity and inclusion promotion in Japanese companies by commemorating companies leading diversity and inclusion policy. ■Suntory Receives the Highest Eruboshi Certification (Grade 3) for its Work as a Company that Promotes the Utilization of Women Eruboshi is a certification given by the Minister of Health, Labour and Welfare for the goal of promoting the utilization of women at companies based on the Act on Promotion of Women’ s Participation and Advancement in the Workplace. Companies are evaluated based on the following five factors: 1. Level of female employment, 2. Level of continuation of employment by women, 3. Working style (work hours, etc.), 4. Ratio of female employees in management positions, and 5. Existence of diversified career paths. * Acquired by Suntory Holdings Limited ■ Suntory Receives the Highest Kurumin Certification Platinum Kurumin for its Work as a Company that Creates a Supportive Workplace for Employees with Children The Kurumin Mark is a certification given by the Minister of Health, Labour and Welfare to companies that promote the introduction and utilization of systems and implement highstandard initiatives all aimed at promoting efforts which support both work and child rearing based on the Act on Advancement of Measures to Support Raising Next-Generation Children. * Acquired by Suntory Holdings Limited 230 To Create Harmony コーポレー Corporateト お客様 ・お取引先 with Customers To Create自然 Harmony To Create 社会 Harmony 従業員 To Create Harmony と響きあう and Partners with Nature と響きあう with と響きあうSociety with Employee と響きあう Governance ・ガバナンス 従業員と響きあう To Create Harmonyダイバーシティ経営 with Employee: Diversity Management Promoting ワークライフバランスの推進 Work-Life Balance We strive to foster work-life balance in employee-friendly workplaces where diverse employees can make full use of their capabilities. Policies to Reduce Excessive Working Hours We have the target to reduce the total annual working hours per employee to 1,899 hours through increasing the number of paid holidays taken to 16 days a year and further reducing overtime. Ensuring Reasonable Working Hours The Suntory Group works to eliminate excessive working hours and encourage employees to take annual paid leave through cooperation between labor and management, and thoroughly complies with all relevant labor laws, including the laws that govern working hours ー through these measures we aim to create a workplace where employees are healthy and work with enthusiasm. We have abolished unpaid overtime, strictly enforce the rule of turning off all lights throughout the company in order to encourage the employees to go home early, and have created and distributed Revising Working Styles Handbook to increase productivity ー all these measures are designed to increase work productivity and allow more free time for our employees. We have also implemented a system that can track the number of computer use hours and other information. We support self-management of employees and provide guidance for improvement of working styles as necessary. ■Total actual annual working hours * Official working hours in the standard Suntory Group offices are 7.5 hours a day, 121 vacation days and the annual total official working hours is 1,830 hours. * SHD: Suntory Holdings Ltd. * SBF: Suntory Beverage & Food Ltd. 231 ■Annual paid vacations taken * SHD: Suntory Holdings Ltd. * SBF: Suntory Beverage & Food Ltd. Work Style Innovation The Suntory Group is taking steps to innovate work styles with the objective to generate high productivity, high-quality output, and new value creation as well as to allow diverse employees to work with enthusiasm. In 2010, we have removed the restriction of time and place in order to achieve flexible working styles and in principle, removed core time in flextime working, expanded the scope and expanded the number of employees who qualify for teleworking* that allows use in 10 minute increments. In addition, we have introduced a discretionary working hours system in our Research & Technology Development Division as an effort to make working styles that are suitable for work. We are promoting work style innovation in each department in accordance with the particular types of work done by adopting flextime in our R&D departments. New work styles utilizing IT, such as the use of smartphones in sales divisions, are making steady inroads. In addition, we formulated specific action plans in each department. We were able to reduce overtime and increase the number of vacation days taken by employees annually as a result of further executing initiatives appointing work-style innovation promotion leaders and managers in every department united as employees, superiors, and administration. * Teleworking: Working at home or otherwise outside the office ■Various Activities Facilitating Work Style Innovation Measure Description Promoting the use of flex-time and teleworking programs Promoting of flexible work Roughly 80% employees used the teleworking program styles Received the Minister of Health, Labour and Welfare's Award for Enterprises that Promote Telework (Shiny Telework Prize) in 2015. Promotes the use of high-performance video conferences, teleconferences, tablets, smartphones, portable computers, and RPA Promotion of operational Revises policies such as meeting rules and rules to create materials that use the Working Methods efficiency Handbook Continually revise operations from the perspective on-site in each department founded in the work-style innovation promotion leader program. 232 Shares various information and opinions on the online Walk the Walk“Yatte Minahare” work-style innovation knowledge site In 2017, the Suntory Group launched the Walk the Walk“Yatte Minahare”portal site online as a place to communicate and share knowledge related to the promotion of work-style innovation as a means to encourage this work-style innovation. Work-style Innovation Knowledge Site Support employees considering work-life balance We have been working toward expanding our programs that help employees to maintain the balance between work and personal life while being responsive to individual circumstances through the creation of programs providing benefits that exceed what is legally required. We also recognize tackle decrease in number of children social as society in whole and the social responsibility of a company and provide suppor t according to the status of the workplace and needs of the employees. ■Supporting Work as well as Child and Nursing Care with Flexible Work Styles and Programs The programs have become systems that allow employees to always work enthusiastically even when there are constraints on time and place by leveraging flexible working styles such as flex-time and telecommuting as well as the policies below. Child Care Programs We have expanded systems to support child birth and child rearing based on The Act for Partial Revision of the Act for Measures to Support the Development of the Next-Generation Children enacted in April 2005. We have implemented child care leave, shortened and staggered working hour programs which can be used during pregnancy and child rearing. Employees can vastly adjust their work style to meet children's active hours such as dropping off and picking up children at nursery schools. As a result, we acquired the certification mark“Next Generation Development Support Enterprise”from the Ministry of Health, Labour and Welfare in 2008. We started a partially paid child care leave program (Welcome Baby Care Leave) with the purpose of promoting male employees to take child care leave in 2011. The rate of employees taking child care leave in 2019 was 100% for women and 41% for men. Each year the number of men taking child care leave is growing with 180 women and 111 men taking child care leave throughout the year. 233 Nursing Care Programs From April 2011, we have extended the period for systems regarding nursing care (nursing care leave, shortened and staggered working hours and flex-time programs), and clarified the requirements for nursing care leave, eased the requirements for shortened and staggered working hours and flex-time programs in September 2016 to expand the initiatives for nursing. In 2017, we created a nursing care handbook to inform employees about the subject, held nursing care seminars, and invited an outside instructor to speak about topics such as preparations before the start of nursing care. Next generation development support enterprise certification mark* * Next generation development support enterprise certification mark Kurumin : A certification mark awarded by the Ministry of Health, Labour and Welfare to a company that provides environment to support workers that bring up children while working, and engages in other initiatives to support all employees, not limited to working parents. ■Enhancing Support During Child Rearing We have established systems to realize support before, during and after child birth such as supporting employees return to work by subsidizing the cost of corporate contract babysitters in 2012 and support in times of illness or emergencies to enhance the support for families during the period they are raising their children. We also support both work and nursing/child care through providing training to managers to raise their awareness and take innovate actions. Based on suggestions raised by employees who participated in the Child Rearing Project, we have implemented the following measures before taking leave and after returning to work. Before maternity leave: Explanation of the system, providing guidance before maternity leave for all applicants for the main purpose of providing information for a smooth return to work During maternity leave: An online newsletter is issued once a month to introduce timely corporate information, relevant examples of employees who have returned to work and other information helpful in returning to work Returning to work : The company provides subsidies for a defined period of time for babysitters when entry into daycare facilities is difficult After returning to work: Introduction of follow-up seminars after babysitter programs and child care leave during illness and emergencies for the purpose of supporting both after employees return to work while facilitating an early return to a standard workload These initiatives have been praised overall to earn the Grand Prix in the 2016 ranking of companies with a great balance between work and raising children conducted by Nikkei Dual. 234 ■Expanding the Guidance for Fathers with the participation of Male Employees and Supervisors Guidance for Fathers has been held since 2013 for the purpose of raising awareness of male employees even further. We have implemented efforts such as the introduction of role models and informational sharing between participants. A total of roughly 230 male employees have participated in interaction from informational exchange sessions to guidance up until now. We plan to continue to strengthen the content of these efforts in the future. Akasaka Office Kyobashi Office Products Development Center Results of Employees Taking Child Care Leave Overview of policies to support child care (Revised April 2012) 235 Overview of policies to support child and nursing care Item Description Maternity leave As a general rule, six weeks before child birth and eight weeks after child birth Childcare leave As a general rule, can be taken until child reaches three years of age Paid leave for five consecutive days from the day of the start of child care leave Welcome Baby Care (From child birth to reaching a year and half years old) Shortened and Until the child enters junior high school Staggered Working Shortened working hours are a maximum of two hours per day and staggered working hours Hour Program can be set within a set range Flex-time Program Reasons or age of the child are not specified Telecommuting Working at home or otherwise outside the office Program Reasons or age of the child are not specified Special leave for any reason related to child rearing (paid leave) Child support leave Five days per year for every children before entering junior high school. Ten days per year if there are more than two child Childcare Babysitting service to If entering nursing schools or a similar facility is difficult, corporate contract babysitters are support employees introduced and its fees are subsidized for a maximum of seven months until the child is able return to work to enter a nursery school, etc. The company pays for initial and annual membership fee for corporate contract baby sitters Babysitting services for to make the service more usable during child illness, sudden overtime or business trip and times of child illness or other emergencies. Can be used until the child reaches fourth grade elementary school emergency student. In-house babysitting for infants and drop off and pick up of young elementary school Subsidies to use for children and children in nursery schools, etc. babysitters Amount of the subsidy is 1,700 yen per day Infer tilit y treatment For specified ART treatment, a leave of up to one year can be taken support and monetary support for treatment of up to 300,000 yen is available Those that worked for three or more years and registered are candidates for reemployment Job Return Program Until the child being raised (not limited to the child that was the reason for resignation) enters elementary school (maximum of ten years) The maximum of three years can be exceeded if the total is within 93 days Nursing leave Benefits are of ¥50,000 per month Shortened working hours are a maximum of two hours per day and staggered working hours Shortened and can be set within a set range Staggered Working Shortened working hours are a maximum of two hours per day and staggered working hours Hour Program can be set within a set range Flex-time Program No reason is required or restriction on the period of time set Telecommuting Working at home or otherwise outside the office Program No reason is required or restriction on the period of time set Nursing Leave to accompany someone to the hospital, etc. (paid leave) Special leave Five days per year for one family member or ten days a year for more than two family members are given for the nursing care obligations Home helper Subsidize 70% of the fee for one person per day (maximum of ¥15,000) and maximum of 50 employment days per year. assistance Those that worked for three or more years and conducted the registration process are Job Return Program candidates for reemployment A maximum length of ten years is provided to resolve nursing care requirements Special leave and premium are provided for employees that have worked for 10, 15, 20, 25, Vacation Refresh leave system 30, 35, 40 and 45 years 236 Overview of policies to support nursing care 237 Change in the number of employees that took advantage of child or nursing care policies (employees) 2016 2017 2018 2019 2014 2015 SHD SHD SHD SHD SHD SBF + SHD SBF + SHD SBF + SHD SBF + SBF SBF SBF SBF Childcare leave 205 247 252 46 298 275 64 339 251 53 304 257 34 291 Shortened Male 80 22 102 22 34 56 107 26 133 101 10 111 and staggered working hour for child care Female 172 24 196 24 30 54 144 27 171 156 24 180 Newly taking 118 143 148 32 180 179 50 229 63 12 75 66 8 74 childcare leave Number of employees Male 122 33 155 93 24 117 92 22 114 returning after childcare Female 61 9 70 62 13 75 58 17 75 leave Number of employees Male 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 that resigned during childcare Female 2 1 3 0 0 0 0 0 0 leave Ratio of employees Male 100% 100% 100% 100.0% 100.0% 100.0% 100.0% 100.0% 100.0% returning after childcare Female 96.8% 90.0% 95.9% 100.0% 100.0% 100.0% 100.0% 100.0% 100.0% Child and leave nursing care Number of employees Male 80 22 102 118 34 152 108 27 135 remaining at end of the year after taking childcare leave Female 172 24 196 144 25 169 139 26 165 previous year Number of Male 100% 100% 100% 96.7% 100.0% 97.44% 100.0% 100.0% 100.0% Employees Returning from Child Female 98.8% 95.8% 98.5% 94.1% 83.33% 92.35% 96.5% 96.3% 96.5% Care Leave Shortened and staggered working 195 192 187 38 225 183 33 216 180 37 217 124 54 178 hour for child care Nursing leave 2 1 2 0 2 2 0 2 3 0 3 2 0 2 Shortened and staggered working 2 3 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 2 0 2 hour for nursing care Telecommuting 3,196 3,577 3,390 1,070 4,460 3,657 1,188 4,845 3,847 1,329 5,176 4,140 1,534 5,674 Program* Child support leave 663 464 474 65 539 500 83 583 524 75 599 548 102 650 Home helper 0 2 1 0 1 2 0 2 1 0 1 4 0 4 At home child care 37 16 24 2 26 27 2 29 29 5 34 36 8 44 service Vacation Refresh leave 791 933 525 177 702 603 198 801 630 194 824 633 253 886 238 ■Supporting Employees Return to Work after Child or Nursing Care Leave The Suntory Group mandates interviews with direct supervisors before employees take leave or after employees return to work as one part of its support of employees returning to work. A system has also been built to allow internal information to be confirmed at any time by browsing the intranet from a household computer while the employee is on leave. Moreover, measures have been put in place to reduce concerns of employees returning to work that includes sending out information with know-how they can use after returning to work as an email magazine each month for employees taking child care leave. ■Re-employing Employees Who Have Resigned Due to Child Care and Nursing Care The Suntory Group has introduced the Job Return Program that re-employs employees that have resigned due to pregnancy, child care, nursing care, or a spouse's appointment overseas who wish to return to the workplace. The terms are determined after a defined trial period based on the certifications and salary at the time the employee resigned. 56 employees have registered for the program between when the program was introduced in 2007 and 2018 with eight employees returning to the workplace up to the end of 2018. Period of Absence for the Job Return Program Reason for resignation Period of absence Pregnancy, child birth, or child care Until the child being raised reaches elementary school with a maximum of up to ten years Nursing Until the nursing care requirements are resolved with a maximum of up to ten years Until the spouse returns from their appointment overseas with a maximum of up to ten Overseas appointment of spouse years 239 To Create Harmony To Create Harmony To Create Harmony Corporate with Customers To Create Harmony and Partners with Nature with Society with Employee Governance To Create Harmony with Employees: Diversity Management Labor/Management Relations Labor and Management cooperate to create a comfortable working environment. Creating Employee-Friendly Workplaces The Suntory Group respects and advocates freedom of association and the rights to collective bargaining in accordance with the laws and regulations in each country. We also recognize the importance and support freedom of assocciaiton and right to collective bargaining even in countries and regions that do not recognize them by law, and promote the resolution of challenges through the cooperation of labor and management. We have various councils that meet regularly to enable labor and management to study and discuss key management challenges we face. These include the Business Conditions Conference, the Finance Reporting Council, and division and topic specific councils. These councils hear statements from the labor union about shop floor conditions and both parties debate Suntory Group's management policies. We operate and revise our programs involving human resources and labor based on thorough consultations rooted in mutual awareness of the issues. Through these relationships between labor and management we are enhancing subjectivity and transparency of company management while increasing effectiveness of various initiatives. Suntory Group's labor union implement unionship system*. * Unionship system: A system in which all employees are required to be a member * 57% of employees subject to collective bargaining. ■Promotion of Cooperation with Workers Union Through Conferences We are holding periodic conferences where we determine themes for vital issues common with Workers Union. We have held 25 conferences throughout the year of 2019. Management Status Conference Main Labor-management Conferences Name Frequency Description Management Status Conference about matters such as company management policies, Twice a year Conference management status, and business execution status Quarterly settlement Twice a year Sharing information about Group consolidated performance conferences Once a year Conference about issues related to departments such as R&D, Departmental conferences (each department) production, and sales. Work-style innovation Conference about status confirmation and improvements of issues Three times a year committee during working hours 240 ■Introduction of Recreation Plans in Cooperation with Workers We are operating recreation plans with the cooperation of workers for the purpose of cultivating unity as the Suntory Group. The soft volleyball competition that started in 2009 has also grown to have participation from Group Companies. At the 11th competition held in 2019, roughly 4,600 employees participated alongside their families. 241 To Create Harmony To Create Harmony To Create Harmony Corporate with Customers To Create Harmony and Partners with Nature with Society with Employee Governance To Create Harmony with Employee: Diversity Management Occupational Health and Safety We promote occupational health and safety based on the belief that a workplace where employees can work with peace of mind is connected to the vibrancy of the company. Commitment to Workplace Safety Safety is one of our criteria for evaluating worksite performance at our plants. Our Health and Safety Committee, which includes employee representatives, plays a central role in the promotion of activities that, based on the discussions with employees, are customized to match the characteristics and circumstances of each worksite. There were 14 occupational accidents in 2019. Lost time injury/illness frequency rate*1 was 0.00 (benchmark rate in soft drink and alcohol manufacturing: 1.08*3) while Lost time injury/illness severity rate*2 was 0.000(benchmark rate in soft drink and alcohol manufacturing: 0.01*3). We promptly share information and continually improve the level of our efforts by regularly offering venues for the labor union and the Senior General Manager in charge of occupational health and safety to exchange occupational health and safety information. We will continue working to increase employee awareness and to improve their safety during working hours and commuting with the goal of zero occupational health and safety accidents. *1 Frequency rate: (number of deaths and injuries) ÷ (total number of work hours) × 1,000,000 *2 Severity rate: (number of days employees cannot work) ÷ (total number of work hours) × 1,000 *3 Survey on Industrial Accidents by Ministry of Health, Labor and Welfare ■Number of workplace accidents (accidents) 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 2016 2017 2018 2019 Number of occupational accidents (including paid leave and 3 3 2 3 4 0 6 1 3 0 substitute leave) Number of occupational accidents not accompanied by lost work 14 10 8 12 13 8 18 12 21 14 time Number of accidents resulting 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 fatality Total 17 13 10 15 17 8 24 13 24 14 Lost time injury/illness frequency 0.31 0.30 0.20 0.17 0.34 0.00 0.47 0.08 0.23 0.00★ rate Lost time injur y/illness severity 0.002 0.005 0.009 0.002 0.004 0.000 0.003 0.000 0.001 0.000 rate * Figures through 2012 are only for Suntory Holdings Ltd. and Suntory Beverage & Food Ltd. The figures from 2014 onwards include data on workplace accidents involving full-time employees, special contract employees, and part-time employees for the following Suntory Group companies in Japan: Suntory Holdings Ltd., Suntory Beverage & Food Group companies (Suntory Beverage & Food Ltd., Suntory Foods Ltd., Suntory Beverage Solution Ltd., Suntory Products Ltd.), Suntory BWS Ltd., Suntory Spirits Ltd., Suntory Beer Ltd., Suntory Wine International Ltd., Suntory Liquors Ltd., Suntory Wellness Ltd., Suntory MONOZUKURI Expert Ltd., Suntory Business Systems Ltd., Suntory Communications Ltd., and Suntory Global Innovation Center Ltd. * From FY2016, Suntory has The numbers marked with ★ are certified by a third party on the Suntory Sustainability website. * Zero occupational accident in 2019. 242 ■Achieving Zero Workplace Accidents in Manufacturing We are working in ac tivities to reach zero workplace accident s a s our highest priorit y ba sed on the belief of prioritizing the health and safety of all people in accordance with the Suntor y Group Basic Policy on Safety in Production and Research formulated in Februar y 2010 at the production and research divisions of the Suntor y Group. Suntor y engages in risk assessment for occupational health and safety by suf ficiently reviewing business plans and operational procedures to prevent occupational accident s before they happen in existing and new businesses. We are deepening our activities as a unified Group toward zero workplace accidents while linking all of our partner companies by ceaselessly advancing low-key efforts that improve the safety awareness of each and ever y person on the ground a s well a s continue operational-oriented risk reduction ef for ts in the future. ■Building of a Crisis Management System Overseas The Suntory Group has formulated a crisis management manual to secure the safety of employees dispatched overseas and their families in preparation for state of emergency overseas. We have created a pocket manual for the employees dispatched overseas to carry on their person while establishing reporting routes and countermeasure systems. ■Occupational Health and Safety Education The Suntory Group strives to raise awareness and prevent occupational accidents before they happen by holding regular occupational health and safety education courses. A total of 242 people took part in these education courses in 2015, with a total of 302 people in 2016, a total of 610 in 2017, a total of 722 in 2018, a total of 731 in 2019. 243 To Create Harmony To Create Harmony To Create Harmony Corporate with Customers To Create Harmony and Partners with Nature with Society with Employee Governance To Create Harmony with Employee: Diversity Management Health management The Suntory Group believes health is not something simply related to hospitals but also satisfies health of both body and mind, energy in everyday work, and enthusiasm. We started health management from 2016 to promote an even greater level of health for our employees and their families based on this belief. We also were praised and recognized by the Ministry of Economy, Trade and Industry and the Nippon Kenko Kaigi for these initiatives for four consecutive years since 2017. Certified Health and Productivity Management Organization Recognition Program (Large Enterprise Category) White 500 consecutively. 2019 Results Targets Toward 2021 Employee consultation rate 100.0% 100% Health check-up Spouse (over 40) consultation rate 68.6% 75% rate Reexamination consultation rate 53.4% 100% Obesity rate (including those at risk) 23.0% 20% Lifestyle improvements Smoking rate 22.1% 15% Mental health care Stress check superior AB evaluation 82.6% 87% 244 A Variety of Programs to Promote Employee Health Considering the physical and mental health of employees is one of the most important duties of a company. We are working to put in place periodic self checks and a follow-up support system that enhances health check-ups and stress checks so that every single employee can engage in their work energetically. We also started efforts toward lifestyle diseases prevention (Suntory Health Challenge). ■Comprehensive Health Examinations Suntory Group provides health examinations that include detailed medical tests in excess of legal requirements. Employees aged 40 and older are required to take a day-long, full physical examination in addition to the regular annual check-up (the cost of items designated by the company is borne by the company). Cancer screenings are also a requirement based on age with 90% of employees undergoing examinations for gastric cancer, colon cancer, and lung cancer as well as 65% to 70% of employees being screened for breast and cervical cancer. Industrial doctor checks the result of every employee's health examinations and holds interviews and guidance for those need attention. In addition, we support employees to maintain and improve their health through building a system of health consultation such as nurse staff visiting offices to hold health consultation and counseling by clinical psychotherapist. ■Consults held by Occupational Safety and Health Staff We are aiming to build an atmosphere where everyone can easily ask for advice in addition to building a system for industrial health staff such as industrial doctors, mental health professionals, nurses and clinical psychologists. Nurses have been regularly visiting the offices they are in charge since 2014 to conduct health consultations once each year with employees who are at the relevant age. We will further efforts to connect to early diagnosis and treatment by understanding the mental state and life habits of our employees while raising internal awareness about our consulting system in the future. Various Health Measures Various policies Up to 60 days of leave can be accumulated from up to ten days of leave each year for Special leave that uses paid leave not taken for injuries or illnesses occurring outside of work, for infertility expired leave treatments, and for the care of family Illnesses, injuries, and Hospital room subsidies for Subsidizes 70% of the costs incurred for rooms outside of the health insurance disasters remaining balance coverage while hospitalized Support Program for the Subsidies for the Costs of Advanced Treatments Outside the Suntory Health Cost of Advanced Cancer Insurance Society Policy such as Heavy Ion Radiotherapy (Up to 5 Million Yen per Treatments Person per Year) Employees over 40 years of age may have require physical examinations (once a year) without any cost to the individual for items designated by the company as periodic health assessments Use of physical examinations People over 30 years of age (including dependents) may have physical examinations (up to once a year) and only pay 5,000 yen of a one-day examine Stress checks Held once a year and is always available Dental examinations Once per year Health telephone consultation system Supported by external expert staff Mental-health consultation and An external expert staff supports telephone consultations and interviews telephone consultation 245 Number of users for various health measures (employees) 2015 2016 2017 2018 2019 Special leave that 53 65 34 57 68 uses expired leave Illnesses, injuries, and disasters Hospital room subsidies for 20 36 38 32 65 remaining balance Physical examinations 3,280 3,333 3,286 3,648 3,721 (over 40 years of age) Physical examinations 866 1,014 1,141 1,242 1,184 (over 30 years of age) Physical examinations (family) 1,950 2,046 2,122 2,207 2,214 Dental examinations 3,753 3,632 3,773 3,803 3,737 Health telephone consultation 120 110 59 70 43 system Mental-health consultation and 114 64 38 50 87 telephone consultation Suntory Health Challenge 2019 Program Number of participants Program Description Number of users (approx.) System to assign points for efforts to better health such as daily Health Mileage walking and radio exercises as well as health check-ups that can then 8,000 be saved and exchanged for prizes Radio exercises Radio exercises are conducted every day at every office 8,000 Online guidance for those under the age of 4 0 who meet the Under 40 years old Specific specified health guidance standards set by the Ministry of Health, 400 health guidance standard Labor and Welfare Health seminars Time Nutrition -How to Eat Your Body Clock to Create the Best 450 (led by outside lecturers) Weight and Best Physical ConditionSmoking cessation clinic support and In-house smoking cessation Support in quitting smoking 20 support Mimamori-tai system Walking Event Held with Overseas Group Companies as a Health × Walking Event 8000 Environmental Management Initiative 246 Installation of a Health Care Room The Odaiba Of fice and Osaka Of fice have put in place health care (corporate masseuses) rooms that provide services where government-certified care givers provide care such as massages and finger pressure therapy. Approximately 2,900 employees have used this program throughout the year as one way to improve mental health and alleviate stress. A look at treatment ■Initiatives for Mental Health We have created two mental health management initiatives for the prevention and early detection of mental health problems: our self-care initiatives which aim to make employees aware of stress and take appropriate measures to counter it, and our line-care initiatives in which managers strive to improve the working environment and provide individual counseling. We are properly engaged in various health care efforts that include self care in group training, courses in employee care overseen by a line manager, introduction of complete stress checks and counseling through clinical psychologist. We have also put in place a return to work support system for employees on leave to smoothly return to work. Examples of mental health care initiatives 247 ■Coordinating with Work Style Innovation Largely revising the work style to enhance both professional and personal lifestyles is indispensable in the realization of a form able to satisfy the health of both body and mind, energy in everyday work, and enthusiasm for each and every employee. The Suntory Group promotes health management while firmly connecting that management to work style innovation. ■Support of the Wellness of even the Employees' Families The Suntory Group is supporting the lifestyle of employees and their families from a broad range of aspects. External consultation windows such as mental-health consultation and telephone consultation as well as the general SOS contact window are available to support a wide range of needs from health consultations to even legal consultations. We are receiving consults from our employees and their families. We have also established a system that plays a role in issues directly confronting the lifestyles of our employees in addition to resolving their fears with programs such as the subsidy program to assist in physical examinations of our employees and their families. 248 To Create Harmony To Create Harmony To Create Harmony Corporate with Customers To Create Harmony and Partners with Nature with Society with Employee Governance To Create Harmony with Employees: Diversity Management Group Global Human Resources Department The Suntory Group has been driving great change in human resource activities in recent years as the global expansion of its businesses accelerates. We are engaged in a wide variety of initiatives at a global level for the purpose of business growth and employee growth as a means to realize Growing for Good. Promoting Global Human Resource Activities Through Cooperation with Each Group Company The Suntory Group is advancing various activities while cooperating with each company to create synergy between Group companies across the globe under the motto of ONE SUNTORY. Each and every Suntorian full of individuality found around the globe demonstrates the“Yatte Minahare”spirit from people-to-people exchanges across countries and organizations as well as sharing know-how with one another. We will continue to evolve our global human resource activities so that we may be able to deliver much sensation and joy to ever corner of the world. ■Suntory People Way In recent years, we formulated the Suntory People Way as the belief and concept held by all of Suntory by reaffirming our stance on human resources as the driving force of growth at the Suntory Group in the drastically changing environment surrounding us from the acceleration in expanding businesses globally to the drastic increase in the number of Group employees following the expansion. The Suntory People Way encompasses three elements which cherish the originality and uniqueness of Suntory -FAMILY, YATTE MINAHARE, and ENGAGEMENT. This belief and concept are held by all of the people who come together in the Suntory Group and are rooted in all of the activities conducted by our human resources. FAMILY The people Suntory brings together are our family. They are essential to the organization. Suntorians are the force driving our growth to be an even better corporate group. Each and every person is a Suntorian. We provide growth opportunities from a long-term perspective to support the realization of lifestyles filled with health and happiness. YATTE MINAHARE! We strive to set enthusiastic goals and tackle bold challenges while keeping our founder's spirit close to our hearts. ENGAGEMENT We are strongly united by our Founding Spirits and vision Growing for Good . We deliver sensation and joy to the world recognizing and blending the individuality of each person as diverse value. 249 ■Group Talent Review Suntory conducts a Group talent review once a year to identify, develop and utilize human resources who are able to actively participate in the Group worldwide. The Group talent review held in 2019 was conducted by function such as finance and administration to gather top management at major Group companies and identify the key talent and positions throughout the Group, including formulating plans for successors in those vital positions, and assessing the person-to-person exchanges across countries and businesses. We will strive to expand the content of these reviews in the future. We will promote talent management throughout the Group and the world through these Group talent reviews and other measures in the future. ■Group-wide Human Resource Platforms and Systems The Suntory Group works to adopt human resource platforms and systems shared throughout the Group to effectively link and leverage human resource information that exists at each Group company. We share information related to a system (Group talent book) that allows Suntory Group employees worldwide to view information that incorporates an enthusiasm unique to Suntor y as well as key talent and positions in addition to utilizing talent management throughout the Group. We have also developed group-wide talent assessment model to ensure consistent talent review across the group. We have created a foundation that allows more opportunities for talent to be active in the Suntory Group regardless of country or business. They are used in group-based talent management. ■Group Engagement Survey We aim to ma ximize the organizational capabilities of the Group and are working to introduce Group -wide engagement sur veys. The Suntor y Group has clarified an increase in its organizational capabilities as a result of adopting common Group questions to measure the engagement level throughout the Suntor y Group as well as the penetration of the Group corporate philosophy in 2017 as a way to cultivate unity as a Group and visualize that unity. ■Health management We launched a cross-Group project team for the health of our employees as human resources of the Group that advances activities that create unity throughout the Group. Continuing from 2017, we conducted the One Suntory Walk (activity to promote employees to walk) to improve awareness about health and encourage better health in Group employees. We also incorporated systems to determine donations to environmental organizations worldwide based on the number of steps as well as integrated elements of social media networks to increase the motivation of employees to participate to make the event a great success. Health is not simply preventing illness but also the ability to work enthusiastically each day filled with motivation and happiness. We will also promote health management throughout the Group now and into the future based on the belief that physical and mental health of our employees and their families is the source to perseverance and innovation. ■Diversity We created the Group Diversity Vision with the launch of a cross-Group project team in 2016 under our view of diversity promotion as a management challenge. Furthermore, we work to promote the active participation of women at Suntory Holdings as an effort to drive the progress of diversity at each company. Since 2018, we conduct lectures for women managers by inviting women executives from Beam Suntory to Japan from America. ・Build networks of women leaders in the Suntory Group ・Learn recent challenges and initiatives of gender diversity directly in business ・Consider development of future female leaders in the Suntory Group There was active debate about gender diversity through sessions with top management, lectures with guest speakers and group discussions. A variety of activities in the future will accelerate the promotion of diversity globally throughout the Group. 250 ■Global Employment As the Group expands worldwide, Suntory needs to find human resources who can act as a bridge to each Group company with both a focus on Japan as well as the international community. Suntory Holdings and Beam Suntory have been conducting joint activities to hire new graduates in North America since 2016. These activities help enhance the recruitment efforts of both companies, such as sharing mutual know-how and candidates. In the future, the Group will unite to advance its employment activities toward establishing an employment brand as a Group. ■People-to-People Exchange (short-term assignments) We have actively promoted people-to-people exchange with the aim of training human resources who can be active transcending businesses and countries and use each other's knowledge. Starting this activity in 2017, we accepted 13 overseas group company employees from a very wide range of fields, such as the Corporate Strategy Planning Department, Human Resources Department, R&D Department, and Design Department to participate in short-term assignments. In the future, we will more actively promote the vitalization of human resource exchange by viewing it as a key activity for the development of human resources within the group. 251 To Create Harmony To Create Harmony To Create Harmony To Create Harmony with Customers Corporate and Partners with Nature with Society with Employee Governance Sustainability Initiatives Corporate Governance The Suntory Group aims to be a company that delivers value and is trusted and chosen by people and society. To this end, the Suntory Group enhances its efforts to become a company that is Growing for Good using as its basis not only the compliance with laws, but the establishment of transparent management and organizational structure. Furthermore, recognizing the importance of promoting management that respects human rights of our stakeholders, we set out human rights activity policy and engage in various related activities. 252 To Create Harmony To Create Harmony To Create Harmony To Create Harmony with Customers Corporate and Partners with Nature with Society with Employee Governance Corporate Governance Corporate Governance We are striving to enhance our corporate governance to ensure we continue to be a company that is trusted by our customers and society. Suntory Group Corporate Governance Suntory Group is introducing a pure holding-company system that separates group management and business operations. We maintain our good relationships with all stakeholders including local communities, customers, and business partners, while striving to enhance our corporate governance, so that we may fulfill our social responsibilities as a company. ■Boards Responsible for Group Management Suntory Holdings' Board of Directors is made up of 9 directors, including 1 outside director (as of April 2020). The Board of Directors engages in concrete discussions, debates and makes decisions regarding management issues of the entire Group and also performs an auditing function of the business administration practiced by all Group companies. The adoption of the Executive Officer system helped to separate the business administration decision-making process from the execution of business operations and to make decision-making process more agile. ■The Management Auditing System Suntory Holdings' Board of Auditors is made up of four auditors, including two external auditors (as of April 2020). It audits the execution status of business operations as well as the status of the internal control system. Board of Auditors Office was established to aid the audits performed by the Board of Auditors. In addition, Suntory Group has established a Group Auditing Department that acts as an internal auditing division that audits and inspects the execution status of business operations of all Group companies. The external auditors also audit accounts, verifying the appropriateness and legality of accounts and the internal accounting systems from an objective perspective. Corporate governance structure 253 Strengthening Internal Control Systems We are aiming to build a more effective governance structure by strengthening efforts such as compliance, information management, and risk management based on the Basic Policy on Internal Control Systems enacted by Suntory Holdings' Board of Directors. Suntory Beverage & Food Ltd.'s Corporate Governance Suntory Beverage & Food Ltd., which is listed on the first section of the Tokyo Stock Exchange, is an audit and supervisory committee company. This structure was established for the purpose of improving the effectiveness of auditing and supervision through audits by directors who are committee members approved by the Board of Directors in addition to introducing audits that utilize an internal auditing division to facilitate more highly-transparent governance. Three of the nine directors (including directors who are members of the auditing committee) that make up the Board of Directors are external directors (as of April 2020). Furthermore, Suntory Beverage & Food has also stipulated the ability to appoint directors for some or all decisions necessary for executing operations with approval at the Board of Directors Meeting. This measure realizes management strategy and achieves management indicators set as goals by conducting more comprehensive and practical deliberation such as debate about management strategy, mediumand long-term plans, and management challenges. It is also for the purpose of allowing for faster decision-making while enhancing supervision functions at the Board of Directors Meeting through decision-making based on the management committee and internal rules for executing each operation. We are also release compliance status of the corporate governance code on our homepage. 254 To Create Harmony To Create Harmony To Create Harmony To Create Harmony with Customers Corporate and Partners with Nature with Society with Employee Governance Corporate Governance Basic Concepts and Operations for the Internal Control System The matters determined at the Board of Directors to put in place systems to ensure proper corporate governance in operations are outlined below. (Revised in 2015) Suntory Holdings Limited (the Company ) hereby establishes the Basic Policy on an Internal Control System outlined below to provide ongoing growth and maximize the corporate value of the entire Suntory Group for the purpose of becoming a global multi-faceted food and beverage company. Ⅰ. System for Ensuring That the Execution of Duties by Directors, Executive Officers and Employees of the Company, as well as by Directors, Executive Officers, Others with Equivalent Duties and Employees of the Company's Subsidiaries Conform with Laws and Regulations and the Articles of Incorporation 1.The Suntory Group shall adhere to the basic principles outlined below based on the Suntory Group's Code of Business Ethics. The Company shall respect the rules of civil society and place the utmost importance on an organization and corporate culture that prioritizes compliance with the aim of fulfilling the corporate philosophy of the Suntory Group on the basis of the Group's awareness of itself as a global corporate citizen. Each and every one of the Directors, Executive Officers, and employees shall carry out business activities by making decisions for the organization based on social ethics as a corporate citizen. 2.A ll Directors, Executive Officers, and employees of the Suntory Group shall have a working mindset to comply with laws and regulations as well as with social ethics in order to put the corporate philosophy mentioned above into action. The Directors and Executive Officers shall take the initiative in complying with laws and regulations, the Articles of Incorporation, and business ethics, and actively make efforts to maintain and improve compliance management. Principle 3:T he Global Risk Management Committee as well as each risk management committee put in place throughout the Suntory Group (the Global Risk Management Committee and each risk management commit tee at each Group company shall hereinaf ter be referred to a s the Risk Mana gement Committee ) shall promote a compliance system and deliberate priority issues. In addition, each Group company shall put in place a department in charge of compliance to conduct periodic education and training activities as well as establish and promote compliance systems throughout the Suntory Group with the Risk Management Committee at the core to ensure the comprehensiveness of activities. Principle 4:T he Risk Management Committee as well as the departments in charge of compliance shall appropriately report content of deliberations and activities to the Board of Directors and the Board of Auditors. Principle 5:T he Directors, Executive Officers and Auditors of the Suntory Group shall report any compliance issues that are discovered immediately to the Risk Management Committee. In addition, the Company shall put in place compliance hotlines inside and outside of the Company to allow employees of the Suntory Group to directly report on compliance related issues. The Risk Management Committee shall investigate the contents of any report it receives after working to obtain any relevant information, discuss the issue with relevant departments as necessary, take corrective actions, establish measure to prevent any recurrence and put in place systems to implement any measures formulated throughout the entire Group. 255 Principle 6:Directors and Executive Officers shall be dispatched to subsidiaries as necessary to appropriately execute business, make decisions and perform supervision. In addition, the relevant departments of the Company shall provide advice, guidance and support to the subsidiaries. Principle 7:T he Audit & Supervisory Board or equivalent persons ( Auditors ) shall be deployed to subsidiaries as necessary to perform audits. In addition, the Auditing Department shall carry out internal audits of subsidiaries. Principle 8:T he Auditing Department shall carry out internal audits pertaining to the status of compliance and the appropriateness for operations of employees of the Suntory Group, and report the results of the audit to the Representative Director and President. Principle 9:Internal control systems shall be established and maintained to ensure the appropriateness of financial reporting. 10.Directors and Executive Officers of the Suntory Group shall establish and promote a system to prevent any relations with antisocial forces and clearly reject any improper demands that are made. Ⅱ．System for the Preservation and Management of Information Concerning the Execution of Duties of Company Directors 1.O fficers in charge of general affairs shall store and manage vital internal documents as well as revise and improve document management rules and other regulations as necessary. Principle 2:Directors and Executive Officers shall store and manage minutes of the shareholders meetings, minutes of Board of Directors meetings and documents pertinent to important decision-making (including electronic or magnetic records, the same applies hereinafter) as well as other important information related to the execution of duties by Directors and Executive Officers in accordance with laws and regulations as well as internal rules. 3.T he documents and other materials mentioned above shall be kept in a condition such that allows for Directors to view them as necessary. 4.T he Risk Management Committee shall establish and promote an informational security governance system that does not only protect and preserve information, including personal information, but also increases corporate value by use of information. Ⅲ．Regulations and Other Systems for Managing Risk of Losses of the Company and Its Subsidiaries 1.T he strategic decision making related to the management of the Suntory Group shall be determined by the Board of Directors. 2.E ach Executive Director and Executive Officer shall hold responsibility for addressing risks inherent in business execution. Moreover, material risks shall be analyzed and evaluated, and improvement plans shall be discussed and determined by the Board of Directors. Principle 3:T he Risk Management Committee as well as the Quality Assurance Committee shall comprehensively and collectively manage material risks related to Group management such as risks incidental to the execution of business and quality risks throughout the entire Group. In addition, regulations and guidelines pertaining to management of such risks shall be established, and training activities thereof shall be implemented as necessary. Principle 4:T he Board of Directors shall promptly select Directors or Executive Officers who will hold responsibility for addressing newly emerging material risks related to Group management to determine a course of action to address such risks. 256 Ⅳ．System for Ensuring that Directors of the Company and Directors and Executive Officers of the Company's Subsidiaries as well as Others with Equivalent Duties Execute Their Duties Efficiently 1.T he Company shall determine Company-wide goals shared by the Directors, Executive Officers, and employees of the Suntory Group, and Directors and Executive Officers in charge shall specify efficient methods for achieving such goals, such as specific targets and appropriate allocation of authority aimed at achieving the Company-wide goals. Principle 2:Directors and Executive Officers in charge shall confirm progress made in achieving goals and report the specific measures to achieve the goals to the Board of Directors and the Management Committee. 3.E ach Director and Executive Officer shall be in charge of appropriately executing business operations and shall strive to make decisions efficiently under the Responsibility and Authority Rules. Ⅴ．System for Reporting to the Company Matters Related to the Execution of Duties by Directors and Executive Officers of the Company's Subsidiaries 1.T he status of the business execution of Directors and Executive Officers at subsidiaries shall be regularly reported to the Board of Directors and the Management Committee. Principle 2:Directors and Executive Officers in charge of subsidiaries shall request reports on the status of business execution from the Directors and Executive Officers of the subsidiaries as necessary. 3.Certain matters concerning management of subsidiaries must be consulted with and reported to the relevant departments, or otherwise must receive approval from the Board of Directors of the Company under the Responsibility and Authority Rules. 4.T he Auditing Department shall report the internal audits results of subsidiaries to the Representative Director and President as necessary. Ⅵ．Other Systems for Ensuring the Appropriateness of Business of the Group Consisting of the Company, Its Parent Company and Its Subsidiaries Dealings bet ween Group companies, including the parent company and public subsidiaries, shall ensure appropriateness in matters such as conducting business and deciding on business matters to provide objective and rational content. Ⅶ．Matters Regarding Auditors of the Company and Employees Who Are Requested to Assist in their Duties, Matters Regarding the Independence of Such Employees from Directors and Executive Officers, and Matters Related to Ensuring the Effectiveness of Instructions Given to Such Employees The Company shall place employees to assist the duties of auditors after deliberation if necessary for the Audit & Supervisory Board. In addition, the Company shall respect and execute directions of the Board of Auditors such as the transfer and evaluation of such employees, and ensure the independence of such employees from Directors and Executive Officers. Moreover, such employees shall follow the instructions and directives from the Audit & Supervisory Board when assisting in the duties of auditors. 257 Ⅷ．Systems for Directors, Executive Directors and Employees of the Company and Directors, Executive Directors, Audit & Supervisory Board Members, Others with Equivalent Duties and Employees of the Company's Subsidiaries or Other Persons Who Receive Reports from Such Persons to the Company's Audit and Supervisory Committee and Other Systems Related to Reporting to the Audit and Supervisory Committee 1.Audit & Supervisory Board Members shall attend Board of Directors meetings, and the Representative Director and President as well as the Directors and Executive Officers in charge shall provide reports of business execution that they are in charge as necessary. 2.Directors, Executive Officers and Employees of the Suntory Group shall promptly and clearly respond to inquiries about operations and assets when requested by auditors to report on businesses. 3.T he Auditing Department of the Suntory Group shall regularly hold liaison conferences between Directors and the Board of Auditors of the Company to report the current status of matters such as internal audits. 4.T he departments in charge of internal reporting systems shall report the status of internal reports to Auditors and the Board of Auditors of the Company as necessary. Ⅸ．System for Ensuring the Person Who Has Reported to the Company's Audit & Supervisory Board Are Not Treated Adversely Based on the Fact Such a Report has Been Made by the Person The Directors, Executive Officers and employees of the Suntory Group shall prohibit any adverse treatment based on a report to the Audit & Supervisory Board through a department in charge of compliance or another reporting system. Ⅹ．Systems for Ensuring Advance Payment or Reimbursement of Expenses Arising in Conjunction with the Execution of Duties by Audit & Supervisory Board Members of the Company and Other Policies for Processing Expenses and Obligations Arising with Respect to Execution of Such Duties, and Other Systems for Ensuring That the Audit & Supervisory Board Effectively Performs Audits 1.If the Audit & Supervisory Board, in conjunction with the execution of its duties, asks the Company for advance payment, etc. of expenses under Article 388 of the Companies Act, the Company shall promptly process such expenses or obligations, unless they are not necessary for the Audit & Supervisory Board Members to execute their duties. 2.T he Audit & Super visor y Board shall strive to communicate and exchange information with the Audit & Supervisory Board of Company subsidiaries or the Auditing Department. 3.T he Board of Auditors shall put in place opportunities to exchange opinions with the Representative Director and President as well as accounting auditors. 258 Overview of the Operational Status of Internal Control Systems Given the Company aim of being a global food and alcoholic beverage company, we are well-aware of the importance to that end of maintaining and operating internal control system encompassing Group-wide risk management and compliance, in order to further ensure ongoing growth and maximize the corporate value of the entire Suntory Group. The following is a summary regarding the operational status of the Company's internal control system for the fiscal year under review. 1) Operational status of the risk management system ・ The Global Risk Management Committee and the various risk management committees within the Suntory Group have been holding meetings on a regular basis, and have accordingly been identifying risks facing the Suntory Group, formulating measures for addressing such risks, and checking on progress made with respect to taking action in that regard. ・Details regarding activities carried out by the Global Risk Management Committee have been reported to the Board of Directors. ・ With respect to quality risks, the Quality Control Committee has been holding meetings on a regular basis, and has accordingly been identifying issues involving matters of quality control pertaining to the Suntory Group, formulating measures for addressing such concerns, and checking on progress made with respect to taking action in that regard. ・To ensure information security, we have been implementing information management education and awareness activities, and have otherwise been taking steps geared toward discouraging unsuitable means of information management and preventing leakages of confidential information. 2) Status of initiatives related to compliance ・ We have established the Suntory Group's internal and external compliance hotlines, including our Group companies overseas, and make the hotlines' availability known to our employees by means that include providing details via our intranet and on posters. When it comes to reports and consultations regarding incidents, the relevant departments have been taking responsibility to investigate the facts at hand, and then accordingly taking corrective measures and implementing measures to prevent recurrence, as necessary. Moreover, our Rules on the Suntory Group's Whistleblowing System prohibit adverse treatment of whistleblowers for having reported incidents or for otherwise having sought consultation in that regard, and we are implementing these rules. Suntory Holdings has been awarded certification to recognize its whistleblowing system (system for self-declaration of conformance), which was introduced by the Consumer Affairs Agency. ・ Our Compliance Department has been playing a central role in efforts geared toward further heightening awareness of compliance practices, through initiatives that include carrying out surveys of employees and others to gauge their awareness of matters such as compliance issues and the corporate culture, and then providing feedback on survey results. In addition, as part of activities to promote awareness of anti-bribery efforts, all employees of group companies in Japan undertake e-learning, while seminars, etc. are held at group companies overseas. 3) Status of Initiatives to Improve the Efficiency of Business Execution ・ The Board of Directors has been holding meetings on a regular basis where they engaged in tasks that included formulating the Mid-Term Plan, drafting budgets, and making managerial decisions involving mergers and acquisitions, capital investment and other such matters. ・At their meetings, the Board of Directors was provided with reports on the Suntory Group's business performance, and accordingly verified and discussed matters such as progress made in achieving the Suntory Group's business objectives, its management challenges, along with measures in that regard. 259 4) Status of audits by the Audit & Supervisory Board Members ・ Audit & Supervisory Board Members have been attending important meetings of the Board of Directors, Risk Management Committee and other such bodies, through which they have been able to obtain reports on business execution provided by Directors, Executive Officers and others. ・The internal audit divisions have been regularly providing reports to Audit & Supervisory Board Members regarding the current status of internal audits and other such matters. ・ Audit & Supervisory Board Members have been communicating and exchanging information with Audit & Supervisory Board Members of subsidiaries of the Company, or internal audit divisions of the Company. ・ Audit & Supervisor y Board Members has been providing opportunities for the exchange of opinions with the Representative Director and President, Outside Directors and the Accounting Auditor. 5) Operational status of internal audits The internal audit divisions have been conducting internal audits of the Company's respective divisions as well as its subsidiaries in Japan and overseas on the basis of audit plans. In so doing, the internal audit divisions have been providing directives or otherwise making recommendations geared toward enabling those entities to make improvements when necessary, and have also been reporting results of the internal audits, as needed, to the Representative Director and President. 260 To Create Harmony To Create Harmony To Create Harmony To Create Harmony with Customers Corporate and Partners with Nature with Society with Employee Governance Corporate Governance Compliance We strive to create an organization and a corporate culture that place the highest priority on compliance to fulfill our responsibilities and meet the expectations of our customers and society. Compliance Promotion System ■Suntory Group's Code of Business Ethics: values shared by all employees for the realization of the corporate philosophy We are building a compliance promotion system to realize our corporate philosophy from a cross-Group view based on the Suntory Group's Code of Business Ethics established in 2003 that enables all employees to take action according to common rules. We also revised the content by referring to the ISO26000 international standard for social responsibility in 2012 and, adapted the content in 2017 for all Group employees around the world to better understand it. ■Promotion System Rooted in the Frontlines To promote compliance from a cross-Group perspective, the Compliance Department was established under the Risk Management Headquarters to specifically promote compliance. The Compliance Department must remain aware of all measures formulated and implemented at each workplace and about how those measures conform to policy. In addition to offering advice on specific issues, the Compliance Department set up the Compliance Hotline, and is charged by the Group Risk Management Committee to faithfully investigate and rectify any compliance violations found. We have revised some of the rules for the internal reporting system to operate more effectively under this system following revisions to the Guidelines for Business Operators Regarding the Establishment, Maintenance and Operation of Internal Reporting Systems Based on the Whistleblower Protection Act. As a result of such efforts, the Suntory Group Compliance Hotline (in Japan) was registered for the first time in the Japanese liquor industry in the Internal Reporting System Certification established by the Consumer Affairs Agency in January 2020. In addition, there are specific personnel responsible for promoting compliance issues at each Group company, both within Japan and abroad. They take an active role in promoting compliance, formulating policy customized for the circumstances in their own company, and informing colleagues about that policy. Compliance Promotion Structure 261 ■Enhancing the Hotline for Early Discovery and Resolution of Problems The basic rule in Suntory is that when an employee discovers actions that breach the Suntory Group's Code of Business Ethics, he or she must first report it to the supervisors and seek their advice. However, we have installed a Compliance Hotline both at our Compliance Office and at an external law firm as a common contact point for all of the Group companies in Japan in order to quickly discover and resolve problems when reporting or consulting with a supervisor is not appropriate. In addition, we provide an independent internal contact point at 11 Group companies and conduct annual training to improve the response of those in charge of this independent contact point in the Compliance Department. We installed a worldwide common contact point for reports encompassing all Group companies in Japan and even overseas as part of our global risk management system Compliance Hotline awareness poster in April 2016. In 2019, a total of 224 repor ts were received through these contact points at each Group company in Japan and overseas (99 reports were received by Suntory Beverage & Food Group). Roughly 60% of the reports received in Japan were about labor, personnel and management issues. We work to resolve the raised concerns and prevent them from reoccurring by implementing corrective measures and recommendations based on the investigation results, while making sure that the confidentiality of involved persons is protected by the Compliance Department and relevant departments in charge at each Group company. ■Protecting People Who Report Issues Simultaneously with establishing the hotline, the Suntory Group formulated the rules that prohibit disadvantageous treatment of employees who report issues. Furthermore, we have established an internal reporting system to thoroughly protect people who report an issue such as restricting unfair handling for not only the people who report an issue but also for people cooperating in investigations. We follow up with the person who reports an issue after the issue has been resolved. Compliance Hotline Response Flow 262 Activities to ensure compliance ■Communicating the Code of Business Ethics throughout the Group To facilitate the understanding of the Suntory Group Philosophy and Code of Business Ethics and put them in practice, we distribute a pamphlet to all Suntory Group officers and employees. This pamphlet translated into 11 relevant languages. At the start of each year, employees of the Group companies in Japan refreshes their understanding of the Code, and then signs a compliance statement at the end of the pamphlet. At the same time, workplace discussions regarding various compliance related cases that occur in the society, subjects that are recognized as issues in the Group and individual companies, and other topics are held to remind the fundamentals of compliance and promote ethical behavior. In employee awareness surveys conducted for Suntory Group employees in Japan, we were able to verify our businesses and offices run in accordance with Suntory Group's Code of Business Ethics as well as confirm the status of compliance practices. Suntory strives to discover any potential compliance breaches by reporting the results of these surveys to management while regularly ensuring the effectiveness of Suntory Group's Code of Business Ethics and taking advantage of these results in efforts that include education for employees and the formulation of activity plans. ■Activities to Raise Compliance Awareness through Communication We put out periodic information on the Compliance Net internal intranet to promote and practice true compliance. We distribute information on the Compliance Net that includes activities and themes linked to activities which are being undertaken as well as information to understand the true nature of compliance with examples found throughout the world. We raise the awareness of every employee through the activities of compliance promotion managers in each company. In addition, we publish information that promotes the basic knowledge of compliance, harassment checks, and a collection of materials for self-study in order to make learning accessible at any time on the Compliance Net. Furthermore, we have feld the seminor about theme of Unconscious Bias aimed at creating opportunities for managers to gain hints for fostering good communication that does not cause harassment while accepting diverse values and creating a culture of harassment in 2019. Compliance seminar ■Supporting Promotion Activities at Group Companies Each Group company is engaged in activities around their promotion managers. The Compliance Department provides suggestions and tools tailored to the challenges of each company, implements group training and offers other measures of support. In addition, we have introduced research to more deeply recognize our role as the driving force of compliance management for directors and managers who are newly appointed at Group companies in Japan. Insider Trading Prevention Systems: Implementation and Communication The Legal Department of the Risk Management Headquarters of Suntory Holdings Ltd. and the management headquarters of Suntory Beverage & Food Ltd. are working to comprehensively prevent insider trading by introducing e-Learning based on the content provided by the Tokyo Stock Exchange, as Suntory Beverage & Food Ltd. and Dynac Corp. are listed on the Tokyo Stock Exchange. Awareness materials 263 Implementing the Suntory Group's Code of Business Ethics in Business Activities We have clarified our emphasis on compliance in the Code of Business Ethics. Each department has set and is operating policies and voluntary standards for challenges related to various compliance in their business activities based on the concepts of the Code of Business Ethics. ■Ensuring Fair Business Practices The Suntory Group conducts business fairly, holding integrity as a prerequisite, and abides by all laws and regulations, including the Antimonopoly Act. We have revised and are running operations under policies in-line with legal revisions and environmental changes since the formulation of the Guideline for Compliance of the Antimonopoly Act in 1992. Further compliance is being ensured through the posting of our Key Points for the Promotion Campaigns under the Act Against Unjustifiable Premiums and Misleading Representations and our Compliance Manual for the Act against Delay in Payment of Subcontract Proceeds, Etc. to Subcontractors, to Subcontractors to the Intranet. We spread the word about the Antimonopoly Act and related legislation through the implementation of regular seminars in each division and Group company, and ensure fairness in our daily transactions with business partners and customers. We actively engage with various departments to ensure that compliance policies and activities are implemented in all stages starting from product development, sales and marketing planning. ■Establishing Committees to Promote Fair Business for Alcoholic Beverages A Fair Trade Promotion Committee was established to promote fair business practices at Suntory Liquors Ltd., the Suntory Group company responsible for the sale of alcoholic beverages. This was done in keeping with the Fair Practice Guidelines for the Liquor Business* and to maintain compliance with laws and regulations specific to alcoholic beverages as well as internal proprietary standards. ＊ The Fair Practice Guidelines for the Liquor Business are administrative guidelines established by the National Tax Agency in 2006. These guidelines prevent worsening of management of liquor business operators and the reduction of liquor taxes due to dumping caused by excessive competition. We set fair partnership conditions and make rebates more transparent to stabilize management of liquor business operators. This is also coordinated by Fair Business Committee responsible for overseeing the Antimonopoly Act. ■Transparency of Business Dealings and Prevention of Bribery The Suntory Group's Code of Conduct prohibits the provision of excessive business entertainment and gift-giving to any counterpart regardless of whether it is a corporate entity, individual, political or governmental entity, or any other related organization or company, and establishes that relationships with all parties should comply with laws and be fair and transparent. We are in the process of creating the Suntory Group Common Action Guidelines that will indicate policy for practical actions and decisions that must be taken in the course of normal business relationships and situations that might arise on a daily basis. These guidelines are posted on the intranet so that all executives and employees at each Group company in Japan can refer to them. 264 ■Global Compliance Initiatives We work to build a global compliance promotion system and integrate global standards due to the global expansion of the Suntory Group. In 2015, we formulated the guidelines on business entertainment and giftgiving that are aligned with global standards, and we provide seminars and e-Learning courses on the prevention of bribery and all types of corruption comprehensively to raise the awareness of employees on corruption issues as our response to global enhancement of anti-corruption regulations, such as the Foreign Corrupt Practices Act (FCPA). We have formulated a global Anti-Bribery Policy in 2016, which includes new provisions on donations and political contributions in addition to entertainment and bribery. In 2019, we conducted e-learning for all employees in Japan to reconfirm the guidelines, and obtained a pledge to comply with the guidelines. And regarding overseas, we prepared and trained countermeasures such Compliance seminar in China as anti-bribery and cyber security to foster a unique local compliance mindset, especially for managers in Shanghai, China, which have many state-owned enterprises, and bribery to the private sector can be subject to punishment. Forthermore from April 2016, we have established global hotline contact points to handle reports on bribery and all types of corruption comprehensively, as well as human rights violations and other compliance breaches. These contact points are available at all overseas Group companies as part of our global compliance system. There were no reports through the global hotline in 2019. Moreover, there were no reports on child or forced labor. Employee Awareness Survey to Understand the Awareness Towards Compliance and the Organizational Culture To understand the status of compliance and the organizational culture as well as to determine if there are any individual issues, we conduct awareness surveys for all Group employees in Japan. We investigate initiatives to promote awareness of compliance through the entire Group by understanding the challenges in each company and each department from these results. We share the discovered challenges with directors and managers at each company, and expect that related departments in these companies will take voluntary actions to resolve these challenges. Overseas Group companies contribute to compliance management by conducting their own independent surveys. 265 To Create Harmony To Create Harmony To Create Harmony To Create Harmony with Customers Corporate and Partners with Nature with Society with Employee Governance Compliance The Suntory Group's Code of Business Ethics Introduction The Suntory Group Code of Business Ethics is our foundation for building trust and defines the basic stance that we must all value. The implementation of the Suntory Group Code of Business Ethics is based on the concept of compliance . At Suntory Group compliance means Comply with Another's Wish , in other words, not only do we obey the law, but also demonstrate even higher ethical standards as we strive for best practices that meet or even exceed the expectations of our consumers, customers, suppliers, business partners, communities, global society, natural environment, employees, and other stakeholders. Even in an era of constant change, we, as members of the Suntory Group in pursuit of Growing for Good, earnestly engage with our various stakeholders, accept the diversity of people's values, and conduct business with the utmost fairness and integrity. We believe these behaviors enable the Suntory Group to remain genuinely trusted, chosen and valued by people and society. 1．Focusing on customers and consumers We make our best efforts to ensure integrity and transparency in all interactions with customers and consumers, and we provide safe, reliable and high-quality products and services, aiming to contribute to their happiness. 1.1 Products and services We make sincere efforts to deliver value that meets or even exceeds expectations of customers and consumers in all areas of our corporate activities including research and development, procurement, production, and sales. 1.2 Information and responsible marketing We strive to provide accurate and timely information, including with respect to the reliability and safety features of our products, that helps our customers and consumers make informed decisions. We ensure that our product labels, advertisements, and commercial messages are clear, accurate and not misleading. Furthermore, as a corporate group that engages in a wide variety of businesses, we are committed to the responsible marketing of all our products and services. 1.3 Interactive communication We strive to increase the satisfaction and trust of our customers and consumers by creating ample opportunities for interactive communication, and by reflecting their diverse views in our corporate activities. 266 2．Conducting business with integrity and fairness We conduct all business activities in a fair and transparent manner, in accordance with the law and the highest ethical standards.. 2.1 Compliance with the law, respect for standards and culture We abide by applicable laws and regulations, respect international standards, and ensure that our corporate activities are fair, transparent, and show respect for the cultures, customs, traditions, and religions in all countries where we conduct business. 2.2 Fair competition We prohibit the pursuit of profit by unfair or illegal means, in relations with business partners and competitors or otherwise, and commit to conducting business activities based on free and fair competition. 2.3 Corruption We do not tolerate any form of bribery, money laundering, embezzlement or other illicit or corrupt practices in our own operations or with any person or organization. We maintain transparent and arms-length relationships with our business partners, government officials, and all other parties. In the areas of gifts, entertainment, charitable donations, and political contributions we strictly adhere to all applicable laws, regulations, standards and internal rules regarding prevention of bribery and corruption, as well as sound business practices. 2.4 Conflicts of interest A potential conflict of interest arises in any situation where personal interests of an employee, an employee's relative or any other third party may conflict or interfere with the interests of the Suntory Group. We must disclose to the company any potential conflict of interest as soon as possible so that it can be appropriately considered and avoided. Furthermore, we must ensure that all decisions related to the selection of business partners, recruitment and other matters are transparent and based on rational and fair judgment. 2.5 Organized crime groups and trade controls We do not have any relationships with organizations involved in illegal activities, and firmly stand against such organizations. Furthermore, we comply with applicable laws and regulations that control export and import, as well as trade restrictions that prohibit or limit trading with certain countries and organizations. 2.6 Financial and business records We are committed to maintaining and disclosing financial and business records that accurately and properly reflect the true state of the business, in accordance with applicable laws and regulations as well as internal rules. We also ensure that all tax obligations are properly satisfied on the basis of such records. 3．Contributing to society As a good corporate citizen, the Suntory Group strives to make positive contribution to society. 3.1 Local community contribution We strive to engage with communities where we conduct business, and contribute to the solution of local problems, as well as the achievement of prosperous lifestyles. 3.2 Various cultural and social contribution activities We strive to engage in various activities including the promotion of culture, arts, and sports. Furthermore, we are pleased to support individuals and groups who pursue such activities. 3.3 Support for employee activities We actively support the participation of employees in volunteering and other social contribution activities. 267 4．Conserving the environment We strive to conserve the global environment and ensure that a sustainable society rich in biodiversity and harmonious with nature is preserved for future generations. 4.1 Water sustainability Water is the source of all life forms and the key element of our business. We make continuous efforts to conserve the watersheds in order to contribute to water sustainability. 4.2 Reduction of environmental impact We strive to reduce our environmental impact throughout the value chain, including in product development, manufacturing, distribution, and sales. 4.3 Continuous improvement of environmental performance We are committed to continuous improvement of our environmental performance, delivered by proactive use of green technologies and efficiency upgrades, based on a robust Environmental Management System (EMS). 5．Respecting diversity and human rights, creating a positive work environment We respect human rights and diversity, and endeavor to create a work environment where employees feel engaged and motivated. 5.1 Child labor and forced labor We strictly prohibit the use of child labor, forced or involuntary labor or other illegal labor practices in any of our activities. 5.2 Discrimination and harassment We provide a workplace where all employees are treated fairly, human rights and individual values are respected, and discrimination or harassment based on any grounds such as race, religion, gender, age, nationality, language or disability is not tolerated. All instances of human rights violation must be immediately addressed in appropriate manner and prevented from reoccurring, while due attention should be paid to safeguarding the privacy of all those affected. 5.3 Freedom of association We respect employees' basic rights to freedom of association and collective bargaining. 5.4 Positive work environment We create healthy, safe, and positive workplaces, and promote working styles that offer work-life balance. 5.5 Open and inclusive work culture We cultivate an open-minded and inclusive workplace, where everyone's beliefs and values are respected, and where employees with diverse backgrounds are able to act and express themselves freely. Furthermore, we build harmonious relationships filled with a sense of unity, through effective communication across the Suntory Group. 5.6 Challenge and growth We enable personal growth of our employees by encouraging them to set and achieve challenging goals with a feeling of pride and sense of responsibility towards their work. 268 6．Managing and utilizing information and corporate assets We endeavor to appropriately protect, manage and utilize corporate assets and information, and respect the rights of third parties. 6.1 Corporate assets We properly manage our corporate assets, whether tangible or intangible, in accordance with internal rules, and ensure that such assets are used only for our business operations. 6.2 Confidential information We carefully manage the company's confidential information to ensure that it is not leaked or otherwise disclosed to any third party. Furthermore, we must not use information we learn through our work for the company or otherwise for unfair or illicit purposes, including insider trading. 6.3 Personal information We obtain personal information or confidential information of our customers, consumers and business partners by proper means and use such information only for legitimate purposes. We also manage this information properly and in accordance with applicable laws and regulations as well as internal rules. 6.4 Intellectual properties We protect our intellectual properties appropriately and we grant licenses to third parties in accordance with applicable laws and regulations as well as internal rules. We also fully respect the intellectual property rights of third parties and do not infringe or misappropriate them. 6.5 External communications We understand that, as members of the Suntory Group, all public statements and the information we share in different circumstances can affect the reputation and business of the company and the Group. We remain constantly aware of this fact and ensure responsible conduct at all times in such public or external communications. 269 Administration and Implementation of this Code Scope of application （1）The Suntory Group Code of Business Ethics (the Code ) applies to all directors, officers, employees of Suntory Holdings Limited and its group companies (Suntory Holdings Limited and its group companies are hereinafter collectively referred to as Suntory Group , and individually a Group Company ). （2）The senior management of the Group Companies are expected to realize the spirit of this Code by modeling the behaviors embedded in this Code, promoting this Code within their respective Group Companies, and establishing effective corporate structures to implement and uphold this Code. Based on the spirit of this Code, each Group Company may establish and implement its own code of conduct, guidelines, manuals and other documents pertaining to corporate ethics or the provisions set out in this Code, which shall be used as the detailed standards of behavior at the respective Group Companies. Such code, guidelines, manuals and other documents should not contradict the Code. （3）We request anyone acting on behalf of any Group Company to ensure such actions comply with this Code. We also strive to encourage business partners of our Group Companies to understand and respect the provisions set out in this Code. Establishment, revision and abolishment The establishment, revision and abolishment of this Code shall be deliberated by the Global Risk Management Committee and approved by the Board of Directors of Suntory Holdings Limited. Department in charge This Code is governed by the Compliance Depar tment of Risk Management Division, Suntor y Holdings Limited (hereinaf ter, SHD Compliance Department ), which provides the Group Companies with recommendations, and supports them in implementation of the provisions set out in this Code, and in the establishment of corporate ethics. Compliance audit To assess the compliance with and review the effectiveness of this Code, the Global Risk Management Committee will perform, or have any third party perform, audits of Group Companies as necessary, conducted along with other various measures carried out by the SHD Compliance Department. Violations Directors, officers and employees who become aware of any actual or potential breach of this Code, are expected to report this breach and seek advice from their direct supervisor, the compliance department or a whistleblowing hotline established in their respective Group Company, or contact the Suntory Group Global Hotline. The confidentiality of a person reporting a breach will be protected to the utmost extent, and Suntory Group does not tolerate any retaliation against such person. Violation of this Code, depending on its nature and severity, may result in disciplinary actions based on the internal rules of each Group Company, which may include termination in certain circumstances. Interpretation If you have any inquiries concerning the interpretation or implementation of this Code, please direct them to the SHD Compliance Department. 270 To Create Harmony To Create Harmony To Create Harmony To Create Harmony with Customers Corporate and Partners with Nature with Society with Employee Governance Corporate Governance Risk Management We strive to understand and analyze the risks to the Group as a whole and take measures to resolve the issues so that we may continue our business operations and contribute to society. Risk Management Promotion System In response to the expansion of global business of the Group, the Global Risk Management Committee (GRMC) was established in April 2015 in order to carry out risk management throughout the entire Group, including overseas Group companies. We have established a risk management committee and risk management team based on this GRMC (e.g. installation of a Risk Management Committee at Suntory Beverage & Foods Ltd., the Global Risk & Compliance Committee at Beam Suntory, and the Risk Management Team at Suntory Beer Ltd.). The objectives of these committees and teams are to identify our risks, execute countermeasures, engage in activities related to the establishment of crisis management systems, and fulfill responsibilities towards customers and other stakeholders. Enterprise Risk Management (ERM) The risk surrounding companies is becoming more diverse and complex due to the globalization and informatization of the economy and growing public awareness of corporate social responsibility. Every year, we send out a questionnaire to all Suntory Group companies to determine business, environmental and social risks at each company that could significantly impact all our stakeholders in order to formulate countermeasures. Monitoring is carried out by departments responsible for responding to risks and each risk management committee to reduce and eliminate risks by identifying the priority areas that we should address as an entire Group. Since FY2016, we have been identifying and developing measures to counteract risks occurring in each group company; additionally, we identify risks we are exposed to as a group. The results of risk assessment are reported to the Board of Directors. ■Establishing Infrastructure for Crises Response The risks companies face are becoming ever more complex, diverse and significant and the enhancement of risk management is a necessity in management. Therefore it becomes especially important to establish Business Continuity Plan (BCP) based on the estimation of potential damage in case of crisis. The Suntory Group has built an infrastructure to respond to crises by establishing the Risk and Crisis First-Response Manual for each company in Japan and the Major Incident Management Manual for each overseas company. We aim to minimize impact and damage in case of disaster through timely sharing information and decision-making when a major crisis occurs to maintain the trust from society. ■Building/Strengthening System Platforms of Group Companies in Japan We continue to organize Risk Management Steering Conferences with the help of departments responsible for risk response at each Group company and Suntory Holdings Ltd. with the goal to build and strengthen the risk management system platforms of Group companies in Japan. We share challenges related to risks and assess the response measures carried out by each company through bilateral discussions. 271 ■Business Continuity Plan (BCP) Formulation and Implementation In recent years there has been a string of unanticipated disasters, including both natural disasters such as major earthquakes, flooding caused by typhoons and torrential rainfall, landslides, heavy snow and volcano eruptions, and the spread of infectious diseases such as COVID-19, new influenza and noroviruses, which continually threaten both society and the economy. The Suntory Group has formulated a Business Continuity Plan (BCP) that will enable us to continue doing business as much as possible without interruption in the event of a disaster, to securely provide high quality products and services to customers, thus fulfilling our responsibilities to provide supplies. The plan we have formulated goes beyond manufacturing at Suntory Group plants to include raw material procurement and distribution as well as sales activities. We have taken steps to be able to decentralize our head office functions and infrastructure in an emergency and continue to strengthen our response structure to cope with contingencies. ■Large-scale Natural Disaster Measures Establishment of Safety Confirmation System and Emergency Drills In preparation for natural disasters such as major earthquakes in Japan, we have in place a system that uses mobile phones, PCs, landlines, etc., to confirm the whereabouts and safety of employees. We hold safety confirmation drills twice a year and work to raise awareness to ensure that the system operates smoothly. We also conduct regular disaster prevention drills based on the scenario of a major earthquake and drills focusing on how to get home Disaster Countermeasures from work on foot. Headquarters Training Disaster Response Systems After a major disaster occurs, our first response procedures entail rapidly establishing a Response Task Force centered on the General Affairs Department of Suntory Holdings Limited, with Response Teams in each division placed under it. The Response Task Force handles all matters including confirming the safety and whereabouts of employees and their families, collection and coordination of disaster-related information, functional recovery of business offices, recovery of information systems, distribution of relief supplies, functional recovery of production, and provision of assistance to clients and the local community. These activities are conducted in line with each division's activity policy. These systems and procedures are made accessible on the Intranet so that employees can review them at any time. Since the Great East Japan Earthquake in 2011, we have revised our response manuals, further fortified our disaster relief stock pile and have strengthened our systems for when a disaster occurs. ■Measures Against Infectious Diseases Since the influenza pandemic in 2009, we have been taking measures to avoid the disruption of business operations by creating a manual on response process during a pandemic based on our Influenza Prevention Manual, disseminating information among employees, clarifying reporting system during pandemic, and strengthening measures to prevent the spread of infection. In addition, we created a course of action related to highly pathogenic diseases to handle all diseases (revised 2015). Furthermore, we have established a BCP that enables operations to continue even during a pandemic of COVID-19, highly-virulent influenza or other diseases. 272 ■Safety Management for People Sent Overseas Dealing with the various risks to employees who are sent overseas is a challenge as globalization advances in recent years. In 2013, Suntory Holdings Ltd. launched a system that allows us to consistently understand the situation of people sent from Japan to overseas offices. Furthermore, since 2017 we have introduced an infrastructure system shared by the entire Group that can centrally manage overseas business trip arrangements, applications, and post-payment settlements, and established a system for confirming the safety of overseas business travelers within a short period of time. In Group companies located in regions where malaria, tuberculosis, HIV/AIDS, and other infectious diseases are prevalent, we also strive to take measures to prevent employees working overseas, including employees on overseas business trips, from becoming infected by communicable diseases through efforts including awareness raising through the distribution of handbooks and other materials as well as by providing employees with opportunities to consult with industrial physicians about their health. Anti-bribery We promote awareness and understanding by establishing guidelines for entertainment and gift-giving in-line with global standards. We have declared the basic approach of the Suntory Group for anti-bribery activities of directors and employees of the Suntory Group worldwide (Anti-Bribery Measures) in 2015 as our response to global enhancement of anti-corruption regulations, such as the Foreign Corrupt Practices Act (FCPA). Each initiative conducted by the Global Risk Management Committee is reported to the Board of Directors. We have formulated a global Anti-Bribery Policy in 2016, which includes new provisions on donations and political contributions in addition to entertainment and bribery. The Suntory Group's Code of Business Ethics is a set of rules which do not tolerate any improprieties or unfair practices. The Suntory Group actively works to raise awareness and conduct training related to global anti-bribery policies and guidelines for employees while regularly conducting monitoring. Moreover, we have put in place a global Compliance Hotline to create and utilize a system for receiving reports and carrying out consultations. Employees are encouraged to immediately report any corruption cases or actions thought to be corruption. Anti-Bribery Measures 1. Suntory Group, as a global group, is firmly committed to compliance with applicable anti-corruption laws and regulations around the world. 2. All Suntory employees worldwide are prohibited from giving or receiving bribes in any form, directly or indirectly, to anyone (public officials and private counterparties). 3. Suntory Group is committed to providing employees with clear guidelines such as Gifts, Entertainment and Hospitality. 4. Suntory Group is committed to maintaining accurate books and records and appropriate internal accounting controls systems, which shall be audited periodically by our independent auditors. 5. Suntory Group will communicate its compliance objectives, including how seriously it takes ethical conduct and compliance, to its employees, business partners, agents and other third parties. 6. Suntory Group will provide its employees comprehensive compliance and prevention of corruption training programs. 7. Suntory Holdings is committed to enhancing centralized monitoring processes worldwide. 8. Suntory Group wants and expects violations and concerns to be reported and will take action to investigate any complaints. 9.Suntory Group will provide employees with the resources to help them with compliance. 273 Risk Assessment for Corruption The Suntory Group openly communicates about its due diligence processes and the nature of relationships with its business partners; the Group builds efficient risk management system that includes due diligence of its business partners. If a given business area or a transaction appear to have high risk of corruption, we take decisive actions to mitigate the risk in this business area or a transaction. Tightening Information Security We are tightening information security systems in the entire Group to respond to information security risks, which are one of the most serious risks in operations. Global security policies were also formulated in an effort to enhance informational security at a global level. ■Strengthening Information Security Systems Suntory has established governance through preservation and systems for informational assets by defining the Suntory Group's Basic Principles for Governance of Information Security based on the growing needs of society that demand even stricter management of corporate information security. We formulated the Suntory Group's Social Media Policy that stipulates the rules for using social media in Japan (such as Facebook, Twitter, Line, etc.) to respond to the risk of information leaks. We are reinforcing the awareness of each and every employee in the handling of information while advancing the information management of the entire Group based on these policies. Suntory Group Information Security Basic Policy Our information assets are a source of the Suntory Group's competitiveness. During our strategic usage and application of such assets, we must be worthy of our customers' trust in us and fulfill our corporate social responsibility. Thusly, we have identified the appropriate safeguarding of information assets as being an important management challenge, and have instituted the following basic policy, which promotes information security governance. ・By maintaining a chain of responsibility for information security and by formulating and enforcing rules on the handling of information, we will strive for appropriate management as one group. ・By specifying how the information assets that we possess should be handled in accordance with their importance and any risks, we will strive for their secure and proper use and their appropriate safeguarding. ・We will conduct the ongoing education and training of our directors, all employees, and other personnel, and we will commit to awareness-raising regarding this issue and ensure full compliance with rules related to information security. ・We will strive to prevent information security incidents, and in the unlikely event that such an incident occurs, we will swiftly take action to recover and implement corrective measures. ・While complying with laws and regulations in every country we operate in related to information assets, we will continuously improve and enhance the abovementioned information security policies. 274 ■Strengthening of Human Resource and Legal Management We have established rules and regulations for the correct use of information systems and the management of confidential information, and we are raising awareness of that information via our intranet. Moreover, we are raising Group awareness to the fullest at each Group company in Japan through the following measure: ・Improve information management systems that are based on vulnerability analysis ・Introduce e-learning and study sessions to increase awareness of the importance of information security and the handling of information ・Establish rules related to using social media and introduce study sessions for employees ・Conduct training related to targeted email attacks that are growing year after year ・Work with members under the guidance of risk management control supervisors and leaders at each company to improve IT literacy In 2016, Suntory put in place the Computer Security Incident Response Time (CSIRT) as a specialized organization to response to computer security incidents in an effort to prevent informational security incidents and strengthen its response in times of disasters as a Group. ■Strengthening of Physical and Technological Management Suntory has adopted an entry-exit management system that uses security cards at the Odaiba office, Osaka office and each of our other business sites. We are also strengthening the management of access to information systems throughout the Group via authentication functions that use security cards and passwords. In addition, to prevent information leak, we put in place preventative measures for overwriting data on information recording mediums and established systems (automated encr yption) to safely store vital information (personal/ confidential information). We adopted other measures that include measures to disable automatic forwarding of emails, unauthorized access from outside the company as well as setup and monitoring of a firewall to prevent attacks. ■Initiatives for SNS Risks Individuals can now easily distribute information with the rise in popularity of social media (SNS). However, we see the instances when negative information spreads widely through SNS and damages corporate value. The Suntory Group is conducting activities to make employees more sensitive to SNS risks (awareness raising through e-learning, group seminars and promoting use of various education tool, etc.) by formulating various standards and guidelines for use of SNS, discovering risks as early as possible, and launching response systems to lessen the SNS risks. SNS risk seminar framework ■Support of the My Number System We have put in place measures to properly manage personal information safely at each Group company as deemed necessary for identifiable personal information (My Number System) introduced in 2016. We have confirmed that our subcontractors have put these measures in place as well. ■Protecting Customers' Personal Information Each company in Suntory Group stores personal information of many customers such as of those that applied for product sales promotion campaigns and customers using mail-order of health foods, etc. The Suntory Group works to protect personal information of the entire Group according to the Act on the Protection of Personal Information and Guidelines to protect important customer information. Employee Education on Personal Information Protection We hold e-learning and study sessions for all of the employees in the Group to disseminate the importance of personal information protection. We conducted more focused information security education in departments that directly handle personal information. 275 Sales Promotion Campaign History Management System All processes from acquiring information to deleting records are managed through Campaign History Management System upon signing non-disclosure agreement with subcontractor for sale promotion campaigns that collect customers' address, name and other personal information. In addition, personal information that requires being stored is centrally managed in dedicated database in-house to protect customers' information. Information Management of Mail-order Customers Information of mail-order customers at Suntory Wellness Ltd. are centrally managed in a dedicated closed system in communication management center in which access is strictly managed using the finger vein recognition system. Finger Vein Recognition system Initiative on Intellectual Property Rights We are increasing the importance of intellectual assets each year by raising awareness about intellectual assets for society and introducing several measures through the government. The Suntory Group has established an Intellectual Property Department focused on patents as a division that supervises intellectual property as well as a Trademark Office focused on trademarks and corporate guidelines. ■Utilization of Intellectual Property Suntory acquires and utilizes results of product and technological research and development as intellectual property and promotes activities to continuously provide highly value added products unique to Suntory Group. In addition, we implement an incentive scheme based on Invention Regulation in the Group to promote and utilize employee inventions. ■Respecting Intellectual Property of Others While utilizing intellectual properties, we collect information closely with the site of research and development to avoid violating intellectual property owned by others. For example, upon adopting new technology, we survey if a patent is owned by others. Furthermore, when adopting a product name, we survey whether or not it is registered as a trade name and refer to the opinions of experts to decide whether the names are similar. 276 Sustainability Initiatives Group Company's Sustainability Right from its founding in 1899, Suntory has worked to expand its business. Operating today as the Suntory Group, the company is active across a broad range of fields that include not only the alcoholic beverage, non-alcoholic beverage, and food businesses, but also health foods, restaurants, and flowers. The company has further been expanding its operations across the world, conducting business in Asia, Oceania, Europe, and the Americas. This site introduces various activities of the Group companies. 277 Group Company's Sustainability Activities of Overseas Group Companies Suntory Beverage & Food Pepsi Bottling Ventures Group Suntory Beverage & Food Asia Europe Plans management strategy and Production and sales of PepsiCo's Production and sales of Health administer soft drink business primarily in beverage brands Supplements, Drinks, Food and Coffee Europe PT Suntory Garuda Beverage Suntory PepsiCo Vietnam Frucor Suntory Beverage Production and sales of non-alcoholic Production and sales of non-alcoholic Production and sales of non-alcoholic beverages beverages beverages Beam Suntory Inc. Cha^ teau Lagrange S.A.S. Weingut Robert Weil Manufacture and sale of whiskey and Production and sales of wines Production and sales of wines other spirits 278 Suntory Beverage & Food Europe ・Suntory Beverage & Food France ・Suntory Beverage & Food Great Britain and Ireland ・Suntory Beverage & Food Spain ・EECM Suntory Beverage & Food Europe Head Office 2 Longwalk Road, Stockley Park, Uxbridge UB111BA UK Business Soft drinks production and sales activities 10 Core brands: Orangina, Schweppes, Oasis, Pulco, La Casera, Trina, Lucozade, Website https://www.suntorybeverageandfood-europe.com/ Ribena, Sunny Delight and MayTea Company Overview and Philosophy Suntory Beverage & Food France Head Office 40-52 bd du parc, 92200 Neuilly-sur-Seine FRANCE Suntory Beverage & Food Great Britain and Ireland Head Office 2 Longwalk Road, Stockley Park, Uxbridge UB111BA UK Suntory Beverage & Food Spain Head Office Paseo de la Castellana 202, 28046 Madrid SPAIN EECM SIL, Media arena 5-6, 1114BC Amsterdam-Duivendrecht, Head Office THE NETHERLANDS Sustainable Growth with Purpose Our environmental, social and corporate governance agenda is hugely important to us. We work towards the group's global vision of‘Growing for Good’; Doing the right thing by people and the planet as we produce, market and sell our drinks. The sustainable work that we do is anchored by four key pillars; our drinks, our resources, our society and ourselves, that all reinforce the UN's Sustainable Development Goals; a blueprint to achieve a better and more sustainable future for all. By managing the impacts and issues in these areas through ambitious targets that are clear and measurable, and by forging leadership we seek to deliver harmony with our consumers, customers and with our own employees while respecting always our natural world. Our framework of responsibility and leadership will drive us forward, guide and inspire us. It will help make our ambitious and exciting vision of Growing for Good a reality. 279 Our drinks Harmony with consumers Through our drinks we make and sell we will create harmony with our consumers, building trust in what we produce and playing a positive role in their lives. We will be a progressive force in our industry, leading by example in reducing ingredients that consumers tell us they want less of, and promoting the good stuff that helps people live more healthily and happily. Less Sugar By 2025 it is our ambition to have reduced sugar across our portfolio by 35%. We are making excellent progress and by the end of 2019 have already delivered a 19% reduction from our baseline set in 2015. As well as re-formulating our drinks to lower the sugar content we are also introducing new lower sugar, lower calorie drinks such as Lucozade Revive, a lightly sparkling, naturally flavoured fruit-based drink in the UK. We also launched Oasis O'Verger a fruity water with recipes made up of more than 46% fruit for an authentic taste, spring water and just the sugar naturally present in fruits (no added sugar / less than 5g/100 m) for ultra-refreshing pleasure. In Spain we have also introduced low calorie Schweppes Lemon, Orange, Pink and Ginger Ale. These drinks are widely distributed and are available in 98% of retail points. 280 InBenelux (Belgium, Netherlands and Luxembourg) we launched Oasis Aquafruit, a fruity water containing more than 40% fruits with 100% ingredients from natural origin, without added sugars or sweeteners. In the UK and Ireland we've reduced sugar across our core drink range by 50%, removing 25,000 tonnes of sugar and 98BN calories through a far-reaching reformulation programme. We've been bold with our decisions on our most famous drinks, introducing a zero or low-calorie alternative for each one of them. Across all European Export and Commercial Markets, the amount of sugar added to our beverages was reduced by 4,6% and in 2019 alone 30 new SKUs were added to the portfolio across all markets with no or low calories. ■Positive Choices We pride ourselves on providing consumers with easy-to-access nutritional information about the drinks they choose. Information is clearly displayed on all labels and on websites. We also collaborate with industry partners to promote responsible marketing of our drinks. We are a signatory to UNESDA's responsible marketing in schools programme and have pledged that none of our drinks are sold at primary schools, and drinks containing sugar are restricted for sale at secondary schools across all EU member states. The UK has created its own voluntary marketing code to ensure that responsible corporate citizenship is at the heart of everything we do. This includes our commitment not to directly market products categorised as high in fat, sugar and salt (“HFSS”) to consumers who are under the age of 16. In France, we volunteered in 2009 to not communicate on screens and in magazines aimed specifically at children under the age of 12-year-old. Since 2013, our commitments go further because we prohibit all advertising in generalist programmes including where children constitute more than 35% of the audience. In Spain our code of marketing practice specifically states that we do not advertise to children under 12 years of age or sponsor events aimed at children in schools. We also convey messages in all our advertising campaigns promoting healthy lifestyle habits. ■More Natural We continue to look at new ways to promote naturality through our drinks and have an ambition to remove all artificial colours and flavours from our product portfolio within 5 years. We respond to the consumer necessities with more natural products by replacing additives and free sugars with other components such as natural sweeteners (stevia), or through manufacturing processes so that the final product is less artificial as possible: Schweppes PINK available in Spain is a great example. In the UK new Lucozade Revive is made with natural fruit flavours, contains no artificial colours, and contains vitamins B3, B5, B6 & B12 to help reduce tiredness. In France, Oasis reinvents itself to offer drinks with less sugar and now with 100% natural origin ingredients. After having renovated in June 2019 its best-selling reference “Oasis Tropical”, then “Oasis Pomme Cassis Framboise” and “Oasis Multifruit” at the end of the year to adopt a list of ingredients 100% natural origin, the brand is committed to renovating all these other recipes by 2022 281 Our resources Harmony with nature We will manage our natural resources in a way that creates harmony with nature, never taking too much or damaging the world that we rely on in our lives and our business. We will minimise our environmental impact by applying our philosophy, Mizu To Ikiru, to the resources throughout all of our business activity: sourcing, manufacturing, packaging, distributing, selling and managing consumer waste. Less and better packaging In September 2019 we announced our goal to be the first global drinks company to use 100% sustainable plastic bottles, using fully recycled or plant-based materials across our entire portfolio by 2030. By buying increasing amounts of recycled plastic, investing heavily in new, innovative technologies, we will ultimately reduce our plastic consumption and carbon emissions. As an interim goal, our drinks containers will use 50% recycled plastic by 2025. Some of our drinks containers already use only 100% recycled plastic (rPET), for example Ribena in the UK which has been using recycled plastic for more than 10 years. We will also be ensuring that all the packaging we produce is 100% recyclable by 2025 or sooner. That means that there will be changes to be made in the containers we use, and the packaging we put products in. In Spain our packaging is already 100% recyclable and we are working towards making it fully sustainable too. Through its Lucozade Sport brand, the UK has also invested in sustainable packaging start-up, Notpla to produce edible and biodegradble pods aimed at reducing plastic packaging and liquid at mass-participation sporting events. Exemplary of a pace to reach our goals ahead of schedule is the Scandinavian region with partners such as Spendrups in Sweden and Carlsberg in Denmark and Finland, which reached rPET content of 25% or even 50% already in 2019 and testing of 100% sustainable material in the pipeline. They function as great examples and reassure us of our vision to work together with our bottlers to reach our ambitious targets. In order to reach our sustainable plastic goal, in 2019 SBFE invested in Carbios, a company pioneering a bio-industrial solution to recycling PET using an enzymatic process. SBFE is part of a consortium that is funding this ground-breaking technology in order to progress to a mass-market solution that could dramatically reduce the volume of plastic waste and ensure that there is a circular economy solution for PET. Supporting the recycling process also means encouraging our consumers to recycle more. In 2019 our leading brands invested in marketing campaigns to convey these important sustainability messages. We also supported industry-wide efforts for mass-market public campaigns. 282 In the UK we ran out of home and digital advertising during Recycle Week across Lucozade Energy and Ribena, as well as using our brand's well-known ambassadors to maximise reach and drive the recycling message home. We also celebrated our second year as members of the UK Plastics Pact by supporting the launch of clearonplastics.com a resource aimed at cutting through the confusion on plastic as well as partnering with industry heavyweights to bring the UK's biggest recycling collaboration to two new cities. Less waste It is our ambition to be zero waste to landfill from our production facilities and we are making good progress to achieve this. We also want to see waste eliminated across the entire value chain. We believe that a circular economy is the best way to eliminate waste and we can play our part by increasing the amount of recycled content we put into our packaging for example the UK produces Ribena bottles using 100% recycled plastic and since 2018. MayTea bottles started using 50% recycled content in 2019. We also have an ambition to reduce food waste from our production by 50% in support of Sustainable Development Goal 12.3. We do this by redirecting surplus product to food surplus organisations and charitable donations to support those vulnerable people in need who suffer from food poverty. Educating our employees on reducing waste is a big part of what we do. In Benelux, we launched a Green Week (7 days, 7 workshops). We worked together on zero waste practices, less packaging tips, better local and veggie consumption, we did a plogging around the lake near our office and collected more than 45 full bags of trash in an hour. All 120 Benelux employees participated at least once to this event. In 2019, the UK announced that it would be funding an additional two years of Love Your Forest our own anti-litter campaign centered around the Forest of Dean where our factory and many of our colleagues reside. This was in addition to launching a brand-new anti-littering toolkit designed to encourage other communities to adopt the campaign's most successful interventions. In the spirit of anti-littering, the UK has also invested in litter picking equipment at all three sites for teams to use voluntarily. Respect water Water is the main ingredient of all of our products and in many ways the origins of our business. It is also our Purpose as a business “Mizu To Ikiru“. That is why we believe we have a role to play in protecting this commodity, in encouraging sustainable water management for next generations. We have an ambition to reduce water at our production plants by 15% by 2030 and we are on track to achieve this. We invest in a number of water reduction and water reuse initiatives across our factories, and share best practice in order to be as efficient in our water use as possible. Our factory in Toledo has made great progress and has already reduced water use by 10% as of 2019. In January 2020, the UK invested £13million in a new high-speed filling line. This line uses 40% less energy and water and directly contributes to our goals of using less resources. In Spain, our Guardians of Júcar project aims to improve the quality of surface waters, recover natural areas of the riverbank, contribute to the knowledge and improvement of aquatic ecosystems, eliminate invasive species on river banks and promote a public use of Natural spaces through two initiatives: the rehabilitation of the natural environment of the Barxeta Creek (which is already finished), and the improvement of the quality of the water thanks to the implementation of a green filter (to be started by the end of 2020). This project is due to end in June 2021. 283 In France, we've signed a 20-year partnership with Grand Parc Miribel Jonage located near our Meyzieu plant. It is the biggest metropolitan public protected park in France and we are committed to support water education programs, sponsor workshops for kids and families enabling them to understand the role of water. Amongst other things, we are also helping them replant and restore the alluvial forest around the Rhône river. In the Netherlands Suntory is sponsoring a project in the‘Marker Wadden' executed by the Dutch Society for Nature Conservation, that is restoring one of the largest freshwater lakes in western Europe by constructing islands, marshland and mud flats. Reduce emissions We are committed to tackling climate change and will do this by reducing our carbon emissions across our total value chain. We have set clear Science Based Targets to reduce our emissions by 25% from our production (scope 1&2) and 20% across our wider supply chain (scope 3). We are making good progress and we track our carbon footprint annually in order to ensure we are transparent in our reporting. In France, fighting against global warming is one of our priorities. We have reduced our CO2 emission by 35% per litre of drink produced over the last 10 years with the target to achieve carbon neutrality of its 4 factories by 2020. Transportation represent 11% of our carbon footprint. We are optimizing the number and location of our warehouses in order to reduce distances travelled by our products. We are also working on improving our logistic flow and trying to reduce the number of empty trips made by trucks. In Spain we are committed on Zero Emission for the 100% of our fleet by 2030. In January 2020 we started to source 50% of our electricity across our factories and offices from renewable sources managed through green energy contracts. In the UK our purchased energy at our factory comes from renewable sources and in 2020 we will move to solar sourced energy that will provide 25% of our energy needs. In January 2020, the UK invested £13million in a new high-speed filling line. This line uses 40% less energy and water and which results in a 4% reduction in energy use at our factory, directly contributing to our CO2 reduction goal. And all of our employees can support our goal to tackle climate change. In Benelux the team has reduced its energy bill by 17.5%. This reduction is mainly due to the modification of the time slots for heating the building. In terms of lightning in 2019, we have reduced our bill by 13.5%, this reduction is largely due to the replacement of our neon lights in the building part by LED neon lights and the installation of presence detectors in the various toilets. 284 Procure sustainably In 2019 SBFE became members of SEDEX. As members of this global organization we aim to obtain deeper insights into the environmental and ethical performance of our suppliers. By the end of 2020 all of our main suppliers who supply our core ingredients will have completed a self-assessment questionnaire (SAQ), with additional SMETA audits conducted for any supplier that is flagged through the SAQ process. As a business that is reliant on the procurement of fruit for our soft drink brands we are concerned with global impact on biodiversity from climate change and non-sustainable farming practices. In the UK, 90% of blackcurrants grown in Britain are used to make Ribena and we see it as our duty to produce the most sustainable crops possible. We employ a full-time agronomist and partner with the Farming & Wildlife Advisory Group so that each of our growers has a resilient biodiversity plan tailored to the individual habitats found in and around each farm. The comprehensive plans, in place since 2004, have helped us restore 200 miles of rough field margins, build more than 2,000 nest boxes, sow an area bigger than the City of London with pollen and nectar-rich plants, and create wetlands, restore ponds, plant woodlands and build bee hotels. In 2019 we promoted the programme with a blog and guide to birds on our website, as well as featuring the blackcurrant farms and grower in Ribena's national TV advertising campaign. In Spain we work with local suppliers near manufacturing centers to promote the production and development of local areas. In addition, the contracts with the ingredients suppliers include environmental clauses with the commitment to protect the environment, reduce the carbon footprint, improve the water and energy consumption, as well as improve waste management. 23% of the fruit used as an ingredient can be found in less than 100 km from the production plant. France is committed to sustainable purchasing for all its fruits. That is why, France has issued a guideline of good practices on sustainable sourcing that has been approved and signed by 100% of its partners. Our society Harmony with people Shinjiro Torii founded Suntory with the spirit of‘sharing the profit with society', and this spirit lives on today. We want to create harmony with people by making a positive impact on the communities that produce and consume our products. We do this through the way we work, the social contributions we make, and the messages our brands promote. Empowering communities In France, we are partnering with different associations “Le Secours Populaire Français” acting against poverty and exclusion and “L'AFEV” empowering less favored young adults as they enter the work force and fighting against school dropout. In the UK in 2018 we launched B Active, a three-year sport for development programme that uses the power of sport and exercise to forge career pathways and positively impact the lives of 16-24-year olds living in communities that need it most. Since 2018 B Active has: ・Provided 8,000 young adults with regular access to sport and exercise ・Broken down barriers to entry by offering free participation ・Enabled 1,400 young adults to volunteer in their community ・Awarded 950 young adults with accreditation in a range of courses ・Addressed the participation gap among females 16 years+ by offering female-only sessions The programme is being independently evaluated by academics from Leeds Beckett University, and their findings will be available in Spring 2021. 285 In Morocco a considerable budget has been dedicated to make a difference locally through a collaboration with our partner LEMO and focusing on working with ENACTUS on “The Water Price”, project to increase awareness and mobilize students around issues related to water access and to preserve the groundwater. They're challenged to develop innovative and high impact solutions, the most promising solutions are then sponsored to be implemented, giving the students a chance to set up a profitable business. Purposeful brands We bring Growing for Good to life through the power of our brands. In the UK we have been celebrating inclusivity with Lucozade Sport. The brand was the first soft-drinks company to become a sponsor of the England Women's International football team‘The Lionesses’and celebrated this by producing limited edition bottles featuring members of the team. A new TV advertisement featuring the women's team was produced with the brand committing the same level of advertising investment usually reserved for campaigns supporting the male game. This proud support of equality in sport was marked with the brand's work being nominated for several marketing and sports industry awards. Ourselves Harmony with employees Our company is defined by the way we work. We will ensure harmony with employees by working with an ethos that is open, flexible and accountable, supporting our people throughout our supply chain and ensuring that we, and they, maintain the highest standards in everything we do. All employees across SBFE have a‘Growing for Good’day entitlement. This is a paid day that can be given back to the community through volunteering or fundraising. In 2019 around 20% of our employees used their day to support local community initiatives, this ranged from clearing up litter from beaches in the Caribbean and cannals in Amsterdam, to supporting our Love Your Forest anti-litter campaign in the Forest of Dean in the UK. In Portugal, twenty of our employees participated in a waste cleaning day at Sintra Beach. And in November another fifty of our employees based in Carcaixent spent the day cleaning and restoring a riverbank as part of the Guardians of Water project. Our volunteers also participated in a workshop learning all about the importance of clean water and healthy river eco-systems. 286 In Spain, our teams have made both financial and in-kind donations to the local community. Economic contributions that employees made to food banks were matched by the company, and in addition our employees collected food and drink products to take to local food banks to support alleviation of food poverty. We also donated 25,000 cases of our drinks to local charities and food bank centres. Encouraging our teams to take personal ownerships of sustainability is the most powerful way we can change our behaviours. Our Benelux team participated in many green challenges and during 3 months, they had to create and implement a green idea / or a green action. For example, the HR department created an ephemeral shop with only zerowaste and recovery products, the Finance team removed all unnecessary emails and reduced server data space, the Sales Impulse team checked the tire pressure of all the company's cars and the Supply Chain the winners have raised awareness of an ecological action every week through small theatrical moments that have made many laughs! Throughout the week, all employees came at least once by train, carpool or even by bike! In Trinidad over 100 volunteers nationwide joined the clean-up in commemoration of World's Oceans Day organized by Suntory and collected over 3000llbs of garbage (190 pounds of plastic waste, 380 pounds of glass, and 2,078 pounds of general waste). Inclusive and flexible People matter. We are encouraging and fostering a healthy lifestyle for our employees. In 2018, in the UK we introduced flexible working hours and in 2019 started Flexible Fridays, a new initiative which was fully embraced by all employees. In France we have signed a chart of quality of work life and equal opportunities with the aim of being a great place to work. As part of this chart, we have different initiatives around parenthood, gender equity, well-balanced private and professional life. In Spain we have focused on creating opportunities for the personal and professional growth of our teams. Initiatives that are supported include scholarships to study new languages, leadership development programme, and a general talent policy, value-added initiatives and teambuilding. The management team in Spain is also focused on building physical, intellectual and emotional care programs, an example is the very popular mindfulness program and in 2019 a new conciliation and flexibility plan called ‘FLOW’ became available for employees, better allowing them to balance work and home life. In the headquarter of Schweppes International employees are encouraged to keep moving during office hours, taking “meeting-walks”, sportive activities are offered on a regular basis including yoga classes, boxing, running or Zumba, as well as fresh fruit being available. To keep mentally engaged a wide range of online courses has been made available for everyone. Accountable for our value chain Building trust means challenging ours and others’perceptions of acceptable behaviour and always acting with respect for others. Our Modern Slavery Act statement sets out the steps we have taken and will continue to take to ensure that modern slavery and human trafficking are not taking place within our business or supply chains. Together with the SEDEX assessment, we aim to have more scrutiny and transparency throughout the supply chain, holding ourselves and others to the highest standards. 287 Ethical employer At the heart of our Suntory values is a commitment to working with integrity and we take great pride in our reputation for always conducting business in an honest, open and fair way. That is why we are training our employees on compliance and other topics in order to ensure that everyone understands relevant laws and responsibilities. Spain is carrying out a process of changing the culture of prevention by seeking to improve the Health and Safety of its employees, focusing on the visible commitment of all hierarchical levels and the participation of all employees. This process is reflected in projects such as Vision ZERO, Road Safety Plan, Training in First Aid which also have an impact on society. France has rolled out a training called “Play Safe” around how to behave in the face of risks making sure everyone is the guarantor of its security. 288 Pepsi Bottling Ventures Group 4141 ParkLake Ave., Suite 600, Raleigh, NC 27612, Head Office USA Established 1943 Business Production and sales of PepsiCo's beverage brands in activities the U.S. East Coast PBV's distribution facility in St. Pauls, North Carolina Website https://www.pepsibottlingventures.com/ Primary CSR Activities To Create Harmony with Customers and Partners -Products and Services■Quality Initiatives Quality management To maximize quality control efforts and provide high-quality products, Pepsi Bottling Ventures (PBV) observes both the quality standards shared throughout the PepsiCo Group and the standards unique to PBV. We have also implemented AIB International's GMP Inspection system for food safety*1. Moreover, we have obtained the Global Food Safety Initiative (GFSI) FSSC-22000 audit scheme* 2 certifications for food safety. *1 A food safety system that stresses Good Manufacturing Practices (GMP), which are guidelines on practices that must be adopted in order to manufacture food that is safe. *2 Food Safety System Certification 22000 (FSSC-22000) GFSI Audit Scheme that combines the ISO22000 standard and the ISO/ TS22002 standard (formerly PAS-220) that specifies the requirements for prerequisite programs to assist in controlling food safety risks in food manufacturing processes. ■Relations with Customers Supporting healthy diets As one of many initiatives aimed at improving the nutritional balance of beverages in our customers' diets, PBV sells a variety of health drinks that contribute to the well-being of customers. Customers can also obtain information about the nutritional composition of our products from PepsiCo's website whenever they wish. 289 To Create Harmony with Nature -Environment■Environmental Efforts Water use optimization As the key ingredient in our produc ts, using water responsibly is critical in our manufacturing facilities. Our highly sophisticated reverse osmosis water purification systems are designed to optimize purity and water conservation. Reject water from the RO systems and other manufacturing processes is utilized in secondary uses to maximize water conservation before discharge to sewer. PBV continues to invest in new water purification systems that reduce the gallons of water it uses to make a gallon of product while producing ingredient water that is high in quality. PBV achieved a water use ratio of 1.73 gallons of water/gallon of product produced in 2017. Newly installed water line in PBV's Winston-Salem production facility Adopting vehicles and a delivery system that contribute to energy conservation and CO2 reduction In 2011 PBV was the first Pepsi bottler in the USA to install an automated order picking system using CooLift pallets in combination with specialized lift gate trailers. The system reduces delivery time and improves ergonomics for delivery personnel. Delivery routes are dynamically routed daily to reduce travel time and fuel consumption. Hybrid and fuel efficient vehicles continue to grow and now make up 50% of our sales support fleet. Hybrid sedan used Delivery trucks staged at distribution facility in by PBV's sales team St. Pauls, North Carolina Manufacturing Bottles at point of use Reduce In 2012 PBV eliminated the practice of purchasing and transporting PET bottles and started manufacturing them at our two largest manufacturing plants in North Carolina. The in-house manufacturing and labeling allowed PBV to reduce the incoming truck deliveries of packaging materials by 11 to 1. The self-manufacturing process allows PBV to reduce our PET bottle weights on average by 20% and our new bottles incorporate 10% recycled plastic. Additionally PBV's new manufacturing equipment is 20% more Preform materials before energy efficient than the old systems used before self-manufacturing. entering the bottling process Plastic Cases & Pallets Reuse & Recycle Thirty-one percent of PBV products are delivered in multiuse plastic cases and pallets. This packaging lasts for years and eliminates corrugated board and wood from landfills. Damaged units are returned to the manufacturer and are recycled for manufacture of new cases and pallets. PBV also uses recyclable shrink film on other products to reduce secondary packaging. Distribution crates stored in Garner, North Carolina 290 Centralized Recycling Centers Recycle PBV manufacturing facilities act as centralized recycling centers. Corrugated board, stretch film, metal, and PET are collected and transported to these centralized facilities. Out-of-date product returned from customers is crushed and the recycled packaging is sold. Additionally our fleet garages recycle old vehicles, waste oil, batteries, and tires. As a result, PBV achieved a recycle rate of 90% of its total waste in 2018. Recycling bales ready for shipment from Garner Recycling bales entering production process at Unifi warehouse distribution facility PBV partners with Unifi for the processing of recycling materials To Create Harmony with Society -Cultural and Social Contribution■Relations with the Local Community Support for areas affected by natural disaster PBV supplied bottled water to the victims of the Hurricane Florence and Tropical Storm Michael and provided significant financial assistance to relief organizations such as the Red Cross. Activities rooted in the local community Specialty truck wrap promoting the PBV/Kay Yow Cancer Fund partnership Land Conservation Designed to Protect the Water Quality of the upstream region of the Neuse River The PBV headquarters factory is located in Upper Neuse River region in central North Carolina. Upper Neuse River region provide utility water and drinking water to 300,000 residents and many local businesses and organizations. The population in the Upper Neuse River region is rapidly increasing, which makes it extremely important to the health, economics, and quality of life of the people that there is a plentiful supply of clean drinking water in the region. Therefore, our company cooperates with forest preservation organizations, local government and land owners through the Upper Neuse Clean Water Initiative to preserving the soil to protect water quality of the river since 2005. We also engage in initiatives to improve the water quality such through removing foreign species and bring back the habitat of native species. 291 Upstream region of the Neuse River Members of the North Carolina Youth Conservation Corps, a summer program which is supported through PBV's annual donation to the Conservation Trust of North Carolina To Create Harmony with Employees -Diversity Management■Relations with Employees Creating a healthy and lively workplace To maintain employee health, our Safety and Health Department previously called the Safety and Loss Prevention Department administers and provides guidance on how to become a healthier workforce. All of our employees are encouraged to have annual physical examinations. We provide annual influenza vaccinations free of charge for employees and spouses. Annual Safety Day events occur at selected facilities, where we bring in local hospital and wellness professionals to instruct on such topics as proper hydration and heart health. Automated External Defibrillators have been installed at all facilities and training is provided to selected employees on Basic First Aid and CPR. Fresh Fruit Friday is held once a month in all facilities, to promote healthy breakfast and snack choices. Fresh Fruit Friday at Pepsi In addition, to ensure the overall organizational health, we conduct employee opinion Bottling Ventures surveys every other year. This allows the views of employees to be heard and creates a venue for discussions and changes to take place in our organization. 292 Biometric testing has taken place at selected facilities based on employee population. Screenings help provide our employees with the knowledge and awareness of their current health and well-being. Employees are encouraged to participate, so they may have a better understanding of their health status, and consulate a primary care physician if results need to be modified. Preventive wellness has always been a primary focus of PBV, especially when it comes to the health and safety of our employees. Biometric screening with employees Marketing materials encouraging healthy lifestyles for PBV employees The Industrial Athlete Program has meet with great success across our Eastern Division. Similar to several other companies that have produced a program (UPS, Boeing, Volkswagen, to name a few) PBV has incorporated this program to reduce the risk of injuries to our employees on the job. Stretching, physical therapy self-massage techniques for pain management, and proper ergonomic lifting techniques while handling product, are some of the key components of this program. Stretch for Success ; Work Smarter NOT Harder . Biometric screening with employees Marketing materials encouraging healthy lifestyles for PBV employees Workplace safety is something PBV takes very seriously. In order to keep Safety First , we schedule Safety Day events at many of our facilities. Activities during a safety day range from instructor lead training (Highway Patrol) to hand-on exercises (fire extinguisher demonstrations, forklift rodeo etc...). Conducting Safety Day events are a fun way to teach workers best practices for a productive and safe work environment. 293 Suntory Beverage & Food Asia 18 Cross Street, #12-01/08, Cross Street Exchange, Head Office Singapore 048423 SBFA, a fully owned subsidiary of Suntory Beverage and Food Ltd., is the Asia headquarters managing 2 businesses Health Enrichment Business (operated Established by BRAND'S Suntory) and Beverage Business (Asia, Middle East & Sub-Saharan Africa), with many brands in leading positions in their respective national markets. Business Production and sales of Beverage and Health activities Enrichment products in Asia Website https://www.sbfapac.com/ Primary Sustainable Practices ■Sustainability Management SBFA's sustainability strategy At SBFA, we aim to be in harmony with nature and society to achieve long-term sustainable growth. It is our priority to accelerate sustainability management and contributions to local societies. We look towards Growing for Good with our people and our values. Whilst striving to deliver the highest quality products and services to our customers, we also make every effort to contribute to the fruitful development of culture, lifestyles and a global sustainable environment. SBFA believes in fostering valuable relationships with consumers, partners, employees and communities to achieve a sustainable balance between People, Planet & Profit. Code of Ethical Conduct SBFA has set high standards for corporate governance, as should any responsible company. We strive for transparency of corporate management strategy for our stakeholders. We fully comply with corporate governance laws, and our business is guided by a Management Team with diverse and extensive business experience. In line with our Anti-Bribery & Corruption and Conflict of Interest Policies, all employees went through a training session to help them understand the importance of accountability in their actions. The policies serve as a guidance for our employees in terms of day-to-day decision making. 294 Quality Assurance SBFA established its Group Quality & Regulatory Affairs department as part of our efforts to become a best practice company. The mission of the department is to offer the best products and services, compliant with relevant laws and regulations, to our customers and consumers throughout the entire product value chain: from research, planning, development, procurement, registration, production, distribution, sales until the moment of consumption. This is in line with SBFA's company promise, mission and vision, and guided by principles, policies and standards for ensuring consistency across the group. These principles, policies and standards focus on the following areas: Customer Focus Enhanced Innovation Risk Management Essence of Lean, Clean & Green Brand Image & Reputation Protection Ownership, Shared Responsibility & Accountability Strategic Partnership Working together with the various functions and management levels of the supply chain, the Group Quality & Regulatory Affairs department enacts mechanisms and structures related to quality management. This helps to ensure crossfunctional quality excellence throughout the Group, for better organization and quality management. To Create Harmony with Customers and Partners -Products and Services■Relations with Customers Keeping Customers Safe BRAND'S Suntory Thailand (BSTL) partnered with Thai Highway Police on the Don't Drive Drowsy, Rest and Drink BRAND'S campaign for more than 12 years with an aim to help reduce car accidents during the year-end festive season. It is a peak period where many Thais travel home from Bangkok and have to be on the road for long hours to reach their respective provinces. There are also many who are driving to other parts of Thailand to enjoy their long holiday. Unfortunately, these led to many unfortunate car accidents. In a bid to help drivers stay alert and be more aware of their surroundings when they are behind the wheel, BSTL has been distributing BRAND'S Essence of Chicken to the provincial highway police stations and their respective checkpoints during the festive period. When drivers experience tiredness while they are on the road, they are encouraged to make a stopover at the checkpoints, do some stretching to relax and drink a bottle of BRAND'S Essence of Chicken, which are readily available at these checkpoints and retail stores in partner gas stations. BSTL is proud to be a part of a meaningful initiative to build awareness for safe driving and help keep our roads safer. 295 Customer Intimacy Goes Digital The way people communicate and speak to one another has changed vastly in recent years. This has prompted us to adopt a fresh look at the way we interact with customers, as well as in the way we market our brand and products. We are gradually moving from traditional media-led campaigns to focus more on digital marketing channels in order to reach out to a new generation of customers who are constantly connected. We are excited by the prospects of how digital convergence can help propel us further in our quest to be closer to consumers. We will continue to seize the opportunities to transform the way we interact with our consumers by opening up data access and analysis, using the power of digital technology to keep ahead in today's consumers' lifestyles. Leveraging on the strength of our digital marketing capabilities, we will continue to engage customers while maintaining relevance to their lives. This will build brand loyalty and drive sustainable business growth. Customers wowed by the first-ever 3D Augmented Reality Interactive games Relations with Business Partners As SBFA progresses in its CSR journey, it is our intention to work with our business partners to ensure that they fulfill their social responsibilities with regard to human rights, labor standards, environmental sustainability and other issues. This will help to ensure not only that SBFA's business processes are sustainable, but also that our business partners' processes are sustainable. A regional purchasing policy was also developed and applied, ensuring that business units have a fixed set of guidelines to abide by in terms of purchasing transactions and selecting vendors. To Create Harmony with Nature -Environment■Environmental Efforts International Certifications SBFA has twenty-two plants in twelve countries, and most have attained ISO14001 (environmental management systems) and ISO22000 (Food Safety Management System) certification. Particularly for our newest plants built in Vietnam, Thailand and Malaysia, environmentally friendly mechanisms were incorporated from the design stage and are utilized in the plants' operation. We are currently in the process of obtaining ISO14001, OHSAS18001 (Occupational Health and Safety Management Systems) certifications for all of our operations in Asia. Our goal is to continue with good environmental management and making continuous improvements in the future. 296 Sustainable Operations at Our Environmentally Friendly Plants The latest plant in Vietnam was opened in June 2017, designed with a 2E philosophy Environmental Friendly and Employee Motivation. In terms of environmental friendliness, the plant sets a new benchmark for waste water treatment, where at least 70% of the water used in production is treated before being discharged. Apart from using LED lighting for the entire factory, the hot water systems in the locker rooms and canteen are also powered by solar energy. Additionally, the plant design has also taken employees' needs into consideration, where a modern and professional workspace was created to enable effective communications and enhance efficiency. The plant also boasts a central library fitted with technical documents and soft skills books where employees can tuck themselves in the reading corners during their break times. Two other plants in Thailand and Malaysia, which opened in 2010, were designed to be environmentally friendly and energy efficient. Some of their features include solar cells, energy efficient lighting, natural lighting, low-energy utility systems for boiler and cooler management, and reuse of production line water for sanitary systems. These plants meet international standards, including GMP (process design), ISO9001 (quality management systems), and ISO14001 as well as ISO22000 (Food Safety management system). Our Thai plant has also received OHSAS 18001 certification. We at SBFA pledge to continue working toward reducing our environmental impact and to grow with local communities for a sustainable future. Our new plant in Quang Nam Province, Bird's Nest bottling in one of our Thailand Vietnam plants Developing the Next Generation Through Lessons from Nature BRAND'S ® Junior team in Thailand teamed up with the Environmental Education Centre (EEC) Thailand to organize a camping program with the aim to promote awareness of nature and environment through science. With practices and experiments, the young participants were guided to explore nature. The program involved water conservation activities where participants were taught how to observe invertebrates to determine water quality, and went on an adventure trail to learn about various vegetation and animals who call the forest their home. They also took part in a field study on water resource management. The camp not only embraced Suntory's Sustainable Water Philosophy, but also helped pave the way for children to achieve holistic development including problem solving and confidence building. Children took part in water conservation activities at the camp 297 Waste Reduction Program SBFA's HQ in Singapore introduced its waste reduction and recycling program in 2010 and has successfully recycled more than 10.4 tonnes of paper and 2.97 tonnes of glass. On the 5th year anniversary of the establishment of the SBFA Recycling Initiative, we further improved our environmental efforts in the office with the rededication of our office recycling initiative. A new segregated waste system, consisting of 3 categories Paper, Plastic and Glass, has been introduced. Newly designed, colour-coded signs are attached to the bins for easy identification and segregation. 2030kg of paper, plastic and glass were recycled since the rededication of the program in Q4 2015. Following the successful introduction of waste reduction and recycling programs in our Singapore office, we have extended the program to Taiwan. All Taiwan staff are encouraged to adopt a green lifestyle starting from their daily activities, such as unplugging of switches, printing on double sides, adjusting the temperature of air-conditioners and many more. The message was to get every staff to understand that they can make a difference to the environment and Earth through small combined efforts and all these can be achieved through the lifting of a finger. The program has been very successful and staff also receives monthly green tips to remind them to continue doing their part for the environment. To Create Harmony with Society -Cultural and Social Contribution■Relations with the Local Community Contributions Rooted in the Local Community Contributing to the local community is an important success factor for SBFA. To succeed as a company that is socially trusted, we are always looking for innovative and meaningful ways to contribute to a better life for our employees, their families, and those who are less fortunate. We contribute in a wide range of fields including health, education, sports, and the arts. Supporting Local Causes BRAND'S Suntory Thailand encouraged the citizens of Thailand to support the Children Cancer Foundation, which was established by the Quality Mother Foundation under the patronage of Her Royal Highness Princess Soamsawali, at BRAND'S ® Bird's Nest Mother's Day campaign. This campaign encourages everyone to donate directly to the Children Cancer Fund this reflects an understanding that children are the future of the nation and should be given every opportunity to receive treatments, recover fully, and lead a normal life. BRAND'S ® also produced a television commercial that tells the story of a girl who battled with leukemia and her mother who donated her bone marrow to her. 298 Letting Dreams Take Flight BRAND'S Suntory Helps Taiwanese Children Unlock Potential BRAND'S Suntory Taiwan launched its Unlocking Potential initiative, which comprises a two-pronged approach: a school-based Potential of Creativity program and a nationwide Hope in a Bottle program. The goal of the initiative is to make a positive difference in the lives of some of Taiwan's most overlooked but deserving children, helping them to unlock their physical, emotional and intellectual potential, and achieve their dreams. The Potential of Creativity program brings ar ts and creativity focused Participants of the Hope in a Bottle program curriculums to needy and academically underachieving schools in Taiwan. Staff volunteers also join students, on a weekly basis, for day-long creativity programs that explore local and culturally relevant colors, motifs and architectural styles, integrating these local themes into individual student art projects and large-scale community art projects. The Hope in a Bottle program is a nationwide program that encourages individuals or groups of students to dream big , asking them to submit proposals describing their plans to make a meaning ful impact in their communities. BRAND'S Suntory Taiwan provided grants and guidance from BRAND'S Suntory's Hope Coaches and Hope Team volunteers help students from winning teams make their projects and dreams a success. By focusing on the needs of the next generation, the initiative demonstrates our long-term commitment to creating sustainable and thriving communities in Taiwan. Exemplary CSR SBFA's CSR activities have an excellent reputation in Asia. We recently received accolade which was the Excellent Stakeholder and Partnership Award from the Health Sciences Authority of Singapore. SBFA was also awarded the Leading HR Practices Award in Corporate Social Responsibility from the Singapore Human Resource Institute. SBFA has developed a close partnership with United Nations Global Compact Network Singapore (GCNS) and their local networks in Asia. SBFA has slowly established itself as a thought leader in CSR and featured prominently in the annual summits organized by GCNS. Most recently, SBFA was invited to speak at a panel in ASEAN CSR Network's Regional Business Integrity Conference, further reiterating our status as good corporate citizens in Asia. SBFA released its inaugural sustainability report in 2015, which broadly describes the activities which the group has participated in recent years, as well as the ef for ts taken by the group on the path to a sustainable org a niz at ion. Cerebos (now known a s BR A ND' S Suntor y A sia ) wa s acknowledged as one of the finalists for Asia's Best First Time Sustainability Report in the Asia Sustainability Reporting Awards 2015. 299 Developing CSR Activities Region Wide In November 2016, SBFA conducted their first ever group charity sales drive around the region. With SBFA HQ in Singapore leading the pack, other subsidiary business units in the region have also conducted their respective Charity Sales events to contribute to their local communities. Offices in Hong Kong, Indonesia, Malaysia, Taiwan, Thailand and Vietnam have adopted their own charitable organizations which ranged from various children's causes to food banks in line with our corporate vision of Growing for Good . SBFA is involved in long-term volunteer activities, such as the BRAND'S ® Summer Camp in Thailand (supporting over 50,000 students for their college entrance exams for more than 25 years). This initiative has since spread to Yangon, capital of Myanmar as BRAND'S ® Brain Study Camp in 2014, and has helped students achieve distinctions in their matriculation examinations. Additionally, colleagues in Singapore celebrated Christmas in a meaningful way by inviting 100 needy children to join in their Christmas Party and have their Christmas wishes fulfilled. In addition to buying gifts for the children, staff and the children attending shared in the Christmas spirit with special programs and activities. Finally, staff volunteers took part in the large-scale cooking and delivery of 4,000 meal packets for less-privileged households in Singapore. BRAND'S ® Summer Camp in Thailand SBFA Christmas Party with children from The Straits Times School Pocket Money Fund SBFA colleagues participate BRAND'S ® Brain Study Camp in Myanmar in Willing Hearts event to cook and deliver lunch for the needy BRAND'S Suntory Taiwan launched the Charity Health Check-up and Healthy Diet Education program in 2017 by funding 5 groups of medical care services organized by medical students. 500 disadvantaged children from the remote countryside benefited from the program through health check-ups and medical inquiry services. Employees also volunteered to educate the children on the importance of a healthy diet and provided BRAND'S ® Essence of Chicken as a nutritional aide. Children from remote areas benefits from BRAND’S Suntory Taiwan’s initiative 300 Other Activities Singapore BRAND'S ® partnered with World Vision International, a NGO that offer development aid and emergency humanitarian support, on a Drink BRAND'S ® Essence of Chicken and Donate charity drive during the BRAND'S ® Funival. Shoppers were encouraged to purchase a bottle of BRAND'S ® Essence of Chicken at S$1 and to drink on the spot for a good cause. More than S$2,000 was raised and donated to fund the training and exposure of World Vision's youth ambassadors who will be actively involved in advocating and raising awareness on global poverty issues ® BRAND'S cap collection raises funds for affecting vulnerable children. World Vision International Malaysia The Smart Achievers Campaign in Malaysia rewards students who excel in both studies and co-curricular activities. We also organized a Charity Warehouse Sales, as well as a BRAND'S ® 14 Day Campaign roadshow to encourage the public to donate and aid in disaster relief efforts. The STSPMF Corporate Charity and ChildAid Asia Concerts SBFA has worked with the Straits Times School Pocket Money Fund (STSPMF), a charity fund, since it was established in 2000. The STSPMF seeks to increase public awareness that many low-income families must send their children to school without the necessary school supplies. The STSPMF provides about 11,000 children annually with financial assistance for school meals, bus commutes, and school supplies. The amount of financial support has reached more than 140,000 students, disbursing approximately SGD 5.2 million as of 2015. SBFA has supported ChildAid since 2005. SBFA is also a long-time supporter of ChildAid, which is one of Singapore's biggest annual children's charity concerts organized by The Straits Times and The Business Times since 2005. It is in aid of STSPMF and The Business Times Budding Artists Fund, which provides them with structured arts training and the opportunity to develop their artistic talents. The success of ChildAid also inspired similar concerts in Asia, namely Tokyo, Kuala Lumpur and Jakarta, where children raise funds for less privileged children through musical and dance performances. SBFA is also proud to be a major supporter of affiliated ChildAid concerts in the region, and has helped numerous children develop their artistic talent. ■World Vision International BRAND'S ® focused on Making a Positive Difference in all its markets across Asia by helping under-privileged children. To do this, it partnered with World Vision International to raise S$180,000 and sponsored 180 children regionally. All funds raised was channeled to the respective local World Vision beneficiaries. Depending on each community's needs, a sponsored child and his or her community benefitted from clean water, better education through sponsorship of school fees and supplies, better equipped schools and teacher training, improved nutrition, as well as health care. SBFA employees with World Vision beneficiaries in Bo Kluea, Thailand 301 To Create Harmony with Employees -Diversity Management■Relations with Employees We believe that all businesses require talent to grow. SBFA demands spirited leadership at all levels, and aims to be the most exciting company, the best learning organization, the most engaged company and the best paid company. Product Innovation, Research & Development, and Customer Intimacy (through digital innovation) will help to drive this vision. With consistent efforts put in to ensure the vision was achieved, SBFA has also developed a Grow from Within (GfW) strategy, which will help achieve this vision by recognizing and unlocking the potential of SBFA employees, empowering them to make strategic decisions to propel SBFA's growth. In line with this goal, GfW comprises key initiatives to challenge and empower talent within SBFA. Developing People Heart of Performance A fundamental part of the GfW strategy, this initiative aims to equip all supervisory SBFA staff with the skills to groom leaders from within, using a coaching approach that targets both heart and mind. SBFA leaders recognize which skills need to be groomed in our managers. The program will give them the further toolsets needed to coach these skills. Specifically designed to support line managers and senior and top management in achieving more effective, honest and challenging conversations, the Heart of Performance initiative will build a coaching culture to support performance and leadership development. Developing People SBFA Leadership Development Program (LDP) The LDP focuses on middle management, who are our future leaders and growth champions. These members will be instrumental in building sustainable business for SBFA. The program includes a partnership with the prestigious National University of Singapore (Quacquarelli Symonds World University Ranking system has ranked NUS as the top university in Asia for 2019). This partnership allows us to customize a leadership development program for leaders that spans five months. Leadership competencies and strategic priorities form the cornerstone of the LDP. The LDP also ensures that learning is meaningful and relevant to participants. Developing People SBFA Supply Chain Leadership Development Recognizing that Supply Chain is an important part of our business, SBFA started working together with Singapore Management University in 2018 to customize a 5-day intensive Supply Chain Leadership Development program for participants to learn about supply chain topics like risk management, sustainability, data analytics and digitization. Participants from the region were asked to design Suntory's Supply Chain strategy for the next 10 years, and also work as a team on actual projects, in which their proposals were presented to Senior Management in a day-long Pressure Cooker Challenge. The program addresses challenges and opportunities in SBFA's supply chain and aims to identify the next generation of Supply Chain leaders in SBFA. Supporting Employees' Personal and Professional Growth SBFA supports our employees' personal and professional growth because we feel this is the best way not only to create value but also to attain our vision of becoming the leading health enrichment and food enterprise in the Asia Pacific region. Over the years, the company has established platforms and mechanisms to connect with and listen to employees. SBFA conducts employee engagement surveys, bi-annual Town Hall Meetings and management dialogues. In all the platforms, employees have the opportunity to raise questions and share their thoughts on any issues they are concerned with. Opportunities such as these allow employees to be up close and personal with members of the leadership team, and go a long way toward engaging and motivating employees. 302 Supporting Employee Volunteerism SBFA's employees incorporate contributions to society and elements of our sustainability strategy into all aspects of their workplace and their lifestyles. We established a Quality Work-life Committee in which representatives from each department plans innovative and interesting activities that meet the varied interests of our employees. These include many community involvement and volunteerism activities such as helping out in soup kitchens and buying school books and stationery for needy children. SBFA also provides its employees with opportunity to donate their time. In Singapore, employees are able to use their Volunteer Leave to contribute time to any charitable organization. Contributing to Society Through Healthy Activities In 2019, as part of the Global One Suntory Walk event spearheaded by Suntory Holdings, SBFA partnered with Beam Suntory International and Suntory F&B International to organize a One Suntory Active Day in Singapore. This is the 1st time the 3 companies came together for an event where every step they take will contribute to a positive impact for the environment as One Suntory. In 2015, BRAND'S Suntory Asia makes the Top 50 list for Outstanding Work-Life Strategies in a book published by the Tripartite Alliance for Fair & Progressive Employment Practices (TAFEP). Progressive workplace practices have enabled a wider pool of employees to contribute productively to their workplaces, while maintaining a healthy, active, and balanced personal life. s BRAND'S Suntory Asia was featured in the Play section of the book, which focuses on organizations that have encouraged their staff to get actively involved in recreational activities or volunteer work. BRAND'S Suntory Asia also won the Best Company for Mums SG50 Special Award organized by the National Trades Union Congress (NTUC), Women's Development Secretariat (WDS), and Tripartite Alliance for Fair & Progressive Employment Practices (TAFEP). This exclusive award gives recognition to companies who have developed exemplary flexible work-life benefits -beyond statutory requirementsto support their employees at various stages of their lives and careers. 303 PT Suntory Garuda Beverage South Quarter Tower C, 3rd floor. Jalan R.A. Kartini Head Office Kav.8. Cilandak Barat. Jakarta Selatan 12430. Indonesia Established July 2011 Business Production and sales of non-alcoholic beverages activities Growing for Good sustainable growth with purpose We will grow to become a company that always benefits it's community. By doing good things for society and the environment, we will help make a better, brighter future Harmony with Consumers ■Provide safe, reliable and high quality products. Okky is brand beloved by millions of Indonesian children and teenagers. Since 2003, it has also been sold as a jelly drink, combining bold fruit flavors with nata de coco, a jelly made of naturally preserved coconut water. The launch of Okky Jelly Drink revitalized the Okky brand and created a new product category that was fun to consume, as well as being a handy way to stave off hunger between meals. With a majority share of the dessert gel market in Indonesia, Okky Jelly Drink is now seen as a triumph of forward thinking and quality in manufacturing. Okky Jelly Drink contains jelly powder and nata de coco, both natural ingredients that must be carefully sourced. The quality of both ingredients is affected by the weather and season, so they require careful handling during the storage and cooking process to maintain consistency of quality, texture and taste. Every Okky cup passes through SGB's rigorous quality-control processes. These cover every step from sourcing ingredients and packaging materials to product-handling, production and storage, with every individual at every stage empowered by Suntory's All for the Quality mission. 304 ■Innovation: Pursue cost efficiency in entire value chain, optimized and innovate production. Af ter building and encouraging a culture of assessment and continuous improvement, where decisions and new initiatives were carried out based on data, statistics, and analysis, in 2020, SGB management launched Gemba Kaizen to be implemented across all functions in the factory, focused on cost saving and efficiency by eliminating WASTE and developing basic behavior of Lean thinking in all our employees, with the LENS of the Customer Perspective and Productivity. Gemba Kaizen are Japanese concepts designed for enhancing processes and eliminating WASTE, thus become a great model for sustainability enhancement. ■Fun and refreshing: Create new value with unique, premium, natural and healthy products. With temperatures hovering at tropical levels all year round, it is perhaps unsurprising that the Indonesian beverage market is made up of nearly 50% bottled water. Younger Indonesians are increasingly experimenting with flavored waters, which provide essential hydration for the body and are complemented by natural fruit flavors. In 2016, Suntory Garuda Beverages (SGB) identified this as a key market trend and began developing Good Mood, now Indonesia's leading flavored bottled water, utilizing technology and expertise from its partner Suntory in Japan. Available in orange, lemon and honey, strawberr y, blackcurrant and yoghur t flavors, Good Mood contains no preservatives, artificial colors or sweeteners, making it a more natural alternative to most other soft drinks. The final product is packaged in an easy-to-grip PET bottle that appeals to consumers on the go. To announce the launch of the product, a series of well-received television commercials highlighted the positive mood changes made possible by adding a burst of natural fruit flavor to your day. The R&D team at SGB have found that Indonesian consumers appreciate such product innovations that enable them to adjust to more health-conscious trends in society. Good Mood also reflects the proud Suntory tradition of not only developing new beverage products, but also creating new lifestyles around beverage consumption. Harmony with Nature Less and better packaging Less waste Respect and conserve water ■Less and better packaging: World's lightest hot-fill PET bottles Nitro-Hot Fill is the most recent technology implemented in the Suntory Group with SGB as the first business unit to do so in the PET Bottle production process. Nitro hot-fill is a concrete step for Mizu To Ikiru which reduces plastic load from 23 grams to 17 grams making SGB PET bottles for MyTea and Good Mood products become the lightest hot-fill PET bottles in the world. Nitro hot-fill maintains quality of the products, while keep packaging remains environmentally friendly because it is light and easily recycled. 305 ■Less waste: Education on Waste Management Supported by the local government in South Sulawesi and in collaboration with one of environmental NGO and plastic waste recycling organizations, in October 2019 SGB developed Mizuiku module and share education on waste management as our efforts to keep the water clean. When sorted and collected, plastic waste has a used value, can be recycled so it does not pollute the environment. For organic waste management, SGB invites children to make biopori holes in the school yard. As for the management of plastic waste, SGB provides schools with special plastic packaging waste drop boxes and coordinates the collection of plastic waste with periodic pickups. This initiative provides tangible support for the Government's program to maximize waste banks, especially those in the school environment. The plastic waste collected is then cleaned and taken to a recycling center. ■Respect and conserve water: Water Sustainability and Vulnerability Assessment (SVA) Production process at SGB begins by select and purify clean water. Water is taken through a standardized process from the best clean water sources. In collaboration with a hydrogeologist from one of well-known university in Indonesia, SGB conducted systematic review of Water Sustainability and Vulnerability Assessment (SVA) in eight areas in Indonesia where production facilities operate. The findings are discussed in light of a holistic approach to water resources management, and specifically integrated water resources management. Significant opportunities exist to enhance the efficacy of water vulnerability assessment by incorporating indicators and operational measures for social considerations (e.g., adaptation, institutions, governance) that are developed outside the context of water. SVA produces accurate data on upstream or water catchment areas. This area is very important to be protected and conserved for water sustainability. One of the way is through planting trees or building conservation ponds where the springs are collected and then distributed to residential areas as needed. SGB realize that another improvement essential to the sustainability of the environment is the planting of trees, both to relieve the global shortage of trees, important sources of oxygen and water, and to reduce the effects of global warming. Internally, SGB are consistently working on wastewater treatment equipment in our manufacturing facility, in addition to choosing and modifying equipment with lower water consumption as well as implementing a water reuse plan and setting goals for such reuse and waste water treatment. 306 Harmony with Society Support and empowering communities Purposeful brands Develop young talent ■Support and empowering communities SGB shares the same mission as Suntory, our parent company, to Create Harmony with People and Nature as well as Suntory's founding spirit of“Giving back to Society”and considers it our great mission to hand down a sustainable society to the next generation. With support from Suntory Group, SGB joined hands to support the victims of the Lampung, Palu and Anyer earthquakes and tsunamis. The very kind support was very much appreciated to assist in programs for the residents of these areas to recover from these disasters. Donations were provided in the form of financial support, Suntory products and educational scholarships for employees, distributors, suppliers, sales depot, refugees and children from families affected by the earthquake and tsunami. Besides, donations were also channeled in collaboration with several Government institutions such as the Ministry of Industry and other government agencies. By end of 2019, first Suntory Temporary Learning Space (TLS) officially opened. We are so happy that we managed to give a smile to at least 150 children aged 6-12 years who can return to study in a proper room, with tables and chairs, learning equipment, games and even child-friendly sanitation facilities. Meanwhile, the first day in 2020 opened with floods and landslides that hit Jakarta and surrounding areas, including Depok, Bekasi, Tangerang and Banten. More than 173,000 residents were forced to flee with heavy losses due to vehicles, homes, schools and bridges washed away by the torrents of flash floods. In addition to providing assistance to a number of employees whose homes were affected by floods, SGB started a fund-raising campaign to help victims of floods and landslides. Some affected areas get help quickly, both from the Government and the private sector. But there are areas that, due to lack of access to publications, have not yet received the help they need. One of them is in Lebak Regency, Banten Province, which suffered from flash floods and landslides. The SGB team left for the disaster site and provided assistance in the form of carpet replacement for flooded mosques, shoe packages and school bags, boots for local Indonesian Red Cross volunteers, lighting, and free medical treatment for hundreds elementary student. We hope that these provisions will bring some levels of comfort during this difficult time. 307 ■Purposeful brand: Mizuiku water education As a proud member of the Suntory Group, SGB places importance on sustainability of water, which is the source of our business as well as a precious resource supporting human life. In February 2019, SGB start pilot program of Suntory Mizuiku which teaches younger generations the importance of clean water and conserving water resources. As the first phase in 2019/2020, Mizuiku targets water education for 2,500 elementary school children aged between 10 and 11 years and teachers, in five regions including Gowa (South Sulawesi), Banjarbaru (South Kalimantan), Tangerang (Banten), Sidoarjo (Java East) and DKI Jakarta. Mizuiku program is unique to Suntory and was designed to help the next generation to realize not just the beauty of nature and importance of water, but also to think about what they can do to preserve our water resources for the future. The Mizuiku module includes learning carried out both indoors and outdoors to give students the opportunity to explore all aspects of clean water conservation. Learning is done through interactive discussions, games, songs and dances as well as practice in the field that is designed so that they are motivated to preserve clean water. The module can be modified into one session or several sessions according to the needs in a very varied field. Mizuiku also covers simple practices on how to preserve clean water, such as through reforestation, water filtration and the use of biopores. Mizuiku also includes a factory tour to one of SGB's plants to see how water is reused and how waste water is treated. In addition, we are contributing to the installation or renovation of toilets and washrooms at elementary schools to improve sanitation for children. In addition, waste is a major problem that pollutes clean water. Plastic waste has a use value if properly managed. Therefore, Mizuiku took a concrete step by providing education on sorting plastic waste to 2,000 elementary school children, followed by waste collection and recycling activities in order to ensure that we keep our water sources clean. In the meantime, this extension of the Mizuiku program is concentrated in the cities of Gowa and Makassar. SGB will continue to strive to enrich our customers' lives by developing innovative new products, sharing our values, bringing benefits to our employees and business partners, and contributing to the communities in which we do business. 308 ■Develop young talent: OKKY Youth Soccer League, Factory Visit and Career Talk OKKY Youth Soccer League (OYSL) was initiated by the OKKY brand of PT. Suntory Garuda Beverage together with the Indonesian Junior Soccer League (IJSL) which aims to develop Indonesian children's soccer talent. OYSL always puts forward the importance of having games with fun and sportivity. More than being champions, children can make friends and play freely so they can show their best performance. OYSL 2017 is held in Jabodetabek, OYSL 2018 expands its coverage to 6 major cities in Java, so that the number of participating teams increases to 250 teams and wins 1st place in the 2018 Singa Cup. With enthusiasm and excitement, in 2019 for the second time the OKKY Youth Soccer Team successfully defended the 2019 Singa Cup (Singapore International Youth Cup) title. Positive contributions through the OKKY Youth Soccer League are expected to be able to make Indonesian children Not only become children who are reliable, smart and have good character but continue to grow in a cheerful and happy atmosphere so that in the future it is expected that Okky will be the biggest player contributor to the Indonesian national team. The support that is always provided by the Ministry of Youth and Sports strengthens the commitment of PT. Suntory Garuda Beverage to continue to carry out programs and concrete actions for the development of Indonesian football. SGB also opens opportunities for elementary to high school students as well as from universities to visit SGB production sites. They can learn and see directly on how their favorite products are made and how quality and environmental sustainability are being prioritize at SGB. In addition, collaborate with several well-known universities in Jakarta, we were honored to contribute to the growth of Indonesian future leaders through the University Relations Program (URP) and talk about careers, business trends and personal development. 309 Harmony with Employees ■Respect diversity At Suntory Garuda Beverage (SGB) in Indonesia, around 90% of employees are Muslims. During the Ramadan (fasting period for Muslims), in order to support the Muslim employees who are fast from sunrise to sunset, we implemented flexible working hours on a company-wide basis. We advanced work starting time as well as shortening lunch break, making it possible for employees to leave the office by 4:30 pm while maintaining the length of eight working hours. Even considering the traffic caused by commuters rushing home, this is made possible for everyone to be at home with their families by 6:00 p.m. when the fasting period finishes. In addition, we also hold joint iftar (breakfasting) activities, both for employees who work at headquarters and at production sites. Breakfasting gathering is more than just a chance for employees to gather, it creates harmonious, more focused and engaged teams. We are very grateful that together in SGB we celebrate the holy month that it's inspire and give us the desire, strength, as well as the determination to create harmony with people and nature. ■Yatte Minahare In Suntory, we always embrace the unknown. We always dare to question the status quo, take on new challenges, and never give up. We believe that courage is the key to great success, and that the future belongs to those that dream big. This spirit is embodied in our value, Yatte Minahare means dream big, take challenges, and never give up. It is our spirit of bold ambition. It was the saying of our founder, Shinjiro Torii, and it is now one of our core values. Yatte Minahare drives our bold ventures. With the power of these words, we dare to take on new challenges, question the status quo, and keep driving forward. SGB accentuates a one team spirit combining the strength of Japanese and Indonesian culture. That helps to create a high-discipline, target-oriented committed yet warm and fun corporate culture. At every step of the product's innovation, we always prioritize customer satisfaction. We are convinced our main strength lies in product quality and we never cease to evolve. Consumers are always happy to try something new. New products, new flavors, new marketing concepts, or new designs. This encourages us to stay creative and always bring new things to the market. Yatte Minahare taught us the importance of boldly taking on new challenges, dreaming big and never giving up. Internal and external obstacles are unavoidable, and there is always some doubt as to whether the timing is right and the strategy is the right one. We realized that the beverage industry is becoming more interesting and dynamic, so we tried a different approach and put even more focus on our customers' needs. Yatte Minahare * inspires us to always keep improving and always pursue the best for customers. SGB also organizes the Ambassador Program that brings every employee to know more about and explore Suntory's journey and how we together bring Yatte Minahare into life by persistently creating new values, producing the best products for the community and making a good contribution. 310 ■Fun and appreciation At SGB we work together with commitment, but we also don't forget to have fun and stay healthy. The company provides a variety of sports class choices such as futsal, basketball, badminton or gym and provides seminars and opportunities for regular health checks. Health talks enable our employees to learn about their health risks and adopt active / healthier lifestyle. We believe that health is the main factor that enables us to run to our vision. SGB employees training and development enables a highly skilled workforce. Relevant and interesting topic always accommodate into our learning class. We are convinced that well-managed training program helps in building an employee's understanding of the industry and equip them while encounter challenges in their work. From inspiring corner that share about leadership and success journey of many outstanding CEO to smartphone photography workshop, learning composting organic waste and fun vlog competition on how to save water and environment, SGB Employee Corner inspire employees engagement and experience. In SGB, we recognizing and awarding our employee and team that have shown consistent excellence performance, contribution to the category set-forth. Through Employee Recognition Award (ERA), employee are expected to be the true role model of SGB Values whereby they incorporate it in their ways of working. More than that, we also appreciate the talents and interests of every employee. SGB Got Talent surprisingly presents the extraordinary talent of all employees, from dancing, singing to other unique performances such as regional cultural attractions, modern beatboxes to interesting drama plays. 311 Suntory PepsiCo Vietnam Beverage Co., Ltd. Sheraton Saigon Hotel & Towers, 88 Dong Khoi Head Office Street, Ben Nghe Ward, District 1 Ho Chi Minh City, Vietnam Business Production and sales of non-alcoholic beverages activities Website https://www.suntorypepsico.vn/en Company Overview Suntory PepsiCo Vietnam Beverage Company (SPVB), is 100% owned by foreign capital, and is a strategic alliance between PepsiCo Inc. and Suntory Holdings Limited, which was officially formed in April 2013. Our headquarters is located on the 5th Floor, Sheraton Hotel, 88 Dong Khoi Street, District 1, Ho Chi Minh City. Our corporate values are Yatte Minahare and Giving back to society . In the future, we will continue to pursue sustainable development objectives, bring benefits to our employees and business partners, and contribute to the communities where we do business and operations. To Create Harmony with Customers and Partners -Products and Services-Quality assurance SPVB's quality and food safety policies are in accordance with standards set by the Suntory, PepsiCo, Pepsi Lipton groups and Vietnam Government. All company plants have FSSC 22000 certification. Additionally, the inspection related to the AIB International Consolidated Standards is carried out at all sites and special tools are provided to our sales teams to help them communicate information on quality to our customers. ■Relationship with the Customers Customer outreach Customer satisfaction is a first priority, and hotlines are in place to solicit customers' feedback and requests. Feedback is an essential part of our qualitative research, which is used to improve services, fine-tune marketing and increase satisfaction. In the recent years, SPVB Sales team has come up with the conclusion that the sales volumes would increase proportionally if consumers found the store displays appealing. This idea was after rolled out to on-site execution that one of our DCR's KPIs was actually to neatly arrange the products in the visi-coolers and on racks with SPVB's must-have products. Our DCR team was also required to ensure that the products are promoted by using posters and other display materials. 312 Contributing to consumer health SPVB beverage portfolio in this market includes a diverse set of exciting beverages such as Pepsi, 7-Up, Mountain Dew, Sting, Mirinda, Aquafina Lipton, Revive, Tropicana, Twister and Tea Plus. We take our responsibility to improve the nutritional quality of our portfolio very seriously, and we are on a continual journey to transform our product portfolio to provide Vietnamese consumers which more nutritious beverage choices, for example, Oolong TEA Plus, which prevents fat absorption. TEA+ Oolong Tea TEA+ Oolong Tea was released in 2013 in Vietnam, starting a new segmentation of tea in Vietnam. This tea is made using the technologies we cultivated while developing Suntory Oolong Tea, a product that has been popular in Japan for more than 30 years. With a refreshing and delicious taste, TEA+ Oolong contains OTPP, a natural ingredient extracted from oolong tea leaves that assists in the suppression of fat absorption. By extracting and maximizing the OTPP in oolong tea leaves, TEA+ offers consumers a healthier lifestyle, while maintaining the delicious taste and floral notes that come from oolong tea. After 6 years since the launching, TEA+ has now achieved outstanding result No.1 in HCMC, No.1 in Modern Traded and hopefully aiming South leadership in next 2 years TEA+ Oolong Lemon TEA+ Oolong Lemon is a unique combination of oolong tea and delicious lemon flavor, launched in 2018 as the first of its kind in the Vietnam market. The special point about this product is that it brings not only refreshment and delicious flavor from the familiar lemon taste but also a healthier lifestyle by assisting in the suppression of fat absorption, thanks to the OTPP ingredient of oolong tea. This tea is made by using the technologies we cultivated while developing Suntory Oolong Tea-a product that has been popular in Japan for more than 30 years and is now the No. 1 bottled oolong tea brand* in Japan. (*2017 Euromonitor, brand shares of off-trade RTD tea in Japan, volume) TEA+ Oolong No Sugar Anticipating that Health & Wellness is now trending in Vietnam as Vietnamese consumers tend to reduce sugar intaking, TEA+ had launched Oolong No Sugar in 2019 to one-step-ahead capture this movement. This new variant is the combination of many goodness: TEA+ Oolong OTPP prevention of fat absorption, authentic Oolong tea flavorful & aromatic sensation and sugar-free. Beyond this, TEA+ Oolong No Sugar with its premium mood & tone also reinforces TEA+ brand attributes in term Japanese-ness, Expertise & Good for Health. This new variant is now widely available in all Modern Trade channel across the country. TEA+ Matcha TEA+ Matcha is a new TEA+ product that was launched in 2016 in Vietnam. With an authentic tea taste, and Theanine extracted by our advanced technology, TEA+ Matcha allows the drinker to enjoy relaxation and refreshment. We hope people can fully relax and enjoy their days with TEA+ Matcha. 313 ■Relationship with Business Partners Working with Business partners SPVB treats all partners with fairness and respect. Since this joint venture started, SPVB has a network of suppliers and partners who work tirelessly to face all ups and downs in business with us. The relation with SPVB and some partners dated back to 25 years ago, when PepsiCo first started its operations in Vietnam. SPVB's at its position today thanks to its partners' contribution and collaboration. To Create Harmony with Nature -Environment■Environment Environmental management All SPVB plants and have acquired ISO14001 certification and fully complied with laws and regulations. All plants passed audit by third party with zero NC. About Environment compliance: SPVB always comply Viet Nam law and regulations. Passed all government audits with zero violation. There were 6 government audits had done in 2020 We set up environment sustainability KPI's for water usage and energy usage. These figures were reviewed weekly at manufacturing meeting and monthly at company operating review meeting. Below is the SPVB KPI's 2019 achievement vs. reduction target: 2019 Targets and Results Water conservation SPVB has established targets and policies for water conservation. In addition to reduce consumption and effluent, we also strive to recycle water from treatment processes, bottle washing/ rinsing and CIP. Recycle treated waste water to use for gardening and internal cleaning at Dong Nai Plant & Quan Nam Plant. Analyses the water flow and find the priority point to focus on management. 314 Climate change CO 2 emissions from both power and fuel are measured at our plants, with targets to reduce energy consumption and CO 2 emissions. Methods include waste heat recovery, VFD for variable load motors/pumps/air conditioners, power-saving lighting, auto-timers at offices and eco oven for blowers. SPVB applied some new technologies to reduce CO 2 emission such as: Apply Biomass boiler outsource replace for boiler using DO at Can Tho Plant (2018), Hoc Mon plant (2019). In 2020, it is continued for Quang Nam Plant Apply Solar project at Bac Ninh Plant (2015), and Dong Nai Plant will be done in 2020 (1 MWH), will continue extend to 4 MWH at Dong Nai Plant, 3 MWH for Quang Nam Plant, 3 MWH for Bac Ninh Plant, Many small projects to improve operation/system to save energy such as: VFD applied, heat recovery for all pipe/ equipment. Conduct GHG reduction audit in 2020 to find the opportunity to reduce CO 2 emission. Target reduce 25% CO 2 emission amount from 2015 to 2030 (absolution). Build up the system to tracking CO 2 e. Resource conservation We measure solid waste generation and recycling rates at our plants, with targets for reduced waste and increased recycling. We recognize the importance of following 3Rs practices (Reduce, Reuse and Recycle). We incorporate 3Rs into product design by creating lighter packaging; to conserve resources and reduce energy consumed during transportation (related production and design are carried out in-house). We have also changed from PVC to OPP labels for PET bottles, and from PVC to ACL labels for glass bottles. This helps to reduce environmental impact and encourage proper recycling. Additionally, used materials at our plants are collected for sale to third-party companies for reuse or recycling. Many lightweight projects are applied to reduce waste plastic discharged to environment, reduce environment impact. 315 Reducing pollution and managing chemical substances We comply thoroughly with all laws and regulations for the prevention of soil, water and air pollution. We carry out environmental impact assessments and obtain governmental approval for all plants. We have also implemented hazardous waste management systems, and environmental leaders are positioned at each site to ensure proper treatment and disposal. All waste sludge of WWTP at all plant is collected and re-use for other purposes such as: ・Used as additive of bio fertilizer ・Used as additive of brick production Moreover, all generated sludge not be landfill, reduce environment impact. Solid waste management Waste water treatment plant To Create Harmony with Society -Cultural and Social Contribution■Relations with the Local Community Pursuing the corporate value Giving back to Society , CSR is an integral part of SPVB's sustainable development. SPVB CSR focuses on 2 pillars including Education Supporting the Youth, Water -Environment, and a charity program named Helping Hands which has been financed and operated by SPVB's employees across the country. 316 “Mizuiku I love clean water”program Mizuiku is an initiative of Suntory Holdings Limited (Suntory) implemented in Japan since 2004. The program celebrates its 15th anniversary in 2019. In 2015, the program was successfully piloted in Vietnam's Northern region with the purposes of educating pupils on water preservation and providing water filtration systems to the remote areas of Vietnam. The original format was customized to suit the Vietnam's conditions and create an interesting learning platform for children. The pupils experienced SPVB plant tour in Quang Nam plant, Vietnam Since 2017, the Ho Chi Minh Young Pioneer Organization and the Vietnam National Union collaborated with Suntory Group, Suntory PepsiCo Vietnam to implement the program at the nationwide scale. Up to the present, the program has been expanded from 6 to 90 schools across Vietnam with nearly 25,000 students receiving education classroom teaching on water resource preservation. 15 sanitary support and 53 clean water filtration systems installed also helped providing clean water for over 34,500 Vietnamese locals. In 2019, Mizuiku successfully launched the first time ever series of picture books for children with the Mizu icon as the teller of water preservation stories. Mizuiku continues to be a part of the Joint Program between the Ministry of Education and Training and the Ho Chi Minh Communist Youth Union from 2017 till now as one of an experiment programs for the children in the entire Vietnam. 2020 marks the 6th year of Mizuiku in Vietnam and is the 4th year the program be implemented at the nationwide scale. This year the program will be newly established in 20 primary schools in Lang Son, Quang Nam, Dong Nai and Ben Tre provinces, additionally to the current 90 schools as of 2019. In particularly, thanks for the supporting of our partners and local government authorities, this year the program plans to expand the educational part to all primary schools in Ben Tre and reach to international primary schools in Hanoi, Ho Chi Minh cities, to increase more children beneficiaries of this educational program. Furthermore, online training for trainer class will be also introduced to green summer student volunteers via MIZUIKU E-learning platform. Students participated in“River at my hometown” Students participated in“Recycling day Mizu knight activity in Mizuiku teaching class in Ben Tre, Vietnam. protect environment”. 317 Green Summer Green Summer is a campaign for students in joining volunteering programs and held by Vietnam National Union of Students every summer. Throughout the campaign, many volunteers nationwide contributed effectively to society, through activities such as building and renovating countryside roads, bridges and charity houses, participating in ensuring safety traffic, and urban civilization communication activities; supporting in university entrance exams. Below are some highlights of Green Summer in the recent years: ・Successfully signed the second Annex within the framework of the 3yr strategic partnership (2018-2020) with Vietnam National Union of Students and well leveraged it as a key important partner for Sustainability development goals ・Received HCM Communist Central Youth Union's recognition for SPVB contribution to VN Youth ・Green Summer Campaign official national Kick-off events in Long An (2018) and Bac Kan (2019) with +5K volunteers ・19 WATER TREATMENT SYSTEMS in 8 provinces (Quang Nam, Ben Tre, Ha Giang, Lang Son, Quang Ninh, Hai Phong, Quang Tri, Binh Dinh) ・9 sport equipment & 12 playgrounds for children in Bac Ninh, Hanoi, HCMC, Danang, HCMC, Can Tho, Ca Mau ・5 BEACH CLEAN-UP EVENTS in 5 provinces (Hai Phong, Quang Ninh, Binh Dinh, Quang Nam, Ben Tre) with 1K volunteers (SPVB & local), contributed to clean-up 8,5 tons of wastes, increased engagement to more than 230 employees and customers Mr. Uday Shankar Sinha, former CEO & GD SPVB received the Certificate of Merit from Mr. Le Quoc Phong, First Secretary of the Ho Chi Minh Communist Youth Union Beach clean-up event 2019 in Quang Nam 318 SPVB & REVIVE accompanied volunteers in many activities nationwide Helping Hands Helping Hands program, an employee volunteering and donation program, where employees are provided with opportunities to care for community and the world, we live in. It has launched in August 2011 supporting to enhance SPVB's core values and to build the corporate culture, engage employees for long term commitment and contribution to both business and society sustainable growth. The total raised funds by employees will be approved for matching by the company. It's a good platform for all our employees, community and business. Since 2011, 10 SPVB Helping Hands committees were formed, about 140 HH programs were initiated, more than 5,000 volunteers, 18,000 manhours volunteering were contributed, 8.7 billion VND was used to build 4 schools, 3 houses and 3 libraries for children in mountainous areas, award thousands of scholarships, support 1,600 eye surgeries, present gifts for the disabled and the older people in social centers. Bac Ninh Plant and Hanoi Sales Office Helping Hands committees built a school in Son La (Northern Vietnam high-mountainous province) Bringing smiles and gifts to poor patients Quang Nam Plant Helping Hands at Da Nang Oncology Hospital 319 Education Dynamic Contest For years, SPVB has been taking advantage of all resources to bring the best opportunities for Vietnamese young talents to learn and exchange from people inside and outside the country. For the last 23 years, SPVB have been accompanying the DYNAMIC The future entrepreneurs contest and since 2017, we are proud to become its co-organizer with University of Economics Ho Chi Minh City for the new DYNAMIC start up version where the students had room to conceive and develop their own business ideas. Here are some highlights of Dynamic of the recent years: ・Expand the participation of more universities: 14 participating Universities nationwide ・DYNAMIC 2019 kick off events at 4 regions in 7 Universities reached +2,000 students ・Cross functional contribution incl. local Sales/Finance/Marketing joint functional trainings for DYNAMIC students Talk show with Mr. Mai Quang Vinh Executive Vice Marketing training with Ms. Nguyen Xuan Linh Trang President, Sales of Suntory PepsiCo Vietnam Senior Marketing Director SPVB Blocky (UEH) The winning team of Dynamic 2019 Vietnamese students from Dynamic 2019 winning team visited the office of Suntory Beverage and Food Asia (SBFA) in Singapore 320 Suntory PepsiCo Friendship Golf Tournament The Suntory PepsiCo Friendship Golf was organized from 2001 to recognize the companionship, contribution and cooperation of its partners and friends to the overall success of the company. Since 2007, the event has been organized to raise funds for poor people living in poverty. This is the 16th edition of this popular event. From 2007 to 2015, the raised fund from the tournament has been used to conduct 380 heart surgery donations, award 40 scholarships and sponsored thousands of Tet gifts for orphans and the elderly, support 30 disabled athletes with excellent academic results, build 6 health centers, 28 houses, 4 kindergartens and 2 informatics centers. In 2016 & 2017, nearly 1.7 billion was used to build 6 water supply systems in 5 schools and one island district of Ben Tre province to provide clean water supply for more than 4,000 people and children here and provide 74 water filters for more than 1,600 students in 7 schools and about 7,000 patients each year at two infirmaries in Tan Tru District, Long An Province. Over 2.8 billion VND was raised from Suntory PepsiCo Friendship Golf 2018 and 2019 events by Suntory PepsiCo Vietnam in collaboration with the Sponsoring Association for the Poor Patients of Ho Chi Minh City was donated to bring clean water to students in Ben Tre Province via the Clean Water for Primary Schools program. Mr. Jahanzeb Khan CEO & General Director of SPVB handed over total raised fund to Sponsoring Association for the Poor Patients of Ho Chi Minh City in the 2019 SPVB golf tournament To Create Harmony with Employees -Diversity Management■Our Employees Diversity SPVB promotes local employment and national workforce development. Additionally, we also value diversity and inclusion, and train our employees and management in these values. One of our key performance indicators for management is our female employment ratio, which we consider a key aspect of workforce diversity in Vietnam. HR development At Suntory PepsiCo, we are passionate about growing our business and we recognize that in order to do this we must continually support and develop our employees. With the purpose to provide our employees with the expertise they need to fulfill their role and make an impact on your business, we build up a well-rounded training portfolio which includes: Leadership skill, General Skill and Functional skills. Every year, around 60 70 workshops that reach ~1,700 employees. 321 Beside training workshops, we also have some activities to enhance the learning & sharing culture such as Lunch & Learn, Internal Trainer Club, etc. Since July 2015, in order to promote recognition cultures in SPVB, E-kudos the first ever recognition online tool has been launched. This initiative receives a big support from Line managers and employees. There is about 1000 e-kudos granted every year. Internal Trainer Club In Organization Health Survey 2017 conducted by Tower Watson, with more than 99% response rate, SPVB has received outstanding results with 8 out of 16 categories getting higher scores compared to Vietnam National Norm (Such as Pay & Benefits, Leadership, Operating Efficiency, Performance Management, etc.). Especially, in the Sustainable Engagement category key variable of the survey, we surpass both Vietnam National and Beverage Overall Norm showing the intensity of our employees’connection to the organization. Work/life balance To help promote a healthy work/life balance, SPVB offers flexible working hours to the managerial levels up. In addition to flex-time, female employees may also reduce their working hours in order to facilitate childcare when the children are under 1 year old. Excessive overtime is discouraged, and a work-from-home system is available. Besides, SPVB promotes the team activities such as the team building activities and trips, the sport programs and the healthy living promotion campaign for the healthy living style to enhance the awareness of the employees and their family on the health protection and prevention. 322 Health and safety Safety is always the top priority of SPVB company in order to bring a healthy and safe working environment to employees. In 2019, many safety projects and programs were implemented at all plants and sales offices of the company. These activities have helped the company significantly improve working environment, raise all employees' awareness and safe working skills. 1. 2019 safety campaign program with the participation of all employees in the Sales & Manufacturing Division: The program started in February 2019 with many competitive activities such as near miss reports, competitions of the talented trio in the Sales Division, safety competition between teams. The safety campaign 2019 concluded by a national final contest held in Hanoi in November 2019, marking a successful milestone in the company's safety activities. 2. Defense driving training program & safe driving workshop for all employees in the Sales Division and Head Office. Defense driving training is the special training program implemented by SPVB company & Honda Vietnam company. This program equips employees' skills to drive safely on the road, handle dangerous situations, avoid accidents & raise awareness of compliance with traffic laws on the road. The program run from April 4-8, 2019 in all business areas & Head office. 323 3. Online safety quiz program The online safet y quiz program wa s designed to enhance employees' safet y knowledge & awareness. The program took place in November 2019 for all employees in the Sales division. The program recognizes the active participation of all employees during the program. 4. Warehouse Safety Training Program for Distributors of SPVB Company. Taking place from May to August 2019, the warehouse safety training was one of the programs to increase Distributors’ awareness and equip knowledge of warehouse safety measures for SPVB distribution system. The program was implemented by the coordination of many departments such as QA-QC, PA, Sales & H&S to ensure practical and diverse information and knowledge for distributors of SPVB company’ s areas in Vietnam. 5. Staff health counseling program This is an important part of the company's staff health care programs. With the purpose of providing employees the most practical and necessary information, health care advices for Sales and Head Office employees are conducted via 2 live & online channels. The program run in November & December at HO of all company's business areas. 324 6. Safety Deep Drive (SDD) SME (Suntory Monozuki Experts) communities of safety specialists with highly developed knowledge and expertise on safety focused on support SPVB with clear roadmap and action plan in 2019. This commitment from top Suntory and SPVB leadership and management help to find out aspects of improvement and alignment with Suntory H&S system. The main objectives and activities were: ● Train the trainer: EHSM team joined train in one of the famous Suntory training centers at Japan with key learnings of Risk Assessment, KYT (Danger prediction), Safety machine design, Visualization and Communication. Then, come back to Vietnam and implement at SPVB plants. ● Act in Gemba: SME/SBF came to visit 5 plants of SPVB, gave feedback on current situations, conditions; rise up unsafety detection power by Gemba site tour. ● Another bonus point is that Safety Machinery Design lecture to plant engineers when SME visited Vietnam and monthly SDD online-meeting with all the presence of Plant Directors, EHS Managers, SHEQ Senior Director, SPVB leadership team and SBFA. 325 7. Safety talk Safety talk talking about 1 simple topic in a short period of time (approx. 30 mins), delivered monthly by PD, Managers. This is a new program deployed in 2019 by Nationwide H&S team with the purpose to provide simple & easy-remember safety knowledge to employees; step-by-step enhance safety awareness and make safety as priority in daily tasks. The simpler, the easier to apply in employees' activities! Safety should be easy to talk about. Given that it's in everyone's best interest, as a topic of conversation it should be no more controversial than discussing the weather. Started from Sep2019, safety talk now likely becomes monthly routine. Event some groups/sections when starting a meeting, they will talk about safety, update some situations at their sections. Scheduling clear agenda for 2019-2020, this lets employees have a full image of what they will receive, spread the spirit of leading by example to all other interests. 8. Near miss Near miss is an unplanned and undesired work-related event that is under slightly different circumstances, could cause an accident or incident. Many safety activities are reactive and not proactive, and some organizations wait for losses to occur before taking steps to prevent a recurrence. Near miss incidents often precede loss producing events but may be overlooked when there was no harm (no injury, damage or loss). At SPVB, employees are firstly encouraged to report near miss (including unsafe conditions and unsafe behaviors) with KPI 2 near miss/month. Moreover, to ensure the quality of near miss reporting, SPVB switched to percentage of near miss closed, from quantity to quality stage with KPI of 95%. Recognizing and reporting near miss incidents can significantly improve workers' safety and enhance an organization's safety culture. SPVB believes that if employees report the little stuff, they can prevent the big stuff accordingly. 9. Leadership Gemba Leadership Gemba is a part of Daily Management which helps plant management team to check the real situation and directly interact with operators and workers. By this activity, management team can ensure the actual situation is same as the report they received from their team as well as building people engagement. In 2019, this is reinforced stronger by the participation of senior leadership team including SPVB CEO, Excom and directors. The activity is also scheduled for night shift, the time when employees are easy to break the safety rules. Any unsafe action would be stopped immediately and disciplinary is applied if required. This helps to build safety culture in the company. The Gemba matrix is developed and applied consistency in 5 plants. 326 Standard Operational Procedure (SOP) benchmarking To improve SPVB operational standard system, Nationwide H&S team made a benchmarking against SOPs of other Suntory's plants such as SBFA, Singapore, Thailand, Indonesia, etc. This was a great chance to get good practices, standardization from those countries, selected what are good points and apply for SPVB. With strong support from SPVB leadership team, those changes now is being applied and making change in safety-mindset of employees, contractors. The focused procedures are Work Permit, Work at height, Lock out Tag out (LOTO) 10. Safety Committee meeting: Plant Safety Committees have been implemented with clear roles and responsibility of each member. Committee members are coming department in plant and department representatives for Safety. The meeting of this committee is organized monthly. The topic will be discussed during the meeting are pending action from last meeting, legal compliance, H&S KPI, unsafe action, unsafe condition at work, improvement points suggestion from department… Plant Director is the leader of this meeting Beside that SPVB also has Safety Steering Committee meeting organized monthly with Top management from SBFA and SPVB to review Safety Culture Change implementation across plants. 11. Safety training: Safety training is a very important part of building people capability in the journey of Safety Culture Change. Besides Safety training course as legal requirement, basing on the training need analysis and learning from event, SPVB has defined 18 safety training topics and developed training materials as well. Nationwide H&S already set-up Safety training matrix: topics vs. job title. The matrix with fixed 34 course names, course codes, period, trainers, materials and for each position. With this clear guidelines and matrix, the execution of training is easier for the team. 327 Frucor Suntory 86 Plunket Ave, Manukau, Auckland 2104, New Head Office Zealand Business Production and sales of non-alcoholic beverages activities Website https://frucorsuntory.com/ Company Overview and Philosophy Frucor Suntory manufactures a wide variety of soft drinks, including energy drinks, fruit juice, mineral water, sports drinks, kombucha and dairy beverages. Our brands are enjoyed in homes throughout Australia and New Zealand, and the company is firmly established in its target markets. This can be attributed to, among other things, the values shared among all of our employees and our corporate culture. Everyone at Frucor Suntory strives to live our corporate values of Together , Go for It , and Make a Difference . We believe these values, along with our purpose of‘Hungry to make drinks better', are among the key reasons we have been able to establish our unique position in this market. Primary CSR Activities To Create Harmony with Customers and Partners -Products and Services■Quality Management Ensuring rigorous quality control and food safety standards Frucor Suntory factories operate under a range of national and international food safety and quality programmes ranging from HACCP, National Programme, through to ISO 9001 and ISO 22000. We also hold Certification to support our Organics claims. Our manufacturing subcontractors are selected in part based on their adherence to the same quality standards we hold ourselves, and we have a dedicated team who ensure this is upheld. Continuously improving business operations Frucor Suntory strives toward the company-wide eradication of waste in all areas of our operations. We have been practicing 5S seiri seiton (putting things in order); seiketsu, seisou (cleanliness, cleaning); shitsuke (discipline) for the past 10 years and the majority of our manufacturing staff have been qualified at Level II in Competitive Manufacturing (NZQA), Recently we have lifted our game in the area of productivity improvement programmess and have a number of employees qualified as Six Sigma Green Belt exponents. Each year, Frucor Suntory manufacturing implements more than 800 improvement ideas in the factory. Our passion for Continuous Improvement resulted in Frucor Suntory being the inaugural winner of the Suntory World Kaizen Forum (WKF) in 2015. In 2016, Frucor Suntory hosted the second WKF event in Auckland New Zealand. Over the past four years, 37 individuals from different departments (R&D, Quality, Manufacturing, Engineering, HR & Finance) have completed Green Belt (continuous improvement) projects with another ten candidates progressing in 2019. Two members of staff qualified as Black Belts and in 2018, 15 people went through the two day Yellow Belt course with two more programmes planned for 2019. 328 Hunger for Making Drinks Better Our company purpose of‘hungry to make drinks better' extends right across our business. It is particularly relevant to our efforts to offer consumers a greater choice of products that are‘better for you'.. We have made a commitment that low and no sugar drinks will account for half our future growth. One in three drinks we sell in 2030 will be low or no sugar. In 2018 we launched Amplify kombucha, which has less than 1g of sugar per 100m, NZ Natural Sparkling flavoured waters, which have no sugar and no artificial flavours and Pepsi Max Vanilla, with zero sugar. We’ ve also reformulated OVI, reducing sugar by 50% so it now has just 2g per 100m and OH sodas, which have less than 2g of sugar per 100m, and we reduced sugar in V Pure by 10 per cent. We have also rapidly adopted the Health Star Rating food labelling scheme with the % Daily Intake Energy icon and voluntarily restricted the sale of sugar-sweetened beverages in schools. As part of the Ministry of Health’s Healthy Kids’ Pledge we only sell water to primary and intermediate schools. We do not directly sell sugar-sweetened soft drinks or any energy drinks to secondary schools.. We were one of the first drink companies in our part of the world to use stevia, a natural plant-derived sweetener which has replaced sugar in many of our drinks. Relations with Customers We treat our customers with the same respect with which we treat each other. This has led to very positive customer relationships, with customers consistently recognising us as best in class Domino's Pizza Enterprise (DPE) Australia and New Zealand awarded us 2018 Business Partner of the Year for our team's contribution to helping Domino's deliver excellent service. And our Australian sales team won also won an array of industry awards in 2018 including NPD of the Year for V Deadpool at BP's awards night; Supplier of the Year Beverages Energy at the New Sunrise Group conference; and Beverage Supplier of the Year at the AACS Convenience Leaders’Summit. Relations with Business Partners We make every effort to use local sources for products and services, but on occasion we must use overseas suppliers for some requirements. Frucor Suntory requires that all suppliers adhere to strict, socially accepted standards of employee treatment and environmental policies and regulations related to the local environment. To ensure that all product ingredients obtained by Frucor Suntory meet our quality standards, we perform rigorous ingredient inspections and onsite audits of manufacturing processes. To Create Harmony with Nature -Environment■Environmental Efforts Environment policy We're committed to monitoring and reducing our environmental footprint around the world and in our own backyard.. Our 2030 goals are: Zero landfilll 35% carbon footprint 20% water usage Promoting waste reduction and recycling We consider waste reduction a top priority and have taken a variety of steps to promote it. Frucor Suntory is associated with multiple industry organisations in New Zealand and Australia, and promotes waste reduction and improvements in recycling rates, for example, by encouraging recycling in public areas and at event sites, improving our packaging design, and investing in research and development related to local initiatives for container recycling. Frucor Suntory's environmental improvement plans take a structured approach to sustainability with targets to greatly improve the recycling rate and reduce both energy and water usage rates. 329 Effectively using energy and water resources Frucor Suntory is one of only a handful of ANZ companies to be CEMARS certified. CEMARS stands for Certified Emissions Measurement And Reduction Scheme a globally recognised certification for companies actively managing and reducing carbon emissions. At Frucor Suntory our CO 2 emissions stem from several sources, some being obvious like manufacturing and others much less so. However, we're taking action to reduce these emissions. Over the past 18 months V energy drink production line we have been working with an environmental consultancy to accurately measure our carbon, and seeking new ways to decrease it. We have set achievable goals to decrease our environmental impact, while also meeting the requirements of an independent audit Our Supply Chain team has made great progress towards reducing our energy and water use. Investment in new technology and embedding better behaviours has seen a 12% reduction in energy intensity and a 9.2%reduction in water usage. The Logistics team has also delivered several key projects to reduce our overall CO 2 footprint, including moving our Victoria warehouse in Australia to LED lights, the optimisation of the Christchurch warehouse in New Zealand (saving 10,500 kilometers) and an increase in container and transport efficiency (saving 40,000 kilometers). To Create Harmony with Society -Cultural and Social Contribution■Relations with Regional Companies Frucor Suntory works with a range of organisations in Australia and New Zealand that are doing great things, including OzHarvest, Foodbank Australia, KiwiHarvest and Surf Life Saving New Zealand, and we encourage our team to get out and support their local community wherever possible. In addition, in 2006 Frucor New Zealand entered into a voluntary agreement with the Ministers of Health and Education in New Zealand not to sell full sugar carbonated beverages and energy drinks to primar y and secondar y school students. In 2017, we strengthened the voluntary agreement and agreed to only sell water to primary and intermediate schools. This was done as part of the wider New Zealand Beverage Council commitment to the Government's Healthy Kids'Industry Pledge. Employee Volunteer Activities Frucor Suntory supports employee volunteer activities and employees regularly volunteer with our partners OzHarvest and KiwiHarvest. 330 To Create Harmony with Employees -Diversity Management■Relations with Employees Promoting workplace safety and health leading for change We put people at the heart of everything we do. Our vision is that our people go home to their families healthy and safe, every day. To achieve our vision, we are committed to ensuring our people leaders promote an environment supportive of excellence in health and safety practices and performance. People leaders are expected to participate in conversations on improving health and safety outcomes, be mindful of the risks associated with work activities, and Employees working at the encouraged to provide the necessary resources to reduce risk exposure. Auckland distribution centre In addition to a network of Health and Safety Committees, there are approximately 70 Health and Safety Representatives throughout the business, nominated by their peers to represent them on health and safety matters. Involving Health and Safety Representatives in discussions means improvement proposals take into account actual working conditions. Our Health and Safety Management System provides the tools and processes to support the implementation of our commitments and delivery of our vision and we make health and safety improvements an integral part of all business decisions and plans. We view compliance with legislation and industry standards as a minimum requirement: we aim to go beyond them to deliver excellence in health and safety performance. Supporting employee growth through training and skills development We pride ourselves on valuing our people and having an engaged workforce. We invest heavily in developing our people through a focus on purposeful leadership and connecting everyone to vision and strategy. Our unique culture is maintained by embracing an outward looking and winning mindset. 331 Beam Suntory Inc. 222 W. Merchandise Mart Plaza, Chicago, IL 60654 Head Office USA Established May 2014 (November 1966 as Jim Beam Brands Co.) Business Production and sale of bourbon whiskey and other Activities premium spirits Website http://www.beamsuntory.com/ Company Overview and Philosophy Inspiring Human Connections Beam Suntory is a world leader in premium spirits company. With a vision of Growing for Good, our mission is to inspire human connections. Our performance objective is to be the world's most admired and fastest growing premium spirits company. By creating famous brands, building winning markets, and fueling our growth, we are implementing our Vision Into Action strategy and driving sustainable growth. Primary CSR Activities CSR Philosophy The“Growing for Good”vision inspires our CSR strategy Good corporate citizenship and a commitment to social responsibility are at the very core of Beam Suntory7s character. Beam Suntory makes contributions to all stakeholders our parent company, customers, consumers, business partners, employees, and or local communities as we continue to grow. We also share Suntory's tradition of protecting the precious resources that form the basis of our products and communities. Beam Suntor y’ s CSR program is focused on three areas: protecting water and the environment, suppor ting the communities where our people live and work, and promoting responsible consumption of our products. We invest our time, resources, and energy in these areas not just because it’s the right thing to do, but because these are our values as a company. Protecting Water and the Environment Water is our most important raw material. We engage in water conservation activities to protect our water sources, and strive to continue reducing water usage at our production centers around the world especially those located in water stressed areas. We are also committed to the development of Natural Water Sanctuaries. As we look to the future, we strive to continue reducing our water and energy use, and reduce the amount of waste sent to landfills. Our investment in reducing our environmental impact has totaled $60 million over the last ten years. We believe that the effective and efficient use of natural resources is an important element in the long-term success of our production centers. Beam Suntory strives to reduce our environmental impact through a variety of initiatives, including the use of cogeneration technology, waste reduction and recycling, and reduced water usage at our production sites. 332 Preserving Watersources Protecting our water supply Beam Suntory works to protect rain water, ground water, and surface water. These activities include the use of semipermeable sediment control structures, recovery pools, regulating reservoirs, and other structures designed to prevent water outflow, soil erosion, and deterioration of water quality. Reducing Water Consumption Reducing water consumption and wastewater generation are key areas of focus for Beam Suntory. Several of our production centers have highly-advanced water reclamation systems. Beam Suntory India: The process water used to clean equipment in India is filtered and beneficially reused to reduce the amount of fresh water required, and the amount of wastewater generated. In addition, rain water is harvested, recovered and beneficially reused. This process helps reduce the amount of runoff water that cannot be absorbed during heavy rainfall. Beam Suntory Mexico (Casa Sauza): The quality of treated water has been greatly improved by using a highly-advanced water regeneration system. This water can now be recycled and beneficially reused at the plant's compost operation, and has been made available to local fire stations for use in fire trucks and fire extinguishing equipment. Virgin Islands/St. Croix: Process water is regenerated by a highly-advanced water regeneration system, for reuse in the plant. This has led to major reductions in the amount of fresh water required and the amount of wastewater generated. Building Natural Water Sanctuaries Maker's Mark Natural Water Sanctuary Great bourbon starts with great water. The Maker’ s Mark Natural Water Sanctuary aims to preserve the land that filters the water. This preservation program on 33 acres of our distillery land is designed to improve the quality of vegetation, including the addition of American White Oak trees, create a better habitat for native species, like the prairie warbler and red-headed woodpecker, and ultimately protect our groundwater, and the quality of water with which to make better bourbon. Jim Beam Natural Water Sanctuary Alliance at Bernheim Arboretum & Research Forest Jim Beam and Bernheim Arboretum & Research Forest, a 15,625 acre privately held forest, have formed a long-term partnership, and established a Natural Water Aanctuary on Bernheim grounds immediately adjacent to the Jim Beam distillery. The Natural Water Sanctuary Alliance will protect water quality, restore wildlife habitats, and reintroduce native plants and trees, and enhance environmental education, improve watershed protection planning, and secure quality water. Corporate Energy-Saving Initiatives Beam Suntory strives to continue reducing energy usage at our offices and production centers around the world. The company is also working to reduce the need for single-use plastics across its locations. Here are just a few examples of specific work by location: Clermont, Kentucky: The Jim Beam American Stillhouse has received the LEED Gold Certification from the U.S. Green Building Council. Frankfort, Kentucky: LED lighting is used throughout the bottling and processing areas to improve light quality while also reducing energy use and cost. Chicago, Illinois: We are reducing our energy consumption by using the latest web conference and printing technologies in our offices around the world. Our global headquarters incorporates an open floor plan and shared workspaces. Located in the historic Merchandise Mart, a LEED-certified building, our offices incorporate natural lighting. LEED (Leadership in Energy and Environmental Design) is America’ s leading program that assesses the energy-saving performance of the design, construction, and operation of buildings. The office additionally uses energy-efficient LED lighting that automatically adapts based on natural light in the room. Washington, D.C.– Our Global Public Affairs office in Washington, D.C. is located within a LEED-certified building. 333 Madrid, Spain: Our building was the first sustainable office building in Madrid. Noise entering from outside the building is reduced to a minimum and energy savings are maximized using solar panels and insulated metallic outer walls. Excess energy is utilized by an on-site system. Water and Energy-Saving Initiatives at Production Sites Cognac, France: Courvoisier has shifted more than half of its production from truck to trains traveling from Cognac to Le Havre. By switching from truck to train transport, the total greenhouse gas emissions were reduced by approximately 92% or about 763 tons. Kentucky Operations In Kentucky, all bourbon barrels are effectively reused. Most are used by other distilled spirits producers, while others are refashioned into furniture and other wooden products. Bourbon barrels are made of white oak procured from sustainable stands of timber. Our suppliers actively support and cooperate in the sustainable procurement of white oak. The Jim Beam distillery in Clermont, Kentucky recently transitioned from coal to natural gas power. Beam Suntory and its barrel supplier, Independent Stave Company, also provide sustainability education to loggers in Kentucky and Missouri. At our distilleries, we recover and beneficially reuse spent grains, often as livestock feed. Additionally, biosolids (sludge) from our water treatment process are also reused. Jim Beam American Stillhouse The Jim Beam American Stillhouse received the LEED Gold Certification. This cer tification is granted to facilities that have a superior record of leadership, innovation, environmental conser vation, and social responsibility. The following are a few of the outstanding environmentally sustainable features of the Jim Beam American Stillhouse: -25% recycled building materials -The use of water-saving equipment such as faucets and flush toilets that have resulted in a 50% annual reduction in water usage -79% of construction waste was recycled and not sent to landfill Tequila, Mexico At Casa Sauza in Mexico, 99.8% of waste is recycled and reused, diverting an annual average of 47,000 cubic meters from landfill. Used agave (an ingredient of tequila) fibers are recovered and made into compost. This compost helps retain water in the soil and provides nutrients for new agave plants. Segovia, Spain: Natural gas is used to fuel a combined heat and power plant – also known as a cogeneration plant. The heat and electricity produced are used in the distillation process and excess electrical power is sold to the local power company. This cogeneration process has been shown to be 30% more efficient than when heat and electricity are produced using separate facilities. Effective Use of Resources Beam Suntory monitors and reports on the amount of waste it sends ti landfill as well as the amount of material that is recycled and beneficially reused. We will continue reducing, reusing, and recycling production supplies, product packaging and containers. 334 The 3Rs of containers The Beam Suntory Design-to-Value team works on methods to reduce packaging materials while at the same time improving product design. Their end goal is to have a more positive impact on both the environment and consumers. This team has succeeded in creating lighter bottle designs, shifting from glass containers to polyethylene resin containers, and doing away with excess corrugated cardboard and packaging materials. This process reduced the total amount of packaging material that is utilized, the associated costs, and the environmental impact. Beam Suntory also promotes recycling and reuse initiatives. Cooley Distillery in Ireland is a member of REPAK, a packaging compliance system supporting companies that contribute funds used in the recovery and recycling of packaging material waste products. Also, Casa Sauza was awarded the Best Recycle Stock Warehouse Award in Mexico in 2014. Employee environmental education We encourage employee participation in voluntary environmental sustainability activities. Our employees participate in larger industry groups like the Beverage Industry Environmental Roundtable (BIER) as well as smaller, local groups and programs such as the Kentucky Sustainable Spirits Initiative and Kentucky Excellence in Environmental Leadership (KY EXCEL). We also partner with educational and research institutions like the University of Kentucky and the Kentucky Water Resources Research Institute to create opportunities for employees, university students, and professors to collaborate on research, education, training, and technology transfer for water-related environmental issues. Our employees continue to make meaningful contributions in the communities where we work and live. We recognize these efforts in a variety of ways, including with our annual Vision Into Action (VIA) Awards. Pollution Prevention and Management of Chemicals Beam Suntory uses safety data sheets in accordance with the global harmonization standards to properly manage the use, storage and transport of potentially hazardous materials. Casa Sauza participates in Clean Field Programs run by AMOCALI (commercial organization) and SEMARNAT (Environment Ministry) to help ensure the safe use and recycling of agriculture chemicals and containers. Activities Designed to Conserve Biodiversity Employees are actively encouraged to support their local communities, such as volunteering in clean-up activities Chicago Beam Suntory is forging a partnership with the Friends of the Chicago River, a 40-year-old organization working to improve the health of the Chicago River system for the benefit of people, plants and animals. The partnership is focused on preserving and protecting the local waterway, and will include regular employee volunteer commitments. The Chicago office has eliminated the use of straws, and is working to eliminate all single-use plastics for food and beverages at the office. Kentucky Jim Beam has completed several riverbank revival projects in Kentucky projects that utilize non-chemical natural methods and biotechnology. The distillery also partners with the University of Kentucky for watershed protection planning, and has created and protected many acres of wetlands. An abundance of nature surrounds our plants Kentucky Business Conservation Partner of the Year award The Maker's Mark Distiller y ha s created a nature preser ve on par t of it s 620 acre property. It has been recognized for its positive influence on wildlife and the environment, and was awarded the Kentucky Business Conservation Partner of the Year award by the Commissioner of the Kentucky Department of Fish & Wildlife Resources. 335 Implementing environmental conservation programs with the Kentucky Department of Environmental Protection All Beam Suntory plants located in Kentucky are active members of Kentucky Excel. Multiple, voluntary environmental projects are completed each year by employee-led environmental teams. Maker's Mark ECO Team The ECO team at the Maker's Mark Distillery sets up bird houses on distillery land, plants native plants and trees, and works with the Kentucky Department of Fish & Wildlife Resources to maintain and improve natural habitat areas and biodiversity. Supporting the Nest Building of Bald Eagles Around the Plant The area around the Booker Noe Plant in Kentucky is home to bald eagles. Employees at ECO Team the plant help build nests during breeding season. Bird houses for barn owls are also set up in the Booker Noe Plant's storehouse to protect the endangered species. Protecting wild birds and bees Beam Suntory's Ardmore Distillery (Scotland) is a corporate sponsor of the Royal Society for the Protection of Birds. It supports the East of Scotland Sea Eagle Reintroduction Program, and has sponsored the RSBP Nature of Scotland's Species Champion Award since 201. The Jim Beam Distillery and Maker's Mark Distillery are also active in the protection of wild birds. Both distilleries make and maintain bird houses for a variety of birds and bats. The Courvoisier and Jim Beam Distilleries support the protection of bees (each year they participate in the protection of two beehives at Courvoisier, and 12 at Jim Beam, and maintain wildflower gardens at both sites). Supporting the Communities Where our People Live and Work Employee Volunteer Activities Beam Suntory is engaged in a variety of charitable activities and community support programs where our employees live and work. We provide critical financial support to important community activities such as environmental conservation, health research, higher education, and cultural organizations. In 2019, Beam Suntory is launching“Together for Good,” an annual, global day for employee volunteering. First-year activities are focused on preserving and protecting local water sources. Our Kentucky teams partner in an annual statewide program to raise funds for the United Way charities, which support causes critical in each local community. Beam Suntory employees have raised nearly $1.8 million, including corporate matching funds, over the last 12 years for Kentucky United Way charities. In addition, Beam Suntory supports individual employees' charitable activities. The Beam Suntory Cares Program encourages all employees to take two paid holidays per year to volunteer for community programs of their choice (if all employees participate, this could total more than 72,000 hours of activity per year). We additionally match employees’ charitable contributions in the U.S. Growing for Good Committees Our employees are always looking for ways to give back in their communities. Some corporate offices have established “Growing for Good”committees, which help harness employees’passion for supporting their communities, offering opportunities to volunteer, donate, or otherwise get involved. 336 Support Activities for Disaster Victims In recent years, natural disasters have occurred all too often. Beam Suntory provides both financial support and humanitarian aid to recovery activities in disaster areas through the Red Cross. We also provide safe, clean drinking water to many areas hit by natural disasters. Culture and Art Promotion Activities Beam Suntory supports cultural organizations in the communities where our employees live and work. For example, we sponsor the Ravinia Festival, the oldest music festival in North America. Each year this festival hosts one of America's premier orchestras, the Chicago Symphony Orchestra, outside of Chicago. The 36-acre Ravinia Park is located within a quiet forest and is the perfect setting for enjoying music. Children up to the age of 15, high school students, and university students are not charged admission to the lawn area, which provides them with a great opportunity to enjoy classical music. Beam Suntory also sponsors the Chicago Botanic Garden, a natural treasure that consists of four areas as well as a 26-section garden that sits on 385 acres of land. The garden hosts a variety of annual events and programs, is open year round, and admission is free. Plant Tours Tours of production centers are available in the United States, Mexico, Scotland, Ireland, France, Spain, and Japan. Operation Homefront Since 2008, Beam Suntory has provided more than $3.4 million in cash and in-kind donations, and worked to raise awareness of Operation Homefront, a non-profit organization to build strong, stable, military families so they can thrive in the communities they've worked so hard to protect. This national program was inspired by a Beam Suntory employee in 2009, Over the last 10 years, Beam Suntory has helped Operation Homefront provide more than 350,000 family holiday meals. Promoting the Responsible Consumption of Our Products ■Promoting Responsible Consumption Beam Suntory's approach to responsible alcohol consumption is fundamental to everything we do. Thus, in addition to practicing responsible marketing and sponsoring alcohol education, we invest in a wide variety of programs, partnerships, and organizations throughout the world focused on the prevention alcohol misuse. Beam Suntory employees regularly receive information and encouragement to promote responsible alcohol consumption to family and friends a s “ambassadors”of Beam Suntory and its brands. Global Marketing Principles Beam Suntory is a founding member of the International Alliance for Responsible Drinking (IARD), a not-for-profit organization dedicated to promoting responsible consumption worldwide. Through IARD, leading beverage alcohol producers put our commercial competitiveness aside to create a shared force in our Global Commitments to reduce alcohol misuse the most ambitious and comprehensive set of initiatives the industry has undertaken to date. Beam Suntor y addresses each of these commitments in a variety of ways around the world, including founding membership in the Foundation for Advancing Alcohol Responsibility (FAAR; www.responsibility.org); DWI Courts, a system that treats repeat DWI offenders in specialized courts, dramatically reducing the rate of repeat offenses; and Building Resilience in Campus Communities, a program at the University of Louisville and the University of Kentucky to reduce underage and binge drinking on those college campuses. Global Marketing Principles Beam Suntory's leadership in responsible consumption starts by complying with all laws and regulations in all jurisdictions as well as industry codes and regulations. Beam Suntory's global marketing principles are uniform for all brands and in all regions and extend to advertising, marketing to consumers, merchandising, brand websites, POS, direct marketing, product development, product placement, and consumer events. 337 Responsible Marketing Beam Suntory is a proud leader in responsible marketing in the spirits industry. In 2007, we voluntarily adopted industryleading media placement standards in the United States, with the goal of reducing exposure to consumers under legal drinking age. Compared to the industry standard of 71% of the media audience of legal purchase age, at least 75% of Beam Suntory's media audience must reasonably be expected to be of legal purchase age. Beam Suntory has additionally prohibited marketing programs related to Spring Break , out-of-home advertising within 500 feet of parks and other recreational areas, and advertisements in video games. Drink Smart® Drink Smart ® is a global platform that educates consumers of legal purchase age to make responsible choices about alcohol. Drink Smart provides tools for consumers who want to take the lead in the responsible consumption of alcohol and provides information about our global commitments to reduce alcohol misuse. Drink Smart, its website or its logo are included in all Beam Suntory marketing materials used around the world, from social media to television advertisements. Beam Suntory product labels include Drink Smart, and the website provides nutritional information about our products. Please learn more about Drink Smart at www.drinksmart.com Safe Rides Beam Suntory and its brands regularly partner with Uber to offer consumers safe rides home after a night out on the town. Our employees may also Take a Taxi on Us, when they or a friend are in a situation in which it would be unsafe to drive. Formulating the Code of Conduct & Ethics Beam Suntory and our employees are committed to maintaining the highest ethical standards while aggressively competing in the market. Our employees, executives, and directors abide by the sound business practices and The Code of Conduct & Ethics is ethical standards described in our Code of Conduct & Ethics. Our objective is to do available in seven languages. business with integrity and the highest standards, and continuously earn the trust of all stakeholders. ■Corporate Oversight Corporate Governance Beam Suntory's“Code of Conduct & Ethics”is our guide to conducting business with integrity and the highest standards. The Code provides a set of policies governing business practices that reflect our commitment to Growing for Good while conducting business the right way the Beam Suntory way. In addition to industry regulations, our employees also abide by the rules imposed by company policies, procedures and standards that reflect our industry leadership position. Beam Suntory has established a Global Risk and Compliance Committee”as well as Risk and Compliance Committees”in each region where it does business, along with a separate committee for Gglobal Operations and Supply Chain oversight. Promotion of Compliance At quarterly Global Town Hall meetings and through other communications, employees are consistently reminded by our CEO that they are expected to conduct business the right way, the Beam Suntory way, or always in compliance with requirements and, where possible, consistent with best practices. In addition, live training is provided and interactive compliance training seminars are available online. Beam Suntory also has hotlines available in all major languages to handle inquiries from anywhere in the world 24 hours a day, 7 days a week. 338 Focus on Proactive Risk Management Beam Suntory has created a system for senior management to take the lead in identifying, supervising, and managing risks to the business. The Enterprise Risk Management (ERM) program actively identifies major areas of potential risk, and the executive leadership team designates specific employees to supervise and mitigate the risk. The executive leadership team holds regular meetings to discuss strategy. When risks or crises do occur, the appropriate response is identified and implemented under Beam Suntory's global Major Incident Management (MIM) protocol. Crisis management Major incidents are handled by the Global Major Incident Management (MIM) Team, to ensure swift and effective handling. The Global Technical Service Team facilitates the FACTS incident investigation process with engagement from General Managers in affected operations and the risk management leaders. When a major incident occurs, the Global MIM Team convenes to understand the facts, assess risks and develop appropriate actions to mitigate risks. The MIM team also develops appropriate communications plans to inform key stakeholders. The safety of employees, customers, consumers and the local community is always the highest priority when responding to major incidents. In addition, the Global MIM Team oversees governance, integration, and instructions to local MIM teams. The Global Technical Services Team supports the location where any incident occurs, in cooperation with technical leaders from environment, safety, quality, security, brand protection, insurance/risk management, and other areas. The General Managers at production centers and regional risk management supervisors oversee the local MIM teams. The local MIM teams also handle preventative risk assessment, risk reduction plans, emergency contingency plans, emergency contingency actions, assessment of damages, business recovery, and more. Information security Beam Suntory manages confidential personal data in accordance with legal requirements of each country where we do business. Management of intellectual property rights Beam Suntory employs global intellectual property (IP) rights specialists in our legal department. The IP team deals with filing complaints related to protection of intellectual property rights, the prevention of copyright infringement, and other issues. In Harmony with Customers and Partners -Products and Services■Quality Assurance Initiatives Quality Management Policies and Indicators Beam Suntory requires manufacturing sites to achieve ISO Certification for Quality and Food Safety standards. In addition, the company upholds global standards based upon an Integrated Management System policy that includes Quality, Food Safety, Environmental, Health and Safety. Each production facility has key performance indicators with established improvement plans to meet and exceed quality requirements. Continuous improvement protocols that follow TRACC (software-based guide used to implement continuous improvement through sustainable methods) are in place at all of our production facilities. Beam Suntory's employees and stakeholders will continue to do their utmost to improve systems, processes, and all business activities while protecting the company's most important resources: Employees (safety), Brands (quality), and Reputation (compliance). 339 Quality Management Beam Suntory production facilities have obtained ISO 9001 quality management certification. Many production centers have also obtained ISO 22000 (food safety) and HACCP certification. In addition, the bottling companies with which we subcontract (co-manufacturing) are regularly required to perform technical audits that include the main items of ISO regulations, and rigorous internal inspections at all production locations. ■Consumer Care Collecting customer feedback Beam Suntor y has several databases to gather customer and consumer feedback. Each concern is routed to the appropriate function to investigate and respond effectively. ■Relations with Business Partners As a responsible corporate citizen, Beam Suntory maintains standards to ensure that people are treated properly and fairly. The Beam Suntory Global Citizenship Policy provides guidance to the company, employees, suppliers and contractors. This policy has provisions that prohibit forced labor, slave labor, and labor under confinement. Information disclosure is conducted in accordance with the California Transparency in Supply Chains Act of 2010. We comply with the United Kingdom Modern Slavery Act 2015 and ensure that Beam Suntory suppliers do not use slave labor or human trafficking. The Beam Suntory Global Citizenship Policy At Beam Suntory, corporate values are an essential element of continued success in the marketplace. These values, which include integrity, quality, responsibility, agility, tenacity and Yatte Minahare, are vital to our success. The company's business results are dependent upon our reputation with our co-workers, suppliers, investors, business partners and the communities where we work and live. BEAM SUNTORY GLOBAL CITIZENSHIP POLICY ELEMENTS: 1.Working Conditions/Health and Safety 2.Child Labor 3.Forced Labor 4.Discrimination 5.Working Hours 6.Wages and Benefits 7.Environmental 8.Management Systems 9.Suppliers and Contractors Beam Suntory expects the same commitment from key suppliers and subcontractors. By complying with this policy, our company demonstrates its leadership within the business community. Further, this enhances each of our brands, improves our ability to attract and retain the best talent, and provides better supply chain management and performance. 340 In Harmony with Employees -Diversity Management■Relations with Employees Beam Suntory is committed to creating a diverse environment and is proud to be an equal opportunity employer. All qualified applicants seeking employment with Beam Suntory will receive consideration without regard to race, color, religion, gender, sexual orientation, national origin, genetics, disability, age, or veteran status. Promotion of Work-Life Balance Beam Suntory has prepared Global Guidelines to support flexible work hours and workplaces for its employees to promote work-life balance. Based on these guidelines, each regional HR department creates a protocol in accordance with its local region and offers support to maximize employee engagement and performance. Employees can also utilize flex work and flex rotation based in accordance with local laws. Flextime scheduling The company has a Peak Time Flex Work system by which employees determine their standard daily work hours (core time) and allows them to shift their work time, pending their manager approval. It also has a compressed workweek system that allows them to determine their total weekly work hours to allow them to work fewer than the standard 5-days per week while fulfilling fulltime obligations, pending leadership approval. Creating an Employee-Friendly Workplace Beam Suntory practices open communication and information sharing between labor and management. Each production center has routine training on health and safety topics. Production centers that are implementing lean manufacturing have daily huddles in which safety is the first item that is discussed. These and other discussions stress the importance of complete openness and free communication. Workplace Safety & Health and Employee Health Management All Beam Suntory production centers have created Safety Management Systems in accordance with OHSAS 18001 Standard for Occupational Health and Safety Management. In addition, Global Safety Standards have been developed that clearly describe safety requirements and expectations. All production centers have developed safe working programs and procedures to meet these requirements. Beam Suntory encourages employee health and wellness. Routine occupational health inspections are conducted and employees are provided access to a wide variety of mental and physical health checks and services. 341 Château Lagrange S.A.S. Head Office 33250, Saint-Julien Beychevelle, France Established December 15, 1983 Business Production and sales of wines activities Website http://www.chateau-lagrange.com Company Overview and Philosophy ■Excellence Château Lagrange has long contributed to the development of lifestyle culture through the production of high quality wines. According to our records, this history goes back to at least 1631. Needless to say, quality wine is a true gift of nature, thanks to what we call terroir, a term used in the wine industry to refer to environmental factors including soil that can influence the quality of the wine. After joining the Suntory Group in 1983, we embraced the group philosophy, To Create Harmony with People and Nature. In order to embody this, we always strive to produce one of the world's finest wines while respecting environmentally friendly production processes, from vine care to bottling. Primary CSR Activities To Create Harmony with Customers and Partners Products and Services ■Quality Management Focusing on quality management and product safety We believe that there are two aspects to quality . One is the quality of the wine itself and the second is quality management in production processes. In terms of the quality of the wine, to ensure our vision of excellence and share that vision with our customers throughout the world, we use integrative farming techniques to produce truly excellent wines. We take meticulous care of each vineyard to let the grapes mature in an optimal manner and to draw out the best characteristics of the locality of the vineyard and the variety of grape. We fully engage in cultivation with reduced agricultural chemicals in which we only use the minimum amount of agricultural chemicals required at vineyards for the health of our customers. Healthy, fully matured grapes cultivated with reduced agricultural chemicals Second is the quality management of manufacturing processes. We at Château Lagrange pursue rigorous quality control by appointing a quality manager to oversee quality control in all processes, from vine pruning to product shipment. In 2007, we installed a state-ofthe-art bottling line to prevent broken glass, insects, or other foreign objects from entering the bottles. We provide safe and attractive products by rigorously conducting a variety of processes, record keeping, and checks that involve quality management. Verifying grape quality 342 Better product analysis and traceability At Château Lagrange, we have great respect for the traditional sales system unique to fine Bordeaux wines, the Place de Bordeaux. In this system, wine merchants purchase wines mainly during the En Primeur (Futures) offer period in particular. It makes it difficult to maintain traceability of wines and attain direct responses from customers as products are pass from merchants to customers. Therefore, to make our products more traceable, we have introduced code numbers on bottle cap seals. Our products undergo a wide variety of product analyses during the manufacturing process and records are Code number printed on each bottle's cap seal kept of the results. We inspect the materials used in all wines, corks, bottles, labels, and cases, and record the results along with these code numbers so that we can trace the history of every bottle of wine we produce. ■Relations with Customers Interacting with Customers and Partners The En Primeur (Futures) system unique to Bordeaux makes it difficult for producers to have direct contact with consumers. However, wine merchants organize many wine tasting events all over the world, allowing us to directly communicate with wine lovers. Maintaining an excellent relationship with our partners around 120 wine merchants in Bordeaux allows us to use a worldwide promotional network to deliver wine to our customers around the globe. Visitors We welcome about 7,000 visitors every year. Visits are on appointment bases and oenologists, sommeliers, chefs, engineering and business school personnel, wine connoisseurs, and wine writers who come for tours and wine tastings. We welcome not only professionals but anyone who loves wine to see the Bordeaux Grand Cru Wine making process while touring the vineyard, fermentation facilities and the warehousing of our aging barrels. Visitors Supplying healthier and reliable products To help our customers lead healthy lives, we have been carrying out research in conjunction with ten other wineries aimed at reducing the use of pesticides at our vineyards and elsewhere. Research into measures against pests, using herbs 343 To Create Harmony with Nature -Environment■Environmental Efforts ISO14001 and HVE certification by the French Ministry of Agriculture Château Lagrange received Terra Vitis certification for ecological integrated agriculture in 2005. We have furthered our activities and received ISO 14001 Environmental management system standard and the highest Level 3 in High Environmental Value (HVE) certification from the French Ministry of Agriculture in 2017. These certifications require compliance as annual aduit for detailed and strict standards regarding biodiversity, plant disease and pest control measures, fertilizer and irrigation management, etc. These certify that we are producing high-quality grapes in a way that protect the environment and health of the workers as well as in a biologically sustainable method. We have also been cultivating grapes using organic farming methods on a roughly 10 ha area of vineyard from 2008 and has been comparing status with area that has received HVE level 3 certification until this today. HVE logo ISO14001 certification Highest Level 3 High Environmental Value (HVE) certification from the French Ministry of Agriculture Amount of water usage reduced Château Lagrange has been working to protect our water resources by determining how much water we use, using it better, and engaging in rigorous conservation efforts. Reducing CO2 emissions to help combat global warming Château Lagrange S.A.S. is one of five environmentally-friendly wineries in France that began measuring the CO 2 emissions. We always strive to revise the production process to reduce greenhouse gas emissions. For example, in 2007 we reduced electricity consumption by 8.5% by modifying our fermentation process. Moreover, 800 m 2 of solar panels installed on the roofs of the fermentation facility in 2019 suppliesabout 15% of power used at the winery. New solar panels installed on the roofs of the fermentation facility Promoting reuse and recycling of materials We compost pruned vine branches and the pressed skins remaining after fermentation to reduce the quantity of fertilizer we purchase. Also, Château Lagrange promotes the 3Rs in resource conservation throughout its operations, utilizing used wine casks, empty chemical product containers, and other materials in an effective manner. In 2011, we stopped using plastic packaging film previously used in the procurement of wine casks. We have received the ISO14001 certification in 2017 due to our continued consideration for the environment and improvements. 344 Preservation of Biodiversity We strive to cultivate grapes in a sustainable manner while preserving diversity of species by adopting hedge and dense growth cultivation at vineyards. Considerations are always made about the diversity of microorganisms in the land, such as placing cut weeds between grape vines as green manure completely free from pesticides and herbicides. A French garden known for the use of colorful plants, pond where wild birds rest, and forest where small critters live along each other stretch in front of the château. There are bee nest for beekeeping in the premises and honey bees fly about from spring to summer. 40 ha of natural forest and gardens spanning the winery Wild birds resting their wings in a Château garden To Create Harmony with Society -Cultural and Social Contributions■Relations with the Local Community Public relations activities Château Lagrange has a dedicated public relations manager and staff who organize and participate in events attended by various organizations, journalists, sommeliers, and wine schools, helping them to understand the secrets of our terroir and our pursuit of quality. Gathering to deepen understanding about wine-making through a wine-making wrkshop Actively involved in the local community Participating in charity auctions, providing donations to local sporting event organizations, and hosting music festivals in the château grounds are some of the ways that Château Lagrange is actively involved in the local community. We supported the construction of the La Cité du Vin wine complex that opened in June 2016 which is shaping the Bordeaux, the holy land of wines worldwide, in cooperation with other châteaus. The Château Lagrange also helps local communities in other ways, such as supporting the internationally-famous Medoc Marathon by supplying water stations for the approximately 8,500 runners who participate each year. Music Festival at Château Garden La Cité du Vin Interior of La Cité du Vin 345 Diversity Management ■Relationship with Employees Creating employee-friendly workplaces Château Lagrange S.A.S. works to respect the rights of employees by putting in place internal employee unions. This is very unusual standard French companies which rarely connect employees throughout the company. This organization follows-up with internal events in order to deepen the friendliness between employees. Internal employee union sky trip Guaranteeing safety and staying healthy Our Health and Safety Committee is responsible for ensuring employees' safety in the workplace, for example, with regards to equipment and tool inspections, verification of workplace ergonomics, product handling, safety testing, and wearing of safety gear such as shoes, hearing protection, and safety goggles. Also, the committee helps the employees manage their health by offering regular medical checkups. 346 Weingut Robert Weil Head Office Mühlberg 5D-65399 Kiedrich Rheingau, Germany Established 1868 (invested in by the Suntory Group in 1988) Business Production and sales of wines activities Website https://www.weingut-robert-weil.com Company Overview and Philosophy ■Dedicated to the highest quality standards Since its founding in 1868, Weingut Robert Weil has pursued a philosophy toward highquality. This is a tradition that has lasted for over 140 years, and has resulted in acclaim from even the German Emperor Wilhelm II. The consistent focus on the Riesling grape [100% Riesling 100% Estate Bootled 100% Riesling Culture Vineyards ] and adhered to a strict, quality-oriented management in the Kiedricher hillside sites vineyard such as stringent pruning to control yields and selective harvesting by hand and in the cellar, where the wines are vinified as gently as possible in stainless steel tanks and traditional casks guarantees the production of highly-esteemed wines. Numerous observers of the international wine world regard Weingut Robert Weil, with its château character , as a worldwide symbol of German Riesling culture. Primary CSR Activities ■CSR Management To Create Harmony with Customers and Partners -Products and ServicesProviding the highest quality with safety Building a system that allows us to create a safe product that our customers can enjoy with peace of mind is one of Weingut Robert Weil's top priorities. We are members of the VDP (Verband Deutscher Prädikatsweingüter), an association of top quality wine producers who self-impose harsh standards for product quality, particularly during grape cultivation and fermentation. ■Relations with Business Partners When locating sources for such items as packaging materials, warehouse refits, and bottling line equipment, we always use a fair and impartial bidding process while still maintaining our utmost priority on product quality and safety. 347 To Create Harmony with Nature -Environment■Environmental Efforts Our vineyards are engaged in grape cultivation using environmentally-friendly methods. We only use organic fertilizers and restrict all use of herbicides. In addition, we protect the qualities of our grapes from insect pests and diseases. We are also working to protect the environment in other ways, i.e. saving water resources. ■Relations with the Local Community Contribution activities to the local community Weingut Robert Weil stays in close contact with the local authorities, the wine authorities and other wineries in the Rheingau area to be actively involved in local activities. To Create Harmony with Employees -Diversity Management■Relationship with Employees Supporting various styles of work As a company, we are a small winery with 30 employees. This makes it all more important that we provide a comfortable workplace that promotes the long-term employment of those who represent the accumulation of our knowledge of winemaking. We are promoting maternity and child raising leave for our employees (several months of paid leave as stipulated by German labor laws) and we support various styles of work for our employees to focus both on their professional and personal lives from the establishment of these programs to a two-month telework system. Employees of Weingut Robert Weil Supporting career development We actively help our employees to develop new skills to help further their careers. We attach great importance of education and trainings for our employees. 348 Sustainability Initiatives Respect for Human Rights With the globalization of business practices, society is increasingly interested in the initiatives that companies take to protect human rights. The Suntory Group considers the respect for human rights of stakeholders a highly important issue and reflects it in its sustainability vision. To promote activities considering human rights, we have formulated the Suntory Group Human Rights Policy to further strengthen existing initiatives by engaging with employees and suppliers. Formulation of the Suntory Group Human Rights Policy The Suntory Group establishes a policy on human rights and promotes its compliance. Suntory Group Human Rights Policy The Suntory Group's mission is to Create Harmony with People and Nature,”while enriching people's lives, contributing to the coexistence of society and nature, and helping realize a thriving society. The Suntory Group recognizes that it may directly or indirectly affect human rights in the course of its business activities, and in order to respect the human rights of all people involved in its business activities, the Suntory Group Human Rights Policy (Hereafter, this policy) set here will promote our efforts to respect human rights. 1. Basic thinking As a member of society, the Suntory Group recognizes the importance of respecting human rights in all business activities. Based on the United Nations Guiding Principles on Business and Human Rights (UNGPs) as a framework for implementation, we comply with relevant laws and regulations in each country or region where we operate, respect international standards of conduct and fully respect the following international human rights principles. We also support and respect the 10 principles of the UN Global Compact as a Global Compact signatory company. ・United Nations (UN) International Bill of Human Rights ・OECD Guidelines for Multinational Enterprises ・ILO Tripartite declaration of principles concerning multinational enterprises and social policy and ILO Declaration on Fundamental Principles and Rights at Work 2. Scope The Suntory Group applies this policy to all Suntory Group executives and employees. We also require all business partners involved in our products and services to understand and comply with this policy. 3. Responsibility for respect for human rights The Suntory Group strives not to violate the human rights of anyone involved in its business activities, and takes appropriate measures to correct any negative impact on human rights, thereby taking responsibility for respect for human rights to build a sustainable supply chain. 4. Due Diligence & Remedy The Suntory Group will establish a human rights due diligence system, identify its potential negative impact on human rights, and work to prevent and mitigate such negative effects. In addition, if it becomes clear that any of its business activities have directly caused negative impacts on human rights, or if indirect effects through business relations become clear, The Suntory Group will commence dialogue based on international standards through appropriate procedures. 349 5. Disclosure The Suntory Group will disclose the progress and results of its efforts to respect human rights on its website, etc. 6. Dialogue In the course of implementing this policy, the Suntory Group takes the advice of independent experts, and will diligently engage in dialogue and consultation with stakeholders. 7. Education and training The Suntory Group provides appropriate education and training to all officers and employees so that this policy will be integrated into all business activities and implemented effectively. 8. Officer in charge The Suntory Group will clarify the officer responsible for the implementation of this policy and ensure its effectiveness. 9. Important themes regarding human rights The Suntory Group aims to realize a corporate group that is rewarding, respects diversity and human rights, and positions the following items based on the Suntory Group Code of Business Ethics as key themes in human rights compliance. ● Child Labor and Forced Labor We strictly prohibit the use of child labor or other illegal labor practices in any of our corporate activities. ● Discrimination and Harassment We will respect the rights and personalities of each individual and will eliminate any and all discrimination and harassment based on reasons from ethnicity, religion, gender, sexual orientation, age, nationality, language or disability to build a workplace where everyone is treated fairly. In the event a violation to human rights is discovered, Suntory will execute the appropriate response immediately and make sure to prevent recurrence while protecting the privacy of the concerned parties. ● Freedom of Association We will respect the basic rights of our employees to engage in freedom of association and collective bargaining. ● Employee-friendly Workplaces We will promote work styles that find balance between the professional and private lives of our employees while building a workplace that allows each person to work safely, securely and with enthusiasm in ways that are healthy both mentally and physically. ● Open-minded Workplaces We will foster an open-minded workplace that respects one another's beliefs, values, and diversity and where each and every employee can candidly express and share their views. We will also build cooperative relationships founded with unity through active communication throughout the Suntory Group. ● Perseverance and Growth We will realize the growth of individuals by fostering a feeling of pride and responsibility toward work in each and every individual so that they may independently persevere in achieving their goals. This policy has been approved by the Board of Directors of Suntory Holdings Wednesday, July 10, 2019 350 Organization to Promote Respect for Human Rights With the formulation of the Suntory Group Human Rights Policy, we promote respect for human rights globally through due diligence under the following organization. In addition, we will continue to respond to human rights issues in Japan through our Human Rights Education Promotion Committee, which consists of a central committee and Human Rights Promotion Committee members from each business location. ■Promotion Organization Dialogue with Experts The Suntory Group held a dialogue with experts on human rights issues from Japan and the rest of the world with the help of CRT Japan in October 2019 to strengthen human rights initiatives throughout the Group. Suntory uses this dialogue to share and discuss its strategies and primary human rights initiatives (in-house and in the supply chain) with experts. Through this dialogue, these experts provided consistent assessment of existing efforts, such as the global expansion of Sedex* to the Suntory supply chain. The feedback offered an objective perspective and expressed the need of further strengthening ethical production activities at our plants and greater awareness to understand the risk of labor issues with foreign workers in Japan in the future. The Suntory Group will strive to heighten the quality of its human rights activities, including those areas pointed out in this dialogue, while promoting its activities by continuing to engage in future dialogue with a broad-range of stakeholders. *Sedex: Collaborative platform for sharing responsible sourcing data on supply chains Participants in Dialogue ・Hiroshi Ishida, Executive Director of CRT Japan ・Livio Sarandrea, Bangkok Regional Hub of the United Nations Development Programme (UNDP) ・Dirk Hoffmann, The Danish Institute for Human Rights ・Camille Le Pors, WBA/CHRB ・Puvan Selvanathan, Bluenumber Foundation 351 Initiatives to Improve Awareness of employees We carry out awareness and educational activities to improve awareness about human rights within the Suntory Group and build a corporate culture that respects human rights. ■Human Rights Workshop between Suntory Employees and external experts In April 2019, under the guidance of human rights experts（CRT Japan), we discussed global trends such as the approval of the United Nations Guiding Principles on Business and Human Rights and the efforts of companies in Japan and overseas, and related departments exchanged opinions regarding the importance of human rights in today's world and the key themes for the Suntory Group. ■Broadening Human Rights Lectures with a Human Rights in the Workplace theme The Suntory Group is holding human rights lectures and seminars at a departmental level in addition to conducting human rights training for new managers, new employees, and other staff in Japan. In 2018, we held the Corporate Human Rights Challenges Toward Sexual Minorities human rights lecture, and expanded the event into a seminar for sales offices throughout Japan viewed primarily through a DVD recording of the talk. Suntory will broaden human rights awareness seminars even further to directly address human rights issues in the workplace from 2020. Human rights seminar ■Prevention of Harassment An employee awareness survey, which includes questions on harassment, is carried out to understand the current status and improve current initiatives. We have put in place a Compliance Hotline as an internal reporting system to make it easier for employees to share their concerns on harassment or other labor issues that go against our Code of Business Ethics principles. In Japan, we provide training, e-learning and other opportunities for the purpose of cultivating proper understanding and awareness in each employee. In 2019, all of our employees participated in e-learning and learned about points of caution related to their conduct through case studies. We are promoting initiatives designed to eliminate all forms of harassment. 352 Human Rights Initiatives in the Supply Chain The Suntory Group promotes human rights initiatives throughout the entire supply chain while linking to business partners by enacting the Basic Policy on Supply Chain Sustainability. ■Risk Assessment through Sedex The Suntory Group joined Sedex, a non-profit organization providing the world’ s largest collaborative platform for sharing responsible sourcing data on supply chains, in June 2019. We promote sharing of information by asking suppliers to join Sedex and respond to questions in the SAQ*. This SAQ evaluates potential social risks in the supply chain by focusing on considerations toward the work environment and occupational safety, including questions about child labor, forced labor, and other human rights issues. *SAQ: Self-Assessment Questionnaire ■Monitoring through Supplier Assessment Questionnaires Suntory conducts sustainable procurement questionnaires at suppliers who have not joined Sedex. We examine not only our existing suppliers to identify those that are at high risk, but also assess potential new suppliers before we start business relationships. In addition, the Suntory Group shares the Suntory Group Supplier Guidelines with our overseas Group companies and verifies initiatives toward sustainability at each company at the Global Procurement Conference in which our overseas Group companies participate. From 2014, the Suntory Group has started to visit and interview its overseas suppliers, asking them about human rights issues such as child labor and forced labor. 353 Dialogue and Evaluation Evaluation from External Parties 354 Evaluation from External Parties Questionnaire Results We received feedback about Suntory Group Sustainability Report 2019 from the total of 213 readers (as of end of May 2020). We are glad to receive high praise and many valuable opinions from the readers. We welcome any opinions or impressions you may have so that we may refer to them in our future reporting and activities. We are happy to receive high evaluation and many precious opinions from the readers. Questionnaire results of Suntory Group Sustainability Report 2019 355 Data Sheet Major Sustainability Data The Suntory Group has brought together its performance for the main indicators (management, environment, and society) on our sustainabilitysite and other media. Main Management Data ■Consolidated financial Results Consolidated Revenue Consolidated operating income Sales by Business Segment Sales by Area 356 Environmental Data The data mainly covers 26 production plants in Japan, 61 production plants overseas owned by Suntory Group. The data for Scope 1 and Scope 2 emissions from 26 production plants in Japan, 61 production plants overseas, and other sites in Japan (base of operations, R&D facilities, sales sites, restaurants and development sites) owned by the Suntory Group's; water usage and waste generation at 26 production plants in Japan and 61 production plants overseas of the Suntory Group, and Scope 3 emissions (Category 1) of the Suntory Group which include Suntory Beverage & Food Group companies received independent assurance from KPMG AZSA Sustainability Co., Ltd. The numerical values assured are indicated with ★. Overview of business activities and environmental impact (from January 1 to December 31 in 2019; manufacturing facilities in Japan, excluding outsourcing contractors) *1 BOD: Biochemical Oxygen Demand An indicator of water pollution *2 Emission factors for GHG calculation are as follows: Fuel: Factors specified by the Act on the Rational Use of Energy and the Act on Promotion of Global Warming Countermeasures. CO2 from Electricity consumption: The adjusted emission factors for each electric company specified by the Act on Promotion of Global Warming Countermeasures. GHG other than CO2: Factors specified by the Act on Promotion of Global Warming Countermeasures. 357 Suntory Group's Environmental Accounting (total of business in Japan) (Period: January 1 to December 31, 2019) (million yen) FY2017 FY2018 FY2019 Item Environmental Environmental Environmental Environmental Environmental Environmental investment costs investment costs investment costs ・Preventing water Pollution pollution prevention 326 2,001 528 2,207 348 2,151 cost ・Air pollution prevention cost, etc. ・CO2 reduction ・Energy Global conservation environmental ・Cogeneration 266 3,444 198 3,020 668 3,090 preservation cost ・Air Business treatment, area etc. cost ・Conserving water through recirculation Resource ・Reducing circulation sludge 67 2,612 287 2,720 331 3,246 cost ・Reusing waste ・Wastewater treatment cost, etc. Total 659 8,058 1,013 7,946 1,347 8,486 ・Commission for Upstream resource recycling and containers and packaging 0 1,133 0 1,290 0 1,238 downstream ・Environmentally-friendly cost containers and packaging measures ・Building and maintaining Environmental Management Management System activities 0 670 0 900 0 927 ・Sustainability Reports, costs Exhibits ・Factory greenification, etc. Research ・Research and development and activities to reduce 1 369 8 379 28 300 development environmental impact costs ・Suntory Natural Water Sanctuary Social ・Bird Conservation Activities activities 90 569 77 504 79 530 costs ・Suntory Mizuiku Natural Water Education Program, etc. Environmental damage 0 0 0 0 0 0 response cost Total 751 10,798 1,098 11,019 1,454 11,480 *Amount of investment: Rea son for investment wa s 50% or more for preser ving the environment, all amount is considered a s environmental investment (inspection basis) *Amortization expense: Expenses for investment from 2003 and afterwards which 50% or more is intended for environmental preservation are calculated. *In general, all cost for management and research activities are directly confirmed. Costs that are difficult to confirm directly are prorated and allocated based on a past survey of each procedure. 358 Environmental Preservation Effect of Suntory Group (production sites in Japan) (Period: January 1 to December 31, 2019) Reduction against previous fiscal Item Unit 2017 2018 2019 year per unit production basis Total (t) 14.4 16.4 16.8 SOx -0.7t/year Reduction Per Unit (g/k) 3.0 3.4 3.5 Pollution of pollutant prevention Total (t) 134.5 147 152 emissions NOx -7.5t/year Per Unit (g/k) 28.5 30.1 31.6 CO2 CO2 (Fuel + Total (thousand t) 369.7 355.9 350.5 8.7 thousand emission Electricity) Per Unit (kg/k) 77.3 73.0 71.2 t/year reduction Derivation Crude oil conversion 104 102 103 Preserving Fuel (thousand k) -2,760k/year global environment Reduction Per Unit (L/k) 22.0 20.9 21.5 In business of energy area costs consumption Total amount 332 335 341 (million kWh) -11,767thousand Electricity kWh/year Per Unit (kWh/k) 70.2 68.5 70.9 Reduction of Total amount 22,361 22,161 21,310 443 thousand water Water (thousand m3） m3/year resource use 3 Per Unit (m /k） 4.7 4.5 4.4 Resource By-products Total (t) 258,459 257,951 251,454 circulation and waste 1,744t/year Reduction emissions Per Unit (kg/k) 52.8 52.7 52.3 of waste emissions Resource recycling （％） 100 100 100 rate *Electricity based CO2 emissions are the adjusted emission factors for each electric power company as specified by the Act on Promotion of Global Warming Countermeasures. Economic effect of Suntory Group (production sites in Japan) （million yen） Item FY2017 FY2018 FY2019 Income from recycling (sales of byproducts)*1 380 355 359 Cost saved by conserving energy*2 510 429 -321 *1 The calculation method is the same as the costs saved for waste disposal < Previous Year's Capital Gains × Ratio Compared to Previous Year's Production Volume Current Year's Capital Gains > *2 The calculation method is the same as the costs saved for waste disposal < Yearly Costs Before Utility × Ratio Compared to Previous Year's Production Volume Current Year's Costs > 359 ■Water Use Performance 2019 Area Water use (thousand m3） Change in amount of usage per unit production* Japan 21,310 2.2% decrease Americas 8,081 3.1% increase Europe 6,245 7.6% decrease Asia 7,154 18.3% decrease Oceania 544 5.2% decrease Africa 129 2.2% decrease Total 43,463★ 7.9% decrease *Data covers 26 production plants in Japan and 61 production plants overseas *Per unit production is the amount of usage per kiloliter produced; the reduction rate is shown as a comparison to the previous year *The reduction rate was 14.2% from 2015, which is the base year. *Therein, the water use by Suntory Beverage & Food Group companies in Japan and overseas was 23,244 thousand m3★ *The numbers marked with ★ are certified by a third party on the Suntory Sustainability website. Water use *Data covers 26 production plants in Japan *Per unit production is the amount of usage per kiloliter produced -Result: Total amount decreased by 3.8% and 2.2% per unit production compared to previous year 360 ■Preventing Global Warming Scope 1/Scope 2 emissions Area CO2 emissions (thousand tons) Per unit reduction rate* Japan 441 1.3%reduction Americas 224 4.8% reduction Europe 118 6.9% reduction Asia 170 6.0% reduction Oceania 14 1.1% reduction Africa 6 35.8% increase Total 973★ (Scope 1: 565★; Scope 2: 408★) 7.6% reduction *Data covers 26 production plants in Japan and 61 production plants overseas, and non-production sites in Japan (base of operations, R&D facilities, sales sites, restaurants and development sites). *The above emissions do not take into account the emissions offset by purchasing carbon credits. If the offset emissions which are approximately 60 thousand tons, are taken into account, the total of Scope 1 and 2 emissions will be 916 thousand tons in 2019. (Carbon credits we purchased were generated from projects, such as a project facilitating reforestation for Guangxi watershed management in Pearl River Basin supported by the BioCarbon Fund of the World Bank.) *CO2 emissions per unit production are the amount of emissions per kiloliter produced; the reduction rate is shown as a comparison to the previous year *Emission factors for GHG calculation are as follows: Fuel: For Japan: Factors specified by the Act on the Rational Use of Energy and the Act on Promotion of Global Warming Countermeasures. For overseas: Factors obtained from fuel suppliers or factors specified by the Act on the Rational Use of Energy and the Act on Promotion of Global Warming Countermeasures. CO2 from Electricity consumption: For Japan: The adjusted emission factors for each electric power company specified by the Act on Promotion of Global Warming Countermeasures. For Overseas: As a general rule, emissions factors obtained from electricity suppliers were used. When those could not be obtained, emission factors for each country in 2017 from IEA World Energy Outlook 2019 were used. GHG other than CO2: For 26 plants in Japan: Factors specified by the Act on Promotion of Global Warming Countermeasures. *Of which, CO2 emissions from the Suntory Beverage & Food Group are 500 thousand tons★ (Scope 1: 240 thousand tons★ Scope 2: 261 thousand tons★). *The change in the amount of emissions from the base year 2015 was a 6.4% increase. *The total may not match the sum of each figure due to rounding. *The numbers marked with ★ are certified by a third party on the Suntory Sustainability website. 361 Scope 3 Emissions (Suntory Group) Emissions Category Calculation Method (thousand tons) Calculated by multiplying the weight of purchased raw materials and packages for products produced and sold by the food and liquor businesses of Suntory Group (Japan 1. Purchased goods and services 3,732★ and overseas) by emissions factors. For products produced and sold in Japan, CO2 emissions by subcontracts during production, during the production of imported products, and during transport of imported ingredients are included. Calculated by multiplying the amount of capital expenditure 2. Capital Goods 378 by the food and liquor businesses of Suntory Group (in Japan and overseas) by emissions factors. Calculated by multiplying the amount of energy consumed 3. Fuel-and energy-related activities not 119 by the food and liquor businesses of Suntory Group (in included in Scope 1 or 2 Japan and overseas) by emissions factors. Calculated by multiplying the transportation volume in 4. U pstream transportation and tons-km of goods owned by the food and liquor businesses 281 distribution of Suntory Group (in Japan and overseas) by emissions factors. Calculated by multiplying the weight of waste disposed by 5. Waste generated in operations 23 the food and liquor businesses of Suntory Group (in Japan and overseas) by emissions factors. Calculated by multiplying the amount of business travel 6. Business travel 10 expenses of the food and liquor businesses of Suntory Group (in Japan and overseas) by emissions factors. Calculated by multiplying the amount of commuting 7. Employee commuting 29 expenses of the food and liquor businesses of Suntory Group (in Japan and overseas) by emissions factors. Calculated by multiplying the floor area of distribution 8. Upstream leased assets 10 centers rented by the food and liquor businesses of Suntory Group (in Japan and overseas) by emissions factors. Calculated by multiplying the transportation volume and 9. Downstream transportation and 206 sales volume of goods of the food and liquor businesses of distribution Suntory Group (in Japan and overseas) by emissions factors. 10. Processing of sold products 0 None Calculated by multiplying the sales volume of goods of the 11. Use of sold products 40 food and liquor businesses of Suntory Group (in Japan and overseas) by emissions factors. Calculated by multiplying the weight of packaging materials 12. E  nd-of-life treatment of sold 261 for products sold by the food and liquor businesses of products Suntory Group (in Japan and overseas) by emissions factors. Calculated by multiplying the amount of electricity used by vending machines leased by the food and liquor businesses 13. Downstream leased assets 530 of Suntory Group (in Japan and overseas) by emissions factors. 14. Franchises 0 None 15. Investments 0 None *Data for the food and liquor businesses of Suntory Group (Japan and overseas). *For some overseas group companies, values were estimated by using Japan-based emission factors and emission per unit production. *The numbers marked with ★ are certified by a third party on the Suntory Sustainability website. 362 Scope 3 Emissions (Suntory Beverage & Food Ltd.) Emissions Category Calculation Method (thousand tons) Calculated by multiplying the weight of purchased raw materials and packages for products produced and sold by the Suntory Beverage & Food Group (Japan and overseas) 1. Purchased goods and services 2,531★ by emissions factors. For products produced and sold in Japan, CO2 emissions by subcontracts during production, during the production of imported products, and during transport of imported ingredients are included. Calculated by multiplying the amount of capital expenditure 2. Capital Goods 220 of Suntory Beverage & Food (Japan and overseas) by emissions factors. Calculated by multiplying the amount of energy consumed 3. Fuel-and energy-related activities not 61 by Suntory Beverage & Food (Japan and overseas) by included in Scope 1 or 2 corresponding emissions factors. Calculated by multiplying the transportation volume in 4. Upstream transportation and 201 tons-km of goods owned by Suntory Beverage & Food (Japan distribution and overseas) by corresponding emissions factors. Calculated by multiplying the weight of waste disposed 5. Waste generated in operations 18 by Suntory Beverage & Food (Japan and overseas) by corresponding emissions factors. Calculated by multiplying the amount of business travel 6. Business travel 7 expenses of Suntory Beverage & Food (Japan and overseas) by corresponding emissions factors. Calculated by multiplying the amount of commuting 7. Employee commuting 20 expenses of Suntory Beverage & Food (Japan and overseas) by corresponding emissions factors. Calculated by multiplying the floor area of distribution 8. Upstream leased assets 8 centers rented by Suntory Beverage & Food (Japan and overseas) by corresponding emissions factors. Calculated by multiplying the transportation volume and 9. Downstream transportation and 167 sales volume of goods of Suntory Beverage & Food (Japan distribution and overseas) by corresponding emissions factors. 10. Processing of sold products 0 None Calculated by multiplying the sales volume of goods 11. Use of sold products 33 of Suntory Beverage & Food (Japan and overseas) by corresponding emissions factors. Calculated by multiplying the weight of packaging materials 12. E  nd-of-life treatment of sold 230 for products sold by of goods of Suntory Beverage & Food products (Japan and overseas) by corresponding emissions factors. Calculated by multiplying the amount of electricity used by vending machines leased by of goods of Suntory Beverage 13. Downstream leased assets 488 & Food (Japan and overseas) by corresponding emissions factors. 14. Franchises 0 None 15. Investments 0 None *Data for the businesses of Suntory Beverage & Food (Japan and overseas). *For some overseas group companies, values were estimated by using Japan-based emission factors and emission per unit production. *The numbers marked with ★ are certified by a third party on the Suntory Sustainability website. 363 CO2 emission reduction *Data covers 26 production plants in Japan *Electricity based CO2 emissions are calculated by the adjusted emission factors for each electric power company as specified by the Act on Promotion of Global Warming Countermeasures. -The total amount of CO2 emissions decreased by 7.4% and CO2 emissions per unit production decreased by 11.0% compared to 2015. Fuel (crude oil conversion) consumption *Data covers 26 production plants in Japan *Crude oil conversion consumption are calculated using a method specified by the Act on the Rational Use of Energy -The total amount of fuel increased by 0.9% and fuel amount per unit production increased by 2.9% compared to 2015. Power consumption *Data covers 26 production plants in Japan -T he total amount of power consumption increased by 1.7% and power consumption amount per unit production increased by 3.5% compared to 2018. 364 CO2 emissions during transportation (business in Japan) Changes in modal shift ratio *Changes in the modal shift ratio are calculated based on long-haul (500km or more) trips Suntory Liquors Ltd.* 1 has been certified as 1st Eco Ship Mark*2 certified company in 2009. In addition, Suntory Liquors Ltd. received an Eco-Rail Mark certification from the Ministry of Land, Infrastructure, Transport and Tourism in 2011. *1 Currently Suntory Spirits Ltd. and Suntory Beer Ltd. *2 E  co-ship Mark system certifies cargo owners and logistic operators that use more than set amount of sea cargo that is friendly to the environment. Screened by Businesses with Excellent Eco Ship and Model Shift Selection Committee Eco Ship mark Eco-Rail mark 365 ■Preventing Air Pollution SOx emissions 2017 2018 2019 Emissions (t) 14.4 16.4 16.8 Per Unit (g/k) 3.0 3.4 3.5 *26 production plants in Japan NOx emissions 2017 2018 2019 Emissions (t) 134.6 147.0 152.0 Per Unit (g/k) 28.5 30.1 31.6 *26 production plants in Japan Quantity of equipment that uses PCB (as of January 2020) Stored Used Total owned Capacitor 3 0 3 Transformer 8 2 10 Stabilizer for lighting device 20 0 20 ■Byproducts and Waste Generation Performance 2019 Area Emissions (thousand tons) Japan 251 Americas 193 Europe 96 Asia 32 Oceania 6 Africa 0 Total 578★ *Data covers 26 production plants in Japan and 61 production plants overseas *Therein, the byproducts and waste generated by Suntory Beverage & Food Group companies in Japan and overseas amount to 151 thousand tons★ *The numbers marked with ★ are certified by a third party on the Suntory Sustainability website. 366 By-products and waste generation *Data covers 26 production plants in Japan 367 By-products and Waste generation, recycling rate and the purpose of use for recycled products 2014 2015 2016 2017 2018 2019 Main Type of Purpose of waste Generation Recycling Generation Recycling Generation Recycling Generation Recycling Generation Recycling Generation Recycling Use (t) Rate (%) (t) Rate (%) (t) Rate (%) (t) Rate (%) (t) Rate (%) (t) Rate (%) Vegetable (glycation, Animal feed 187,439 100 186,184 100 185,227 100 195,334 100 187,818 100 181,524 100 tea,coffee Fertilizer dregs,etc.) Sludge (excess Fertilizer 29,522 100 27,194 100 27,574 100 30,351 100 30,472 100 31,245 100 sludge, etc.) Wood waste Animal feed 2,693 100 1,610 100 2,123 100 1,314 100 4,435 100 2,458 100 (cask, Fertilizer palette) Glass Glass and materials ceramic 3,928 100 4,136 100 3,772 100 3,508 100 3,216 100 2,825 100 Base course scrap material Paper Recycled scraps paper (cardboards, 6,192 100 6,175 100 5,184 100 6,349 100 6,228 100 6,429 100 Cardboard paper materials labels, etc.) Palette -S  olid fuel Plastic 4,287 100 4,938 100 4,956 100 5,918 100 6,138 100 6,338 100 S upplementary fuel Metal Aluminum scraps Steel 3,016 100 3,277 100 3,039 100 2,958 100 3,240 100 3,270 100 (aluminum, ingredients steel) Other 2,725 100 3,182 100 12,729 100 12,632 100 16,405 100 17,365 100 Total 239,801 100 236,697 100 244,604 100 258,365 100 257,951 100 251,454 100 *Data covers 26 production plants in Japan 368 Environmental Education for Employees ■FY2019 Environmental Training Name Target Number of participating employees Onboarding training New employees All (environmental management class) ISO14001 awareness and special Plant employees All education Environmental management training Group employees in Japan 19,901 (e-learning, etc.) Training for newly appointed employees Employees in charge of ISO14001 10 in charge of ISO14001 Internal ISO14001 auditor training Internal ISO14001 auditor 118 Employees in charge of product Eco-products seminar 56 development Environmental Law Training Employees from relevant departments 39 Wastes Disposal and Public Cleansing Act Employees from relevant departments 115 seminar Training held for on-site confirmation Employees from relevant departments 33 of industrial waste Outdoor School of Forest and Water ■ Total number of participants at the Suntory Mizuiku Natural Water Education Program Outdoor School of Forest and Water (total of three schools) 369 ■Total number of participants for Teaching Program at Schools 370 Social Data ■Employment Status Personnel data includes employees who have employment contracts with Suntory Holdings Ltd. and Suntory Beverage & Food Ltd. ■Number of Employees (as of December 31, 2019) （employees） 2015 2016 2017 2018 2019 SHD SBF Total SHD SBF Total SHD SBF Total SHD SBF Total SHD SBF Total Male 42 13 55 41 14 55 45 13 58 43 14 57 44 14 58 Female 3 1 4 4 1 5 2 3 5 2 3 5 1 3 4 Executives 45 14 59 45 15 60 47 16 63 45 17 62 45 17 62 Male 1,392 607 1,999 1,422 627 2,049 1,432 643 2,075 1,459 654 2,113 1,497 668 2,165 Female 166 33 199 185 34 219 200 40 240 217 40 257 231 42 273 Managers 1,558 637 2,195 1,607 661 2,268 1,632 683 2,315 1,676 694 2,370 1,728 710 2,438 Male 2,432 741 3,173 2,429 745 3,174 2,438 741 3,179 2,420 729 3,149 2,375 708 3,083 Female 964 188 1,152 976 205 1,181 995 224 1,219 1,011 239 1,250 1,012 252 1,264 Members 3,396 932 4,328 3,405 950 4,355 3,433 965 4,398 3,431 968 4,399 3,387 960 4,347 Employees 4,954 1,569 6,523 5,012 1,611 6,623 5,065 1,648 6,713 5,107 1,662 6,769 5,115 1,670 6,785 Male 205 45 250 161 42 203 106 31 137 80 28 108 89 30 119 Female 81 15 96 82 22 104 79 19 98 87 113 200 90 115 205 Contract employees, 286 60 346 243 64 307 185 50 235 167 141 308 179 145 324 etc.* Temporary 542 49 591 560 52 612 567 63 630 573 66 639 543 58 601 staff *Contractors and temporary employees: Special contract employees, part-time employees, added SBF partner employees from 2018. *SBF Partner Employees: Temporary staff that have become permanent employees. *SHD: Suntory Holdings Ltd. *SBF: Suntory Beverage & Food Ltd. 371 Number of Employees (as of December 31, 2019) *SHD: Suntory Holdings Ltd. *SBF: Suntory Beverage & Food Ltd. Average age and average length of employment (as of December 31, 2019) 2015 2016 2017 2018 2019 SHD SBF SHD SBF SHD SBF SHD SBF SHD SBF Average age 39.6 41.7 40.8 42.0 41.3 42.3 41.7 42.6 42.1 42.8 Average tenure 16.3 17.3 16.6 17.6 17.1 17.8 17.5 18.1 17.7 18.3 *SHD: Suntory Holdings Ltd. *SBF: Suntory Beverage & Food Ltd. Number of employees （employees） 2015 2016 2017 2018 2019 SHD SBF SHD SBF SHD SBF SHD SBF SHD SBF Male 81 20 79 20 68 17 69 16 70 24 New graduates Female 43 18 43 19 48 20 45 16 47 18 Male 19 2 17 0 13 4 14 5 9 1 Experienced workers Female 8 6 7 5 3 7 11 5 5 0 Total 151 46 146 44 132 48 139 42 131 43 *SHD: Suntory Holdings Ltd. *SBF: Suntory Beverage & Food Ltd. 372 Number of resignees and reasons/turnover rate （employees） 2015 2016 2017 2018 2019 1 Retirement* 42 39 39 66 89 Personal 42 53 43 57 53 circumstances*2 Corporate 0 0 2 1 0 circumstances*3 Other 5 7 4 8 2 4 Total* 89 99 88 132 144 Turnover rate*5 0.64% 0.80% 0.67% 0.86% 0.78% *1 Retirement includes flexible-age retirement *2 Resignees of Suntory Beverage & Food (domestic) is 8 in 2015, 6 in 2016, 11 in 2017, 7 in 2018, AND 11 IN 2019. *3 Company circumstances include factory closings and selling of business. Individual circumstances include employment transfers. *4 Covers employees *5 The turnvoer rate is calculated excluding mandatory age retirement Retention rate of new graduate hires *Calculated for new graduates hired by Suntory Holdings Ltd. that entered the company from 2012 to 2014. *Hiring of new graduates by Suntory Beverage & Food Ltd. started in 2013 with 91% of the new graduates hired in 2013 remaining with the company after five years. Female employment data 373 Number of male and female employees by Management or Non-management position *December 31, 2019 *This is the total of Suntory Holdings Ltd. and Suntory Beverage & Food Ltd. Number of employees with disabilities and employment rate (as of Friday, June 01, 2019) Total actual annual working hours *SHD: Suntory Holdings Ltd. *SBF: Suntory Beverage & Food Ltd. 374 Total actual annual working hours *Official working hours in the standard Suntory Group offices are 7.5 hours a day, 121 vacation days and the annual total official working hours is 1,830 hours. *SHD: Suntory Holdings Ltd. *SBF: Suntory Beverage & Food Ltd. Annual paid vacations taken *SHD: Suntory Holdings Ltd. *SBF: Suntory Beverage & Food Ltd. Results of Employees Taking Child Care Leave 375 Change in the number of employees that took advantage of child or nursing care policies （employees） 2016 2017 2018 2019 2014 2015 SHD SBF SHD+SBF SHD SBF SHD+SBF SHD SBF SHD+SBF SHD SBF SHD+SBF Childcare leave 205 247 252 46 298 275 64 339 251 53 304 257 34 291 Shortened and Male 80 22 102 22 34 56 107 26 133 101 10 111 staggered working hour Female 172 24 196 24 30 54 144 27 171 156 24 180 for child care Newly taking 118 143 148 32 180 179 50 229 63 12 75 66 8 74 childcare leave Number of employees Male 122 33 155 93 24 117 92 22 114 returning after childcare Female 61 9 70 62 13 75 58 17 75 leave Number of employees Male 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 that resigned during childcare Female 2 1 3 0 0 0 0 0 0 leave Ratio of employees Male 100% 100% 100% 100.0% 100.0% 100.0% 100.0% 100.0% 100.0% returning after Child childcare Female 96.8% 90.0% 95.9% 100.0% 100.0% 100.0% 100.0% 100.0% 100.0% and leave nursing Number of care employees remaining Male 80 22 102 118 34 152 108 27 135 at end of the year after taking childcare Female 172 24 196 144 25 169 139 26 165 leave previous year Number of Male 100% 100% 100% 96.7% 100.0% 97.44% 100.0% 100.0% 100.0% Employees Returning from Child Female 98.8% 95.8% 98.5% 94.1% 83.33% 92.35% 96.5% 96.3% 96.5% Care Leave Shortened and staggered 195 192 187 38 225 183 33 216 180 37 217 124 54 178 working hour for child care Nursing leave 2 1 2 0 2 2 0 2 3 0 3 2 0 2 Shortened and staggered 2 3 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 2 0 2 working hour for nursing care Telecommuting 3,196 3,577 3,390 1,070 4,460 3,657 1,188 4,845 3,847 1,329 5,176 4,140 1,534 5,674 Program* Child support leave 663 464 474 65 539 500 83 583 524 75 599 548 102 650 Home helper 0 2 1 0 1 2 0 2 1 0 1 4 0 4 At home child care 37 16 24 2 26 27 2 29 29 5 34 36 8 44 service Vacation Refresh leave 791 933 525 177 702 603 198 801 630 194 824 633 253 886 376 Other Development Programs in Japan Number of Name Description participants 2010～2019 2019 Career Individual tailored program for junior employees to enhance skills needed for Challenge global business (language, cultural awareness, cross-cultural communication, 8 75 Program leadership, logical thinking, management through figures, etc.) Company Sending talented high potential employees to oversea’ s top business schools to study sponsored 4 26 in global environment. MBA Trainees brush up their professional skills, gain language and communication Trainee skills, global business skills, and leadership skills through on the job training at 13 93 program overseas companies. Main self-development programs and the number of participants in FY2019 Type of training Description People Elective training provides approximately 30 different types of courses (twice/year) with training Elective designed to teach the necessary business skills to succeed in the career plans envisioned by our 1052 training* employees This program provides various courses such as in-office English lessons and online lessons aimed Enhancing to enhance business communications skills in English. A wide range of support content is available 246 English ability* so that students can effectively take the course best suited for their skill level. This training program aims to heighten the ability to execute operations and gain the knowledge e-Learning required for operational innovation. 100 The courses include business skills, language acquisition, and computer skills. Financial Support System Suntory provides support for up to half the costs of schools and distance learning programs aimed for Attending at improving students skills (up to maximum limit). 106 School and The courses that can be taken range from the skills necessary to execute operations (accounting, Distance legal knowledge, etc.) to improving language skills and acquiring certifications Learning *These are elective programs that employees can participate on their own accord which the company will take on some of the training costs 377 ■Number of workplace accidents （accidents） 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 2016 2017 2018 2018 Number of occupational accidents 3 3 2 3 4 0 6 1 3 0 (including paid leave and substitute leave) Number of occupational accidents not 14 10 8 12 13 8 18 12 21 14 accompanied by lost work time Number of accidents 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 resulting fatality Total 17 13 10 15 17 8 24 13 24 14 Lost time injury/ illness frequency 0.31 0.30 0.20 0.17 0.34 0.00 0.47 0.08 0.23 0.00★ rate Lost time injury/ illness severity 0.002 0.005 0.009 0.002 0.004 0.000 0.003 0.000 0.001 0.000 rate *Figures through 2012 are only for Suntory Holdings Ltd. and Suntory Beverage & Food Ltd. The figures from 2014 onwards include data on workplace accidents involving full-time employees, special contract employees, and part-time employees for the following Suntory Group companies in Japan: Suntory Holdings Ltd., Suntory Beverage & Food Group companies (Suntory Beverage & Food Ltd., Suntory Foods Ltd., Suntory Beverage Solution Ltd., Suntory Products Ltd.), Suntory BWS Ltd., Suntory Spirits Ltd., Suntory Beer Ltd., Suntory Wine International Ltd., Suntory Liquors Ltd., Suntory Wellness Ltd., Suntory MONOZUKURI Expert Ltd., Suntory Business Systems Ltd., Suntory Communications Ltd., and Suntory Global Innovation Center Ltd. *From FY2016, Suntory has received independent assurance from KPMG AZSA Sustainability, Co., Ltd. The assured value is indicated with ★. *Zero occupational accident in 2019. ■Customer voices to our customer center (Results of 2019: Approx. 87,000) *1 Complaints: Includes expressions of dissatisfaction by customers about products or corporate activities *2 Inquiries and feedback: Includes a wide range of questions and opinions expressed by customers other than complaints 378 ■Main Donations Year Incident Amount Donated Beneficiary News release 2010 Canterbury (Christchurch) Cristchurch earthquake appeal 2010 3.25 million yen Earthquake (New fund Zealand's South Island) Miyazaki Prefecture, and the Foot-and-Mouth Disease Suntory Relief Aid for FootMiyazaki Community Chest 2010 Outbreak in Miyazaki 10 million yen and-Mount Disease in Miyazaki Association Social Welfare Prefecture Prefecture (in Japanese only) Organization Suntory Relief Aid for Earthquake 2010 Chile Earthquake 50 million yen Chile Embassy Recovery in Chile 2010 Haiti Earthquake 10 million yen The Japanese Red Cross Society Suntory Haiti Earthquake Aid Approx. 2.5 million The Government of the Support for Recovery from Flood 2011 Thailand floods yen Kingdom of Thailand Damage in Thailand 2011 Canterbury (Christchurch) Earthquake Relief Donation to 2011 6.2 million yen New Zealand Red Cross Earthquake (New New Zealand Zealand's South Island) Floods in Queensland, Queensland The Premier's Flood Relief Donation to 2011 8 million yen Australia Disaster Relief Appeal Queensland Australia 4.3 billion yen in 2011 2.0 billion yen in 2012 Iwate Prefecture, Miyagi Great East Japan 2.5 billion yen in Prefecture, Fukushima Relief Donation for Earthquake in 2011Earthquake 2013 Prefecture, Save The Children the Tohoku Region of Japan 2.0 billion yen in Japan, et al. 2014 (total: 10.8 billion yen) Landslide disasters in Chugoku Shimbun Social 2014 1 million yen Hiroshima Welfare Services Corporation 2015 Nepal Earthquake 3 million yen Nepal Earthquake 100 million yen in April 2016 Release of Contributions to 2016 Kumamoto Earthquake Kumamoto Prefecture 300 million yen in Kumamoto Prefecture October 2016 Fukuoka Prefecture Storm Disaster in (5 million yen) Fukuoka Prefecture/ Relief Donation for the Storm 2017 Northern Kyushu Oita Prefecture Oita Prefecture Disaster in Northern Kyushu (5 million yen) Aid Following the Approx. 110 million About Aid Following the Massive Massive Hurricane 2017 yen (1 million American Red Cross Hurricane Disasters in the United Disaster in the United dollars) States States Approx. 22 million Aid Following the About Aid Following the 2017 yen Mexican Red Cross Earthquake in Mexico Earthquake in Mexico (200,000 dollars) Approx. 55 million Hurricane Maria Which 2017 yen Virgin Islands Aid Fund Impacted the Virgin Islands (500,000 dollars) 900 million yen Hiroshima Prefecture: Japanese (Hiroshima, Red Cross Society Hiroshima Information About the Donations Torrential Rains of July Okayama, and 2018 Okayama and Ehime Prefectures: for the Torrential Rains of July 2018 (in Western Japan) Ehime Prefectures Aid provided directly to each 2018 received 300 prefectural government million yen each) Information About Support 2018 Hokkaido Eastern 2018 100 million yen Hokkaido Provided for the 2018 Hokkaido Iburi Earthquake Eastern Iburi Earthquake 379 Year Incident Amount Donated Beneficiary News release Support for Midousuji 2018 Ginkgo Namiki,damaged 50 million yen Osaka City by Typhoon No.21 Suntory Pledges ￥50 million to 2019 Typhoon No.15 50 million yen Chiba Prefecture support Typhoon No. 15 Relief and Recovery Iwate Prefecture, Miyagi Prefecture, Fukushima Prefecture, Ibaraki Prefecture, Suntory Pledges ￥550 million to Tochigi Prefecture, Gunma 2019 Typhoon No.19 550 million yen support Typhoon No. 19 Relief and Prefecture, Saitama Prefecture, Recovery Kanagawa Prefecture, Niigata Prefecture, Nagano Prefecture and Shizuoka Prefecture Australian Red Cross, the New South Wales SUNTORY GROUP PLEDGES Support BUSHFIRE Rural Fire Service and the $500,000 TO SUPPORT BUSHFIRE 020 RELIEF and recovery in $500,000 AUD New South Wales Wildlife RELIEF AND RECOVERY IN Australia Information Rescue and AUSTRALIA Education Service (WIRES) 380 Data Sheet GRI Standards Content Index This website is created in accordance with Core level of the Sustainability Reporting Standard of the Global Reporting Initiative (GRI). Universal Disclosures No Disclosure Title Description Reference page title Organizational profile Name of the a.Name of the organization 102-1 ・Company Profile organization Activities, a.A description of the organization's activities. brands, b.Primary brands, products, and services, including an 102-2 ・Our Business products, and explanation of any products or services that are banned in services certain markets. Location of a.Location of the organization's headquarters. 102-3 ・Corporate Overview headquarters a.Number of countries where the organization operates, and the Location of 102-4 names of countries where it has significant operations and/or ・Group Companies operations that are relevant to the topics covered in the report. Ownership and 102-5 a.Nature of ownership and legal form. ・Corporate Overview legal form a.Markets served, including: i.geographic locations where products and services are offered; 102-6 Markets served ・Group Companies ii.sectors served; iii.types of customers and beneficiaries. a.Scale of the organization, including: i.total number of employees; ii.total number of operations; Scale of the iii.net sales (for private sector organizations) or net revenues (for 102-7 ・Corporate Overview organization public sector organizations); iv.total capitalization (for private sector organizations) broken down in terms of debt and equity; v.quantity of products or services provided. a.Total number of employees by employment contract (permanent and temporary), by gender. b.Total number of employees by employment contract (permanent and temporary), by region. c.Total number of employees by employment type (full-time and part-time), by gender. Information on d.Whether a significant portion of the organization's activities 102-8 employees and are performed by workers who are not employees. If ・Employment Status other workers applicable, a description of the nature and scale of work performed by workers who are not employees. e.Any significant variations in the numbers reported in Disclosures 102-8-a, 102-8-b, and 102-8-c (such as seasonal variations in the tourism or agricultural industries). f. An explanation of how the data have been compiled, including any assumptions made. 381 ・Sustainable Procurement a.A description of the organization's supply chain, including its ・Quality Assurance from a 102-9 Supply chain main elements as they relate to the organization's activities, Customer Perspective in All primary brands, products, and services. Processes a.Significant changes to the organization's size, structure, ownership, or supply chain, including:Markets served, including: i.changes in the location of, or changes in, operations, including Significant facility openings, closings, and expansions; 102changes to the Not applicable within this 10 organization and ii.changes in the share capital structure and other capital reporting period its supply chain formation, maintenance, and alteration operations (for private sector organizations); iii.changes in the location of suppliers, the structure of the supply chain, or relationships with suppliers, including selection and termination. Precautionary ・Business Activities and 102a.Whether and how the organization applies the Precautionary Environmental Impact Principle or 11 Principle or approach. approach ・Environmental Management ・Reducing Harmful Drinking: Global Initiatives to Reduce Alcohol Issues a.A list of externally-developed economic, environmental and 102External ・Suntory's Sustainable social charters, principles, or other initiatives to which the 12 initiatives Management: Joining the organization subscribes, or which it endorses. United Nations Global Compact, Signing the CEO Water Mandate a.A list of the main memberships of industry or other 102Membership of associations, and national or international advocacy 13 associations organizations. Strategy a.A statement from the most senior decision-maker of the Statement from 102organization (such as CEO, chair, or equivalent senior senior decision・Top Commitment 14 position) about the relevance of sustainability to the maker organization and its strategy for addressing sustainability. ・Business Activities and Key impacts, Environmental Impact: 102risks, and a.A description of key impacts, risks, and opportunities. Assessing Water Risk 15 opportunities ・Sustainability Vision Ethics and integrity Values, ・Suntory's Sustainable principles, 102a.A description of the organization's values, principles, Management: Suntory standards, 16 standards, and norms of behavior. Group's Corporate and norms of Philosophy behavior a.A description of internal and external mechanisms for: Mechanisms i.seeking advice about ethical and lawful behavior, and ・Compliance: Enhancing the 102for advice and organizational integrity; Hotline for Early Discovery 17 concerns about ii.reporting concerns about unethical or unlawful behavior, and and Resolution of Problems ethics organizational integrity. 382 Governance ・Corporate Governance a.Composition of the highest governance body and its ・Environmental Management: committees Sustainability Management 102Governance Promotion System 18 structure b.Committees responsible for decision-making on economic, environmental, and social topics. ・Sustainability Vision: Promoting Sustainability Management ・Environmental Management: Sustainability Management a.Process for delegating authority for economic, environmental, Promotion System 102Delegating and social topics from the highest governance body to senior 19 authority ・Sustainability Vision: executives and other employees. Promoting Sustainability Management ・Corporate Governance Executive-level a.Whether the organization has appointed an executive・Environmental Management: responsibility level position or positions with responsibility for economic, Sustainability Management 102environmental, and social topics. for economic, Promotion System 20 environmental, b.Whether post holders report directly to the highest ・Sustainability Vision: and social topics governance body. Promoting Sustainability Management a.Processes for consultation between stakeholders and the Consulting highest governance body on economic, environmental, and stakeholders social topics. 102on economic, 21 b.If consultation is delegated, describe to whom it is delegated environmental, and social topics and how the resulting feedback is provided to the highest governance body. a.Composition of the highest governance body and its committees i.executive or non-executive; ii.independence; Composition iii.tenure on the governance body; of the highest 102iv.number of each individual's other significant positions and governance 22 commitments, and the nature of the commitments; body and its committees v.gender; vi.membership of under-represented social groups; vii.competencies relating to economic, environmental, and social topics; viii.stakeholder representation. a.Whether the chair of the highest governance body is also an Chair of executive officer in the organization. 102the highest 23 governance b.If the chair is also an executive officer, describe his or her body function within the organization's management and the reasons for this arrangement. a.Nomination and selection processes for the highest governance body and its committees. b.Criteria used for nominating and selecting highest governance Nominating body members, including whether and how: and selecting 102i.stakeholders (including shareholders) are involved; the highest 24 governance ii.diversity is considered; body iii.independence is considered; iv.expertise and experience relating to economic, environmental, and social topics are considered. 383 a.Processes for the highest governance body to ensure conflicts of interest are avoided and managed. b.Whether conflicts of interest are disclosed to stakeholders, including, as a minimum: 102Conflicts of 25 interest i.cross-board membership; ii.cross-shareholding with suppliers and other stakeholders; iii.existence of controlling shareholder; iv.related party disclosures. Role of highest a.Highest governance body's and senior executives' roles in the governance ・Sustainability Vision: 102development, approval, and updating of the organization's body in setting Promoting Sustainability 26 purpose, value or mission statements, strategies, policies, and purpose, values, Management goals related to economic, environmental, and social topics. and strategy Collective knowledge a.Measures taken to develop and enhance the highest 102of highest governance body's collective knowledge of economic, 27 governance environmental, and social topics. body a.Processes for evaluating the highest governance body's performance with respect to governance of economic, environmental, and social topics. Evaluating b.Whether such evaluation is independent or not, and its the highest frequency. 102governance 28 c.Whether such evaluation is a self-assessment. body's performance d.Actions taken in response to evaluation of the highest governance body's performance with respect to governance of economic, environmental, and social topics, including, as a minimum, changes in membership and organizational practice. a.Highest governance body's role in identifying and managing Identifying economic, environmental, and social topics and their and managing impacts, risks, and opportunities ー including its role in the 102economic, implementation of due diligence processes. 29 environmental, b.Whether stakeholder consultation is used to support the and social highest governance body’s identification and management of impacts economic, environmental, and social topics and their impacts, risks, and opportunities. Effectiveness a.Highest governance body's role in reviewing the effectiveness 102of risk of the organization's risk management processes for economic, ・Risk Management 30 management environmental, and social topics. processes Review of a.Frequency of the highest governance body's review of ・Sustainability Vision: 102economic, economic, environmental, and social topics and their impacts, Promoting Sustainability 31 environmental, risks, and opportunities. Management and social topics Highest governance a.The highest committee or position that formally reviews and 102body's role in approves the organization's sustainability report and ensures 32 sustainability that all material topics are covered. reporting 102Communicating a.Process for communicating critical concerns to the highest 33 critical concerns governance body. Nature and a.Total number and nature of critical concerns that were 102communicated to the highest governance body. total number of 34 critical concerns b.Mechanism(s) used to address and resolve critical concerns. 384 a.Remuneration policies for the highest governance body and senior executives for the following types of remuneration: i.fixed pay and variable pay, including performance-based pay, equity-based pay, bonuses, and deferred or vested shares; ii.sign-on bonuses or recruitment incentive payments; iii.termination payments; 102Remuneration 35 policies iv.clawbacks; v.retirement benefits, including the difference between benefit schemes and contribution rates for the highest governance body, senior executives, and all other employees. b.How performance criteria in the remuneration policies relate to the highest governance body's and senior executives' objectives for economic, environmental, and social topics. a.Process for determining remuneration b.Whether remuneration consultants are involved in Process for 102determining remuneration and whether they are independent determining 36 of management. remuneration c.Any other relationships that the remuneration consultants have with the organization. a.How stakeholders' views are sought and taken into account Stakeholders' regarding remuneration. 102involvement in 37 b.If applicable, the results of votes on remuneration policies and remuneration proposals. a.Ratio of the annual total compensation for the organization's Annual total highest-paid individual in each country of significant 102compensation operations to the median annual total compensation for all 38 ratio employees (excluding the highest-paid individual) in the same country. Percentage a.Ratio of the percentage increase in annual total compensation increase in for the organization's highest-paid individual in each country 102annual total of significant operations to the median percentage increase 39 compensation in annual total compensation for all employees (excluding the ratio highest-paid individual) in the same country. Stakeholder engagement ・Dialogue with Society 102List of stakeholder ・Suntory’s Sustainable a.A list of stakeholder groups engaged by the organization. 40 groups Management: Relations with Stakeholders ・Labor/Management Collective 102a.Percentage of total employees covered by collective Relations: Creating bargaining 41 bargaining agreements. Employee-Friendly agreements Workplaces ・Dialogue with Society Identifying 102a.The basis for identifying and selecting stakeholders with ・Suntory's Sustainable and selecting 42 whom to engage. Management: Relations with stakeholders Stakeholders a.The organization's approach to stakeholder engagement, Approach to including frequency of engagement by type and by ・Dialogue with Society: 102stakeholder stakeholder group, and an indication of whether any of the Brainstorming sessions held 43 engagement engagement was undertaken specifically as part of the report in 2019 preparation process. 385 a.Key topics and concerns that have been raised through stakeholder engagement, including: ・Dialogue with Society: Brainstorming sessions held 102Key topics and i.how the organization has responded to those key topics and in 2019 44 concerns raised concerns, including through its reporting; ・Respect for Human Rights: ii.the stakeholder groups that raised each of the key topics and Dialogue with Experts concerns. Reporting practice Entities a.A list of all entities included in the organization's consolidated included in the financial statements or equivalent documents. 102consolidated b.Whether any entity included in the organization's consolidated 45 financial financial statements or equivalent documents is not covered statements by the report. ・Enhancing Sustainability Activities using ISO26000: Six Prioritized Sustainability a.An explanation of the process for defining the report Initiatives Defining report content and the topic Boundaries. 102・Suntory's Sustainable content and 46 Management: Four topic Boundaries b.An explanation of how the organization has implemented the Reporting Principles for defining report content. Sustainability Initiatives ・Sustainability Vision: Important sustainability themes for the Suntory Group ・Suntory's Sustainable Management: Four 102List of material a.A list of the material topics identified in the process for Sustainability Initiatives 47 topics defining report content. ・Sustainability Vision: Important sustainability themes for the Suntory Group 102Restatements of a.The effect of any restatements of information given in Not applicable within this 48 information previous reports, and the reasons for such restatements. reporting period 102Changes in a.Significant changes from previous reporting periods in the list Not applicable within this 49 reporting of material topics and topic boundaries. reporting period ・Editorial Policy on 102Reporting a.Reporting period for the information provided. Sustainability Information: 50 period Time Frame ・Editorial Policy on 102Date of most a.If applicable, the date of the most recent previous report. Sustainability Information: 51 recent report Published ・Editorial Policy on 102Reporting cycle a.Reporting cycle Sustainability Information: 52 Published Contact point ・Editorial Policy on 102for questions a.The contact point for questions regarding the report or its Sustainability Information: 53 regarding the contents. We welcome your feedback report a.The claim made by the organization, if it has prepared a report Claims of in accordance with the GRI Standards, either: reporting in Our sustainability reporting is 102i.'This report has been prepared in accordance with the GRI accordance done in accordance with Core 54 Standards: Core option'; with the GRI level of the GRI Standards. Standards ii.'This report has been prepared in accordance with the GRI Standards: Comprehensive option' 386 a.The GRI content index, which specifies each of the GRI Standards used and lists all disclosures included in the report. b.For each disclosure, the content index shall include: i.the number of the disclosure (for disclosures covered by the 102GRI content GRI Standards); ・GRI Standards Content Index 55 index ii.the page number(s) or URL(s) where the information can be found, either within the report or in other published materials; iii.if applicable, and where permitted, the reason(s) for omission when a required disclosure cannot be made. a.A description of the organization's policy and current practice with regard to seeking external assurance for the report. b.If the report has been externally assured: ・Reducing CO2 Emissions i.a reference to the external assurance report, statements, or throughout the Value opinions. If not included in the assurance report accompanying Chain: Scope 1/Scope 2 the sustainability report, a description of what has and emissions, Scope 3 Emissions 102External what has not been assured and on what basis, including the (Independent assurance 56 assurance assurance standards used, the level of assurance obtained, and report) any limitations of the assurance process; ・Occupational Health and ii.the relationship between the organization and the assurance Safety: Number of workplace provider; accidents (Independent assurance report) iii.whether and how the highest governance body or senior executives are involved in seeking external assurance for the organization's sustainability report. 103：Management Approach ・Enhancing Sustainability a.An explanation of why the topic is material. Activities using ISO26000: Six Prioritized Sustainability b.The Boundary for the material topic, which includes a Initiatives description of: Explanation of ・Business Activities and i.where the impacts occur; Environmental Impact the material 103-1 ii.the organization's involvement with the impacts. For example, topic and its ・Suntory's Sustainable Boundary whether the organization has caused or contributed to the Management: Four impacts, or is directly linked to the impacts through its Sustainability Initiatives business relationships. ・Sustainability Vision: c.Any specific limitation regarding the topic Boundary. Important sustainability themes for the Suntory Group 387 ・Enhancing Sustainability Activities using ISO26000: Sustainability Action Plan ・Environmental Vision: Suntory Environmental Vision toward 2050, Targets Toward 2020 ・Environmental Vision: Basic Principles of Suntory Group's Environmental Policy ・Sustainable Procurement: a.An explanation of how the organization manages the topic. The Suntory Group's Basic Policy on Supply Chain b.A statement of the purpose of the management approach. Sustainability c.A description of the following, if the management approach ・Respect for Human Rights: includes that component: Suntory Group Human i.Policy Rights Policy The management ii.commitments ・Promotion of Group Quality 103-2 Management: Suntory approach and its iii.goals and targets components Quality Policy iv.Responsibility ・Basic Policy on Social v.resources Activities: Suntory Group vi.Customer Complaint Response Mechanism Basic Policy on Social Activities vii.specific actions, such as processes, projects, programs and initiatives ・Communicating with Customers: Basic Policy on Customer Satisfaction ・Environmental Management: Sustainability Management Promotion System ・Promotion of Group Quality Management ・Compliance ・Sustainability Vision: Promoting Sustainability Management ・Enhancing Sustainability Activities using ISO26000: Sustainability Action Plan ・Quality Assurance from a Customer Perspective in All Processes ・To Create Harmony with Customers and Partners: a.An explanation of how the organization evaluates the Sustainability Action Plan management approach, including: Evaluation of ・To Create Harmony with i.the mechanisms for evaluating the effectiveness of the 103-3 the management management approach; Nature: Sustainability Action approach Plan ii.the results of the evaluation of the management approach; ・FY2019 Targets, Results and iii.any related adjustments to the management approach. Evaluation ・To Create Harmony with Society: Sustainability Action Plan ・To Create Harmony with Employees: Sustainability Action Plan ・Major Sustainability Data 388 Topic-specific Disclosures No Disclosure Title Description Reference page title Economic 201:Economic Performance a.Direct economic value generated and distributed (EVG&D) on an accruals basis, including the basic components for the organization's global operations as listed below. If data are presented on a cash basis, report the justification for this decision in addition to reporting the following basic components: Direct economic i.Direct economic value generated: revenues; 201-1 value generated ii.Economic value distributed: operating costs, employee wages and distributed and benefits, payments to providers of capital, payments to government by country, and community investments; iii.Economic value retained: 'direct economic value generated' less 'economic value distributed'. b.Where significant, report EVG&D separately at country, regional, or market levels, and the criteria used for defining significance. a.Risks and opportunities posed by climate change that have the potential to generate substantive changes in operations, ・Environmental Management: revenue, or expenditure, including: Introducing Environmental Financial i.a description of the risk or opportunity and its classification as Accounting implications and either physical, regulatory, or other; ・Business Activities and other risks and ii.a description of the impact associated with the risk or Environmental Impact: 201-2 opportunities opportunity; Quantitative Evaluation due to climate Through Natural Capital change iii.the financial implications of the risk or opportunity before action is taken; ・Environmental Vision: Suntory Environmental iv.the methods used to manage the risk or opportunity; Vision toward 2050 v.the costs of actions taken to manage the risk or opportunity. a.If the plan's liabilities are met by the organization's general resources, the estimated value of those liabilities. b.If a separate fund exists to pay the plan's pension liabilities: i.the extent to which the scheme's liabilities are estimated to be covered by the assets that have been set aside to meet them; ii.the basis on which that estimate has been arrived at; Defined benefit plan obligations iii.when that estimate was made. 201-3 and other c.If a fund set up to pay the plan's pension liabilities is not fully retirement plans covered, explain the strategy, if any, adopted by the employer to work towards full coverage, and the timescale, if any, by which the employer hopes to achieve full coverage. d.Percentage of salary contributed by employee or employer. e.Level of participation in retirement plans, such as participation in mandatory or voluntary schemes, regional, or countrybased schemes, or those with financial impact. 389 a.Total monetary value of financial assistance i.tax relief and tax credits; ii.subsidies; iii.investment grants, research and development grants, and other relevant types of grant; Financial iv.awards; assistance v.royalty holidays; Not applicable within this 201-4 received from vi.financial assistance from Export Credit Agencies (ECAs); reporting period government vii.financial incentives; viii.other financial benefits received or receivable from any government for any operation. b.The information in 201-4-a by country. c.Whether, and the extent to which, any government is present in the shareholding structure. 202:Market Presence a.When a significant proportion of employees are compensated based on wages subject to minimum wage rules, report the relevant ratio of the entry level wage by gender at significant locations of operation to the minimum wage. Ratios of b.When a significant proportion of other workers (excluding standard entry employees) performing the organization's activities are level wage compensated based on wages subject to minimum wage rules, Not applicable within this 202-1 by gender describe the actions taken to determine whether these workers reporting period compared to are paid above the minimum wage. local minimum wage c.Whether a local minimum wage is absent or variable at significant locations of operation, by gender. In circumstances in which different minimums can be used as a reference, report which minimum wage is being used. d.The definition used for 'significant locations of operation'. a.Percentage of senior management at significant locations of Proportion operation that are hired from the local community. of senior ・Basic Policy on Human 202-2 management b.The definition used for 'senior management'. Resource: Commitment to hired from the c.The organization's geographical definition of 'local'. Local Employment local community d.The definition used for 'significant locations of operation'. 203:Indirect Economic Impacts a.Extent of development of significant infrastructure investments ・Suntory Natural Water and services supported. Sanctuary Infrastructure b.Current or expected impacts on communities and local ・Bird Conservation Activities investments 203-1 economies, including positive and negative impacts where and services ・Social Welfare relevant. supported c.Whether these investments and services are commercial, in・Arts, Culture and Academic kind, or pro bono engagements. Activities a.Examples of significant identified indirect economic impacts Significant of the organization, including positive and negative impacts. indirect b.Significance of the indirect economic impacts in the context Not applicable within this 203-2 economic of external benchmarks and stakeholder priorities, such as reporting period impacts national and international standards, protocols, and policy agendas. 390 204:Procurement Practices a.Percentage of the procurement budget used for significant locations of operation that is spent on suppliers local to Proportion of that operation (such as percentage of products and services ・Sustainable Procurement: 204-1 spending on purchased locally). Procurement Ratio by local suppliers Supplier Region b.The organization's geographical definition of 'local'. c.The definition used for 'significant locations of operation'. 205:Anti Corruption Operations a.Total number and percentage of operations assessed for risks assessed for related to corruption. 205-1 risks related to b.Significant risks related to corruption identified through the corruption risk assessment. a.Total number and percentage of governance body members that the organization's anti-corruption policies and procedures have been communicated to, broken down by region. b.Total number and percentage of employees that the organization's anti-corruption policies and procedures have been communicated to, broken down by employee category and region. Communication c.Total number and percentage of business partners that the and training ・Compliance organization's anti-corruption policies and procedures have about anti205-2 been communicated to, broken down by type of business ・Risk Management: Anticorruption partner and region. Describe if the organization's antibribery policies and corruption policies and procedures have been communicated procedures to any other persons or organizations. d.Total number and percentage of governance body members that have received training on anti-corruption, broken down by region. e.Total number and percentage of employees that have received training on anti-corruption, broken down by employee category and region. a.Total number and nature of confirmed incidents of corruption. b.Total number of confirmed incidents in which employees were dismissed or disciplined for corruption. Confirmed incidents of c.Total number of confirmed incidents when contracts with Not applicable within this 205-3 business partners were terminated or not renewed due to corruption and reporting period actions taken violations related to corruption. d.Public legal cases regarding corruption brought against the organization or its employees during the reporting period and the outcomes of such cases. 206:Anti competitive Behavior Legal actions for a.Number of legal actions pending or completed during the anti-competitive reporting period regarding anti-competitive behavior and behavior, antiviolations of anti-trust and monopoly legislation in which the Not applicable within this 206-1 organization has been identified as a participant. trust, and reporting period monopoly b.Main outcomes of completed legal actions, including any practices decisions or judgments. Environment 301:Materials a.Total weight or volume of materials that are used to produce ・Business Activities and Materials used and package the organization’ s primary products and services Environmental Impact: 301-1 by weight or during the reporting period, by: Overview of business volume i.non-renewable materials used; activities and environmental ii.renewable materials used. impact 391 Recycled input a.Percentage of recycled input materials used to manufacture 301-2 materials used the organization's primary products and services. Reclaimed a.Percentage of reclaimed products and their packaging ・Promoting the Reduction products and materials for each product category. and Recycling of Waste: 301-3 their packaging Maintaining a 100% materials b.How the data for this disclosure have been collected. Resource Recycling Rate 302：Energy a. Total fuel consumption within the organization from nonrenewable sources, in joules or multiples, and including fuel types used. b. Tot a l f uel consumption within the org a niz ation f rom renewable sources, in joules or multiples, and including fuel types used. c.In joules, watt-hours or multiples, the total: i.Power consumption ii.heating consumption iii.cooling consumption ・Data Sheet (Major Energy Sustainability Data): Fuel consumption iv.steam consumption 302-1 (crude oil conversion) within the d.In joules, watt-hours or multiples, the total: consumption, Power organization i.electricity sold consumption ii.heating sold iii.cooling sold iv.steam sold e.Total energy consumption within the organization, in joules or multiples. f. Standards, methodologies, assumptions, and/or calculation tools used. g.Source of the conversion factors used. a. Energy consumption outside of the organization, in joules or Energy multiples. consumption 302-2 b. Standards, methodologies, assumptions, and/or calculation outside of the tools used. organization c.Source of the conversion factors used. a.Energy intensity ratio for the organization. b. Organization-specific metric (the denominator) chosen to ・Data Sheet (Major calculate the ratio. Sustainability Data): Fuel 302-3 Energy intensity c. Types of energy included in the intensity ratio; whether fuel, (crude oil conversion) electricity, heating, cooling, steam, or all. consumption, Power consumption d. Whether the ratio uses energ y consumption within the organization, outside of it, or both. a. Amount of reductions in energy consumption achieved as a direct result of conservation and efficiency initiatives, in joules or multiples. b. Types of energy included in the reductions; whether fuel, ・Data Sheet (Major Reduction electricity, heating, cooling, steam, or all. Sustainability Data): 302-4 of energy Environmental Preservation consumption c. Basis for calculating reductions in energy consumption, such Effect of Suntory Group as base year or baseline, including the rationale for choosing (production sites in Japan) it. d. Standards, methodologies, assumptions, and/or calculation tools used. 392 a. Reductions in energy requirements of sold products and services achieved during the reporting period, in joules or Reductions multiples. in energy b. Basis for calculating reductions in energy consumption, such 302-5 requirements as base year or baseline, including the rationale for choosing of products and it. services c. Standards, methodologies, assumptions, and/or calculation tools used. 303:Water and Effluents 2018 a.A description of how the organization interacts with water, including how and where water is withdrawn, consumed, and discharged, and the water-related impacts caused or contributed to, or directly linked to the organization's activities, products or services by a business relationship (e.g., impacts caused by runoff). ・Water Sustainability b.A description of the approach used to identify water-related impacts, including the scope of assessments, their timeframe, ・Sustainable Water Philosophy Interactions 303-1 with water as a and any tools or methodologies used. ・Environmental Vision： shared resource c.A description of how water-related impacts are addressed, Environmental Vision toward including how the organization works with stakeholders to 2050 and Environmental steward water as a shared resource, and how it engages with Targets toward 2030 suppliers or customers with significant water-related impacts. d.An explanation of the process for setting any waterrelated goals and targets that are part of the organization's management approach, and how they relate to public policy and the local context of each area with water stress. a.A description of any minimum standards set for the quality of effluent discharge, and how these minimum standards were determined, including: Management i.how standards for facilities operating in locations with no local ・Effective Use of Water of water discharge requirements were determined; 303-2 Resources：Comprehensive dischargeii.any internally developed water quality standards or guidelines; Waste Water Management related impacts iii.any sector-specific standards considered; iv.whether the profile of the receiving waterbody was considered. a.Total water withdrawal from all areas in megaliters, and a breakdown of this total by the following sources, if applicable: i.Surface water; ii.Groundwater; iii.Seawater; iv.Produced water; v.Third-party water. b.Total water withdrawal from all areas with water stress in megaliters, and a breakdown of this total by the following sources, if applicable: i.Surface water; ・Effective Use of Water Water ii.Groundwater; 303-3 Resources：Amount of water withdrawal iii.Seawater; usage by water source iv.Produced water; v.Third-party water, and a breakdown of this total by the withdrawal sources listed in i-iv. c.A breakdown of total water withdrawal from each of the sources listed in Disclosures 303-3-a and 303-3-b in megaliters by the following categories: i.Freshwater (≤1,000 mg/ Total Dissolved Solids); ii.Other water (>1,000 mg/ Total Dissolved Solids). d.Any contextual information necessary to understand how the data have been compiled, such as any standards, methodologies, and assumptions used. 393 a.Total water discharge to all areas in megaliters, and a breakdown of this total by the following types of destination, if applicable: i.Surface water; ii.Groundwater; iii.Seawater; iv.Third-party water, and the volume of this total sent for use to other organizations, if applicable. b.A breakdown of total water discharge to all areas in megaliters by the following categories: i.Freshwater (≤1,000 mg/ Total Dissolved Solids); ii.Other water (>1,000 mg/ Total Dissolved Solids). c.Total water discharge to all areas with water stress in ・Effective Use of Water 303-4 Water discharge megaliters, and a breakdown of this total by the following Resources：Water use categories: i.Freshwater (≤1,000 mg/ Total Dissolved Solids); ii.Other water (>1,000 mg/ Total Dissolved Solids). d.Priority substances of concern for which discharges are treated, including: i.how priority substances of concern were defined, and any international standard, authoritative list, or criteria used; ii.the approach for setting discharge limits for priority substances of concern; iii.number of incidents of non-compliance with discharge limits. e.Any contextual information necessary to understand how the data have been compiled, such as any standards, methodologies, and assumptions used. a.Total water consumption from all areas in megaliters. b.Total water consumption from all areas with water stress in megaliters. c.Change in water storage in megaliters, if water storage has Water been identified as having a significant water-related impact. ・Major Sustainability Data： 303-5 consumption d.Any contextual information necessary to understand Water use how the data have been compiled, such as any standards, methodologies, and assumptions used, including whether the information is calculated, estimated, modeled, or sourced from direct measurements, and the approach taken for this, such as the use of any sector-specific factors. 304:Biodiversity a.For each operational site owned, leased, managed in, or adjacent to, protected areas and areas of high biodiversity value outside protected areas, the following information: i.geographic location; ii.subsurface and underground land that may be owned, leased, or managed by the organization; Operational sites owned, leased, iii.position in relation to the protected area (in the area, managed in, adjacent to, or containing portions of the protected area) or or adjacent to, the high biodiversity value area outside protected areas; 304-1 protected areas iv.t ype of operation (office, manufacturing or production, or and areas of extractive); high biodiversity v.size of operational site in km2 (or another unit, if appropriate); value outside protected areas vi.biodiversity value characterized by the attribute of the protected area or area of high biodiversity value outside the protected area (terrestrial, freshwater, or maritime ecosystem); vii.biodiversity value characterized by listing of protected status (such as IUCN Protected Area Management Categories, Ramsar Convention, national legislation). 394 a.Nature of significant direct and indirect impacts on biodiversity with reference to one or more of the following: i.construction or use of manufacturing plants, mines, and transport infrastructure; ii.pollution (introduction of substances that do not naturally occur in the habitat from point and non-point sources); Significant iii.introduction of invasive species, pests, and pathogens; impacts of iv.reduction of species; activities, v.habitat conversion; 304-2 products, and services on vi.changes in ecological processes outside the natural range of biodiversity variation (such as salinity or changes in groundwater level). b.Significant direct and indirect positive and negative impacts with reference to the following: i.species affected; ii.extent of areas impacted; iii.duration of impacts; iv.reversibility or irreversibility of the impacts. a.Size and location of all habitat areas protected or restored, and whether the success of the restoration measure was or is approved by independent external professionals. b.Whether partnerships exist with third parties to protect or Habitats restore habitat areas distinct from where the organization ・Natural Water Sanctuaries 304-3 protected or has overseen and implemented restoration or protection (Water Resource Cultivation/ restored measures. Preserving Biodiversity) c.Status of each area based on its condition at the close of the reporting period. d.Standards, methodologies, and assumptions used. a.Total number of IUCN Red List species and national IUCN Red conservation list species with habitats in areas affected by the List species operations of the organization, by level of extinction risk: and national i.critically endangered conservation Not applicable within this 304-4 ii.endangered list species with reporting period habitats in areas iii.vulnerable affected by iv.near threatened operations v.least concern 305:Emissions a.Gross direct (Scope 1) GHG emissions in metric tons of CO2equivalent. b.Gases included in the calculation; whether CO2, CH4, N2O, HFCs, PFCs, SF 6 , NF3, or all. c.Biogenic CO2 emissions in metric tons of CO2 equivalent. d.Base year for the calculation, if applicable, including: i.the rationale for choosing it; ・Data Sheet (Major Direct (Scope 1) ii.emissions in the base year; 305-1 Sustainability Data): Scope 1/ GHG emissions iii.the context for any significant changes in emissions that Scope 2 emissions triggered recalculations of base year emissions. e.Source of the emission factors and the global warming potential (GWP) rates used, or a reference to the GWP source. f.Consolidation approach for emissions; whether equity share, financial control, or operational control. g.Standards, methodologies, assumptions, and/or calculation tools used. 395 a.Gross location-based energy indirect (Scope 2) GHG emissions in metric tons of CO2 equivalent. b.If applicable, gross market-based energy indirect (Scope 2) GHG emissions in metric tons of CO2 equivalent. c.If available, the gases included in the calculation; whether CO2, CH4, N2O, HFCs, PFCs, SF 6, NF3, or all. d.Base year for the calculation, if applicable, including: Energy indirect i.the rationale for choosing it; ・Data Sheet (Major 305-2 (Scope 2) GHG ii.emissions in the base year; Sustainability Data): Scope 1/ emissions Scope 2 emissions iii.the context for any significant changes in emissions that triggered recalculations of base year emissions. e.Source of the emission factors and the global warming potential (GWP) rates used, or a reference to the GWP source. f. Consolidation approach for emissions; whether equity share, financial control, or operational control. g.Standards, methodologies, assumptions, and/or calculation tools used. a.Gross other indirect (Scope 3) GHG emissions in metric tons of CO2 equivalent. b.If available, the gases included in the calculation; whether CO2, CH4, N2O, HFCs, PFCs, SF 6, NF3, or all. c.Biogenic CO2 emissions in metric tons of CO2 equivalent. d.Other indirect (Scope 3) GHG emissions categories and activities included in the calculation. Other indirect e.Base year for the calculation, if applicable, including: ・Reducing CO2 Emissions 305-3 (Scope 3) GHG throughout the Value Chain: emissions i.the rationale for choosing it; Scope 3 emissions ii.emissions in the base year; iii.the context for any significant changes in emissions that triggered recalculations of base year emissions. f. Source of the emission factors and the global warming potential (GWP) rates used, or a reference to the GWP source. g. Standards, methodologies, assumptions, and/or calculation tools used. a. GHG emissions intensity ratio for the organization. b.Organization-specific metric (the denominator) chosen to calculate the ratio. ・Data Sheet (Major GHG emissions c.Types of GHG emissions included in the intensity ratio; 305-4 Sustainability Data): CO2 intensity whether direct (Scope 1), energy indirect (Scope 2), and/or emissions other indirect (Scope 3). d.Gases included in the calculation; whether CO2, CH4, N2O, HFCs, PFCs, SF 6, NF3, or all. a.GHG emissions reduced as a direct result of reduction initiatives, in metric tons of CO2 equivalent. b.Gases included in the calculation; whether CO2, CH4, N2O, ・Data Sheet (Major HFCs, PFCs,SF 6, NF3, or all. Sustainability Data): Reduction of 305-5 c.Base year or baseline, including the rationale for choosing it. Environmental Preservation GHG emissions d.Scopes in which reductions took place; whether direct (Scope Effect of Suntory Group 1), energy indirect (Scope 2), and/or other indirect (Scope 3). (production sites in Japan) e.Standards, methodologies, assumptions, and/or calculation tools used. a.Production, imports, and exports of ODS in metric tons of CFC-11 (trichlorofluoromethane) equivalent. Emissions of ozone-depleting b.Substances included in the calculation. 305-6 substances c.Source of the emission factors used. (ODS) d.Standards, methodologies, assumptions, and/or calculation tools used. 396 a.Significant air emissions, in kilograms or multiples, for each of the following: i.NOx ii.SOx iii.persistent organic pollutants (POP) Nitrogen oxides (NOx), sulfur iv.volatile organic compounds (VOC) ・Data Sheet (Major 305-7 oxides (SOx), and v.hazardous air pollutants (HAP) Sustainability Data): other significant Preventing Air Pollution vi.particulate matter (PM) air emissions vii.other standard categories of air emissions identified in relevant regulations b.Source of the emission factors used. c.Standards, methodologies, assumptions, and/or calculation tools used. 306:Effluents and Waste a.Total volume of planned and unplanned water discharges by: Water discharge i.destination; ・Effective Use of Water 306-1 by quality and ii.quality of the water, including treatment method; Resources: Water discharge destination iii.whether the water was reused by another organization. b.Standards, methodologies, and assumptions used. a.Total weight of hazardous waste, with a breakdown by the following disposal methods where applicable: i.reuse ii.recycling iii.composting iv.recovery, including energy recovery v.incineration (mass burn) vi.deep well injection vii.landfill viii.on-site storage ix.other (to be specified by the organization) b.Total weight of non-hazardous waste, with a breakdown by ・Data Sheet (Major the following disposal methods where applicable: Sustainability Data): ByWaste by type i.reuse products and Waste 306-2 and disposal Generation, Recycling rate method ii.recycling and the purpose of use for iii.composting recycled products iv.recovery, including energy recovery v.incineration (mass burn) vi.deep well injection vii.landfill viii.on-site storage ix.other (to be specified by the organization) c.How the waste disposal method has been determined: i.disposed of directly by the organization, or otherwise directly confirmed ii.information provided by the waste disposal contractor iii.organizational defaults of the waste disposal contractor 397 a.Total number and total volume of recorded significant spills. b.The following additional information for each spill that was reported in the organization's financial statements: i.location of spill; ii.volume of spill; Not applicable within this 306-3 Significant spills reporting period iii.material of spill, categorized by: oil spills (soil or water surfaces), fuel spills (soil or water surfaces), spills of wastes (soil or water surfaces), spills of chemicals (mostly soil or water surfaces), and other (to be specified by the organization). c.Impacts of significant spills. a.Total weight for each of the following: i.hazardous waste transported ii.hazardous waste imported Transport of Not applicable within this 306-4 iii.hazardous waste exported hazardous waste reporting period iv.hazardous waste treated b.Percentage of hazardous waste shipped internationally. c.Standards, methodologies, and assumptions used. a.Water bodies and related habitats that are significantly affected by water discharges and/or runoff, including information on: Water bodies affected by i.the size of the water body and related habitat; Not applicable within this 306-5 water discharges ii.whether the water body and related habitat is designated as a reporting period and/or runof nationally or internationally protected area; iii.the biodiversity value, such as total number of protected species. 307:Environmental Compliance a.S ignificant fines and non-monetar y sanc tions for noncompliance with environmental laws and/or regulations in terms of: Noncompliance with i.total monetary value of significant fines; Not applicable within this 307-1 environmental ii.total number of non-monetary sanctions; reporting period laws and iii.cases brought through dispute resolution mechanisms. regulations b.If the organization has not identified any non-compliance with environmental laws and/or regulations, a brief statement of this fact is sufficient. 308:Supplier Environmental Assessment New suppliers ・Sustainable Procurement: that were a.Percentage of new suppliers that were screened using Promoting Sustainability 308-1 screened using environmental criteria. Activities Throughout the environmental Entire Supply Chain criteria a.Number of suppliers assessed for environmental impacts. b.Number of suppliers identified as having significant actual and potential negative environmental impacts. c.Significant actual and potential negative environmental Negative impacts identified in the supply chain. environmental 308-2 impacts in the d.Percentage of suppliers identified as having significant actual supply chain and and potential negative environmental impacts with which actions taken improvements were agreed upon as a result of assessment. e.Percentage of suppliers identified as having significant actual and potential negative environmental impacts with which relationships were terminated as a result of assessment, and why. 398 Social 401:Employment a.Total number and rate of new employee hires during the ・Data Sheet (Major New employee reporting period, by age group, gender and region. Sustainability Data): Number hires and 401-1 b.Total number and rate of employee turnover during the of employees, Number of employee reporting period, by age group, gender and region. resignees and reasons/ turnover turnover rate a.Benefits which are standard for full-time employees of the organization but are not provided to temporary or parttime employees, by significant locations of operation. These include, as a minimum: Benefits i.life insurance; provided to fulltime employees ii.health care; that are not iii.disability and invalidity coverage; 401-2 provided to iv.parental leave; temporary or part-time v.retirement provision; employees vi.stock ownership; vii.Other b.The definition used for 'significant locations of operation'. a.Total number of employees that were entitled to parental ・Promoting Work-Life leave, by gender. Balance: Change in the b.Total number of employees that took parental leave, by number of employees that gender. took advantage of child or nursing care policies c.Total number of employees that returned to work in the 401-3 Parental leave reporting period after parental leave ended, by gender. ・Data Sheet (Major Sustainability Data): Results d.Total number of employees that returned to work after of Employees Taking Child parental leave ended that were still employed 12 months after Care Leave, Change in the their return to work, by gender. number of employees that e.Return to work and retention rates of employees that took took advantage of child or parental leave, by gender. nursing care policies 402:Labor/Management Relations a.Minimum number of weeks' notice typically provided to employees and their representatives prior to the Minimum implementation of significant operational changes that could notice periods substantially affect them. 402-1 regarding operational b.For organizations with collective bargaining agreements, changes report whether the notice period and provisions for consultation and negotiation are specified in collective agreements. 403:Occupational Health and Safety 2018 a.A statement of whether an occupational health and safety management system has been implemented, including whether: i.the system has been implemented because of legal Occupational requirements and, if so, a list of the requirements; health 403-1 and safety ii.the system has been implemented based on recognized risk management management and/or management system standards/guidelines system and, if so, a list of the standards/guidelines. b.A description of the scope of workers, activities, and workplaces covered by the occupational health and safety management system, and an explanation of whether and, if so, why any workers, activities, or workplaces are not covered. 399 a.A description of the processes used to identify work-related hazards and assess risks on a routine and non-routine basis, and to apply the hierarchy of controls in order to eliminate hazards and minimize risks, including: i.how the organization ensures the quality of these processes, including the competency of persons who carry them out; ii.how the results of these processes are used to evaluate and continually improve the occupational health and safety management system. Hazard b.A description of the processes for workers to report work・Occupational Health and identification, related hazards and hazardous situations, and an explanation Safety：Achieving Zero 403-2 risk assessment, of how workers are protected against reprisals. Workplace Accidents in and incident Manufacturing investigation c.A description of the policies and processes for workers to remove themselves from work situations that they believe could cause injury or ill health, and an explanation of how workers are protected against reprisals. d.A description of the processes used to investigate workrelated incidents, including the processes to identify hazards and assess risks relating to the incidents, to determine corrective actions using the hierarchy of controls, and to determine improvements needed in the occupational health and safety management system. a.A description of the occupational health services' functions that contribute to the identification and elimination of Occupational 403-3 hazards and minimization of risks, and an explanation of how health services the organization ensures the quality of these services and facilitates workers' access to them. a.A description of the processes for worker participation and consultation in the development, implementation, and Worker evaluation of the occupational health and safety management participation, system, and for providing access to and communicating consultation, relevant information on occupational health and safety to ・Occupational Health and and workers. 403-4 Safety：Commitment to communication b.Where formal joint management-worker health and safety Workplace Safety on occupational health and committees exist, a description of their responsibilities, safety meeting frequency, decision-making authority, and whether and, if so, why any workers are not represented by these committees. Worker training a.A description of any occupational health and safety training ・Occupational Health and on occupational provided to workers, including generic training as well as 403-5 Safety：Occupational Health health and training on specific work-related hazards, hazardous activities, and Safety Education safety or hazardous situations. a.An explanation of how the organization facilitates workers' access to non-occupational medical and healthcare services, and the scope of access provided. ・Health management：A Promotion of b.A description of any voluntary health promotion services 403-6 Variety of Programs to worker health and programs offered to workers to address major nonPromote Employee Health work-related health risks, including the specific health risks addressed, and how the organization facilitates workers' access to these services and programs. Prevention and mitigation of a.A description of the organization's approach to preventing or occupational mitigating significant negative occupational health and safety health and ・Promoting Distribution 403-7 impacts that are directly linked to its operations, products or safety impacts Considering Safety services by its business relationships, and the related hazards directly linked and risks. by business relationships 400 a.If the organization has implemented an occupational health and safety management system based on legal requirements and/or recognized standards/guidelines: i.the number and percentage of all employees and workers who are not employees but whose work and/or workplace is controlled by the organization, who are covered by such a system; Workers ii.the number and percentage of all employees and workers covered by an who are not employees but whose work and/or workplace occupational is controlled by the organization, who are covered by such a 403-8 health system that has been internally audited; and safety management iii.the number and percentage of all employees and workers system who are not employees but whose work and/or workplace is controlled by the organization, who are covered by such a system that has been audited or certified by an external party. b.Whether and, if so, why any workers have been excluded from this disclosure, including the types of worker excluded. c.Any contextual information necessary to understand how the data have been compiled, such as any standards, methodologies, and assumptions used. a.For all employees: i.The number and rate of fatalities as a result of work-related injury; ii.The number and rate of high-consequence work-related injuries (excluding fatalities); iii.The number and rate of recordable work-related injuries; iv.The main types of work-related injury; v.The number of hours worked. b.For all workers who are not employees but whose work and/or workplace is controlled by the organization: i.The number and rate of fatalities as a result of work-related injury; ii.The number and rate of high-consequence work-related injuries (excluding fatalities); iii.The number and rate of recordable work-related injuries; ・Occupational Health and iv.The main types of work-related injury; Safety：Number of workplace Work-related accidents 403-9 v.The number of hours worked. injuries c.The work-related hazards that pose a risk of high-consequence ・Major Sustainability Data： injury, including: umber of workplace accidents i.how these hazards have been determined; ii.which of these hazards have caused or contributed to highconsequence injuries during the reporting period; iii.actions taken or underway to eliminate these hazards and minimize risks using the hierarchy of controls. d.Any actions taken or underway to eliminate other workrelated hazards and minimize risks using the hierarchy of controls. e.Whether the rates have been calculated based on 200,000 or 1,000,000 hours worked. f.Whether and, if so, why any workers have been excluded from this disclosure, including the types of worker excluded. g.Any contextual information necessary to understand how the data have been compiled, such as any standards, methodologies, and assumptions used. 401 a.For all employees: i.The number of fatalities as a result of work-related ill health; ii.The number of cases of recordable work-related ill health; iii.The main types of work-related ill health. b.For all workers who are not employees but whose work and/or workplace is controlled by the organization: i.The number of fatalities as a result of work-related ill health; ii.The number of cases of recordable work-related ill health; iii.The main types of work-related ill health. 403Work-related ill c.The work-related hazards that pose a risk of ill health, 10 health including: i.how these hazards have been determined; ii.which of these hazards have caused or contributed to cases of ill health during the reporting period; iii.actions taken or underway to eliminate these hazards and minimize risks using the hierarchy of controls. d.Whether and, if so, why any workers have been excluded from this disclosure, including the types of worker excluded. e.Any contextual information necessary to understand how the data have been compiled, such as any standards, methodologies, and assumptions used. 404:Training and Education a.Average hours of training that the organization's employees Average hours of have undertaken during the reporting period, by: 404-1 training per year i.gender. per employee ii.employee category. ・Promoting Diversity: Programs for Extension of Retirement to a.Type and scope of programs implemented and assistance upgrading Age 65 provided to upgrade employee skills. employee skills ・Data Sheet (Major 404-2 b.Transition assistance programs provided to facilitate continued and transition Sustainability Data): assistance employability and the management of career endings resulting Main self-development programs from retirement or termination of employment. programs and the number of participants in FY2019 Percentage of employees receiving regular a.Percentage of total employees by gender and by employee ・Development of Human 404-3 performance category who received a regular performance and career Resources: Fair and and career development review during the reporting period. Reasonable Evaluations development reviews 402 405:Diversity and Equal Opportunity a.Percentage of individuals within the organization's governance bodies in each of the following diversity categories: i.gender. ii.a ge group: under 30 years old, 30-50 years old, over 50 years ・Data Sheet (Major old; Sustainability Data): Number of male and female Diversity of iii.other indicators of diversity where relevant (such as minority employees by Management governance or vulnerable groups). 405-1 or Non-management position bodies and b.Percentage of employees per employee category in each of the (entire Group) employees following diversity categories: ・Employment Status: i.gender. Number of Employees (as of ii.a ge group: under 30 years old, 30-50 years old, over 50 years December 31, 2019) old; iii.other indicators of diversity where relevant (such as minority or vulnerable groups). Ratio of basic a.Ratio of the basic salary and remuneration of women to salary and men for each employee category, by significant locations of 405-2 operation. remuneration of women to men b.The definition used for 'significant locations of operation'. 406:Non discrimination a.Total number of incidents of discrimination during the reporting period. b.Status of the incidents and actions taken with reference to the following: Incidents of discrimination i.incident reviewed by the organization; 406-1 and corrective ii.remediation plans being implemented; actions taken iii.remediation plans that have been implemented, with results reviewed through routine internal management review processes; iv.incident no longer subject to action. 407:Freedom of Association and Collective Bargaining a.Operations and suppliers in which workers' rights to exercise Operations freedom of association or collective bargaining may be and suppliers violated or at significant risk either in terms of: in which the i.type of operation (such as manufacturing plant) and supplier; right to freedom 407-1 ii.countries or geographic areas with operations and suppliers of association and collective considered at risk. bargaining may b.Measures taken by the organization in the reporting period be at risk intended to support rights to exercise freedom of association and collective bargaining. 408:Child Labor a.Operations and suppliers considered to have significant risk for incidents of: i.child labor; Operations and ii.young workers exposed to hazardous work. suppliers at b.Operations and suppliers considered to have significant risk 408-1 significant risk for incidents of child labor either in terms of: for incidents of i.type of operation (such as manufacturing plant) and supplier; child labor ii.countries or geographic areas with operations and suppliers considered at risk. c.Measures taken by the organization in the reporting period intended to contribute to the effective abolition of child labor. 403 409:Forced or Compulsory Labor a.Operations and suppliers considered to have significant risk for Operations and incidents of forced or compulsory labor either in terms of: suppliers at i.t ype of operation (such as manufacturing plant) and supplier; significant risk 409-1 for incidents ii.countries or geographic areas with operations and suppliers of forced or considered at risk. compulsory b.Measures taken by the organization in the reporting period labor intended to contribute to the elimination of all forms of forced or compulsory labor. 410:Security Practices Security a.Percentage of security personnel who have received formal personnel training in the organization's human rights policies or specific 410-1 trained in human procedures and their application to security. rights policies or b.Whether training requirements also apply to third-party procedures organizations providing security personnel. 411:Rights of Indigenous Peoples a.Total number of identified incidents of violations involving the rights of indigenous peoples during the reporting period. b.Status of the incidents and actions taken with reference to the Incidents of following: violations i.incident reviewed by the organization; Not applicable within this 411-1 involving rights ii.remediation plans being implemented; reporting period of indigenous peoples iii.remediation plans that have been implemented, with results reviewed through routine internal management review processes; iv.incident no longer subject to action. 412:Human Rights Assessment Operations that have been subject a.Total number and percentage of operations that have been 412-1 to human subject to human rights reviews or human rights impact rights reviews assessments, by country. or impact assessments a.Total number of hours in the reporting period devoted to Employee training on human rights policies or procedures concerning training on aspects of human rights that are relevant to operations. ・Respect for Human Rights: 412-2 human rights Initiatives to Improve policies or b.Percentage of employees trained during the reporting period Awareness of employees procedures in human rights policies or procedures concerning aspects of human rights that are relevant to operations. Significant investment agreements and a.Total number and percentage of significant investment contracts that agreements and contracts that include human rights clauses 412-3 include human or that underwent human rights screening. rights clauses or that underwent b.The definition used for 'significant investment agreements'. human rights screening 404 413:Local Communities a.Percentage of operations with implemented local community engagement, impact assessments, and/or development programs, including the use of: ・To Create Harmony with Society: Cultural and Social i.social impact assessments, including gender impact Contribution assessments, based on participatory processes; Operations with ・Suntory Natural Water ii.environmental impact assessments and ongoing monitoring; local community Sanctuary engagement, iii.public disclosure of results of environmental and social impact ・Bird Conservation Activities impact assessments; 413-1 ・Suntory Mizuiku-Education assessments, iv.local community development programs based on local Program for Nature and and communities' needs; Water development v.stakeholder engagement plans based on stakeholder mapping; programs ・Sports Activities vi.broad based local community consultation committees and ・Social Welfare processes that include vulnerable groups; ・Developing the Next vii.works councils, occupational health and safety committees Generation and other worker representation bodies to deal with impacts; viii.formal local community grievance processes. Operations with a.Operations with significant actual and potential negative significant actual impacts on local communities, including: and potential 413-2 i.the location of the operations; negative impacts on local ii.the significant actual and potential negative impacts of communities operations. 414:Supplier Social Assessment New suppliers ・ Sus t ainable Procurement: that were a.Percentage of new suppliers that were screened using social Promoting Sus t ainabilit y 414-1 screened using criteria. Ac tivities Throughout the social criteria Supply Chain a.Number of suppliers assessed for social impacts. b.Number of suppliers identified as having significant actual and potential negative social impacts. c.Significant actual and potential negative social impacts Negative social identified in the supply chain. impacts in the 414-2 supply chain and d.Percentage of suppliers identified as having significant actions taken actual and potential negative social impacts with which improvements were agreed upon as a result of assessment. e.Percentage of suppliers identified as having significant actual and potential negative social impacts with which relationships were terminated as a result of assessment, and why. 415:Public Policy a.Total monetary value of financial and in-kind political contributions made directly and indirectly by the organization Political by country and recipient/beneficiary. 415-1 contributions b.If applicable, how the monetary value of in-kind contributions was estimated. 416:Customer Health and Safety Assessment of the health and a.Percentage of significant product and service categories ・ Qualit y A ssurance from a safety impacts 416-1 for which health and safety impacts are assessed for Customer Perspective in All of product improvement. Processes and service categories 405 a.Total number of incidents of non-compliance with regulations and/or voluntary codes concerning the health and safety impacts of products and services within the reporting period, Incidents of by: non-compliance i.incidents of non-compliance with regulations resulting in a fine concerning or penalty; ・Appropriate Information 416-2 the health and ii.incidents of non-compliance with regulations resulting in a Disclosure: Voluntary Recalls safety impacts warning; of products and services iii.incidents of non-compliance with voluntary codes. b.If the organization has not identified any non-compliance with regulations and/or voluntary codes, a brief statement of this fact is sufficient. 417:Marketing and Labeling a.Whether each of the following types of information is required by the organization's procedures for product and service information and labeling: i.the sourcing of components of the product or service; Requirements for product ii.content, particularly with regard to substances that might produce an environmental or social impact; ・ Appropriate Information 417-1 and service Disclosure information and iii.safe use of the product or service; labeling iv.disposal of the product and environmental or social impacts; v.other (explain). b.Percentage of significant product or service categories covered by and assessed for compliance with such procedures. a.Total number of incidents of non-compliance with regulations and/or voluntary codes concerning product and service information and labeling, by: Incidents of non-compliance i.incidents of non-compliance with regulations resulting in a fine concerning or penalty; ・Appropriate Information 417-2 product ii.incidents of non-compliance with regulations resulting in a Disclosure: Voluntary Recalls and service warning; information and iii.incidents of non-compliance with voluntary codes. labeling b.If the organization has not identified any non-compliance with regulations and/or voluntary codes, a brief statement of this fact is sufficient. a.Total number of incidents of non-compliance with regulations and/or voluntary codes concerning marketing communications, including advertising, promotion, and sponsorship, by: Incidents of i.incidents of non-compliance with regulations resulting in a fine non-compliance or penalty; 417-3 concerning ii.incidents of non-compliance with regulations resulting in a marketing warning; communications iii.incidents of non-compliance with voluntary codes. b.If the organization has not identified any non-compliance with regulations and/or voluntary codes, a brief statement of this fact is sufficient. 418:Customer Privacy a.Total number of substantiated complaints received concerning Substantiated breaches of customer privacy, categorized by: complaints i.complaints received from outside parties and substantiated by concerning the organization; breaches of Not applicable within this 418-1 ii.complaints from regulatory bodies. customer reporting period privacy and b.Total number of identified leaks, thefts, or losses of customer losses of data. customer data c.If the organization ha s not identified any substantiated complaints, a brief statement of this fact is sufficient. 406 419:Socioeconomic Compliance a.Significant fines and non-monetary sanctions for noncompliance with laws and/or regulations in the social and economic area in terms of: i.total monetary value of significant fines; Non-compliance with laws and ii.total number of non-monetary sanctions; Not applicable within this 419-1 regulations in iii.cases brought through dispute resolution mechanisms. reporting period the social and b.If the organization has not identified any non-compliance with economic area environmental laws and/or regulations, a brief statement of this fact is sufficient. c.The context against which significant fines and non-monetary sanctions were incurred. Aspects with High Relevance to the Four Initiatives ● To Create Harmony with Customers and Partners: Products and Services ● To Create Harmony with Nature: Environment ● To Create Harmony with Society: Cultural and Social Contribution ● To Create Harmony with Employees: Diversity Management Suntory Group actively engages in initiatives to address following aspects which are closely related to the above four initiatives. [Customer Health and Safety] [Product and Service Labeling] [Energy] [Water] [Biodiversity] [Local Communities] [ Training and Education] [Diversity and Equal Oppor tunity] [Supplier Environmental Assessment] [Supplier Assessment for Labor Practices] [Supplier Human Rights Assessment] [Supplier Assessment for Impacts on Society] [Marketing Communications] 407
