Surface Logging Services Drilling Solutions Lab Studies Innovation Hub Sustainability Report: Communication on Progress 2020 After our 10 million man-hours LTI-free milestone last quarter, GEOLOG is proud to announce another important HSEQ achievement: YEARS LTI FREE MILESTONE Congratulations and thank you to all our field engineers, technicians, operations managers and support staff for their unwavering commitment to GEOLOG’s HSEQ culture and objectives. www.geolog.com 05 Message from the CEO 12 Human Right Principles Charity Contributions and Social Responsibilities Guide to 06 Mission Statement Safe work conditions and incidents prevention HSE milestone 5 years loss time incident (LTI) free 07 Company Overview HSE Initiative 2019 GEOLOG HSE Leadership Award Contents 08 09 Company History 17 Labour Principles Client References 18 Environmental Principles Sustainability Report: Communication on Progress 2020 10 HSE & Quality 20 Anticorruption Principles HSE Capabilities QUALITY Capabilities 22 GEOLOG in the world 2 3 Message from the CEO “GEOLOG supports the UN Global Compact and recognizes the importance of a sustainable and responsible growth. In 2020 and beyond, we will continue to embrace the UNGC’s universal principles as part of our strategic objectives and goals.” GEOLOG has been a signatory of the UNGC since 2009 and is GEOLOG also achieved a significant HSEQ milestones in 2019, proud of positively contributing to make a more prosperous with over 10 million manhours and 5 years of operations without world by investing in sustainable development and by operating any Lost Time Incidents, a testament to the safety and quality its business in a responsible manner. culture that is instilled in all our 1,800+ staff globally. We support the ten universally guiding principles with respect Our goal for 2020 is to keep and increase our investments in to human rights, labour, environment and anti-corruption across promoting good practices to guarantee better solutions to solve the countries where we operate, and we are committed to make global challenges with higher standards of integrity, quality, them part of our strategy and culture. safety and transparency. GEOLOG’s continued commitment to the principles is GEOLOG will also continue its strategy of cost reduction, demonstrated in projects we have undertaken during the past eliminating all waste, reviewing its entire production cycle, years as well as in the culture we are instilling in our company. streamlining the management chain and increasing field staff Working together with local organizations as well as global ones, and management training on new technologies. GEOLOG supported charitable initiatives and participated in projects to benefit communities worldwide in 2019. Richard Calleri Chief Executive Officer February 2020 05 Company Overview Geolog International (GEOLOG) is a world leader in oilfield patents, and targets the introduction of new patents annually. services delivering solutions and expertise to National, In parallel to delivering technical excellence, GEOLOG strongly International and Independent Oil, Gas and Geothermal prioritises its HS&E commitments, recently marking five years operators globally. Since its founding in Milan, Italy, in 1982, without a Lost Time Incident, while continuing to implement GEOLOG has developed effective and cost-effective alternative and refine its internationally recognized QHSE and CSR solutions to complex and expensive downhole measurement standards. In addition to being the global market leader in tools. Through the optimisation of formation, fluid and reservoir hydrocarbon evaluation at wellsite through its extraction, analysis, well construction is improved, well delivery optimised analysis and interpretation of gasses from drilling fluids, and production delivery accelerated. By utilising these in or near GEOLOG also provides a uniquely comprehensive, proven Mission Statement realtime rigsite applications, operators are able to mitigate risk and market leading suite of drilling and formation evaluation and reduce cost. As part of its strategy to become the global solutions. Together, these technologies have the primary goal supplier of choice, GEOLOG has gained experience in over 70 of reducing drilling time and costs, improving operational Our Mission countries worldwide, performing services and assisting operators safety and greatly enhancing the understanding of formations onshore and offshore, during exploration, development and and reservoirs during drilling. More recently, through its Milanappraisal programs in shallow to ultra-deep water, HP/HT, based Laboratory and R&D company G EOTech, GEOLOG has unconventional oil and gas and geothermal wells. developed geochemical focused laboratory services for reservoir To help our clients make quantified, To constantly build a leading edge To respect and improve the highest GEOLOG maintains a committed focus on research and characterisation aimed at oil and gas production optimisation informed, substantial improvements service company that attracts, safety and environmental standards development, innovation and the implementation of proprietary in both pre and post drilling phases, enabling a fully integrated in their drilling efficiency, develops and retains exceptional whilst actively participating in the technologies through continual investment in novel solutions approach to reservoir evaluation and understanding. Thanks to hydrocarbon detection and reservoir people. development and know-how of the to industry challenges. This robust commitment to continuous its independence and provision of surface solutions, GEOLOG characterization. countries in which we operate. research and development has enabled GEOLOG to develop has become a trusted advisor for operators looking at ways to and deploy an extensive suite of wellsite Drilling and Formation reduce their expensive downhole measurements and optimise Evaluation solutions. GEOLOG holds a significant number of drilling programs. 06 07 Company History Client International Oil Companies include: Over thirty five years of field experience References GEOLOG’s experience covers over 8,000 wells globally and includes national and international oil companies across multiple continents. Our services are in demand with traditional oil & gas operators and extend to small and large integrated service providers. Our services have been performed both onshore and offshore for: • Exploration Wells • Development Wells • Geothermal Wells • Unconventional Reservoirs • Extended Reach Drilling • Narrow Mud Weight Windows •U nderbalanced-Managed Pressure Drilling GEOLOG has logged over 500 wells in Deep and Ultra-Deep Water operations in: Houston office • Angola • Mauritania GEOLOG was founded in Italy in 1982 to provide mud logging and production facilities in Milan, Italy, in 2016 the company • Australia • Mozambique services to AGIP on geothermal, oil and gas wells. From its early reorganized its corporate structure under GEOLOG Surface • Brazil • Namibia years, GEOLOG´s strong technological and R&D culture led Logging DMCC, based in Dubai, UAE. • Congo • Sri Lanka National Oil Companies include: to the development of a number of innovative solutions and • Egypt • Tanzania highly technological patents in the mud logging arena. The Under current management, GEOLOG has consistently grown • Ghana • Timor Leste Italian crisis of 1994, during which the company moved abroad, organically by delivering value, expanding its operations from • Gulf of Mexico • Togo opening bases in Tunisia, Congo and Venezuela, servicing AGIP’s its established footholds in Europe, North and West Africa and • Guyana • Trinidad international operations, acted as a catalyst for the company’s Central America and by opening new bases in the Middle and Far • India • Tunisia international expansion. Current management acquired the East, South America, the North Sea, USA and Australasia. Today, • Italy • Turkey PERTAMINA company in 2001 and has been able to develop its innovative GEOLOG remains privately owned and has grown to become • Malaysia • Venezuela solutions and technological patents into commercial products the leading surface logging company of the world offering a full HP/HT Well Experience includes: and services, thereby significantly growing the customer base spectrum of services from Surface Logging to Drilling Solutions, across not only international oil companies but also across as well as Laboratory studies and R&D partnerships. • Argentina • Kuwait national oil companies worldwide. Whilst retaining its R&D • Austria • Mexico • Bolivia • Mozambique • Brazil • Netherlands • China • Norway • Ghana • Romania • Italy • Sri Lanka Integrated Service Providers include: • Kurdistan • Turkey Extreme Weather Environments: North Africa +55°C Arctic -50°C 08 09 HSE & Quality QUALITY Capabilities Health, safety, the environment and quality GEOLOG’s Quality Management System is certified under Maintaining outstanding QHSE performances and complying are fundamental to everything we do. ISO 9001:2015, and is founded on the belief that continuous improvement of the quality of our services shall be pursued. with international QHSE standards are a core value for GEOLOG. Our successful QHSE performance and the continuous GEOLOG involves all its employees in this process, from field staff improvement of our QHSE Management System have been HSE Capabilities to senior management. made possible through strong leadership and teamwork of all GEOLOG’s vision on Health, Safety and Environment is to make Health and Safety Management System) by DNV-GL at its main employees and managers of the company. measurable improvements in all HSE aspects of the services locations of Amsterdam and Dubai (headquarters), Luanda The integrated certification of the QHSE Management System provided and to do so continuously. (main operational base of Sub-Saharan Africa) and Ijmuiden (ISO 9001:2015, ISO 14001:2015 and ISO 45001:2018) guides GEOLOG main HSE goals are: (operational base for North Sea region). the company in achieving excellence in QHSE performance • No personal injuries These certifications are integrated with the ISO 9001:2015 and ensures that GEOLOG’s operations are managed efficiently • No accidents (Quality Management System) both for office/base and rig site and responsibly, providing reliable, safe and environmentally Quality Policy • No environmental damages activities. respectful services to its clients. To ensure the achievement of these Some of the major benefits of having an integrated certified To ensure the QHSE Management System is in place, GEOLOG Geolog International (“GEOLOG”) is a leading global oilfield services company, the largest independent international surface logging company in the world. objectives and expectations, GEOLOG has system are: uses a team of internal auditors trained in the ISO & OHSAS GEOLOG is committed to adopt a worldwide Quality Management System represented by an organized structure with responsibilities, procedures, processes and resources for quality management. in place a complete HSE Management • To provide effective and consistent operational service to standards in which GEOLOG is certified. GEOLOG encourages participation and promotion amongst all employees to continuously improve the company’s performance System which sets out GEOLOG’s our clients GEOLOG Quality Policy, also issued by GEOLOG CEO, defines the and the quality of service provided to its clients. GEOLOG’s quality objectives: approach in identifying and managing • To provide efficient and consistent support to our rig site main quality objectives of the company and gives the guidelines • To improve client’s satisfaction and exceed client’s expectations • To provide clients with accurate quantified data and interpretation Health, Safety and Environmental aspects operations on how to achieve them. • To attain international Quality Management System certifications • To maintain a valid Quality Management System at all times • To ensure the application of the quality procedures and implement additional procedures when required related to the service provided. • To have standardized planning and procedures worldwide, • To increase the efficiency of the company’s organization through clearly assigned responsibilities enabling GEOLOG to work with the highest standards In addition to its ISO certificates, GEOLOG QHSE Management GEOLOG seeks to achieve these objectives by: • Ensuring activities are compliant with client’s expectations and requirements • Ensuring an appropriate level of employee’s competencies GEOLOG HSE Management System is certified under the • To involve and encourage the participation of both office System is also verified and approved as per Achilles requirements, • Promoting technological innovation • Increasing efficiency and productivity international standards ISO 14001:2015 (Environmental and rig site personnel a system used by major organisations to qualify suppliers and • Establishing and reviewing on a yearly basis its corporate objectives • Continually reviewing and improving its Quality Management System in line with industry and international standards Management System) and ISO 45001:2018 (Occupational • To have an active system for continuous improvement consequently reducing the risks in the supply chain. GEOLOG Management constantly strives for success through client’s satisfaction and the continuous improvement of its internal efficiency. GEOLOG is registered in several Achilles communities, such The application of this policy is the direct responsibility of both GEOLOG Management as well as of all GEOLOG employees. Executive management is fully committed to HSE vision through as FPAL, Connexio Achilles JQS, and Repro. This is a further constant personal involvement, including HSE review meetings, confirmation of GEOLOG’s commitment and adherence to audits and allocation of resources for the improvement of the relevant industry standards. Health, Safety & Environment (HSE) Policy HSE Management System. Richard Calleri Chief Executive Officer January 2020 Geolog International (“GEOLOG”) is a leading global oilfield services company, the largest independent international surface logging Document Ref: G-45-008-PHU-20 company in the world. Furthermore, GEOLOG corporate HSE Policy statement is Version: 01.00 Date: 01-Jan-2020 The leading independent surface logging company issued directly by the CEO, Mr. Richard Calleri. The policy states GEOLOG recognises the importance of protecting all aspects of Health & Safety and the Environment in which it operates. GEOLOG therefore pro-actively works with employees, clients, contractors, public and government agencies in order to achieve the highest possible standards of Health, Safety and Environmental protection. GEOLOG is committed to implement sustainable development principles in its activities, knowing that sustainable development is GEOLOG’s main HSE objectives and the guidance for their achievement. the responsibility of all individuals of the company. GEOLOG’s HSE objectives: • To comply with client’s HSE standards, policies and procedures • To comply with relevant legislation, codes, guidelines and standards provided by international organizations, as well as to apply GEOLOG constantly monitors and evaluates the effectiveness PL AN more stringent standards where considered appropriate • To attain international Health, Safety and Environment Management System certifications • To protect the health and safety of its employees and of those who may be affected by its operations • To continuously improve the prevention of possible damage to the environment • To prevent risk exposure in all areas of its operations considering that all incidents are preventable of its HSE Management System in order to comply with Plan Implement international standards and clients’ requirements. For this reason, • To prevent absences from work due to accidents and illnesses • To maintain a valid HSE Management System at all times GEOLOG seeks to achieve these objectives by: several KPIs are evaluated and regularly reported to senior •Q HSE goals and • Training awareness and • Ensuring an appropriate level of employee’s training in relation to HSE protection in all areas of operations PLEMENT • Supporting and implementing incident prevention, including implementation of the Stop Work Authority program • Assessing HSE risks and taking appropriate and timely actions to control these risks management, such as the man-hours worked, the number of objectives competence • Using an effective communication system for all HSE issues • Providing adequate human, technical and financial investments in HSE Lost Time Injuries (LTI), the LTI Frequency Rate (LTIFR), the Total • Field risk analysis • Document control Continuous R E V IE W IM • Clearly defining the HSE roles and responsibilities of all employees • Setting objectives and targets for measuring and improving HSE performance. • Continually reviewing and improving its HSE Management System in line with industry and international standards Recordable Incident Rate (TRIR) and all statistics related to minor • Client requirements • Emergency planning GEOLOG ensures implementation of consultation and participation process of workers on the aspects related to management of Health, Safety and Environment and assures that there will be no reprisal to employees for reporting workplace incidents, hazards, risks and opportunities. incidents and environmental spills. Improvement • Operational control GEOLOG Management is committed to continuosly maintain the highest possible HSE standards and improve the Health, Safety and Environmental performance of the company. In 2019, GEOLOG worked 2.25 million man-hours with zero Verify Review The application of this policy is the direct responsibility of both GEOLOG Management as well as all GEOLOG employees. fatalities, zero lost time injuries, and zero environmental spills. It • Audits • Management review achieved 2 key HSE milestones 10 Million Manhours and 5 years Richard Calleri • Records • Recommendations continuous LTI free in 2019. VERIFY Document Ref: G-50-008-PHU-20 Chief Executive Officer Version: 02.00 The leading independent surface logging company Date: 01-Jan-2020 January 2020 • Incident investigation and analysis [1] A Lost Time Injury (LTI) is a work-related injury occurred to an employee in which a physician or licensed health care professional recommends day(s) away from work. [2] The Lost Time Injury Frequency Rate (LTIFR) is calculated as the number of Lost Time Injuries per million hours worked in the period analyzed. 010 [3] The Total Recordable Incident Rate (TRIR) is calculated as the number of Fatalities, Lost Time Injuries and Medical Treatment Cases per million hours worked in the period analyzed. 11 Human Rights Principles through the implementation of good business practices: Ethical and responsible actions in the areas I. Anticorruption policies where we operate II. Business ethics III. Environmental sustainability IV. Direct and indirect impacts of the companies to local communities V. Human rights VI. Communication of results to media and public agencies At the end of the sessions a final diploma was delivered to all participants. In the attached photo Matteo Zagatto, GEOLOG Argentina representative, is giving the final diploma to some of the participants”. Romania Donation of household and office equipment GEOLOG Romania, in partnership with Steder Group, donated a significant amount of goods to a community in Valea Plopului, Prahova, Romania which Principle 1: Businesses should support and respect the protection of internationally proclaimed human rights. homes over 400 children and young people needing support. Donated Principle 2: Make sure that they are not complicit in human rights abuses. material included bunk and double beds, wardrobes, clothes dryer, fridge, kitchen table and chairs. GEOLOG is devoted to the protection of Human Rights. For this reason, we strive to conduct our business based on ethical and responsible actions in the areas where we operate. We Additionally GEOLOG also donated a projector to a Neuropsychiatric encourage our local representatives to sponsor, support and actively participate in projects that positively affect communities. In Rehabilitation Centre in Giurgiu, which is home to people suffering from this way, we look forward to support and improve local conditions. disability and health issues. Charity Contributions and Social Responsibilities Pic: Mirela Tincu Office coordinator handing the projector to the representative. GEOLOG has a long history of supporting and contributing to the local communities where we work which, by nature of our industry, Indonesia Donation to Flood Victims can be in underdeveloped nations or communities, suffering from economic instability and in some cases lacking access to basic necessities like food and water, shelter or education. In line with our strategic vision, we continue to support remarkable charity GEOLOG Indonesia is actively contributing to the support of local community every year. As part of local corporate social responsibility initiatives worldwide. The GEOLOG Foundation actively supports and promotes local charities, focusing on the education and quality program 2019, GEOLOG Indonesia donated food and life support equipment to the victims of the recent flood in December 2019. of life of young children. GEOLOG managers and personnel are directly involved in many local charity and social activities, such as organizing entertainment for children in hospitals and orphanages and visiting elderly people in hospices. We pride ourselves on engaging and working together with local communities in the countries where we operate. Argentina GOLD Sponsor of UNGC Local event GEOLOG Argentina was a gold sponsor of a UNGC local event that took place in Neuquen, Argentina, during October and November 2019, related to Management and Sustainability. A total of 8 sessions were held in the University of Economy of Neuquen; the main topics of the sessions were related to the alignment of companies objectives to a sustainable growth, Pic: Irawan, Far East QHSE coordinator with local community. 12 13 Angola Support to Dom Bosco Institute & Congregation Of The Missionary Benedictine Safe work conditions and incidents prevention Sisters Of Tutzing in Menongue GEOLOG’s QHSE Management System is built on the belief that most workplace injuries, illnesses and incidents are preventable. For the last few years, GEOLOG has been supporting the Dom Bosco Institute in Angola, which has the mission of helping improve Hazards leading to these events are often known prior to their occurrence, making prevention the most effective tool to safeguard the living conditions of the most vulnerable children, adolescents and young people in Luanda creating actions that promote our personnel and third party people. social reintegration. This time, GEOLOG helped the institute by purchasing material for agriculture and also by donating a minibus to transport the children to their schools. In order to properly manage the risks related to the activities performed, GEOLOG has in place a proper risk assessment procedure that helps to identify and assess the risks associated with our operations, considering the likelihood and the magnitude of potential hazards. . This helps us to identify the mitigation and control measures needed to ensure the activities are safely executed. GEOLOG focus its attention not only on occupational safety (conventional safety risks, e.g. slips or trips), but also on process safety (major hazards risks). The interaction between the two safety levels has led GEOLOG to achieve its great HSE performance. Below some GEOLOG’s key performance indicators for the year 2019, followed by the graphic overview of the trends man-hours worked versus Lost Time Injury Frequency Rate (LTIFR). Total Lost Time LTI Frequency Man-Hours Recordable Environmental Year Fatalities Injuries Rate Gravity Rate Worked Incidents Rate Spills (LTI) (LTIFR) (TRIR) 2019 2,225,057 0 0 0.00 0.00 0.89 0 Pic: Fabrice Anglereaux, SSA Regional Manager with kids and community Pic: GEOLOG representatives with Nuns This initiative builds on previous years’ actions that included donating a water truck to the foundation as well as sporting equipment and uniforms for the 2,000+ children that this organisation helps to feed, clothe and educate daily. Hours Worked Manhours Vs. LTI Frequency Rate LTI Frequency Additionally, GEOLOG Angola donated a new multifunction photocopy device to Congregação Das Irmãs Beneditinas Missionárias Thousand Rate De Tutzing (Congregation Of The Missionary Benedictine Sisters Of Tutzing) centre in Kuando Kubango, located in Menongue city, 3.000 2,792 1.8 southwest of Angola, 1.050 kilometres away from Luanda. The action was hugely appreciated by the institution which focuses on 2,454 2,481 1.6 bringing better education to young people and women. 2.500 2,225 1.4 2.000 1,797 1,933 1,810 1,808 1.2 Funding UNICEF 1,593 1 1.500 We believe that investing in initiatives that advocate for education, health conditions and respect of children rights is a key element 0.8 to building a better society in the future. Therefore, GEOLOG also funds programs that contribute to giving better opportunities for 1.000 0.6 children. In line with this, GEOLOG made a monetary contribution to the United Nations Children’s Fund (UNICEF). 500 0.4 0.2 0 0 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 2016 2017 2018 2019 Hours Worked LTIFR 14 15 GEOLOG HSE MILESTONE 5 YEARS LOSS TIME INCIDENT (LTI) FREE After our 10 million man-hours LTI-free milestone last quarter, GEOLOG is proud to announce another important HSEQ achievement: GEOLOG achieved two major HSE milestones in 2019. YEARS Firstly, in September, GEOLOG reached 10 Million hours worked without a LTI and later, in November, completed 5 full years LTI free. These milestones have been achieved not by chance, but through year-round 24/7 commitment and dedication to safety from all Labour Principles of GEOLOG family. This commitment has been facilitated by the LTI FREE implementation of robust HSE policy and procedures, strong focus MILESTONE on HSE Management, careful analysis of hazards throughout the Congratulations business and an all-inclusive team effort. Our team approach is driven by highly visible management and encompasses all and thank you to all our field engineers, technicians, Guarantee gender equality to all its employees operations managers and support staff for their unwavering commitment to GEOLOG’s HSEQ culture and objectives. employees with a sincere “Commitment to HSE Policy”, a universal belief that “Safety Comes First” and a fundamental understanding www.geolog.com that “Safety is Everybody’s Responsibility”. The journey was not easy, particularly as it was achieved during our passage through the longest-ever crisis in our sector. However, GEOLOG, through its internal policies and procedures, is committed and strives to respect the labour rights and to guarantee gender even during these times of uncertainty and volatility, GEOLOG has safeguarded personal and field activities, enabling a safety equality to all its employees with the objective to ensure no discrimination. first environment every day. The achievement has incorporated growth via a series of events which GEOLOG has incorporated as opportunities to learn lessons and continuously improve its Policy, Procedures, Processes, Practices and People.” Principle 3: Businesses should uphold the freedom of association and the effective recognition of the right to collective On the occasion of this marvellous achievement, GEOLOG awarded its employees with financial bonuses acknowledging that. bargaining; Principle 4: the elimination of all forms of forced and compulsory labour; HSE Initiative 2019 – Own It-Win It Principle 5: the effective abolition of child labour; and Principle 6: the elimination of discrimination in respect of employment and occupation GEOLOG belief of “people are our most important asset” has continuously yielded the best HSE performances for the recent years. As The employment of children, underage youths or any type of commitment. At the moment, 20% of GEOLOG employees in a new initiative to improve performance even further, engage and increase participation in decision making in HSE Risk identification abuse and forced labour is not acceptable to GEOLOG under any office services are women and 7 management positions are held and reduction; GEOLOG Management and QHSE department announced a HSE Initiative to run a competition “OWN ITWIN IT” circumstances and is viewed as being a serious infringement of by women. where all employees were requested to participate by submitting a short Safety Moment content with HSE themes related to the our Code of Conduct. All GEOLOG employees are older than19 hazards and risks associated with Surface Logging Activities. years and over 60% are university graduated. Flexible work arrangement is provided by GEOLOG for its There were 7 submissions made over 2 months. The result was announced in 2019 H2 and the winners were selected based on 5 employees, especially for women with families and young criteria viz. relevance of content to Surface Logging activity, originality, creativity, quality of content, and adoptability by GEOLOG. GEOLOG does not tolerate illegal or unethical behaviour or children in order to fit work and family needs. GEOLOG gives Mr. Peshraw Mohammad (Field Engineer, Kurdistan) and Mr. Ionut Ciocoiu (Field Engineer, Romania) were selected as joint winners any kind of discrimination among others, race, religion, colour, special attention to pregnant women, allowing them to work of the competition. At the same time, Mr. Walid Aydi (Field Engineer Gabon) and Mr. Merouane Tebbal (Operations Manager gender, for its employees. We conduct our services according from home in the final stage of pregnancy and making work Congo) awarded with a consolatory winner for their contribution. All winners were awarded cash bonus for their commitment and to the principles of respect and dignity, always providing a arrangements for the post-delivery. contribution to Health and Safety improvement. fair working environments. GEOLOG embraces diversity in the Winners of the competition: workplace. For example, there are 72 different nationalities In order to promote social and economic development by among the total of GEOLOG employees. creating more job opportunities, involving local stakeholders We are also committed to support the development in the and minimizing indirect environmental aspects of our business, areas where we provide services by local empowerment and GEOLOG, whenever possible, acquires services and materials use of local providers. For instance, 64% of GEOLOG’s employees from local suppliers that comply with our standards. In this way, are local. Next to this, GEOLOG acknowledges women’s we extend our scope of influence and our commitment to our empowerment as a crucial element in its social responsibility business community. Ionut Ciocoiu Peshraw Mohammad Walid Aydi Merouane Tebbal 16 17 Environmental Principles We encourage our employees to develop the business Environment-friendly solutions for GEOLOG Milan Home produced about 25,000 KWH. December is the bottom of production with about 3 KWH. Of course this depends on weather in an environmentally responsible manner Office and seasonal conditions, but in general overall production is slightly GEOLOG main office and production facility in Milan, Italy, has been better than expectation. designed considering environmentally friendly solutions, such as the use of renewable energy sources. The thermal station of the These initiatives reinforce the commitment of GEOLOG towards new building is powered by two geothermal wells, one for water solutions that help to reduce our carbon footprint and the impact production at a depth of 50 meters, and one for water reinjection on the environment at a depth of 40 meters. At the end of 2015, GEOLOG installed photovoltaic panels (680 modules) in order to produce electric energy needed for the daily activities by using solar energy. The photovoltaic plant is an important investment made by GEOLOG in renewable energy. The system is working since March 2016. In this last year the system produced about 169,000 KWH, corresponding to more than the 22% of the entire power request in the site. Production peaks have occurred in June and July when we GEOLOG Goes GREEN GEOLOG encourages everyone to embrace the principle of sustainability in order to contribute to environmental protection. GEOLOG is committed to the protection of the Environment as it does to Health and Safety to the employees. Our Management System (MS) is certified to ISO 14001:2015 standard and GEOLOG is a signatory member of the United Nations Global Compact (UNGC) forum which means principally that we are committed to Environmental Sustainability. GEOLOG through its Green initiatives Principle 7: Businesses should support a precautionary approach to environmental challenges; would like to reduce carbon footprint by adopting eco-friendly Principle 8: undertake initiatives to promote greater environmental responsibility; and approaches. Below are examples of initiatives implemented by Principle 9: encourage the development and diffusion of environmentally friendly technologies operations and local bases evidences of GEOLOG going GREEN globally. One of the keystones of GEOLOG’s HSE Management System 1. Email “DO NOT PRINT” tags on email signature is our HSE Policy. Through the commitment of achieving 2. Use of USB made of recycled material (paper/wood) remarkable performance regarding Health, Safety and 3. Waste Management based on the principle of 4RsReduce, Reuse, Environment, we encourage our employees to develop the Recover and Recycle business in an environmentally responsible manner. 4. Geothermal plant GEOLOG, in line with ISO 14001:2015 standard, tries wherever 5. Methane/Gas company cars possible to use environmentally friendly products and to avoid 6. Distribution of aluminium bottles to cut down plastic bottles and environmental incidents. To do so, we identified all our potential cups environmental aspects and impacts in order to define all 7. Removal of disposable cutleries (spoons, forks, plastic plates etc.) measures and actions needed to prevent, minimize and control by replacing them with durable items them. 18 19 Anticorruption Principles Highest ethical and legal standards Principle 10: Businesses should work against corruption in all its forms, including extortion and bribery In light of the above, GEOLOG developed and implemented a specific Anti-Bribery and Anti-Corruption plan through the actions described below: GEOLOG is strongly committed to the highest ethical and legal standards. Each company within GEOLOG has been provided with • Conducted a risk assessment to identify potential exposure to • Recruitment procedures have been updated to be fully compliant the internal Code of Business Conduct and Anti-Bribery and Antibribery and corruption. with relevant Anti-Bribery and Anti-Corruption principles and Corruption Policy both aimed at raising awareness of the relevant • Involved its top management and Board members to (i) clearly regulations. national and international laws, standards and principles in order to communicate the core values of the Group and (ii) devote • Set up of whistleblowing facilities and compliance helpline and ensure compliance by GEOLOG as a whole, and all directors, officers appropriate time and internal resources to anti-bribery compliance other reporting procedures. and employees with the Anti-Bribery and Anti-Corruption business issues and to monitor the effectiveness of anti-bribery programs • All GEOLOG personnel at risk of bribery and/or corruption behaviors principles accepted worldwide. and controls. and practices is being trained either via face-to-face individual In particular, GEOLOG fully adhered and implemented all Anti• Issued a detailed Code of Business Conduct and Anti-Bribery and meetings or online seminars, e-learning tools etc. to understand Bribery and Anti-Corruption principles set forth in the Organization Anti-Corruption Policy covering all anti-bribery and corruption how bribery and corruption situations can arise and which are the for Economic Co-operation and Development (OECD) Convention aspects and explaining which procedures each department should procedures and/or remedies to avoid that. on Combating Bribery of Foreign Public Officials in International put in place and which rules should be followed, both at a Group • GEOLOG is also starting to apply risk-based compliance due Business Transactions, UK’s Bribery Act 2010 and the US Foreign level and locally, to avoid forbidden and/or unethical behaviours diligence checks on third parties the company works with such Corrupt Practices Act (FCPA). and business practices. as agents, sales representatives, external counsels, etc. to ensure their compliance. 20 21 GEOLOG in the World Head Office Office Suite 21B, Gold Tower Jumeirah Lakes Towers, Dubai PO Box 336 542 United Arab Emirates NORTH SEA AMERICAS EASTERN EUROPE & CIS SUB-SAHARA AFRICA MIDDLE EAST FA R E A S T &MEDITERRANEAN ARGENTINA (Buenos Aires & Neuquén) ALGERIA (Algiers & Hassi Messaoud) AZERBAIJAN (Baku) ANGOLA (Luanda) EGYPT (Cairo) AUSTRALIA (Perth) geolog.argentina@geolog.com geolog.algeria@geolog.com geolog.azerbaijan@geolog.com geolog.angola@geolog.com geolog.egypt@geolog.com geolog.australia@geolog.com BOLIVIA (Santa Cruz de la Sierra) DENMARK (Esbjerg) KAZAKHSTAN (Almaty) CAMEROON (Douala) INDIA (Delhi) CHINA (Beijing) geolog.bolivia@geolog.com geolog.north-sea@geolog.com geolog.kazakhstan@geolog.com geolog.cameroon@geolog.com geolog.india@geolog.com geolog.china@geolog.com BRAZIL (Río de Janeiro & Macaé) FRANCE (La Défense) KURDISTAN (Erbil) CONGO (Pointe Noire) KINGDOM OF BAHRAIN (Manama) INDONESIA (Jakarta & Balikpapan) geolog.brazil@geolog.com geolog.france@geolog.com geolog.kurdistan@geolog.com geolog.congo@geolog.com geolog.bahrain@geolog.com geolog.indonesia@geolog.com COLOMBIA (Bogotá) ITALY (Milan) ROMANIA (Bucharest) EQUATORIAL GUINEA (Malabo) KUWAIT (Mangaf ) MALAYSIA (Kuala Lumpur) geolog.colombia@geolog.com geolog.italy@geolog.com geolog.romania@geolog.com geolog.gnq@geolog.com geolog.kuwait@geolog.com geolog.malaysia@geolog.com CHILE (Punta Arenas) LIBYA (Tripoli) RUSSIA (Moscow & Sakhalin) GABON (Port Gentil) OMAN (Muscat) MYANMAR (Naypyidaw) geolog.chile@geolog.com geolog.libya@geolog.com geolog.russia@geolog.com geolog.gabon@geolog.com geolog.oman@geolog.com geolog.myanmar@geolog.com GUYANA (Georgetown) MALTA (Birżebbuġa) TURKEY (Ankara) GHANA (Accra) QATAR (Doha) PAPUA NEW GUINEA (Port Moresby) geolog.guyana@geolog.com geolog.malta@geolog.com geolog.turkey@geolog.com geolog.ghana@geolog.com geolog.qatar@geolog.com geolog.png@geolog.com MEXICO (Villahermosa) NETHERLANDS (Amsterdam & UKRAINE (Kiev) KENYA (Nairobi) SAUDI ARABIA (Al Khobar) SINGAPORE (Singapore) geolog.mexico@geolog.com Ijmuiden) geolog.ukraine@geolog.com geolog.kenya@geolog.com geolog.middle-east@geolog.com geolog.singapore@geolog.com geolog.north-sea@geolog.com PERU (Lima) MAURITANIA (Nouakchott) SRI LANKA (Narahenpita) THAILAND (Bangkok) geolog.peru@geolog.com NORWAY (Stavanger) geolog.mauritania@geolog.com geolog.sri-lanka@geolog.com geolog.thailand@geolog.com geolog.north-sea@geolog.com TRINIDAD & TOBAGO (San Fernando) MOZAMBIQUE (Pemba) UNITED ARAB EMIRATES (Abu Dhabi & VIETNAM (Hanoi) geolog.trinidad@geolog.com TUNISIA (Tunis) geolog.mozambique@geolog.com Dubai) geolog.vietnam@geolog.com geolog.tunisia@geolog.com geolog.uae@geolog.com USA (Houston & Odessa) NIGERIA (Lagos) geolog.usa@geolog.com UNITED KINGDOM (Aberdeen) geolog.nigeria@geolog.com geolog.north-sea@geolog.com VENEZUELA (Maturín) SOUTH AFRICA (Cape Town) geolog.venezuela@geolog.com geolog.south-africa@geolog.com TANZANIA (Dar es Salaam) geolog.tanzania@geolog.com 22 23 www.geolog.com
