2019 Sustainability Report UN Global Compact COP 2019 UN Global Compact COP 2019 COSMOS ALUMINIUM Cosmos Aluminium was founded in 2007 and is a Greek purely exporting company in the aluminium extrusion market sector. The company is located in the region of Larisa. Cosmos Aluminium employs about 170 people and is one of the most technologically advanced factories of aluminium extrusion in Europe. Cosmos Aluminium contributes in the development of the local society by creating new occupations while at the same time, by its exporting activities, advertises the presence and productivity of Greece in a universal level. UN Global Compact COP 2019 The combination of high skilled personnel and state of the art machinery, allows Cosmos Aluminium to offer top quality aluminium products at exceptionally competitive prices. In a few years we have managed to lead the way in our field and last year we completed the expansion of a new production line. This has been achieved through continuous improvement and investments, sophisticated human resourcing, flexible and creative leadership. With its emphasis on sustainability and responsible business practices, the United Nations Global Compact reflects our company. CSR activities:  UN Global Compact  GRI Global Reporting Initiative  ISO 14001:2015 Environmental Standards  OHSAS 18001:2007 Occupational Food & Safety Standards  ISO 50001:2011 Energy Standards  ISO 9001:2015 Quality Standards UN Global Compact COP 2019 The Principles and our Actions Human Rights: Commitment, activities and performance Principle 1: Businesses should support and respect the protection of internationally proclaimed human rights Principle 2: Make sure that they are not complicit in human rights abuses. Commitment: Cosmos Aluminium supports the Universal Declaration of Human Rights. Cosmos Aluminium within its sphere of influence and operates all its businesses in a transparent and trustworthy way. We see no significant risks that we or our suppliers violate UN Global Compact Principles 1-2. UN Global Compact COP 2019 Activities: When selecting employees and determining their assignment in the company, Cosmos Aluminium attaches great importance to qualifications appropriate to the task description. According to an annual survey of Cosmos Aluminium, applicable local minimum wages are well met. Our commitments are not only reflected on our internal employment policies and partnership standards, but additionally our company, as a corporate citizen, provides active financial support to organizations dedicated to human rights protection and supporting the non-privileged. Only in 2019 the company donated over 20000€ to support sports clubs and charities. We promote specific measures to favor the protection of our employees facing family situation, particularly in the cases of serious illness among them or the members of their families. At our annually employee performance evaluation, top management shares financial bonuses to those who excelled at their work. Employees are encouraged to report to the upper management any behavior within the company that they believe may be a violation of the laws or the Code of Business Ethics. Performance: In the past year Cosmos Aluminium has not been subject to any investigations, legal proceeding or incidents involving Human Rights violation. UN Global Compact COP 2019 Labour Standards: Commitment, activities and performance Principle 3: Businesses should uphold the freedom of association and the effective recognition of the right to collective bargaining protection of internationally proclaimed human rights Principle 4: The elimination of all forms of forced and compulsory labour; Principle 5: The effective abolition of child labour; and Principle 6: The elimination of discrimination in respect of employment and occupation. Commitment: Cosmos Aluminium respects the right of its employees and operates its business with safe and attractive working conditions. Cosmos Aluminium respects the freedom of association and collective bargaining and has zero tolerance for forced labour, child labour or discrimination. We have identified the typical risks within the branch concerning labour and subcontracting and monitors the issue on regular basis. Activities: Cosmos Aluminium ensures that every employee is trained and developed according to their customized needs and ambitions. Every new employee attends a training program, especially designed to cover all subjects that affect their daily job and a training program, where they are learning to adhere the principles established by the company, regarding the environment, the health and safety and the energy consumption. UN Global Compact COP 2019 During 2019 Cosmos Aluminium carried out 2 in house training seminars with a cumulative duration of 80 hours, placing particular emphasis on strengthening the skills and increasing the effectiveness of employees. 6 company’s managers participated in these seminars. Three of the company’s administrative employees attended 2 external seminars. Both focused on skills development, with duration of 16 hours. The employees in our company are treated fairly, with respect and humanity, compensated financially and morally according to their achievements and developed in a safe environment of motivation and no discrimination. Representatives of employees arrange meetings every 3 months with the presence of the staff, safety engineer and the occupational doctor in order to express their opinions on health and safety and environmental issues. Cosmos Alumnium offers to every employee an additional 24hr personal insurance for any accident. We choose to support local community, by hiring personnel from the surrounding area. Cosmos Aluminium participates in a basketball tournament in order to promote the warm relationships amongst employees and management. Finally, all operations are certified according to ISO 9001 (Quality management systems) and to the OHSAS 18001 standards (Occupational health and safety management systems). The ISO 9001 and OHSAS 18001 are important tools in our efforts to continuously enhance quality and working environment standards throughout the company. Performance: No incidents on violations of labour rights principals have been reported during 2019. UN Global Compact COP 2019 Environment: Commitment, activities and performance Principle 7: Businesses should support a precautionary approach to environment challenges. Principle 8: Undertake initiatives to promote greater environmental responsibility Principal 9: Encourage the development and diffusion of environmentally friendly technologies Commitment: Cosmos Aluminium operates its core business with emphasis on environmental protection ensuring full compliance to National and European legislation Activities: Cosmos Aluminium complies strictly under ISO 14001 (Environmental management systems) and ISO 50001 (Energy Management System). We operate under environmentally friendly resources, such as natural gas and compressed air with limited use of electricity. We recycle row and secondary materials and any possible waste. We promote an environmental conscious lifestyle to employees for both the office and home through regular seminars and we follow methods to reduce our energy consumption. We monitor and measure the energy consumption. Through some changes and optimization we were able to reduce the energy by 3% from the past year. With the acquisition of electric forklifts we were able to reduce our CO 2 footprint. Performance: No incidents on violations of the environmental principles have been reported. UN Global Compact COP 2019 Anti-Corruption: Commitment, activities and performance Principle 10: Businesses should work against all forms of corruption, including extortion and bribery. Commitment: Cosmos Aluminium fundamentally opposed to any kind of corruption and bribery, our activities conform in total with the applicable law, and this is one of our major criteria in our selection process of a new supplier, customer or employee. We actively follow and observe the changing laws and regulations in the branch. We comply with all legislation and regulations concerning our activities in all respect, such as competition legislation, regulations on corporate governance and employment, environmental and occupational health and safety legislation. Cosmos Aluminium and its employees and others acting on behalf of the corporation may not offer, give or accept bribes or other illegal payments. Business partners and representatives of the authorities may not be offered any inappropriate financial benefits in order to promote Cosmos Aluminium’s business activity. Activities: Cosmos Aluminium works systematically to strengthen business ethics, including Global Compact’s Principle 10. Our ethical guidelines support correct behavior if an employee should face an ethical dilemma. We acknowledge the important role of chain markets for its growth and wish its suppliers to act with responsibility, integrity, honesty and transparency. We evaluate suppliers based on the following standards: • The overall business activity should be guided by respect for and compliance with the applicable local and European laws and regulations. • Fair competition and refraining from unfair trade practices. Suppliers must also take care to safeguard the integrity, prestige and dignity of the profession to which they belong, with respect for the interests of consumers Our purchase department follows strict procurement procedures regarding all purchases of goods. Performance: No incidents on violations of Anti-corruption principal have been reported.
