Contents 0BIntroduction 3 1BResponsible Business 5 2BAbout DWF 6 3BHuman Rights 8 4BModern Slavery 9 5BLabour 11 6BUK Gender Pay Gap 2019 12 7BEngaging our people 14 8BEnvironment 15 9BAnti-Corruption 16 Find out more about DWF www.dwf.law enquiries@dwf.law www.linkedin.com/company/dwf @DWF_Law 2 Introduction 0B Statement from our Group CEO As a global business, we continue to be guided by our values to inform what we do and remain focused on operating sustainably. Through our activities, we strive to conduct our business in a manner that supports universal human rights and is environmentally and socially responsible. In this annual Communication on Progress, we describe our actions to support and improve the integration of the Global Compact and its ten business principles into how we do business and I am delighted to reaffirm that support. Ultimately, we continue to take a sustainable view of our business performance, the how we do things at DWF , to integrate environmental, social and ethical principles to maintain and enhance our long-term value. In doing so, we not only maintain a focus in the areas of Human Rights, Labour, Environment and Anti-Corruption but also directly and indirectly, contribute to the UN Sustainable Development Goals. Andrew Leaitherland Group CEO 3 Our Guiding Principles Human Rights – We conduct business with integrity, complying with all Principle 1: Businesses should support and respect the applicable laws, rules and regulations of the countries in which protection of internationally proclaimed human rights; and we operate Principle 2: make sure that they are not complicit in human – We believe in being good corporate citizens and recognise that rights abuses without thriving communities and talented people our business Labour won't be sustainable, so we have a responsibility to contribute to community prosperity by innovating, learning and sustaining Principle 3: Businesses should uphold the freedom of our performance association and the effective recognition of the right to collective bargaining; – We engage with key stakeholders to build understanding and Principle 4: the elimination of all forms of forced and maintain trust compulsory labour; – We promote a diverse and inclusive workplace and will not Principle 5: the effective abolition of child labour; and tolerate discrimination, harassment or victimisation in our Principle 6: the elimination of discrimination in respect of workplace or in connection with any service provision employment and occupation – We adopt a zero tolerance to slavery, forced labour and human Environment trafficking – We believe in developing mutually beneficial relationships with Principle 7: Businesses should support a precautionary approach to environmental challenges; our suppliers, founded on trust and respect Principle 8: undertake initiatives to promote greater – We work hard to minimise our environmental footprint resulting environmental responsibility; and from our business operations and promote greater environmental responsibility Principle 9: encourage the development and diffusion of environmentally friendly technologies – We report publicly on our sustainability performance through Anti-Corruption our UN Communicating on Progress Report and our Annual 13B Review. Principle 10: Businesses should work against corruption in all its forms, including extortion and bribery 4 Responsible Business 1B Our ambition How we measure progress Our ambition is to make DWF a world leader at responsible As a signatory to the UN Global Compact and its business business, mobilising our collective strength as a force for good in principles covering human rights, employment standards, society to: environment and anti-corruption, we report on our progress – Create a skilled & inclusive workforce today and for the future against measurable outcomes annually. – Help build and sustain thriving communities in which we live We remain an active member of Business in the Community and work (BITC), the largest business-led membership organisation in the UK dedicated to responsible business. We use their Responsible – Play our part to repair and sustain our planet. Business Tracker to measure and evaluate our performance. In Our 5 year responsible business strategy aligns with the UN addition, BITC's Responsible Business Map guides our actions Global Compact's universally accepted business principles and globally to address those issues most pressing in society and our actions are prioritised to contribute to the UN Sustainable where we can make the most meaningful impact. Development Goals and the UN Women's Empowerment Principles. How we make a meaningful difference – Operating responsibly in line with our purpose and values – Creating and sustaining a business that is diverse and inclusive for all employees – Empowering young people in areas with low social mobility to enter the world of work – Raising funds to enable the DWF Foundation to provide grants to charities whose work impacts people in locations where we have a presence – Donating our time and skills to tackle local social issues – Minimising our impact as a low carbon and more circular business – Ensuring a zero tolerance approach to modern slavery and human trafficking in our supply chain. Our success would not be possible without the efforts of our people who are inspired by our purpose and values to behave responsibly and with integrity, shaping the way we do business. Ty Jones Director CSR & Engagement 5 About DWF 2B Transforming legal services through our people for our clients. We connect on a global scale, sharing our knowledge and We are a global legal business, technical expertise to identify and anticipate challenges. We are transforming legal services through our finding new solutions for clients within eight core sectors including people for our clients. Energy and Industrials, Financial Services, Insurance, Public Sector, Real Estate, Retail, Food & Hospitality, Technology and By questioning traditions and thinking beyond conventions, we Transport. achieve outstanding levels of innovation. We have received Building business relationships that inspire trust and confidence recognition for our work by The Financial Times who named us as across all levels of our business; means we deliver an exceptional one of Europe's most innovative legal advisers, and we have a client experience. We work with a range of FTSE 100 range of stand-alone consultative services, technology and multinational household names to private individuals, from both products in addition to the traditional legal offering. the public and private sector. 6 Living our Values Our Values Our culture depends on all of us living our shared values each Created, shared and upheld by our people, our values help us to and every day, so our clients, colleagues, shareholders and other define and reinforce our culture. stakeholders can remain confident that their trust in us is not misplaced. Our values define who we are and what we stand for. They are what we believe and influence the behaviours people see and experience. That is why it is so important that we apply these values to everything that we do. 7 Human Rights 3B Our responsibility is to respect all human rights. Global Human Rights Policy Statement of principles DWF supports the principles of Human Rights set out in the DWF respects and values the dignity, wellbeing and rights of our Universal Declaration of Human Rights, the International Labour people and the wider community, taking action to: Organisation (ILO) core labour standards and is a signatory of the – Support and promote the protection of internationally United Nations Global Compact. In addition, we support the UN’s proclaimed Human Rights; wider development agenda including the UN Sustainable – Ensure we are not complicit in Human Rights abuses through Development Goals. our business relationships and supply chain management; A responsible and sustainable approach to doing business is – Eliminate all forms of discrimination, and promote a diverse and central to our purpose and in conducting our business activities, inclusive workplace; DWF respects these rights and seeks to uphold and promote them as part of the way we do business, working and – Recognise the freedom of association and right to collective collaborating with our people, communities, suppliers, charities bargaining; and other appropriate stakeholders. – Provide a safe and healthy workplace; The way we do business is based on our values and reflects the – Adopt a zero tolerance to slavery, forced labour and human behaviours that we want to be known for internally and externally. trafficking; We run our business with integrity and want our culture and – Minimise our environmental footprint resulting from our values to be at the heart of everything we do, recognising that our business operations, and promote greater environmental people not only want a great place to work, but take pride in being responsibility; part of a principled business. – Help protect human rights and improve opportunities for people In 2017, we published our first Modern Slavery and Human living in the communities where we operate Trafficking Statement. This demonstrates our commitment to – Maintain our position as a Living Wage employer; doing business responsibly and to explaining the meaningful – Embed anti-corruption and ethical standards in our business steps being taken. practices. As a global legal business, we have a responsibility to go beyond stating our commitment to respect Human Rights. We must demonstrate what we do to implement them in practice across our day to day business operations, simply because it is the right thing to do. This includes ensuring that if any human rights violations are identified, we endeavour to take appropriate action swiftly. As a responsible business, we will build on work done so far, and continue to affirm our values, raise awareness among our people, clients, communities and suppliers, and take action where necessary. Andrew Leaitherland, Group CEO 8 Modern Slavery 4B There is no place for modern slavery in our business or our supply chain. Our approach is to understand how and where modern slavery occurs and to continuously review and improve the policies and processes we have in place to prevent it. In practice, this means: – Raising employee awareness of the risks of modern slavery and human trafficking – Reviewing and strengthening our supply chain risk assessment processes – Collaborating across sectors to gain insight and share knowledge and adopt best practice. In addition to our Anti-Slavery policy which sets out our zero tolerance approach, we have a number of policies and procedures in place that reflect the way we do business and set out expectations to all our employees. These policies visibly reflect our commitment to responsible business policies and practices that are fair, transparent and inclusive. These include: – Human rights – CSR – Sustainability – Anti-bribery – Whistleblowing – Diversity & inclusion – Dignity at work. We make sure that all our employees have the appropriate rights to work and are employed in accordance with local legislation. Policies make it clear that we will support and protect ‘whistleblowers’ and that retaliation of any kind will not be tolerated. In the last 12 months we had no reported incidents of slavery or trafficking in our operations. All new joiners to our company are made aware of our Modern Slavery Statement, Anti-Slavery Policy and on line Training via our Induction & On-boarding Portal. 9 Managing our Supply Chain Areas of focus in 2019/20 All DWF suppliers are expected to implement a zero tolerance – We have further developed our awareness training and approach to slavery, forced labour and human trafficking and materials to engage our people comply with all local and national laws and regulations. – 1749 employees (54%) have already completed our new In addition to our Supplier Code of Conduct, we developed our Modern Slavery Training Ethical Sourcing Questionnaire in 2019, as a self-assessment tool – We have continued to engage with our suppliers and clients covering a range of topics including modern slavery and forced – We participated in the UK Home Office Transparency in Supply labour. Chains Consultation through membership of the Greater Expectations of our suppliers are grouped into six key areas: Manchester Modern Slavery Business Network – Human Rights – We have attended external conferences to keep informed of – Health & Safety best practice and take up relevant speaking opportunities to share what we do – Responsible Supply Chain Management – We continue to promote a speak up culture within our – Inclusion & Diversity business to promote openness and transparency and – Business Integrity encourage all of our employees or those working on our behalf – Environmental Management. to raise any concerns. Our procedures are designed to identify and assess areas of LGBT UN Global Standards potential risk and over the past year we have developed a structured approach for any employee involved in the purchasing We strive for all our colleagues to have access to equal of goods and services on behalf of DWF to reinforce the reality opportunity and respect wherever they are located. Alongside that modern slavery is a potential risk within supply chains and some of the world's largest businesses, DWF has made a global must be factored into the decision-making process. commitment in support of the UN Standards which aim to tackle discriminatory practices in the workplace, the marketplace and in In the last 12 months we had no reported incidents of slavery or the community. trafficking from our suppliers. 10 Labour 5B We recognise that our people not only want a great place to work, but take pride in creating it. Fair working practices Health & Wellbeing Our purpose is to transform legal services through our people for We want to continually improve the health of our business through our clients. a combination of preventative, protective and proactive As a global company, this means: interventions that address the cause as well as the effect of any health and wellbeing issues. – Sustaining a workplace where everyone is included, valued and equipped with skills for today and the future In 2019, we became an early adopter of the Mindful Business Charter, a collaboration initially between the financial services and – Nurturing a collaborative culture to maximize the expertise and legal sector to change the way we work by removing avoidable abilities of all our employees stress. As a signatory, we pledge to promote a culture of – Maintaining workplaces that live our values and the importance openness about mental wellbeing, ensure responsible business is of employee wellbeing included as an area of assessment during significant procurement – Ensuring all our employees are treated fairly and with respect processes and drive forward the actions necessary to change and dignity, in a safe and comfortable environment that values working practices in support of the principles of the Charter. and promotes diversity Our Employee Assistance Programme is a completely confidential – Providing opportunities for dialogue, feedback as well as helpline and is there to support our people through difficult times. personal and professional growth. Its available 24 hours a day, seven days a week in all of our locations Inclusive culture We have a collaborative and inclusive culture that drives our The DWF Academy decisions. Our Diversity & Inclusion Policy and Dignity at Work Our Learning & Development Academy was introduced in 2014 policies make it clear that the business takes a zero tolerance and is continually evolving to remain a leading edge learning approach to discrimination, bullying and harassment. management system which facilitates a flexible learning Our Diversity & Inclusion Leadership Group defines and executes environment for all our people. our global inclusion strategy. Executive Sponsors and more than Our approach continues to follow the 70:20:10 principle, whereby 40 senior leaders, supported by our Affinity Networks and network 70% of learning is achieved in role, 20% is achieved through of passionate Diversity Champions, deliver action plans informal learning and 10% is achieved through formal learning supporting gender, race, LGBT+, age, disability, agile and flexible and development. working and mental health. We are building inclusivity by: – Being a force for good in society, acting globally and engaging locally – Demonstrating visible commitment at the highest level – Embedding sustainable and socially responsible business principles – Making DWF a great place to work and do business. 11 UK Gender Pay Gap 2019 6B Employees Hourly Pay Gap 2017 2018 2019 Mean hourly pay gap 24% 23% 22% Median hourly pay gap 27% 24% 23% Self-Employed Hourly Pay Gap 2017* 2018 2019 Mean hourly pay gap 13% 16% 15% Median hourly pay gap 5% 16% 15% Combined Hourly Pay Gap 2017* 2018 2019 Mean hourly pay gap 50% 48% 39% Median hourly pay gap 36% 32% 33% *Not Published in April 2017 Targeted Action In 2019, we introduced Diversity & Inclusion targets. A reduction in our combined mean gender pay gap for a second Whilst we are already meeting the voluntary UK target of having consecutive year, an improvement in female representation and at least 33% of women on our plc Board, our continuing focus is the fact that the proportion of women in our upper pay quartile has on increasing female representation on our Executive Board to at increased, are positive indicators that our actions are having an least 33% by 2022, an increase from 27% and for women to hold impact. at least 30% of other senior leadership positions, an increase However, the slight increase in our median pay gap is a powerful from 27%. reminder that the pay gap is largely the result of having more men ____________________________________________________ at senior levels in higher-paid roles and a higher proportion of women relative to men in roles, which fall within our lower pay 1. The Board to maintain its current gender diversity (33%) quartiles. with no less than three women on the board We recognise that reducing our gender pay gap is an action that 2. Female representation on the Executive Board to be requires a sustained effort at every level of our business and at raised to at least 33% by 2022 every point in the employee life cycle, from attraction & 3. Women to hold at least 30% of senior leadership recruitment through to development, succession planning & positions by 2022 promotion. 4. Target to achieve at least 10% BAME representation Our sustained focus on meaningful actions will result in a more across senior leadership positions by 2022 diverse workforce supported and empowered through our 5. The Board to initiate BAME pay gap reporting by the end inclusive culture and values. of 2020 12 We support the Women's Empowerment In the UK we are proud to be: Principles – A Stonewall Top 100 Employer for LGBT+ employees and BiInclusive Employer of the Year  Establish high-level corporate leadership for gender equality  Treat all women and men fairly at work respect and support – A UK Top 10 Employer for Working Families human rights and nondiscrimination – Ranked 16th in the 2019 Social Mobility Index  Ensure the health, safety and well-being of all women and men – Disability Confident and maintain our Leadership status workers – One of only 9 businesses in the UK to achieve a Gold Standard  Promote education, training and professional development for women performance in the Employer Network for Equality & Inclusion's TIDE benchmark (Talent Inclusion & Diversity Evaluation)  Implement enterprise development, supply chain and marketing practices that empower women – A UK Living Wage Employer  Promote equality through community initiatives and advocacy Target Gender Equality  Measure and publicly report on progress to achieve gender equality. We are taking part in Target Gender Equality, a new programme that will help implement the Women’s Empowerment Principles and strengthen our contribution to Sustainable Development Goal 5 which aims to achieve gender equality in terms of representation, participation and leadership in business globally In 2019 we used International Women's Day (a week long campaign at DWF), National Apprenticeship Week, Responsible Business Week, monthly wellbeing themes, our own annual Diversity Week & International Men's Day activity as key inclusion campaigns. 13 Engaging our people 7B Our Engaging People Executive (EPE) is responsible for driving our ambition to be a great place to work. The EPE has a focus on values and culture, high performance The Rubie Awards and effective communication. It is supported by our Employee Forum to ensure that the input of employees at all levels within 2019 also saw the launch of our annual Rubies Awards. It was the the business is taken into consideration. first time we have celebrated together as a business to reward the hard work and dedication of our people. As DWF grows across Taking our Pulse the globe it's more important than ever that we pause and take a moment to recognise the individuals who are living the values and Our global employee engagement index is currently 75%. In are being true exemplars in their roles. 2019, we moved away from traditional annual surveys to a more frequent digital platform that helps leaders and line managers to build action plans, focusing on the improvements that matters the most for our people. DWF Achievers Alongside this, we launched our digital recognition platform, 'DWF Achievers' which is designed to recognise and celebrate people who live our values and help shape our culture through their performance and the contributions they make to DWF. 14 Environment 8B Climate change is our most pressing shared challenge and opportunity. In supporting the principles of sustainable development, we have As a minimum: in place an environmental management system to identify and – We maintain a target of recycling at 85% per site control the impacts of our business and enhance current working – Recycle all suitable office furniture and equipment (i.e. chairs, practices. desks, photocopiers) As a global company, this means: – Re-used furniture across DWF's offices and some given to – We actively manage our carbon emissions charity – We take action to ensure efficient use of resources, following – Continually seeking to reduce energy use through proactive the Follow the ‘Reduce, Reuse, Recycle’ waste hierarchy estate management, space neutral expansion and agile working – We invest in technology to help drive our sustainability agenda – Encouraging the reduction of plastic bottles/single use plastics we have sourced DWF re-usable cups and bottles which are – In the UK, we maintain ISO14001 certification sold and monies raised support our Charitable Foundation. – We collaborate to develop, apply and promote environmental best practice to enhance our resilience to climate change. In the UK, DWF falls under the Energy Savings Opportunity Scheme ( ESOS ) and completed both Stage 1 and Stage 2 well Carbon emissions generated by the energy we use and the travel within the deadlines set. we undertake, impacts our contribution to climate change. Our ambition remains to minimize our impact as a low carbon and In addition, we understand our responsibility under the more circular business. Streamlined Energy & Carbon Reporting ( SECR ) which is a UK Government reporting programme that came into force on 1 April Carbon emissions generated by the energy we use and the travel 2019. Companies within scope must collect and measure their we undertake, impacts our contribution to climate change. Our energy and carbon information – and submit this as part of their ambition remains to minimize our impact as a low carbon and annual accounts filed with Companies House. more circular business. Reducing carbon emissions: Year Tonnes per person per year 2015 2.6 2016 2.3 2017 2.25 2018 1.3 2019 1.5* *A slight increase in 2019 to 1.5 – due to international growth and the resultant business travel. 15 Anti-Corruption 9B We take a zero tolerance approach to bribery and corruption. Having policies in place that encourage individuals to raise DWF business conduct and ethics concerns is a core part of an ethical and supportive business culture. We are committed to maintaining an open culture with the Our ambition is to be a world leader in responsible business highest standards of honesty and accountability, a culture where We continue to align our operations to support the UN Global colleagues can report any legitimate concerns in confidence. Compact and its business principles covering, human rights, Our policy development in this area reflects the key outcomes of employment standards, environment and anti-corruption. risk assessments conducted into our business practices as a We are also committed to playing our part in delivering on the UN global business. Whistleblowing and anti-bribery and corruption Sustainable Development Goals – 17 global goals designed to are essential components of this. end poverty and protect our planet. In 2020, we will launch our Code of Conduct which describes how Together, we are responsible for a working environment where we put our values into practice. Its purpose is to help us to do the our values, policies and Code of Conduct are actively supported right thing, to ask the right questions and make the right decisions and together we must make sure everyone who works for us or every day. with us understands the way we do business. The Code covers areas such as respect for human rights, Together we will: discrimination, conflicts of interest, information security, bribery & – Sustain a safe, healthy and productive place to work and do corruption and whistleblowing. business Zero Tolerance – build an agile, inclusive and sustainable workforce – compete for business legally, fairly and ethically While this Code provides guidance for certain situations there are specific areas where we have a zero tolerance approach: – mobilise our collective strength as a force for good in society – Unsafe, illegal or unethical working practices – avoid situations that create real or potential conflicts of interest – Discrimination, bullying and harassment – maintain our zero tolerance approach to bribery or any form of unethical inducement or payment to gain any advantage for – Bribery and corruption DWF – Retaliation against anyone who speaks up and does the right – support the principles of Human Rights set out in the Universal thing Declaration of Human Rights across our global operations We are committed to maintaining an open culture with the highest – not engage in any form of human trafficking or use forced, standards of honesty and accountability, a culture where compulsory, illegal or child labour, or knowingly work with colleagues can report any legitimate concerns in confidence, anyone who does without detriment to the person raising the concern. The promotion of our global whistleblowing and antibribery & – work with suppliers who share our ethical standards corruption policies will form part of our new Speak Up campaign – contribute to the global effort to reduce, reuse and recycle in 2020, which will also include the launch of a Speak Up helpline. wherever possible – encourage everyone to Speak Up if they are unsure about what to do, or concerned that our values, policies or Code are being compromised – continue to review our operating procedures and processes to ensure we do business in an ethical, sustainable and responsible way. 16 . Beyond borders, sectors and expectations DWF is a global legal business, connecting expert services with innovative thinkers across diverse sectors. Like us, our clients recognise that the world is changing fast and the old rules no longer apply. That’s why we’re always finding agile ways to tackle new challenges together. But we don’t simply claim to be different. We prove it through every detail of our work, across every level. We go beyond conventions and expectations. Join us on the journey. © DWF 2020. DWF is a legal business operating through various separate and distinct legal entities. Our lawyers are subject to the rules of the regulatory body with whom they are admitted. For further information about these entities and DWF’s structure, please refer to the Legal Notices page on our website. All rights reserved. www.dwf.law
