COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS 2019 This is how we create value 1 | Our resources 2 | Our operations and business model Financial capital Business process SEK 24 billion in capital from shareholders and Wallenstam builds, develops and manages properties and generated profits that remain in the company and areas based on the needs of people and society, and SEK 24 billion from external lenders. according to the wishes and requirements of customers and shareholders. We create value growth through Produced capital construction, development and management with a high More than 200 properties – residential properties in level of service and long-term sustainability. Profits are attractive locations in the growth regions of Gothenreinvested and used to further develop the business. burg, Stockholm and Uppsala as well as commercial Shareholders receive a share of the profits in the form of properties in Gothenburg inner city. 66 wind turbines dividends. from Jämtland in the north to Skåne in the south, producing renewable energy. Efficient management and development Our properties and public areas adjacent to the properties Human capital are developed and refined based on maintenance plans Just over 250 dedicated and knowledgeable and customer needs and wishes. Safety, comfort and longemployees and combined competencies through partterm profitability are key words when we, for example, moners within management, service and construction. dernize the courtyards of residential buildings, Social and relationship capital carry out optimized All customers that live in our around 9,500 rental operations projects, or apartments, or that work in the offices, shops etc., when we develop inwhich comprise more than 500,000 sq m of commerner city environments cial floor space. In addition, relationships with financito contribute to meeting places and a city pulse. Through ers, partners, municipalities and local communities. our own wind power production, we are self-sufficient in renewable energy, something that makes us less sensitive Intellectual capital to changes in the electricity price. About 11,000 potential apartments in the project portfolio which can become future homes for families Successful letting organization through our combined experience and processes With good knowledge of the local market and its needs concerning management, construction and urban and great commitment in taking care of customer reladevelopment with dialogue and collaboration. tionships, a strong basis is created for maintaining a uniform and high occupancy rate in our commercial holdings. Natural capital The residential holdings are fully let and in line with the Land, energy and building materials such as wood, completion of our new construction projects, letting of a stone and metal provide the basis for our construction large number of apartments occurs every year. operations. Cost-efficient construction We mainly build rental apartments for our own management, but also a smaller number of co-op apartments and commercial properties. Our process and flexible business model, makes it possible to complete our new construc218 tion projects in both economic upturns and downturns. We work continually on acquiring land and seek land PRO PERTI ES Wallenstam has 1.2 million sq m of lettable area, allocations in order to regularly replenish our project of which just over 500,000 sq m is commercial floor space. portfolio. 2 THIS IS HOW WE CREATE VALUE We create value growth through construction, development and management with a high level of service and long-term sustainability. TH W O R G E LU VA Construction, development and management of housing NEED PROFIT and commercial premises with a high level of service and long-term sustainability. Dividend Build and buy Manage and develop 3 | Created value for our stakeholders Owners Suppliers, partners and lenders »» Stable and safe investment »» Paid goods and services »» Share price trend »» Interest payments »» Share dividend »» Long-term collaborative relationships »» Value growth »» Jobs Customers Society and the city »» Functional, qualitative homes and well-adapted, »» Regional development through more housing and flexible working environments premises for people and companies »» Realized entrepreneurial and residential dreams »» More attractive, lively cities with pleasant meeting places »» Housing free from financial risk and developed infrastructure and service »» Simplified and hassle-free everyday life – at home »» Tax revenue and jobs and at work »» Engagement in the local community and sponsorship Employees Environment »» Jobs with secure and stable employer »» More renewable energy »» Personal and professional development »» Lower environmental impact by reduction of energy »» Remuneration and benefits use, carbon emissions and water consumption in our properties »» The possibility of charging electric vehicles, solutions for sorting at source, and initiatives to promote cycling etc. THIS IS HOW WE CREATE VALUE 3 Business plan 2019–2023 GOAL 2023 To achieve an increase in net asset value of SEK 40 per share T he goal to achieve an increase growth is created by successful letting, efin net asset value of SEK 40 per ficient management, value-creating investshare during the period is equivaments, cost-efficient new construction and lent to an increase of 50 percent strong business operations. starting from October 1, 2018. As of September 30, 2018, the Group’s During the business plan 2023, Wallenstam net asset value amounted to SEK 25,608 is continuing to work in the growth regions million, which is equivalent to SEK 79.20 of Gothenburg, Stockholm and Uppsala. We per share and is the starting point for the are striving to become even more servicemeasurement. On December 31, 2019, the oriented, productive and efficient, so that we net asset value amounted to SEK 29,501 can create even more value for our shareholmillion, which corresponds to SEK 91.30 per ders, employees, customers and society as a share. This means that we have generated whole. During the business plan, the equity/ SEK 12.10 per share to date. Net asset value assets ratio shall not fall below 30 percent. Increase in net asset value, SEK/share 40 30 20 12.10 10 3.10 0 Q4 2018 2019 2020 2021 2022 2023 4 BUSINESS PLAN 2019–2023 Net asset value growth is created by successful letting, efficient management, value-creating investments, cost-efficient new construction and strong business operations. Guiding principles Our guiding principles aim to clarify important focus areas in our operations. CU S TO M ER EM PLOY EE EN V I RO N M EN T We shall exceed customer Through our strong We shall reduce our expectations and improve the corporate culture, we shall environmental impact every overall impression of Wallenstam be an attractive employer and year, through initiatives within the every year through attractive improve our Engagement Index focus areas energy, transports apartments and premises as score every year. and resources. well as good service. read more on page 6 read more on page 7 read more on page 8 The Sturefors block, Gothenburg. BUSINESS PLAN 2019–2023 5 GUIDING PRINCIPLE CUS TOMER “We shall exceed customer expectations and improve the overall impression of Wallenstam every year through attractive apartments and premises as well as good service.” O ur customers are at the center of our business Through telephone calls, e-mail and personal contacts, and it is important for us to be able to offer the we meet out customers every day, including through right product and service to our residential and our customer service that receives reports of defects and commercial tenants. Satisfied customers that viewpoints. We also meet our tenants at different customer are happy are loyal and rent longer with us, events, for example occupation-related meetings. These which among other things, contributes to lower relocameetings benefit the relationship between us and our custotions, less wear and tear and increased security. A satisfied mers and between the tenants, and knowing your neighcustomer is also a good ambassador for us as a company. bours contributes to increased satisfaction and security. Good testimonials from our customers Increased follow-up During 2019, we conducted a CSI (Customer Satisfaction Index) The work on improving our processes and implementing the survey where we asked our customers what they think about action plans will continue over the next few years. We plan to our service, our product and our image. The outcome showed increase the follow-up of our efforts and customers’ experience that we obtained very high ratings in a number of areas. The of these through shorter, focused surveys of different areas of availability and response from our customer service is top class, our operations. In this way, we can listen faster and adapt to our our capable partners obtained high ratings in relation to property tenants’ viewpoints. Every second year, we will conduct a major maintenance in our properties and customers are satisfied with survey in the entire holdings. their apartments and their premises, for example with regard to design and standard. Our service index, which is a weighted rating for several areas within service and response, improved compared to the previous survey. CSI provides focus areas Based on the results, we have identified areas for improvement that we contined to work on during the year. This resulted in a number of action plans and procedural changes. This work occurs on a company-wide basis and is led by a process manager with the entire customer journey in focus, from letting and occupation, information and contact with us as a landlord to cancellation and removal. We are also looking specifically at the process around handling cases of reports of defects, so that our customers can obtain even quicker help with their cases. The action plans relate for example to operation, such as venDuring fall 2019, we started a training initiative in how we meet our tilation and indoor climate, as well as cleaning and maintenance customers through conversations and personal meetings. All in our properties, but also targeted projects that aim to make it employees and Wallenstam Partners who in their work have a lot of easier for customers to act in an environmentally-friendly way. customer contact, will have the opportunity to advance their knowledge and skills in relation to the right response, communication and tonality. This can, for example, involve sorting at source or recharging possibilities for electric bikes. We are meeting our customers’ need to contact us via different channels. During 2019, we launched the Wallenstam App for our residential tenants, where tenants can communicate with us and their neighbors, book the laundry room and other common areas. We are continually improving the App and are gradually connecting more of our properties. 6 GUIDING PRINCIPLE CUSTOMER GUIDING PRINCIPLE EMPLOYEE “Through our strong corporate culture, we shall be an attractive employer and improve our Engagement Index score every year.” K nowledgeable and dedicated employees are one Managers have a key role in promoting employee of our success factors as a company and the commitment. During the year, a large part of the management training in the company focused on how a most important resource for our operations. leader can work to increase the commitment among the Dedicated employees ensure more satisfied employees and allow it to permeate the leadership. tenants and more efficient operations. The work with the guiding principle affects the entire company and is led by a process manager, who in 2019 focused primarily on: Mapping how the measurements Involving all employees in our of our Engagement Index score corporate culture and our values shall be implemented The corporate culture is a large part of how the company is feeling and doing. Wallenstam is basically a family The Engagement Index not only includes how satisfied business and takes good care of its employees and the employees are, but also shows to what extent the ensures opportunities for development. Often a corpoemployees take responsibility for and feel involved in the rate culture is unspoken and difficult to define. We have company’s mission – our goals, our business concept therefore worked during the year to clarify and describe and our vision. We want to improve our Engagement Inwhat Wallenstam’s corporate culture implies and means dex score every year and have analysed how the followfor our employees. An enterprising attitude, stability, up should be made, how the measurements should be purposefulness, security, togetherness and equality are carried out and how often they should occur. During the some of the qualities that our corporate culture is based coming year, we will start the measurements, as part of on and that are connected to our core values, respect, our employee surveys. commitment and progress. To develop our entire process around employer branding How we are perceived as a company by potential, current and previous employees is important for attracting and retaining dedicated employees. In this work, we want to improve and quality-assure all stages in the process in order to further strengthen Wallenstam as an attractive employer. Attract Recruit Introduce Develop Terminate Read more about Wallenstam’s organization and how we work with personnel-related issues on page 40. GUIDING PRINCIPLE EMPLOYEE 7 GUIDING PRINCIPLE ENVIRONMENT “We shall reduce our environmental impact every year, through initiatives within the focus areas energy, transports and resources.” T he property sector has a significant impact on the up and on defining new goals within the guiding principle environment, climate and society, an impact that Environment. We have formed an environmental group we take responsibility for as a major property which is led by our Sustainability Manager with repreowner and construction company. sentatives from the entire organization. The aim of the Our efforts contribute both to a reduced group is to bring together experience from the operations, environmental impact and lower operating costs. During formulate goals, strategies and action plans that will be the first year of the current business plan, we focused on firmly established in the Management and implemented mapping routines and processes for statistics and followthroughout the entire organization. FOCUS ARE AS In order to delineate and concretize the work in the guiding principle Environment, we have selected three focus areas: energy, resources and transports. Each area implies different kinds of challenges, and for this reason we continued our work during the year on mapping how each area should be designed. Among other things, this meant that we have been in contact with suppliers to gather statistics and data, which will form the basis for the continued environmental work. Based on this supporting data, environmental goals will be defined. It is important that each environmental goal is commercial, realistic and ambitious. »» Within the energy area, we are a leader today because we are self-sufficient in renewable energy from our wind turbines. We have also started to install solar cells in our properties. The challenge we are now facing is connected to the heating of our properties and how we should reduce our climate impact here. »» The term resources is broad and we have currently been focusing on aspects such as waste, water and material. We divide waste into waste from our tenants, and waste connected to our new construction. »» As a first step in the work in the transports area, we have focused on trips that the company’s employees make. Geothermal heating from 88 different 300-meter-deep holes In our urban development project Umami Park in Sundbyberg, we are installing one of the Stockholm area’s largest geothermal heating plants, which will supply all of the so-called Central block containing 37,000 sq m of commercial floor space with heating and cooling. The plant will be powered by our internally-produced electricity and will be commissioned in February, just before the first tenants move into the reconstructed and newly renovated premises. Wallenstam’s sustainability work covers more than climate and environmental issues – read about how we work with the UN’s global sustainable development goals on page 27. 8 GUIDING PRINCIPLE ENVIRONMENT Hans Wallenstam, CEO Wallenstam Comments W e generated an increase in net asset value of SEK 9 per share during the first calendar year in the new business plan, of the SEK 40 by the CEO which is our goal for 2023. Income from property management increased by 10 percent to just over SEK 1.1 billion and the surplus ratio came in at 75.5 percent. These are really excellent numbers, which once again show how well the operations and our business model are working. Our anniversary year is now at an end and I can confirm that it was a very good year. It was High demand generates higher property values Demand for properties is pretty incredible right now and especially nice in November, the very month is a natural consequence of the fact that we are in a low when the company was established 75 years interest rate environment where properties are regarded as a safe investment option. The strong demand for properties ago, to be able to unveil our new logo and is affecting yield requirements and consequently also the graphic identity. I am personally very proud of valuation of our property holdings. The changes in value of our properties amounted to SEK 2.6 billion in 2019. It the designed logo, which has received many is extra satisfying to see that the changes in value from our positive reactions. The new design – with the efficient new production are making an increasing contribution to our value growth. My opinion and that of many ant and name in a modern style – reflects both others is that the low interest rates will persist for a long our history and future. time to come. COMMENTS BY THE CEO 9 Value-creating over time nability pervades all of our operations and all decisions, Wallenstam’s share is a long-term investment. The share important ones as well as minor. has had a stable positive development for a long time During the year, Jämtkraft took over our company without large fluctuations in the market price. We deveSvensk NaturEnergi with electricity sales to end custolop, build and manage with a high level of service and mers, a changeover that has worked well, and which feels long-term sustainability – this is how we create value. Our extra nice in view of the fact that Jämtkraft also shares continual value-creating work combined with our dividend Wallenstam’s values regarding sustainability. We have help to ensure the share’s stable development. The Board of retained all our 66 wind turbines and are still self-sufficient Directors will propose an unchanged dividend of SEK 1.90 in renewable energy, which has been the case since 2013. per share in view of the major investment program that we In the energy area, we have installed some individual solar are in and have ahead of us. We always want to do what panels as a pilot project in selected properties. During is best for our shareholders, and therefore it feels right to 2020, we will continue these efforts on a larger scale in strike this balance, through a stable financial position in several of our buildings. combination with our value-creating business concept. It is also gratifying that the European Investment Bank, EIB, has entered as a new financier in our energy-efficient Two Vice CEOs rental apartment productions. For us, this represents a In October, Marina Fritsche, Regional Director for confirmation that we are working in a sustainable way, sinGothenburg, was also appointed as Vice CEO. Since 2007, ce a precondition for the financing is that the projects meet Mathias Aronsson has been Vice CEO and Regional Directhe EIB’s requirements for “nearly-zero-energy building”. tor for Stockholm and Uppsala. The company has decided The aim of the financing is also to support the construction that each Regional Director shall also be a Vice CEO of of rental apartments and thereby reduce the severe housing Wallenstam, a title that strengthens the Regional Director shortage in Sweden’s largest cities. position. Wallenstam thus has two Vice CEOs who lead the company’s operations in two business areas. New production rate Our new production is progressing as planned and we are Sustainability in all decisions continually starting new projects. We currently have more During the year, we formed our sustainability department, than 3,000 apartments under construction. Of these, conwhich brings together all of the sustainability work that struction started of more than 1,200 apartments during has been carried out over many years in the company and 2019. Among other things, we finally started more than which is driving our sustainability initiatives and strategy 400 apartments in our largest urban development project work. Wallenstam has already signed the UN’s Global Kallebäcks Terrasser in Gothenburg. Here, we are also Compact, which means that we support and work on the building a commercial property of 20,000 sq m, mostly basis of ten principles in the areas of human rights, labor, office space. the precautionary approach, anti-corruption and taking of Given the huge housing need that exists, it is important responsibility in relation to environmental issues. Sustaithat those of us building rental apartments can maintain 10 COMMENTS BY THE CEO “Income from property management increased by 10 percent to just over SEK 1.1 billion and the surplus ratio came in at 75.5 percent. These are really excellent numbers, which once again show how well the operations and our business model are working.” inner city. This gives us greater freedom of action and makes it easier for us to find creative and aternative solutions for each property. Our letting organization continually works close to 158 apartments in the market in order to find the right mix for a lively and Trollesunds Gårdar in attactive inner city. During 2020, we are welcoming for Bandhagen, Stockholm, became ready for occuexample Götaplatsgruppen to Magasinsgatan in Gothpation around year-end enburg. Reconstruction is currently in progress of the 2019. premises in Artilleristallarna and in September the doors will open to a new meeting place for Gothenburgers and visitors to the city. the production rate and provide our regions with new homes, particularly as cooperative apartment production Passing of our Chairman of the Board Christer Villard has now decreased. About 100,000 people have registered In September, our Chairman of the Board, Christer Villard, in our own queue for newly constructed apartments in passed away after a short period of illness, a huge loss. Stockholm, Uppsala and Gothenburg. Christer, who was part of the Board for 25 years, of which We are keenly aware of how the market and demand are 15 years as Chairman of the Board, was both a mentor for developing, and we are also testing other forms of housing. me and a fantastic friend. Over the years, he made an invaFor example, we are now building co-living apartments, luable contribution to the company’s development and I am which will be introduced into our holdings during 2020. It extremely grateful for all the knowledge, experience and will be exciting to follow the development of modern colcommitment he provided. He is missed by many of us! lective living – through Colive. I hope and believe that this can be a popular product in today’s society, like coworking Thank you! has become, where we share workplaces. I would like to thank the Board and express a special thank you to Ulrica Jansson Messing, who quickly and very Services, shops and restaurants important for office effectively took over the role of Chairman of the Board in tenants connection with Christer Villard’s passing. I also want to Of course we are also taking on challenges. One challenge thank all our fantastic employees whose dedicated work currently facing many property companies is the fact that has enabled us to be so successful. physical stores are being subjected to tough competition Approaching year two of the business plan, we have a from e-commerce. In addition, we have the challenge of the very good starting position – a business and organization ongoing work with the West Link project in Gothenburg, which is well-equipped and prepared for future challenges, which will make access to the city more difficult for some a business model that generates confidence and scope for time. flexibility and a strong financial position that provides For us, this work means additional focus on finding difus with freedom of action and good opportunities to be ferent solutions for business activities in the ground floors proactive. I am looking forward with excitement and antiof our properties so that we can create the right conditions cipation to an interesting 2020! for a lively streetscape. Offices account for the majority of our floor space in our commercial properties. For our office tenants, it is important that there are services, shops and restaurants that provide life and a pulse in the local area, while the businesses benefit from the customer potential of the commercial tenants. Therefore, we always take a holistic approach in a property and in an area, so that different activities can complement each other. It is a strength that our commercial properties are located in Gothenburg Hans Wallenstam, CEO COMMENTS BY THE CEO 11 Solar cells provide more renewable energy In order to test and evaluate how we can use solar power, we have installed solar panels in a few of our residential properties in Stockholm and Gothenburg. Solar power is mainly produced during the May–August period, and is used by the tenants in each building. During the coming year, we will review our entire property holdings and continually install solar panels in the properties that have the right technical and economic conditions. Responsible enterprise Wallenstam wants to contribute to a better society, today and for future generations. This is our driving force and what makes us proud of our business. For us, sustainability is about pursuing responsible enterprise. We achieve this by taking responsibility for the impact we have on society and by creating solutions that contribute to a long-term positive development. Wallenstam supports the UN’s Global Compact initiative and this section constitutes our Communication on Progress (COP report). W hen Agenda 2030 was adopted, the world’s operational risks, improves efficiency, generates new solucountries came together to limit global wartions and business and ensures more engaged employees, ming to well under 2 degrees. During 2019, more secure investors and more satisfied customers. For reports continue to show that we must act this reason, sustainability is a core part of our business. collectively, and rapidly reduce emissions in For us, sustainable enterprise is also about continuous order to achieve the targets. improvements, setting goals and developing our operaAgenda 2030 contains ambitious goals in relation to tions, where our sustainability efforts play a part. Refining equality, poverty, peace and justice. Wallenstam is contiand streamlining our processes in order to further improve nuing to focus on our five prioritized goals, all aimed at our working methods. promoting a sustainable development. We believe that integrated sustainability work and strong Organization, governance and reporting social engagement go hand in hand with long-term profitDuring 2019, the work continued on developing and driability. This delivers good control, minimizes business and ving Wallenstam’s sustainability work in accordance with “Nudges” for better sorting at source By creating so-called “nudges”, an encouraging push, we will make it easier for tenants to sort their refuse correctly. The project, which was carried out in a property in Barkarby, started during 2019 in collaboration with Beteendelabbet. In the first phase, we had to map the needs. During next year, we will continue the project, where we will introduce, test and then evaluate the initiative. the company’s sustainability policy, with Karin Mizgalski Initiative (GRI) since 2010. We also reported on our emisas Sustainability Manager. The CEO is ultimately responsions of greenhouse gases and other climate-related data sible for the work with the material topics and risks that during the year to the CDP (Carbon Disclosure Project). are prioritized in Wallenstam’s sustainability work. The practical and day-to-day sustainability work is conducStakeholder dialogue ted in all parts of the operations and all employees have During fall 2018, we conducted a stakeholder analysis, a responsibility to implement and drive the sustainability which formed the basis for the work with our business plan efforts in their respective departments. Outcomes are fol2019–2023. Through our stakeholder dialogues, we obtain lowed up and regularly reported to Group Management a relevant view about external requirements and wishes. The and the Board. result of the stakeholder analysis is the basis for the work Wallenstam has reported its sustainability work every performed in the guiding principle Environnment, which is year since 2006 and reports according to Global Reporting described on page 8. MATERIAL SUS TAI NAB I LIT Y ARE AS BASED O N S TAKEH O LD ER D IALOGU E | IMPORTANCE FOR STAKEHOLDERS | Critical Stable financial position Customer and anti-corruption B A Financial position G Customer satisfaction in balance B Anti-corruption D Social conditions and Environment employees E C A C Good working H Greenhouse gases conditions I Energy efficiency K I H D Safe and secure J Waste management J working K Sustainable building environment materials G E Inclusive Very important F corporate culture F Equality and diversity Very important | WALLENSTAM’S IMPACT | Critical 13 RESPONSIBLE ENTERPRISE Agenda 2030 Wallenstam has prioritized five global sustainable development goals (SDGs) in the UN’s Agenda 2030. Within these goals, we work in various ways with a number of different sub-areas in order to help reach the goals. energy and energy storage. During 2019, solar cells were Gender equality installed in some properties to test and evaluate how the technology can be used in a larger part of our holdings. Since May 2019, our wind turbines are financed through Gender equality and diversity green bonds, which were issued within our newly estaFor us gender equality and diversity are important prinblished framework. The framework obtained the highest ciples. Employers should work together with employees to rating Dark Green. achieve gender equality and diversity. Gender equality and diversity issues must be integrated throughout the organization and its working methods. During recruitments Decent work and in our internal processes, for example in relation to and economic growth development initiatives and setting of salaries, we work to ensure that men and women have the same conditions and Long-term sustainable financial position we shall work together to ensure a progressive organizaWe create the right conditions for a long-term sustainable tion where discrimination on all grounds is prevented. financial position in harmony with the environment and Nevertheless, we need to maintain an ongoing dialogue social development. Long-term profitability is one of the about what gender equality, respect and diversity mean in basic requirements for us as a company and our owners our company. Our Code of Conduct is clear that discrimiwant to see a return on the capital they have invested in the nation must not occur. Read more on page 40. business. Through efficient organization, cost-efficiency in the entire operations and focus on locations with growth and strong demand, we can ensure long-term economic staAffordable and clean energy bility. This also means that we should be profitable – profits that we can reinvest in the business. Wallenstam is flexible in a volatile housing market in a Renewable energy way that provides assurance for our stakeholders. We mainly Our largest carbon footprint for heating of properties build rental apartments for our own management, and procomes from district heating. To the extent that the heating vide badly needed housing. During the business plan, we will is based on waste heat or is produced with renewable raw work for even more efficient processes in our management, materials, district heating can be a good environmental letting, new construction and other activities. Through alternative. We are self-sufficient in renewable energy profitable property development, we create value for our through our own wind turbines, and aim to be able to customers, society in general and also for the company’s emreplace district heating with our own internally-produced ployees and owners. Long-term plans and investments over wind power in more and more of our properties. time also create secure jobs in production and management. We are also investigating and evaluating other technical Read more about how we work with our customers and solutions for sustainable energy production, such as solar employees in focus, on page 6, and page 7, respectively. Reuse of construction material During the year, the frames started to be erected in Kallebäcks Terrasser. In connection with backfilling of basements, we have chosen to reuse crushed concrete from the demolished buildings instead of purchasing and transporting in new concrete. By reusing the concrete, we have saved 6,700 transports by truck. Wallenstam’s supply chain In our business, we utilize the services of more than 3,000 suppliers, including our Wallenstam Partners that perform 66 property upkeep and maintenance, and building contractors who are involved in our new construction operations. We buy goods and services from suppliers including energy, WI N D TU RB I N ES IT, and telecommunications companies, and borrow capital from Jämtland in the north to Skåne in the south. We have been self-sufficient in renewable energy since 2013. from banks. In addition, we use the services of consultants such as technical consultants and architects, and others. Often suppliers in turn use the services of subcontractors. Our suppliers are usually domiciled in Sweden, but for instance, sourcing of construction material etc. also occurs in other European countries and in the rest of the world. We aim for close and long-term collaboration, which Within the scope of our urban development projects, we means that we can develop together with our partners. want to create the conditions for safe communities already As a client, we have both a responsibility and an opportuduring the projecting and zoning plan work. We can nity to demand good operational standards in the entire achieve this by planning premises for various types of acproduction chain. During procurement of contractors and tivities, such as offices, stores, geriatric and child care etc. purchasing of services, the responsibilities of our partners We are developing our existing properties and carrying out are stipulated in agreements in relation to business ethics, activities in collaboration with our commercial tenants, the environment, working conditions, safety etc. the city and other organizations in society, with the aim of creating a vibrant inner city. Since 2019, we are letting two Sustainable cities and communities apartments in Umami Park as intergenerational housing, in order to meet the many different family structures in society today. The apartments will make it easy for different generations to live closely together but still separately Urban development of safe areas through two different entrances to complete homes, which We aim to create safe and welcoming areas and properties can serve as a large unit but at the same time be divided for that people want to live in, work in and visit. Both the individual living. physical environment and relationships with neighbors We actively participate in research and development and visitors in the area, influence tenants’ perceptions of within urban development, construction and management. security. In the work to increase security, we are making Development efforts can relate to all from new technology a number of efforts in the day-to-day management as well in management operations to modern mobility solutions as selective measures. One example is our collaboration in new city districts. A large part of our development with Huskurage, an organization which works proactively work occurs in collaboration with others. Supported by through neighborhood cooperation to prevent violence Wallenstam’s Innovation Council, Daniel Svartling, the in close relationships. During the fall, we distributed the company’s Innovation Manager, is working on creating book “Från oro till omtanke” to all of our just over 9,000 new sustainable business opportunities. Results from our residential tenants, a book where Huskurage offers simple different projects become solutions in the housing of the advice for ensuring more safe homes. future and town planning. 15 RESPONSIBLE ENTERPRISE Self-sufficiency in renewable energy Our renewable energy investments were initiated to increase words, minimizing the time that turbines do not generate control over our electricity expenses and our climate impact. electricity due to disruptions or planned stoppages – for Since 2013, we have been self-sufficient in renewable energy example by carrying out maintenance work at times when through our 66 wind turbines, which have an installed total there is no wind. Production is also continually optimized output of 143 MW, located from Jämtland in the north to by various types of capacity increasing modifications and Skåne in the south. Our high ambitions to be self-sufficient upgrades, including new software to improve production during all months mean that we shall meet our energy needs efficiency. in the Group even during July when wind power production in Sweden is at its lowest. Electricity trading and prices The wind turbines shall provide Wallenstam’s properties With the divestment of Svensk NaturEnergi to Jämtkraft on with renewable energy and thereby make the management April 1, 2019, our own electricity sales to end customers operations less sensitive to changes in the electricity price. ceased. We still sell the electricity we produce to the Nordic electricity market and Wallenstam will continue to only Operation and production purchase the internally-produced wind power. We follow the In total, we produced 367 GWh (338) during the year. development of the electricity price, handle hedging and We work actively on boosting our turbine uptime, in other sales of renewable energy certificates. Social engagement for reduced exclusion types of transports are still under development in some of Wallenstam is passionate about fighting exclusion and our urban development projects, for example in Kallebäcks about creating city districts where everyone can feel safe Terrasser in Gothenburg. Today we are installing recharand a sense of belonging. We believe that supporting youth ging possibilities for electric vehicles in our new construcactivities in the local communities where we operate is a tion projects. Transports will continue to be a focus area recipe for success. For this reason, we participate in many during the business plan 2019–2023. local projects, which focus on helping young people to Internally, we encourage the use of public transport to have active leisure time. Examples of our initiatives include and from the workplace by offering the possibility of buyletting premises for associations, creating meeting places ing an annual travel card through a net salary deduction. and supporting activities for young people and particularly Electric bikes are available for shorter trips and we have vulnerable groups. The aim to reduce exclusion is also the expanded our carpool with ten additional electric cars. background for our collaboration with organizations such This reduces the need to take your own car to work and the as Project Playground, Barnens Ö, Stiftelsen Läxhjälpen, use of pool cars will generate much less carbon emissions. Mitt Liv, Stockholm City Mission, the Refugee Mission in Gothenburg and many sports associations. Resources in focus Cooperation and support mainly occur through sponHow we use our resources is becoming increasingly sorship and participation in different sustainability-related critical, which is also evident in our internal work and in initiatives. dialogues with stakeholders. For this reason, in our current business plan, we have chosen to define it as a new focus Transports for tenants and employees area in our sustainability work over the coming years. ReWe are looking at various mobility solutions in order to sources consist of several elements, such as waste manageoffer our tenants practical and environmentally-friendly ment, recycling, building materials etc. transport solutions. We offered carpooling in a number of The possibility of sorting at source is offered in our properties during the year. This initiative was evaluated properties, both for residential tenants and for commercial during 2019 and a decision on development of mobility tenants. Needs vary with the tenants’ businesses and the solutions will be taken during the coming spring. Compopossibilities also vary depending on the design and location site mobility solutions involving bicycles, cars and other of the properties. Within this area, there are improvements We are looking at various mobility G LO BAL CO M PACT solutions in order to offer our tenants Wallenstam has signed the UN’s Global Compact, which means that we support and work on the basis of ten practical and environmentallyprinciples relating to human rights, labor, the precautionary friendly transport solutions. approach, anti-corruption and taking of responsibility in relation to environmental issues. to be made, both to make it easier for tenants and to reduce resources and create a good financial position with conour environmental impact. There is also great potential for tinuous improvements. Individual electricity and water a reduced environmental impact in our new construction metering has been standard in our new construction since operations, when it comes to sorting at source, recycling and 2006. Such an installation usually contributes to a reducmaterials. As part of trying to improve the sorting possibition in consumption by tenants of 10–25 percent following lities, a project has been initiated with the aim of improving a running-in period. environmental efficiency for our tenants. In 2019, we started Wallenstam is also driving developments for a lower monitoring the amount of residual waste from our properenvironmental impact through different collaborations and ties, where a first step has been to investigate what statistics initiatives. For example, we collaborate with Fossilfritt we can obtain from our waste management suppliers. Sverige, which is a governmental initiative which started before the climate change conference in Paris in 2015, and with Mälardalen University, which conducts research and Climate action innovation for energy-efficient construction and housing. Environmental certification of properties Drive the development for reduced environmental impact There are several environmental programs and certificaWe place great importance on limiting environmental tion systems for buildings in the market, such as Green impacts in our production, operation and management Building and Miljöbyggnad (“Sweden Environmental of properties. The property sector in Sweden uses a lot of Building”). We use environmental programs as a specificaenergy and accounts for a large proportion of the overall tion for requirements concerning energy usage, quality of carbon footprint in society, which means that it is a prioindoor environments and climate as well as choice of materitized area for Wallenstam from an environmental and rial for both new construction and existing buildings. economic perspective. Our aim is to achieve at least a Miljöbyggnad Silver Environmental legislation impacts many parts of our rating for our new production and many of our properties business and includes health protection, waste management meet the requirements for certification under this standard and potential disruptions from properties such as noise, although they are not certified. We have chosen to certify smoke and odors. There are also rules for maximum energy our buildings when required, for example by a municipausage for our properties and soil remediation measures lity or customer. Four residential properties in the environbased on soil investigations prior to construction starts. mentally-designed Kvillebäcken district in Gothenburg are The standard of our work is not always based on legislacurrently certified according Miljöbyggnad Silver rating. In tion or external requirements but we also create solutions our commercial holdings, we are working to reduce the enourselves. This occurs to a large extent in operation of ergy use so that properties meet the requirements for Green properties, where we continually optimize and operate Building certification. At present, one of our properties is metering in order to reduce consumption of energy and certified according to Green Building. HEATING CONSUMPTION, CLIMATE ADJUSTED CO 2 -IMPACT FROM OUR HEATING kWh/sq m g/sq m 100 5,000 95 4,000 90 3,000 85 2,000 80 0 0 15 16 17 18 19 15 16 17 18 19* * Estimated value for actual impact, see pages 146–147. 17 RESPONSIBLE ENTERPRISE Clarity with values The Code of Conduct, and a number of guidelines connecOur core values – progress, respect, commitment – are ted to it, set out Wallenstam’s approach and clarify how we clearly reflected in the long-term sustainability work. want to act as a company. The goal is to have an environProgress shows our attitude to continual improvements, mental, social and commercial commitment in everything that the work is never finished. We find rewarding collabowe do. We shall comply with laws and regulations, and ration, for example with researchers regarding solar cells apply responsible business methods – characterized by high and battery storage, in the planning work with municipabusiness ethics and good business practice. We impose lities and land owners and with partners in order to offer requirements on contractors that enter into cooperation services to our tenants relating to mobility. agreements with us that they follow the content of the Respect towards each other in the company is something Code of Conduct and act according to it. Violations of the natural. We want to spread the same attitude during Code of Conduct, internally or by partners, can damage contacts with customers, contractors, suppliers and other Wallenstam’s operations and brand. stakeholders. For instance, that we comply with laws and The Code of Conduct, which is available in its entirety regulations, that we do not insult or discriminate against on www.wallenstam.se, is revised annually and adopted by anyone and that we work actively to ensure the equal value the Board. of everyone, both in the company and in society. Respect in business is based on active anti-corruption work. We have We want to be close to our a declared zero tolerance policy against bribery, inappropriate gifts and the like. The boundary for what is a bribe customers and offer good overall or equivalent extends a long way. Our internal guidelines solutions for housing and premises. help determine how we should act in relation to bribery and inappropriate gifts. Training and information about the Code of Conduct Our drive to contribute to a better society is based on and specific guidelines, for example on anti-corruption a great commitment. We want to be close to our custoand information security are mandatory for all employees mers and offer good overall solutions for housing and including the Group Management and Board. Training ocpremises. We are committed to our commercial tenants’ curs regularly, as part of the introductory program for new operations and we want to be flexible to meet their needs. employees, among other ways and as digital training. Our ambition is to conduct long-term sustainable business Wallenstam’s Ethics Council, with representatives from and develop responsible enterprise for the benefit of both the entire business, holds about four meetings annually. society and our own operations. We see that it is important The Ethics Council is the body that works centrally in the for society to have attractive, vibrant inner cities and more Group on continually advancing the Group’s anti-corruphousing. Wallenstam safeguards the rental apartment, tion work, and it conducts risk analyses in the area and which is a flexible form of housing for the tenant and proposes possible measures. The Ethics Council receives crucial so that more people will have the chance to reside regular questions of an informational character that the in our cities. Council answers. Most questions relate to what employees can give or receive, in other words, questions connected to Code of Conduct and Ethics Council business ethics and corruption. We provide information In the construction and property sector, there are risks, for to all employees based on commonly asked questions. No example related to the working environment, corruption, cases arose during the year where further investigation was human rights and the environment. Our Code of Conduct required. The Council has an external whistleblower serves as a guide for us. It is based on our core values, and function, which is also accessible via a link from Wallenprovides guidance and continuity for our actions all the stam’s website. During 2019, no cases were reported via way to the dialogue and meeting with our stakeholders. this function. H U MAN RI G HTS Our operations are conducted in Sweden and we follow applicable rules for example relating to working conditions, the working environment and freedom of association. Wallenstam supports the UN Declaration of Human Rights and we see that we can contribute positively in many areas, including by fighting discrimination, treating everyone with respect – employees and customers as well as others we meet – and offering equal opportunities to employees. Having a home is a fundamental need and constitutes an important part of a functioning society. Ultimately, 350 social contracts we want to contribute to a good living standard for many people by producing and managing residential properties, primarily rental apartments, and develop safe, secure and lively city districts. There is currently a severe housing shortage, which also means that many people are finding it hard to get their own home. We currently have about 350 social contracts with municipalities and organizations, where we make housing available for people who find it difficult to obtain a regular contract. For example, this can relate to transitional accommodation. Several of the contracts change over to regular leases when it is possible for the tenant. RISK AREAS OPERATIONS Production and management of properties Description of risk » Occupational accidents. » Unpredictable events that result in increased costs, such as environmental factors, for example substances in soil or leakage that requires decontamination or areas of natural value that need to be protected. Description of opportunity » Safe working environment without personal injuries. » Good financial position and environmental performance. » Value growth through new construction projects. Risks that Wallenstam’s management » Working environment plan is prepared early on and followed up during the entire project. generate Building work environment coordinators are appointed to ensure occupational safety in the planning stage. In contractor agreements, opportunities coordinators are appointed with equivalent responsibility during the construction phase. M Sufficiently long time plans to avoid stress and inimizing risks and optimizing oppmistakes. ortunities is an integrated part of our » Analysis of environmental risks during acquibusiness. Wallenstam’s employees partisition of land, soil investigations during new cipate in both the risk inventory and the construction and continual investigations of preventative work. The risks are assessed environmental risks. based on harmfulness and probability, and are prioriti» Efficient organization of projecting, planning, zed by the Management and Board. The work aims to procurement, construction and choice of develop strategies and measures to reduce the risks and contractor. optimize opportunities. This is ongoing work, which is continually developed and the company’s compliance function is responsible for follow-up. All events cannot be foreseen. For this reason, part of our risk work is to be prepared for crisis manageOpportunities and ment. We conduct regular drills of our crisis manarisks connected to gement organization based on special guidelines and the operations refer crisis checklists. This helps to minimize losses to the to matters that are operations and our stakeholders. related to our core business. 19 RISKS THAT GENERATE OPPORTUNITIES Partners Employees Description of risk Description of risk » Competition for contractors. » Less confidence or attractiveness among » That procurements are not conducted/ existing and potential employees. agreements not correctly entered into, which » Not to be able to recruit and retain employees can cause uncertainty about responsibility with the right competencies and commitment. and increased costs. » That employees do not live and act according » That partners do not follow entered into to the company’s values. agreements or our Code of Conduct. Description of opportunity Description of opportunity » To be perceived as an attractive employer. » Good collaboration, long-term planning, good Possibility of recruiting employees with the financial position and high quality. right profile and competencies. » That we have secure and efficient processes » Development of employees and the company. for purchasing and signing of contracts, » To develop employees, the operations and the providing secure collaboration. brand based on strong common values. » Good business ethics and satisfactory working conditions among contractors and subcontractors. Wallenstam’s management » The guiding principle focused on employees is important for quality and satisfied customers. Wallenstam’s management Offer a good working environment, attractive » Develop long-term relationships and welland market-related working conditions, health established collaboration with contractors and and wellness training, skills development and suppliers. internal recruitment for new positions. » We have developed processes and templates » The synthetic options scheme for employees, for procurement and purchasing, we bring in which offers clear participation in the the right competencies to the process and at company’s development. least two people always review tenders and » Recruitment is prioritized as a strategic area. agreements before they are signed. The processes are being strengthened and HR » Information to and dialogue with contractors competencies shall always be engaged during about required compliance with Wallenstam’s recruitments. Code of Conduct. » Regular employee surveys are a tool for » Project managers are highly knowledgeable improvements, connected to the guiding and very closely involved with their projects. principle of an annual improvement in the Routines for follow-up of agreements and Engagement Index score, which is followed up on-site checks. during the business plan. » Routines for logbooks and ID checks etc. » Introduction program with conference about at workplaces. Spot checks at partners are the company’s history, values, policies and performed regularly. guidelines etc. » Training and development of routines » Managers are supported in dialogues about regarding supplier checks. the values in the form of checklists, templates for development discussions etc. RISK AREAS OPERATIONS Anti-corruption Financing Information and IT security Description of risk Description of risk Description of risk » Risk for corruption linked to » Weak liquidity impedes » That IT systems are attacked allocation of apartments/ investments and the ability and the operations manipupremises. to meet payment obligations. lated or that information gets »» Risk for corruption during prointo the wrong hands. curements and purchasing. » That sensitive information is circulated to the wrong people. » Non-compliance with legal requirements. Description of opportunity » Strong liquidity provides the Description of opportunity freedom of action to com» Good control of business plete approved investments operations, credibility for and obligations. business partners and other stakeholders and assurance Description of opportunity for employees with clarity » Well-functioning and fit-forregarding rules and routines. purpose IT security for our operations and that information is handled securely. Wallenstam’s management » Increased administrative » Proximity to the market efficiency due to IT security and the banks. Good reroutines. lationships with several Wallenstam’s management lenders provides good »» Clear processes and tempfinancing possibilities. lates for procurements, » Financing is always sepurchasing and letting. Routicured before new construcnes where two persons shall tion starts, which eliminajointly review and authorize tes the risk of low liquidity. Wallenstam’s management lettings and purchasing and » Focus on strong liquidity » Continual work with secualso check tenders and agreeand high equity/assets rity-enhancing measures ments prior to signing. Spot ratio. surrounding IT security, checks for checking agree» Liquidity forecasts are upgrades of firewalls, antiments. Focus on checking exupdated continuously with virus protection and sysisting contracts, for example the objective of optimizing tems, anti-hacking tests, unlawful subletting. cash management. routines for IT security etc. » An Ethics Council tasked » Policy and guidelines for with driving and monitoring information security as well the anti-corruption work at as internal information and Wallenstam. Internal infortraining. Routines for information and support through mation sharing and handling. the Ethics Council. » A Data Protection Officer » Accessible whistleblower who works continually with function. GDPR issues. » Internal transparency about side-line jobs and assignments that may affect interests. 21 RISKS THAT GENERATE OPPORTUNITIES RISK AREAS EXTERNAL Economic situation Supply and demand Description of risk Description of risk » Weaker property values. Increased land » Lower demand, for example for commercial prices. premises, co-op apartments, or rental apart» Lack of resources and increased costs. ments. » Protracted planning processes and a shortage of available land. Description of opportunity » Positive development in the value of our Description of opportunity properties. » Heavy and stable demand for our products. » Increased access to land and land allocations » Good access to land for new construction. as most other players do not have the same long-term possibilities for investments during an economic downturn. Wallenstam’s management » Own and manage properties in attractive Wallenstam’s management areas, which are characterized by growth and » Having properties in attractive locations strong demand. lowers the risk of falling values during an » Proximity and close relationships with tenants. economic downturn. » Follow market trends and be prepared for » Our new construction means less sensitivity to changes in demand. changing property values, since we generate » Flexible business model with the possibility surplus values in our construction, mitigating to convert and adapt supply, form of tenure the effects of a downturn. Profitability is also and conditions etc. in the event of changing ensured in the event of a change in market demand. conditions through high demands in relation to » Long-term planning and close collaboration return on invested capital. with municipalities and several concurrent » Self-sufficiency in renewable energy provides development projects. lower price senstivity in relation to electricity. » Land acquisition in focus. Opportunities and risks connected to the external environment exist outside of our operations, e.g. in the form of changing market conditions. These are risks that we have little ability to influence in the short term, but which we must take into account in the planning of strategic development. RISK AREAS EXTERNAL Interest rates Changes in laws and regulations Description of risk Description of risk » Interest rate increases that result in higher » Changes in laws, regulations and regulatory costs and a large impact on profits. requirements, for example relating to the environment, design, tax issues, charges etc., which result in increased costs and additional administration. Description of opportunity » Long-term assurance and control over financing costs. Description of opportunity » Changes in laws and regulations, which result in reduced costs and less administration. Wallenstam’s management » Loan portfolio of different maturities and spread among various forms of credit and lenders. Choice of the term for capital tied-up Wallenstam’s management is based on factors such as pricing and » Follow development of issues concerning our refinancing risk in the capital market. operations. Interpret legal cases and » Interest derivatives are used to diversify risk, regulatory changes that may result in to protect the underlying portfolio and as a changed conditions. flexible means of influencing the fixed interest » Proactivity in order to meet new requireterms in the loan portfolio. ments, practice and laws. » Comment on proposals, meetings with decision-makers in order to clarify the consequences for the property sector. » Energy-efficient construction and selfsufficient in renewable energy. 23 RISKS THAT GENERATE OPPORTUNITIES Infrastructure and urban development Climate Description of risk Description of risk » Changes and construction of infrastructure or »» Climate changes are expected to result in larger other matters that can affect the attractivevolumes of rainfall, warmer periods, increased ness of our properties negatively. flows in watercourses and more powerful winds which can impact our properties negatively. Description of opportunity » Changes and construction of infrastructure or Description of opportunity other matters that can affect the attractive» In the work that is being carried out to handle ness of our properties positively. the climate impact, there are opportunities to create synergies that benefit our construction and management operations. Wallenstam’s management » Continual monitoring of the development of our areas. Wallenstam’s management » Co-operation with the municipality, other » Existing properties in vulnerable locations property owners, tenants and center associahave preparedness, for example water protections. tion equipment. » Initiatives in cooperation with tenants to » Ensure hardened surfaces around properties strengthen the attractiveness of the inner city in order to handle large amounts of rain during through events, offers, accessibility, marketing a short period. and communication etc. » In connection with planning new construction, the possible consequences of a changing climate are considered. » Production of renewable energy results in a lower global climate impact. SENSITIVITY ANALYSIS Property value with other yield requirements SEK million Cash flow SEK million 0.50 percentage points lower 60,377 Change in rental income, residential, 1% 9.4 0.25 percentage points lower 56,027 Change in rental income, negotiable commercial contracts, 1% 1.9 0.10 percentage points lower 53,753 Change in operating costs, 1% 5.0 Property value according to our estimate 52,354 Change in loan interest rate, 1 percentage point (annual basis) 134 0.10 percentage points higher 51,104 0.25 percentage points higher 49,233 0.50 percentage points higher 46,489 Organization and employees Our biggest strength of all is our employees. We are careful to maintain an atmosphere where consideration is shown to employees and to offer challenges that provide individuals with the opportunity to grow in their professional roles. Today, just over 250 people work in the Wallenstam Group and they are strongly engaged in the company’s development. Attractive employer lenstam provides opportunities for advancement within the One of the key factors for successful enterprise is dedicated company, e.g. by announcing vacant positions internally first. people with the right competencies in the right place. We want to be an attractive employer and be able to offer a Focus on health and wellness training good and pleasant workplace, which offers employees the We have clear policies and routines in place to identify ill opportunity to develop and grow along with the company. health among our employees, and we attach great imWallenstam works actively on offering good conditions portance to the physical working environment and healthand an excellent working environment and places great promoting activities. There are excellent opportunities for weight on competencies, personal attributes and qualities. both group and individual training in fitness centers at each Read more on page 7 about our guiding principle where office, while health and wellness training is subsidized. All the focus through our strong corporate culture, is to be an employees are also offered regular occupational healthcare attractive employer and improve our Engagement Index with the purpose of promoting continued good health. score every year. Working for equality Training and development At Wallenstam, women and men have the same conditions. Employee performance reviews are conducted annually Equality initiatives based on several different aspects, for to support career and personal development, follow up example during recruitments, development initiatives and jointly-established goals, gauge the work situation and plan setting of salaries, are an ongoing process, which we as a future skills development efforts. Skills development occurs company are continually working to maintain and improve. continally via external and internal training courses and The distribution between women and men is perfectly through exchange of knowlege among colleagues. This, as uniform in the Group Management. At middle management well as challenges in the day-to-day work are other important level, the distribution is 52 percent women and 48 percent elements of a positive work situation. As far as possible, Walmen, while in the company as a whole, it is 59 percent wo25 ORGANIZATION AND EMPLOYEES 254 EM PLOYEES Wallenstam had an average of 254 employees during 2019 (251). The majority are permanent employees, with a distribution of 59 percent women and 41 percent men. Approximately 30 percent of the employees are based in Stockholm and the remainder are in Gothenburg. Wallenstam’s employees are covered by the collective bargaining agreement with Fastigo. AGE DISTRIBUTION IN THE GROUP Number of 100 80 60 40 20 0 Age 20–29 30–39 40–49 50–59 60–69 Men Women 8 years men and 41 percent men. In the Board of Directors, the current distribution is 75 percent women and 25 percent men. IS TH E AVER AG E LEN GTH O F EM PLOYM ENT Values and Code of Conduct for permanently employed personnel at Wallenstam. Absence due to illness during the year amounted to 3.5 percent (3.3). The day-to-day operations are conducted on the basis of Employee turnover during the year was 7 percent (6). the Group’s core values; progress, respect and commitment. Overall, the work at Wallenstam is governed by policies, guidelines and instructions and by decision-making and authorization procedures, which are all important for clearly defining the company’s standpoints and working EDUCATION LEVEL Secondary school, 1% methods for the entire organization. The Code of Conduct is based on our core values and emphasizes the policies and guidelines that govern the Group in relation to employees, customers, suppliers and partners. The goal is to have an environmental, social and commercial commitment in everyUpper secondary, University or 33% equivalent, thing we do. We shall comply with laws and regulations, and 66% apply responsible business methods, which are characterized by high business ethics and good business practice. Improvement metrics We conduct regular employee surveys to measure employees’ views of their personal work situation, the compaPERIOD OF EMPLOYMENT ny and its management. Here we also continually follow up our Engagement Index score. The results are used as one of >10 years, 32% 0–2 years, 29% a number of tools for improvements in the company. Areas singled out in the surveys for Wallenstam were mainly highly-regarded leadership, confidence in the management and a strong feeling of togetherness. We also conduct regular evaluations where employees provide feedback to their manager based on a number of 6–10 years, 24% 3–5 years, 15% identified criteria which are important in the leadership at Wallenstam. The result is used as an individual development tool for the company’s managers. REPRESENTATI O N BOARD O F D I RECTO RS Management and building operations with a local presence Wallenstam is organized into two regions: the GothREPRESENTATI O N G RO U P MANAG EM ENT enburg business area, and the Stockholm business area, which also includes the operations in Uppsala. Property management and building operations are conducted in each business area with Wallenstam’s own managers and building project managers that cooperate with external suppliers. This local preWomen Men sence enables knowledge about the local property market, changes and business opportunities and provides the basis for understanding our customers’ needs and businesses. This promotes commitment and drive, both in the organization as a whole and on the part of each employee. Our staff, specialized in e.g. finance, law, IT, personnel, information and market, supports our operations. Business area Business area Stockholm Gothenburg CEO & Staff functions Central customer service Our customer service is organized as a central function within the company, which enables longer opening hours and a high level of accessibility for our customers who can reach us via the web, e-mail or cost-free phone call. Systematic work and welldeveloped routines ensure that cases are handled in the best way and we report back to customers during the process. Follow-up and improved routines help us in our continual ambition to increase customer satisfaction. Partner concept for property care Property care and maintenance are services we procure from external suppliers through a welldeveloped partner concept, Wallenstam Partner. 99% Recognition and peace of mind for the customer are created by a common working method and by During 2018, all permanent employees in the company were having the Wallenstam logo on clothes and ID cards. invited to participate in a new synthetic options scheme, which is Close collaboration, frequent partner meetings and used as a further incentive for employees to actively contribute to value creation in the business. More than 99 percent of employees visits to buildings by our own property managers have opted to participate in the scheme, see also page 82. on a rolling schedule are important for assuring the quality of property care. 27 ORGANIZATION AND EMPLOYEES Wallenstam’s GRI reporting Wallenstam applies Global Reporting Initiative, GRI Standards. The reporting follows the financial year and is published annually as part of the annual report. The latest GRI Report was published on March 21, 2019. This report describes how the Wallenstam Group has worked with sustainability issues during 2019. Wallenstam has defined the scope of the report as the areas referred to in the GRI index. A table is provided on the following pages of what GRI disclosures are reported and where information about the disclosures is found in Wallenstam’s reporting. This report has not been reviewed by an external party. The contact person with regard to the reporting and its content is Sustainabilty Manager Karin Mizgalski, karin.mizgalski@wallenstam.se. Information is provided below on the disclosures that are not reported elsewhere in the annual report. 102-8: INFORMATION ON EMPLOYEES AND OTHER WORKERS 302-1: ENERGY CONSUMPTION WITHIN THE ORGANIZATION The average number of employees in 2019 amounted Unit 2018* 2019 2020 2021 2022 2023 to 254. All of the Group’s employees are permanent Fuel consumption employees, with the exception of six people who are proTotal fuel consumption from MWh 521 496 non-renewable sources bationary employees and ten people who are employed Heating oil MWh 379 353 on a temporary basis, for example in the form of work as Natural gas MWh 142 143 a substitute. Eleven people work part time, all of whom Fuel consumption from renewable sources are permanent employees. Wallenstam had no significant Non-applicable variation in the number of employees during the year. Energy consumption Electricity** MWh 41,280 37,889 Temporary employees are not reported, as Wallenstam Heating i MWh 89,081 87,611 uses temporary employees to a minor extent. District heating i MWh 88,560 87,115 Oil MWh 379 353 102-11: PRECAUTIONARY PRINCIPLE OR APPROACH Natural gas MWh 142 143 In many instances, Wallenstam acts in accordance with Cooling MWh 557 425 the precautionary approach, even though we do not District cooling MWh 557 425 Green cooling MWh use it as a concept in governance and strategies. For Total energy consumption, MWh 49,983 47,395 example, the precautionary approach is used in our work non-renewable i on identifying, analyzing and following up risks. Total energy consumption, MWh 80,934 78,531 renewable i Total energy consumption i MWh 130,917 125,925 102-13: MEMBERSHIP OF ASSOCIATIONS Representatives of Wallenstam are represented in the Heating per sq m KWh 80.4 79.9 climate-adjusted i governing bodies of Avenyföreningen, Fastighetsägarna Göteborg 1:a regionen, Fastighetsägarna Inom Vallgraven Own electricity production from renewable sources (FIVA), Göteborg Citysamverkan ideell förening, MölnWind power MWh 337,880 367,246 lycke Centrumförening, Nordisk Byggdag and Barn i Nöd. 302-3: ENERGY INTENSITY 201-1: DIRECT ECONOMIC VALUE GENERATED AND DISTRIBUTED 2018 2019 2020 2021 2022 2023 SEK million kWh/per sq m i 110 105 Refers to energy use in Wallenstam’s property holdings, not climate-adjusted, including wind power, district Direct economic value generated heating, district cooling, oil and natural gas. Does not include tenants’ electricity use. Revenues 2,899 Economic value distributed Payments to suppliers -4,261 302-4: REDUCTION OF ENERGY CONSUMPTION* Of which, VAT without right to deduction -531 Unit 2019 2020 2021 2022 2023 Employee wages and benefits, incl. pensions and taxes -252 Fees and benefits to the Board and CEO, incl. pensions and taxes -12 Total reduction MWh 4,992 Paid energy tax, stamp duty, property tax -134 Reduction electricity MWh 3,390 Interest payments to providers of capital, net -223 Reduction heating MWh 1,470 Dividend to shareholders and repurchase of shares -614 Reduction cooling MWh 132 Economic value retained -2,597 305-1: DIRECT GREENHOUSE GAS EMISSIONS*** Unit 2018* 2019 2020 2021 2022 2023 * Base year 2018 – commences from start of the business plan 2019–2023. Direct greenhouse gas emissions ton 132 123 ** The electricity item includes electricity consumption relating to heat pumps. 305-2: INDIRECT GREENHOUSE GAS EMISSIONS*** *** All data regarding CO2 in this table is based on inputs from Unit Comment 2018* 2019 2020 2021 2022 2023 suppliers, which report according to prevailing accounting Electricity ton CO2 Market-based method: 0 0 standards. As data for the actual impact in 2019 was not 100% internally generated wind power available during preparation of this reporting, the heating ton CO2 Location-based method: 578 493 data is based to a minor extent on estimated values based Average emission factor for on the emission factors for the year 2018. Sweden (Svensk Energi) District 5,097 4,690 i See GRI Index page 147, disclosure102-48. heating i District 0 0 cooling 28 WALLENSTAM’S GRI REPORTING 305-4: GHG EMISSIONS INTENSITY*** 2018 2019 2020 2021 2022 2023 g CO2/per sq m i 4,400 4,032 Refers to Scope 1 and 2 (market based) CO2 emissions in Wallenstam’s property holdings excluding tenants. 305-5: REDUCTION OF GREENHOUSE GAS EMISSIONS*** Unit 2018* 2019 2020 2021 2022 2023 Reduction of greenhouse gas emissions ton CO2 416 Total emissions CO2 per sq m i g 4,400 4,032 Reduction of CO2 per sq m % 8.4 Accumulated reduction since 2018 per sq m % 8.4 401-1 NEW EMPLOYEE HIRES AND EMPLOYEE TURNOVER New employees 2019 of whom in Age Number of persons of whom women/men Gothenburg/Stockholm Under 30 years 11 5/6 7/4 30-50 years 10 3/7 6/4 Over 50 years 0 Total 21 8/13 13/8 406-1: INCIDENTS OF DISCRIMINATION AND CORRECTIVE ACTIONS TAKEN No incidents of discrimination were reported in 2019. GRI content index GRI Standard Disclosure Page number Omission General Disclosures GRI 102: 102-1 Name of the organization cover General 102-2 Activities, brands, products, and services 67 disclosures 2016 102-3 Location of headquarters 67 102-4 Location of operations 67 102-5 Ownership and legal form 76 102-6 Markets served 43-48 102-7 Scale of the organization 67, 72-73 102-8 Information on employees and other workers 40-42, 146 102-9 Supply chain 30-31 102-10 Significant changes to the organization and its supply chain Not applicable 102-11 Precautionary Principle or approach 10, 32, 146 102-12 External initiatives 27-33 102-13 Membership of associations 146 102-14 Statement from senior decision-maker 9-11 102-16 Values, principles, standards, and norms of behavior 27-33 102-18 Governance structure 132-136 102-40 List of stakeholder groups 3, 5, 28 102-41 Collective bargaining agreements 41 102-42 Identifying and selecting stakeholders 27-28 102-43 Approach to stakeholder engagement 27-28 102-44 Key topics and concerns raised 28 102-45 Entities included in the consolidated financial statements 76, 121 All units are covered by the GRI reporting. 102-46 Defining report content and topic Boundaries 27-28, 33 102-47 List of material topics 28 102-48 Restatements of information Changed calculations have occurred as a result of updated values for 2018 in respect of disclosure 302-1, 302-3, 305-2, 305-4 and 305-5. 102-49 Changes in reporting Not applicable 102-50 Reporting period 146 102-51 Date of most recent report 146 102-52 Reporting cycle 146 102-53 Contact point for questions regarding the report 146 102-54 Claims of reporting in accordance with the GRI Standards 146 102-55 GRI content index 147-148 102-56 External assurance 146 Index continues on next page WALLENSTAM’S GRI REPORTING 29 GRI content index, cont. GRI Standard Disclosure Page number Omission Agenda 2030 UN Global Compact SDG Principles** Wallenstam Material Topics Stable economy GRI 103: Manage103-1 Explanation of the material topic and its Boundary 1-4 , 22, 27-29, 36-38 ment Approach 2016 103-2 The management approach and its components —”— 103-3 Evaluation of the management approach —”— GRI 201: Economic 201-1 Direct economic value generated and distributed 64-65, 71-73, 82-83, 117, 146 Performance 2016 Anti-corruption 10 GRI 103: Manage103-1 Explanation of the material topic and its Boundary 28, 30, 32-33, 36, 41 ment Approach 2016 103-2 The management approach and its components —”— 103-3 Evaluation of the management approach —”— GRI 205: Anti205-2 Communication and training about anti-corruption 33 corruption 2016 policies and procedures Sustainable materials 9 GRI 103: Manage103-1 Explanation of the material topic and its Boundary 8, 31-32 * ment Approach 2016 103-2 The management approach and its components —”— 103-3 Evaluation of the management approach —”— Energy efficiency 8 GRI 103: Manage103-1 Explanation of the material topic and its Boundary 8, 27-32, 39 ment Approach 2016 103-2 The management approach and its components —”— 103-3 Evaluation of the management approach —”— GRI 302: Energy 302-1 Energy consumption within the organization 146 2016 302-3 Energy intensity 146 302-4 Reduction of energy consumption 146 Greenhouse gas emissions 7, 8 GRI 103: Manage103-1 Explanation of the material topic and its Boundary 8, 27-32, 39 ment Approach 2016 103-2 The management approach and its components —”— 103-3 Evaluation of the management approach —”— GRI 305: 305-1 Direct (Scope 1) GHG emissions 146 Emissions 2016 305-2 Indirect (Scope 2) GHG emissions 146 305-4 GHG emissions intensity 147 305-5 Reduction of GHG emissions 147 Waste management GRI 103: Manage103-1 Explanation of the material topic and its Boundary 8, 30-32 * ment Approach 2016 103-2 The management approach and its components —”— 103-3 Evaluation of the management approach —”— Fair and decent employment 3, 4 GRI 103: Manage103-1 Explanation of the material topic and its Boundary 7, 28-30, 32-33, 35, 40-42 ment Approach 2016 103-2 The management approach and its components —”— 103-3 Evaluation of the management approach —”— GRI 401: Employ401-1 New employee hires and employee turnover 41, 147 ment 2016 Occupational Health and Safety GRI 103: Manage103-1 Explanation of the material topic and its Boundary 7, 35, 40-42 ment Approach 2016 103-2 The management approach and its components —”— 103-3 Evaluation of the management approach —”— Wallenstams Own WOD-1 Sick leave 40-41 Disclosure (WOD) Customer satisfaction GRI 103: Manage103-1 Explanation of the material topic and its Boundary 2-3, 6,11, 27-29, 49-51 ment Approach 2016 103-2 The management approach and its components —”— 103-3 Evaluation of the management approach —”— Wallenstams Own WOD-2 Key conclusions of customer surveys 6, 43 Disclosure (WOD) Diversity and gender equality 6 GRI 103: Manage103-1 Explanation of the material topic and its Boundary 7, 28-29, 33, 40-42 ment Approach 2016 103-2 The management approach and its components —”— 103-3 Evaluation of the management approach —”— GRI 405: Diversity 405-1 Diversity of governance bodies and employees 40-42, 84, 133 and Equal Opportunity 2016 Inclusive business climate 6 GRI 103: Manage103-1 Explanation of the material topic and its Boundary 7, 28-29, 33, 40-42 ment Approach 2016 103-2 The management approach and its components —”— 103-3 Evaluation of the management approach —”— GRI 406: Non406-1 Incidents of discrimination and corrective actions taken 147 discrimination 2016 *During the year, Wallenstam continued to map this focus area in order to define goals. ** UN Global Compact Principles Principle 3, Labour: Businesses should uphold the freedom of association and the effective recognition of the right to collective bargaining. Principle 4, Labour: Businesses should uphold the elimination of all forms of forced and compulsory labour. Principle 6, Labour: Businesses should uphold the elimination of discrimination in respect of employment and occupation. Principle 7, Environment: Businesses should support a precautionary approach to environmental challenges. Principle 8, Environment: Businesses should undertake initiatives to promote greater environmental responsibility. Principle 9, Environment: Businesses should encourage the development and diffusion of environmentally friendly technologies. Principle 10, Anti-corruption: Businesses should work against corruption in all its forms, including extortion and bribery. 30 WALLENSTAM’S GRI REPORTING Annual General Meeting 2020 Definitions Share yield Return on equity The proposed dividend as a percentage of the Profit after tax in relation to average equity, Wallenstam’s Annual General Meeting 2020 will take plaRegistration may take place in the following ways from and share price at the end of the period. calculated on a rolling 12-month basis. See ce on Tuesday, April 28, 2020 at 4.00 p.m. at the Elite Park including March 19, 2020: page 65. Share total yield Avenue Hotel, Kungsportsavenyen 36–38 in Gothenburg. » on Wallenstam’s website at wallenstam.se/arsstamma The share price trend during the year incluReturn on total capital The venue opens for registration at 3.30 p.m. » by telephone on +46 31 743 95 91 ding distributed dividend as a percentage of Profit before tax with reversal of interest the share price at the start of the period. expenses and early redeemed derivatives for Due to the continued spread of the Coronavirus, this » by mail to Wallenstam AB (publ), FAO: the latest rolling 12-month period in relation to year as a precautionary measure, we will not offer refreshLouise Wingstrand, SE-401 84 Gothenburg, Sweden The number of shares average total capital employed. See page 65. ments and a mingle in connection with the AGM. ShareThe number of registered shares at any given time. Number of shares outstanding: the Interest coverage ratio holders who display the slightest symptoms of illness, who There are proxy forms available on Wallenstam’s website number of registered shares less repurchased Profit or loss before changes in value and have relatives who are sick, who have stayed abroad during at wallenstam.se/arsstamma for shareholders wishing to be own shares at any given time. Average numimpairment charges with reversal of net the last two weeks before the AGM or who belong to a risk represented by proxy. ber of shares: weighted average number of financial items and early redeemed interest shares outstanding at any given time. rate derivatives for the latest rolling 12-month group, should not participate, but can vote by proxy. The Shareholders who have their shares registered with period in relation to net financial items and same applies to any legal/financial assistants. nominees must re-register their shares in their own name in Loan-to-value ratio early redeemed interest rate derivatives for Interest-bearing liabilities and lease liability Our ambition in the present situation is to make the AGM order to have the right to participate in the AGM. Such rethe latest rolling 12-month period. less cash and cash equivalents in relation to as short and efficient as possible. gistration, which may be temporary, must be completed at the Group’s investments in properties, deveCommunity property Visit www.wallenstam.se/arsstamma for continually Euroclear Sweden AB no later than Wednesday, April 22, lopment properties and wind power at the end Property, which is predominantly used by tax updated information about the Annual General Meeting. 2020. Shareholders should request their nominees to of the period. funded activities and is specifically adapted for community services. ensure re-registration in good time before this date. Residential property Registration The AGM considers the matters which it must address Property, which predominantly consists of Average interest residential space. Interest expenses for the period including Shareholders who wish to participate in the AGM must be according to the Articles of Association as well as additioprofit or loss on swap agreements realized registered as shareholders in the share register maintained nal matters described in the notice convening the AGM. Market capitalization during the period in relation to interest-beaShare price multiplied by the number of by Euroclear Sweden AB no later than Wednesday, April The Board proposes that the dividend be spread over two ring liabilities. registered shares on the closing day. 22, 2020, and must also notify the company of their intenpayment dates. The record day for the first payment is proEquity/assets ratio Net operating income tion to participate in the AGM no later than Wednesday, posed to be April 30, 2020 and October 30, 2020 for the Equity in relation to total capital employed at Rental income less operating and maintenanthe end of the period. April 22, 2020, preferably before 4.00 p.m. Upon regissecond payment. If the AGM resolves in accordance with ce expenses, and property tax. tration, shareholders must provide their name (company the proposal, Euroclear Sweden AB is expected to execute Net asset value Development properties Equity with the addition of deferred tax name), civic registration number (corporate identity numthe first payment on May 6, 2020 and the second payment Refer to properties constructed with the liabilities. ber), address and telephone number as well as the name and on November 4, 2020. intention of being sold after completion. Net asset value per share civic registration number of any proxy and the number of Rental value* The Group’s net asset value in relation to the any accompanying assistants (no more than two). Rental income and the estimated market rent number of outstanding shares at the end of for vacant space. the period. Cash ﬂow per share Glossary Occupancy rate – lettable area Cash flow for the period in relation to the Let floor space in relation to total floor space. average number of shares outstanding. Changes in value, investment properties Yield requirement Renewable energy Synthetic options scheme Cash ﬂow from operating activities Gains or losses from sales of investment The yield an owner demands for an investment Energy that comes from renewable sources A share-related options programme aimed at per share properties during the period less expenses with due consideration for how risky the investsuch as wind power, hydroelectric power and employees. Synthetic options provide the holder Cash flow from operating activities for the and the assessed market value of the proment is. bio-fuels. with the right to a final settlement in cash at a period in relation to the average number of perties and gains or losses from the change given point in time based on the current share shares outstanding. in the assessed market value of investment Beta value GRI price. Commercial property properties compared to the previous reporting A statistical measurement that describes a Global Reporting Initiative, a framework for reProperty, which predominantly consists of period. See page 64. share’s risk. A beta value greater than 1.0 cording and reporting sustainability information. Swap agreement commercial space. Changes in value, New construction: The inmeans that the share’s yield changes more than GRI provides guidelines for the content of susSwaps are financial instruments that entail an crease in value is gradually recognized during Non-current net asset value (EPRA NAV) the construction of the property until the first its comparative index and the share is deemed tainability reports, how they should be prepared exchange of cash flow between two parties on Equity with reversal of deferred tax liabilities year the property is taken into operation. to have a high risk. Conversely, the share is and the disclosures that should be reported. an underlying nominal amount. An interest rate and the net effect of unrealized changes in Change in value new construction recognizes deemed to have a low risk in the case of a beta swap is an example of an agreement where an value of derivative instruments after tax and the difference between the cost of construcvalue less than 1.0. Covenant operator lending at fixed interest rates (e.g. fixed less adjusted in advance financial electricity tion of a new rental apartment and the value it A contract between a lender and a borrower for five years) may wish to swap the interest flow contracts. has on completion. Derivative instruments where the borrower guarantees to fulfil certain with another operator lending at variable rates. Change in value Other: Refers to changes A financial instrument whose value is related to key ratios, such as a given equity/assets ratio, Average number of employees in the value of investment properties, which The total number of hours worked during the an underlying asset or obligation. Used to create as a condition of the loan. Vacancy rate have been in operation for one calendar year year divided by normal annual working hours. a hedge against undesirable price trends in the Unlet floor space in relation to total floor space. or more. underlying asset. Examples of normal derivative Prime Rent P/E ratio Surrender rate instruments are futures and swap agreements. The highest basic rents in the best properties in Volatility Share price at the end of the period in relation Proportion of leases extended in relation to various areas. A measurement of how much a price of to profit after tax for the average number of the proportion of cancellable leases. Renewable energy certificates something varies over a given period. shares over the latest rolling 12-month period. The renewable energy certificate system is Standard deviation Surplus ratio Earnings per share after tax based on the provision of certificates to the A statistical measurement that describes the Heating consumption, climate-adjusted Net operating income as a percentage of Profit after tax in relation to the average producers of renewable electricity. Each MWh share’s volatility in relation to the share’s Consumption is adjusted during a normal year rental income. number of outstanding shares, in accordance (megawat hour) equals one certificate. The sale average value. with regard to temperature, wind and precipiwith IFRS. For further information, please refer to: of certificates is intended to provide producers tation. www.wallenstam.se/glossary with revenue in addition to the revenue from electricity sales. For additional clarifications, refer to *Operational key ratios, are not considered www.wallenstam.se alternative performance measures according to ESMA’s guidelines. See page 64. 31 ANNUAL GENERAL MEETING 2020/GLOSSARY KALENDARIUM CALENDAR Årsstämma Annual General Meeting 2 maj28, April 20192020 Delårsrapport Interim report II 2 maj28, April 20192020 Delårsrapport Interim report II II 17 juli July 17,2019 2020 Interim report III Delårsrapport III 22 oktober October 22,2019 2020 På wallenstam.se Information finns Wallenstam’s regarding samlad information om business Wallenstams verksamhet, operations, financial ekonomisk reporting rapportering and press releases samt can be pressmeddelanden. found at www.wallenstam.se. Wallenstam Wallenstam AB AB (publ) (publ) identity no.556072-1523 org.nr. 556072-1523 info@wallenstam.se www.wallenstam.se info@wallenstam.se www.wallenstam.se Telephone Telefon +46 031 031-20 00 0020 00 00 Gothenburg: Göteborg: SE-401 84 Gothenburg 401 84 Göteborg Visiting address Kungsportsavenyen 2 Besöksadress Kungsportsavenyen 2 Stockholm: Box 19531, SE-104 32 Stockholm Stockholm: Visiting Box adress 19531, 104 Birger Jarlsgatan 64 32 Stockholm Besöksadress Birger Jarlsgatan 64 Photo pages 1, 2–3, 24–25, 42 Karin Celander Produktion: Photo pagesNewsroom 6, 22–23, 28, 40–41 Carolin Freiholtz Illustration Photo pages sid. 8, 310, Tenjin Visual 19, 20 NMDRONES Foto sid. 5, 18, 24 Pixprovider AB Photo pages 9, 12, 14–17, 44 Dan Holmqvist Foto sid. 9, 12, 14–17, 44 överst Dan Holmqvist Photo page 31 Per Pixel Petersson Foto sid. 11, 23, 27, 34, 53, 56 Ingemar Edfalk Photo page 34 Ingemar Edfalk Foto sid. 28, 50 Karin Celander Visualization images: Foto sid. 31, 38, 40-41, 46, 48 Carolin Freiholtz pagessid. Foto 57,3261Jeanette Liljewall Hägglund Arkitekter page 59 at the top Zynka, Foto sid. 42 Fredrik Hedström bottom left Fojab, bottom right Jägnefält Milton Unattributed Foto photos/images sid. 44 nederst are Wallenstam’s John Hagby, Pictpro own. Foto sid. 64 Per Pixel Petersson Production: Övriga bilderNewsroom sid. 56-61 kommer från respektive arkitektbyrå. Translation: Ej David Murphy, nämnda foton/bilder är Word of Mouthegna. Wallenstams Repro and Tryckt printing:Algro på: omslag Tryckeri BillesDesign 240 g, inlaga Amber Graphic 130 g. Printedoch Repro on:tryck: cover Billes AmberTryckeri. Graphic 300 g, insert Amber Graphic 130 g
