COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS MAY 2020 2 Communication on Progress Nefab Communication on Progress Nefab 3 ABOUT NEFAB Table of Content Nefab is a leading global provider of customized packaging and logistics services, designed to minimize the environmental impact and total cost in ABOUT NEFAB 2 customers’ industrial supply chains. With more than 70 years of experience SUPPORT STATEMENT 4 combined with competence and presence in more than 30 countries, Nefab can offer global solutions and local service worldwide. Nefab provides solutions to SUSTAINABILITY 5 companies in industries such as Telecom, Datacom, Energy, Vehicles, Healthcare and Aerospace. VISION & MISION 6 CODE OF CONDUCT 7 Sales in 2019 amounted to 4,9 billion SEK. The owners of Nefab Group are the Nordgren/Pihl family and FAM AB. HUMAN RIGHTS 8 LABOUR 9 ENVIRONMENT 11 ANTI-CORRUPTION 12 4 Communication on Progress Nefab Communication on Progress Nefab 5 SUPPORT SUSTAINABILITY STATEMENT PRESIDENT & CEO, STAFFAN PEHRSON As markets transform to be more sustainabile it has become clear that our value proposition, to reduce environmental impact and optimize total cost with innovative packaging and logistics The UN Global Compact was launched in year 2000. Today, thousands of companies and organizations in over 160 countries participate to work towards the goal of creating a sustainable and inclusive global solutions, is more relevant than ever. economy that delivers lasting benefits to all people, communities and markets. This year marks Nefab’s tenth Communication on Progress (COP) report. Nefab became a signatory to the At Nefab working with sustainability means that we care for the United Nations Global Compact in October 2008* with the intention to strengthen our social and welfare of our employees and other stakeholders while maintaining environmental work. Since then have we taken many measures to ensure that the way we do business aligns with the UNs’ ten principles. This work will continue as we strive to lead the way towards a more balance in the economic, social and environmen­tal aspects of our sustainable future society. business. To achieve all this, we continue to work with our supply chain, our own operations and with our value proposition. A key strategic priority for us is to support our customers’ ambitions in reducing the Taking a structured approach to sustainability helps build a environmental impact throughout their supply chains. We do this in different ways, with one major approach being to analyze their supply chains and propose new packaging and logistics solutions. We also favourable business climate that attracts skills and strengthens our gear all our innovation activities towards new green materials and IoT solutions that can help our global customer base to further reduce their CO2-footprint. position in the market. Sustainability also facilitates business development by attracting customers that share a similar mindset. We are convinced that our continuous commitment to the Global Compact Initiative is beneficial for Nefab and our key stakeholders, while helping to improve the conditions for the global community at large. Our sustainability work is governed by Nefab’s vision, core values Consequently, I am pleased to confirm Nefab’s continuous support of the ten principles of the Global and code of conduct, as well as other relevant poli­cies, laws and Compact with respect to human rights, labor, environment and anti-corruption. With our tenth COP report, we express our aim to advance those principles within our sphere of influence. regulations. Stockholm, May 2020 Staffan Pehrson President & CEO, Nefab Group *Reporting Cycle Adjustment 2017 6 Communication on Progress Nefab Communication on Progress Nefab 7 VISION AND MISSION continuously challenge us to become more sustainable and CODE OF CONDUCT aligned with UN Global Compact’s ten principles, are ethical Our vision is to be the preferred global partner for develop environmentally friendly solutions for our customers At Nefab, we believe that doing business the right way is the business behavior, fair treatment of all employees and sustain­able packaging solutions and logistics optimization. across the world. only way. Our Code of Conduct outlines our way of putting colleagues, health and safety in our workplace, and a clear Our mission is to optimize total cost and reduce this approach into practice, for the benefit of our people, our sustainability focus in all we do. These cornerstones align environmental impact in supply chains with our innovative Our commitment to sustainable business customers and the world around us. with those of our global customers, as well as our owners. packaging and logistics solutions. Nefab’s sustainability efforts are directed by the executive management, with the responsibility to monitor progress and Nefab has three core values and three ways of working, and Since 2018, we’ve had an anonymous whistle-blower tool Owners drive improvements. Nefab continuously seeks improvements these elements combine to guide all of us in everything we from a third-party provider, available both internally and Nefab is co-owned by the founding family Nordgren/Pihl and related to the ten principles of the United Nations Global do. Our core values are defined as “Respect”, “Empowerment” externally. Our whistle-blowing tool offers a possibility to alert FAM (Foundation Asset Management Sweden AB), which is Compact. Nefab’s Code of Conduct is an important tool, as it and “Simplicity”, and our ways of working as “Customer First”, Nefab about suspicions of misconduct, in confidence. It is an a part of the Wallenberg sphere. The owners share a guides us to always live up to the Global Compact principles. “Cooperation” and “Communication”. In practice, this means important tool for reducing risks and maintaining trust in our long-term perspective and have the common priorities of The Code of Conduct is given to all new employees, and we that we respect the environment and those around us while operations by enabling us to detect and act on providing the financial stability and strategic endurance to work to ensure that all staff are aware and fully understand it, also putting our customers first. Through our global possible misconduct at an early stage. realize the full potential of Nefab in a transforming market. by including it in our main communication channels, such as all organization we are empowered to cooperate and employee meetings, employee surveys, and various trainings. communicate, as well as to innovate and simplify for our We strive for continuous improvements related to all areas Research and development have always been close to customers. covered by the Code of Conduct, and it is therefore Nefab’s heart and we are proud to be co-owned by FAM, mandatory for all Nefab employees to comply with it. We who use a significant part of their profits to fund research As reflected in our core values and underlined in our Code of also expect that our suppliers comply with the Code of and education. Our owners, Nordgren/Pihl and FAM, Conduct, we continuously strive to live up to our reputation Conduct, which may request higher standards than required and trusted brand. Our key cornerstones, which are directly by applicable law. 8 Communication on Progress Nefab Communication on Progress Nefab 9 REPORTING OUR PROGRESS HUMAN RIGHTS It is important for Nefab to offer good working conditions LABOUR As reflected in our Code of Conduct, employees are free to Principle 1: to all employees and we have therefore stipulated rules for form and join unions of their own choosing, to bargain Businesses should support and respect the protection of working hours, overtime and disciplinary measures. Principle 3: collectively and to engage in peaceful assembly, as well as internationally proclaimed human rights; and Businesses should uphold the freedom of association and the effective respect the right of workers to refrain from such activities. Principle 2: Progress recognition of the right to collective bargaining; Make sure that they are not complicit in human rights abuses. Respecting Human Rights is fundamental to Nefab. To ensure Principle 4: We want our employees to stay with us for a long time, but that employees are aware and understand the topic, we offer The elimination of all forms of forced and compulsory labour; all employees have the right to leave their employment as Our Code of Conduct states that the minimum level is to an e-learning course regarding Human Rights. In 2019, 68 (77 Principle 5: stated by contract or local law. Furthermore, employees are support and respect the protection of internationally in 2018) diplomas were issued throughout the year. The effective abolition of child labour; and not obliged to pay any kind of fees for their employment. proclaimed human rights and ensure that the company is Principle 6: not complicit in human rights abuses. All companies in the We made a total of 73 (137 in 2018) supplier evaluations The elimination of discrimination in respect of employment and Child labour is strictly forbidden in any stage of Nefab’s Nefab Group are expected to act responsibly and during 2019 with an approval rate of 88 %. If a supplier is occupation. operations. We have established global procurement understand human rights risks, not only in our own not approved, we open a SCAR (Supplier Corrective Action processes to evaluate new and current suppliers alike, to business, but also in the business they conduct with Request), focusing on the areas where the supplier was As a leading global provider within our industry, we want to ensure that no children work in any of the stages of Nefab’s suppliers. Our suppliers are evaluated through the Nefab not compliant. A follow up audit is then made within 3 to 6 set a good example as an employer. Engaged and committed operations. Supplier Evaluation to ensure that they are compliant with months. employees are vital for us to be a successful global company. our Code of Conduct. Nefab takes labour rights and fair employment conditions seriously, and our Code of Conduct also includes these aspects. 10 Communication on Progress Nefab Communication on Progress Nefab 11 ENVIRONMENT Progress During 2019 we have intensified our work with Straw-based Principle 7: packaging material, which is fiber-based and can be Businesses should support a precautionary approach to environrecycled as easily as a sheet of paper. Our Straw-based mental challenges; solu­tions use residue from crops, which creates opportunity Principle 8: for farmers to sell their residue. During 2019, we Undertake initiatives to promote greater environmental responmanufactured more than 100 tons of Straw board as we sibility; and continued to allocate resources to further develop Principle 9: packaging solutions made of straw material. Encourage the development and diffusion of environmentally friendly technologies. Apart from innovations around green materials, we continuously strive to invest in solutions and technologies Our greatest contribution to the environment is by that can advance sustainability. As an example, we have optimizing custom­ers’ supply chains through our continued to invest in our IoT solutions platform for innovative sustainable solutions that lower their connected packaging, which gives customers an increased environmental impact. level of transparency and efficiency in their supply chains. These solutions have been successfully used in customers’ One part of our environmental commitment is the work last mile optimization and in returnable flows, which have we do with our suppliers. We have a guideline regarding resulted in lower costs and reduced environmental restricted materials and encourage all of our suppliers footprint. to comply to our Code of Conduct. We also Nefab embraces diversity and equal opportunities for all. We Two questions in the employee survey cover “a safe place With our unique tool, Nefab GreenCalc, we can calculate and continuously implement supplier evaluations to audit are committed to building teams with a variety of to work” and “physical work conditions”. The score for these visualize the minimized environmental impact that our compliance. back-grounds, perspectives and skills. Our Code of Conduct questions was 4,2 (4,15 in 2018) and 4,14 (4,15 in 2018). solutions provide. The Green­Calc tool analyses the supports our zero-tolerance approach towards discrimination Furthermore, we ask about Nefab’s commitment towards environmental impact from the raw material, production, We strongly believe in developing environmentally of all forms. ethical and responsible business practices, the total score was logistics, use phase and end-of-life phases. friendly technologies and solutions. Driven by our global 4,32 (4,31 in 2018) out of 5. network of engineers, we continuously innovate around Nefab, as a manufacturing company, takes health and safety For Nefab’s own operations, we continuously strive to green materials to design sustainable, multi-material seriously. We offer safe and healthy workplaces, in regard to Other KPIs used in the Employee Survey relate to employee further minimize our environmental impact. We support packaging solutions for our customers. Our global both physical and phycological aspects, in accordance with satisfaction (Employee Satisfaction Index) and employee environmentally friendly initiatives and technology in our presence and customer relationships enable us to international standards and local laws. Our Code of Conduct loyalty (employee Net Promoter Score). Employee Satisfaction own business, such as actively choosing sustainable supply those solutions and logistics services at the and our Operations Directive cover this and have defined rules Index (ESI) is defined by two questions; “How satisfied are you alternatives and minimizing our waste. During 2019, we locations matching our customers’ demands. for preventing accidents and injuries, so that all employees are with Nefab as an employer?” and “How well does Nefab as an initiated implementation of ISO 14001:2004, which will provided with a safe and healthy workplace. employer meet your expectations?”. These questions together support us in advancing our environmental responsibility. give a score from 1 to 100. Nefab’s total score in 2019 was 74 We encourage employees to communicate, give feedback and (73 in 2018), which is considered a high score according to share ideas to both colleagues and management. All external benchmarks. employees should be able to do this openly without fear of discrimination, reprisal, intimidation or harassment. Employee Net Promoter Score (eNPS) is based on the following question “How likely are you to recommend Nefab Progress as an employer to others?”. Nefab’s total score in 2019 was Our employees’ opinions and feedback are important for us 4 (6 in 2018). To better understand our score, a follow-up to improve as an employer. Nefab’s annual Employee Survey question was asked depending on the employees scoring, is offered to all employees across the world. The employee which gave us additional information about their rating. The survey is anonymous and performed by a third-party provider. feedback gave us a better understanding for how to improve In 2019, 89 % (82 % in 2018) of our employees answered the lower scores as well as what we should maintain. survey. The employee survey consists of around 60 questions, measuring employee satisfaction, engagement, loyalty, and many more. Results are analyzed on different organizational levels and geographies. Based on the result, actions are taken to drive improvements when needed. 12 Communication on Progress Nefab Communication on Progress Nefab 13 ANTI-CORRUPTION Progress UNGC PRINCIPLES NEFAB CODE OF CONDUCT Audits are frequently done internally to ensure that Human Rights Human Rights Principle 10: everyone follow our Code of Conduct. We also make an 1. Businesses should support and respect the protection of We support and respect the protection of internationally proclaimed Businesses should work against corruption in all its forms, including annual risk assessment to understand and mitigate internal internationally proclaimed Human Rights human rights and ensure that the company is not complicit in human extortion and bribery. and external risk factors. 2. Businesses should make sure that they are not complicit in rights abuses. human rights abuses Nefab has a zero tolerance of corruption and support the To further strengthen our employees’ awareness and Labour Labour standards 10th principle of UN Global Conduct. This is covered by our knowledge, we offer an e-learning course about 3. Businesses should uphold the freedom of association and the Freedom of association effective recognition of the right to collective bargaining. As local or relevant laws allows, all employees are free to form or join Code of Conduct and clearly describes rules for how to anti-corruption, which 65 (72 diplomas issued in 2018) unions and have the right to collective bargaining. prevent corruption. It is mandatory that our suppliers and completed during 2019. 4. Businesses should uphold the elimination of all forms of forced Forced and compulsory labour colleagues read and comply with our Code of Conduct. and compulsory labour. No form of forced or compulsory labour is tolerated and all employees have the right to leave their employment as stated by contracts or local laws. Employees shall not be required to leave deposits of money or identity papers with their employer. 5. Businesses should uphold the effective abolition of child labour. Child labour No person shall be employed who is below the minimum legal age for employment. We are not complicit in any form of child labour or other forms of child exploitation. A child means a person below the age of 18 years. No one is employed below the completion of compulsory school or under the age of 15 and no one under the age of 18 is employed for hazardous work. Children shall not be employed for any work that is inconsistent with the child’s personal development, including health or physical, mental, spiritual, moral or social development. 6. Businesses should uphold the elimination of discrimination in Workplace respect of employment and occupation. We provide a working environment that is healthy, safe and in accordance with international standards and local laws for all employees. Appropriate health and safety information and training shall be provided to employees including, but not limited to, safe evacuations of buildings and correct handling and marking of chemicals and machinery. Discrimination Diversity among our employees is a positive attribute and no one regardless of race, color, sex, sexual orientation, nationality, parental status, marital status, pregnancy, religion, political opinion, ethnic background, social origin, social status, age, union membership or disability shall be discriminated. Harassments in the form of physical or psychological abuse are strongly prohibited, as are any kinds of intimidation or other threats. Employees with the same qualifications, experience and performance shall receive equal pay for equal work. Environment Environment 7. Businesses should support a precautionary approach to Precautionary approach environmental challenges. Sustainable development is a key concept and finite resources are avoided as often as possible. We also have a precautionary approach towards environmental challenges whereby dangerous materials are avoided when suitable and more environmentally friendly alternatives are available. 8. Businesses should undertake initiatives to promote greater Environmental responsibility environmental responsibility. We strive to improve environmental performance in our own operations and to promote environmental responsibility within our sphere of influence 9. Businesses should encourage the development and diffusion We support innovative developments in products and services that ofof environmentally friendly technologies. fer environmental and social benefits as well as greater environmental responsibility. Anti-corruption Anti-corruption 10. Businesses should work against corruption in all its forms, Nefab’s reputation of honesty, integrity and responsibility must be upheld including extortion and bribery. and any involvement in bribery, extortion or corruption is not tolerated by Nefab in any form. Nefab’s Code of Conduct further outlines our responsibility in this area. Consumer interests When dealing with consumers, we act in accordance with fair business, marketing and advertising practices. We also ensure that the goods or services we supply meet all agreed and legal standards. We optimize total cost and reduce environmental impact with innovative packaging and logistics solutions. With our global engineering and supply capabilities we serve customers in every corner of the world. N E FA B .CO M
