TOTO GROUP Integrated Report 2 020 Philosophy System for TOTO Group Management The Spirit of TOTO Unchanging for Words of Our Founder Philosophy System for TOTO Group Management Kindness must always come first. Bring the concept of service to your work. Com p Your goal should be to provide good products and Mo any ttos satisfy the customer. Accomplish that, and profit and compensation will follow. TO TO Many in this world chase after the shadow of profit. Co Gro rpo up Ph ilos rate But, in the end, they never capture the real thing. oph y A letter written by TOTO’s first president, Kazuchika Okura, to his successor, Saburo Momoki, contains words that have Ch TO arter Co T o been treasured as the Words of Our Founder. rpo O Gr f rat o In 1962, we formulated the Company Mottos based on our e B up eha vio corporate activities in the future while respecting the tradition r of TOTO’s founding. These ideas, which have been passed down since our founding, have been incorporated into the Philosophy System for TOTO Group Management so that they are appropriate for the times and can be shared within the TOTO Group. Common Group Philosophy The Common Group Philosophy represents the inherited values of TOTO that are shared among employees and will be carried forward into the future. Vision Toward a Dynamic, Vibrant and Excellent TOTO Mission Midor Long-Term Management Plan TOTO WILL2022 Mid-Term Management Plan 1 TOTO GROUP Integrated Report 2020 100 Years Company Mottos 4 3 2 1 Company Mottos 1 Take pride in your work, The Company Mottos represent the thoughts of the founder to be and strive to do your best passed down through the generations. 2 Quality and Uniformity 3 Service and Trust 4 Cooperation and TOTO Group Corporate Philosophy Prosperity Our Corporate Philosophy, based on the thoughts of the founder to be passed down through the generations, communicates to all of our stakeholders the purpose for which our company exists, our business domains, and the type of company we aim to be. TOTO Group Corporate Philosophy The TOTO Group strives to be a great company trusted by people all around the world, and contributing to the Charter of TOTO Group Corporate Behavior betterment of society. The Charter of TOTO Group Corporate Behavior stipulates the basic stance of behavior To achieve our Corporate Philosophy, TOTO will: of all people working for the TOTO Group to realize all stakeholders’ satisfaction. Create an enriched and more comfortable lifestyle and culture built on our plumbing products. Details are published on the TOTO Group website. Pursue customer satisfaction by exceeding expectations with https://jp.toto.com/en/company/profile/philosophy/group our products and services. Provide high-quality products and services through ongoing research and development. Protect the global environment by conserving finite natural resources and energy. Create an employee friendly work environment that respects the individuality of each employee. Heart Body Vision for Business Activities Our vision and mission are positioned as the course of our business activities that change in accordance with the demands of the times. A statement that refers to the future image that the management of the TOTO Group seeks to achieve based on the Common Group Philosophy. Vis ion A statement of the most important plan to implement in the Midor Long-term for sustainable growth. Mis sio n Lays out the ideal state of the TOTO Group and the system for implementing the plan. We will promote TOTO WILL2022 through the year 2022. Mid Ma or Lo nag n em g-Ter ent m Pla n TOTO GROUP Integrated Report 2020 2 P. 5 – For the Next 100 Years This section describes the present state of the TOTO Group, a company with a history cultivated over the past 100 years, and introduces the future vision of the Group as well as its values as it looks toward the next 100 years. P. 7 – Message from the President President, Representative Director Noriaki Kiyota explains the future vision of the TOTO Group and the efforts that will go into making it a reality. P. 21 – TOTO WILL2022 Mid-Term Management Plan This section explains the details, aims, and major efforts related to our mid-term management plan. P. 35 – TOTO Global Environmental Vision This section details the TOTO Global Environmental Vision, and describes how our specific corporate activities work toward realizing this greater vision. P. 53 – Corporate Governance This section illustrates the TOTO Group’s system of governance, which forms the basis for the sustainable enhancement of our corporate value, and features messages from Outside Directors. 3 TOTO GROUP Integrated Report 2020 Contents Philosophy System for TOTO Group Management 1 For the Next 100 Years Striving to Realize a Sustainable Society 5 For the Next 100 Years Message from the President 7 TOTO Group Value Creation History 13 TOTO Group Value Creation Model 15 Initiatives to Create Value for Our Customers 17 Awareness of Opportunities and Risks 19 TOTO WILL2022 Mid-Term Management Plan TOTO WILL2022 Mid-Term Management Plan 21 G  lobal Housing Equipment Business (Japan Housing Equipment Business) 23 TOTO WILL2022 Mid-Term Management Plan Global Housing Equipment Business (China & Asia Housing Equipment Business) 25 Global Housing Equipment Business (Americas & Europe Housing Equipment Business) 26 New Business Domains (Advanced Ceramics Business) 28 New Business Domains (Green Building Materials Business) 28 Cross-organizational Innovation Activities (Marketing Innovation) 29  ross-organizational Innovation Activities C (Demand Chain Innovation) 31 Cross-organizational Innovation Activities Editorial Policy (Management Resource Innovation) 33 The TOTO GROUP Integrated Report 2020 has been published as an integrated communication tool for all our stakeholders. TOTO Global Environmental Vision TOTO Global Environmental Vision This report introduces information such as the origins of the TOTO Group and business activity topics in addition to financial TOTO Global Environmental Vision 35 and environmental, social, and governance (ESG) data. In addition, Cleanliness and Comfort 37 it communicates TOTO’s corporate stance to remain committed to linking its past and present performance with its initiatives Environment 39 designed to further enhance corporate value for the future. Relationships 41 Period of Reporting Offering Satisfaction That Goes Above and Fiscal 2019 (April 1, 2019 to March 31, 2020) Beyond Customer Expectations 43 * This report includes some information pertaining to before or after the period. Together with Our Employees 45 Scope of Reporting Together with Our Suppliers 46 TOTO LTD. and Group companies For Society 47 Guidelines Dialogue with Shareholders and Other Investors 48 • International Integrated Reporting Framework, International Integrated Reporting Council (IIRC) Stakeholder Engagement 49 • Guidance for Collaborative Value Creation, Ministry of Economy, CSR Management 50 Trade and Industry Corporate Governance • Sustainability Reporting Standards, Global Reporting Initiative (GRI) Corporate Governance Reference guidelines are available on the TOTO Group website. Corporate Governance 53 https://jp.toto.com/en/company/csr/gri Messages from Outside Directors 56 Financial and Non-Financial Data Board of Directors 57 Financial and non-financial data can be found on the TOTO Group website. Financial and Non-Financial Data Financial and Non-Financial Highlights 59 https://jp.toto.com/en/company/profile/library Corporate Information 61 TOTO GROUP Integrated Report 2020 4 Striving to Realize a Sustainable Society As We Have Been, As We Will Be “Providing a healthy and civilized way of life”—This was the vision of our founder, and it has been continuously passed on to each of our employees as the TOTO Group Corporate Philosophy. This vision has lasted over a century and serves as the center of the TOTO Group’s management and the touchstone for our craftsmanship and sales activities. We will work to ensure this vision gets passed along to future generations by delivering safe and reliable TOTO-brand products and services to customers around the world. In doing so, we will “create an enriched and more comfortable lifestyle and culture built on our plumbing products.” This is a key facet of the TOTO Group Corporate Philosophy. 5 TOTO GROUP Integrated Report 2020 For the Next 100 Years Further Integrating Our Management and CSR Activities and Contributing to the SDGs The TOTO Group aims to achieve continuous business growth by providing products and services that offer value needed by society. At the same time, through its broad range of corporate social responsibility (CSR) activities, the Group will contribute to the realization of the United Nations (UN) Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs). TOTO GROUP Integrated Report 2020 6 Message from the President K e e p G a i n i n g T O T O F a n s A r o u n d t h e Wo r l d Noriaki Kiyota President, Representative Director 7 TOTO GROUP Integrated Report 2020 Leveraging the Vision of Our Founder useful reference and ones that provide no use at all. To as a Touchstone serve as our unchanging “will,” we adopted “keep gaining TOTO fans around the world” as a medium-term target. We are unable to predict every event that will occur For the Next 100 Years TOTO’s first president, Kazuchika Okura, wrote a letter in the world. However, by ensuring that our corporate to his successor, Saburo Momoki. The words contained philosophy is shared among the approximately 34,000 in that letter have been treasured by the TOTO Group employees of the TOTO Group, we aim to be a company ever since as the Words of Our Founder. These words that can not only respond swiftly to change but also express the idea that “kindness must always come first” change itself in anticipation of changes around the and state that our goal should be to provide good world. Going forward, it is imperative that we become products and satisfy the customer and, by accomplishsuch a company, and to that end we must first change ing that, profit and compensation will follow. The Words our actions more so than our awareness. of Our Founder are positioned at the center of the The keywords for doing so are “speed and chalGroup’s management and represent our unchanging lenge.” We must promptly pursue bold challenges vision. In April 2020, I became TOTO’s 17th president, without fear of failure. This approach is extremely and my duty is to ensure that this vision, which has important if we wish to continue to be a corporate been cherished by each president before me, is passed group that is needed by our customers and society down to the next generation. in this day and age. Guided by this approach, we will The world is currently dealing with the unprecedented become an organization where not only management crisis that is the COVID-19 pandemic. However, even but also employees of all Group companies have a sense before the virus began to spread, we found ourselves in of pride in the TOTO Group Corporate Philosophy a period of dramatic change and uncertainty that has and conduct themselves accordingly. We will also included frequent natural disasters, trade conflict continue to be an organization where employees between the United States and China, and the progresunderstand the contributions they made when such sion of artificial intelligence (AI), the Internet of Things conduct serves a useful purpose to our customers and (IoT), and other digital technologies. Under these to society. extremely challenging circumstances, we are faced with the fundamental question of “what is the purpose of TOTO’s existence as a company?” To answer this, we The Long-Cultivated Strengths of must once again consider various aspects, such as how the TOTO Group are we useful to people as well as the world, what value do we offer our customers and society, and what exactly is our corporate mission. For over 100 years, the TOTO Group has worked to As the TOTO Group heads into the future, the create an enriched and more comfortable lifestyle and answer to how we can be useful to people and society culture. The Group began manufacturing seated flush at large lies in the Words of Our Founder. That is, that toilets at a time in Japan when public sewage was not we must pursue our vision of delivering enriched and commonplace. In addition, approximately 50 years ago, comfortable lifestyles to customers around the world. we became the first company in Japan to manufacture The world is always undergoing change. And, if during a prefabricated bathroom module. Furthermore, we this change we ever find ourselves unsure about somecreated new lifestyles and culture with the development thing, the Words of Our Founder and our corporate of WASHLET. These efforts highlight how we have philosophy lay out everything that we need to continue provided products focused on the future that help our to value as we go forward. customers realize vibrant and enriched lifestyles and culture. It is this kind of manufacturing insight possessed by our employees that represents the greatest Areas We Should Change and strength of the TOTO Group. This strength is provided Ones That We Must Not to us not simply by our technological capabilities but also by the fact that our technologies have helped support our constant reflections on the perspective of Amid these increasingly more complex and uncertain customers, including what we can do to make customtimes, there are past experiences that can serve as a ers’ lifestyles more comfortable and exciting. TOTO GROUP Integrated Report 2020 8 Message from the President Progress under TOTO WILL2022 Key Strategies in Fiscal 2020 Looking back on fiscal 2019, the second year of the Giving consideration to the efforts we have been TOTO WILL2022 Mid-Term Management Plan, net sales steadily pursuing thus far, as well as the issues that came to ¥596.5 billion and operating profit was ¥36.8 have arose, we have adopted the following five key billion. This represented a year-on-year increase in strategies for fiscal 2020 and are undertaking initiatives sales but a decline in profit. In addition, return on in accordance with them. assets (ROA) and return on equity (ROE), which we have adopted as important management indicators, 1. Create Global Fans stood at 6.3% and 7.0%, respectively. The first strategy we have adopted is advancing efforts In the Global Housing Equipment Business (Japan), to create global fans. Since fiscal 2018 in Japan, we have despite the adverse impact from the COVID-19 pandemic, been promoting the Anshin Remodeling Strategy. This sales and profit increased for both remodeling and new strategy involves adding Anshin, the Japanese word for construction. This was the result of the rush in demand peace of mind, to remodeling as we make Companywide before the consumption tax hike as well as efforts to revitalize the renovation market. The starting the impacts of product price revisions. In the Global point of Anshin Remodeling is establishing an environHousing Equipment Business (Overseas), sales were up ment in which we offer peace of mind to customers by due largely to our aggressive sales strategies in tier 2 addressing their concerns over remodeling, be it due to and tier 3 cities in China, in addition to the solid sales of costs or lack of knowledge regarding the construction WASHLET in the United States. However, profits process. Rather than chasing profits and share declined as a result of a worsening product mix in increases over the short term, we aim to qualitatively China and a rise in SG&A expenses. Sales were down improve and invigorate the renovation market under the and a loss was recorded in New Business Domains Anshin Remodeling Strategy by taking time to build and owing to weak demand for ceramic products resulting accumulate trust with our customers. This strategy from worsening market conditions for leading-edge consists of straightforward activities, and we believe it is devices such as semiconductors and display devices. the perfect strategy for the TOTO Group to execute, as it Two years have passed since we commenced TOTO has helped drive the renovation market for over more WILL2022. During that time, there have certainly been than 30 years. As such, we will continue to pursue and areas where our response to social changes has been further evolve this strategy in fiscal 2020. delayed. However, TOTO WILL2022 is exactly that, our Due to the impact from the COVID-19 pandemic, “will” as a company. As such, we will make no change the transition to a new way of living has become a to our strategy of continuing to gain TOTO fans around necessity. To that end, the interest in pursuing remodelthe world. Although we currently face a challenging ing that realizes a more comfortable living environment situation in terms of performance, we will continue to has been on the rise as people are spending more time push forward with a broad range of activities aimed at at home. With this heightened interest, concerns over “keep gaining TOTO fans around the world.” remolding will likely start to emerge at a much greater Meanwhile, we are aware of various other issues. level. Accordingly, we will offer our customers To become a closer part of customers’ lives across the Anshin Remodeling that thoroughly resolves any of globe, we must deliver products that fuse design and their concerns. functionality with a greater sense of speed. By combinIn addition, TOTO products are not something that ing conventional analog communication with digital end simply when sold, but rather are used over a long forms of communication, we aim to extend the value period of usually 10 to 20 years. We are therefore offered by our products to an even greater number of working to enhance our after-sales services. To do so, customers. There are still many aspects in this world in addition to our products, we must form a close that we can make even more clean, comfortable, and connection with our customers and provide meticulous fun with our bathroom and kitchen plumbing products. customer support as a manufacturer. In Japan, we have already established a structure for enhanced after-sales services. Going forward, we will work to establish a similar structure overseas as we introduce products that meet the needs of people in each country and 9 TOTO GROUP Integrated Report 2020 For the Next 100 Years Creating new lifestyle value through digital innovation region. Through such a structure, we will provide promotions that we started to undertake in fiscal 2019, services on a global basis that realize a high level centered on EWATER+ electrolyzed water (containing of customer satisfaction. hypochlorous acid). To date, we have received high praise in each country for our activities to promote the 2. Strengthen Sales and Marketing Activities on concept of TOTO CLEANOVATION, which is a combinaa Global Scale tion of the words “CLEAN” and “INNOVATION” and In addition to creating an enriched lifestyle and culture represents the synergistic effects of sanitary features in the countries and regions where we operate, contribrealized through the combination of TOTO toilets and uting to the societies of these countries not as a WASHLET. The term TOTO CLEANOVATION encapsuJapanese company but as a local corporate citizen is lates our desire to enrich lifestyles through cleanliness essential to “keep gaining TOTO fans around the world.” and realize such lifestyles through our technologies and For that reason, there is a need for us to thoroughly innovations. To ensure that our products can be used analyze and understand the characteristics of each with peace of mind within new lifestyles going forward, local market. bacterial reduction, cleanliness, touchless, and In fiscal 2019, we launched a project aimed at explorcleanability are needed to a greater extent than ever ing the spray seat market in China. Through this activity, before. Leveraging the strengths of the long-cultivated we once again recognized that we must adopt an technologies of the TOTO Group, we will deliver saniapproach in China that differs greatly from our approach tary and comfortable products across the globe. in Japan. To that end, we promoted activities to visualize various aspects of our operations in China, including 3. Promote Digital Innovation how we can offer products and services that resonate The purpose of digital innovation is to provide customers with customers in China and how we can establish with unprecedented new value. To realize such innovaproduction, sales, and logistics structures for doing so. tion, we established the Digital Innovation Division in While these activities are still ongoing, we will tackle April 2020. With the aim of creating value that is unique related issues one by one starting from fiscal 2020. to the TOTO Group, the division promotes marketing In fiscal 2020, we have started a similar project activities that utilize the digital technologies of external to visualize our operations in the U.S. market, which organizations. Furthermore, the division strives to refine represents our second most important market after our curiosity, sensitivity, and creativity to maximize the China. In the United States, demand for spray seats has value we offer, focusing on business innovations that been rising each year. To instill a mindset in the United can accelerate internal reforms and external collaboraStates that “Spray seat = WASHLETTM” we will strengthen tion with universities, research institutes, and other activities to enhance brand recognition and dissemiorganizations. nate information going forward. Digital technologies are an essential element in Furthermore, we will continue to expand the sales swiftly extending the value we provide to an even TOTO GROUP Integrated Report 2020 10 Message from the President Continuing to be a company that serves a useful purpose to people around the world greater number of customers. In addition, we believe importance of business continuity plans (BCPs). Seeking we must promote reforms to business processes and to learn from this experience, we are examining to a other areas by utilizing big data. In light of this, we greater extent than ever before the frameworks for adopted “Digital Innovation” as one of our key strategies ensuring a stable supply, including platform design and primarily for the following two reasons. the maintenance of inventories on a part-number basis. The first is to enhance the speed at which we In doing so, we will work to rebuild a firm and solid supply engage in our businesses. We have thus far made great chain that can adapt to unexpected circumstances. effort to promote detailed business activities, and this The manufacturing of ceramic sanitary ware has led to a strong tendency to prefer to do everything involves the kneading of clay. In terms of this manufacinternally. The TOTO Group has traditionally achieved turing, we have traditionally boosted our productivity growth through the accumulation of analog technoloby relying on the experience of our skilled employees. gies. However, by cooperating with external organizaHowever, we have recently been gathering a great deal tions through open innovation, I am confident we will be of information regarding this manufacturing process by able to enhance the quality of our products and expand installing sensors in various locations at our production the value that we offer to our customers. To that extent, sites. With a wealth of data, we will be able to create we will accelerate improvements to our customer value various simulations that should help us prepare for the and business processes through external collaboration. manufacturing process in advance. In this way, The second reason is to learn from external organiit is extremely important that we make active use of zations. We can foster a sense of curiosity about various digital technologies in the manufacturing process. aspects by thinking beyond our internal operations Furthermore, in the “With COVID-19” and “Post and working together with external partners, and this COVID-19” world, we will be able to avoid the “three Cs” curiosity can lead to new creativity. In turn, this new (closed spaces, crowded spaces, and close-contact curiosity and creativity can help further develop our settings) at our manufacturing sites by introducing human resources. technologies such as robots and automation. We will therefore accelerate efforts to automate areas of our operations that are particularly labor intensive. 4. Rebuild a Firm and Solid Supply Chain To reinforce global supply bases that can respond to 5. Create Employee-Friendly Working demand growth in each country and region of operation, Environments and Promote New Workstyles we are working to expand our global production sites on To date, we have undertaken various workstyle reforms an ongoing basis. Also, due to the COVID-19 pandemic, including teleworking programs that support employwe have faced delays in our supply of components, which ees who are raising children or providing nursing care. has inconvenienced our customers. Taking this into However, in response to the COVID-19 pandemic, we account, we have reaffirmed our awareness regarding the have greatly expanded the scope of such programs. 11 TOTO GROUP Integrated Report 2020 Through this experience, we have received feedback Together with Our Stakeholders from employees stating that their productivity has improved by working from home. We have also received numerous comments on how if we changed We aim to remain a company that is needed by our For the Next 100 Years certain aspects of our teleworking programs it would customers as well as society at large. To that end, we help employees to further improve their productivity must become a company that provides use to people when working from home. Drawing on this experience, around the world. We must also raise our awareness we will further evolve these programs and step up regarding the importance of this issue within the “With efforts to create employee-friendly working environCOVID-19” and “Post COVID-19” world. ments that help create value and boost productivity. The world will continue to constantly undergo This in turn will help us establish a workstyle unique to change. Amid such a world, we need to look closely at TOTO that creates a virtuous cycle in which employees our customers and consider the next thing we can offer create greater value and enhance their productivity them to make their lives more enriched and comfortand, by doing so, achieve growth as an individual and able. Value systems around the globe change over time, feel empowered to take on challenges with their colas do the ways that people live their lives. Focusing on leagues toward high-value-added work. the circumstances at hand, our most important mission is to consistently propose resolutions in anticipation of the concerns our customers will have in the near future. Further Integrating CSR into Management Going forward, we will maintain a thorough awareness that the pursuit of this mission will enable us to provide good products and satisfy the customer. Based on our mission, which highlights the most Our business activities are made possible thanks to important matters to tackle in the medium to long term the support and cooperation of our various stakeholdin order to realize sustainable growth, we established ers, including not only our customers and employees the material issues of “Cleanliness and Comfort,” but also our shareholders, business partners, and local “Environment,” and “Relationships.” Moreover, in community members. accordance with these material issues, we are moving It is therefore essential that we remain a company forward with the TOTO Global Environmental Vision, that possess a high sense of ethics and can be relied which serves a specific plan for our CSR activities. This upon. This means that we listen closely to the opinions vision is positioned as the driving engine of the TOTO and concerns of our customers and promote honest WILL2022 Mid-Term Management Plan. Through the work in an honest manner. Going forward, we will promotion of this vision, we will strive to further intealways make sure to value our stakeholders as we grate CSR into our management going forward. strive to realize growth together with them. The three material issues we have established encapsulate the essence of our business activities themselves. For example, our business involves the creation of products that offer cleanliness and comfort. In addition, our business relies on the effective use of limited water resources. Further, our business would President, Representative Director not be possible without the relationships we have with people. In other words, if we wholeheartedly pursue our business activities, then we will surely be able to achieve our three material issues. By taking steps to refine various aspects of our business activities from our current position, I believe we can make genuine contributions to the SDGs. TOTO GROUP Integrated Report 2020 12 TOTO Group Value Creation History 1970s 1980s 1990s 1917 1970 1993 Established Toyo Toki Changed corporate name to Remodeling Declaration Company, Limited TOTO KIKI LTD. 1962 1977 Formulated Company Mottos Established TOTO’s first Company History overseas joint venture company for ceramic sanitary ware production, in Indonesia 1914 1980 1993 Successfully Launched Launched developed WASHLETTM SMART Japan’s first TOILET seated flush toilet NEOREST EX 1946 1981 1995 Products and Began faucet production 1976 Launched modular kitchen design Discovered photocatalytic Launched CS Series superhydrophilicity (TOTO Technology 1963 water-saving, noise1985 and the University of Tokyo) Developed Japan’s first Launched the Shampoo Dresser reducing toilet prefabricated bathroom (bathroom vanity suited for 1999 module (based on JIS washing hair) Developed provisions) CEFIONTECT 1988 technology 1968 Started mass production of Launched bathroom electrostatic chucks in the vanity units ceramics business Ratio of Sales from New Construction / Remodeling to Total Sales in the Japan Housing Equipment Business (Billion yen) Remodeling Remodeling Characteristics of Our Business Growth 600 46% 68% In Japan, we aimed to transition to a business structure that FY2001 FY2019 did not rely on new housing demand based on our forecasts for future demographic changes. To that end, we announced the Remodeling Declaration in 1993 to establish the remodeling 500 business as the core of our operations. In addition, to deliver an enriched and more comfortable lifestyle to customers Ratio of Overseas Sales to Consolidated Net Sales around the world, we established our first overseas joint Overseas Overseas venture company in 1977, which handled the production of ceramic sanitary ware. Since then, we have been actively 400 8% 23% promoting business expansion overseas. FY2001 FY2019 163 150 156 141 134 148 Business 300 134 Performance 117 122 200 100 0 1917 1960 1970 1980 1990 1993 Consolidated net sales*1 (left) Consolidated operating profit*1 (right) Remodeling Declaration 2 Number of new housing under construction* (10,000 houses) *1 Consolidated figures are listed from fiscal 1986 onward. Reliance on New Housing Demand *2 Based on the period in which products are delivered Cultural Support and Other 1985 1989 Activities Opened GALLERY · MA Founded TOTO Publishing Business Diversity 1993 Promotion Established SUNAQUA TOTO LTD. Resources to provide a comfortable work environment for people with disabilities 13 TOTO GROUP Integrated Report 2020 Since its establishment, the TOTO Group has continuously passed on the vision of its founder with the ambition to create new lifestyles through challenges and innovations. In addition, since the announcement of the Remodeling Declaration in Japan in 1993, the Group has established a business structure that does not rely on new housing demand. At the same time, the Group has been actively expanding its businesses overseas. 2000s 2010s 2002 2006 2010 2017 Entered into operational agreement Established TOTO Universal Design Announced TOTO Environmental Established new company mission between TOTO, DAIKEN, and Research Center Vision 2017 Announced TOTO WILL2022 Mid-Term YKK AP Management Plan 2007 2014 2003 Changed corporate name to Announced TOTO Global Determined new materiality New Remodeling Declaration TOTO LTD. Environmental Vision 2018 2004 2009 Remodeling “Anshin” Declaration For the Next 100 Years Established the Philosophy System Announced TOTO V-Plan 2017 for TOTO Group Management 2001 2004 2010 2013 Launched Furopia system Launched Furopia insulated Launched AIR-IN SHOWER Launched Bedside Flushable Toilet bathroom with quick-drying thermal pot MAHOBIN bathtub showerhead KARARI floor Series 2017 2011 Launched NEOREST NX globally 2002 2008 Launched WASHLETTM apricot Launched NEOREST EX Launched Restroom Item 01 with EWATER+ electrolyzed Series with built-in (Universal Design of public toilets) water (containing hypochlorous TORNADO FLUSH acid) 2009 Launched NEOREST Series/SE in Europe 2017 Launched the Faucet 10 series of water faucets, distinguished by their sophisticated 2012 designs, to the global market Launched Drake II 1G water-saving toilet in the United States * WASHLET is a trademark or registered trademark of TOTO LTD. (Billion yen) 60 50 40 30 124 128 121 1 17 1 17 119 114 103 103 98 97 96 93 89 88 92 91 84 20 77 81 10 TOTO V-Plan 2017, Cross-organizational innovation activities TOTO WILL2022 0 2000 2001 2002 2003 2004 2005 2006 2007 2008 2009 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 2016 2017 2018 2019 (FY) New Remodeling Declaration Remodeling “Anshin ” Declaration Shift toward Remodeling Business 2015 2019 Established GALLERY TOTO at Narita Established experience TOTO at International Airport Narita International Airport Opened TOTO Museum 2005 2018 Established the Kirameki Promotion Office to further women’s careers Obtained Platinum Kurumin accreditation from the Ministry of Health, Labour and Welfare as a company that supports child-rearing CSR Activities 2004 2011 2019 Established the CSR Committee Participated in the UN Global Compact Announced endorsement of the Task Force on Climate-related Financial Disclosures Social Contribution 2005 2006 2008 Established the Embarked on Established the TOTO Water TOTO Water the TOTO Acorn Environment Fund in China TOTO GROUP Integrated Report 2020 14 Environment Fund Reforestation Project TOTO Group Value Creation Model The TOTO Group conducts corporate activities with the aim of continuing to provide greater contributions to society and the environment. To achieve this goal, we are taking steps toward integrating our management and CSR activities. We are also working to create value for our stakeholders while leveraging our strengths and, as we continue to create value through our value chain, we will spread this value throughout society at large by way of our social contribution activities. “Marketing Innovation” Capital Input Three Cross“Demand organizational Chain Innovation Activities Innovation” Financial capital Optimal management resources Strength “Management 34 1 .1 billion 1 Net assets ¥ Advanced fusion of design Resource Total assets ¥583.9 billion Innovation” and functionality Global Housing Equity ratio 57.2% Equipment Business Intellectual capital New Business Domains R&D toward TOTO “Only One” technologies Mid-Term Management Plan R&D costs ¥ 21.5 billion TOTO WILL2022 Manufactured capital Details on page 21 Global expansion of production sites Number of production sites Value Chain Japan : 20 sites Overseas : 19 sites Integrating CSR into R&D Procurement–Production Human capital Management Diverse human resources sharing our corporate philosophy Strength 2 Consolidated number of employees Creating new value through 33,554 TOTO Global unique technologies Social / relationship capital Environmental Vision Relationships of trust with stakeholders cultivated through our rich history Details on page 35 Natural capital Resources with care for a EWATER+ RIMLESS TORNADO CEFIONTECT FLUSH sustainable society “Cleanliness Total energy consumption 6.7 PJ and Comfort” Amount of raw materials used Strength Advanced production 1,002,000 tons The three material issues derived “Environment” 3 technology and global supply system from our mission “Relationships” We will contribute to the SDGs through a broad range of activities centered on our three material issues. Corporate Governance Directing created value toward capital 15 TOTO GROUP Integrated Report 2020 Strength 4 Providing high-quality products and services Economic value (Fiscal 2019) Net sales ¥ 596.5 billion 36.8 billion For the Next 100 Years Ordinary profit ¥ Providing diverse Showroom Products Ordinary profit ¥ 36.1 billion information proposals Profit attributable to owners of parent ¥ 23.6 billion ROA 6.3% Quality in After-sales ROE 7.0% assembly services Major Initiatives Indicators Fiscal 2019 Results Shareholders  CEFIONTECT shipment ratio (overseas) 79% Earn trust and provide returns over the Global expansion of long term TORNADO FLUSH shipment ratio clean and comfortable 44% toilets (overseas) WASHLET shipment volume (overseas) 0.63 million units Dividend per share ¥ 90.00 Widespread adoption Reduction of water consumption during of water-saving 940 million m3 product use*1 products Total CO2 emissions from business sites 344 thousand tons Total CO2 emission reductions due to CO2 emission 24 thousand tons measures implemented reductions Total CO2 emission reductions during 3.46 million tons product use*1 Social contribution Logistics–Sales activities entrenched Number of projects contributing to solve 77 cases regional issues (total number since FY2018) in local communities Customer satisfaction from after-sales 91.3% Improved customer services (Japan) satisfaction Ratio of repairs completed within two 78.4% days of reception (overseas) Value provided to stakeholders Promotion of Volunteer activity participation rate (Fiscal 2019) employee volunteer (total number of participants / number of 100% or more activities consolidated employees = participation rate) Annual paid leave usage rate (Japan) 89.8% Customers  Become a company that is pleasant to Ratio of female managers (Japan) 1 2.3% Offer lifestyles that go beyond work at Employee turnover rate due to life events (Japan)*2 2.9% expectations *1 Reduction effect when compared with the case where products of 2005 continue to be used Details on page 43 HYDROTECT *2 Job turnover rate for employees raising children or providing nursing care but still wish to work Employees  Work lively and utilize individuality Details on page 45 Business partners  Coexist and grow together while TOTO Water Volunteer contributing to society and the Environment Fund activities environment Details on page 46 Society  Realize a sustainable society Details on page 47 TOTO TOTO Museum GALLERY • MA Strength 5 Relationships with stakeholders TOTO GROUP Integrated Report 2020 16 Initiatives to Create Value for Our Customers With the aim of creating enriched and comfortable lifestyles centered on bathroom and kitchen plumbing products, the TOTO Group creates value for its customers by improving the convenience of its products and enhancing their water-saving performance. Going forward, the Group will continue to propose products that are even more innovative and attractive as it works to increase the number of TOTO fans around the world. Providing Clean and Comfortable Living Spaces Approx. 1,200 The 1970s were a time when the demand for squatting toilets was greater than that for toilets. In the roughly 50 years since, the shipment volume for 2011 toilets has been growing significantly thanks to TOTO’s efforts to propose Launched WASHLETTM apricot toilets equipped with cutting-edge technologies and WASHLET to customers with EWATER+ electrolyzed water around the world. 2002 (containing hypoLaunched chlorous acid) NEOREST EX Series with built-in TORNADO FLUSH Trend in Shipment Volume for Toilets 1999 Developed CEFIONTECT 1993 technology The shipment volume Launched in fiscal 1970 is SMART TOILET established as 100. NEOREST EX 1980 Launched 100 WASHLETTM 1970 1980 1990 2000 2010 2019 (FY) CS Series RESTICA Series Lineup featuring the C720, S721B, Lineup featuring the CS80B, and WASHLET SII SH91BA, and WASHLET GB (price at the time: ¥85,250) (price at the time: ¥199,000) Pursuing Water-Saving Performance Water-Saving Performance of Toilets C150E As a value provider for bathroom and kitchen plumbing 20L products, we actively pursue water-saving performance. Japan Today, we offer products that only require 3.8L of water per flush. CS Series NEW CS Series 10L 13L RESTICA Series 8L NEOREST A 6L NEOREST NEOREST AH AH/RH GREEN MAX 5.5L NEOREST AH/RH/DH Overseas 4.8L 4.8L (Floor drainage) China 3.8L U.S. / China U.S. 6L U.S. / China 4.8L NEOREST GH/XH/750H 6L 1976 1988 1994 1999 2002 2006 2007 2009 2010 2012 (FY) * Water consumed per full flush 17 TOTO GROUP Integrated Report 2020 Trends in Cumulative WASHLETTM Sales June 1980 November 1987 July 1998 June 2005 January 2011 July 2015 March 2019 June 2020 Sales begin Cumulative sales exceed Cumulative sales exceed Cumulative sales exceed Cumulative sales exceed Cumulative sales exceed Cumulative sales exceed 40th anniversary 1 million units 10 million units 20 million units 30 million units 40 million units 50 million units of launch 18 years, 1 month 6 years, 11 months 5 years, 7 months 4 years, 6 months 3 years, 8 months Reaching a Total of Over 50 Million Units Shipped for WASHLETTM Launched in 1980, WASHLET has gradually become commonplace in housing facilities in Japan. Overseas, sales of WASHLET have continued to grow, and by March 2019 we had shipped over 50 million units of WASHLET around the world. For the Next 100 Years 1980 1990 2000 2010 2015 (FY) Improving Design Accelerating CLEAN SYNERGY We have been working to improve our design as part of Guided by the concept of TOTO CLEANOVATION, which comes the value we offer customers, and the results of such from the combination of the words “CLEAN” and “INNOVATION,” we efforts have received high praise. will continue to innovate technologies toward achieving “cleanliness and comfort in everyday lives.” Awards Received for NEOREST NX • iF Design Award (February 2018) TOTO’s Unique Clean Technologies • Red Dot Design Award (April 2018) EWATER+ Creating Sanitary Toilet Further acceleration Spaces That Can be Used • Gold Selection Award, going with Peace of Mind with a forward Focus on New Lifestyle Habits JIDA Design Museum Selection (January 2019) Bacterial Touchless Reduction CEFIONTECT RIMLESS / TORNADO FLUSH Cleanliness Cleanability NEOREST Series Lineup of NEOREST AH2W (price at the time: ¥412,000) Responding to Water-Saving Regulations on Toilets To address the issue of depletion of water resources, various regulations on water use are being instituted around the world, and water-saving regulations that limit the amount of water toilets can use per flush are being enacted in a large number of countries and regions. Under the Energy Policy Act in the United States, which was formulated in 1992, the maximum limit for water used per flush was set at 6L, and even stricter regulations were put in place in California and other states, where water shortages have become an issue. Furthermore, water-saving regulations on toilets are being enacted in China, as the country faces deep concerns about water shortages due to rapid population increases in urban areas. To respond to these regulations, we are contributing to the environment through our business activities by popularizing water-saving toilets that use 4.8L of water or less per flush around the globe. Flush Water Volume Regulations in Each Country and Region (As of April 2020) Canada: 6.0L or less EU: 6.0L or less United States: 6.0L or less China: 5.0L or less*1 Certain regions of the United States: 4.8L or less Saudi Arabia: 3.5L or less*2 Mexico: 6.0L or less Singapore: 4.0L or less Brazil: 6.0L or less *1 (1 large flush + 2 small flushes) / 3 Australia: 4.0L or less*3 *2 (1 large flush + 5 small flushes) / 6 *3 (1 large flush + 4 small flushes) / 5 References for regulations in each country: American National Standards Institute (ANSIE), American Society of Mechanical Engineers (ASME), Canadian Standards Association (CSA), Guobiao Standards (GB), European Standards (EN), Standards Australia (AS), etc. TOTO GROUP Integrated Report 2020 18 Awareness of Opportunities and Risks Opportunities and Risks The vision of our founder, “providing a healthy and civilized way of life,” has been inherited by each employee through the “create an enriched and more comfortable lifestyle and culture built on our plumbing products” section of the TOTO Group Corporate Philosophy. This vision is also encapsulated in “provide cleanliness and comfort for life,” which is adopted as part of our most important mediumto long-term plan, TOTO’s Mission. To realize this cleanliness and comfort, we promote product development and business activities that effectively make use of water, which is an extremely valuable resource. In addition, the depletion of water resources has become a major global issue, and we are striving to help resolve this issue through the further development and popularization of water-saving products as well as the social contribution activities of the TOTO Water Environment Fund. Based on this awareness, we are adopting the following response to (1) opportunities and risks related to sustainability and (2) opportunities and risks related to business continuity. (1) Opportunities and Risks Related to Sustainability We recognize climate change as an important issue facing society and are working from a long-term perspective to help realize a decarbonized society around the globe by 2050, based on the TOTO Global Environmental Vision. At the same time, we are actively working to disclose information on these efforts. Also, the agenda for our CSR activities, which includes long-term efforts toward climate change, is deliberated and executed by the CSR Committee, chaired by the president. In addition, these activities are monitored by the Board of Directors. (2) Opportunities and Risks Related to Business Continuity Every year, major risks that could have a significant impact on stakeholders are identified, and a general manager of the Risk Management Supervising Division is appointed for each risk in order to take preventive measures. Each major risk is mapped out on a matrix evaluating degree of impact and frequency of occurrence from the viewpoints of damage to the brand, impact on personnel, and financial consequences in accordance with an assumption scenario. These risks are monitored by the Risk Management Committee, and risk mitigation activities are promoted throughout the entire Group. Additionally, we view events occurring within the market environment and social climate that could support current or future business expansion as “opportunities,” and we work to capture these opportunities through promotion of the TOTO WILL2022 Mid-Term Management Plan as well as the TOTO Global Environmental Vision. Risk Management Promotion System The Risk Management Committee is chaired by the vice president, who serves under the president. The committee comprises the executive officers overseeing major risks and division heads as its members. In accordance with our risk management rules, the general manager of the Risk Management Supervising Division is appointed to oversee risk management and works with all divisions and Group companies through various committees and meetings to prevent risks and enhance the Group’s risk management response capabilities. Board of Directors All divisions Risk Management General Risk Various committees, Committee Management Division meetings, etc. Group companies Top Management Roles and Responsibilities Risk Management Committee Roles 1. Building and penetration of the risk management system and Responsibilities 2. Confirming and evaluating the validity of the risk Promotion of Risk Management management system 1. Discussing and determining goals and direction 3. Providing the needed management resources to of risk management achieve the above 2. Progress and follow-up on risk management 3. Risk detection and evaluation, creating a risk map and prioritizing risk 4. Improving risk awareness and knowledge 5. Promoting monitoring and audits 6. Risk Management Report to Board of Directors 19 TOTO GROUP Integrated Report 2020 Major Opportunities and Risks Factors for major Details of opportunities and risks for the The TOTO Group’s response opportunities and risks TOTO Group Risks to the continuity of business activities due to Risk large-scale earthquakes and wind and water damage • Implement risk examinations and risk simulations P.52 from abnormal weather regarding large-scale earthquakes Climate change • Respond to environmental issues by promoting the P.35 Global risks such as climate change and water and large-scale Risk TOTO Global Environmental Vision For the Next 100 Years resource depletion, which are starting to materialize earthquakes • Carry out long-term scenario analysis based on P.40 Increase in opportunities to contribute to the environthe TCFD and respond to risks and opportunities Opportunity ment by offering water-saving products in regions with identified through the analysis accordingly water shortages Inability to procure raw materials and components Risk due to large-scale earthquakes and other natural disasters • Formulate BCPs in consideration of the impact of P.31 large-scale disasters on the supply chain and bolster Raw material Risk Cost increases due to foreign exchange rate fluctuaresponse capabilities and component tions, etc. • Implement on-site inspections of major suppliers P.46 procurement Risk Accidents or bankruptcies occurring within • Strengthen global supply structure through Demand P.31 the supply chain Chain Innovation activities Expanded selection of suppliers due to the Group’s Opportunity global business expansion Relocation or stoppage of factory operations and Risk additional capital investment due to the tightening of environmental regulations Insufficiencies in response to overseas laws Risk and regulations • Reinforce structure to respond to laws and P.52 Tightening of laws, regulations, including those overseas regulations, Tightening of regulations regarding waterand energysaving features, increase in demand for highly func• Develop and launch industry-leading products P.29 and systems Opportunity tional products due to an increase in purchasing through Marketing Innovation activities support systems, etc. Increased purchasing motivation resulting from a Opportunity heightened consumer awareness toward water and energy conservation Risk Intensifying competition to recruit human resources Expansion of human capital through the recruitment P.33 Opportunity Reform human resource systems through Human resources and development of outstanding personnel Management Resource Innovation activities Increased opportunity to provide peace of mind and Opportunity fulfilling challenges through workstyle reform Occupational safety Risk Violations of labor laws Share issues and draft and promote response P.60 and health Risk Workplace accidents measures via the Health and Safety Committee Operate management systems centered on the P.52 Compliance Committee Occurrence of compliance violations, including within Implement compliance-related educational activities, P.52 Compliance Risk the supply chain, and subsequent loss of social trust including on human rights, to ensure strict adherence Carry out monitoring activities, including within the P.46 supply chain Risk Occurrence of product recalls and major complaints Improve customer satisfaction through the promoP.41 tion of “Relationships,” an important theme of the Risk Expanded application of product liability TOTO Global Environmental Vision Implementation of compliance education, including P.41 Product quality human rights issues, and rigorous adherence to Sophisticated product development and high levels compliance Opportunity of quality cultivated through rigorous quality management Promote Anshin Remodeling to offer TOTO quality, P.24 including with after-sales services Occurrence of disruptions to information systems due Risk to computer viruses, etc. Draft and promote mediumto long-term IT strateP.33 Risk Leakage of confidential and personal information gies and strengthen information security via the IT Information security Strategy Committee and IT innovation Arrival of the 5G era and progress in the semiconducOffer plumbing solutions that utilize IoT technologies P.29 Opportunity tor and optical communication industries through Marketing Innovation activities Opportunity Introduction of AI and the IoT in housing equipment Risk Foreign exchange and interest rate fluctuations Promote the TOTO WILL2022 Mid-Term P.21 Management Plan Economy Intensifying competition from rival companies and Roll out globally strategic products through Market P.33 Risk Innovation activities and fortify our financial rapid declines in product prices structure Contraction in the market for new housing due to Risk changing demographics in Japan Promote business strategies under the TOTO P.21 Risk Geopolitical risks within our global businesses WILL2022 Mid-Term Management Plan as well as cross-organizational innovation activities Risks to business continuity following the spread Risk Improve risk prevention and response capabilities P.52 Society of viruses based on the structure of the Risk Management Expansion in the remodeling market due to changing Committee as well as ensure the continuation Opportunity demographics in Japan of production and supply through an adaptive approach to risk response Increased demand for plumbing products following Opportunity global economic progress and population increases TOTO GROUP Integrated Report 2020 20 Mid-Term Management TOTO WILL2022 MID-TERM MANAGEMENT PLAN Plan TOTO WILL2022 Mid-Term Management Plan In 2017, the TOTO Group celebrated its 100th anniversary. Looking at the next 100 years, the Group aims to increase the number of TOTO fans around the world. To this end, the Group commenced its five-year TOTO WILL2022 Mid-Term Management Plan in April 2018. Under TOTO WILL2022, with corporate governance acting as our foundation, we will continue efforts to strengthen our global business promotion structure through our two business segments of Global Housing Equipment Business and New Business Domains; our three cross-organizational innovation activities of Marketing Innovation, Demand Chain Innovation, and Management Resource Innovation; and, starting in fiscal 2020, our new key strategy of “Digital Innovation,” which aims to pursue changes at a faster rate than those occurring around the world. Furthermore, we will actively carry out investments aimed at achieving sustainable growth while promoting well-balanced financial strategies that give consideration to shareholder returns. Our Vision Keep Gaining TOTO Fans Around the World Make Japan the world’s showroom Adapt our systems from production to marketing in each country and region Pursuit of customer satisfaction Products Services Fuse design with functionality and deliver clean and Place importance on connections between people around the world comfortable living spaces and remain a trusted company Digital Innovation Create unique TOTO value and innovate business processes using digital technologies Promotion Structure TOTO WILL 2022 bus Ad Gre t bu hou erica ines sine busvanced bus en buil Mid-Term s ss sing s a Management Ch equ nd E Plan hou an hou ina a ines Ce ines ding ent urop ipm sing nd s s ram mat sing equ equ As bus e eria ipm ipm ia ines ics Jap ent en Am s ls Global housing New business equipment business domains tal Vision TOTO Global Environmen Marketing innovation Demand chain innovation Management resources innovation Digital innovation Corporate governance 21 TOTO GROUP Integrated Report 2020 Looking toward the next 100 years, we are promoting our five-year TOTO WILL2022 Mid-Term Management Plan in order to achieve our “will” of continuing to gain TOTO fans around the world. We aim to increase our corporate value through our two business segments of Global Housing Equipment Business and New Business Domains, as well as our three cross-organizational innovation activities, which are pursued on a Companywide, crossdepartmental basis from the perspective of optimization. Review of Fiscal 2019 and Forecasts for Fiscal 2020 In fiscal 2019, the second year of TOTO WILL2022, net sales came to ¥596.5 billion, an increase of ¥10.4 billion year on year, while operating profit totaled ¥36.8 billion, down ¥3.4 billion. In addition, ordinary profit stood at ¥36.1 billion, a decrease of ¥7.0 billion, and profit attributable to owners of parent was ¥23.6 billion, down ¥8.8 billion. Also, the Company has adopted return on assets (ROA) and return on equity (ROE) as important management indicators. In the fiscal year under review, ROA came to 6.3%, a decline of 0.8 percentage point, and ROE stood at 7.0%, a decrease of 2.6 percentage points. In the Global Housing Equipment Business (Japan), despite the adverse impact from the COVID-19 pandemic, sales and profit increased for both remodeling and new construction, due to rush in demand before the consumption tax hike as well as the impacts of the introduction of new products and initiatives. In the Global Housing Equipment TOTO WILL2022 Mid-Term Management Plan Business (Overseas), sales were up due mainly to our aggressive sales strategies in tier 2 and tier 3 cities in China as well as the solid performance of WASHLET in the United States. However, profits declined as a result of a worsening product mix in China and an increase in SG&A expenses. Sales were down and a loss was recorded in New Business Domains due to a decline in demand for ceramic products resulting from worsening market conditions for leadingedge devices such as semiconductors and display devices. As for key measures in fiscal 2020, while taking into account the new commonsense that will emerge after the COVID-19 pandemic has been contained, in Japan we will strive to propose new ways of living and push forward with our Anshin Remodeling Strategy. Overseas, we will continue to pursue structural reforms to visualize the markets in each region and accelerate growth. Furthermore, we will move forward with our new Digital Innovation strategy, which aims to pursue changes at a faster rate than those occurring around the world. Fiscal 2019 Results (Billion yen) Fiscal 2018 Fiscal 2019 Net Sales 586.1 596.5 40.2 36.8 Operating Profit (Operating Margin) (6.9%) (6.2%) Ordinary Profit 43.1 36.1 Profit Attributable to Owners of Parent 32.4 23.6 ROA 7.1% 6.3% ROE 9.6% 7.0% TOTO GROUP Integrated Report 2020 22 Mid-Term Management Plan TOTO WILL2022 Global Housing Equipment Business Japan Housing Equipment Business We will further promote our remodeling strategy that does not rely on new housing demand. In addition, in the public market, we will work to communicate Japanese toilet culture, which the TOTO Group has helped create, with the aspiration of turning Japan into a showroom for the rest of the world. TOTO Group Strategy  In Japan, the remodeling business currently accounts for 70% of total sales in the Japan Housing Equipment Business, and we have succeeded in establishing a management model that does not rely on new housing demand. As each remodeling project entails different on-site conditions and customer needs, the remodeling business requires multiple abilities in areas such as construction expertise, planning, and customer communication. To this end, we have cultivated the product appeal and abilities required for performing remodeling work and have rolled out showrooms across Japan. At the same time, we have made swift efforts to establish a network with home improvement stores that have deep ties to local communities. In 2002, we formed the TDY alliance together with DAIKEN and YKK AP, both top-class manufacturers of key housing materials, in order to further accelerate the growth of our remodeling business. To make proposals for bathroom and kitchen spaces made possible through the high-quality products of each alliance member, all three companies in the TDY alliance made cooperative efforts to open TDY Collaboration Rooms, organize Remodeling Fairs, and undertake other activities with the aim of realizing sustainable growth. Review of Fiscal 2019 and Forecasts for Fiscal 2020  Fiscal 2019 saw increases in both net sales and operating profit as net sales increased ¥11.0 billion from the previous fiscal year, to ¥436.1 billion, and operating profit rose ¥0.9 billion, to ¥25.3 billion. These gains were the result of increased sales and profits from remodeling and new construction owing in part to the rush in demand before the consumption tax hike and the impacts of the introduction of new products and initiatives, which offset the negative impact from the COVID-19 pandemic. In light of these results, we will promote the following key measures in fiscal 2020. In the housing market, amid expectations for a decline in new home construction with the continuing transition toward a stock-based society, the remodeling business has become more important Housing than ever. In light of such market changes, we will continue to build on our Anshin Remodeling Market Strategy in the remodeling business in an effort to revitalize the market. Under the Anshin Remodeling Strategy, we will work to spur remodeling demand by turning customers’ concerns over remodeling projects into Anshin, the Japanese word for peace of mind. By earnestly addressing their needs and concerns, we will pursue efforts to enrich the lifestyles of our customers by becoming a closer part of their lives through superior remodeling in collaboration with our business partners. In these ways, we will aim for the revitalization and qualitative improvement of the renovation market by building up genuine trust with our customers over the next five to 10 years. Since announcing the Anshin Remodeling Strategy in April 2018, we have been working to promote the spirit of this strategy across the Group. We believe that people’s way of thinking about housing will change after the COVID-19 pandemic has been contained. Accordingly, we will continue to enhance our business activities by focusing on our three goals of “making proposals that cater to individual customers,” “delivering Anshin through information,” and “providing high-quality remodeling.” 23 TOTO GROUP Integrated Report 2020 In the new housing market, drawing on the certain level of success we have had with ascertaining the needs of each of our business partners, we will continue to pursue efforts to ensure that our business partners choose our services by strengthening attractive products that meet their needs and by enhancing our proposal capabilities. Overview of Anshin Remodeling Realizing remodeling that fulfills customers’ dreams Becoming a closer part of customers’ lives Anshin to consult about anything regarding remodeling Making proposals that cater to individual customers Anshin to receive the Anshin that realizes information customers wish remodeling that satisfies to know about remodeling A Word from a customers TOTO WILL2022 Mid-Term Management Plan Customer Delivering Anshin through Providing high-quality information remodeling TOTO is a true remodeling professional that listens to the opinions of customers and strives to become a close part of their lives in order to realize the remodeling of their dreams. Remodeling “Anshin” Declaration TOTO’s Anshin Remodeling Remodeling Library TOTO Remodeling Club Shops Visualize and understand Visualize and understand examples and appropriate prices shops recommended by TOTO for remodeling Examples of actual cases include Pro shops that customers can rely price information on with peace of mind 2018 2003 Remodeling “Anshin” Showroom Support Desk for Remodeling 1993 New Remodeling Declaration Remodeling Declaration Visualize and understand Declaration Visualize and understand our response to customers’ life after remodeling Exceeding questions and concerns Bringing more Anshin to customers’ remodeling Consultation desk Turning customers’ expectations Attractive showrooms problems into joy for remodeling In the public market, we are promoting optimized proposal activities that cater to the way our Public products will be used in each building. By doing so, the number of our proposals that have been adopted is steadily increasing. Remodeling is an area in which we can create demand, and we will Market engage in activities to continue to expand demand, making use of remodeling as our growth engine. As a key initiative going forward, Japan we will strengthen efforts to further create Net sales Operating profit Operating margin demand and enhance designated activities by (Billion yen) （%） capitalizing on opportunities to make propos500 436.1 25 425.1 als focused on the keyword “non-contact.” 400 20 300 15 200 10 6 6 100 5 24.4 25.3 0 2018 2019 (FY) 0 TOTO GROUP Integrated Report 2020 24 Mid-Term Management Plan TOTO WILL2022 Global Housing Equipment Business China & Asia Housing Equipment Business In China, by responding to market changes and actively making proposals, we are aiming to become the most trusted brand that our customers continue to need and want. Our operations in the rest of Asia will help drive growth in the overall Global Housing Equipment Business, which in turn acts as an engine for the growth of the TOTO Group. In the high-end markets of each country and region, we aim to become the most trusted and beloved brand. TOTO Group Strategy In China, we have continued to achieve steady growth due to the rising average income of Chinese citizens. Meanwhile, greater emphasis is being placed on appropriate marketing strategies that address the changing market conditions such as intensifying competition and diversifying customer needs. In the China Housing Equipment Business, we are working to ascertain changes in the market environment and consumer purchasing behavior as we leverage the strengths of TOTO as a high-end brand to promote our business activities focused not only on tier 1 cities but also tier 2 and tier 3 cities. In various other countries and regions in Asia, including Taiwan, Vietnam, India, and Thailand, the TOTO brand continues to gain recognition as a result of rising income levels and the proliferation of sewage systems. In accordance with the market growth in each country and region, we will strive to increase orders received for projects at high-end facilities such as five-star hotels and luxury condominiums. To that end, we are working to popularize WASHLET by strengthening our sales network and actively rolling out promotions. We are also taking steps to establish a structure for after-sales services. At the same time, we are building production plants to establish them as a global supply base that can respond to increased demand in the future. Review of Fiscal 2019 and Forecasts for Fiscal 2020 In fiscal 2019, net sales in the China & Asia Housing Equipment Business increased ¥3.5 billion year on year, to ¥67.0 billion, while operating profit declined ¥2.2 billion, to ¥10.2 billion. While we China realized a recovery in net sales by stepping up efforts toward tier 2 and tier 3 cities, operating profit was down due to the impact of such factors as stagnating market condition in tier 1 cities, the worsening of our product mix, and fluctuations in exchange rates. Also, in fiscal 2019 we comprehensively reviewed our overall business operations and launched a new project aimed at going beyond our conventional activities to identify issues from new perspectives. We will position fiscal 2020 as a year in which we establish a base for realizing further growth. To that extent, we will push forward with activities geared toward innovation. Throughout all of our business activities, we will organically integrate customer perspectives in an effort to fortify our overall business foundation in China. We will also make efforts toward product planning and promotions. In addition, for logistics, we will draw on our robust customer relationships cultivated through our BtoB operations, to promote activities focused on customer satisfaction. Furthermore, in terms of the supply chain, China we will adopt a fundamental approach of local Net sales Operating profit Operating margin production for local consumption but also (Million yuan) (%) regularly review this approach to ensure we will 5,000 30 4,234 be able to respond flexibly to changing market 3,782 4,000 21 24 conditions and various risks. Through such efforts, we will integrate our manufacturing and 3,000 16 18 sales operations and strive to restore profits as 2,000 12 we work to increase the number of TOTO fans 801 697 going forward. 1,000 6 0 2018 2019 (FY) 0 25 TOTO GROUP Integrated Report 2020 For Asia, fiscal 2019 saw net sales increase ¥0.8 billion year on year, to ¥32.6 billion, and operating profit decrease ¥0.1 billion, to ¥5.4 billion. In Taiwan, both net sales and operating profit increased Asia as the result of a recovery in new housing demand and steady sales of WASHLET. In Vietnam as well, both net sales and operating profit rose due to the positive impact from the introduction of new products and an increase in exports. Based on these results, we will implement the following key measures in fiscal 2020. In the Asia Housing Equipment Business, in order to fulfill our role as TOTO’s growth engine, we will aim to solidify our position as a high-end brand. Accordingly, we will strive to strengthen contact points with customers and thoroughly promote the attractiveness of our products, centered on WASHLET. In Taiwan, we will step up our approach based on WASHLET with the aim of capturing latent demand. In Vietnam, we will further establish showrooms as robust customer contact points and seek to improve sales of WASHLET in the retail market in order to spur demand for WASHLET and promote its added value. Additionally, throughout the entire Asian market, we will continue to promote the construction of new plants to cater to the anticipated growth in global demand TOTO WILL2022 Mid-Term Management Plan going forward. Taiwan Vietnam Net sales Operating profit Operating margin Net sales Operating profit Operating margin (Million Taiwan dollar) (%) (Billion dong) (%) 5,000 23 23 25 5,000 25 4,256 3,700 3,671 4,000 3,438 20 4,000 20 14 15 3,000 15 3,000 15 2,000 10 2,000 10 797 848 1,000 5 1,000 523 655 5 0 2018 2019 (FY) 0 0 2018 2019 (FY) 0 Americas & Europe Housing Equipment Business The bathroom culture of Europe has a significant impact on the rest of the world, and we will therefore further promote the Americas & Europe Housing Equipment Business. In addition, we aim to become a company that can bring about change to the bathroom culture in the Americas and Europe, thereby increasing the number of TOTO fans around the world. TOTO Group Strategy  In the Americas and Europe, our unique technologies have received high praise from customers. These technologies include water-saving toilets, which use only one gallon (3.8L) per flush, as well as CEFIONTECT, RIMLESS, and TORNADO FLUSH, which enhance these toilets. In the Americas & Europe Housing Equipment Business, we are enhancing our brand value and working to achieve differentiation through efforts to communicate the superior quality and value of our products. Also, for WASHLET, we are enhancing our showroom exhibits and stepping up efforts to establish new sales routes through e-commerce. TOTO GROUP Integrated Report 2020 26 Mid-Term Management Plan TOTO WILL2022 Global Housing Equipment Business Review of Fiscal 2019 and Forecasts for Fiscal 2020 In the Americas in fiscal 2019, net sales were up ¥1.2 billion year on year, to ¥32.5 billion, while operating profit decreased ¥1.0 billion, to ¥0.6 billion. Although sales increased due to the sales The growth of WASHLET, productivity worsened and SG&A expenses rose, leading to a decline in Americas profits. In light of these results, we will implement the following key measures in fiscal 2020. For the Americas Housing Equipment Business, we will look to achieve greater recognition of the TOTO brand and WASHLET by expanding our contact points with customers. In fiscal 2019, sales of WASHLET significantly increased thanks to the contributions from efforts to cultivate new sales channels through e-commerce and other means. In fiscal 2020, we will further enhance our product displays at stores and other locations and draw on WASHLET as a catalyst for implementing business activities on a full scale. We will also continue to disseminate information that strongly communicates the concept that “Spray seat* = WASHLETTM” Also, in light of the major sales growth for WASHLET, establishing and enhancing a structure for after-sales services has become an urgent issue. To that end, we will strive for The Americas these services under which we will prepare a Net sales Operating profit Operating margin structure to shorten the time required for (Million dollar) (%) repair work and offer services that realize a 400 20 high level of customer satisfaction. In our 284 298 manufacturing departments, we will promote 300 15 stable production and build a more effective 9 supply structure as we aim to achieve busi200 10 ness activities that integrate production and 4 sales operations. 100 5 24 13 * “Spray seat” is a generic name for an ordinary toilet seat equipped with a warm water-washing function. 0 2018 2019 (FY) 0 In Europe, fiscal 2019 saw net sales of ¥3.8 billion, a decrease of ¥0.1 billion year on year, and operating loss of ¥1.0 billion, an improvement of ¥0.2 billion. Given these results, we will take the Europe following key measures for fiscal 2020. In Germany, we will strengthen our partnership with plumbers, who propose our products to customers, and draw on our showrooms at stores and other locations to heighten awareness of the cleanliness and comfort of WASHLET in order to solidify the presence of the TOTO brand in the country. Up to fiscal 2019, we successfully implemented work training seminars for plumbers at approximately 600 stores across Germany. While our efforts to strengthen partnerships in fiscal 2019 were centered on the southern region of Germany, we will expand on this in fiscal 2020 by focusing on the entire country. Going forward, we will have these plumbers conduct remodeling events for customers at our showrooms and engage in activities that aim to enhance the sales potential of WASHLET at each of our stores. Europe In the United Kingdom and France, we Net sales Operating loss will continue to promote the adoption of our (Million euro) products at high-end hotels and other top-class 40 facilities toward our goal of establishing TOTO 28 30 26 as a high-end brand. We will also strengthen our distribution of information on previous 20 adoption examples and customer opinions to 10 provide more opportunities to experience our products in pursuit of our next adoption. 0 –7 –6 −10 2018 2019 (FY) 27 TOTO GROUP Integrated Report 2020 New Business Domains Advanced Ceramics Business TOTO will roll out its high-quality, high-precision advanced ceramics, including air bearings, electrostatic chucks, bonding capillaries, and receptacles, for the semiconductor, FPD manufacturing, and optical communication industries. By further leveraging these unique technologies, we will create value together with our customers and suppliers. Electrostatic chucks Review of Fiscal 2019 and Forecasts for Fiscal 2020  In fiscal 2019, the Advanced Ceramics Business recorded net sales of ¥16.7 billion, a decrease of ¥5.5 billion year on year, and operating loss of ¥0.1 billion, a turnaround of ¥1.4 billion compared with operating profit of ¥1.3 billion in the previous fiscal year. Demand for leading-edge devices such as semiconductors and display devices declined, and sales of our advanced ceramic products, which are adopted in these devices, decreased in turn. However, expansion in the advanced ceramic products market is expected to continue over the medium to long term due to the increase in teleworking and online service use as well as the widespread adoption of 5G. TOTO WILL2022 Mid-Term Management Plan In the Advanced Ceramics Business, we are focusing on responding to increased production and reinforcing our development structure to meet the robust demand for semiconductors. To that extent, we have established a production facility on the premises of TOTO Fine Ceramics LTD.’s Nakatsu Plant, which is slated to begin operations in October 2020. We will turn this facility into a next-generation smart factory Advanced Ceramics Business that adds cutting-edge IoT and AI technologies to our longNet sales Operating profit (loss) Operating margin cultivated production technologies and know-how. In addition, (Billion yen) (%) we will further accelerate measures to shorten lead times and 25 22.2 25 enhance quality, thereby establishing a solid manufacturing 20 16.7 20 foundation. The evolution of semiconductors has been remarkable, and our customers now have much higher expectations 15 15 toward the quality and performance of our advanced ceramic 10 6 10 products. Drawing on our unique advanced ceramic technologies 5 5 1.3 0 and advanced development capabilities, we will continue to 0 –0.1 0 create new products that answer the needs of our customers. −5 2018 2019 (FY) −5 Green Building Materials Business TOTO will offer building materials utilizing its HYDROTECT environmental cleaning technology. TOTO will also enter into license agreements with companies worldwide handling exterior building materials, including tile, paint, metal panels, glass, and architectural stone. Ceramic tiles that utilize HYDROTECT—Hydrocera Wall Review of Fiscal 2019 and Forecasts for Fiscal 2020  Fiscal 2019 saw net sales of ¥7.5 billion, a decrease of ¥0.5 billion Green Building Materials Business from the previous fiscal year, and operating loss of ¥0.4 billion, a Net sales Operating loss worsening of ¥0.1 billion. (Billion yen) In the Green Building Materials Business, we aim to contrib9 8.1 7.5 ute to the global environment by continuing to provide products that help create more comfortable lifestyles and cultures. To that 6 end, we will enhance the efficiency of our operations by bolstering the selection and concentration of products. We will continue 3 to focus on providing and proposing value for products that leverage the strengths of our HYDROTECT technology. 0 –0.3 –0.4 −1 2018 2019 (FY) TOTO GROUP Integrated Report 2020 28 Cross-organizational Innovation Activities Marketing Innovation Accurately Grasping Global Customer Needs to Pursue the Products They Truly Want and Deliver New Lifestyle Value functionality that customers need is crucial to this strategy’s success. The second is to evolve our water faucet products. Water faucet parts are a major market in which we still have room to grow overseas. We work to enhance our water faucet product lineup each year, and the number of water faucet products adopted at famous overseas hotels has been growing, as has sales of these products in China. In particular, we aim to promote product strategies for bathroom and shower faucets going Satoshi Shirakawa forward. The third is to enhance the appeal of comfortable Representative Director, spaces realized by our products. Overseas, there is an Executive Vice President emphasis on the idea of the “bathroom,” which includes bathtubs, sinks, and toilets all together. In light of this, we will step up proposals so that our products are adopted not on an individual basis but rather as a living space. Strengthening Regional Marketing Activities The global market environment is constantly changing. Promoting Digital Innovation As well, viewpoints and ways of thinking about various matters We will actively utilize external insight and digital technolodiffer by country and region, and so it is crucial that we gies through open innovation to not only innovate our strengthen regional marketing activities that cater to local business processes but also create new value. characteristics. In fiscal 2019, we launched a project to investiSpecifically, we will first promote the digitalization of gate the actual conditions in the Chinese market and worked to our existing products. By leveraging AI and IoT and arrangascertain changes in customer needs and the competitive ing these technologies to fit our existing products (smart environment. By doing so, we were able to visualize various link), we will deliver new value to our customers. aspects pertaining to our regional operations. In fiscal 2020, we Furthermore, in the public market, there are various digital will strive to resolve the issues discovered through these efforts. innovations that are already in progress. Taking into Furthermore, in fiscal 2020 we will commence a project to account such innovations, we will propose a new vision for help visualize conditions in the U.S. market. We will also our products and services within the public market. further reinforce activities to boost recognition of the TOTO brand to establish a mindset that “Spray seat = WASHLETTM” Enhancing Efforts to Communicate Our Value in the United States, where demand for spray sets is rising As global awareness toward sanitation rises due to the each year. As we move forward, we will strive to accurately COVID-19 pandemic, we will continue to enhance efforts grasp information on each market to swiftly promote the to promote the outstanding qualities of TOTO’s unique introduction of products that meet the needs of our target clean technologies. Adopting the slogan of TOTO customer groups. CLEANOVATION, which combines the words “clean” and “innovation,” we have been engaging in promotional Evolving Design and Functionality activities centered on EWATER+ electrolyzed water (conWe will further accelerate the enhancement of design taining hypochlorous acid) since fiscal 2019. Going foroptions and the advancement of our technologies. I believe ward, we will enhance efforts to once again communicate we have enjoyed steady progress in terms of evolving our the value of not only EWATER+ but also our many other design. We have garnered high praise for our design at clean technologies that offer touchless and cleanability exhibitions around the globe and have received the interfeatures and adopt a clean design. nationally renowned iF Design Award for the seventh consecutive year and the Red Dot Design Award for the The needs of our customers are diverse and constantly eighth. In these ways, our efforts to evolve design have changing. Gaining a firm grasp on these needs is a stated been producing solid results. goal of the Words of Our Founder, “capture the real thing.” We will promote three key strategies to continue to Without losing sight of this goal, we will always consider evolve our design and functionality going forward. The first the people who use our products with the aim of realizing is further melding the advanced functionality with the beauty ease of use for everyone and roll out appropriate marketing of the overall sculpted shape of our NEOREST Series promotions. I believe this represents the No. 1 task of our toilets and WASHLET. Realizing the kind of design and Marketing Innovation activities. 29 TOTO GROUP Integrated Report 2020 SMART TOILET NEOREST DH Lavatory faucet (single lever) GF series Wash basin TA (vessel type) WASHLET Instant-Type (for overseas markets) TOTO WILL2022 Mid-Term Management Plan FLOTATION TUB WASHLET RW WASHLET SW SP Wall-Hung Toilet + WASHLET SX (Free standing bathtub) Lavatory faucet (single lever) GB series PI C K U P 2 0 1 9 In its product development, TOTO has consistently pursued the evolution of design and functionality. We have made particularly steady progress with the evolution of our design, which has received extremely high praise at exhibitions and other events around the world. In fiscal 2019, we continued to produce solid results through our efforts toward the evolution of design and functionality, winning the internationally renowned iF Design Award for the seventh year in a row and the Red Dot Design Award for the eighth. Received iF Design Award 2020 for the WASHLET RW/SW and the SP Wall-Hung Toilet + WASHLET SX for Overseas Markets TOTO received the internationally renowned iF Design Award 2020 for the WASHLET RW/SW and the SP Wall-Hung Toilet + WASHLET SX, marking the seventh consecutive year that the Company has won this award. The iF Design Award is a design competition that started in 1953. The iF Design Award is sponsored by iF International Forum Design GmbH, which is based in Hanover, Germany, and is given to products that have had their design rigorously judged by design professionals from the perspectives of beauty, functionality, and innovation. At the 2020 awards, a panel of judges comprising well-known experts evaluated over 7,298 submissions from 56 countries and regions around the world. Among these submissions, TOTO’s WASHLET RW/SW and the SP Wall-Hung Toilet + WASHLET SX received a high level of praise. The WASHLET RW/SW models, which received this year’s award, are equipped with a broad range of features while realizing a thin, smooth, and elegant design. To realize such a design, TOTO tailored the internal structure of the two WASHLET models down to the 0.1mm level. The SP Wall-Hung Toilet is a highly sanitary product equipped with the WASHLET SX, yet hides any hoses and cords in the rear of its structure, making for a simple design that minimizes rims and spaces between the toilet and the seat and blends naturally into a bathroom space. Received Red Dot Design Award 2020 for Six Products, Including the SMART TOILET NEOREST DH and the Wash Basin TA (Vessel Type) TOTO received the internationally proclaimed Red Dot Design Award 2020 for a total of six products, including the SMART TOILET NEOREST DH and the Wash basin TA (vessel type). This marked the eight year in a row that the Company won this award. The Red Dot Design Award is a design award that dates back to 1955. Organized by Design-Zentrum NordrheinWestfalen e.V., based in Essen, Germany, the award is given to products that design experts have positively evaluated based on a strict criteria, including innovation, functionality, and quality. The award consists of three prize categories: Product design, brand & communication design, and design concept. TOTO won awards in the product design category for six of its products. TOTO GROUP Integrated Report 2020 30 Cross-organizational Innovation Activities Demand Chain Innovation Aiming to enhance our value-added productivity by rebuilding a firm and solid supply chain, strengthening our BCP response, and transitioning to smart factories. information provision to sales divisions. To address these insufficiencies, we will create an information website that allows our sales divisions to gain an understanding on how our production divisions are being impacted by pandemics and natural disasters. In this manner, we will work to rebuild our global supply structure. Furthermore, our most important task in fiscal 2020 is to build a structure that will thoroughly ensure our business continuity not only in response to the COVID-19 pandemic but even in the event Takayuki Shimizu that any other unexpected emergency occurs. Director, Managing Executive Officer Manufacturing Innovation In manufacturing innovation, we are promoting the shift to smart factories. This shift involves the promotion of automation using AI, IoT, and remote operation, as well as Demand Chain Innovation involves activities aimed at the thorough reduction of waste, with the aim of ensuring optimizing the flow of products, services, and information continuous factory operation even under various conand establishing a structure that delivers attractive prodstraints and restrictions. We believe the shift to smart ucts in an efficient manner to customers around the world. factories will lead to “value-added productivity,” an indicaDemand Chain Innovation focuses on two main activities: tor that divides value-added production output by labor Supply chain innovation and manufacturing innovation. costs. We will increase the value of this indicator by promoting this shift to smart factories and by resolving the Supply Chain Innovation individual issues facing each business. Furthermore, as a The role of supply chain innovation is to ensure we can new effort, we will strive to improve quality and stabilize efficiently deliver the products customers need, when and production through the use of big data analysis. Reaching where they need it. our targets for value-added productivity and quality In fiscal 2019, raw material procurement at our enhancement is a key issue for us to tackle in fiscal 2020. production sites and from suppliers was disrupted due to the COVID-19 pandemic. This led to the stoppage of orders Going forward, we will pursue Demand Chain Innovation received and delays in deliveries, among other issues that through an approach that balances supply chain innovagreatly inconvenienced our customers. Reflecting on this, tion and manufacturing innovation activities. By coming we realized that our BCP efforts toward supply chain risks together on a Groupwide basis, we will rebuild a firm and such as the COVID-19 pandemic, which is occurring solid supply chain that meets customer expectations and simultaneously around the world, have been insufficient, realize a shift to smart factories that also ensures our and issues pertaining to our global production and supply business continuity. structure have become apparent. While we obviously have been taking steps to strengthen our BCP response, these steps have not been enough. To strengthen this response, we need to primarily focus on purchasing from multiple suppliers, extending production activities to multiple locations, and securing inventories. We also need to build a structure that can respond to situations such as governmentordered shutdowns, which have occurred recently in countries and regions across the globe. We now realize we should have been pursuing such efforts with a greater sense of speed, and will therefore work to accelerate these efforts in fiscal 2020. Also, we now understand there are certain areas where we are lacking in terms of our 31 TOTO GROUP Integrated Report 2020 The No. 2 Plant (provisional name) The No. 2 Plant (provisional name) of TOTO (FUJIAN) CO., LTD. The No. 4 Plant (provisional name) of TOTO VIETNAM CO., LTD. * Exterior rendering * Exterior rendering PI C K U P 2 0 1 9 To establish a production structure focused on future demand increases, we are building new, cutting-edge factories and closing certain production sites with the aim of improving productivity. Going forward, we will create a new global production structure by taking steps to transfer the operations at production sites in Japan, which TOTO WILL2022 Mid-Term Management Plan have served as our mother factories, to production sites overseas. Terminating Sanitary Ware Production at BEIJING TOTO to Optimize Our Supply Structure in China and Greater Asia On September 30, 2019, BEIJING TOTO CO., LTD. terminated the production of sanitary ware at its plant located in Beijing. Established in 1994, this plant was the TOTO Group’s first sanitary ware production plant in China. After establishing this plant, the Group founded BEIJING TOTO CO., LTD. in 1995, TOTO EASTCHINA CO., LTD. in 2001, and TOTO (FUJIAN) CO., LTD. in 2011, thereby gradually expanding its production capacity for sanitary ware in China. After being impacted by various changing circumstances, we examined approaches to optimize our global supply structure at production plants in China other than BEIJING TOTO’s plant as well as in countries bordering China, such as Vietnam and Thailand. As a result of these examinations, we confirmed that we can sufficiently ensure a steady supply of sanitary ware in the vigorous Chinese market going forward without engaging in production at the Beijing Plant, and therefore came to the decision to terminate its operations. Building the No. 2 Plant of TOTO (FUJIAN) to Respond to Future Demand Growth in the Chinese Market TOTO (FUJIAN) CO., LTD. is currently building its No. 2 Plant (provisional name), which will serve as a new sanitary ware production site. This new plant is being constructed with the aim of responding to demand for sanitary ware in the Chinese market, which is expected to grow going forward. The plant will strive to achieve a high level of productivity through the introduction of highly efficient furnaces and the latest automated production equipment, among other technologies. Furthermore, in accordance with the TOTO Global Environmental Vision, the plant will utilize environmetal (impacts reduction) equipment such as exhaust gas treatment facilities. At the same time, the plant will give consideration to the working environment for employees, including in terms of dust, temperature, noise, and transportation. In these ways, the No. 2 Plant will become an eco-friendly and employee-friendly plant. Positioning the No. 2 Plant as a site for the mass production of sanitary ware, we aim to commence full-scale operations at the plant in April 2021. Building the No. 4 Plant to TOTO VIETNAM to Serve as a Global Supply Base That Responds to Demand Around the World TOTO VIETNAM CO., LTD. commenced the construction of its No. 4 Plant (provisional name) in February 2020, which will serve as a new production site for sanitary ware. TOTO VIETNAM aims to begin full-scale operations at this plant in July 2022. The TOTO Group has thus far adopted the approach of local production for local consumption. In addition to this approach, the Group is now working to reinforce its production operations by establishing Asia as its global supply base with a view to optimizing its overall global supply structure. To date, TOTO VIETNAM has been operating the No. 1 and No. 2 plants in Hanoi and the No. 3 Plant in Hůng Yên Province, east of Hanoi. These plants have supplied sanitary ware not only in the Vietnamese market but also in the markets of other Asian countries and the United States. With the addition of the new plant, TOTO VIETNAM will supply sanitary ware products around the world as a global supply base that meets demand in each region. For the construction of this plant, TOTO VIETNAM will introduce the latest tunnel furnaces that boast high energy efficiency, in accordance with the TOTO Global Environmental Vision. Through such efforts, the plant will centralize the latest TOTO Group technologies and know-how to become an environmetal consious designed and cutting-edge plant. TOTO GROUP Integrated Report 2020 32 Cross-organizational Innovation Activities Management Resource Innovation Creating a Company That Attracts a Diverse Group of Human Resources and Offers a Vibrant, Challenging Working Environment Where Employees Can Work with Peace of Mind as Well as a Company Where Employees Can Take Pride in Their Work which we recognized that our employees hold a broad range of opinions toward workstyle reform. Accordingly, we aim to thoroughly reflect these opinions into our Management Resource Innovation activities. We will also swiftly move forward with bold activities aimed at understanding the systems, rules, and frameworks we should maintain and those that we should change without hesitation. Also, we will actively gather the opinions of young and mid-career employees regarding how TOTO can be a Tomoyuki Taguchi company where employees can work with peace of mind Director, and take pride in their work over the next five, 10, and 20 years. Managing Executive Officer We will then work to reflect those opinions in our activities. Going forward, we will promote Management Resource Innovation activities in order to realize workstyles that are uniquely TOTO. Realizing New Workstyles Our human resources are the most important resource Supporting the Group’s Growth with a Robust in achieving sustainable growth of the TOTO Group. For Business Foundation Management Resource Innovation, we have been promotThe base underpinning our Management Resource ing activities under the slogan “creating a company that Innovation is our mission to support the Group’s growth attracts a diverse group of human resources and offers a with a robust business foundation. With these activities, vibrant, challenging working environment where employwe are working to steadily control management resources ees can work with peace of mind.” From fiscal 2020, we such as people, products and services, cash, and informahave added “creating a company where employees can tion on a global basis. We are also working to strengthen take pride in their work” as a new concept for these activiefforts overseas to ensure that our labor contracts adhere ties. This concept was added based on our desire to not to local laws and regulations. simply create a “good” company but rather evolve ourIn terms of general accounting and tax accounting, we selves into a company that employees can take pride in. will take steps to optimize our balance sheet and incorpoSince fiscal 2018, we have been pursuing a broad rate the perspective of return on invested capital (ROIC) range of efforts toward workstyle reforms. As a result of in the performance management of each business and the COVID-19 pandemic, we are now implementing flexible product. Regarding information, we will establish a safe workstyles, such as teleworking, staggered working hours, and secure information-sharing foundation that does not and shorter working hours, as an emergency response to rely on manpower. All of these efforts are part of our the situation. In doing so, we have come to realize the activities to support our business foundation and aim to areas where our workstyle reform initiatives have been fortify and protect our management resources. However, effective as well as those areas in need of improvement. we will not devote all of our attention to protection. Based on this realization, in fiscal 2020 we will move Naturally, protecting our management resources is my forward with initiatives with five specific goals. These five most important duty and greatest responsibility. However, goals are “becoming an employee-friendly company,” to maximize the Group’s corporate value, we must also “becoming a company where people want to work,” place emphasis on aggressive activities that consider how “improving value creation and productivity,” “ensuring we can evolve such management resources as our people, business continuity,” and “enhancing work–life balance.” products and services, cash, and information. In the “With COVID-19” and “Post COVID-19” world, we will continue to pursue reforms to our business processes and The TOTO Group is a corporate group that values people, introduce new workstyles not constrained by time nor and I understand that instilling this idea on a Groupwide location. Through such efforts, we will accelerate our basis is what enables us to receive the support of the markets workstyle reforms. in each country and region of operation. Valuing people is Additionally, due to the COVID-19 pandemic, we a true strength of the Group and is ingrained in our DNA. understand that there have been significant changes to the To ensure that we always maintain this DNA, we will ambivalue systems of our employees. Therefore, we conducted tiously push forward with Management Resource Innovation an employee survey to ascertain such changes, through activities in a fun and exciting manner going forward. 33 TOTO GROUP Integrated Report 2020 TOTO WILL2022 Mid-Term Management Plan PI C K U P 2 0 1 9 The aim of the TOTO Group’s workstyle reforms is to realize happiness and growth for both individuals and society as a whole. Guided by this, we will foster a corporate culture and various frameworks for attracting a diverse group of human resources and offering a vibrant, challenging working environment where employees can work with peace of mind. Acquiring JIS Certification at Our Special-Purpose Subsidiary SUNAQUA TOTO SUNAQUA TOTO LTD. was founded through a joint investment by Fukuoka Prefecture, Kitakyushu City, and TOTO. In March 2020, SUNAQUA TOTO acquired the JIS*1 B2061 Faucets certification. SUNAQUA TOTO is a special-purpose subsidiary*2 that primarily engages in the assembly of water faucets, and over 60% of its employees are people with disabilities (as of April 2020). SUNAQUA TOTO conducts its operations as a Group company that meets TOTO’s safety and quality standards. Going forward, the company intends to continue the employment of those with disabilities and increase its number of overall employees. As such, SUNAQUA TOTO acquired the JIS B2061 Faucets certification, after previously acquiring the ISO 9001 (acquired March 2014) international standard for quality, to ensure that working for the company offers an even greater number of employees a sense of fulfillment. By acquiring the JIS certification, from April 2020 SUNAQUA TOTO is able to manufacture and ship products with the JIS mark, which verifies quality. Moving forward, this verification will help SUNAQUA TOTO further create employment opportunities. *1 JIS stands for Japan Industrial Standards and has been determined by the Ministry of Economy, Trade and Industry. JIS represents a set of domestic standards that stipulate regulations and measurement methods for industrial products in Japan. JIS has a total of 15 categories, and SUNAQUA TOTO received the JIS B2061 Faucets certification, which is under the “B: General Machinery” category. *2 As determined by the Ministry of Health, Labour and Welfare, a special-purpose subsidiary is a subsidiary that fulfills the condition of giving special consideration to the employment of people with disabilities. As a special case, employees at a special-purpose subsidiary are considered to be hired by the parent company and can be calculated into the employment rate of the parent company. Participating in The Valuable 500 International Initiative TOTO fully endorses the efforts of The Valuable 500, an international initiative for promoting the inclusion of people with disabilities, and began to participate in the initiative in December 2019. The Valuable 500 was created at the World Economic Forum Annual Meeting (Davos Conference) based on the believe that “inclusive businesses create an inclusive society.” Officially launched in January 2019, The Valuable 500 aims to have business leaders spur innovation to unlock the value that people with disabilities can bring to business, society, and the economy. The goals of The Valuable 500 relate closely to the TOTO Group’s efforts toward TOTO Universal Design, which gives consideration to diversity and aims to realize a society of coexistence. Furthermore, the TOTO Group strives to realize normalization to ensure that people with and without disabilities can reach their full potential at any place of work. In addition to employing people with disabilities on an ongoing basis, the Group also engages in actions within its manufacturing and workplace environments that give consideration to a diverse group of people. By participating in this initiative, the Group believes that it can further strengthen these efforts. The Valuable 500 website https://www.thevaluable500.com/ TOTO GROUP Integrated Report 2020 34 CSR TOTO Global Environmental Vision Activities TOTO GLOBAL ENVIRONMENTAL VISION Mission Materiality Cleanliness and Comfort Environment Relationships In light of the changing times and social trends, the TOTO Group revised its mission in October 2017, which declares its intent to implement in the medium to long term the primary items for the sustainable growth of the TOTO Group. Based on this new mission, we identified Cleanliness and Comfort, Environment, and Relationships, themes that impact both our business and society, as material issues. Global Environmental Goals Aims Major Initiatives Cleanliness and R  ealize cleanliness and comfort throughout the world Global expansion of clean and comfortable toilets Comfort P  ursue ease of use for everyone Widespread adoption of water-saving products P  rotect our limited water resources and connect with the future U  ndertake initiatives to fight global warming and Environment coexist with the earth CO2 emission reductions A  im for sustainable development together with local communities Social contribution activities entrenched in local communities Improved customer satisfaction B  uild deep, long-lasting relationships with customers O  ffer cultural support and contribute to society for the Relationships next generation Promotion of employee volunteer activities C  reate and share joy in work together Become a company that is pleasant to work at 35 TOTO GROUP Integrated Report 2020 The TOTO Global Environmental Vision acts as a driving force for the TOTO WILL2022 Mid-Term Management Plan. Within this vision, we have identified three themes to serve as the Group’s material issues. Based on these themes, we have determined important indicators and are pursuing various activities in order to realize our aims. TOTO Global Environmental Vision We are promoting the TOTO Global Environmental Vision as a plan for CSR activities in accordance with our material issues. This vision adopts the three themes of Cleanliness and Comfort, Environment, and Relationships, toward which we promote efforts on a global scale. To that end, we are delivering Cleanliness and Comfort to the world, engaging in manufacturing that is friendly to the Environment, and promoting business activities that value the Relationships we have with people. Additionally, by establishing this vision as a driving force for the TOTO WILL2022 Mid-Term Management Plan, we will work to integrate our management and CSR activities. At the same time, through such activities we will contribute to the realization of the SDGs set forth by the United Nations. Indicators Fiscal 2019 Results Fiscal 2022 Targets SDGs CEFIONTECT shipment ratio (overseas) 79% 79% TORNADO FLUSH shipment ratio (overseas) 44% 53% TOTO Global Environmental Vision WASHLET shipment volume (overseas) 0.63 million units 2 million units Reduction of water consumption during 940 million m3 1,100 million m3 product use*1 Total CO2 emissions from business sites 344 thousand tons 450 thousand tons Total CO2 emission reductions due to measures 24 thousand tons 22 thousand tons implemented Total CO2 emission reductions during product use*1 3.46 million tons 3.70 million tons Number of projects contributing to solve 77 cases 100 cases regional issues (total number since FY2018) Customer satisfaction from after-sales services 91.3% 90% (Japan) Ratio of repairs completed within two days of 78.4% 80% reception (overseas) Volunteer activity participation rate (total number of participants / number of consolidated 100% or more 100% or more employees = participation rate) Annual paid leave usage rate (Japan) 89.8% 100% Ratio of female managers (Japan) 1 2.3% 20% Employee turnover rate due to life events (Japan)*2 2.9% 0% *1 Reduction effect when compared with the case where products of 2005 continue to be used *2 Job turnover rate for employees raising children or providing nursing care but still wish to work TOTO GROUP Integrated Report 2020 36 TOTO Global Environmental Vision Cleanliness and Comfort The TOTO Group continuously offers products that relate to people’s lifestyles, centering on bathroom and kitchen plumbing products. To realize the desire of the Group’s founder to enrich people’s lifestyles through our businesses, we have focused on enhancing cleanliness and comfort within our product development, while thinking about the customer first. Going forward, we will strive to deliver clean and comfortable lifestyles to people around the world at every stage of their life, from childhood to old age. “Cleanliness and comfort” is one of three global themes of the TOTO Global Environmental Vision. To help us achieve this theme, we have established the goals of “realize cleanliness and comfort throughout the world” and “pursue ease of use for everyone” and are working to deliver clean and comfortable toilets on a global basis. By realizing cleanliness and comfort through our business activities, we will contribute to the SDGs. 1 Realize Cleanliness and Comfort throughout the World The TOTO Group has refined its manufacturing technology over the last 100 years. To create clean and comfortable toilet spaces for our customers, we have developed a range of clean technologies unique to TOTO, such as EWATER+, CEFIONTECT, RIMLESS, and TORNADO FLUSH. Based on TOTO CLEANOVATION, derived from the words “CLEAN” and “INNOVATION,” in fiscal 2019 we will continue to innovate technologies toward achieving “cleanliness and comfort to everyday lives” around the world. EWATER+ EWATER+ keeps clean by splushing hypochlorous acid water to waste everytime to use Keep clean Prevent the buildup Cleanability of dirt CEFIONTECT RIMLESS / TORNADO FLUSH A special glaze applied to the enamel to Rimless toilet bowls and a whirlpool-like ensures all waste matter flushes away flush mean toilets are thoroughly cleaned every time 37 TOTO GROUP Integrated Report 2020 2 Pursue Ease of Use for Everyone We propose and develop products by considering the livelihood of each and every one of our customers, including their age, physical condition, and lifestyle, in pursuit of craftsmanship that blends seamlessly into everyday life. Various Initiatives to Pursue Ease of Use for Everyone  The TOTO Group contributes to the creation of an affluent and comfortable society through its bathroom and kitchen plumbing products. In the 1960s, we began efforts that take into consideration those with disabilities, and are now making strides toward universal design as we pursue ease of use for everyone. In addition to developing and selling products that make use of universal design, we also issue reports that survey the questions and concerns that people in wheelchairs, people with infants, sexual minorities, and other groups have when using toilets outside of their homes. In addition, we make proposals for toilet spaces that take into account various circumstances, and these proposals have been adopted in numerous locations. Furthermore, by leveraging the insight we have in this regard, we actively suggest recommendations for laws and regulations, thereby helping to establish JIS and ISO standards pertaining to the design and layout of toilet operation equipment installed in public bathrooms. In recent years, we have been collaborating with public and private institutions to accelerate efforts toward establishing comfortable, easyto-use toilet facilities geared toward travelers at sightseeing destinations. In doing so, we have been promoting proposals for “toilet hospitality” TOTO Miyajima Omotenashi Toilet (Hatsukaichi City, Hiroshima Prefecture; Designer: AI SEKKEI Corporation): Established through that pursues ease of use for everyone. collaboration with public and private institutions based on a partnership between Hatsukaichi City and TOTO that was formed in 2017 TOTO’s Universal Design  Inheriting the Words of Our Founder, beginning with “Kindness must always come first,” we believe TOTO Global Environmental Vision craftsmanship is the act of considering people. To that end, we have continued to evolve TOTO’s Universal Design by closely observing the lifestyles of various people and turning a sympathetic ear to their concerns. To pursue the ease of use of our products for an even greater number of people going forward, we will listen to a broad range of opinions and develop and promote products of even higher quality. To Create, Is To Think About People The answer is in the questions. Who will use our products? What is difficult for them? What makes them comfortable? It’s always about the person. At TOTO, when we design products or spaces, we keep people in mind throughout the process. It’s about making life better for all, because when it comes to caring for people, meticulousness is key. Kindness. Wisdom. Technology. Effort. Universal Design Is Our History TOTO GROUP Integrated Report 2020 38 TOTO Global Environmental Vision Environment TOTO products are used in the daily lives of our customers over a long period of time. Accordingly, taking into account the perspective of the product life cycle (from raw material procurement and manufacturing to sale, distribution, use, and eventually disposal), reducing water and energy use in the stage of product use helps contribute significantly to conserving the global environment. For that reason, in addition to introducing energy-saving technologies and renewable energy sources at our manufacturing plants, we are striving to realize environmetal consious designes within our product development and popularize products that are based on these designs. “Environment” is another of the three global themes of the vision. For this theme, we have established the goals of “protect our limited water resources and connect with the future,” “undertake initiatives to fight global warming and coexist with the earth,” and “aim for sustainable development together with local communities,” and are engaging in various efforts to realize these goals. Based on these goals, we are working to “popularize water-saving products,” “reduce CO2 emissions,” and “engage in social contribution activities deeply rooted in local communities.” By protecting the environment through our business activities, we will contribute to the SDGs. Protect Our Limited Water Resources and Connect with 1 the Future The surface of the earth is mostly covered in water, but in actuality only 0.01% of that water can be used for the livelihood of people.* As a supplier of bathroom and kitchen plumbing products, we believe we have the duty to respond to the issue of depletion of water resources, as it significantly affects the daily lives of everyone. Accordingly, we continue to promote the reduction of water consumption during product use by developing water-efficient and comfortable products and distributing them on a global scale. * Source: Current State of Water Resources in Japan (2019), Ministry of Land, Infrastructure, Transport and Tourism Water-Saving Performance of Toilets Large flush 8L Large flush 3.8 L Approx. 49 % reduction in water consumption for cleaning toilets (Small flush 3.3L / (Small flush 6L) eco flush 3.0L) CS80B NEOREST Launched in 1999 * Calculated based on a family of four (two males and AH/RH two females) using large flushes one time a day per (Floor drainage) person and small flushes three times a day per person Launched in 2012 We have been working to reduce the amount of water needed to flush toilets and to expel and transport waste while ensuring toilets remain pleasant to use. In the NEOREST series, we created a toilet that uses only 3.8L of water per flush. In addition, we are striving to improve the water-conservation performance of our showers and other water faucets. 39 TOTO GROUP Integrated Report 2020 Undertake Initiatives to Fight Global Warming and 2 Coexist with the Earth The TOTO Group recognizes the possible impact of global warming on its businesses and society as one of its business risks, and is therefore working to reduce its CO2 emissions from a long-term perspective with a view to realizing a decarbonized society. On average, our products are used over a 20-year period, and if we look at this from the perspective of the entire life cycle this means the period of product use accounts for over 90% of our overall CO2 emissions. By actively working to reduce emissions in this stage of the life cycle, we aim to realize both comfortable and eco-friendly everyday lifestyles. In regard to CO2 emissions from our business activities, we are promoting CO2 reduction plans that take into account analyses of climate change by 2050 and our long-term business growth by 2030. Under these plans, we are actively introducing renewable energy sources on a Groupwide basis. In addition, we have announced our support for the recommendation of the Task Force on Climate-related Financial Disclosures (TCFD) and are disclosing climate-related financial information on our corporate website. Please refer to the following section for details on our initiatives related to climate change. https://jp.toto.com/en/company/csr/environment/warming/tcfd.htm Ratio of CO2 Emissions at Each Stage of Product Life Cycle Raw material and Manufacturing Sales Distribution Product use Disposal, etc. parts procurement 620,000 t 340,000 t 10,000 t 60,000 t 19.65 million t 270,000 t 3.0% 1.6% 0.1% 0.3% 93.8% 1.3% Targets for Total CO2 Emissions at Our Offices CO2 Reduction Targets for the Anticipated total CO2 emissions from business growth Product Use Stage TOTO Global Environmental Vision Targets for total CO2 emissions CO2 CO2 reduction reduction amount of amount of Reduce energy consumption 3.46 million t 3.70 million t Total CO2 emissions and introduce renewable energy sources 450,000 t Global Realize a decarbonized environmental Peak out society targets 2018 2022 2030 2050 (FY) 2019 2022 (FY) Aim for Sustainable Development Together with 3 Local Communities To develop sustainable local communities and a society that uses water effectively into the future, not only are the business activities of corporations important but the role of civic activities is also essential. To that end, we established the TOTO Water Environment Fund to support the activities of organizations that are working to preserve the global environment and create sanitary and comfortable living environments. Through this fund and other A location for drawing water constructed through the measures, we are contributing to the resolution of issues in activities of an organization supported by the TOTO Water Environment Fund (Pakistan) local communities as well as their sustainable development. TOTO GROUP Integrated Report 2020 40 TOTO Global Environmental Vision Relationships Through its business activities, the TOTO Group strives to be a company that contributes to the betterment of society and is trusted by people around the world. Guided by this aim, we continue to treasure the relationships we have with people. “Relationships” is another of the three global themes of the vision. For this theme, we established the goals of “build deep, long-lasting relationships with customers,” “offer cultural support and contribute to society for the next generation,” and “create and share joy in work together,” and are working to improve customer satisfaction, encourage employee participation in volunteer activities, and realize employee-friendly working environments. By building relationships through our business activities, we will contribute to the SDGs. 1 Build Deep, Long-Lasting Relationships with Customers We make proposals at showrooms to ensure that customers can purchase our products with peace of mind. We also make various efforts through our call centers to respond to any questions or concerns our customers may have when using our products. In addition, we provide an after-sales service that focuses on being fast, reliable, and courteous. In these ways, we will continue to develop strong, long-lasting relationships of trust with our customers. Initiatives for Showrooms  To enable our customers to feel and experience our products firsthand and thereby provide them with peace of mind when remodeling, we have established 100 showrooms in Japan and 13 directly managed showrooms overseas. Our Japanese locations include 14 showrooms that are operated in collaboration with DAIKEN and YKK AP, where we exhibit and propose living spaces featuring products from the three companies for our customers to immerse themselves in. Initiatives for After-Sales Services  “TOTO quality” refers not just to the quality of the products themselves but also their assembly and maintenance if a problem were to arise. We aim to reduce the amount of time between the receipt of a service request and the completion of necessary repairs by setting goals in our major countries and regions of operation and enhancing our after-sales services. In Japan, to help improve the quality of these services, we send a postcard questionnaire to customers in order to gather information on their satisfaction with our service. 41 TOTO GROUP Integrated Report 2020 Offer Cultural Support and Contribute to Society for 2 the Next Generation The TOTO Group contributes to the revitalization and development of local communities through the support of activities in architecture, art, and sports, in addition to encouraging its employees to participate in volunteer activities. In doing so, the TOTO Group strives to become a company that contributes to the development of a better society through its business activities. Promotion of Employee Volunteer Activities  The promotion of employee volunteer activities stands as one of our Global Environmental Goals. We actively Total Number of Volunteers support employee participation in volunteer activities in Fiscal 2019 across a broad range of fields, starting with social contribution activities such as tree-planting and city cleanups, as well as activities to provide aid to disaster-affected 43,400 regions and assist with sports. volunteers Create and Share Joy in Work Together 3 We conduct activities to promote diversity and implement workstyle reforms in order to be a company where a variety of personnel can gather, prosper, and be inspired to take on new challenges. Going forward, we will strive to realize new workstyles in response to the COVID-19 pandemic. In addition, we will continue to work with our suppliers to undertake activities that address CSR issues in such areas as human rights and labor, safety and health, and the environment. TOTO Global Environmental Vision Promotion of Diversity  The TOTO Group respects the individuality inherent in a diverse workforce, including age, gender, and nationality. It is our belief that diversity gives rise to fresh, new ideas that lead to the creation of prosperous and comfortable lifestyles. In particular, one of the flagship goals we are strongly pursuing is increasing the percentage of women in managerial positions in Japan. To this end, we are supporting the continuous success of women in the workplace through various efforts for our female employees, such as step-up training and training for management position candidates. Promotion of Work–Life Balance  We promote efforts to improve work–life balance because we believe that harmonizing the work and home life of employees will result in greater productivity and a greater sense of accomplishment from work. In addition to encouraging employees to take paid leave, we have also put in place various systems that facilitate the adoption of diverse workstyles and help employees balance work and childcare and nursing care responsibilities. Further, the TOTO Group has introduced its “work-from-home system” from April 2018 in order to establish an environment that allows its employees in Japan to keep working while balancing their childcare and nursing care responsibilities. Through this work-fromhome system, employees will be able to work from home for a few hours per day or even the entire day while managing their childcare and nursing care duties. TOTO GROUP Integrated Report 2020 42 Offering Satisfaction That Goes Above and Beyond Through the provision of highly attractive products and services, the TOTO Group strives to offer lifestyles that go above and beyond customer expectations. To that end, we work to ensure that the true quality of TOTO is evident during the process from making proposals at our showrooms to providing after-sales services, and are promoting a broad range of efforts to improve customer satisfaction throughout this process. A Word from a Customer Realizing a Design for Our Lifestyle that Goes Far Beyond Our Imagination We recently remodeled the house where my husband grew up, and I therefore had hoped to draw on the fact that this house is filled with A Word from a Customer memories for him. The contractor helped us create an attractive living space that can only be achieved through the remodeling of an old Japanese-style house, and when the remodeling process was finished we were so moved we almost cried. The contractor was able to give form to the various memories in this house that cannot be expressed in words, realizing a design for our lifestyle that goes far beyond our imagination. The contractor remade old fixtures and repainted the pillars and beams of the house’s structure that had faded in color. My husband was so happy, stating “It feels like I am reliving some of my oldest and fondest memories.” The contractor also restored storage spaces in the earthen floor leading to the backyard, which is extremely convenient. The once old house has now been reborn into a lovely home, and we also have more time now to spend as a family. We are also enjoying adding things that brighten our lives, thinking about what kinds of decorations we want to hang up around the house. In these ways, our everyday life is now full of excitement. Offer lifestyles that go Promoting the Anshin Remodeling Declaration to Relate Closely with Our Customers Based on the desire to offer remodeling services that satisfy all customers and provide peace of mind even to customers who are remodeling their home for the first time, TOTO’s Anshin Remodeling delivers Anshin to customers by visualizing the information they wish to know and in turn facilitating an understanding of that information. Our Remodeling Library provides easy-to-understand explanations on the flow of the remodeling process and information related to remodeling prices, as well as actual examples that help customers visualize their homes after the remodeling process is complete. With this library, we are working to further enhance the actual examples of remodeling that we show to customers. Additionally, at our Support Desk for Remodeling, staff with expert knowledge and actual remodeling experience provide support to customers TOTO Initiatives that covers all aspects of remodeling, including the flow of simply replacing facilities within the home, the flow of remodeling the entire interior space, and the process for selecting a contractor. This desk receives numerous consultations from customers. Remodeling Library (Website) Support Desk for Remodeling 43 TOTO GROUP Integrated Report 2020 Customer Expectations A Word from a TOTO Remodeling Club Shop Remodeling a 66-Year-Old House to Make It More Comfortable for Today’s Lifestyle The parents of the client for this project lived in this 66-year-old Japanese-style house, and we remodeled it to make it more comfortable for today’s lifestyle. It is a very spacious house, so we established an order of priority as we examined plans for the remodeling. The tatami room on the south side of the house is the best place for sunlight. We therefore turned that area into a living room, dining room, and a kitchen where the whole family can gather. We opted for an open kitchen so that the husband can entertain guests with a delicious fish dinner from fish he caught himself, as fishing is a hobby of his. We made use of the house’s beams and lintels and painted the ceilings a faded color to give them an antique look. We also installed black concrete floors to create an atmosphere that finds harmony between old and new. Furthermore, we put in a stylish chest of draws that has been used for generations in the earthen floor leading to the backyard. In addition, we remade old fixtures that had been put away in a storehouse and used them for parts to connect to the plumbing. K residence, Nara Prefecture Remodeling conducted by Sozokosha Co., Ltd., Furanmamigaoka Store Received Grand Prize at the national TDY REMODEL SMILE CONTEST 2019 beyond expectations TOTO Global Environmental Vision Implementing Customer Satisfaction Surveys Sharing Examples of Activities Emphasizing the To find out if we have satisfied customers through our daily Customer’s Perspective service activities, we implement customer satisfaction surveys With the aim of sharing examples of activities for improving that evaluate customer satisfaction using four indices. customer satisfaction, we hold the TOTO Group Customer Satisfaction Convention every year. At this convention, we select and present outstanding examples of activities conducted by each division. Results of Customer Satisfaction Surveys In fiscal 2019, 30 teams, which included participants from (%) (Score) China, Thailand, India, the United States, and the United 100 90.7% 91.5% 91.3% Kingdom, gave presentations. By sharing examples of the outstanding initiatives being carried out at our locations in 80 69.9% 71.0% 72.0% each country and region, we are promoting activities to 67.9% improve customer satisfaction on a Groupwide level. 60 64.1% 57.5% 40 69.0 points 70.3 points 68.8 points 100 20 50 0 2017 2018 2019 (FY) 0 After-sales service satisfaction rate Ratio of customers impressed with bath module assembly Total satisfaction index of showrooms Evaluations on customer response quality TOTO GROUP Integrated Report 2020 44 Together with Our Employees To realize the sustainable growth of the TOTO Group, we are promoting various efforts with the aim of creating a workplace that utilizes the individuality of all employees and allows them to work in a lively manner. To realize this aim, we are pursuing human resources management that embraces diversity and work–life balance. At the same time, we are also working to develop human resources in order to pass on our technologies, which represent our strengths as a corporation, to the next generation. In the past, I balanced my schedule with my wife by making use of the flextime system while my wife utilized the work-from-home system. However, as we both became very busy in fiscal 2019, I also started to use the work-from-home system so that we can continue to raise our children without it affecting our work. By doing so, we can adjust our schedules by balancing times when we focus on work and times when we take care of our children. This system has given us a higher level of freedom in terms of working times and location, and has led to a more fulling home A Word from an Employees and work life. (Yusuke) Through the utilization of the work-from-home system, I can secure time for work Yusuke Sato Keiko Sato even when I have to drop off and pick up our kids, which has enabled me to execute Section Manager Senior Planner my duties without any decline in performance. Establishing an order of priority of Group 1 Universal Design & Business Innovation Presentation Department work is something that happened naturally under this system, and I am even able Department to participate in office meetings remotely without issue. Our five-year-old daughter has noticed that I pick her up earlier, saying “You are early today, Mom. Look, the Realizing a Balance between sky is still bright.” Being at home has also given our eight-year-old son a great sense Child-Rearing and Work by of relief. (Keiko) Adjusting Our Schedules as Working Parents Work lively and utilize individuality Realizing Workstyles That Make Flexible Use of Time Hosting the Ceramic Sanitary Ware Technical Skills and Location Competition To prevent employees from leaving their position due to life events, We hold the Ceramic Sanitary Ware Technical Skills Competition we are promoting policies to support work–life balance, such as every year with the aim of sharing and passing on our know-how on the reduced work hours and leave systems. Additionally, we have the spirit of craftsmanship cultivated in Japan, in addition to further introduced the “work-from-home system” as an initiative to support improving our technological capabilities. the balance between work and child-rearing or nursing care by In fiscal 2019, preliminary competitions were held at 15 locations allowing employees’ time to be used more efficiently. As part of in nine countries and regions around the world, including Japan. our efforts to reform workstyles, we have established a dedicated There were 30 representatives from these locations who competed in TOTO Initiatives website on the in-house intranet where we introduce systems related the glazing division, and 27 representatives who competed in the to workstyle reform as well as role models for other employees. molding division. As for the results, representatives from TOTO VIETNAM CO., LTD. were the winners in both the glazing division and the molding division. Number of Employees Using the “Work-From-Home System” TOTO Group (Japan) Fiscal 2018 result Fiscal 2019 result 135 209 45 TOTO GROUP Integrated Report 2020 Together with Our Suppliers The TOTO Group considers its suppliers to be its partner in contributing to society and the global environment and realizing co-creation and growth. Together with its suppliers, the Group is providing valuable products and services to its customers through fair purchasing practices while giving ample consideration to the environment and social issues such as human rights. Starting with our involvement in the development stage of WASHLET, we have been doing business with TOTO for approximately 40 years, centered on the molding and assembly process for toilet seat components. Through the strengths we possess in terms of injection molding technologies and welding technologies, we have been working together with TOTO in the ultrasonic welding and oscillation welding of toilet seats with warming functions so as to thoroughly prevent water leakages, thereby improving product quality. At our company, we adhere to the idea of not accepting, creating, or offering A Word from a Supplier defective products within our quality control standards. In following these standards, we have established targets for reducing the rate of product defects and thoroughly enforcing quality control. We are extremely impressed with TOTO’s approach of strictly managing its product specifications to ensure that its Takashi Yoshimura customers can use even better products for longer periods of time. As a supplier, Vice President and Representative we are expected to adhere to quality control in a similar manner, and while Director ECHO Co., Ltd. exchanging opinions with TOTO as a partner of equal footing, we are working together to enhance quality control procedures in order to satisfy customers who use TOTO products. Offering Quality That Leads to Also, considering the impact of recent natural disasters and other events on the Customer Satisfaction and supply chain, we have commenced the operation of our Shiga Factory as part of TOTO’s response to strengthening its BCP. Under a three-location structure Helping Fulfill Supply comprising our Atsugi Head Office, the Fukuoka Factory, and the Shiga Factory, we Responsibility will strive to secure a steady supply and help TOTO fulfill its responsibility to supply products that are used by a large number of customers on a daily basis. Coexist and grow together while contributing to society and the environment TOTO Global Environmental Vision CSR Procurement Activities Biodiversity-Conscious Procurement Activities We work with our suppliers to undertake activities that address CSR We have established specific standards for our raw materials, such concerns in such areas as human rights and labor, safety and health, as earth and stone materials, and are conducting questionnaires and and the environment. In addition to holding policy briefings for our interviews with all supplier mines. Through these questionnaires suppliers, we carry out survey research and conduct interviews and and interviews, we verify whether or not suppliers are working to restore investigations through on-site visits. In fiscal 2019, we held policy forests and other natural surroundings after mining has been combriefings, in which 624 of our suppliers in Japan participated. pleted. We also confirm the status of supplier efforts to ensure that Overseas, we conduct CSR procurement activities that cater to the rivers, lakes, and marshes do not become polluted with mining drainage circumstances of each country and region, giving the utmost respect or pulverized waste. As a result of such efforts, we were able to confirm TOTO Initiatives for laws and customs as we strive to deepen mutual understanding that all of our supplier mines are fully complying with the Standards for and achieve mutually beneficial relationships. Sustainable Procurement of Raw Materials. Going forward, we will continue to conduct biodiversity-conscious procurement while working to bolster our efforts across the entire supply chain. Achievement Rate of Achievement Rate of Compliance with the Compliance Item TOTO Standards Standards of Mines Fiscal 2019 result Fiscal 2019 result Policy briefing for suppliers 100% Photograph of mine 100% TOTO GROUP Integrated Report 2020 46 For Society The corporate activities of the TOTO Group are only made possible through the sound and sustainable development of society. To that end, the Group uses its management resources effectively in conducting social contribution and community coexistence activities aimed at the resolution of local and global social issues. Through the establishment of “preserving the water environment,” “creating a sanitary and comfortable living environment,” and “developing the next generation” as core issues, we are promoting a broad range of activities. We are providing support for business activities aimed at restoring the wells needed to secure drinking water in regions of India that are experiencing droughts. A Message from the TOTO Water Environment Fund To make local communities better places, we need to work closely with community members as one team, rather than thinking about what Japan can do on its own or what India can do on its own. Furthermore, we cannot address water issues on a global scale without collaboration between corporations, private institutions, NGOs, NPOs, and government agencies. Based on the awareness that members of a local community are the experts on that community, we are conducting support activities geared toward regional development led by local people, regional revitalization, and the elimination of poverty. The strengths of the Institute of Cultural Affairs (ICA) lie in our extremely robust grassroots connections with local community members. Shizuyo Sato The philosophy of the TOTO Water Environment Fund is to support local activiExecutive Director ties on an ongoing basis. Also, with the support we receive from local communities, The Institute of Cultural Affairs (ICA) Japan we are able to enter into these communities and engage in activities together with their inhabitants. In that sense, the Fund is an organization that provides fulfillment and joy Supporting Activities That to local community members. Provide Fulfillment and Joy to Local Community Members Women participating in a training session on hygiene Realize a sustainable society Preserving the Water Environment Supporting the Development of Architectural Culture As a company that offers bathroom and kitchen plumbing products, Through the activities of TOTO GALLERY·MA and TOTO Publishing, TOTO strives to preserve water environments such as rivers and oceans. we have been supporting the development of architectural culture, We established the TOTO Water Environment Fund in 2005. with which our businesses have a deep connection. By holding Through this fund, we are supporting the activities of citizens and exhibitions and lectures featuring architects who are active on a organizations that work to protect water environments. At the same global scale, we are introducing the latest developments in the time, our employees participate voluntarily in such activities. Also, we architecture industry to students and others who will oversee the established the TOTO Water Environment Fund in China in 2008. future. Furthermore, we publish books that offer more detailed With this fund, we have contributed CNY10 million thus far and have information on the ideas and works of architects. Our architectureTOTO Initiatives been conducting educational activities on water conservation and oriented activities have been highly praised by members of the establishing water supply facilities. architectural community around the world. TOTO Water Environment Fund 15th grant assistance Grant assistance¥ 26.56 million (Fiscal 2020 to fiscal 2022) Number of organizations 10 Cumulative total Grant assistance¥364.31 million Number of organizations 269 TOTO GALLERY·MA “architecten de vylder vinck taillieu: VARIETE / ARCHITECTURE / DESIRE” (2019) © Nacása & Partners Inc. 47 TOTO GROUP Integrated Report 2020 Dialogue with Shareholders and Other Investors TOTO conducts investor relations (IR) activities that reflect the high priority we place on communication with our shareholders and other investors in Japan and overseas. Through the timely and appropriate disclosure of information pertaining to our corporate philosophy, management policies, business strategies, and financial and non-financial data, we aim to establish long-term, trust-based relationships with our shareholders and other investors by deepening their understanding of the Company and engaging in repeated dialogues with them. Working to Ensure Transparency and Fairness in Our IR Activities  Based on our IR Policy, we make timely disclosures through a dedicated webpage, hold individual meetings and financial results briefings, and conduct other activities to ensure transparency and fairness in our communication with individual and institutional investors. IR Policy https://jp.toto.com/en/company/ir/disclosure Relations with Institutional Investors  For domestic investors, we announce financial results twice a year, hold meetings to explain our strategies, and conduct showroom and plant tours. In addition, our top management engages in overseas activities aimed at institutional investors outside of Japan. Recently, investor interest in TOTO has been increasing year after year in tandem with the heightened awareness of our products overseas. Financial results briefing Meeting with overseas investors IR Activities in Fiscal 2019 4 5 6 7 8 9 10 11 12 1 2 3 External TOTO Global Environmental Vision announceFiscal 2018 financial First-quarter financial Second-quarter financial Third-quarter financial ments results briefing results presentation results briefing results presentation Number of dialogues with institutional investors in Japan and overseas: Approx. 300 Dialogue with September: institutional investors August: New York City, Boston, Singapore Los Angeles, and San Francisco Dividend Policy  We consider the return of profit to shareholders as an important part of our management policy. We therefore make it a rule to retain sufficient earnings to secure funds for building a firm corporate structure and expanding our business while assuring a stable return of profit to shareholders. We will place priority on utilizing our acquired profit and cash to conduct growth investments in order to establish a long-lasting and solid management foundation. These investments include improving product appeal, streamlining and strengthening production and sales systems, and developing new and overseas businesses. Any funds remaining after conducting such investments will be returned appropriately to our shareholders. Each fiscal year, we aim for a dividend ratio of 40% of our net consolidated profit for the term. In addition, we will determine the acquisition of treasury stock from a comprehensive standpoint, based on the need for flexibility in capital policies and the impact on our financial position. TOTO GROUP Integrated Report 2020 48 Stakeholder Engagement TOTO considers the concept of stakeholder engagement to be vital in building relationships of trust with stakeholders and in facilitating cooperation. By doing so, TOTO aims to improve societies for generations to come. CSR Communication with Stakeholders  We place importance on communication with all stakeholders, including customers, employees, shareholders, business partners, and society at large, and endeavor to develop closer relationships with them. We deepen interaction with our customers through various settings, such as events at our showrooms and factories, and we engage in direct dialogue with our business partners through policy briefing sessions and CSR questionnaires. In addition, for our shareholders, we disclose appropriate information in a timely manner and promote understanding of the spirit of TOTO manufacturing through such means as factory tours. Going forward, we will continue to make concerted efforts toward stakeholder engagement through two-way communication. Society Customers Sending lecturers to seminars and Showrooms educational institutions for training Customer Consultation Center Assistance for NPOs and community Factory remodeling fairs organizations; various volunteer activities (TOTO Water Environment Various exhibitions Fund, etc.) Cultural activities (TOTO GALLERY • MA, TOTO Publishing) TOTO Museum Factory tours, TOTO Summer Festivals Skull sessions with NPOs and CSR specialists Employees Various workplace meetings Employee awareness surveys Shareholders Intranet and Group magazine General Shareholders’ Meeting Whistleblowing system Various briefings (in-house / external contacts) Business partners Shareholder questionnaires Dialogue with institutional Policy briefing sessions investors CSR questionnaires CSR interview sessions Whistleblowing system (external contacts) Participating in a Stakeholder Engagement Program  We participate in the Human Rights Due Diligence Workshop, a stakeholder engagement program sponsored by Caux Round Table Japan. This workshop aims for the corporate application of the UN Guiding Principles on Business and Human Rights. Under this aim, the workshop has identified human rights issues by sector based on the input of multiple stakeholders, including companies, NGOs / NPOs, and various experts. In fiscal 2019, we worked to revise these human rights issues by sector together with other companies who participated in the workshop. In doing so, we deepened our understanding of the importance of valuing human rights in our business activities. Furthermore, we shared the content of this workshop internally and have established and implemented the TOTO Group Supplier Code of Conduct in order to ensure the protection of human rights within our supply chain. This code of conduct states the expectations we have of our suppliers in terms of human rights, labor, the environment, and the prevention of corruption. Discussion about “Human Rights Issues by Sector” ©2019CRT-Japan 49 TOTO GROUP Integrated Report 2020 CSR Management The TOTO Group considers CSR management to be management by the use of CSR initiatives for the purpose of bringing the TOTO Group Corporate Philosophy to life. Our corporate philosophy, based on the thoughts of the founder to be passed down through the generations, communicates to all of our stakeholders the purpose for which our company exists, our business domains, and the type of company we aim to be. The TOTO Group’s Materiality  TOTO’s Value creation materiality Value creation for society (Areas of activity and themes at TOTO that impact both value creation for society and at TOTO) The TOTO Group’s material issues (materiality) represent areas of activity and themes within our CSR management promotion that impact both value creation for society and value creation at TOTO. As part of the process for examining our materiality, we are referencing the SDGs and other international standards in order to carry out an analysis of themes that lead to value creation for society and themes that lead to value creation at TOTO. Through this process, we have established the three themes of Cleanliness and Comfort, Environment, and Relationships as our materiality based on TOTO’s Mission , which serves as a statement of the most important plan to implement in the medium to long term for sustainable growth. Process for Identifying Materiality  The CSR Committee, chaired by the president, took the following steps to deliberate on and identify our materiality. We identified issues based on the United Nations Global Compact, the SDGs, ISO, and other international guideStep 1 Identify issues lines, as well as on evaluations of the CSR activities we have promoted thus far. Step 2 Analyze issues We analyzed issues that should be resolved through our business from a mediumto long-term perspective. Hold discussions We held discussions at meetings of the CSR Committee, which is chaired by the president and attended by all TOTO Global Environmental Vision Step 3 by management Company directors. Step 4 Develop plans We established and are promoting a CSR Action Plan based on our materiality. Initiatives Based on Our Materiality  We have established and are promoting the TOTO Global Environmental Vision, which serves as a specific plan for our CSR activities based on our materiality. TOTO Global Environmental Vision Cleanliness and Comfort Environment Relationships Realize cleanliness and comfort throughout Protect our limited water resources and Build deep, long-lasting relationships the world connect with the future with customers Pursue ease of use for everyone Undertake initiatives to fight global warmOffer cultural support and contribute ing and coexist with the earth to society for the next generation Aim for sustainable development together Create and share joy in work together with local communities Clean technologies WASHLETTM Water-saving products Energy-saving factories Showrooms Volunteer activities Universal design TOTO Water Environment Fund Workstyle reforms TOTO GROUP Integrated Report 2020 50 CSR Management CSR Promotion System  We started our CSR activities in 2004 with the establishment of the CSR Committee and a full-time CSR department. The CSR Committee holds meetings once a year and is chaired by the Company’s president. The committee works to strategically integrate our business and CSR activities by taking a comprehensive approach to ESG fields. The committee holds discussions on the identification of materiality, the formulation of plans for CSR activities, and the response to CSR issues, including climate change and other issues. Each subcommittee of the CSR Committee formulates CSR promotion plans, which are implemented in relevant divisions and at domestic and overseas Group companies. Promotion System of the CSR Committee CSR Committee (chaired by the president) (Secretariat) ESG Promotion Department Environmental (E) Social (S) Governance (G) Products and services subcommittee Supply chain management subcommittee Group management subcommittee Energy-saving measure subcommittee Customer satisfaction subcommittee Risk management subcommittee Packaging and logistics Human resource Compliance subcommittee environmental subcommittee management subcommittee Waste management subcommittee Social contribution and corporate citizenship subcommittee Participation in the UN Global Compact  TOTO announced its participation in the “Global Compact,” which is put forward by the United Nations, and registered as a participating company on November 8, 2011. In order to announce to the international community the company’s intent to further strengthen its CSR (Corporate Social Responsibility) management, which TOTO has long been promoting, behave as a responsible corporate citizen on a global scale, and constructively carry out its social responsibilities, TOTO will uphold the 10 principles on “Human Rights, Labor, Environment, and Anti-Corruption” that are cited by the “Global Compact” and put them into practice through all its business activities. Evaluations of Our CSR Management Practices by External Parties  In addition to evaluations from a financial perspective, we receive high evaluations from environmental and social perspectives from global ESG evaluation institutions. THE INCLUSION OF TOTO LTD. IN ANY MSCI INDEX, AND THE USE OF MSCI LOGOS, TRADEMARKS, SERVICE MARKS OR INDEX NAMES HEREIN, DO NOT CONSTITUTE A SPONSORSHIP, ENDORSEMENT OR PROMOTION OF TOTO LTD. BY MSCI OR ANY OF ITS AFFILIATES. THE MSCI INDEXES ARE THE EXCLUSIVE PROPERTY OF MSCI. MSCI AND THE MSCI INDEX NAMES AND LOGOS ARE TRADEMARKS OR SERVICE MARKS OF MSCI OR ITS AFFILIATES. 51 TOTO GROUP Integrated Report 2020 Risk Management  Basic Approach and Promotion System The TOTO Group makes relentless efforts to eliminate all factors that could hinder the implementation of management policies in order to maintain the confidence of society and fulfill its corporate social responsibilities. In cases of unexpected problems, maximum efforts will be made to minimize various effects on stakeholders and restore the confidence of related parties by developing appropriate preventive measures. Under the guidance of the president, we have established the Risk Management Committee, which is chaired by the executive vice president. In accordance with the TOTO Group Rules for Risk Management, the committee assesses any risks that may have a significant impact on our business and society, and identifies major risks that the Company must work to address. The identified risks are addressed through collaboration between the risk management divisions designated for each field and all Company divisions and Group companies by striving to prevent such risks and enhancing the Group’s risk management response. Risk Simulations To improve our prevention and response capabilities to major risks, we have been continuously carrying out practical risk simulations at all locations in Japan and overseas. The risks simulated include natural disasters and product-related accidents. In addition, as part of our efforts to establish a robust risk management structure, we conduct level-specific risk management training targeted at employees newly appointed to positions, from department head to the managerial ranks. We are also moving forward with a broad range of other efforts, including unified simulation training that uses a safety confirmation system in anticipation of earthquakes and other large-scale disasters. Risk simulation training Compliance  Basic Approach and Promotion Structure Compliance Activity Cycle The TOTO Group adheres to laws, regulations, and social norms within its corporate activities and Plan Do strives to foster an organizational culture that Establish annual Promote compliance management systems plans and priority TOTO Global Environmental Vision promotes fair and transparent action. To create issues Compliance a firm structure for promoting compliance, we Committee established the Compliance Committee, chaired by Create an organization the executive vice president, under the guidance of Act that values compliance Improve activities the president. We have also clearly stipulated the and frameworks Legal Control All divisions and roles and authority of the Legal Control Division, Division Group companies which conducts activities accordingly. The Compliance Check Committee meets four times a year and works to Evaluate implementation of planned activities Implement a compliance and incorporate processes in the Company’s structure Conduct employee compliance awareness corporate ethics program (yearly) surveys to verify the progress of compliance education, Perform audits monitoring, and other compliance-related activities. In these ways, we are promoting compliance activities that are highly effective and transparent. In addition, we formulated the TOTO Group Business Conduct Guidelines, which we have rolled out on a Groupwide basis, including in our overseas businesses. Under these guidelines, we are striving to build ethical standards and enhance awareness of compliance. Furthermore, in Japan we have a system of internal and external hotlines for receiving reports of actual or potential workplace compliance issues and resolving them. These systems have also been fully deployed overseas since fiscal 2015, operating in six countries and regions of operation, including China and the United States. TOTO Group Business Conduct Guidelines TOTO GROUP Integrated Report 2020 52 Corporate Governance Basic Stance on Corporate Governance  The TOTO Group strives to be a great company, trusted by people all around the world, contributing to the betterment of society. In addition to being a corporate entity engaged in the pursuit of profit through fair competition, the Group conducts its business in such a way as to continue to benefit society broadly. In order to realize this target, we believe it is important to build a system for pursuing and supervising fair and equitable management, and clearly define a philosophy that serves as the basis of such a system. Composition of the Board of Directors and Audit & Supervisory Board in Fiscal 2020  We believe that in order to supervise business operations and to make important decisions, TOTO’s Board of Directors must be composed of members with diverse perspectives, experience, and highly professional skills. Meanwhile, for the purpose of performing the double-check function of supervision by the Board of Directors and of audits by Audit & Supervisory Board Members, Outside Directors need to include not only auditors required by law, but also Directors with voting rights at Meetings of the Board of Directors; and both Audit & Supervisory Board Members and Directors must have considerable independence. As of June 25, 2020, we have 12 Directors with voting rights at Meetings of the Board of Directors, of whom 9 are Inside Directors with careers in the TOTO Group and three are highly independent Outside Directors. These members use their respective skills in discussions to make legal and business management decisions and supervise business operations. The Audit & Supervisory Board consists of two standing members with careers in the TOTO Group and two outside members with a high level of independence, and conducts audits from the perspectives of legality and appropriateness. Reasons for Adoption of Current Corporate Governance System  The TOTO Group considers that an essential aspect of corporate management is ensuring the satisfaction of stakeholders and constantly expanding corporate value by improving objectivity and transparency in management and by clarifying management responsibilities. To achieve this, for matters requiring management decisions, TOTO recognizes the importance of systematizing who makes decisions about what and where as well as what checks are implemented in a fair and honest manner. TOTO has adopted the Audit & Supervisory Board system and is building a structure of decision-making, supervision, and more efficient and effective business execution, with the aim of continuously increasing corporate value. 1. Clarifying the allocation of management responsibility (introduction of the Executive Officer system and the like) 2. Enhancing management transparency and soundness (establishment of the Nominating Advisory Committee and the Compensation Advisory Committee) 3. Reinforcing supervisory and auditing functions (nomination of highly independent Outside Directors and Outside Members of the Audit & Supervisory Board) 4. Strengthening decision-making functions (establishment of the Management Committee and the like) In order to strengthen these functions, TOTO has adopted the framework of a company with an Audit & Supervisory Board system as its base while integrating the superior functions of a company with Nomination Committee, etc. Corporate Governance System Three-party TOTO General Meeting of Shareholders audit team (Appointment / Dismissal) Nominating Advisory Committee (Appointment / Dismissal) Five Independent Directors, TOTO Board of Directors two Representative Directors (Audit) (Report) TOTO Audit & Supervisory Board Nine Inside Directors, Two standing members, Compensation Advisory Committee three Outside Directors Six outside members including five Independent two outside members (Appointment, delegation, Directors and one Director without the right of TOTO Independent Accounting Auditors (Report) representation as an inside member supervision) (Direction) (Consultation) TOTO Internal Audit Office TOTO President TOTO Management Committee TOTO Executive Officers (Internal audit) (Delegation) CSR Committee (Direction, supervision) Other meetings and committees Japan Housing China & Asia Housing Americas & Europe New Business Domains Company-wide Divisions Equipment Business Equipment Business Housing Equipment Business Cross-organizational tasks 53 TOTO GROUP Integrated Report 2020 Please see the TOTO Group website for more details. https://jp.toto.com/en/company/profile/governance Compensation for Directors and Audit & Supervisory Board Members  The maximum amount of compensation for Directors and Audit & Supervisory Board Members is determined respectively for Directors, Outside Directors, and Audit & Supervisory Board Members by resolutions of General Meetings of Shareholders. Compensation for Directors of TOTO comprises fixed compensation in the form of base compensation, and performance-linked compensation, The performance-based payment consists of a bonus and the share-based payment. The upper limit to the bonus is 0.8% of the consolidated sales revenue of the previous fiscal year. The payment is synchronized with business performance. In the 152nd annual shareholders’ meeting on June 26, 2018, we decided to adopt share-based payments because it would motivate board members to continuously improve corporate value. In addition, we decided to incorporate share-based payments with restricted transfer rights, in addition to the stock options with share-based payments, to further promote the sense of value-sharing with shareholders. As seen in these decisions, we are designing the payment systems to motivate the board of directors to engage in business administrations from the mid-to-long-term perspectives rather than individual years. In addition, the Compensation Advisory Committee was set up to help ensure that the compensation for Directors is reasonable and objective. The Board of Directors determines the compensation after confirming with the Compensation Advisory Committee that the compensation system and allocation balance are in line with the Articles of Incorporation, the resolutions of the General Meeting of Shareholders, and the Basic Policy for Directors’ Compensation. Note that Outside Directors, who are independent from the business operations, are entitled to only fixed compensation. The base compensation for individual Audit & Supervisory Board Members is determined depending on his / her duties and responsibilities upon consultation with Audit & Supervisory Board Members. In order to preserve the functionality of their role as supervisors of management, Audit & Supervisory Board Members are entitled to only fixed compensation. Total Amount of Compensation by Type for Directors and Audit & Supervisory Board Members Share-based payments Number of Base Bonus with restricted Total officers compensation (million yen) transfer rights (million yen) (person) (million yen) (million yen) Directors 14 402 220 109 732 (Outside Directors included above) (3) (36) — — (36) Audit & Supervisory Board Members 6 85 — — 85 (Outside members of Audit & (4) (24) — — (24) Supervisory Board included above) Total 20 488 220 109 818 * The total amount of compensation approved at the shareholders’ meeting is as follows. (Decision in the 145th Regular Shareholders’ Meeting on June 29, 2011, and decision in the 152th Regular Shareholders’ Meeting on June 26, 2018) Fixed compensation Performance-linked compensation Share-based payments with Base compensation Bonus restricted transfer rights Up to 500 million yen per annum Up to 0.8% of the previous fiscal year’s Up to 200 million yen Director (including an amount up to 50 million yen consolidated operating income And within 100,000 shares in total for Outside Directors) Audit & Supervisory Up to 150 million yen per annum — — Board Member Corporate Governance Amounts of Compensation, etc., of Directors Whose Total Amount of Compensation, etc., Exceeds 100 million yen, by Type of Payment Directors of 100 million yen or more are as the following in fiscal 2019. Share-based payments with Base compensation Bonus Total restricted transfer rights (million yen) (million yen) (million yen) (million yen) Representative Director 63 40 16 120 Kunio Harimoto Representative Director 63 40 16 120 Madoka Kitamura TOTO GROUP Integrated Report 2020 54 Corporate Governance Outside Directors and Outside Members of the Audit & Supervisory Board  Since all Outside Directors and Outside Members of the Audit & Supervisory Board are invited to join their respective boards as members who can make decisions materially independent of the management of TOTO and all other specific stakeholders, we designate all Outside Directors and Outside Members of the Audit & Supervisory Board as Independent Directors/Audit & Supervisory Board Members. We nominate candidates for Outside Directors and Outside Members of the Audit & Supervisory Board who fully satisfy the Nominating Advisory Committee’s Requirements for Independent Directors/Audit & Supervisory Board Members, the satisfaction of which is set forth by TOTO as a mandatory requirement. * Please refer to “Requirements for Independent Directors/Audit & Supervisory Board Members” in the Corporate Governance section of our website. Evaluation of Effectiveness of the Board of Directors  The roles of the TOTO’s Board of Directors include decision-making in favor of stakeholders, mutual supervision of the execution of the duties of the Directors, the formulation of an execution and supervision system for more equal and fair management, as well as the determination of basic management policy, such as the common philosophy of the TOTO Group, mid-/long-term management plan, and the annual policy that becomes a foothold. With these roles, at meetings of the Board of Directors, the Board annually confirms the status of corporate governance and analyzes and evaluates its effectiveness and appropriateness, as well as the effectiveness and appropriateness of the Company’s corporate governance system. To ensure that candid opinions are gathered from all Directors and Audit & Supervisory Board Members and objective analyses are made in the analysis and evaluation process, a questionnaire survey has been regularly conducted and its collection and analysis of the result are outsourced to an external organization. In December 2019, an anonymous questionnaire survey was delegated to and conducted by an external organization for all Directors and Audit & Supervisory Board Members on the structure and operation of the Board of Directors, nomination and compensation structure for Directors, and support system for external directors. In March 2020, all members, including Outside Directors and outside members of the Audit & Supervisory Board, who attended the meeting of the Board of Directors evaluated the effectiveness of its activities from the perspective of related items of the Board of Directors in the context of its roles within the company based on the corporate governance code, including the operational status of the internal control system, corporate strategy, and other agendas of the Board of Directors to define general direction, as well as the questionnaire results. The results of these analyses and evaluations concerning the effectiveness of the Board of Directors as a whole are as follows: (1) In accordance with the Basic Policy for Development of Internal Control System, the system ensures that the execution of Directors’ duties complies with the laws and regulations and the articles of incorporation, and all other items are operated positively. (2) Matters to be resolved at Meetings of the Board of Directors are submitted in accordance with the relevant rules, and the system is so operated that the status of the execution of significant deals, such as matters to be resolved at Management Committee meetings, is reported to the Board of Directors. (3) The members engage in detailed inspections of all items of the corporate governance codes, especially the related items of the Board of Directors, to correspond properly. (4) From the results and analysis of the questionnaire, we recognized the following points: i Based on the evaluation by the external organization that the survey was delegated to, TOTO’s Board of Directors has the following strengths. All board members actively participate in discussion with a strong awareness The Board of Directors extracts valuable opinions by exchanging information with external directors and actively accepts them. ii Some issues are found in promoting diversity related initiatives in the Board of Directors and will be addressed for improvement. From the above, we have confirmed that the operation of the Board of Directors is functioning properly and its effectiveness is ensured. We will continue to implement the following activities to allow for active discussions and improve the issues found from the questionnaire results to ensure the effectiveness of the Board of Directors and further increase its functions:  rioritizing issues at Management Committee meetings to engage in active discussions at Meetings of the Board P of Directors; Ensuring enough time for discussions by distributing materials for the meetings of the Board of Directors and providing explanations concerning such materials in advance; Improving the function of the Board of Directors through proposals from the Directors themselves; Considering issues to be resolved at the Board of Directors for more strategic discussions; and Actively implementing IR activities by Representative Directors and providing feedback to the Board of Directors. 55 TOTO GROUP Integrated Report 2020 Messages from Outside Directors  In fiscal 2019, the biggest issue for TOTO was to establish TOTO has raised the standards for toilets in Japan. a path to recovery in the Chinese and U.S. markets while I feel that the Company can further enhance its potential being supported by the relatively stable market in Japan. by communicating and promoting a culture of clean toilets At the start of 2020, efforts to address this issue were to an even greater extent. Having standards for clean disrupted by the COVID-19 pandemic. Throughout fiscal and sanitary is something that has yet to be adopted in 2020, uncertainty regarding the future will likely continue, many parts of the world. TOTO can establish itself as an and without a doubt this will be an extremely challenging indispensable company by striving to deliver clean and year in which not only TOTO but the global economy as a comfortable lifestyles to those living in these countries whole will suffer major adverse impacts. and regions. Moreover, the differences in strengths between In terms of governance, TOTO has steadily made companies will become strikingly obvious as companies advancements from both a design perspective and a must continue business operations amid these highly practical perspective. As such, I am confident that in fiscal uncertain circumstances, where it is difficult to even define 2020 TOTO will be able to overcome these hardships by risks. TOTO boasts numerous strengths, such as its leveraging the strengths it has steadily accumulated thus product and human resources capabilities, business far, thereby contributing to society and staying ahead of the processes, and brand power. Over its history, TOTO has competition. Going forward, I will continue to draw on my continued to deliver products and services to the world experience to support TOTO’s new management structure, that offer new value in accordance with the times. In the which centers on President Kiyota. highly unpredictable “With COVID-19” and “Post COVID-19” world, I believe that TOTO will be able to differentiate itself from other companies by creating new products and services that draw on bacterial reduction, cleanliness, touchless, cleanability. Masatsugu Shimono Outside Director Looking back on fiscal 2019, I feel that the activities that It is also crucial for the Company to consider how best to TOTO pursued were in line with the vision it aims to advance its businesses while enhancing the social value it achieve as a company. Based on its continuous goal of has to offer. In the “With COVID-19” and “Post COVID-19” “keep gaining TOTO fans around the world,” the Company world, TOTO needs to once again communicate to the made steady progress with its overseas businesses while world its ideas for sanitary living and clean and comfortalso cultivating latent strengths. able lifestyles. Meanwhile, the Company still faces issues pertaining Also, the role of governance is to maximize corporate to the further advancement of its overseas businesses. value. The first step in that process is considering the kind One of these issues is localization. Almost all of TOTO’s of value TOTO can offer society and then establishing overseas businesses are led by Japanese nationals. Local frameworks that aim to achieve that value by enhancing the employees have yet to reach a position where they can value the Company offers its various stakeholders, including drive local bussinesses on their own. TOTO promotes customers, employees, business partners, local community businesses that value connections between people and members, and shareholders and other investors. In that society (local communities), and as such it is imperative sense, TOTO has excelled in clearly determining the kind that people raised under the culture of a certain country of value it aims to offer society, which is the first step in and region lead the Company’s businesses in that country this very important process. Corporate Governance and region. The first step in accomplishing this is to The Company has adopted the goal of “keep gaining transition to a structure in which local employees particiTOTO fans around the world,” and is steadily promoting pate in business management and where the direction of a efforts to reach this goal. Going forward, I will work to help local business is determined on-site, not from Japan. the Company accomplish this task by drawing on my Also, with the COVID-19 pandemic, the awareness of experience and insight and engaging in invigorating sanitation around the world is changing. Under these discussions at meeting of the Board of Directors. circumstances, it is extremely important for TOTO to consider what it can do as a company and how it can impact people’s awareness of sanitation on a global basis. Junji Tsuda Outside Director TOTO GROUP Integrated Report 2020 56 Board of Directors Directors  Representative Director, President, Chairman of the Board Representative Director Madoka Kitamura Noriaki Kiyota Date of Birth: May 24, 1957 Date of Birth: October 8, 1961 In charge of Global Business Promotion, Digital Innovation, Management Planning, and Secretary’s Office Representative Director, Director, Executive Vice President Senior Managing Executive Officer Satoshi Shirakawa Soichi Abe Date of Birth: August 12, 1962 Date of Birth: August 22, 1961 In charge of Customer Service, Cultural In charge of China & Asia Housing Promotion, Design, and in charge of Equipment Business, Internal Audit TOTO WILL2022 Marketing Innovation Office, and in charge of TOTO WILL2022 China & Asia Housing Equipment Business Director, Director, Senior Managing Executive Officer Managing Executive Officer Ryosuke Hayashi Tomoyuki Taguchi Date of Birth: September 4, 1963 Date of Birth: September 24, 1965 In charge of Restroom Business Group In charge of Human Resource, and New Domain Business Group, Accounting & Finance, Legal Affairs, Production Technology Business Group, Information System Planning, General and in charge of TOTO WILL2022 New Affairs, Purchasing, Engineering Works, Business Domains and in charge of TOTO WILL2022 Management Resource Innovation Director, Director, Managing Executive Officer Managing Executive Officer Shinya Tamura Toshiya Kuga Date of Birth: March 13, 1967 Date of Birth: March 3, 1962 In charge of Americas & Europe Housing In charge of Sales Promotion Group, Equipment Business, and in charge of Logistics, and in charge of TOTO TOTO WILL2022 Americas & Europe WILL2022 Japan Housing Equipment Housing Equipment Business Business Director, Managing Executive Officer Takayuki Shimizu Date of Birth: June 5, 1962 In charge of Bathroom, Kitchen & Lavatory Vanity, Faucets & Appliances, and General Manager of Kitchen & Lavatory Vanity Division, and President, Representative Director of TOTO High Living LTD., and in charge of TOTO WILL2022 Demand Chain Innovation 57 TOTO GROUP Integrated Report 2020 Outside Directors  Outside Director Outside Director Outside Director Masatsugu Shimono Junji Tsuda Shigenori Yamauchi Date of Birth: December 11, 1953 Date of Birth: March 15, 1951 Date of Birth: February 24, 1949 Mr. Masatsugu Shimono has been involved in the Mr. Junji Tsuda has been involved in the Mr. Shigenori Yamauchi has been involved in the management of IBM Japan, Ltd. for many years. He management of Yasukawa Electric Corporation for management of Sumitomo Light Metal Industries, provides valuable opinions at Meetings of the many years. He provides valuable opinions at Ltd. (currently, UACJ Corporation) for many years. Board of Directors based on his expertise he has Meetings of the Board of Directors based on his He has earned the experience and knowledge of developed in his career as a professional corporate expertise he has developed in his career as a the general management of the manufacturer, and manager and displays outstanding supervision skills professional corporate manager and displays craftsmanship, throughout his career. by reflecting his views unfettered by the conventional outstanding supervision skills by reflecting his TOTO expects that he will provide valuable way of doing things in the Company’s management. views unfettered by the conventional way of doing opinions at meetings of the Board of Directors TOTO believes that he has experience and things in the Company’s management. based on his expertise as a professional of the knowledge of general management and corporate TOTO believes that he has experience and manufacturer management and craftsmanship, and governance as well as of the management of a knowledge of general management and corporate he will display outstanding supervision skills by global company, and therefore the Company governance as well as of the management of a reflecting his views, which are unfettered by the selected and appointed him as Outside Director. global company, and therefore the Company conventional way of doing things, in the Company’s selected and appointed him as Outside Director. management, and therefore the Company selected and appointed him as Outside Director. Audit & Supervisory Board Members  Audit & Supervisory Board Audit & Supervisory Board Member, Standing Member, Standing Yuichi Narukiyo Shigeki Inoue Date of Birth: March 18, 1962 Date of Birth: March 10, 1962 Outside Members of the Audit & Supervisory Board  Audit & Supervisory Board Audit & Supervisory Board Member, Outside Member, Outside Shuichi Sarasawa Yasushi Marumori Date of Birth: October 12, 1948 Date of Birth: September 19, 1957 Corporate Governance Mr. Shuichi Sarasawa has been involved in the Mr. Yasushi Marumori was involved in the management of Central Glass Co., Ltd. for many management of financial institutions for many years. He has experience and knowledge of the years. He has experience and knowledge of finance general management of a global corporation and and corporate governance developed during his of corporate governance developed during his career, as well as abundant experience and career, as well as of a broad range of businesses knowledge as an Audit & Supervisory Board from chemicals to semiconductors. Member of listed companies. Based on the above, TOTO believes he is highly Based on the above, TOTO believes that, based capable of auditing the business execution of on his considerable knowledge of financing and general management, and therefore TOTO accounting, he is highly capable of auditing the selected and appointed him as Outside Audit & business execution of general management, and Supervisory Board. therefore TOTO selected and appointed him as Outside Audit & Supervisory Board. TOTO GROUP Integrated Report 2020 58 Financial and Non-Financial Highlights Financial Highlights  Net Sales Operating Profit / Operating Margin (Million yen) (Million yen) (%) 592,301 596,497 600,000 553,448 567,889 60,000 12.0 567,305 586,086 52,602 544,509 476,275 47,181 46,137 47,446 500,000 8.9 433,557 452,686 45,000 8.5 40,167 9.0 37,426 8.1 8.4 36,760 400,000 6.9 6.9 6.2 23,376 300,000 30,000 6.0 18,779 4.9 14,014 4.1 200,000 15,000 3.2 3.0 100,000 0 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 2016 2017 2018 2019 (FY) 0 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 2016 2017 2018 2019 (FY) 0 Operating profit Operating margin Profit Attributable to Owners of Parent / R&D Costs / R&D Cost Ratio Profit Attributable to Owners of Parent Ratio (Million yen) (%) (Million yen) (%) 50,000 10.0 24,000 21,467 6.0 44,122 20,594 21,158 19,098 19,388 8.0 36,798 17,428 18,466 40,000 35,723 8.0 16,643 15,983 32,960 32,380 18,000 15,606 4.5 6.3 6.2 3.7 3.5 3.6 3.6 3.4 3.4 3.4 3.4 30,000 24,813 5.8 5.5 6.0 3.6 23,583 4.6 12,000 3.1 3.0 16,956 4.0 20,000 3.6 4.0 9,270 5,115 6,000 1.5 10,000 2.0 2.0 1.2 0 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 2016 2017 2018 2019 (FY) 0 0 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 2016 2017 2018 2019 (FY) 0 Profit attributable to owners of parent and net loss R&D costs R&D cost ratio Profit attributable to owners of parent and net loss ratio ROE (Net profit base) ROA (Operating profit base) (%) (%) 19.4 20.0 12.0 10.7 9.4 8.8 8.7 15.0 13.1 9.0 1 1.5 1 1.7 7.1 7.5 6.3 9.6 10.0 6.0 5.0 10.0 6.0 8.8 7.0 3.7 5.2 5.0 2.8 3.0 0 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 2016 2017 2018 2019 (FY) 0 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 2016 2017 2018 2019 (FY) Dividend per Share* / Payout Ratio* EPS (Yen)(%) (Yen) 100 90 90 80.0 250.0 212.0 217.5 67.3 64.6 194.9 191.3 72 200.0 75 68 60.0 47.1 139.3 150.0 130.2 50 36.9 35.2 34.9 40.0 28.3 33.1 30.2 100.0 73.8 23 26 25 20.0 49.5 14 17.7 10 10 50.0 27.1 14.9 (̶) 0 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 2016 2017 2018 2019 (FY) 0 0 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 2016 2017 2018 2019 (FY) Dividend per share Payout ratio * W e have changed the number of shares constituting one unit to 100 shares from 1,000 shares and also consolidated its shares (consolidate two shares to one share) on October 1, 2015. The amount for the total annual dividends per share in FY2015 is omitted and shown as a dash (–) as the 2nd quarter-end dividends per share and the fiscal year-end dividends per share cannot be simply added. In addition, the amount for the dividends per share are 15.00 yen (before share consolidation) for the 2nd quarter-end dividends and 34.00 yen (after share consolidation) for the fiscal year-end dividends. 59 TOTO GROUP Integrated Report 2020 Non-Financial Highlights  Number of Employees* Reduction of Water Consumption during Product use* (Million m3) 40,000 1,000 940 33,431 33,554 860 32,428 780 30,334 740 28,148 800 30,000 660 600 20,000 400 10,000 200 0 2015 2016 2017 2018 2019 (FY) 0 2015 2016 2017 2018 2019 (FY) * Number of employees represents the number of full-time employees. * Reduction effect when compared with the case where products of 2005 continue to be used. Percentage of Paid Holidays Taken* GHG Emissions* (%) (Tons CO2/million yen) 100 89.8 0.6 78.8 80.8 76.1 74.6 80 0.28 0.28 0.30 0.30 0.28 0.4 60 40 0.2 0.30 0.30 0.30 0.30 0.30 20 0 2015 2016 2017 2018 2019 (FY) 0 2015 2016 2017 2018 2019 (FY) *A ctual results for full-time / contract employees of TOTO LTD. for the period from FY2015 to Scope 1 (per unit of sales) Scope 2 (per unit of sales) FY2016. Actual results for full-time / contract employees of the entire TOTO Group (Japan) * From fiscal 2018, the conversion coefficient has been changed. for FY2017. TOTO Water Environment Fund Lost Time Injury Frequency Rate* No. of Organizations (Cumulative Total)* 0.29 0.3 300 259 249 0.23 239 0.21 204 0.19 0.19 0.2 200 180 0.1 100 12 0 2015 2016 2017 2018 2019 (FY) 0 2005 2015 2016 2017 2018 2019 (FY) *N umber of injuries per million working hours. The data covers manufacturing and research * Number of organizations for each fiscal year is the cumulative total from fiscal 2005. & development sectors. Two equity-method affiliated companies that are subject to TOTO Group’s management for safety and health are included. Please see the TOTO Group website for more details. Financial and Non-Financial Data https://jp.toto.com/en/company/profile/library TOTO GROUP Integrated Report 2020 60 Corporate Information Corporate Profile (As of March 31, 2020)  Company Name TOTO LTD. Fiscal Year End March 31 Headquarters 1-1, Nakashima 2-chome, Exchange Listings Tokyo, Nagoya, Fukuoka Kokurakita-ku, Kitakyushu, Fukuoka, Securities Code 5332 Japan Shareholder Registry Mitsubishi UFJ Trust and Banking Establishment May 15, 1917 Administrator Corporation 4-5, Marunouchi 1-chome, Capital ¥35,579 million Chiyoda-ku, Tokyo, Japan Number of Employees Consolidated: 33,554 Non-consolidated: 8,169 Group Companies and Main Affiliates (As of April 1, 2020)  Domestic Group Companies  Overseas Group Companies  TOTO SANITECHNO LTD. The Americas TOTO WASHLET TECHNO LTD. TOTO AMERICAS HOLDINGS, INC. TOTO Bath Create LTD. TOTO U.S.A., Inc. TOTO High Living LTD. TOTO MEXICO, S.A. DE C.V. TOTO AQUATECHNO LTD. Europe SUNAQUA TOTO LTD. TOTO Europe GmbH TOTO PLATECHNO LTD. TOTO Germany GmbH TOTO Maintenance LTD. Asia TOTO AQUAENG LTD. TOTO (CHINA) CO., LTD. TOTO MTEC LTD. TOTO (BEIJING) Co., Ltd. TOTO Kansai Sales LTD. NANJING TOTO CO., LTD. TOTO Hokkaido Sales LTD. TOTO DALIAN CO., LTD. TOTO Tohoku Sales LTD. TOTO (SHANGHAI) CO., LTD. TOTO Chubu Sales LTD. TOTO EASTCHINA CO., LTD. TOTO Chugoku Sales LTD. TOTO (FUJIAN) CO., LTD. TOTO Shikoku Sales LTD. TOTO (GUANGZHOU) CO., LTD. TOTO Kyushu Sales LTD. TOTO (H.K.) LTD. CERA TRADING LTD. VORETO (XIAMEN) PLUMBING TECHNOLOGY CO., LTD. (Affiliate Company) TOTO Remodel Service LTD. TAIWAN TOTO CO., LTD. TOTO Finance LTD. TOTO ASIA OCEANIA PTE. LTD. TOTO INFOM LTD. TOTO VIETNAM CO., LTD. TOTO BUSINETZ LTD. TOTO (THAILAND) CO., LTD. TOTO LOGICOM LTD. TOTO India Industries Private Limited TOTO Fine Ceramics LTD. TOTO MALAYSIA SDN. BHD. TOTO MATERIA LTD. TOTO KOREA LTD. TOTO OKITSUMO Coatings LTD. P.T.SURYA TOTO INDONESIA Tbk. (Affiliate Company) 61 TOTO GROUP Integrated Report 2020 Notable Awards from 2019 Onward  Category Award Description Received the iF Design Award 2019 for the SMART TOILET NEOREST AH/RH, wall-hung Design RP toilet + WASHLET RX, and Lavatory faucet (single lever) GM series NEOREST AH/RH Received the Red Dot Design Award 2019 Design for the Lavatory faucet (single lever) GM series, ZA series, GE series, and GC series Lavatory faucet (single lever) ZA series Received the iF Design Award 2020 for the WASHLET RW/SW and the SP Wall-Hung Design Toilet + WASHLET SX, which are geared toward overseas markets WASHLET RW/SW SP Wall-Hung Toilet + WASHLET SX Received the Red Dot Design Award 2020 for the SMART TOILET NEOREST DH, WASHLET Instant-Type (for overseas), Wash basin TA Design (vessel type), Lavatory faucet (single lever) GB series, GF series, and FLOTATION TUB (Free standing bathtub) Lavatory faucet (single lever) Wash basin TA (vessel type) GF series Received the GREEN GOOD DESIGN AWARDS Environment 2020 for the wall-hung auto-flush urinal Auto-flush urinal (wall-hung) Microwave sensor wall-hung urinal set (with target mark) Received recognition as FY2020 architectural facility technology heritage for the SMART TOILET Product NEOREST EX (TOTO History Museum) from the Japanese Association of Building Mechanical and Electrical Engineers NEOREST EX Received FY2020 Intellectual Property Achievement Award at the Ministry of Economy, Management Trade and Industry Awards (Design-Based Management) Independent Assurance To ensure the reliability of information contained in this report, TOTO has received independent assurance for environmental and social data indicated within the TOTO GROUP Integrated Report 2020 Financial and NonFinancial Data on its website. Financial and Non-Financial Data https://jp.toto.com/en/company/profile/library TOTO GROUP Integrated Report 2020 62 TOTO LTD. TOTO LTD. 1-1, Nakashima2-chome, 1-1, Nakashima 2-chome, Kokurakita-ku, Kokurakita-ku, Kitakyushu, Kitakyushu, Fukuoka, 802-8601, Japan Fukuoka, Japan URL: https://www.toto.com https://www.toto.com Published Published in August 2020 2018 in September No.1190 No.1 190
