TABLE OF CONTENTS Industry 4.0.…………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………..2 About Ekol……………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………..3 Ekol and Management Systems……………………………………………………….………………………………………….15 Most valuable entities which are not shown in our financial statements; Our Employees…………18 Ekol and Social Responsibility………………………………………………………….………………………………………….29 Ensure that new generations grow to be more socially conscious and well-equipped individuals …………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………….30 Achieve sustainable growth by developing environmentally-sustainable projects and business processes…………………………………………………………………….……………………………………………………………….41 Ekol Volunteers Day……………………………………………………………………………………………………………………. Ekol and NGO Cooperations…………………………………………………………………………………………………………52 Global Principles Compact…………………………………………………………………………………………………………..58 GRI Indicators Contents…………………………………………….…………………………………………………………………59 1 Industry 4.0. Industry 4.0 is a human-focused era equipped with information technologies. It is a smart world in which intelligent factories can self-manage production processes. Robots communicate with each other, perceive the environment with sensors, and detect needs by analyzing data. As a consequence, the production model is more efficient, faster, and more efficient with higher quality output. Industry 4.0 also offers endless opportunities for the logistics industry, which carries out every process, from the first manufacturer to the final consumer. There is a transformation in the seven rights of logistics: supplying the right product with the right amount, in the right way, at the right time, from the right source, on the right path, with the right price. As an integrated logistics company operating in its own facilities in 13 countries in the fields of transportation, contract logistics, intermodal, foreign trade, customs, and supply chain management, our approach to operational excellence is inspired by Industry 4.0, bringing an eradefining perspective to the industry. As Ekol, we believe in continuous and dynamic transformation to achieve more in the age of Industry 4.0. We are ready not only to change the future of our industry, but also to transform the world by 2 integrating mind, heart and consciousness through our business practices comprising our experience and know-how. We will radically change the traditional business model with our Logistics 4.0 strategy and will offer INTEGRATED, FLEXIBLE, and EFFICIENT solutions to you, to our customers, who always deserve the best. We will use our cutting-edge technology and excellent service to provide advanced solutions. Thanks to our commitment to ethical values and sustainability, we will also create environmental, financial, and social benefits. Most importantly, we will create value with you. Ahmet Musul Chairman of the Board of Directors of Ekol Logistics About Ekol Ekol, an integrated logistics company founded in 1990, provides best-in-class international freight, warehousing, domestic distribution, foreign trade, customs, and supply chain management services in 13 countries. Ekol’s business model is bolstered by technological inspiration which blends mind, heart and consciousness while constantly offering customers integrated, interconnected and innovative solutions. Ekol is always one step ahead and it never settles for good enough. This boosts our customers' accomplishments and creates environmental, financial, and social benefits. Ekol is one of Europe's major logistics providers, boasting distribution centers with 1,000,000 square meters of total indoor space in Turkey, Germany, Italy, Greece, France, Ukraine, Romania, Hungary, 3 Spain, Poland, Czechia, Slovenia and Sweden in addition to allowing for Intermodal transportation with 52 block trains per week and 6,000 vehicles. In fulfilling its promises, Ekol derives greatest strength from its workforce and its powerful distribution network. A multinational team of more than 8,000 staff members wholly dedicated to delivering impeccable customer satisfaction plays a vital role in Ekol’s success story. Our Values HI-TECH 4 We do more than just invest in technology. We trust that technology is Ekol’s most essential enabler. For us, technology lights our path rather than being a necessity to which change guides and leads. This approach, in conjunction with our tailored and innovative solutions, inspires the entire logistics community. INNOVATIVE For us, imagination is a true “treasure” and the method, with which you preserve this source, is crucial. All new and fresh initiatives contribute spirit to our imagination. We appetite for novel, value-add initiatives creating competitiveness and generating new opportunities for our customers. ENTREPRENEURIAL Exploring new ideas and integrating creativity throughout every business process is fundamental to our success. This may be a brand-new solution, product, or service. Our desire for original perspectives and bold initiatives strengthens not only us but also our customers. CAN-DO-CULTURE We are confident and shall never give up when faced with challenges. We owe our business success to working efficiently and our strong will to achieve all. As a team with our high motivation, passion and positive attitude, we can implement the most ideal solutions for our customers. HUMANIST-CULTURE We show empathy in our interactions with individuals our customers, colleagues and the world at large. Our people are our most precious building-block in value creation and goal accomplishment. We believe that sincerity is a golden key to open any door, and we are fortunate to be in possession of it. RESPONSIBLE Our customers come first. We hold great respect for our customers and their achievements. This respect also extends to the environment, and the society. Ethical values are essential for us. As 5 responsible citizens, we are accountable for our actions and we are well-aware of the fact that this is the only path to a sustainable future for everyone. Our Manifesto Being “good enough” has never been sufficient for us. Our belief in continuous and dynamic transformation guides us to growth and development every day. We are aware of the fact that any other means cannot lead to success. We bring a new perspective to the logistics industry by integrating mind, heart and consciousness through our business practices comprising our experience and know-how. We continue to inspire our industry by engaging cutting-edge technology to offer advanced solutions to our customers alongside our understanding of excellent service. For us, people come first. We do forge ahead determined through the strength of our people so that we are able to understand each other more efficiently, protect our common values, and meet our goals. Believing that our customers deserve the best, we provide each and every one with excellent service in all that we do. At the forefront of our minds is the fact that success of our customers is our own success. We carry out novel ideas with our positive attitude, allowing us to overcome any challenge and become stronger with every advance. We know there is no obstacle we cannot overcome if we work hard with passion. Our intimate commitment to ethical values and sustainability not only guides us to change the future of the logistics industry, but also to transform the world. 6 Milestones ❖ Ekol Logistics was established in 1990 and served in international land transportation until 1993. ❖ In 1994, the company made the biggest one-time fleet investment in Turkey and expanded its service network with the addition of air and sea transportation and customs clearance services. That was the first step in the way to becoming a complete logistics services supplier. ❖ In 1996, the company opened its first foreign branch office in Germany. ❖ Ekol began to serve in the field of contract logistics with the Kardelen and Orkide Logistics Centers established respectively in. 1997 and 2001. 7 ❖ In 2002, the company leaped forward with the acquisition of the most important forwarding company of the time, Unok/Unatsan. Realizing a first in the industry, Ekol also founded Process Development Department where only industrial engineers are employed. ❖ In the period 2002-2010, the company opened a stream of warehousing and distribution centres in almost all parts of Turkey to create its existing service network, and now renders its services at 26 locations in Turkey and Europe. ❖ In 2003, Ekol introduced another achievement in its industry thanks to its robust technology infrastructure, and began to use its quadro™ software which was designed in-house to accelerate operation of logistics processes and bring transparency to the customers. Furthermore, SAP was put to active commission. ❖ Within this perspective, in 2007, a Management Systems Development Group was established to introduce integrated management systems, and to develop integrated systems with its R&D team. ❖ In 2008, Ekol began the first Block Train service between Trieste and Ludwigshafen terminal. ❖ End of 2009 saw Ekol gaining another strength by joining forces with a minor partner, Invest AD of Abu Dhabi. ❖ In December 2010, Ekol acquired a leading Scandinavian forwarder, STS International Transport, to achieve industry leadership in that route also. ❖ With a quick start in 2011, Ekol opened Ekol Italy. The last quarter of the year saw an acquisition in Romania, registering a 300% growth in the Eastern Europe Line, and establishing Ekol Romania. With a substantial focus on Medical Logistics, Ekol opened the largest pharmaceutical distribution warehouse of Turkey in Tuzla Logipark Campus. 8 ❖ In 2012, Ekol was granted the Europe Eco Performance Award. It established the first and only R&D Centre in the logistics sector in Turkey. New facilities were established in 4 different locations in Europe (France, Bosnia, Greece and Ukraine). Ekol was the winner of the ETIKA 2012 Turkey’s Ethics Award granted by Ethical Values Center Association (EDMER). ❖ Ro-Ro trips started in 2013, Ekol Logistics was awarded with AEO certificate (Authorized Economic Operator) by the Ministry of Customs and Trade, making export operations easier. Ekol’s Hungary and Spain branches were founded and the number of European countries in which Ekol Logistics operates reached nine in 2013. Ekol Logistics was awarded with Green Office Diploma by the World Wildlife Fund Turkey the very same year. ❖ By opening Spain Branch in 2014, organization of European market was expanded. Ro-Ro transportation between İzmir and Sete port was started with the new Ro-Ro vessel called AYSHE. Once again, Ekol was awarded with ETİKA 2013 Turkey's Most Ethical Companies prize given by EDMER. It became the first company obtaining ''Sustainable Logistics Document'' which is developed by UTİKAD and Bureau Veritas cooperation in Turkey as world pioneers. In the Capital 500 Most Admired Companies Research, which was organized with participation of 1,620 middle and senior managers from 650 different companies, Ekol was chosen Turkey's Most Admired Logistics Company. ❖ 2015 Ekol celebrated our 25th anniversary. Ekol continued to invest in Europe by launching Ekol Poland. Customs clearance services were started at the Novara Facility with Ekol Italy. The fifth Ro-Ro Fadiq was added to the fleet. ❖ 2016 Ekol continued to make new investments by launching Ekol Bulgaria. The sixth Ro-Ro ship MELEQ was commissioned. Ekol has taken an important step for sea transport operations to and from the United States, by being licensed as a Non-Vessel Operating Common Carrier (NVOCC). 9 Ekol began offering direct service between Verona, Italy and Sosnowiec, Poland via a new train route. The new Intermodal route between Trieste and Novara was launched. The Konya facility was included in the Integrated Management Systems. ❖ In 2017 Logistics 4.0 Journey Begins. Ekol revamps its brand identity with a milestone transformation to mark its 27-year journey. Ekol Slovenia opens. Ekol introduces Finished Vehicle Logistics services to customers. A new unit train route was added between Budapest and Cologne. A unit train service was launched between Zeebrugge, Belgium and Trieste, Italy. FADIQ, MELEQ’s sister Ro-Ro, launched in Flensburg, Germany. Fleet’s existing charter Ro-Ro FADIQ was renamed QUBRA. Ekol launches the Yalova Ro-Ro Terminal for industry use. Ekol Turkey becomes the first-ever service industry company to be included in Turquality, the biggest program developed by the Republic of Turkey’s Ministry of Economy, to increase its exports. ❖ In 2018 Ekol Sweden opened and launched its Swedish operations under Ekol Nordics. Commissioned in 2017, the ro-ro vessel FADIQ set sail on its first voyage from Yalova Ro-Ro Terminal to Trieste, Italy. Regular ro-ro ferries became operational between Lavrio, Greece and Sète, France. Ekol Hungary signed a lease agreement with Budapest Airport Zrt. Ekol added 150 ecoand driver-friendly Mercedes-Benz Actros 1845 LSnRL 4X2 Model heavy-duty trucks, equipped with the state-of-the-art Euro 6 engines, to its fleet. Ekol’s position as Europe’s fastestgrowing logistics company and the methods it employs to improve productivity have turned the company into a case study for Harvard Business School students. ❖ 2019 Ekol’s Lotus Facility got certified to TAPA FSR A. Ekol signed a wide-reaching agreement with the Italian market leader UBV Group. Ekol Spain got certified to the Environment Management System. Ekol ranked fourth among the road freight transport providers in Hungary. 10 Major Awards ❖ 2019 – Ekol won an award in the Carbon Management category for its intermodal transport model at the Sustainable Business Awards 2019, organized by the Sustainability Academy. ❖ 2019 – Ekol won gold in The International Public Relations Association’s (IPRA) Golden World Awards for Excellence, which is considered the “Oscars” of the public relations world. ❖ 2019 – The Smart Algorithms in the Intermodal Network Planning Operations project, executed by the Optimization Unit of our R&D Center, won the IDC Turkey Digital Transformation Award. ❖ 2019 – Ekol climbed 12 places in this year’s Fortune 500 list and ranked 85th. ❖ 2019 – Ekol won the first rank in the “Freight Transportation and Logistics Services” category of Turkey’s 500 Largest Exporter of Services awards. ❖ 2018 – Ekol was awarded the EMEA Region’s Best Intermodal Transportation Company at the Road and Rail Transport award ceremony hosted by International Transport News. ❖ 2018 – Ekol Greece received the Innovation in Transport award at the Supply Chain Awards 2018, with Ekol’s intermodal network. 11 ❖ 2018 – Ekol was named Europe’s Most Outstanding Integrated Logistics Provider of 2018 at the Corporate Excellence Awards. ❖ 2017 – Ekol rises to the Logistics industry’s top spot in the Capital 500 Turkey List, surpassing its runner-up position from the year before. It also reached #117 in the overall ranking. ❖ 2017 – Ekol captures the #2 spot in Logistics in the Fortune 500 Turkey List. It also rises to #101, up from #107 year-on-year, in the overall ranking. ❖ 2017 – Ekol takes the #3 spot in the Transport and Logistic Services Category in Turkey’s Top 500 Service Exporters Study by the Turkish Exporters Assembly (TIM). It also reached #16 in the overall ranking. ❖ 2017 – Ekol Greece wins the Gold Medal in the Freight Transportation and Freight Forwarding Category in the 2017 Transport and Logistics Awards in Athens. ❖ 2017 – Ekol Spain becomes a European Business Awards Finalist, making it a Ruban d’Honneur candidate in the Growth Strategy Elite Award Category of the 2016/17 European Business Awards. ❖ 2017 – Ekol Turkey’s Human Resources Recruitment Team receives the Respect to Human award for the third time. ❖ 2017 – Ekol wins the Best Road and Rail Freight Provider EMEA award. ❖ 2017 – Ekol receives the Best Logistics Company of the Year award from Istanbul Gelişim University students. ❖ 2017 – Ekol Hungary takes the prestigious Superbrand accolade. 12 ❖ 2017 – Ekol Poland receives the Best Road and Rail Freight Provider award at the 2017 Global Excellence Awards. ❖ 2017 – Ekol Italy wins the Operator of the Year award. ❖ 2017 – Ekol is awarded the Effective Service Award by loyal customer Nitto. This award is in recognition of Ekol’s consistently timely deliveries. Ekol handles Nitto’s import and export operations from Belgium and import transportation from England. ❖ 2017 – Ekol Poland was named the Best Integrated Logistics Services Provider in a Data Group Consulting study. ❖ 2016Ekol was recognized by the Turkish Exporters’ Assembly (TIM) with a “Turkey’s 500 Large Service Exporters” award. ❖ 2016Ekol Spain has been named National Champion in the European Business Awards. ❖ 2016 – Won the award for the largest increase in the number of female employees in the Women-Friendly Companies Award Ceremony. ❖ 2016 – Ranked among the top 100 on this year's The Most Valuable Brands of Turkey list, released by Brand Finance, an international company specializing in brand valuation. ❖ 2016 – Chosen The Logistics Company of the Year in the 2016 Achievement in Logistics Awards. ❖ 2016 – Became the Turkey Finalists at the European Business Awards for the Environment with the Intermodal. 13 ❖ 2015 – Ekol once again named Turkey's most admired logistics company by Capital magazine's “Turkey’s Most Admired Companies Survey 2015.” ❖ 2015 – Ekol won a Special Jury award at the first TEGEP Learning and Development Awards thanks to our Hezarfen Vocational and Technical High School project. ❖ 2015 – Ekol recognized as the Best 3PL for Automotive Supply Chains and the Best 3PL for Consumer Goods Supply Chains by customer vote at eft's European Customer Choice Awards. ❖ 2014 – With it's Sustainability and Environmental Management System Practices, Ekol became the first Turkish finalist logistics company in European Environmental Rewards. ❖ 2014 – Ekol became one of the national champions in European Business Rewards. ❖ It was granted with “The Most Ethical Companies 2012 and 2013 of Turkey” award in 2013 – 2014 by the Center of Ethical Values Association (EDMER) for two years in a row. ❖ 2012 – Thanks to its economic success, and environment and social responsibility projects, Ekol was granted the European Eco Performance Award 2012 by St. Gallen University on the basis of an assessment of companies' environmental awareness in their economic business models. ❖ 2012 – In World Logistics Success Rewards given by Dünya newspaper in five categories, Ekol was awarded with prizes in categories ''Storage'', ''Intermodal Transportation'' and ''Most Successful Logistics Company''. ❖ 2011 – Ekol Logistics received “Business Partner Excellence Award” in the Logistics Field granted by Procter & Gamble every year to its strategic partners worldwide thanks to its strategic innovations and investments. 14 ❖ 2011 In the 4th International Logistics Conference held jointly by the Logistics Association (LODER) and Mersin Chamber of Industry and Commerce (MTSO), Ekol Logistics won the enterprise achievement award in the National Logistics Project Contest, with its intermodal project. ❖ 2011 – Ekol became the only firm in Turkey to purchase and lease to firms the packages used for production and shipment of EPAL licensed automotive and automotive supply industry products produced in Turkey, thanks to the certificate received from EPAL (European Pallet Association). ❖ 2011 – Ekol's German Branch received the AEO (Authorised Economic Operator) Certificate which will enable it to complete customs operations even more quickly within the borders of the EU. A status serving to prove compliance of the supply chain, AEO makes the certified firms' life easier in international trade. Certified operators are assumed to be reliable and compliant, and are able to utilize facilities which help faster access through security and protection related controls in EU countries, as well as simplifications in relevant customs regulations. ❖ 2008 Ekol is now a SAP Global Success Story. The same year saw Ekol as the first Turkish firm to make a presentation in the Global Success Stories category in the global Sapphire event. ❖ 2008 – Ekol's intermodal project awarded by European Union project Cream. ❖ 2008 – Ekol's projects were among the finalists in the ‘Logistics&Fulfilment’ and ‘Environmental Improvements’ categories in European Supply Chain Excellence Awards. ❖ 2008 Ekol realized one of the first 10 applications globally for SAP version CRM2007S. 15 Logistics 4.0. and R&D Industry 4.0 incorporates improvements for each line of business within the logistics industry. These enhancements include cost-effective smart warehouses with flexible design and software systems, enabling real-time tracking and intervention. Their infrastructures will be adapted for new technologies, facilitating effective supply chain management. Structures able to eliminate security vulnerabilities will also be offered, with the potential to monitor and control environmental factors while enabling data-based decisions to be taken within each service network. In view of the above, Ekol will shift its skills and resources into Logistics 4.0. In light of Industry 4.0 developments, Ekol is turning data into meaningful information by making objects detectable, carrying out research on self-determining technologies, and conducting pilot projects. In line with the strategy of applying the principles of Industry 4.0, Ekol’s R&D focus has put “Logistics 4.0” at its center through digitalization and visualization, process integration via the internet and mobile applications, the creation of networks between objects, cloud computing and communications technologies, and simulation and robotic systems. Ekol carries out R&D activities in conjunction with universities and other institutions in a range of fields, such as fleet optimization and route planning, load and network improvements with 3D loading models, business model development for warehouse management, delivery and delivery, automation systems design, flexible order preparation and packaging processes, order management software, demand management system design, and transportation alternatives. 16 Ekol and Management Systems: ❖ After receiving ISO 9001:2000 Quality Management System certificate in 2004, Ekol established in 2005 OHSAS 18001 Occupational Health and Safety system. ❖ As of 2010, Ekol moved on to ISO 9001:2008, and was the first logistics firm to certificate Design in the industry. The move to Integrated Management System was completed with the establishment of ISO 14001 Environment Management System. ❖ The bonded warehouse compliant with ISO 22000 Food Safety Management System, a first in Turkey, allows Ekol Logistics to meet customer requirements, and develop and commission new systems. ❖ With the most comprehensive Quality Management System in the industry, Ekol Logistics pioneered R&D activities through its custom solutions tailored for its customers. ❖ In 2011, Ekol was able to extend the scope of ISO 14001 Environment Management System, receiving certification for its all 3 large facilities. 17 ❖ In 2011, Ekol Logistics decided to undergo Safety Quality Assessment (SQAS) organized by the European Chemical Industry Council (CEFIC), with respect to International Road Transportation, and was able to pass the assessment in February 2012. By underlining the significance it attaches to Health, Safety, Environment, Security, and Quality in its services offered to Chemical Industry, it trained the drivers assigned to international transportation operations accordingly. ❖ In 2019, Ekol successfully passed the ISO 9001:2015 & ISO 14001:2015 transition audits with no nonconforming outputs and the Safety & Quality Assessment System (SQAS) score of 96 percent; it also completed and maintained its transition to these management systems. ❖ In 2010, Ekol received the ISO 10002:2004 certificate for its Customer Complaints’ Handling Customer Satisfaction system based on the “We Are Listening” concept that transforms customer feedback to corporate values. Then, we established the Customer Sustainability Unit to merit the ISO 10002:2014 version in 2017; this certificate stands for the assessment of all internal and external shareholder feedback. ❖ Customer satisfaction assessment at Ekol Logistics is executed by independent organizations and Ekol takes necessary follow-up actions. ❖ In order to prove our carbon dioxide reports which we regularly send to our customers, and our greenhouse gas inventory related to all locations and activities of Ekol Logistics, which have a significant effect on our winning of the Eco Performance Award; a project has been commenced within the scope of the ISO 14064-1 Quantification and Reporting of Greenhouse Gas Emissions at the Organization Level standard. A project team was launched for a project by the Management Systems Development and Process Development departments. Team training was completed at 126 person/hour rate. Project activities began in the last quarter of 2012, and field supervisions were completed in February 2013 as part of the project plan. Ekol Lojistik A.Ş. The Greenhouse Gas Inventory Report has been published.Ekol corporate website shares the current emission and diesel emission reduction amounts. 18 ❖ Improvement activities are carried on uninterruptedly in order to provide all stakeholders with more efficient, fast, reliable and quality service. In this regard, works have begun to be the first company to apply for the AEO Program entered into force in 2013 by T.R. Ministry of Customs and Trade, and to become entitled to receive certification. ❖ Ekol implements the ISO 27001:2013 Information Security Management System. The most crucial principal of this system is the security, integrity, and accessibility of the processed, safeguarded, and managed information and information assets stemming from Ekol, as well as the legal and contractual obligations. ❖ The Ekol Logistics Lotus Facility has qualified to receive the Transported Asset Protection Association (TAPA) Freight Security Requirements (FSR) Class A certificate, which is considered the most prestigious certificate in the global platform because of its high-security standard requirements. The Lotus Facility of Ekol has, subsequently, become the largest warehouse with a TAPA certification in the Europe, the Middle East and Africa (EMEA) region. ❖ Lotus, which has already been certified to ISO 9001, ISO 14001, OHSAS 18001, and LEED, is preparing for a new energy investment in the facility while it has recertified its service quality with the TAPA certification in 2019. The solar panel investment on a 35,000-square-meter area will allow Lotus to self-generate half of its electricity needs. ❖ Ekol staged theater performances with an Occupational Health and Safety theme for its colleagues to enjoy and learn in 2015 and 2016. ❖ In addition, Ekol completed the auditing of additional management systems, such as URSA, Sedex, Ecovadis, NQC, GQE and Achilles, especially requested by Ekol customers over the years and transparently published findings on relevant platforms. 19 ❖ As a pioneering company in its sector, Ekol was selected in 2017 to be the first logistics company to be included in the Turquality Brand Development Program. As part of Turquality, the world’s first and only state-sponsored brand-building program, Ekol will fly the Turkish flag proudly in global markets and further strengthen its financial sustainability. ❖ With a view to strengthen industrial experience and as part of the Health Operations in compliance with the GDP & GSP standards, the ISO 13485:2016 Medical Devices Quality Management System was implemented and certified in 2019 at Ekol’s Lotus Facility. ❖ Boasting the most comprehensive Integrated Management System in the industry, Ekol Logistics adopts the United Nations Sustainable Development Goals. In 2015, Ekol harmonized its corporate sustainability activities with the three-axis (Economy, Society, and Environment) approach. ❖ Ekol launched its OHS Bulletins in 2018. We distribute these newsletters on various topics, including health, safety, and first-aid, through internal mailing and post visuals on bulletin boards in warehouses. ❖ Within the scope of OHS, Ekol furnished all its facilities with first-aid posters and organized various health-related seminars to the employees in 2019. ❖ As required by the HSE legislation, Ekol started to receive services from OSGB at Ekol as of June 2013 and appointed 36 Health and Safety personnel, 31 physicians, and five health care personnel across Turkey in 2019. Most valuable entities which are not shown in our financial statements; OUR EMPLOYEES 20 Ekol Logistics adopts a people-oriented approach in various projects to enhance and implement certain standards and frameworks in working conditions. In addition, we support sustainable projects to protect the social rights of our employees and organize various social activities to enable more efficient communication platforms. Following its vision to become the multinational employer brand of choice, Ekol established ONE EKOL to strengthen its corporate culture. We gathered our employees in all corners of the world, from Turkey to Czech Republic, around the We Are One Together motto. Human Resources Strategy: Ekol Logisticsemploys over 8,000 Ekol team members of different competencies, experience, nationalities, and language in its facilities spread over 13 countries. These 8,000 employees and their families bring together a large family of 30,000 people in Ekol. Our three-year Human Resources roadmap aims to create a management approach that will swiftly adapt to market dynamics and client expectations in compliance with corporate strategies. Our primary priority is to be people-oriented in all our designs and practices. We not only aim for harmonized and integrated HR systems but also pursue a shared goal in compliance with the corporate goals and strategy. We encourage a more agile, simpler, and integrated business model for our employees to create a strong approach that supports innovation and employee engagement. 21 Our Introduction to Our Values and Leadership program welcomes all Ekol team members from all levels to strengthen the Ekol family bonds and train future leaders. Integration of selected values with the performance system and their encouragement with recognition events is among the priority projects in 2020. In line with this strategy, objectives of Ekol are; ❖ Establishing international strategic human resources mentality, increasing employees' satisfaction and loyalty. ❖ Employing and maintaining correct employees with the objective of becoming the best place to work for. ❖ Implement a working culture that describes the competencies for various titles and positions ❖ Making possible that objectives which are expected from employees are stated openly and clearly, that individual achievements are measured objectively and rewarded duly, in order to increase corporations performance and make it sustainable. ❖ The establishment of career and back-up systems serves to assign correct individuals in the corporation to the correct positions, at the correct time. ❖ Ensuring that employees working with a salary system are rewarded in a realistic and fair way so that employees performing work at requested quality level are kept in the organization. ❖ Establish a remuneration and reward system to award employee responsibilities and performance to support corporate strategies and culture ❖ Monitoring Employee's Satisfaction and Loyalty as an indicator, determining strong and open to improvement areas, taking right steps to maintain strong ones and improve other ones. Helping to adopt corporate change culture by managing human resources within Ekol ideally, in order to realize organizational objectives and critical success factors. Ekol respects its employees' union and collective contract rights. 22 Ekol believes that rational solutions as key to sustainable success and effective resource utilization can only be produced with qualified and happy human resources and therefore investing in employees in a sustainable sense. Each employee has an employment contract containing the terms of service and job descriptions are defined in the contacts. Specifying the conditions regarding the termination of employment in the Operational Procedure for Discipline Regulation , Ekol clearly states that purchases, receiving gifts, goods, or cash, or any benefits from legal or natural persons with which the company deals with would constitute grounds for termination of employment, within the framework of the efforts to fight against corruption. In order to create a more transparent and fair working order, Ekol has founded the Ethic Board which is a fully entitled organization. In order to adopt ethical values that are practiced during business processes, Ekol has published Ekol Regulation on Corporate Principles in 2012. The regulation emphasizes the main topics of Protecting Social Benefits, Compliance to Laws and Other Regulations, Protecting Worker Rights and Working Conditions, Efficiency of Business Partners and Social Stakeholder Communication, Protecting Company Rights, and Transparency. Ekol has never been accused of forced labor or named with this issue. Besides this, compliance with the legal requirements concerning employee rights, confidentiality principle, equal benefits for employees, safety, security, and health had always been important parts of its Human Resources Policies. Ekol stands against any discrimination based on race, color, gender, religion, political view, nationality, marital status etc., and acts in line with established procedures. In March 2009, Ekol signed the Declaration for Management as a Women's Right sponsored by KalDer, underlining the importance it attaches to gender equality. Employee distribution in years 2009 –2013: 23 Female Staff / Total Staff Count 2009 2010 2011 2012 2013 Number of Male Employees 2480 2888 4229 5366 4231 Number of Female Employees 389 431 798 1425 1314 Rate of Female Employees 13.55% 12.98% 15.87% 20.98% 23.69% Employee distribution in years 2014-2019: Female Staff / Total 2014 2015 2016 2017 2018 2019 Staff Count Medium Medium Medium Medium Medium Medium Number of Male 4.550 4.638 4.764 3463 4205 4.723 Employees 24 Number of Female 843 880 934 719 835 954 Employees Rate of Female 15,6% 12,1% 11,9% 17.2% 16.6% 17,00% Employees Number of Foreign 1.601 1.711 2.162 963 1.170 2.040 Employees Total 5145 6.210 5.393 7.229 7.860 7.717 Talent Acquisition Process: In compliance with the One Ekol corporate culture and values, the Talent Acquisition process seeks four fundamental competencies for all positions: These are: customer-focused; passion; confidence; and people-oriented. Ekol talent acquisition aims to gain new recruits to vacant positions as determined during the annual HR planning at the beginning of the year. The new recruits are to comply with Ekol corporate strategy, goals, culture, and values and offer added value, specific knowledge, skills, and competencies to their position. 25 Talent acquisition process includes the determination of personnel requirement, management of the application process, preliminary assessment, selection, approval, placement, and monitoring. Qualities and competencies for each position are determined and candidates are reviewed according to these criteria. Within the scope of its vision to become the employer brand of choice for candidates, Ekol implements various talent acquisition tools, including competency-based interviews, personality inventory, general aptitude test, assessment center practices, foreign language examination, and reference checks, as required by the applied position. When changing conditions and needs necessitate, appropriate talent acquisition practices can be conducted through online platforms. Ekol believes that human rights are an absolute and universal standard. Company acknowledges the Human Rights of the United Nations and the Universal Declaration of Children's Rights Convention. Ekol doesn't employ child workers and doesn't support employment of children. Organization remains committed to equal opportunity in the workplace; stands against any kind of racist / discriminatory approach based on fundamentals like religion, language, race, ethnicity, disability, gender, marital status, relationship and age. Performance Management System: The primary purpose of the individual performance management system is to spread Ekol values and strategies to all employees. It further aims to attain high performance within Ekol and offer continuous education and improvement opportunities to its employees as needed. 26 Individual performance not only includes the attainment of annual business outputs by the employees but also behavioral compliance with corporate values. Thus, performance management at Ekol considers both the attainment of business goals and the behavioral assessment. Individual performance assessment determines personalized education and enhancement requirements in compliance with corporate priorities. Furthermore, the findings guide career and rotation decisions. Competency Evaluation System: This system is used for various areas including Competencies, Recruitment, Organizational Change, Identifying Potential & Development Planning, Back-Up Planning and Position Change. Scholarships and Charity Facilities: Ekol Logistics provides employees' children studying in primary and secondary degree schools with scholarship and charity facilities. In addition to providing scholarships to students successful in OKS, all students are provided school supplies and clothing assistance. Education Aid Year Numb. of Person Total Figure 2007 500 63.000 2008 550 70.000 2009 550 70.126 27 2010 745 95.433 2011 800 120.000 2012 1.504 225.600 2013 1.760 264.000 2014 2.003 300.450 2015 2,070 300,450 2016 2,200 385,00 2017 2,281 456,200 2018 2.306 403.550 2019 2,378 594,500 Carrier Management: The output of the performance assessment system helps draw the career track of the person, taking into consideration the training requirements, training results and the factor of meeting the requirements of the position. The employees who achieve high scores with respect to all these criteria are included in the skill pool. These employees are trained for and progress toward becoming the future directors of Ekol. Employer Brand: ❖ We organize various activities throughout the year to augment employee engagement and motivation. ❖ To create a wholesome Ekol spirit, we offered New Year’s gifts to all employees and held a live broadcast raffle to award over 150 employees a broad range of products ranging from washing machines to televisions. 28 ❖ We organized breakfasts at our 32 facilities with over 5,000 Ekol employees to break bread with the senior management. ❖ Our chairman Ahmet Musul participated in the iftar dinner thrown at our LEED-certified Lotus Facility, the largest warehouse in Europe. His participation motivated a more equitable and fairer environment by setting an example. ❖ In addition, we send gift baskets to new mothers in Ekol to remind our employees that we stand with them through every path of their lives. Besides, we welcome Tiny Members of Ekol in our biweekly newsletters sent out on Fridays. ❖ Corroborating our sustainability principal, we hand out eco-friendly welcome aboard packs to our newly recruited colleagues. The welcome aboard pack comprises entirely recyclable products. ❖ Moreover, we send biweekly Our New Colleagues newsletters to welcome our new friends. Furthermore, we hang +1 banners above the desks of new members in the Ekol white collar team to help them feel a part of the family. These banners also ensure faster recognition of new recruits among the team to offer sincere welcome wishes. ❖ We also install Nursing Rooms in our facilities for nursing mothers. We create comfortable, peaceful spaces for new mothers to help them see comfortably and smoothly through the nursing period, which often creates issues in women’s employment and the postnatal work experience. ❖ In Turkey and abroad, we published a weekly bulletin in English and Turkish called “Bizden Haberler” (News from Us) to enhance internal communication and keep all our colleagues informed about company-wide developments. ❖ We organized sports activities within the company to nurture team spirit and foster social activities. We participated in corporate volleyball and basketball tournaments and organized similar games at our company. ❖ While augmenting corporate team spirit, we did not neglect the younger generation and launched our basketball training course for the Children of Ekol aged 8-14 years. Thus, we are contributing to a healthy new generation. ❖ Every two months, we host academicians, global leaders, and outstanding personalities in the corporate world in our Ekol Talks seminars to stimulate personal improvement among the Ekol 29 team. So far, our guest list included Levent Erden, an academician, and the Mavi CEO Cüneyt Yavuz. The TEMA Foundation gifted a sapling to each speaker at the closing ceremony of each seminar. ❖ Our other seminars include the “Parenting in the Digital Era” for the blue collar team and the “What Do We Do with the Donations at the Association for Supporting Contemporary Life” organized for the International Women’s Day. ❖ We published a Bi’Mola (Mini-Break) article series encouraging our colleagues to take relaxing short breaks during the busy schedule. As part of this project, we disseminated numerous contents providing information on culture, art, family, and hobbies, and improved general knowledge within the company every Friday through in-house communication channels. ❖ We noted an upsurge in company recognition and employee interest through employer brand projects. ❖ Within the logistics industry, Ekol is the leading company in terms of strong brand recognition and number of followers on LinkedIn. ❖ We provided specially prepared hygiene kits and towels to our drivers to remind them of our support during their long routes. ❖ All corporate Ekol members were offered to experience the Alcohol Impairment Simulation Goggle to underline the gravity of driving under influence. We regard this as a matter of social responsibility and, thus, provided the same simulation experience to students at the universities we recently visited. ❖ We collaborated with several NGOs to organize and support various events at different facilities. ❖ In addition, we celebrate the birthdays of all Ekol team members with personalized videos and grant them a floating day off to be used anytime during the year. ❖ On the occasion of the International Day of Friendship, we held a photography contest with gift card awards on our social media accounts to underline our We Are One Together motto and strengthen friendships and motivation in the Ekol team. 30 Training and Improvement: Training and Improvement activities are carried out in line with our corporate strategy, objectives, priorities and values and performance goals and improvement activities of Ekol employees. By determining training requirements, training plans are prepared and necessary organizations are made to conduct trainings. Training and Improvement are aiming at the ability of all Ekol employees that they are doing their job correctly, that they can think multi directional, innovative, and becoming the best in their jobs creating added value, developing their professions and competency in line with their responsibilities and personal skills. So, it is provided that employee satisfaction/loyalty is increased, quality awareness is made perfect, employees' performance, operational efficiency and productivity are increased. Training programs, subjects and contents are determined in line with educational and development needs, also surveys carried out in line with company's corporate strategy, goals and values, workshops, negotiations with employees and managers, improvement fields set by employees by themselves, and recommendations of managers are considered, too. In Ekol, beside education for white collar workers, also a great importance is given to trainings for blue-collar workers and financial resources are allocated to these. The trainings received by our blue collar workers throughout the year can be categorized under the titles personal development, quality management systems, occupational health and safety, environment management systems, and technical and professional training. Training programs approved by the Ministry of National Education and Vocational Training Center with the aim of certifying professional development of warehouse employees are continuing. 31 Within the scope of the orientation program, all new drivers starting to work for Ekol receive training from driving instructors, Occupational Health and Safety Specialists and Occupational Workplace Physician. Besides Ekol's sensibility to the environment, ensuring that drivers take necessary information on consuming minimum amounts of fuel in order to use resources efficiently and reduce costs, contribution to drivers' professional developments are among most important objectives. In addition to this, Defensive Driving and Fatigue Fighting training for drivers continue. Driver Trainings per Year: ❖ 2007: 378 hours training / 90 drivers / 2802 person-hours ❖ 2008: 280 hours training / 110 drivers / 2,792 person-hours ❖ 2009: 440 hours training / 572 drivers / 3,288 person-hours ❖ 2010: 416 hours training / 160 drivers / 1,728 person-hours ❖ 2011: 150 hours training / 260 drivers / 1,620 person-hours ❖ 2012: 218 hours training / 307 drivers / 2,077 person-hours ❖ 2013: 519 hours training / 781 drivers / 4,115 person-hours ❖ 2014: 529 hours training / 940 drivers / 4,970 person-hours ❖ 2015: 528 hours training / 475 drivers / 4.582 person-hours ❖ 2016: 928 hours training / 1449 drivers / 8.223 person-hours ❖ 2017: 1015 hours training / 724 drivers / 3.513 person-hours ❖ 2018: 516 hours training / 624 drivers / 4087 person-hours ❖ 2019: 834 hours training / 658 drivers / 6209 person-hours In line with Training and Development Plans, Ekol employees join many programs in the field of orientation, adaptation to work, personal, technical, professional, and leadership development. In 32 addition to trainings in classrooms, e-learning, on-the-job training, seminars, conferences, and panels are offered as distinct training solutions, to contribute to the professional and personal development of our employees, with a view to raising their knowledge levels higher, to come up with individuals to create value and increase performance each day. With the necessity of contribution to society and social responsibility approach, Training and Development activities continue also outside of Ekol. A logistics class was opened in cooperation with Hezarfen Vocational and Technical High School. With this project, where Ekol provides its support in the means of content and technical possibilities, high school students are provided with education and profession. As a continuation of the project, Ekol Staff College Completion Project began. With this project, Ekol employees providing necessary competencies are supported to complete the high school. Total Training Hours: ❖ 2007: 1,254 hours training / 1,165 employees / 10,462 person-hours ❖ 2008: 1,858 hours training / 7,871 employees / 20,917 person-hours ❖ 2009: 2,450 hours training / 5,211 employees / 15,623 person-hours ❖ 2010: 2,900 hours training / 5,909 employees / 19,264 person-hours ❖ 2011: 3,573 hours training / 13,682 employees / 34,515 person-hours ❖ 2012: 6,547 hours training / 16,189 employees / 36,468 person-hours ❖ 2013: 3,586 hours training / 7,184 employees / 43,800 person-hours ❖ 2014: 5,525 hours training / 7,536 employees / 54,306 person-hours ❖ 2015: 9.364 hours training / 8.205 employees / 57.441 person-hours ❖ 2016: 11.891 hours training / 24.279 employees / 64.375 person-hours ❖ 2017: 8.971 hours training / 26.677 employees / 58.147 person-hours ❖ 2018: 7.899 hours training / 45.288 employees / 96.484 person-hours 33 ❖ 2019: 14.549 hours training / 41.166 employees / 83.993 person-hours Ekol and Social Responsibility Our Corporate Social Responsibility Policy: Positively contribute to the future of the community Since its foundation in 1990, Ekol Logistics always aimed to fulfil its responsibilities towards the society, the environment, and employees. In this framework, it tried to support Social Responsibility Projects to the extent of its capabilities. Ekol underlines its efforts in this respect with the frequently 34 used slogan logistics for a better world , and pays the due of its principles with countless projects it carried out through the years. 1) Ensure that new generations grow to be more socially conscious and wellequipped individuals With its service network providing in different sectors, Ekol Logistics is working within a structure present at all fields of life. With a view to fulfilling its part in achieving a better society, Ekol engages in numerous education projects to raise modern and contemporary new generations according to the cultural, social values of the society. 2) Achieve sustainable growth by developing environmentally-sustainable projects and business processes Natural resources are being exhausted with pace. Habitats are getting restricted. Each day harm done by humans on the environment increases logarithmically. Believing that the companies need to play their part in leaving a better world to future generations, Ekol strives to organize its processes with environmentawareness, to inform its employees, and to support non-governmental organizations working to protect wildlife... 3) Ekol Voluntary Day 5th December World Voluntary Day is celebrated as Ekol Voluntary Day by employees every year. Ekol Logistics's employees have internalized Social Responsibility Awareness within the framework of the corporate culture, and currently maintain their efforts in this respect. All employees engage in personal efforts in addition to company-wide efforts. 35 ENSURE THAT NEW GENERATIONS GROW TO BE MORE SOCIALLY CONSCIOUS AND WELLEQUIPPED INDIVIDUALS Hezarfen Technical and Industrial Vocational High School (2013): In 2013, Ekol Logistics has set an example for the industry by establishing an Application Depot and a Computer Lab for Hezarfen Technical and Industrial Vocational High School. Ekol, as part of its active support for education since day one, had set up a modern computer lab for 40 students of Ekol Class at Hezarfen Vocational and Technical Anatolian High School, as well as applied education depots, to meet the needs of the industry. In order to gain the students reading habit and improve their self expressions habit, in 2014, a library was founded, facilities were visited, specialists and experienced unit managers came together with students within the scope of on-site training, and seminars were organized, as well. Booklets on warehouse management, distribution, and customs procedures were drawn up to support the education curriculum, in order to help raise well-equipped graduates for the industry. Within this project, internships in Ekol facilities are offered to the students to do internships in Ekol facility. Ekol won a Special Jury award at the first TEGEP Learning and Development Awards in Social Responsibility category thanks to Hezarfen Vocational and Technical High School project. 36 Ekol Employees–High School Education Project Ekol supports its bluecollar employees with The High School Education Project organized in cooperation with Harmandere Vocational and Technical High School. While the first pilot group of “Ekol Employees High School Education Project” are continuing their education, in the academic period 2014/15, 30 employees from Contract Logistics participated in the project and passed to the 11th grade after finishing the term successfully. Ekol is aiming to make sure that all our eligible employees benefit from this project. Accordingly, Ekol reached out to 104 employees from its facilities in Istanbul who indicated their willingness to finish their high school education in the academic year of 2015/16. Both face-to-face and e-learning methods are used in the program. At the weekends, students receive training on logistics at Harmandere Vocational and Technical School while they receive their general culture courses through e-learning. When they have collected enough credits, the blue-collar workers of Ekol will be awarded with their diplomas as the graduates of the Vocational High School Logistics Department. ''Ekol Employees High School Education Project , which is essentially a social responsibility project, offers many social and economic advantages to its employees. In 2017, the first students graduated from Ekol’s Personnel High School Graduation Project, a project targeting blue collar employees. Sixteen students received diplomas from the Open Vocational High School Logistics Department as Logistics Department graduates. 37 Rota – Ekol Logistics Mentorship Program Rota – As part of the Program, Ekol’s volunteer mentors shared their professional and personal experiences with their mentees. The program commenced in 2017 with participation from the Hezarfen Technical Anatolian High School seniors. The Ekol Family volunteers receive student mentorship training. Ekol aims to guide and help students at the most critical point in their lives by providing them information through the program. ‘’Don’t Wait, Donate’’ Campaign Ekol organized Don't Wait, Donate Campaign in 2016, started to collect books with the support of its employees for filling the Harmandere Vocational and Technical School Logistics department library. Aiming to increase the reading habits of students, contribute to raise them as efficacious people for the society, Ekol voluntary employees gave support to the campaign at the book collection points which were placed in the facilities. The project continued in 2017. DarüşşafakaKitapcan Parent To give to fresh grade 5 students, of Darüşşafaka, Ekol, in 2014-2015 education period; became Book Parent of 5d class with 25 students making a cooperation for ''Kitapcan Book Gift Card'' project prepared by Book Everywhere for Anyone Foundation. Ekol supported this project by fulfilling needs for books of the class for 1 year. 38 Donation to Village Schools in Cooperation With Bilkent University Ekol also supported the activity organized by Bilkent University under its corporate social responsibility projects. In 2018, we donated clothes to students in Bitlis Kapısuyu Village Dibekli Hamlet Elementary School and in Hakkari Şemdinli Konur Village Elementary School. The articles chosen specifically to meet the needs of the students were delivered to their schools. Ekol's Cooperation with Universities Aware that the youth comprises the most important individuals of the society, Ekol Logistics acts in cooperation with universities. Opportunities to visit the facilities, internship agreements with important educational institutions, career days participated, and panels, as activities organized for or with universities, provide, on the one hand, university students a chance to prepare themselves better for the professional life, and fulfil, on the other, the role of the firm in supporting training of quality work-force, as part of its industrial responsibility. Ekol reached an important success in 2012 as the first brand to establish the only R&D Centre in its sector in Turkey. Employing a young staff of more than 120 full-time personnel – 95% holding graduate degrees, Ekol R&D Center implemented more than 100 projects to date, with the purpose of increasing productivity and developing new business models. 3 of 7 projects of R&D department supported by TUBİTAK were approved in 2014, for 4 R&D projects patent applications are carried out. Ekol R&D Center will create a ground for realization projects of SAN-TEZs (Thesis Studies Supported by Industry) and give opportunity of implementation to masters and doctorate students during which the ongoing cooperation of Ekol with academics will increase and publications of sector specific studies and case studies will have vast chances. 39 In 2016, Ekol Poland signed a cooperative agreement with the Poznan University of Logistics, the first higher education institution of Poland in the field of logistics. Ekol Poland teaches students about various subjects. Ekol Ukraine launches the #EkolOsvita educational initiative for higher education students. As part of the project, the provider opens the doors of its main bonded warehouse to future specialists and teachers. Ekol’s RUTA bonded warehouse hosts university students during certain periods. In 2017, Ekol Turkey became part of the six-week syllabus in collaboration with Okan University. Okan University students received a “Brand” lecture from Selin Üstün, the Ekol Turkey Strategic Customer Relations Management Director. There was high interest in the Program from students in the Logistics Department, and from other departments including Law. The Brand lecture covered many important questions and topics, like “What do we carry?” “How do we carry?” and “Import and Export Processes” Within the scope of our collaboration with Okan University in March, 2018, we launched a pilot program in Ekol. A Teaching Fellow of the Okan University provided the “Supply Chain Management MBA Program” to 15 Ekol emplo yees at the Ekol’s Kardelen Facility. The non-thesis program graduated its first alumni in 2019. Thus, participants obtained a master’s degree, thanks to this collaboration. Visits to Facilities: Ekol provides tours of the highly-automated facilities equipped with advanced technology, for logistics clubs of universities, allowing the students to have an on-site glimpse on the processes. The students obtain a chance to get detailed information regarding the industry they intend to work in, in addition to an opportunity to see the wide range of services covered by the logistics industry. 40 Facility visits in year 2008: İzmir University of Economics Beykent University Avcılar Mehmet Emin Horoz Vocational School of Logistics İstanbul University Facility visits in year 2009: Bilgi University Okan University İzmir University of Economics Bahçeşehir University Facility visits in year 2010: Boğaziçi University Yeditepe University Facility visits in year 2011: İstanbul Kültür University Bahçeşehir University Yeditepe University Facility visits in year 2012: Okan University Arel University Yıldız Teknik University Bilkent University Kayseri Erciyes University 41 Facility visits in year 2013: Bilkent University Uludağ University Nişantaşı University Okan University Facility visits in year 2014: Bahçeşehir University Fransa Sorbonne University Okan University Işık University İstanbul Ticaret University TOBB Ekonomi ve Teknoloji University Türk Hava Kurumu University Facility visits in year 2015: Bilgi University İstanbul Technical University İstanbul Kültür University Facility visits in year 2016: İnegöl Commerce Vocational High School FIATA Diploma Eğitimi Katılımcıları Feriha Uyar Girl Vocational School 50.yıl Feridun Tümer High School Bilgi University Sakarya University Hezarfen Vocational and Technical Anatolian High School Dumlupınar Üniversitesi Şaphane MYO 42 Nuh Naci Yazgan University Arel University Facility visits in year 2017: Maltepe University İstanbul Kültür University İstanbul Gelişim University Bilkent University Hezarfen Technical and Industrial Vocational High School Karatay Technical and Industrial Vocational High School Özyeğin University Dimitrie Bolintineanu Technology High School Kiev Logistics School LogisticPoint Facility visits in year 2018: Medipol University Sultangazi Atatürk Technical and Industrial Vocational High School Beykoz University Karabağlar Fatih Sultan Mehmet Technical and Industrial Vocational High School Pamfil Şeicaru High School Çanakkale 18 Mart University Yalova University Hezarfen Technical and Industrial Vocational High School İstanbul Kültür University MEF University Facility visits in year 2019: Hezarfen Technical and Industrial Vocational High School Medipol University 43 Okan University İstanbul Maltepe University İstanbul Kültür University Seminars and Panels: The executives of Ekol Logistics offer numerous seminars and participate in panels each year, in order to share their experiences accumulated in long years in the industry, with the logistics specialists of the future. Seminars and Panels in 2007: İzmir University of Economics – Seminars by Guest Speakers Seminars and Panels in 2008: Yeditepe University – Career Days Celal Bayar University – International Trade and Logistics Seminar Seminars and Panels in 2009: Istanbul Technical University – 8th Industry Days Erciyes University – Logistics Day Boğaziçi University – Seminar Class Seminars and Panels in 2010: Boğaziçi University – Seminar Class Uludağ University – Career Days 2010 Muğla University 44 Seminars and Panels in 2011: Uludağ University İstanbul Kültür University Marmara University Seminars and Panels in 2012: Boğaziçi University İstanbul Kültür University Uludağ University Yıldız Teknik University Seminars and Panels in 2013: Uludağ University İstanbul University Yeditepe University Seminars and Panels in 2014: Okan University Işık University Çağ University Bahçeşehir University İstanbul Ticaret University Yıldız Teknik University Sakarya University Eylül University Seminars and Panels in 2015: 45 İstanbul Technical University Uşak University Yıldız Technic University Balıkesir University Niğde University Bahçeşehir University Koç University Yaşar University Süleyman Şah University Seminars and Panels in 2016: Arel University Poznan Logistics School Darüşşafaka High School Dokuz Eylül University Maritime Faculty Özyeğin University Yeditepe University İstanbul University Bocconi University Marmara University Ege University Poznan Logistics University Kiev-Mohila Business School İstanbul Gelişim University Okan University Seminars and Panels in 2017: Sivas Cumhuriyet University, Logistics for a New World Seminar Afyon Kocatepe University – Career in Logistics Okan University – Urban Logistics 46 Çanakkale 18 Mart University – Deregulation of Railways and a Career in the Logistics Summit Panel Hezarfen Vocational and Technical Anatolian High School – Dumlupınar University Şaphane Vocational High School – Interconnected and Innovative Logistics Solutions Seminar Önen Vocational and Technical High School – New Trends and Careers in Logistics Izmir Economy University – Digital Supply Chains Panel Poznań Logistics University – 11th Teachers’ Forum Seminars and Panels in 2018: Özyeğin UniversityTransformation ve Industry 4.0 Panel Yaşar University Logistics Days -Logistics 4.0 ve Big Data Panel Yeditepe UniversitySustainable Strategies in Logistics Panel Kyiv National Economic UniversityLogistics Days Seminars and Panels in 2019: Boğaziçi UniversityOur Business Processes ve Health Logistics Yeditepe UniversityLogistics in the New Era and Modern Solutions Panel 18 Mart UniversityLogistics Summit Necmettin Erbakan UniversityKonya Logistics Summit Afyon Kocatepe UniversityLogistics Career Days Düzce UniversityCareer Days Medipol UniversityCareer Days Yeditepe UniversityWomen in the Industry Sponsorships: In order to support the students in getting a complete education, Ekol sponsors various events organized for university students, the future of Turkey, to fulfill its responsibility for university students. 47 Sponsorships in year 2007: Logistics Training Camp ‘07 Sponsorships in year 2008: Istanbul University – Graduation Ceremony 2008 Sakarya University – Shell Eco-marathon (logistics support) Sponsorships in year 2011: Mersin University – TUBİTAK Formula G Solar-Powered Car Races Sponsorship for the team racing with the vehicle named Scarpion. Sponsorships in year 2012: Uludağ University gift a conference room to the Vocational School of Social Sciences. İstanbul Kültür University –2012 Logistics Panel Bilkent University – Supply Chain Summit Sponsorships in year 2013: Bilkent University-National Academy of Young Student Symposium TOBB Economics and Technology University -The Election Analysis Working Group (EWGL A) Conference Sponsorships in year 2014: Istanbul University of Purchasing and Supply Chain Conference Dokuz Eylul University European Solar Challenge (European Solar Vehicles Race) Logistic support Istanbul Commerce University-Production Research Club, support for the project called Dreams Libraries Middle East Technical University, 2014 Shell Eco-Marathon race in Valencia Logistic support 48 Bilkent University junior National Academy Student Symposium Sponsorships in year 2015: ODTÜE-commerce ve Logistics Summit Sponsorships in year 2016: Yıldız Technical University Formula Student Race Logistics Sponsorship Open SitgesEkol Spain sponsorship Sponsorships in year 2017: Yıldız Technical University Formula Student Race Logistics Sponsorship BME Formula Racing Team-HungarySupporting students in the car building project. Sponsorships in year 2018: Yıldız Technical University Formula Student Race Logistics Sponsorship ODTUFormula Student Race Logistics Sponsorship Chalmers Technology UniversityShell EcoMarathon Logistics Sponsorship BME Formula Racing Team-HungarySupporting students in the car building project. Sponsorships in year 2019: Yıldız Technical University Formula Student Race Logistics Sponsorship ODTUFormula Student Race Logistics Sponsorship Internship Opportunities: As one of the most important logistics firms of Turkey, Ekol offers university students various internship opportunities. Each year, an average of 30 students are provided internship opportunities in Ekol's facilities. Through agreements with the most successful universities of Turkey, such as 49 Boğaziçi, ITU, and METU, students of Industrial and Business Administration Engineering departments are offered internship opportunities. ACHIEVE SUSTAINABLE GROWTH BY DEVELOPING ENVIRONMENTALLY-SUSTAINABLE PROJECTS AND BUSINESS PROCESSES Fleet Replacement Project: EURO 5 norms aim to achieve gradual reductions in NO (Nitrogen oxide), CO (Carbon monoxide), HC (Hydrocarbons) and particle emissions. Within the framework of the project to minimize the environmental footprint of the vehicles which ensure seamless flow of trade throughout Europe, Ekol Logistics replaced all the trucks in its fleet as of the end of 2011, and made the fleet fully compliant with EURO 5 standards. 50 With a fleet exceeding by a wide margin the EURO 1 standards currently in force in Turkey, Ekol adopted European norms by adding Euro-6 vehicles as of 2015, and proved its environmentalawareness with over 3000 Euro-5 and Euro-6 compliant vehicles. Ekol added 150 ecoand driver-friendly Mercedes-Benz Actros 1845 LSnRL 4X2 Model heavy-duty trucks, equipped with the state-of-the-art Euro 6 engines, to its fleet in 2018. Intermodal Transportation: Every day, Ekol provides services in all corners of the globe, aspiring to use natural resources optimally and creating a more sustainable business model. Ekol causes less harm to the environment with its Intermodal transportation system, which it introduced in 2008, in comparison to road transportation. Each month, it saves an adequate amount of diesel fuel to save a forest the size of 730 soccer fields or to circle around the world 170 times. In a single Intermodal trip, Ekol achieves the following savings without having to cover 2,429 kilometers of road: ● 823 l of fuel ● 2,221 kg of CO2 ● 5.8 kg of NOX ● 0.08 kg of particles. 51 52 WWF Green Office Program: Ekol Logistics is proud to become the first logistics company in Turkey to participate in WWF Green Office program. There are improvements being planned and implemented with respect to Waste Management, Electricity Consumption and Paper Consumption savings indicators chosen within the framework of the program. The activities in this respect focus on improving the awareness of employees. Within the scope of the Green Office Program, an awareness-raising presentation was held for employees in two facilities of Ekol in 2012. The presentation was made by WWF-Turkey 53 representatives and the issues such as WWF, Green Office, system/ecosystem, ecological footprint, water footprint and climate change were included in the presentation. Informative announcements emphasizing consumption of natural resources and recycling were created and hung on the relative fields in the facility in 2013. In the year 2014, Ekol Logistics accomplished to be the first logistics company in Turkey to have been granted with Green Office Diploma after the final assessment carried out by WWF. Waste Management: Ekol is well aware that wastes which were not disposed of appropriately remain to pollute nature for years, continuing to have harmful effects on the environment. In this respect, Ekol Logistics, focusing also on Waste Management within the framework of WWF Green Office Program, took steps to ensure any waste created during its operations is disposed of appropriately. Aiming to reduce trash volumes through sorted collection of wastes, Ekol Logistics aims to reduce the use of raw materials, energy, and other natural resources through the application of suitable sorting methods. The sorted waste is disposed of or recycled appropriately by the licensed firms with which Ekol made contracts for this purpose. Collection of Food Waste: The waste food collected in cafeterias is taken to animal shelters in the vicinity, with an aim to provide food for our animal friends. Sorting of Food Waste: Through sorting out recyclable wastes among the waste produced in the cafeteria, recycling efforts are supported. 54 Campaign for the Recovery of Scrap Waste: The scrap waste created in the facilities within the year 2011 were sorted and delivered to relevant recycling firms. The revenue derived from this operation was used to support the adoption campaign of the World Wide Fund for Nature (WWF) Turkey. Paper Consumption: In order to protect the nature's oxygen factory, the forests, Ekol included savings in paper consumption and recycling of paper among the main indicators chosen within the framework of WWF Green Office Program. Ekol determines paper consumption rates per department, and produces special solutions to reduce consumption. Each ton of paper recycled thanks to the efforts of Ekol saves 17 trees, which in turn provide for the oxygen needs of 144 human beings. Moreover, through the use of recycled paper, Ekol helps achieve significant savings in water and energy consumption for the production of paper. Electricity Consumption: With the awareness that anyone can create a substantial difference in terms of electricity savings, Ekol aims to support a collective movement rather than instances of individual efforts to reduce electricity consumption. Furthermore, Ekol is in the process of coming up with improvements in line with the results of analyses performed using different measurement devices for each office. 55 In Turkey, lighting accounts for 20% of the electricity consumption. A 20% improvement towards energy-efficient lighting systems would allow savings equal to the annual generation capacity of Keban Dam. That is why Ekol opts to use energy-efficient light bulbs in its facilities. Through the Virtual Server Project implemented in 2011, an existing set of 55 servers were replaced with 4 virtual servers, to achieve 20% savings in electricity consumption. Number of Power Supplies Total Consumption / kwh 55 servers at various locations 70 28 4 virtual servers 8 5.4 Energy Saving 22.6 Circular Economy Ekol is a member of the Turkey Materials Marketplace, which is the Turkish pillar of the global “Materials Marketplace” platform established under the Circular Economy studies of the Business Council for Sustainable Development Turkey (BCSD Turkey) of which it is also a member. The Turkey Materials Marketplace is a cloud-based platform designed to facilitate the reuse of cross-industry materials and is the only platform that contributes to the Circular Economy in this sense and extent. WWF-Earth Hour Activity Ekol Logistics, as the Earth Hour activity envoy of World Wildlife Fund (WWF), which is one of the biggest environmental movements in the world, supports the activity in its facilities in order to draw attention to global climate change. LEED Investments Ekol now designs its warehouse investments in accordance with LEED standards, the “Leadership in Energy and Environmental Design,” and establishes LEED-certified facilities. Our most recent investments, the Kozmoz and Lotus facilities, are LEED-certified. Additionally, the Lotus facility features Turkey’s largest indoor space with LEED certification. 56 Environment Management System (2009-2019): In 2010, Ekol completed the Environment Management System Project, of which infrastructure began to be laid down in 2009. Within the framework of the project, documentation was created as per ISO 14001 Environment Management Standards, and applied later on predetermined environment-related targets. Then trainings of Ekol personnel and the students of the schools closeby began. ❖ With reference to the targets, the disposal of the wastes produced in the facilities began in accordance with Environment Regulations. ❖ Packaging Wastes: Collected and sorted within the facility, and recycled by licensed firms. ❖ Domestic Wastes: Disposed of by the municipality. ❖ Waste Vegetable Oils: Given to licensed recycling firms by our kitchens operated by contractor firms. ❖ Waste Mineral Oils: Disposed of by licensed firms. ❖ Hazardous Wastes: Disposed of by licensed firms. ❖ Used Batteries and Accumulators: Collected in battery boxes provided by TAP Association, and disposed of again by TAP Association. ❖ Worn Tires: Delivered to producers. ❖ Medical Wastes: Disposed of by licensed firms. ❖ Electronic Wastes: Disposed of by licensed firms. ❖ The project aims in particular to increase the environment-awareness of blue collar workers. By supporting recycling, the protection of natural resources and reduction of energy consumption is aimed for. By increasing the awareness level of the employees for wastes which are potentially 57 very hazardous for the environment (hazardous wastes, waste oils etc.), support was provided to the efforts to prevent pollution. ❖ Potable water and drinking water analyses, chimney emission measurements, ambient noise measurements are performed as per the periods specified in relevant regulations, and checked for compliance. ❖ In 2010, in line with the established targets, Environment-Awareness and Recycling trainings were provided at 3 high schools in the vicinity of Lilyum Facility. ❖ The employees who received the highest scores in the exam following the EnvironmentAwareness, Recycling and Hazardous Waste Management Trainings carried out at the Lilyum Facility were awarded with environment-friendly products. ❖ A Battery Collection contest was organized to increase employees' awareness regarding batteries, which constitute a major hazard for the environment. ❖ Designs to increase the employees' awareness were created, and sent to all employees via email. ❖ As a result of these activities, Lilyum Facility was granted ISO 14001 Environment Management System Certificate. ❖ In 2011, 2 additional facilities were included in the ISO 14001 Environment Management System for which certification was received previously. The efforts to expand the system are on track. ❖ In February, 2019, The Lotus facility was certified under the ISO 14001 Environmental Management System standard. ❖ The five facilities, Kozmoz, Orkide, Lavanta, Lilyum, and Kardelen, were previously certified under the ISO 14001 Environmental Management System standard. Ekol’s efforts in this area have been continued with the 2019 certification of its Lotus Facility. ❖ A storage area is established to minimize the harm of hazardous waste on the environment, and these wastes are now disposed of using appropriate methods, at disposal facilities licensed by the Ministry of Environment and Urban Planning. ❖ All white-collar workers took e-learning courses on Environmental and Recycling Training and Hazardous Waste Training in 2013 under the scope of Environmental Awareness training. ❖ We continued reporting our greenhouse gas emissions in 2019 in compliance with the ISO 14064-1 to monitor greenhouse gas emission in logistics operations. 58 ❖ The Lotus Facility was awarded the LEED Silver certificate in 2019. ❖ The Kozmoz Facility also started its operations after being awarded LEED Gold accreditation. ❖ Ekol took its place among the finalists of the 2015 European Business Awards for the Environment (EBAE). ❖ It was also a finalist in the Sustainable Development Association of Turkey (SKD) Innovative Sustainability Application awards. ❖ The Yalova International Ro-Ro Terminal: Reduces inner-city traffic from operations at Haydarpaşa Port, Offers exporters and manufacturers sustainable services that diminish operational inefficiencies caused by traffic restrictions at certain times, Cuts the distance traveled by providing services in closer-proximity to production centers such as Gebze, Bursa, İzmit and Eskişehir, Reduces congestion on the Istanbul Fatih Sultan Mehmet Bridge and the İzmit–İstanbul TEM Highway. According to 2015 figures, this means a saving of 4 million kilometers of road traveled and 1.5 million liters of diesel oil used. It also means a decrease in traffic as 100,000 vehicles are now avoiding main arterial roads and bridges. ❖ In 2017, Ekol’s Intermodal Transportation services became a finalist in the Sustainable Business Awards contest, which awards the most successful sustainable business models of the year. ❖ In 2018, all Ekol locations completed the transition to the ISO 14001:2015 standard. Ekol has begun to issue carbon emission reduction certificates to its customers for their contribution to nature, thanks to their cooperation with Ekol. ❖ Ekol won an award in the Carbon Management category for its intermodal business model at the Sustainable Business Awards 2019, organized by the Sustainability Academy. The Carbon Management Award is given to business models, projects and studies that are developed with holistic measurement and management approaches for reducing greenhouse gas and carbon emissions in line with slowing down and adapting to climate change. Our intermodal business model reduced our diesel fuel consumption by 409,000 cubic meters in 10 years, thereby preventing the emission of 625,000 tons of CO2. We are proud to have substantially reduced our carbon footprint. 59 In 2011, in the warehouse operations of Ekol, a total of; ❖ 7,631,000 kwh energy was consumed. ❖ 50,934 m3 water was consumed. ❖ 1,940 kg electronic waste was delivered to licensed firms for recycling. ❖ 150 kg batteries were collected and sent for disposal. ❖ 1,600 kg packaging waste was delivered to licensed firms for recycling. Throughout 2012, in Ekol's facilities which are the environment management system practice of Ekol, a total of; ❖ 10,770,022.22 kWh energy was consumed. ❖ 36,737 m3 water was consumed. ❖ 455 kg electronic waste was delivered to licensed firms for recycling. ❖ 10 kg batteries were collected and sent for disposal. ❖ 1,165,545 tons packaging waste was delivered to licensed firms for recycling. ❖ 1,531 kg hazardous waste, 5,700 kg scrap waste was delivered to licensed firms. Consumption has risen due to the increase in data collection quality and the number of facilities. Throughout 2014, in Ekol's facilities which are the environmental management system practice of Ekol, a total of; ❖ 7,836,668 kwh energy was consumed. ❖ 117,140 m3 water is consumed. ❖ 124,391 m3 natural gas is consumed. ❖ 4,740 kg hazardous waste was delivered to licensed firms for recycling. ❖ 1,189,520 tones of packaging waste was delivered to licensed firms for recycling. 60 Throughout 2015, in Ekol's facilities which are the environmental management system practice of Ekol, a total of; ❖ 9,530,884 kwh energy was consumed. ❖ 134,295 m3 water is consumed. ❖ 154,425 m3 natural gas is consumed. ❖ 300 kg hazardous waste was delivered to licensed firms for recycling. ❖ 1,524,600 tonnes of packaging waste was delivered to licensed firms for recycling. Throughout 2016, in Ekol's facilities which are the environmental management system practice of Ekol, a total of; ❖ 17,228,156 kwh energy was consumed. ❖ 156,310 m3 water is consumed. ❖ 171,430 m3 natural gas is consumed. ❖ 320 kg hazardous waste was delivered to licensed firms for recycling. ❖ 1,654,600 tonnes of packaging waste was delivered to licensed firms for recycling. Throughout 2017, in Ekol's facilities which are the environmental management system practice of Ekol, a total of; ❖ 17,491,584 kWh of energy was consumed. ❖ 148,918 m3 water is consumed. ❖ 101,598 m3 natural gas is consumed. ❖ 2,838 kg hazardous waste was delivered to licensed firms for recycling. ❖ 1,752,400 tonnes of packaging waste was delivered to licensed firms for recycling. 61 Throughout 2018, in Ekol's facilities which are the environmental management system practice of Ekol, a total of; ❖ 21,138,926 kwh energy was consumed. ❖ 179,970 m3 water is consumed. ❖ 122,783,20 m3 natural gas is consumed. ❖ 8,955 kg hazardous waste was delivered to licensed firms for recycling. ❖ 2,220,611 tonnes of packaging waste was delivered to licensed firms for recycling. Throughout 2019, in Ekol's facilities which are the environmental management system practice of Ekol, a total of; ❖ 20,822,086 kwh energy was consumed. ❖ 106,288 m3 water is consumed. ❖ 811,472 m3 natural gas is consumed. ❖ 3,585 kg hazardous waste was delivered to licensed firms for recycling. ❖ 3,626,435 tonnes of packaging waste was delivered to licensed firms for recycling. Ekol Memory Forests: Ekol Logistics concluded the year 2012-201320142015 with an important social responsibility activity which is also in compliance with green logistics. Between the years 20122015 , Ekol believed that the best New Year gift to business partners would be to bring in a new forest to Turkey, and established cooperation with TEMA Foundation in this regard. Within the scope of this cooperation, recycled certificates containing information on memorial forest projects of 5,000 plants, in 2012 in Izmir-Urla, in 2013 in Manisa-Salihli, in 2014 in İzmir Urla Kadıovacık and in 2015 Burdur Tefenni Beyköy are sent to business partners. 62 Ekol supports the TEMA Nature Training Program Having made donations to TEMA for the preservation of forests on behalf of our clients, Ekol also contributed to TEMA Nature Education Program in 2016. Donations were raised to support children's natural science education during a special NTV show broadcast live by the Turkish Foundation for Combating Soil Erosion, for Reforestation and the Protection of Natural Habitats (TEMA) to celebrate its 25th anniversary. As a part of this special live broadcast, Ekol pledged to meet the education expenses of 2,500 children. Turkey’s Life Project (2010): In the aftermath of the Green Office Program realized with WWF, Ekol began to support the projects by World Wide Fund for Nature, and became a supporter of most important efforts of the Fund to protect natural resources and sustain wild life. In this respect, Ekol became a sponsor of the campaign Turkey's Life launched by WWF Turkey aiming to receive donations from 1001 donors, each providing TRY 1001, in order to create a fund for projects trying to achieve a better understanding of the importance of biodiversity on human life, protect the natural wealth well integrated with the traditional lifestyle in Anatolia, yet on the verge of extinction, and improve life standards by adopting sustainable means of utilizing nature. 63 EKOL VOLUNTEERS DAY 5th December World Volunteers Day is celebrated as Ekol Volunteers Day.by employees every year. Ekol Logistics's employees have internalized Social Responsibility Awareness within the framework of the corporate culture, and currently maintain their efforts in this respect. All employees engage in personal efforts in addition to company-wide efforts. In 2016, Ekol employees carried out more than 40 volunteer projects meeting a variety of needs across geographies and languages in 14 countries in which Ekol operates. View our projects at www.ekolvolunteers.com. The projects are performed by volunteers in groups founded by Ekol's employees to support animal welfare and for the betterment of society and the world. Ekol Volunteers Day took the International Project/Campaign category award in 2017 at the 16th Golden Compass Turkish Public Relations Awards held by the Turkish Public Relations Association (TUHID). EKOL AND NGO COOPERATIONS Ekol Logistics enters into joint projects with non-governmental organizations working to achieve higher life standards and a more egalitarian society, and provides any assistance it may be of, with various grants. Ekol's Cooperation with LÖSEV: Ekol Logistics is aware that just financial assistance for a non-governmental organization would not suffice. In this respect, services within the framework of the industry are offered to NGOs as assistance. Since 2007, logistical support has been provided to LÖSEV when required. In particular, 64 the warehouses in Ankara and İzmir are used to store support packages received by LÖSEV. This helps problem-free storage of support packages for timely delivery to persons who need them. In addition to storage organizations, the materials for the Village for Children with Leukemia constructed by LÖSEV were also carried free of charge on vehicles of Ekol Logistics. In 2014 and 2015, a cooperation again with LÖSEV was established to enable Ekol employees individual support, LOSEV Happy Shop stand was opened in various facilities of Ekol, hand made products prepared for new year by LOSEV was exhibited and revenues coming from this were used for children with leukemia, by the association. EKOLITY (Gender-Equality Sensitive Workplace Model) Gender discrimination is unwittingly prevalent in many aspects of our lives. It often manifests in proverbs, idioms, songs, newspaper articles, business world, etc. Ekol sets out to break social barriers with Ekolity. Ekol discusses social gender issues. The Ekolity project aims to create awareness about social gender roles and develop a gender-equality sensitive workplace model. Ekolity, a Gender-Equality Sensitive Workplace Project, brings together volunteer employees for training in a joint effort with Bir IZ Foundation. Volunteers gain gender-equality awareness through interactive training. These volunteer employees then visit Ekol facilities to collaborate with other employees and provide them with information about the passionate issue of “social gender” perception. EKOLITY, Ekol Logistics gender equality-aware workspace model project, has won gold in The International Public Relations Association’s (IPRA) Golden World Awards for Excellence, which is considered the “Oscars” of the public relations world. Ekol Romania Supports the Future of Romanian Children Foundation 65 Ekol Romania donates clothes and toys to the Future of Romanian Children Foundation. The Foundation provides daycare, social protection, psychological assistance, family counselling, assistance and medical care. It also provides preschool and after-school education five days a week between 7:30 am and 6:30 pm, and three meals and two daily snacks for 60 children from disadvantaged families. Ekol Romania wants to put a smile on children’s faces. Through the Foundation, it donates clothes and toys to Romanian children in need. Ekol Ran for Ending Child Agricultural Labor We participated in the 38th Istanbul Marathon to end child agricultural labor. In collaboration with UNICEF, the Ekol Team ran the marathon to support child agricultural workers, and to raise awareness about child labor, one of the biggest problems of the modern world. Awareness Raising for ALS Disease In order to draw attention and create awareness, Ekol Health Group challenged its customers with ‘’Ice Bucket Challenge’’ and by sharing a video showing pouring a bucket full of ice and water over themselves which was filmed to reach as many people as possible, was shared in social media and ALS Foundation was supported. That village is not too far project: Ekol Logistics makes utmost use of its capabilities and efforts to support education and youth. In this respect, logistics support was provided for the That Village Is Not Too Far Education Project organized by Merter Platform. 66 Founded on 31st March 2011 by textile industrialists and businessmen from Merter, the Merter Platform took the road to build libraries for 3 thousand village schools all over Turkey. A fund of approximately 2 million Liras is gathered for this purpose. The project launched with the slogan That village is not too far then moved to contact with village schools and learn what they needed. Headed by the Honorary Chairman, Governor of Istanbul, Hüseyin Avni Mutlu, and supported also by the Ministry of Education, the education project That village is not too far by Merter Platform sent assistance to 2058 schools to date. Providing transportation services for assistance sent by the Merter Platform to 10 provinces, Ekol helped provide aid to 783 schools. Blood Donations to Kızılay: Ekol considers blood donations as a matter above and beyond other social responsibility projects. It is a duty before humanity. In this respect, joint projects are held with Kızılay on every occasion. Ekol Logistics supported Kızılay's campaign Seeking 1,000,000 Good Persons in 2008. Within the framework of the project, the employees were provided education on blood donations. Then, at the Ekol Family Picnic organized later on, volunteers were given an opportunity to donate blood at the mobile donation unit. Furthermore, Kızılay's mobile donation units visit Ekol Logistics's various facilities, offering the employees to donate blood. Ekol's Cooperation with BİKEV: Established in 1995 by 107 volunteers from various professions including poets, professors, shopkeepers, civil servants, former members of parliament, architects, engineers, workers, doctors, fishermen, nurses, industrialists, lawyers, pharmacists, housewives, teachers and so on, BİKEV founded a dormitory for girls attending primary school in Balıkesir. Upon becoming aware of the activities of the foundation, Ekol Logistics 67 began contemplating ways to be of assistance, and then proceeded to make the largest grant the foundation received up to date. The Project Your Children Are Ours As Well (2007 – 2011): Ekol Logistics invests in the future of the world, the children. The aim is to provide them with a suitable living environment, healthy development and good education opportunities. In this respect, each year 500 primary and secondary school students are supported with books, notebooks, pens, and clothes. The aim is to help the students complete the education year without any problems. Moreover, again within the framework of the campaign Your Children Are Ours As Well, each year 600 students who are successful in OKS are offered scholarships. Ekol and Children of Hope Foundation Through organizations with Children of Hope Foundation, which works to provide salvation for homeless children and to ensure their rehabilitation into the society, Ekol Logistics aims to bring joys to homeless children, joys which cannot be purchased, with concerts organized and gifts given, in an effort to touch the heart of the children. In the campaign Save a Child, Save the Future organized jointly with the Children of Hope Foundation, a nice concert was organized for the children, in addition to bringing the light on this foundation, to help it secure more support. There is a village far away Bolluca Children's Village is an organization established in 1992, to support young children who lost a warm home, and to ensure that they grow up in much better environments than streets, with an ultimate aim of raising good members of the society, and is kept going with the support of 68 philanthropists. Ekol Logistics eventually included the project, which was brought first to its attention as an object of efforts by its employees, in its Corporate Social Responsibility umbrella. Within the framework of the project, the children living in the Children's Village were hosted at Ekol's facilities, and various donations were made. OTHER Contribution to the Children’s Hospital of the Semmelweis University in Budapest, Hungary Ekol Hungary provided financial support to the Children’s Hospital of the Semmelweis University in Budapest to purchase necessary equipment. Within the scope of its fourth financial support to a children’s hospital, Ekol Hungary purchased special equipment for the Hematology Unit and made the children’s day with the giant teddy bears they gave. Ekol Greece Aid Campaign for Orphaned Babies Ekol employees donated baby-care supplies to Agios Stylianos Orphanage. The campaign covered all the basic needs of a baby, such as diapers, milk, diaper rash cream, disposable gloves and other necessary supplies. 69 Ekol Italy Sponsors a Disability Sports Team Ekol Italy began sponsoring Disability Sports Team. Some of the athletes on the team earned the chance to compete in The 2016 IPC Athletics European Championships and Rio 2016 Paralympic Games. On top of that, Ekol Italy employee Alina Alexandra Simion ran in the Golden Gala in Rome. Alina Alexandra Simion broke the Italy record in the 400 meters. Thanks to this sponsorship Ekol not only supports sport, but also pays particular attention to improving access to sports for people with disabilities. INDIVIDUAL PRACTICES Ekol Logistics's employees have internalized Social Responsibility Awareness within the framework of the corporate culture, and currently maintain their efforts in this respect. All employees engage in personal efforts in addition to company-wide efforts. The visits to retirement homes and donation campaigns organized by the employees are among the best examples of such efforts. 70 71 10 Principles of the Global Compact: Human Rights: ● Principle 1: Businesses should support and respect the protection of internationally proclaimed human rights. ● Principle 2: Businesses should make sure that they are not complicit in human rights abuses. Work and Labor Standards: ● Principle 3: Businesses should uphold the freedom of association and the effective recognition of the right to collective bargaining. ● Principle 4: Businesses should strive for the elimination of all forms of forced and compulsory labour. ● Principle 5: Businesses should ensure the effective abolition of child labour. ● Principle 6: Businesses should work for the elimination of discrimination in respect of employment and occupation. Environment: ● Principle 7: Businesses should support a precautionary approach to environmental challenges. ● Principle 8: Businesses should undertake initiatives to promote greater environmental responsibility. ● Principle 9: Businesses should encourage the development and diffusion of environmentally friendly technologies. Corruption: 72 ● Principle 10: Businesses should work against corruption in all its forms, including extortion and bribery. GRI Indicators' Content Global Compact's 10 Principles Reference Pages Principle 1: Businesses should support and respect the 4-5-7-8-9;12-24 ;24protection of internationally proclaimed human rights. 35 Principle 2: Businesses should make sure that they are not complicit in human rights abuses. 4-7-9, 16 ;24-35 Principle 3: Businesses should uphold the freedom of association and the effective recognition of the right to collective bargaining. 16 Principle 4: Businesses should strive for the elimination of all forms of forced and compulsory labour. 15-16-17 Principle 5: Businesses should ensure the effective abolition of child labour. 19 Principle 6: Businesses should work for the elimination of discrimination in respect of employment and occupation. 15-16-17-18-40 73 Principle 7: Businesses should support a precautionary approach to environmental challenges. 24; 36 -45 Principle 8: Businesses should undertake initiatives to promote greater environmental responsibility. 24; 36 -45 Principle 9: Businesses should encourage the development and diffusion of environmentally friendly technologies. 24; 36 -45 Principle 10: Businesses should work against corruption in all its forms, including extortion and bribery. 16-17 74
