JXTG REPORT ESG DATA BOOK 2019 JXTG REPORT ESG DATA BOOK 2019 Printed in Japan Contents Editorial Policy Overview Editorial Policy 1 The JXTG Group published the JXTG Report ESG Data Book 2019 to highlight the Group s challenges, philosophy and initiatives in terms of JXTG Group Overview 2 environmental, social and governance (ESG) for reference by all stakeholders, including investors with a strong interest in ESG investment. JXTG Group This report references GRI Standards, a set of guidelines on interJXTG Group Philosophy / national reporting, and is organized according to ESG topics to provide information in an easily accessible and searchable manner. Holdings, Inc. JXTG Group Code of Conduct 3 We have also published the JXTG Integrated Report 2019, which contains the Group s mediumto long-term growth strategy (value Representative Director, President Tsutomu Sugimori creation story). We encourage readers to use the Integrated Report in CSR Management 5 in conjunction with the ESG Data Book. The JXTG Group will continue to disclose clear, concise informaOil and Natural Gas Exploration and tion, and we remain committed to active engagement with our stakeEnergy Business Production Business Metals Business holders. Nippon Oil & Energy Nippon Oil & Gas Exploration Nippon Mining & Metals Listed subsidiary Shared function Governance Report 12 Scope of Report NIPPO companies Katsuyuki Ota Hiroshi Hosoi Seiichi Murayama Corporate Governance Framework 13 This report covers JXTG Holdings, Inc., JXTG Nippon Oil & Energy Representative Director, President Representative Director, President President and Chief Executive Officer Corporation, JX Nippon Oil & Gas Exploration Corporation, JX Nippon Compliance 22 Mining & Metals Corporation (hereafter, JXTG Holdings and core operating companies ), as well as other subsidiaries and affiliated companies, for a total of 702 companies. The JXTG Group s Businesses In cases where the scope is different from the above, the relevant Environmental Report 26 scope will be indicated. Nippon Oil & Energy Environmental Management 27 Period Covered by the Report In principle, this report covers the period from April 2018 to March Principal Business Initiatives to Prevent Global Warming 30 2019. However, some information from April 2019 onward is also inRefining and sale of petroleum products (gasoline, kerosene, lubricants, etc.) cluded, as necessary. Import and sale of gas and coal Initiatives to Promote the 3Rs 34 Manufacture and sale of petrochemical products (Reduce, Reuse, Recycle) Publication Date Supply of electric power and hydrogen January 2020 Management of Chemical Substances 36 Petroleum products Gasoline, kerosene, diesel, fuel oil A, heavy fuel oil C, naphtha, lubricants, asphalt, etc. (Previous issue: January 2019; Next issue: January 2021) Basic chemical products Paraxylene, benzene, propylene, ethylene, ENB, etc. Main Products Initiatives to Prevent Environmental 38 Guidelines Used as Reference High performance materials Astaxanthin, liquid crystal polymers, anode materials for lithium ion batteries, non-woven materials, etc. Pollution Other products Liquefied natural gas (LNG), coal, electric power, hydrogen, etc. ● Global Reporting Initiative (GRI) Sustainability Reporting StanDomestic Manufacturing Refineries Sendai, Kashima, Chiba, Kawasaki, Negishi, Osaka, Sakai, Wakayama, Mizushima, Marifu, Oita Initiatives for Biodiversity 41 dards Sites Plants Yokohama, Chita, Kawasaki ● The Environmental Reporting Guidelines (2018 Edition), Ministry of the Environment, Japan Social Report 44 Enhancing Reporting Reliability Safety 45 Environmental and social information for fiscal 2018 indicated with has been assured by an independent practitioner to ensure objective Nippon Oil & Gas Exploration and reliable reporting. Human Rights 50 Principal Business Inquiries Exploration for and development of oil, natural gas, and other mineral resources Human Resource Development 55 JXTG Holdings, Inc. Extraction, processing, storage, sale, and shipment of oil, natural gas, and other mineral ESG Promotion Department resources and their secondary products Health 59 1-2 Otemachi, 1-chome, Chiyoda-ku, Tokyo 100-8161, Japan https://www.hd.jxtg-group.co.jp/english/ Main Products Crude oil, natural gas Healthy Work Environment 61 Worksites U.S. Gulf of Mexico, UK North Sea, Vietnam, Myanmar, Malaysia, Indonesia, Papua New Guinea, Australia, UAE, Qatar, Brazil, Japan Email: csr@jxtg.com Quality 65 Disclosure Media Framework Supply Chain Management 68 Shareholders, investors, analysts Social Contribution 71 Disclosure of Concise explanation of Disclosure of Disclosure of Nippon Mining & Metals information about mediumto long-term comprehensive more detailed financial/business growth strategy non-financial information on Principal Business performance, (value creation story) information each company governance, etc. Development and mining of nonferrous metal resources, smelting and refining, and marketing Data 77 JXTG Holdings Integrated Report of nonferrous metals (copper, rare metals, gold, silver, etc.); manufacture and marketing of functional materials and thin film materials Governance, Environmental, 78 Excerpts of material Excerpts of useful Recycling of nonferrous metal materials, industrial waste treatment financial and governance Link to more non-financial information and Social Data information detailed information for investors Resources development Copper concentrate, molybdenum concentrate JXTG Holdings Smelting and refining Copper, precious metals, rare metals, sulfuric acid Main Sites and Areas of Core Operating 83 JXTG Holdings Company Groups website ESG Data Book and website Main Products and Functional materials Electro-deposited copper foil, treated rolled copper foil, precision rolled products, precision processed products (financial data, etc.) (ESG information, etc.) Services Thin film materials Sputtering targets materials, surface treatment agents, compound semiconductor materials Independent Practitioner s 85 Recycling and environmental services Recovery of valuable metals and Detoxification of industrial waste Assurance Report Excerpts of useful non-financial information for stakeholders Tantalum and niobium Tantalum and niobium products (high-purity metal powders, oxides, etc.) Japan Isohara Works, Kurami Works, Pan Pacific Copper s Saganoseki Smelter & Refinery and Hitachi Works, Tsuruga Plant JX Nippon Mining & Metals Principal Worksites JXTG Nippon Oil & Energy JX Nippon Oil & Gas Exploration Overseas Caserones Copper Mine, H.C. Starck Tantalum and Niobium GmbH, Nippon Mining & Metals (Suzhou), Sustainability Report, Comparative Table with GRI Standards 86 website website website Nikko Metals Taiwan, JX Nippon Mining & Metals USA, JX Nippon Mining & Metals Korea 1 JXTG REPORT ESG DATA BOOK 2019 JXTG REPORT ESG DATA BOOK 2019 2 Philosophy Code of Conduct 1. Positioning of JXTG Group Code of Conduct 3. Applicable Scope of the Code of Conduct This JXTG Group Code of Conduct (hereinafter referred to as In principle, this Code of Conduct is applicable to all directors, the Code of Conduct ) is a set of standards that we, as the officers and employees who work at JXTG Holdings, Inc., and JXTG Group directors, officers and employees, apply in order to its subsidiaries. We also encourage companies that are part of realize the JXTG Group Philosophy through our business our value chain to comply with this Code of Conduct. These activities and fulfill our social responsibilities. The Code of companies include, but are not limited to, suppliers of raw Conduct, as the foundation of all of our corporate regulations, materials, logistics companies, construction companies, and shall serve as the cornerstone for making judgments in all of our sales companies. business dealings. 4. Relation to National and Local Laws JXTG Group Philosophy Mission We, as the JXTG Group directors, officers and employees, Our Five Core Values respect this Code of Conduct, in addition to local laws and customs. National and local laws will take precedence over the Code of Conduct when the provisions of such laws are more JXTG Group Code of Conduct rigorous than the Code of Conduct. Various policies JXTG Group Code of Conduct Corporate regulations and policies 1. Compliance 2. Safety and security 2. Important Aspects in Living Up to the Code 3. Environmental conservation of Conduct 4. Health enhancement We, as the JXTG Group directors, officers and employees, shall 5. Respect for human rights comply with this Code of Conduct when performing our duties. When violations of this Code of Conduct are found, they 6. Product and service quality shall not be overlooked, and each one of us must do what we can to deal with such issues. 7. Equitable and fair transactions Executives and supervisors shall fulfill their obligations 8. Appropriate relationships with governments and according to their responsibilities so that all business operations public administrations are carried out in accordance with this Code of Conduct. Ask yourself the following questions if you are in doubt as to 9. Avoidance of conflicts of interest what is the correct course of action in performing your day-to10. Corporate asset protection and management day business operations. 11. Information management and disclosure ● Is your conduct and the conduct of others around you in 12. Establishment of a healthy work environment compliance with laws and regulations, the Code of Conduct, and high ethical standards? 13. Contribution to the development of civil society ● Can you unreservedly give an account of your conduct to the people around you, including your family and friends? 14. Actions for violations and measures to prevent recurrence ● Can you respond with confidence to questions about your conduct from third parties or the authorities, or reports by the media? WEB The full text of the JXTG Group Code of Conduct is available on our website. https://www.hd.jxtg-group.co.jp/english/company/conduct.html 3 JXTG REPORT ESG DATA BOOK 2019 JXTG REPORT ESG DATA BOOK 2019 4 CSR Management Basic Approach The Group s Top CSR Priorities Steps in the Review Process Diagram of the Group's Top CSR Priorities (Material Issues) STEP 1 Identify social issues to consider Priority: High The JXTG Group recognizes that society s trust is essential for achievThe JXTG Group has identified top CSR priorities Following an exhaustive review of various guidelines (GRI standards, ISO ing sustainable growth as a company. With this understanding, we (material issues) from two viewpoints: priority from an 26000, etc.) as well as the assessment items of ESG research providers Development of a low-carbon society conduct ongoing CSR activities aimed at contributing to the developexternal perspective and priority from the Group s and the Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs), 32 social issues were Ensuring safety / Health enhancement ment of communities and helping to ensure a vibrant future. internal perspective. identified for consideration. Compliance Development of a After discussing the Group s top CSR priorities recycling-oriented society STEP 2 Priority from external perspective for fiscal 2019, we identified the same nine issues as Prioritize from an external perspective Promotion of Respect for Basic Policy for CSR those for fiscal 2018, and established 12 targets Priority from an external perspective was assessed for the 32 social issues diversity and inclusion human rights (KPIs). identified at Step 1, taking into account such factors as the assessment weight given by ESG research providers. Human resource In order for JXTG Group executives and employees to realize the misLooking ahead, we will work to achieve each of development sion set forth in the JXTG Group Philosophy, they follow in good faith these targets through the Group s CSR promotion Promotion of STEP 3 Prioritize from the Group s perspective work-life the JXTG Group Code of Conduct, which is based on our five core framework. management values. In this way, we aim to ensure that we are a corporate group Initiatives included in this report that address the Priority from the Group s internal perspective was assessed, taking into account such factors as our Medium-Term Management Plan and reviews worthy of the trust of our stakeholders. Group s top CSR priorities are denoted with a heart of the expert committees within the CSR promotion structure, as well as the E (environmental) item (♥) symbol. guidelines of the U.S. Sustainability Accounting Standards Board (SASB). S (social) item G (governance) item STEP 4 Identify the Group s top CSR priorities Priority Fields for CSR Activities After assessing priority from an external perspective and priority from the Priority: Low Priority from Group's internal perspective Priority: High Group s internal perspective, nine issues of particular significance were identified as the Group s top CSR priorities. Based on the 14 standards in the JXTG Group Code of Conduct, we Table of the Group s Top CSR Priorities (Material Issues) Evaluation: Achieved/Steady progress Not achieved have established eight priority fields for CSR activities. Fiscal 2018 Target Achievement Fiscal 2019 Target Achievement The JXTG Group Code of Conduct Category The Group's top CSR priorities Initiative (KPI) target Fiscal 2018 Results/Progress (KPI) target Applicable companies (fiscal year) (fiscal year) 1. Compliance 9. Avoidance of conflicts of interest Development of a Reduction in CO2 emissions Reduce by 2.72 million tons Reduce by 2.6 million tons Reduce by 2.72 million tons Core operating company groups Environmental 2. Safety and security 10. Corporate asset protection and management Fiscal 2019 Fiscal 2019 low-carbon society (Reduction amount through own efforts) compared to 2009 compared to fiscal 2009 compared to fiscal 2009 NIPPO (Total of 43 companies) 3. Environmental conservation 11. Information management and disclosure 4. Health enhancement 12. Establishment of a healthy work Ratio of landfill disposal Ratio of landfill disposal Development of a recycling-oriCore operating company groups 5. Respect for human rights environment Reduction in landfill disposal Maintain zero emissions Fiscal 2019 0.4% Maintain zero emissions Fiscal 2019 ented society NIPPO (Total of 42 companies) 13. Contribution to the development of civil (less than 1%) (less than 1%) 6. Product and service quality society 7. Equitable and fair transactions Zero serious occupational injuries* Core operating company groups 14. Actions for violations and measures to Ensuring safety Reduction in occupational injuries Zero occupational fatalities Fiscal 2018 1 Fiscal 2019 8. Appropriate relationships with governments *Occupational fatalities NIPPO (Total of 45 companies) prevent recurrence and public administrations JXTG Holdings, JXTG Nippon Oil & Energy, 100% participation rate in 100% participation rate in human JX Nippon Oil & Gas Exploration, Respect for human rights Human rights awareness Fiscal 2018 94.2% Fiscal 2019 human rights training rights training JX Nippon Mining & Metals (Total of 4 companies) Priority Fields for CSR Activities Related SDGs JXTG Holdings, JXTG Nippon Oil & Energy, Implementation of effective training Human resource Development of human resources responsible Implementation of effective training based on JX Nippon Oil & Gas Exploration, Fiscal 2018 based on human resource Fiscal 2019 development for enhancing corporate value human resource development plan JX Nippon Mining & Metals development plan High Ethical Standards (Total of 4 companies) JXTG Holdings, JXTG Nippon Oil & Energy, Women comprise at least 25% of newly hired Women comprise at least 25% of JX Nippon Oil & Gas Exploration, Advancement of women in the workplace Fiscal 2020 24.1％ Fiscal 2020 graduates newly hired graduates JX Nippon Mining & Metals Compliance Promotion of diversity and (Total of 4 companies) Social inclusion JXTG Holdings, JXTG Nippon Oil & Energy, At least 2.2% employment rate of people with Maintain employment rate of people JX Nippon Oil & Gas Exploration, Advancement of employees with disabilities Fiscal 2018 2.35％ Fiscal 2019 disabilities with disabilities at 2.2% or higher JX Nippon Mining & Metals Safety and Environment (Total of 4 companies) JXTG Holdings, JXTG Nippon Oil & Energy, Maintain annual paid leave days JX Nippon Oil & Gas Exploration, Promotion of workstyle reforms At least 80% of annual paid leave days taken Fiscal 2018 90.0％ Fiscal 2019 taken at 80% or higher JX Nippon Mining & Metals Human Rights Promotion of work-life (Total of 4 companies) management JXTG Holdings, JXTG Nippon Oil & Energy, Utilization of work-life balance support Maintain 100% rate of return to work after Maintain 100% rate of return to work JX Nippon Oil & Gas Exploration, Human Resource Fiscal 2018 100％ Fiscal 2019 systems/programs childcare leave after childcare leave JX Nippon Mining & Metals Development (Total of 4 companies) JXTG Holdings, JXTG Nippon Oil & Energy, Build database as infrastructure for planning Achieve cancer screening rate of JX Nippon Oil & Gas Exploration, Health enhancement Ensure health of employees various measures Fiscal 2018 Fiscal 2019 Health 70% or higher JX Nippon Mining & Metals (covering 14,000 employees) (Total of 4 companies) Companies for which legal compliance Conduct legal compliance Governance Legal compliance inspections Conduct legal compliance inspections Fiscal 2018 Fiscal 2019 inspections are carried out* inspections Quality (Total of 101 companies) Compliance Implement training on important Companies for which legal compliance Compliance with important laws and Implement training on important laws and Fiscal 2018 laws and regulations Fiscal 2019 inspections are carried out* regulations (Anti-Monopoly Act, etc.) regulations (Anti-Monopoly Act, etc.) (Anti-Monopoly Act, etc.) (Total of 101 companies) Social Contribution * JXTG Holdings, core operating companies, Nippo Corporation, and their main group companies. 5 JXTG REPORT ESG DATA BOOK 2019 JXTG REPORT ESG DATA BOOK 2019 6 CSR Management Expert Committees CSR Promotion Structure JXTG Group Compliance Committee We have established the JXTG Group CSR Council, which is Council are in turn reported to the JXTG Holdings Executive Position Advisory body to the president of JXTG Holdings chaired by the representative director and president of JXTG Council and Board of Directors, each of which provides instruc1. Deliberation on compliance matters (policy, direction, etc.) for the JXTG Group, and reporting on these matters to the JXTG Group Holdings, as the body for promoting CSR activities in priority tions. Roles CSR Council 2. Confirmation, evaluation and the sharing of information on the status of compliance measures at each JXTG Group company, fields throughout the JXTG Group. We have also assigned CSR promotion managers from and reporting to the JXTG Group CSR Council The JXTG Group CSR Council is composed of Group each department to spearhead various activities and share company presidents and relevant executives. The council information. Chair Officer (director) responsible for the Legal & Corporate Affairs Department at JXTG Holdings deliberates basic policies and reviews and evaluates the status 1. Relevant general managers at JXTG Holdings nominated by the Chair of activities from a perspective that spans the entire Group. The Members 2. Relevant officers and general managers of the Group s core operating companies 3. Other persons nominated by the Chair matters deliberated by and reported to the JXTG Group CSR Frequency of meetings In principle, twice a year (April and October), and extraordinarily as required JXTG Group CSR Promotion Structure Priority field: Compliance 1. Compliance 10. Corporate asset protection and management Priority fields and JXTG Group 7. Equitable and fair transactions 11. Information management and disclosure JXTG Holdings Code of Conduct standards 8. Appropriate relationships with governments and public 14. Actions for violations and measures to prevent recurrence overseen by the committee administrations (whistleblowing system development and promotion of its use) Monitoring/Supervision 9. Avoidance of conflicts of interest Board of Directors Body Responsible for Reporting JXTG Group CSR Council Collaboration Risk Management Monitoring/Supervision (Chaired by the president of JXTG Holdings) Internal Control Council Executive Council JXTG Group Environment & Safety Committee Reporting Position Advisory body to the president of JXTG Holdings 1. Deliberation on matters concerning safety and the environment (policy, direction, etc.) for the JXTG Group, and reporting on Expert Committees these matters to the JXTG Group CSR Council Roles 2. Confirmation, evaluation and the sharing of information on the status of measures concerning safety and the environment at JXTG Group each JXTG Group company, and reporting to the JXTG Group CSR Council JXTG Group JXTG Group Human Rights Promotion and Compliance Committee Environment & Safety Committee Human Resource Development Committee Chair Officer (director) responsible for the Safety, Health & Environment Department at JXTG Holdings 1. Relevant general managers at JXTG Holdings nominated by the Chair Members 2. Relevant officers and general managers of the Group s core operating companies 3. Other persons nominated by the Chair Frequency of meetings In principle, twice a year (April and October), and extraordinarily as required JXTG Holdings Group JXTG Nippon Oil & JX Nippon Oil & JX Nippon Mining & Energy Group Gas Exploration Group Metals Group Priority fields and JXTG Group Priority field: Safety and Environment 3. Environmental conservation Code of Conduct standards 1. Compliance (laws and regulations concerning safety and the environment) 4. Health enhancement overseen by the committee 2. Safety and security (primarily occupational safety) CSR promotion managers CSR promotion managers CSR promotion managers CSR promotion managers in each department in each department in each department in each department JXTG Group Human Rights Promotion and Human Resource Development Committee Position Advisory body to the president of JXTG Holdings JXTG Group CSR Council 1. Deliberation on matters concerning human rights, human resource development and health (policy, direction, etc.) for the JXTG Group, and reporting on these matters to the JXTG Group CSR Council Position Organization subordinate to the JXTG Holdings Executive Council Roles 2. Confirmation, evaluation and the sharing of information on the status of measures for human rights, human resource development and health at each JXTG Group company, and reporting to the JXTG Group CSR Council 1. Formulation and implementation of the JXTG Group s Basic Policy for CSR Roles 2. Review and evaluation of the JXTG Group s CSR promotion structure and status of CSR activities (including degree of underChair Officer (director) responsible for the Human Resources Department at JXTG Holdings standing and prevalence of the JXTG Group Philosophy and JXTG Group Code of Conduct) 1. Relevant general managers at JXTG Holdings nominated by the Chair Chair Representative director and president of JXTG Holdings Members 2. Relevant officers and general managers of the Group s core operating companies 3. Other persons nominated by the Chair 1. Members of the JXTG Holdings Executive Council (including directors) and the officers responsible for CSR at the Group s core operating companies Frequency of meetings In principle, twice a year (April and October), and extraordinarily as required Members 2. JXTG Group company presidents nominated by the Chair 3. Other persons nominated by the Chair Priority fields: Human Rights, Human Resource Development, Health Priority fields and JXTG Group 1. Compliance (laws and regulations concerning human rights, 5. Respect for human rights Frequency of meetings In principle, twice a year (April and October), and extraordinarily as required Code of Conduct standards human resource development and health) 12. Establishment of a healthy work environment overseen by the committee 4. Health enhancement (primarily occupational health) Priority fields and JXTG Group Code of Conduct standards All fields and standards overseen by the council 7 JXTG REPORT ESG DATA BOOK 2019 JXTG REPORT ESG DATA BOOK 2019 8 CSR Management Council, in fiscal 2018 we established the Anti-Corruption Major Initiatives Policy and the Human Rights Policy to complement the JXTG Stakeholder Engagement Group Code of Conduct. ■ CSR Council Meetings See p. 23 for the Anti-Corruption Policy and p. 50 for the The JXTG Group conducts its business activities while maintaining relationships with a broad range of stakeholders, including In fiscal 2018, the JXTG Group held two meetings of the JXTG Human Rights Policy. shareholders, investors, customers, business partners, and employees. We seek to earn society s trust by accurately assessing the Group CSR Council. In these meetings, discussions were held needs of our stakeholders and responding conscientiously. Measures to Raise Awareness of the Group Philosophy on the Group s top CSR priorities (material issues), and the and Code of Conduct council confirmed the activities of the expert committees and Shareholders and Investors Customers Business Partners progress on raising awareness of the Group Philosophy and Purpose Measure the Code of Conduct. The council also confirmed the JXTG JXTG Holdings is committed to the prompt, The JXTG Group is committed to developing The JXTG Group makes purchasing Distribute Group Philosophy cards and Code of Conduct Group s ESG initiatives and deliberated on related policies. handbooks proper, and fair disclosure of information to and delivering products and services that information available to business partners on The content of deliberation and reports by the JXTG Group shareholders and investors in accordance fulfill customer needs and expectations and its websites, actively provides business Display posters with its Disclosure Policy. earn customer trust and satisfaction. opportunities, and strives to ensure fair CSR Council were reported to the Board of Directors and the business opportunities. Ensure Executive Council, which affirmed the direction of the Group s awareness Use of digital signage in company workplaces Main means of communication Main means of communication CSR activities. ■General meetings of shareholders, presentation ■Communications through marketing activities Main means of communication Translation into 9 languages (English, Chinese [Simplified / meetings on financial results, and information ■Provision of safe, reliable, and valuable products and ■Communications through procurement activities sessions for individual investors services Traditional], Korean, Spanish, Portuguese, Vietnamese, Thai, ■Use of websites ■Disclosure of information through the Integrated ■Disclosure of information on websites Indonesian) and distribution Report, the ESG Data Book, shareholder reports, and ■CSR procurement surveys ■Inquiry channels through phone and websites our websites Dissemination of information through the Group employee ■ CSR Promotion Manager Workshop Promote magazine and intranet The JXTG Group appoints personnel at the deputy general understanding Implementation of e-learning for all officers and employees manager level as CSR promotion managers to facilitate CSR activities. Confirmation using awareness surveys targeting all officers Monitoring Every year, CSR promotion managers from across the and employees Group meet for a workshop, where we convey our basic policy on CSR and share information. At the workshop held in fiscal 2018, reports were made on the Group s CSR activities NPOs/NGOs Local Communities/Global Society Employees and a presentation was made by an outside expert on ESG and corporate management. The JXTG Group has built cooperative The JXTG Group strives to engage in responsible The JXTG Group considers employees to be relationships with NPOs and NGOs and corporate activities by responding to the needs critical stakeholders in its operations and has actively undertakes environmental and expectations of and engaging in active established various systems to ensure that preservation and social contribution activities. communication with the local communities in each employee can work with peace of mind the areas where it conducts its business and to his or her full capability. activities, as well as international society. Main means of communication Main means of communication Main means of communication ■Collaboration on biodiversity preservation activities ■Information sessions for members of local ■Periodic dialogue between labor unions and ■Collaboration on child-rearing support activities communities, participation in and sponsorship of management events ■Dissemination of information through the Group ■Volunteer activities employee magazine and the company intranet ■Establishment of support systems for oil, gas, and ■Periodic implementation of awareness surveys copper-producing countries ■Rank-based training, etc. ■Involvement in international initiatives Digital signage in company workplace ■ Discussions with the Corporate Human ■ JXTG Group Awareness Survey CSR promotion manager workshop Rights Benchmark (CHRB) The JXTG Group periodically conducts an anonymous awareIn July 2019, the JXTG Group met with the CHRB to discuss ness survey of all its officers and employees. This survey business and human rights. During the meeting, the CHRB comprises questions covering such topics as the Group Philos■ Implementing Measures to Raise provided background on its establishment and explained its ophy, the Code of Conduct, compliance, awareness of workAwareness of the Group Philosophy and mission. It also provided an explanation about the stance of place culture initiatives, and problems in day-to-day operations. Code of Conduct global companies in terms of human rights and problem areas, The most recent survey was conducted in the first half of The JXTG Group believes that understanding and implementataking into account its assessment results for 2018. fiscal 2019, and the fact that issues to be addressed as an tion of the JXTG Group Philosophy and the JXTG Group Code Looking ahead, we will continue to promote understanding organization were clearly identified through the results of the of Conduct by all officers and employees plays an important of our human rights initiatives through dialogue with various survey has been reported in accordance with the Group s CSR role in the fulfillment of our social responsibilities. stakeholders and identify new human rights issues to be promotion structure. Therefore, we are implementing various measures to addressed. enable all officers and employees to reference the JXTG Group Philosophy and the Code of Conduct at any time and return to the basics when necessary. Additionally, after deliberations by the JXTG Group CSR Code of Conduct handbook Group Philosophy card 9 JXTG REPORT ESG DATA BOOK 2019 JXTG REPORT ESG DATA BOOK 2019 10 CSR Management ● World Business Council For Sustainable Development Governance Report Principal Declarations and Initiatives (WBCSD) the JXTG Group Participates in and Supports The JXTG Group works to strengthen corporate governance and ■ UN Global Compact (UNGC) ● CDP ● International Council on promote compliance in order to increase our corporate value Mining & Metals (ICMM) Four Group companies̶JXTG Holdings, JXTG Nippon Oil & through highly transparent management and fair business Energy, JX Nippon Oil & Gas Exploration, and JX Nippon Mining practices. & Metals̶participate in the UN Global Compact, supporting the compact s 10 principles in the four categories of human rights, labor standards, the environment, and anti-corruption. ● Extractive Industries Transparency Initiative (EITI) ● Council for Better ● Japan Business Initiative Corporate Citizenship for Biodiversity (JBIB) (CBCC) Priority Fields for CSR Activities ● Sport for Tomorrow High Ethical Standards The Ten Principles of the UN Global Compact Compliance Human Rights Businesses should support and respect the protection of Principle 1 Safety and Environment internationally proclaimed human rights; and make sure that they are not complicit in human rights abuses. Principle 2 Communication with Industry Organizations Position Held by Group Human Rights Labour Organization Name Executive, etc. Businesses should uphold the freedom of association and the Principle 3 Vice Chair, JXTG Holdings Japan Business Federation Executive Secretary, Human Resource Development effective recognition of the right to collective bargaining; (Keidanren) Permanent Secretary the elimination of all forms of forced and compulsory labour; Principle 4 Petroleum Association of Japan Vice-President, Vice Executive Secretary the effective abolition of child labour; and Principle 5 Japan Petrochemical Industry Health JXTG Nippon Director the elimination of discrimination in respect of employment and Principle 6 Association Oil & Energy occupation. Policy Coordinating Committee Japan Chemical Industry Association member, Labor Committee member Quality Environment JX Nippon Japan Petroleum Development Vice Chairman Oil & Gas Association Businesses should support a precautionary approach to Principle 7 Exploration Japan Natural Gas Association Director Social Contribution environmental challenges; Japan Mining Industry Association Vice Chairman, Director undertake initiatives to promote greater environmental responsiPrinciple 8 (JMIA) bility; and The Sulphuric Acid Association of Chairman Japan encourage the development and diffusion of environmentally Principle 9 JX Nippon Japan Copper and Brass AssociaMining & Metals Director friendly technologies. tion (JCBA) Japan Society of Newer Metals Director Japan Catalyst Recovering Anti-Corruption Chairman Association Businesses should work against corruption in all its forms, Principle 10 including extortion and bribery. Inclusion in ESG Indices ■ Task Force on Climate-related Financial Disclosures (TCFD) As a signatory of the TCFD recommendations, JXTG Holdings will actively implement ESG initiatives for the realization of a sustainable society. We will also disclose information on our business activities to the greatest extent possible in accordance MSCI Japan ESG Select Leaders Index MSCI Japan Empowering Women Index (WIN) with the recommendations of the TCFD. THE INCLUSION OF JXTG Holdings, Inc. IN ANY MSCI INDEX, AND THE USE OF MSCI LOGOS, TRADEMARKS, SERVICE MARKS OR INDEX NAMES HEREIN, DO NOT CONSTITUTE A SPONSORSHIP, ENDORSEMENT OR PROMOTION OF JXTG Holdings, Inc. BY MSCI OR ANY OF ITS AFFILIATES. THE MSCI INDEXES ARE THE EXCLUSIVE PROPERTY OF MSCI. MSCI AND THE MSCI INDEX NAMES AND LOGOS ARE TRADEMARKS OR SERVICE MARKS OF MSCI OR ITS AFFILIATES. 11 JXTG REPORT ESG DATA BOOK 2019 JXTG REPORT ESG DATA BOOK 2019 12 Comparative Table with Comparative Table with Governance Report Environmental Report Social Report Data GRI Standards Governance Report Environmental Report Social Report Data GRI Standards Corporate Governance Compliance Corporate Governance Compliance Framework Framework Basic Policy on Corporate Governance 3. Board of Directors In order to achieve the sustainable growth of the JXTG Group The Board of Directors of the Company consists of the and increase its corporate value over the medium to long term, chairman, the president, more than one full-time director, Corporate Governance the Company established the Basic Policy on Corporate part-time directors concurrently serving as the presidents of Framework Governance of the JXTG Group, with the objective of establishing and operating a corporate governance framework for the the core operating companies, and outside directors. The Board of Directors shall manage the Company in accordconduct of transparent, fair, timely, and decisive decision-makance with the following policies: ing in the Group s management. This policy describes system(1) The Board of Directors will focus on deliberation and deteratically and comprehensively the Group s basic approach to mination of basic management policies, and the supervision corporate governance as well as its establishment and operaof business execution; Basic Approach and Framework tion, taking into consideration the Corporate Governance Code (2) Certain decisions on the execution of material operations established by the Tokyo Stock Exchange. This basic policy is will be delegated to the president of the Company in order to Corporate Governance Framework (As of June 26, 2019) published on the JXTG Holdings website as our commitment to improve the agility of business execution; and all stakeholders, including shareholders of JXTG Holdings along (3) With respect to material matters such as appraisal of return General Meeting of Shareholders with JXTG Group customers, business partners and employon investment, risks, progress of execution of material Election and removal of directors who are not Audit and Supervisory Committee members and directors ees, and the local communities where we operate. operations of the Company and the core operating compawho are Audit and Supervisory Committee members Election and removal of independent auditors nies, the Board of Directors will receive reports from persons (Audit firm) Basic Policy on Corporate Governance of the JXTG Group JXTG Holdings WEB such as the president of the Company and the presidents of https://www.hd.jxtg-group.co.jp/english/company/system/pdf/ Audit Audit and governance01.pdf the core operating companies, verify their consistency with Board of Directors (Chaired by representative director, president) Supervisory Committee Collaboration the basic management policies and oversee such matters. 5 directors who are Audit and Independent 12 directors who are not Audit and Supervisory Committee members (3 of whom are outside directors) Auditors Supervision Supervisory Committee members 5 directors who are Audit and Supervisory Committee members (3 of whom are outside directors) (3 of whom are outside directors) Basic Approach to Corporate Governance 4. Audit and Supervisory Committee Delegation of decisions on important business By appropriately establishing and carrying out corporate gov(1) The Audit and Supervisory Committee of the Company will Submission execution matters ernance, the JXTG Group works to realize the JXTG Group carry out organized and systematic audits with a high degree Consultation Consultation Recommendation Recommendation Representative director, Report on results Philosophy, achieve sustainable growth, and increase its of efficiency and objectivity through appropriate collaboration president of monitoring Election and removal of executive officers corporate value over the medium to long term. Based on this between full-time Audit and Supervisory Committee memDiscussion Financial audit Supervision Collaboration recognition, the Company has established and carries out the bers, who are given the power to gather information, and Nomination Advisory Compensation Advisory Executive Council Internal Control Council Committee Committee (Chaired by representative (Chaired by representative corporate governance of the Group as follows. Audit and Supervisory Committee members who are outside Collaboration (Chaired by outside director) (Chaired by outside director) director, president) director, president) directors, who have a high degree of independence along Approval Monitoring Resolution Basic Principles on the Establishment and with a wealth of knowledge and experience. Operation of Corporate Governance (2) The Audit and Supervisory Committee of the Company will Business Execution Audit 1. Role of each company under the holding company system oversee the execution of operations through each Audit and Internal Audit Executive Officers Department The JXTG Group is a group of companies whose core Supervisory Committee member exercising the voting right Internal audit (Internal Audit Division) business consists of three business fields: the Energy busithat he or she has as a director at Board of Directors meetness, the Oil and Natural Gas E&P business and the Metals ings and through each director who is not an Audit and Management supervision + Internal control of corporate group business. In view of the fact that these three businesses are Supervisory Committee member exercising the right to state so distinct, the JXTG Group has established a structure his or her opinion concerning personnel and compensation under which the Company serves as a holding company and matters. Group Companies Core Operating JXTG Nippon Oil JX Nippon Oil JX Nippon Mining Other the three core operating companies, which operate the core Companies & Energy & Gas Exploration & Metals Group Companies businesses, are placed thereunder. Under this structure, from 5. Outside directors a standpoint of optimizing the value of the JXTG Group as a To take advantage of the wealth of knowledge and experiwhole, the Company takes charge of formulating basic ence of outside directors and to ensure transparency and management policies, including the JXTG Group Philosophy, objectivity in decision-making, the Company shall take the Item Details the JXTG Group Code of Conduct, basic management following measures: Format of institutional design Company with an audit and supervisory committee policies such as medium-term management plans and (1) In determining the basic management policies at meetings of Number of directors who are not Audit and Supervisory Committee members 12 (9 inside, 3 outside) budgets (hereinafter, basic management policies ), allocatthe Board of Directors of the Company, request outside Number of directors who are Audit and Supervisory Committee members 5 (2 inside, 3 outside) ing management resources, and overseeing the managedirectors to be involved from the stage of consideration, and Total number of directors 17 (11 inside, 6 outside); 3 female directors Ratio of outside (independent) officers 35.3% ment of each core operating company. In turn, each core to fully discuss matters from multiple points of view; and in Ratio of female officers 17.6% operating company shall agilely execute its business activities decision-making on and overseeing the execution of material Term of directors who are not Audit and Supervisory Committee members 1 year in accordance with the basic management policies. operations, fully verify consistency with the basic manageTerm of directors who are Audit and Supervisory Committee members 2 years ment policies, taking opinions of outside directors into Adoption of executive officer system Yes 2. Institutional design account; and Institution assisting the president s decision making Executive Council The Company is a company with an audit and supervisory (2) In determining personnel affairs and compensation of Establishment of Nomination Advisory Committee and Voluntary advisory bodies for the Board of Directors committee. directors at meetings of the Board of Directors of the ComCompensation Advisory Committee pany, ensure transparency of the decision-making process by consulting with the Nomination Advisory Committee and 13 JXTG REPORT ESG DATA BOOK 2019 JXTG REPORT ESG DATA BOOK 2019 14 Comparative Table with Comparative Table with Governance Report Environmental Report Social Report Data GRI Standards Governance Report Environmental Report Social Report Data GRI Standards Corporate Governance Compliance Corporate Governance Compliance Framework Framework the Compensation Advisory Committee, more than half of members of the Company will be dispatched as part-time Evaluation of the Effectiveness of In addition, directors had positive evaluations for the implewhose members are outside directors, and which are corporate auditors of each core operating company to the Board of Directors mentation of the following items when transitioning to a compachaired by an outside director. perform audits on the execution of duties by directors of ny with an Audit and Supervisory Committee in June 2018 in core operating companies. Overview of Evaluation of the Effectiveness order to separate management supervision and business 6. Executive officers and the Executive Council (2) With respect to decision-making related to the execution of of the Board of Directors execution: organization of matters for deliberation, securing of (1) The Company will appoint executive officers as an institution material operations of the core operating companies (includFrom November 2018 to January 2019, the Board of Directors the length of time for deliberations, and the implementation of for the agile execution of operations pursuant to a decision ing matters pertaining to the execution of material operations conducted an evaluation of the effectiveness of itself. To various measures to promote free and open debate. of the Board of Directors. of subsidiaries of the core operating companies), shall be in conduct the evaluation, the Company engaged an external On the other hand, directors continued to point out certain (2) For the president to make decisions on execution of busiprinciple subject to a decision made by, and reported to, the consultant, and implemented a questionnaire for all directors, issues, such as the roles of the holding company and the core ness operations, the Company has established the ExecuBoard of Directors of the Company after a decision by the including outside directors, and conducted interviews with the operating companies, further promotion of the separation of tive Council as a consultative body for matters to be decided Board of Directors of such core operating company. The same. Analysis of the results indicated improvements in overall management supervision and business execution, and explanaby the president. The Executive Council, comprising the execution of other operations by the core operating compagovernance, and that the Board was generally evaluated as tions in advance for outside directors. Moving forward, the director and chairman of the Board of Directors, the presinies will be delegated to the relevant core operating compaeffective. Company will work to make further improvements in these dent, executive vice presidents, senior vice presidents ny to the extent consistent with the basic management areas. appointed by the president, and the presidents of core policies and allocation of management resources determined operating companies, makes decisions through careful by the Company, and decided by the president of such core Process for Evaluation of Board Effectiveness deliberation. operating company after deliberation by the Executive Evaluation by an external consultant Questionnaire for all directors based on the results of questionnaire (3) Full-time Audit and Supervisory Committee members will Council of the core operating company. (both inside and outside) Tabulation and analysis and interviews attend meetings of the Executive Council to understand the Improvements based on Elimination of the Senior Executive Advisor analysis performed by results of evaluation process for making important decisions and the status of an external consultant business execution, and share these with other Audit and and Advisor System Interviews led by Self-evaluation by an external consultant the Board of Directors Supervisory Committee members. In the interest of further strengthening corporate governance, the Company eliminated the senior executive advisor and 7. Governance framework of core operating companies advisor system effective June 26, 2019. The Company may (1) Each core operating company is a company with a board of appoint some of the resigned executives as senior corporate corporate auditors. Each core operating company has a advisor or corporate advisor after carrying out necessary Policy for Appointing Director Support System for Outside Directors board of directors to enable directors to oversee each procedures, including reporting to the Nomination Advisory Candidates Each of the three outside directors who are not Audit and other s performance of duties. Each core operating compaCommittee and resolutions by the Board of Directors, if the Supervisory Committee members and the three outside direcny will independently carry out sufficient analysis of risks and Company deems it necessary to use such resigned executives The Company strives to appoint independent outside directors* tors who are Audit and Supervisory Committee members meet verification of consistency with basic management policies. knowledge and to assign them to external affairs (activities in to at least one-third of director positions. As of June 26, 2019, the independence standards based on the rules of the Tokyo In addition, full-time Audit and Supervisory Committee the business/industry community, assuming public office, etc.). the ratio of outside independent officers was 35.3%. and Nagoya stock exchanges, on which the Company is listed. As directors who are not Audit and Supervisory Committee The Company sends materials regarding the agenda of meetComposition of Nomination Advisory Committee and Compensation Advisory Committee (As of June 26, 2019) and Fiscal 2018 Results members, the Company has appointed people who have such ings of the Board of Directors to the outside directors, in princicharacteristics as high standards of business ethics, strategic ple, three days before the meeting, and the Company provides Advisory Bodies Nomination Advisory Committee Compensation Advisory Committee thinking ability, superior decision-making capabilities, and explanations to the outside directors before the meeting. Chairperson Outside director (Otsuka)* Outside director (Otsuka)* flexible attitudes toward change, as well as the ability to superFurthermore, to enhance the auditing function by all Audit and Members vise decision-making and management from the viewpoint of Supervisory Committee members, including outside directors, Representative directors: 2 (Sugimori, Mutoh)* Representative directors: 2 (Sugimori, Mutoh)* (including chairperOutside directors: 3 (Otsuka, Ota, Miyata)* Outside directors: 3 (Otsuka, Ota, Miyata)* what is best for the Group as a whole. Two or more of the the Company has established the Office of the Audit and Superson) Ensure the transparency of the process for determining Ensure the transparency and objectivity of the process for determining the directors are independent outside directors. visory Committee, which is clearly independent from the chain Purpose director candidates compensation and other benefits for directors and executive officers As directors who are Audit and Supervisory Committee of command for divisions responsible for business execution The committee met a total of four times and deliberated on The committee met a total of four times and deliberated on matters such as members, the Company has appointed people who have such (including personnel evaluations). Full-time staff members have matters such as personnel proposals on candidates for compensation levels of directors of the Company after transition to a Results in fiscal 2018 directors of the Company, succession planning, and the company with an Audit and Supervisory Committee, revisions to the characteristics as high standards of business ethics, a certain been assigned to the office to assist with the duties of the Audit elimination of the senior executive advisor and advisor regulations on the management of the Compensation Advisory Committee, system. and the executive compensation plan. level of specialist knowledge in legal affairs, finance and acand Supervisory Committee members. Moreover, to support * Please see https://www.hd.jxtg-group.co.jp/english/company/directors/ for profiles of officers. counting, as well as the ability to appropriately audit the executhe outside directors who are not Audit and Supervisory Comtion of duties by directors and the ability to appropriately supermittee members in the execution of their duties, the Board vise the execution of business. A majority of these are Members Support Office has been established, and full-time Nomination Advisory Committee Compensation Advisory Committee independent outside directors. staff members have been assigned. To ensure the transparency of the process for determining the direcTo ensure the transparency and objectivity of the process for detertor candidates of the Company, the Nomination Advisory Commitmining the compensation and other benefits for directors and exec* The term independent outside director refers to outside directors who have tee has been established to provide advice to the Board of Directors utive officers, the Compensation Advisory Committee has been essatisfied the Company s Criteria for Assessing the Independence of Independent about personnel matters involving the Company s directors (includtablished to provide advice to the Board of Directors. The Officers. ing appointment and dismissal). The Nomination Advisory CommitCompensation Advisory Committee comprises three outside directee consists of three outside directors and two representative directors and two representative directors, and one of the outside directors, and one of the outside directors on the committee acts as tors on the committee acts as chairperson. chairperson. In addition, the Board of Directors requests the Compensation In addition, the Board of Directors receives advice from the Advisory Committee to advise on the policies for determining the Nomination Advisory Committee regarding succession planning for compensation and other benefits for directors and executive officers, the Company s chairman and president and for the presidents of as well as the executive compensation plan and compensation the core operating companies. amount. 15 JXTG REPORT ESG DATA BOOK 2019 JXTG REPORT ESG DATA BOOK 2019 16 Comparative Table with Comparative Table with Governance Report Environmental Report Social Report Data GRI Standards Governance Report Environmental Report Social Report Data GRI Standards Corporate Governance Compliance Corporate Governance Compliance Framework Framework Training for Directors and Corporate companies provide opportunities for each of these directors and Introduction of Share Compensation Plan The purpose of the introduction of this plan is to clarify the Auditors of Core Operating Companies corporate auditors to receive training related to the Companies The Company introduced a share compensation plan beginning linkage between the compensation of the Directors, etc., and Act, internal control systems, accounting and taxes, business in fiscal 2017. The share compensation plan adopts a mechathe value of the Company s shares; to further raise the incentive The directors of the Company and core operating companies strategies, and organizations. In addition, the Company pays for nism called Board Incentive Plan Trust (BIP Trust). The plan of the Directors, etc., to contribute to the enhancement of and the corporate auditors of core operating companies have expenses arising from self-study initiatives. Furthermore, when covers the period of execution of the duties of the Directors, corporate value; to further increase awareness for shareholdthe duty of working toward the realization of the Group Philosooutside directors are appointed, the Company provides explaetc., over three fiscal years, from fiscal 2017 to fiscal 2019, and er-centered management; and to improve the mediumto phy, the sustainable growth of the JXTG Group, and the nations of basic matters regarding the Group s businesses, and entitles the Directors, etc., to the delivery of the Company s long-term corporate value of the JXTG Group. achievement of increased corporate value over the medium to after their appointment, the Company offers business presentashares based on their roles. Certain portions of such Company long term. To that end, to support efforts to enhance necessary tions and worksite tours to deepen their understanding. shares may be provided by cash equivalent of the value of the knowledge and skills, the Company and its core operating Company s shares upon conversion. Training for Outside Directors (Fiscal 2018 and Fiscal 2019) Amount of Compensation and Other Benefits for Each Category of Officer (Fiscal 2018) Timing Topic Intended for Content of training (fiscal year) Before the transition to a company with an Audit and Supervisory Committee (from April 1, 2018 to the conclusion of the 8th Ordinary General Meeting of Shareholders held on June 27, 2018) Newly appointed Corporate governance 2019 The JXTG Group corporate governance Total amount Total amount of compensation and Total amount of compensation and directors of other benefits by type other benefits by type Internal control Newly appointed 2019 The JXTG Group internal control systems compensation (Million yen) Number of (Million yen) Number of Category of executives directors and other eligible officers eligible officers benefits Monthly Overview of JXTG Holdings and Newly appointed Bonus Share compensation 2019 Basic knowledge about JXTG Holdings and the core operating companies (Million yen) compensation core operating companies directors Directors Newly appointed 140 88 44 12 8 12 Business management 2019 The JXTG Group s business management and investment management frameworks (excluding outside directors) directors Corporate auditors Finance and investor relations Newly appointed 2019 Current status and issues regarding the Company s financial affairs, opinions of institutional (excluding outside corporate 25 25 ̶ 3 ̶ ̶ directors investors, etc. auditors) (JXTG Nippon Oil & Energy) Oita Refinery, Malaysia LNG Plants Outside directors 14 14 ̶ 4 ̶ ̶ 2018 (JX Nippon Mining & Metals) Kurami Works, Toho Titanium Co., Ltd. Chigasaki Plant, Pan Pacific Copper Co., Ltd. Saganoseki Smelter & Refinery Outside corporate auditors 8 8 ̶ 3 ̶ ̶ Worksite tours All directors (JXTG Nippon Oil & Energy) Central Technical Research Laboratory, Negishi Refinery, TAIWAN NISSEKI Co., Ltd., Note: The amount of share compensation is the amount accounted for in fiscal 2018. 2019 JX Specialty Chemicals & Materials (Taiwan) Co., Ltd. (JX Nippon Mining & Metals) Nikko Metals Taiwan Co., Ltd. After the transition to a company with an Audit and Supervisory Committee (from the conclusion of the 8th Ordinary General Meeting of Shareholders held on June 27, 2018 to March 31, 2019) Determination of Director paid monthly based on role, a bonus whose amount fluctuates Total amount Total amount of compensation and Total amount of compensation and of other benefits by type other benefits by type Compensation based on performance, and share compensation linked to the Category of executives compensation (Million yen) Number of (Million yen) Number of and other eligible officers eligible officers Company s share value. This is a balanced compensation benefits Monthly Bonus Share compensation The upper limit of the total amount of compensation for the system that reflects the Company s business performance for (Million yen) compensation Company s directors was determined, as follows, at the eighth the business year as well as shareholder value over the medium Directors who are not Audit Ordinary General Meeting of Shareholders, held on June 27, 2018. to long term in compensation amounts. The policy for determinand Supervisory Committee 374 239 119 10 17 10 members 1. The maximum amount of compensation for directors who are ing this compensation and other benefits is determined by (excluding outside directors) not Audit and Supervisory Committee members shall be resolution of the Board of Directors after deliberation and Directors who are Audit and 1,100 million yen (including 200 million yen for outside recommendation by the Compensation Advisory Committee Supervisory Committee 51 51 ̶ 2 ̶ ̶ directors who are not Audit and Supervisory Committee (comprising three outside directors and two representative members (excluding outside directors) members) per business year. directors, and chaired by an outside director). Furthermore, the Outside directors 32 32 ̶ 3 ̶ ̶ 2. The maximum amount of compensation for directors who are Compensation Advisory Committee allows one Audit and Audit and Supervisory Committee members shall be 200 Supervisory Committee member selected by the Audit and Outside corporate directors Audit and Supervisory 30 30 ̶ 3 ̶ ̶ million yen per business year. Supervisory Committee to attend meetings to ensure the Committee members In addition, in a separate framework from the above, at the committee is able to express its views concerning the compenNote: The amount of share compensation is the amount accounted for in fiscal 2018. eighth Ordinary General Meeting of Shareholders, held on June sation of directors who are not Audit and Supervisory Commit27, 2018, it was resolved that a share compensation plan for tee members at general meetings of shareholders. the Company s directors who are not Audit and Supervisory On the other hand, compensation for outside directors who Amount of Compensation and Other Benefits for Each Officer (Fiscal 2018) Committee members (excluding outside directors) and execuare not Audit and Supervisory Committee members comprises Total amount of Total amount of compensation and other benefits by type (Million yen) tive officers who do not serve concurrently as directors (hereina monthly remuneration in view of their roles as advisors and compensation and other Name Category of executives after, collectively the Directors, etc. ) would be reinstated. The supervisors to management as well as the supervisory function benefits Monthly compensation Bonus Share compensation (Million yen) upper limit of the plan is 600 million yen over a period of three in general management from an independent and objective fiscal years. standpoint. Yukio Uchida Representative Director 103 66 31 6 Compensation and other benefits for directors who are not Compensation for directors who are Audit and Supervisory Note: Only officers with total amount of compensation and other benefits of 100 million yen or more are listed. Audit and Supervisory Committee members (excluding outside Committee members comprises a monthly remuneration in directors) comprises three components: fixed compensation consideration of the independence of their duties. 17 JXTG REPORT ESG DATA BOOK 2019 JXTG REPORT ESG DATA BOOK 2019 18 Comparative Table with Comparative Table with Governance Report Environmental Report Social Report Data GRI Standards Governance Report Environmental Report Social Report Data GRI Standards Corporate Governance Compliance Corporate Governance Compliance Framework Framework operating company, a system is in place in which both the core Risk Assessment of Business Activities Information Security Risk Management operating company responsible for the risk event and the The JXTG Group has developed company rules and regulations Based on the JXTG Group Basic Rules for Information Security, Company will work together to implement contingencies for the for combating various kinds of risks in its business activities. For the JXTG Group works to prevent the improper use or discloThe JXTG Group has introduced an enterprise risk managerisk event. the screening of new investments, in addition to country risks sure, including leakage, of company information, which is a ment (ERM) system to facilitate the appropriate response to * COSO stands for Committee of Sponsoring Organizations of the Treadway and foreign exchange rate risks, we analyze and evaluate corporate asset. The JXTG Group also strives to maintain the management risks. Commission. It refers to a framework for internal control released by the ESG-related risks, including environmental risks such as those accuracy and reliability of its corporate information as well as commission and adopted by countries around the world. related to the scope of response to biodiversity and environprevent falsification or erroneous handling while making it Enterprise Risk Management (ERM) mental regulations, risks in the procurement of raw materials possible for authorized users of information to have constant In fiscal 2017, the Corporate Planning Department began including water, and human resources risks including human access to information when they need it. developing and implementing an ERM structure based on the Internal Control rights, along with occupational health and safety aspects. In addition, in terms of protecting personal information, we COSO* ERM framework. The Company has established and operates an internal control Based on this, appropriate actions are taken when necessary. work to protect the rights and interests of every individual, Specifically, through interviews of officers and managers system to ensure appropriate operations based on the JXTG For example, when reviewing a potential investment, we having established the Personal Information Protection Guideand other means, we determine specific risk events that could Group Philosophy and the Code of Conduct. The Board of perform screenings based on the stage-gate system prior to lines along with rules on the appropriate handling of personal affect the JXTG Group in view of future changes in the social Directors formulated the Basic Policy on Internal Control Sysreaching a final decision. The objective of the stage-gate information in compliance with the Personal Information Protecand economic situation and calculate the impact and probability tem, and monitors the status of operation of this system. system is to narrow down important projects for the adtion Act and other relevant laws and regulations. of these risks in accordance with assessment criteria. The The Internal Control Department of JXTG Holdings takes vancement of business strategies in an efficient manner. Executive Council then selects certain risks as material risk the lead in the facilitation for the JXTG Group to develop and Under this system, processes from initial review to execution Cyber Security Measures events, and reports are made to the Executive Council and operate the internal control system of each organization. are broken down into stages of review. In turn, gates are set The JXTG Group conducts training drills, issues reminders on Board of Directors on the status of review and implementation Internal controls stipulated in the Companies Act and the up that must be cleared in each of these stages. During suspicious email delivered to employees and provides Groupof countermeasures. Financial Instruments and Exchange Act are included in the screening, we clarify various risks, including ESG-related wide security training using curriculum translated into multiple The degree of impact and probability are shown below. Company s internal control system. risks, using sensitivity analysis and case analysis among languages in order to protect its important information and The Company is building and reinforcing autonomous other means and take steps to minimize risks. For important systems from cyberattacks, which have become stealthier in Impact internal control systems for each organization based on the investments, follow-up is carried out after a certain period of recent years. Impact level 3 Could significantly impact the entire Group; immediate COSO framework, moving toward a risk-based PDCA cycle time has passed to clarify impacts on the initial outlook The IT Security Basic Procedures for JXTG Group have implementation of countermeasures required. that can flexibly respond to the changing business environment. caused by environmental changes or other factors and deterbeen established as a set of rules that must be followed by Impact level 2 Could impact the entire Group to a certain degree; speThese internal control systems have been rolled out at mine whether to continue with the project thereafter. Group companies. The Company is now working to further cific countermeasures to be considered. JXTG Holdings and JXTG Nippon Oil & Energy since fiscal Furthermore, ESG-related risks pertaining to existing enhance cyber security countermeasures for the entire JXTG Impact level 1 Negligible impact on the Group as a whole; can be 2018, and we plan to deploy systems for other Group compabusinesses are managed and monitored appropriately within Group. managed by the operating company. No Group-wide nies starting in fiscal 2019. the framework of the Company s CSR promotion structure. Furthermore, JXTG Nippon Oil & Energy participates in the response required. Furthermore, the Company established the JXTG Holdings Cybersecurity Council, established by the government of Japan Risk Management Regulations for Group Management in April Crisis Management in April 2019, as an important infrastructure provider. The Probability 2019. The internal control activities will be carried out along When crises or emergency situations arise that may significantly council shares information among government institutions, Probability 3 The event has already occurred, or it has occurred at with risk management activities based on the regulations as affect the management of the JXTG Group, the Company cyber businesses and research institutions, and discusses least once over the past two to three years. It is expected to occur within the next two to three well as risk management regulations of each Group company. exercises overall control and has prepared the Rules for Renecessary measures. years. sponding to Crises and Emergencies, which specifies measures WEB The JXTG Group s Basic Policy on Internal Control System Probability 2 The event occurs at least once every 10 years. is published on our website. to be taken to minimize any damage that may occur. It is expected to occur within the next five to 10 years. https://www.hd.jxtg-group.co.jp/english/company/system/pdf/policy.pdf The Crisis Management Department of the Company functions as the standing organizational unit in charge of crisis Probability 1 The event has occurred less than one time in the past 10 years or not at all. Internal Control System response and management. The general manager of this It is expected to occur at least 10 years in the future. department acts as head of this crisis response unit, and when Enterprise risk management (ERM) system such situations arise at the Company and Group companies, In fiscal 2018, we formulated Risk Management Regulations for operating procedures require that the situation and measures to Group Management and Operational Guidelines, which contain Management strategy be taken be reported immediately to the head of the crisis basic matters concerning this ERM process. Both took effect response unit. on April 1, 2019. In addition, depending on the magnitude of the crisis, the In fiscal 2019, following these regulations, we will continuCompany may, at its discretion, form a crisis response headInternal control system ously identify, assess and respond to risk events. quarters headed by the president of the Company or a joint Furthermore, the core operating companies, JXTG Nippon crisis response headquarters with JXTG Group companies to Oil & Energy, JX Nippon Oil & Gas Exploration, and JX Nippon Companies Act/ respond quickly and appropriately to the crisis, thereby fulfilling Mining & Metals, each have established and are operating an internal control the social mission of the JXTG Group. ERM system based on their individual business operations and characteristics. Internal control at Financial Instruments Departments in charge of risk management of the Compaand Exchange Act/ each organization ny and its core operating companies work closely together to internal control share information on risks. If a risk event that could seriously impact the JXTG Group s management is identified at a core 19 JXTG REPORT ESG DATA BOOK 2019 JXTG REPORT ESG DATA BOOK 2019 20 Comparative Table with Comparative Table with Governance Report Environmental Report Social Report Data GRI Standards Governance Report Environmental Report Social Report Data GRI Standards Corporate Governance Compliance Corporate Governance Compliance Framework Framework Risks and Opportunities Concerning Climate Change Climate change awareness The JXTG Group has identified climate change as a signifinomic growth and energy demand using the World Energy Outlook (WEO) published by the International Energy Compliance cant source of management strategy risks and opportuniAgency (IEA). ties. Climate change risks and opportunities have been in・In the preparation of our Long-Term Vision, we conducted corporated into our strategy formulation processes and are scenario analysis which also covered the Sustainable Dereflected in our midto long-term management strategies. velopment Scenarios (SDS), an extreme scenario where In addition, the Company signed the statement of supthe world rapidly moves away from carbon, based on the port for the recommendations of the Task Force on Cligoals in the Paris Agreement, following the New Policy In fiscal 2018, the JXTG Group s compliance hotlines mate-related Financial Disclosures (TCFD) on May 27, 2019. Scenario (NPS) in WEO2018. Basic Approach received 104 reports. The TCFD has published recommendations citing the need for companies to disclose information to investors in an Business initiatives The JXTG Group works to achieve thorough compliance, calling appropriate manner with regard to the various risks and op・The results of the scenario analysis indicate advancefor high ethical standards in our Group Philosophy as well as Compliance Inspections ♥ portunities facing companies resulting from climate change ments in a low-carbon, recycling-oriented society, digital our Code of Conduct. to enable investors to make informed investment decisions. transformation, and lifestyle changes as long-term global Significant cases in which the JXTG Group was subject to Compliance inspections are conducted annually as an initiative As a company with a duty to provide a stable supply of trends. Based on these trends, we formulated our Longadministrative penalties due to legal violations in fiscal 2018 are to proactively ascertain our state of compliance with laws, energy and materials, the JXTG Group will continue to acTerm Vision, which includes contribution to a low-carbon, stated under Compliance Violations on p. 24. contracts, and corporate regulations at each workplace. tively promote ESG initiatives for the realization of a sustainrecycling-oriented society. Through interviews by managers with each member of their able society. We will also disclose information on our busi・Our diverse business operations entail energy, resources staff, issues with compliance spanning the entire scope of ness activities following the TCFD s recommendations to and materials. As such, we face risks related to the transiJXTG Group Code of Conduct (excerpt) operations are identified, and solutions are developed and every extent possible through our integrated report and othtion to a low-carbon society as well as various business implemented. This functions as the core of the JXTG Group s er means. opportunities for contributing to a low-carbon society, in 1. Compliance compliance promotion structure. the areas of natural gas, electricity, renewable energy, (1) We ensure compliance with laws, contracts, and corfunctional materials, and electronic materials, etc. porate regulations and follow social norms and cus・We will focus on developing and strengthening businesses toms in an appropriate manner. Compliance Training ♥ indicated as mainstays of the future in our Medium-Term (2) We shall neither ignore nor participate in any compliManagement Plan (overseas business, electricity and gas ance violations. Climate change initiatives businesses, and technology-based businesses), as they JXTG Group Philosophy cards and JXTG Group Code of Conduct handbooks are given to all executives and employees Governance also contribute to the transition to a low-carbon society. Discussions are held by the Executive Council and Board of of the JXTG Group to instill awareness that each individual is Compliance Promotion Structure responsible for compliance in his or her day-to-day business Directors on the risks and opportunities of climate change at For more information on our Long-Term Vision to 2040, least quarterly. These discussions are attended by the officer please see pp. 13–16 of the Integrated Report. operations. responsible for overseeing the impacts that climate change The JXTG Group Compliance Committee, chaired by the officer We also conduct training on topics related to compliance, has on our business operations. (director) responsible for the Legal & Corporate Affairs Departsuch as anti-monopoly laws. In fiscal 2018, training was conSpecifically, these discussions involve reviewing and Risk Management ment of JXTG Holdings, has been established under the JXTG ducted for Group companies for the following: compliance with confirming our midto long-term business strategy based The Company s Corporate Planning Department developed Group CSR Council, which is chaired by the president of JXTG competition laws, compliance with laws governing the treaton the risks and opportunities of climate change as well as and has been implementing an ERM system based on the Holdings. The committee adopts policies for actions related to ment of subcontractors, and the whistle-blowing system. reductions in CO2 emissions, including the progress under COSO ERM framework since fiscal 2017. compliance matters that must be addressed by the Group as a the Medium-Term Environmental Management Plan. For details, please see p. 19 Enterprise Risk Managewhole, and reports on the results of these activities. Initiatives to Prevent Bribery and ment (ERM). Corruption Strategy Whistle-Blowing System In formulating the JXTG Group Long-Term Vision to 2040, we Indicators and Targets (Compliance Hotlines) The JXTG Group will not tolerate bribery in any form. We have conducted a scenario analysis, based on demand forecasts The JXTG Group has formulated the Medium-Term Enviinternal regulations in place to prevent bribery at our Group and other factors, covering the main business fields that are ronmental Management Plan (fiscal 2017–2019) and esTo detect legal violations in the early stages and take prompt companies inside and outside of Japan, and all officers and expected to be impacted by climate change. tablished environmental targets for fiscal 2030, aimed at corrective actions, principal Group companies have set up employees actively work under a clear commitment by mancontributing to the development of a low-carbon, recywhistle-blowing systems (compliance hotlines) for their employagement of all Group companies to prevent bribery. Scenario analysis cling-oriented society. For details, please see p. 27 Plan ees and those of our contractors as well. In addition to reporting In addition, as indicated below, we have established and ・In the energy segment, we have regularly analyzed the and Targets. within Group companies, whistle-blowers, who may elect to published the JXTG Group Anti-Corruption Policy, which clearly global and long-term outlook for population trends, ecoremain anonymous, can also make reports to designated states that the JXTG Group will not engage in corrupt practices. external attorneys-at-law. Specifically, a mechanism has been put in place to check We are now working to set up similar hotlines for overseas for bribery involving travel expenses, business entertainment, subsidiaries in accordance with the circumstances of each gift giving, and donations, taking into consideration the laws country. At certain overseas subsidiaries, we have already and regulations of each country. We also implement third-party introduced in-house whistle-blowing systems that accept due diligence procedures to prevent our involvement in bribery reports in multiple languages. through a third party such as an agent, agency, or distributor. ♥： Indicates the Group s top CSR priorities. Please see pp. 5–6. 21 JXTG REPORT ESG DATA BOOK 2019 JXTG REPORT ESG DATA BOOK 2019 22 Comparative Table with Comparative Table with Governance Report Environmental Report Social Report Data GRI Standards Governance Report Environmental Report Social Report Data GRI Standards Corporate Governance Corporate Governance Framework Compliance Framework Compliance Employees can access relevant internal regulations at any influence over the duties of the other party. 2. Compliance with Applicable Laws and Regula1. Basic Approach time via the company s in-house intranet or other means. They • Actions complicit in corrupt practices: Actions including judicial intertions Among others, companies have a corporate social responalso undergo various forms of compliance training on the ference, concealment of corrupt earnings, money laundering, and inThe JXTG Group complies with applicable laws and regulastigation, assistance or conspiracy to commit corrupt practices. sibility to appropriately honor their tax liabilities in the counprevention of bribery. In this manner, we are working to raise tions in the countries and regions where it conducts its busitries and areas in which they conduct their business activi• Employees: Employees, contract workers, and part-time employees employee awareness of this important issue. ness activities. of the JXTG Group, temporary workers dispatched to the JXTG ties. Internal audits and other means are used to continuously Group, and other persons subject to the instructions or orders of the 3. Prohibited Actions JXTG Group. 2. Compliance with Applicable Laws and Regulamonitor whether these mechanisms are functioning properly. The JXTG Group prohibits, both directly and indirectly, cor• Public servant: Includes, but is not limited to, national government tions The results of monitoring are reported to the Company s Board employees, local government employees, persons engaged in official rupt practices along with actions complicit in corrupt pracWe comply with the relevant tax laws and regulations in the of Directors through the CSR promotion structure and the tices among its officers and employees, etc., both inside duties for international institutions, persons deemed to be engaged in countries and areas in which we conduct our business acpublic duties per laws and regulations, and officers and employees of Internal Control Council. Furthermore, we have a system in and outside of Japan, regardless of whether the other party tivities. We conduct our business activities in accordance companies effectively controlled by a national government or local place to promptly detect and rectify problems through our is a public servant or a private individual. government. with the purposes of the rules regarding international tax whistle-blowing system. matters (such as the OECD Transfer Pricing Guidelines for 4. Management of Payment Records Multinational Enterprises and Tax Administrations and the In fiscal 2018, there were no occurrences of serious violaIn cases where officers and employees, etc., of the JXTG Base Erosion and Profit Shifting Project). tions related to bribery or corruption, and no internal disciplinary Group provide money or other benefits to third parties inmeasures related to such violations. volved in business execution processes, the JXTG Group 3. Fostering Awareness of Tax Compliance The Group participates in the United Nations Global Comwill appropriately retain evidence of such transactions, and Compliance Violations Through continuous training concerning tax matters and require that the money or other benefits be recorded in acother relevant training, we make efforts to maintain and impact, and actively supports the 10 Principles, including anti-corcounting records, accurately and without exception, in prove our awareness of tax compliance. ruption. terms of amount, accounting item, etc., in order to prevent In 2018, Nippo Corporation, a member of the JXTG Group, off-the-books handling. received a cease and desist order along with a surcharge 4. Optimization of Tax Costs payment order of 134.24 million yen from the Japan Fair Trade By using the Advance Pricing Arrangement and other releAnti-Corruption Policy 5. Training vant systems, we attempt to obtain agreement with tax auCommission for violating Japan s Antimonopoly Act during The JXTG Group will provide appropriate training to its offithorities, and make efforts to reduce risks and optimize two-layered sound-proofing pavement work for the Tokyo cers and employees, etc., to ensure that this policy is approcosts. Based on the basic rules on the prevention of bribery and priately implemented in the business activities of all JXTG Metropolitan Government, pavement work for Tokyo Port corruption established within 7. Equitable and fair transacGroup companies. Terminal Corporation and pavement work for Narita International 5. Establishment of Relationships of Trust with tions and 8. Appropriate relationships with governments and Airport Corporation. Nippo Corporation also received a 30-day Tax Authorities 6. Penalties for Violations At the request of tax authorities, we timely and properly propublic administrations of the JXTG Group Code of Conduct, suspension of business order for part of its operations from the The JXTG Group will impose rigorous penalties on any of its vide them with necessary information. the JXTG Group formulated and published the JXTG Group Ministry of Land, Infrastructure, Transport and Tourism based on officers or employees, etc., found to be in violation of this Anti-Corruption Policy, which clearly stipulates that the JXTG policy, based on the rules of the JXTG Group company the the Construction Industry Act. 6. Applicable Scope Group will not engage in corrupt practices. officer or employee belongs to. In addition, the JXTG Group Nippo Corporation is now carrying out measures such as This policy applies to all officers and employees of the JXTG Going forward, we will continue to raise awareness of and will impose rigorous penalties on advisors, consultants, training on Japan s Antimonopoly Act and regular audits (moniGroup. All business partners involved in the JXTG Group s require compliance with this policy within the scope of applicaagents, contractors, etc., hired by the JXTG Group if they toring of sales representatives) performed by its in-house legal business activities will be requested to cooperate with this are found to be in violation of this policy. policy. tion of the JXTG Group Code of Conduct. In addition to applydepartment in an effort to prevent reoccurrence of such violaing this policy within the JXTG Group, we will request the 7. Compliance System tions in the future. JXTG Holdings will continue to provide 7. Positioning cooperation of companies in our value chain as well. The presidents of all JXTG Group companies bear a responguidance to Nippo Corporation to ensure that it maintains This policy supplements the provisions of the JXTG Group sibility to ensure that their officers and employees, etc., compliance with applicable laws and regulations. Philosophy and the JXTG Group Code of Conduct. abide by this policy. In addition, officers or employees, etc., of the JXTG Group who detect any action that violates or could violate this policy are required to report such action immediately to their company. Tax Matters Policy JXTG Group Anti-Corruption Policy 8. Applicable Scope Companies have a corporate social responsibility to appropriDisclosure Policy The JXTG Group conducts its business activities under the This policy applies to all officers and employees of the JXTG ately honor their tax liabilities in the countries and areas in which JXTG Group Philosophy, which states that we will contribute Group. All business partners involved in the JXTG Group s to the development of our communities and help to ensure business activities will be requested to cooperate with this they conduct their business activities. Therefore, we have The Company is fully aware that the timely and proper discloa vibrant future through creation and innovation in energy, policy. formulated the JXTG Group Tax Matters Policy as follows. sure of corporate information is a key element of healthy capital resources, and materials. markets. Accordingly, the Company makes efforts to ensure This policy was formulated as a guideline for the entire 9. Positioning prompt, appropriate, and fair disclosure of information to Group to prevent corrupt practices along with actions comThis policy supplements the provisions of the JXTG Group shareholders and other investors with the aim of promoting plicit in corrupt practices, as well as to fulfill its corporate rePhilosophy and the JXTG Group Code of Conduct. sponsibilities to society. JXTG Group Tax Matters Policy transparency in management. Systems are in place to obtain, manage, and disclose Notes: • JXTG Group: JXTG Holdings and the subsidiaries of JXTG Holdings, The JXTG Group conducts its business activities under the 1. Basic Approach information on the Company as well as information on including both those directly and indirectly owned. Under this policy, officers and employees, etc., of the JXTG Group Philosophy, which states that we will contribute • Corrupt practices: Bribery, embezzlement, coerced benefit sharing, to the development of our communities and help to ensure JXTG Group companies quickly and accurately. InformaJXTG Group, both inside and outside of Japan, are rebid-rigging and other acts that involve the abuse of the authority or a vibrant future through creation and innovation in energy, tion that is subject to the Timely Disclosure Rules is made quired to comply with laws on the prevention of corrupt position of oneself or a third party. practices in Japan and other countries and prevent corresources, and materials. public through the timely disclosure system (TDnet) pro• Bribery: Refers to both giving bribes, where money or other interests rupt practices as well as actions complicit in corrupt This policy was formulated as a guideline for the entire vided by the Tokyo Stock Exchange and others, and the or benefits are offered, promised or actually given, and receiving practices. Group in fulfilling its responsibility to carry out its tax obligabribes, where interests or benefits are requested or actually received, same information is made available on the Company s for the purpose of obtaining interests or benefits by wielding improper tions appropriately. website. Information that is not subject to the Timely Disclosure Rules is disclosed proactively based on basic 23 JXTG REPORT ESG DATA BOOK 2019 JXTG REPORT ESG DATA BOOK 2019 24 Comparative Table with Governance Report Environmental Report Social Report Data GRI Standards Corporate Governance Framework Compliance policies and disclosure standards. 3. Disclosure Standards The Company has prepared Rules for the Prevention of The Company shall disclose material information, including Insider Trading, and systems have been created to cominformation about financial results, and decisions and events municate regulations regarding insider trading throughout likely to influence investment decisions, in compliance with the JXTG Group. applicable laws and regulations including the Companies Act, the Financial Instruments and Exchange Act and other laws and regulations, and the Tokyo Stock Exchange and Disclosure Framework and Workflow other exchanges rules on timely disclosure of corporate information by issuers of listed securities ( Timely Disclosure Information on Rules ). In addition to information required to be disclosed Decisions Events 情報開示の体制とフロー Financial Results by the Timely Disclosure Rules, the Company shall also proEach division and Group company of JXTG Holdings actively disclose other information in response to the needs and wishes of shareholders and investors. Report 4. Group Systems and Procedures for Timely Director Responsible Disclosure of Company Information Environmental Report Discussion/Report1 As the JXTG Group s holding company, the Company oversees the management of JXTG Group companies. The Priority Fields for CSR Activities Representative Director 2 Company shall establish systems and procedures to expeBoard of Directors ditiously and accurately gather, manage, and disclose inforDisclosure directive mation about not only itself but also JXTG Group compaHigh Ethical Standards Information Disclosure Officer nies. A flowchart of the JXTG Group s timely disclosure (General Manager of Finance & Investor Relations Department) procedures is shown at left. Corporate activities are contingent upon a Compliance Disclosure execution 5. Information Disclosure Methods Securities Exchanges Information to which the Timely Disclosure Rules apply shall healthy global environment. Recognizing that Safety and Environment be disclosed by the Company via the Tokyo Stock Expreservation of the global environment is an (Followed promptly by disclosure on the Company’s website) change s TDnet information disclosure system. In addition, ¹ Whether timely disclosure is required is determined through consultation among after disclosure, the Company shall promptly post the same important issue shared by all humankind, the Human Rights the director responsible, the general managers of the General Administration, Leinformation on its website. gal & Corporate Affairs, and Controller departments, the information disclosure officer (general manager of the Finance & Investor Relations Department), and the For information not subject to disclosure per the Timely JXTG Group has included environmental general managers of any other relevant departments or offices. Disclosure Rules, the Company shall accurately and imparconservation as a standard in its Group Code of Human Resource Development ² Disclosure of information regarding events that require urgent disclosure may be tially communicate the information to shareholders and invesmade on the authority of a representative director without being reported to the Board of Directors. tors in accord with the above Basic Policy and Disclosure Conduct and as a priority field for CSR activities Standards. Health as part of its efforts to contribute to the 6. Quiet Periods (periods during which inquiries on financial results are declined) development of a sustainable society through its Quality JXTG Group Disclosure Policy To prevent information leaks concerning financial results, the business activities. Company shall observe quiet periods for three weeks before The JXTG Group conducts its business activities under the it publicly reports its financial results. During quiet periods, For data pertaining to the Environmental Report, Social Contribution JXTG Group Philosophy, which states that we will contribute the Company shall refrain from answering any questions or to the development of our communities and help to ensure otherwise commenting about its financial results. However, please see the Data section of this report. a vibrant future through creation and innovation in energy, if a substantial deviation from the previously announced resources, and materials. earnings forecast comes to light during a quiet period, the This policy was formulated as a guideline for disclosing Company shall disclose such information. material information in an accurate and clear manner. 7. Applicable Scope 1. Basic Approach This policy applies to all officers and employees of the JXTG The JXTG Group fully recognizes that adequate and timely Group. All business partners involved in the JXTG Group s disclosure of company information is a cornerstone of business activities will be requested to cooperate with this sound capital market formation. The Company shall enpolicy. deavor to expeditiously, appropriately, and impartially disclose information to shareholders and investors to establish 8. Positioning a highly transparent corporate management. This policy supplements the provisions of the JXTG Group Philosophy and the JXTG Group Code of Conduct. 2. Compliance with Applicable Laws and Regulations The JXTG Group complies with the laws, ordinances and regulations applicable in the countries and regions where it conducts its business activities. JXTG Holdings, Inc., ( the Company ) has adopted Insider Trading Prevention Regulations. Through these internal regulations, the Company has established controls to promote Group-wide awareness of insider trading regulations. 25 JXTG REPORT ESG DATA BOOK 2019 JXTG REPORT ESG DATA BOOK 2019 26 Comparative Table with Comparative Table with Governance Report Environmental Report Social Report Data GRI Standards Governance Report Environmental Report Social Report Data GRI Standards Environmental Initiatives to Initiatives to Promote the Management of Initiatives to Prevent Initiatives for Biodiversity Environmental Initiatives to Initiatives to Promote the Management of Initiatives to Prevent Management Prevent Global Warming 3Rs Chemical Substances Environmental Pollution Initiatives for Biodiversity Management Prevent Global Warming 3Rs Chemical Substances Environmental Pollution Major Initiatives for Achieving the Medium-Term Environmental Management Plan and Results in Fiscal 2018 1. Targets for reduction in CO2 emissions (compared to 2009) ♥ Reduction in CO2 Emissions Amount of reduction in CO2 emissions (1) Reduction in CO2 emissions at 環境マネジメント Environmental Management 1.52 million tons (Million tons) Group production sites FY2009 FY2016 FY2017 FY2018 FY2019 FY2030 Energy conservation 1.07 million tons (Baseline year) Results Results Results (environmental Medium-term target) (environmental Long-term target) CO2-EOR* 450 thousand tons -0.80 -0.88 -0.90 -0.95 -1.50 (2) Reduction in CO2 emissions other 1.08 million tons -0.96 -1.07 -1.09 -1.15 than at Group production sites -0.13 -0.45 -0.43 -0.45 2. Waste-to-landfill ratio (actual) ♥ -1.89 -1.80 -0.16 -0.18 -0.17 (1) Thorough separation of waste, -2.56 -2.60 -2.72 Basic Approach Plan and Targets and reuse and recycling 0.9% (vs. target ○0.07) (vs. target ±0) -0.50 * CO2-EOR (Enhanced Oil Recovery): Technology for the im-0.28 -4.08 proved recovery of oil through the injection of CO2. This techAs part of its responsibilities as a corporate group involved in The JXTG Group has formulated the Medium-Term Environnology simultaneously increases production of crude oil and ■ Energy: Scope 1 and 2 the supply of energy, resources, and materials, the JXTG Group mental Management Plan (fiscal 2017–2019) and established reduces emissions of CO2 into the atmosphere by transportEmissions ■ Energy: Scope 3 ing the CO2, captured out of the processed flue gas from a ＊ maintains a proper understanding of the impact of its business environmental targets for fiscal 2030, aimed at contributing to coal-fired power plant, to an oil field, and injecting and stor29.15 ■ Oil and gas exploration: Scope 1 ing the CO2 into legacy fields. * Scope 1 and 2 emissions ■ Metals: Scope 1 and 2 activities on climate change risks and natural capital. In addition, the development of a low-carbon, recycling-oriented society. environmental conservation has been included as a standard in We are now moving ahead with relevant environmental activities Major initiatives for reducing CO2 emissions ♥ Main initiatives for reducing waste-to-landfill ratio ♥ the JXTG Group Code of Conduct, and the environment has under this plan and these targets. Use of sludge, soot and dust as raw materials for cement Introduction of highly energy efficient facilities at refineries and smelters been identified as a priority field for the Group s CSR activities. The JXTG Group Long-Term Vision to 2040, announced in Optimization of equipment operations Recovery of valuable metals from waste catalysts The JXTG Group has set environmental targets as part of May 2019, contains contribute to a low-carbon, recycling-oriCO2 separation and capture, etc., with the CO2-EOR project our efforts to contribute to the development of a sustainable ented society as one of our envisioned goals for 2040. Toward Increased sales of environmentally friendly products society. the realization of our vision, we plan to formulate the next Medium-Term Management Plan, which is set to begin in fiscal 2020. Structure through the JXTG Group CSR Council. JXTG Group Code of Conduct (excerpt) In addition, we have signed the statement of support for the In addition, chief executives and environmental management recommendations of the Task Force on Climate-Related FinanThe JXTG Group Environment & Safety Committee is chaired by officers have been appointed for EMS operation, and environ3. Environmental conservation cial Disclosures (TCFD) and are now taking steps to enhance the officer (director) responsible for the Safety, Health & Environment-related departments have been established at each Group (1) We recognize that we are stewards of the environment disclosures on how climate change affects our business. For ment Department at JXTG Holdings. This committee has been company. and its limited resources. We strive to conserve biodidetails, refer to p. 21. established under the JXTG Group CSR Council, which is The Group has also obtained certification for ISO 14001, a set versity and natural capital, including, but not limited to, chaired by the president of JXTG Holdings. of international standards for environmental management, at many water, soil, and the atmosphere, and contribute to the development of a sustainable society. The Environment & Safety Committee deliberates environof its business sites where the EMS has been adopted (72 (2) We strive to promote renewable energy and energy ment-related matters and confirms operation of the Environmental business sites in total). Fifty-six of these business sites have Environmental Targets in the JXTG Group s Management System (EMS) across the entire Group, and results obtained certification, representing a certification rate of 78%. conservation in order to contribute to the development Medium-Term Environmental Management of a low-carbon society. are reported to the Executive Council and Board of Directors Plan (Fiscal 2017–2019) and for Fiscal 2030 (3) We strive to contribute to the establishment of a circular economy by reducing, reusing and recycling, while JXTG Group Environmental Management Promotion Structure using resources effectively and efficiently. 1. Reduction in CO2 emissions along the entire (4) We strive to take actions to promote sustainable prosupply chain ♥ JXTG Holdings duction and consumption for the benefit of society (as compared with FY2009) Monitoring/Supervision Board of Directors Body Responsible for while taking the same actions throughout our value JXTG Group CSR Council Risk Management Medium-term target (FY2019): Reduction of Reporting Collaboration chain, including, but not limited to, resource developMonitoring/Supervision (Chaired by the president of JXTG Holdings) 2.72 million tons Internal Control Council ment, procurement, production, distribution and sales. Executive Council FY2030 target: Reduction of 4.08 million tons Reporting 2. Waste-to-landfill ratio ♥ JXTG Group Environment & Safety Committee Maintain zero emissions (waste-to-landfill ratio (Chaired Health & Environment Department at JXTG Holdings ) by the officer (director) responsible for the Safety, Meets twice a year, in principle of less than 1%) Environment Meeting Held once each quarter, in principle JXTG Holdings Group JXTG Nippon Oil & Energy Group JX Nippon Oil & Gas Exploration Group JX Nippon Mining & Metals Group Chief Executive Chief Executive Chief Executive Chief Executive Environmental Management Officer Environmental Management Officer Environmental Management Officer Environmental Management Officer Environment-related department Environment-related department Environment-related department Environment-related department Note: See CSR Management on pp. 5–11 for an overview of the Group s CSR promotion structure. ♥： Indicates the Group s top CSR priorities. Please see pp. 5–6. 27 JXTG REPORT ESG DATA BOOK 2019 JXTG REPORT ESG DATA BOOK 2019 28 Comparative Table with Comparative Table with Governance Report Environmental Report Social Report Data GRI Standards Governance Report Environmental Report Social Report Data GRI Standards Environmental Initiatives to Initiatives to Promote the Management of Initiatives to Prevent Initiatives for Biodiversity Environmental Initiatives to Initiatives to Promote the Management of Initiatives to Prevent Management Prevent Global Warming 3Rs Chemical Substances Environmental Pollution Initiatives for Biodiversity Management Prevent Global Warming 3Rs Chemical Substances Environmental Pollution Environmental Audits Major Initiatives All business sites that have obtained ISO 14001 certification are subject to internal audits once a year. They also undergo Environmental Education With the aim of raising environmental awareness even further, periodic reviews by a third-party certification body to maintain their certification. 環境マネジメント Initiatives to Prevent Global Warming the Group holds e-learning sessions for employees and provides regular rank-based education, training and drills, for the Environmental Accidents purpose of instilling awareness of the Group s basic environThere were no environmental accidents in fiscal 2018. Going mental policies and business plans, as well as various laws and forward, we will continue our accident prevention efforts. regulations. Changes in Total GHG Emissions Basic Approach CO2 Other than CO2 (Million tons) 30 29.62 29.63 28.89 The JXTG Group is working to reduce CO2 emissions across 0.15 0.15 Overview of the JXTG Group s Environmental Impact 0.15 the entire supply chain in order to contribute to the development 20 of a low-carbon society. To achieve this, we are reducing CO2 Input-Output of the JXTG Group (results from fiscal 2018) 29.47 29.47 28.74 emissions by promoting energy conservation during the produc10 (The graphic illustrates both the CO2 emissions from business activities and those attributable to the consumption of products) tion stage (business activities), as well as developing and selling environmentally friendly products that have a lower environmen0 INPUT OUTPUT tal impact, while also expanding our renewable energy busi2016 2017 2018 (FY) Transportation of Notes: Calculated in accordance with the Act on Promotion of Global Warming raw materials ness. Countermeasures. For information on our environmental management strucFor detailed data, see p. 79 of the Data section. CO2 emissions ture, see p. 28. Energy Consumption Intensity for Oil Refining 28.74 million tons (Oil equivalent consumption volume (kL)/Crude distillation unit equivalent throughput (thousand kL)) Response to Climate Change 10.0 8.28 8.18 8.40 Based on the results of environmental impact assessments 8.0 SOx emissions conducted under the environmental management system at Product manufacture 13 thousand tons our refineries and other business sites, we carry out emer6.0 Fuel consumption gency training drills for flooding and tidal surges and 4.0 11.32 million kL NOx emissions implement initiatives to prevent heat stroke. 2.0 For a description of our company-wide initiatives on cliOUT 17 thousand tons mate change and information on TCFD, see p. 21. 0 2016 2017 2018 (FY) Electricity consumption Note: Covers the refining sites of the JXTG Nippon Oil & Energy Group. 4,216 million kWh COD emissions Energy Consumption Intensity for Smelting and Refining IN Domestic distribution 1 thousand tons Initiatives at Production Sites* ♥ (GJ of heat /ton of refined copper produced) Service water consumption and sales 20.0 0.2 billion tons Energy Conservation Landfill disposal 15.0 The Group s CO2 emissions in fiscal 2018 totaled 28.74 million 13.6 13.6 13.3 14 thousand tons tons, slightly less than the previous fiscal year. 10.0 Seawater consumption At our refineries and plants, we are engaged in efforts to 1.5 billion tons increase the number and efficiency of heat exchangers and 5.0 introduce higher efficiency rotary equipment. 0 CO2 emissions attributable to Our crude oil refining energy consumption intensity wors2016 2017 2018 (FY) product consumption by customers Product consumption ened by 0.2 points due to a lower operation rate and other Note: Covers the smelting and refining sites of the JX Nippon Mining & Metals Group. CO2 emissions factors. OUT The energy consumption intensity of our smelting and CO2 Emissions Intensity for Smelting and Refining 226.11 million tons refining facilities was 13.3 GJ/t and the intensity of CO2 emis(t-CO2/ton of refined copper produced) sions was 0.82 t-CO2/t. Both figures improved compared to the 1.5 previous year. 1.0 0.86 0.86 In fiscal 2018, the Group invested around 3.08 billion yen in 0.82 Notes: CO2 emissions calculated based on the Act on Promotion of Global Warming Countermeasures. CO2 emissions from the consumption of electricity calculated using facilities for energy conservation. Going forward, we remain 0.5 Emission Factors by Business Operator. CO2 emissions attributable to consumption by customers calculated using the latest oil product sales volumes (for JXTG Nippon Oil & Energy) in Japan based on the committed to promoting greater energy conservation by introBasic Guidelines on Accounting for Greenhouse Gas Emissions Throughout the Supply Chain. ducing energy-saving technologies and optimizing operations at 0 2016 2017 2018 (FY) our refineries and plants. Note: Covers the smelting and refining sites of the JX Nippon Mining & Metals Group. * Scope 1 and Scope 2 as defined in the GHG Protocol. ♥： Indicates the Group s top CSR priorities. Please see pp. 5–6. 29 JXTG REPORT ESG DATA BOOK 2019 JXTG REPORT ESG DATA BOOK 2019 30 Comparative Table with Comparative Table with Governance Report Environmental Report Social Report Data GRI Standards Governance Report Environmental Report Social Report Data GRI Standards Environmental Initiatives to Initiatives to Promote the Management of Initiatives to Prevent Initiatives for Biodiversity Environmental Initiatives to Initiatives to Promote the Management of Initiatives to Prevent Management Prevent Global Warming 3Rs Chemical Substances Environmental Pollution Initiatives for Biodiversity Management Prevent Global Warming 3Rs Chemical Substances Environmental Pollution Breakdown of GHG Emissions Other Than CO2 Supporting Research on Hydrogen Energy Renewable Energy and Hydrogen Advancement of Renewable Energy Power (Fiscal 2018) Supply through the ENEOS Hydrogen Trust Supply Business Initiatives Generation Business Total emissions other than CO2 Tons 147,664 Fund In order to contribute to the reduction of CO2 emissions through 1. CH4 (methane) Tons 42,259 JXTG Nippon Oil & Energy established the ENEOS Hydrogen As an initiative for the use and supply of low-carbon energy, the the use of clean energy, the JXTG Group is actively engaged in 2. N2O (nitrous oxide) Tons 104,782 Trust Fund in March 2006 in order to help speed up the realizaGroup operates a renewable energy power generation busithe mega solar power generation business using its idle land. 3. HFCs (hydrofluorocarbons) Tons 411 tion of a hydrogen society. ness, which leverages renewable energy sources such as solar Beginning with the start of commercial operation of the Sendai 4. PFCs (perfluorinated compounds) Tons 0 The fund is Japan s first public trust specializing in supportpower, wind power and hydro power, and a hydrogen supply Mega Solar Power Plant in February 2013, the Group has 5. SF6 (sulfur hexafluoride) Tons 212 ing research on the supply of hydrogen energy. The fund is large business. established mega solar power plants in 18 locations nationwide. 6. NF3 (nitrogen trifluoride) Tons 0 enough that a stable supply of research grants worth 50 million In fiscal 2018, the Group began operation of the new Okabe yen each year (up to 10 million yen per project) can be provided Generation Capacity by Energy Source Mega Solar Power Plant, built at the former site of the Okabe (as of June 2019) The main greenhouse gases other than CO2 include CH4, for 30 years to support innovative and pioneering basic reDepot. Oil, etc. (9 sites) 1,077MW produced during crude oil extraction, and N2O, which is emitted search into hydrogen energy supply systems. Thermal (10 sites) The Group is also actively advancing power generation LNG (1 site) 421MW from heating furnaces during the oil refining process. businesses using renewable energies other than solar, including Procurement/Transport Solar (18 sites) 46MW We will continue working to lower these and other GHG biomass, hydro power, wind power and geothermal, and has Hydro (1 site) 5MW emissions. With regard to marine transportation, which primarily involves amassed a total generation capacity of approximately 54 MW Wind (2 sites) 3MW the transport of crude oil to Japan, the Group is making active (as of June 2019). Geothermal (1 site) 0.1MW efforts to use oil tankers with superior delivery efficiency and fuel Outside of Japan, the Group is involved in an offshore wind Initiatives for Operations Outside of efficiency, and to improve fuel consumption by optimizing farm in Taiwan, which is slated to begin operations by DecemProduction Sites* ♥ transportation routes and controlling navigation schedules and Power Generation by Renewable Energy (2018) ber 2021. speeds. Solar 51,078MWh In April 2019, the Group established the Renewable Energy The Group s CO2 emissions from product consumption by Regarding land transportation, in addition to consolidating Department, which will contribute to achieving the 3Es (energy Hydro 28,755MWh customers in fiscal 2018 totaled 226.11 million tons. oil depots and improving the distribution efficiency of tank security, economical efficiency and environment) of future Wind 3,990MWh The JXTG Group is working to reduce CO2 emissions trunks, the Group is working to reduce fuel consumption energy by helping us adapt to the shift to a low-carbon society outside of its production sites by selling environmentally friendly through efforts such as insisting that drivers turn off their enGeothermal 591MWh and to grow the renewable energy business as a mainstay of products. Currently, we are working toward our targets of gines when stopped. the future. Note: The GHG emission factor for JXTG Nippon Oil & Energy s electric power reducing these emissions by 1.15 million tons in fiscal 2019 and business in fiscal 2018 was 0.000509 t-CO2/kWh (after adjustment). by 1.8 million tons in fiscal 2030, both compared to fiscal 2009. Distribution * Scope 3 as defined in the GHG Protocol. The Group is actively implementing power-saving measures at Renewable Energy Power Plants its service stations nationwide through efforts such as the R&D installation of photovoltaic power generation systems and the Muroran Biomass Power Plant (under construction) The JXTG Group spent a total of around 19.1 billion yen on adoption of LED lighting. research and development. Consumption Oga Mega Solar Power Plant Response to Climate Change The Group is promoting greater energy conservation at the consumption stage through the development and sale of Akita Mega Solar Power Plant The JXTG Group is moving ahead with research into climate Akita Wind Power Plant change response in the following fields in order to address environmentally friendly products, which contribute to a lower climate change issues. environmental impact. Toyama Mega Solar Power Plant Rationalization and streamlining of oil refining processes Main environmentally friendly products Sendai Mega Solar Power Plant Cellulose-type bio-ethanol Sakai Mega Solar Power Plant Fuel-efficient lubricants Natural gas (LNG) Iwaki Mega Solar Power Plant A wind turbine Technical development for the manufacture, storage, Liquid crystal polymers Kakinosawa Hydropower Plant transport and supply of hydrogen that contributes to the Hiroshima (JX Nippon Mining & Metals) effective use of renewable energy Electricity generation using renewable energy Mega Solar Power Plant Hitachi Mega Solar Power Plant Development of environmentally friendly products (fuel-efKudamatsu ficient automotive lubricants, etc.) Mega Solar Power Plant Kasumigaura Mega Solar Power Plant WEB See the following for more information on JXTG Nippon Oil & Energy s environmentally friendly products. Kudamatsu No. 2 Okabe Mega Solar Power Plant (Available in Japanese only) Mega Solar Power Plant Asaka Mega Solar Power Plant Technical Development for the Manufacture, Storhttps://www.noe.jxtg-group.co.jp/ecoproducts/ Ohgishima Wind Power Plant age, Transport and Supply of Hydrogen That ConShimoda Onsen Binary Power Plant (JX Nippon Mining & Metals) tributes to the Effective Use of Renewable Energy Collaboration with Business Partners Shimoda Onsen Binary Power Plant Gamagori Mega Solar Power Plant We successfully developed the world s first technology for (Green Procurement) Takamatsu Mega Solar Power Plant manufacturing CO2-free hydrogen at a low cost. This technoloWhen purchasing equipment and materials, the Group practicgy involves converting toluene to methylcyclohexane using es green procurement, taking into account the environmental Masaki Mega Solar Power Plant electrolytic hydrogenation with electricity generated by solar burden and other social impacts. Oita Mega Solar Power Plant power in Australia, and then extracting the hydrogen in Japan. For more information, see p. 69. Going forward, we will work on further development of ●Mega solar ● Biomass ● Hydropower, wind power or geothermal this CO2-free hydrogen manufacturing technology for socie♥： Indicates the Group s top CSR priorities. Please see pp. 5–6. Uruma Mega Solar Power Plant tal implementation, with the goal of realizing a hydrogen soKudamatsu Mega Solar Power Plant ciety and preventing global warming. 31 JXTG REPORT ESG DATA BOOK 2019 JXTG REPORT ESG DATA BOOK 2019 32 Comparative Table with Comparative Table with Governance Report Environmental Report Social Report Data GRI Standards Governance Report Environmental Report Social Report Data GRI Standards Environmental Initiatives to Initiatives to Promote the Management of Initiatives to Prevent Initiatives for Biodiversity Environmental Initiatives to Initiatives to Promote the Management of Initiatives to Prevent Management Prevent Global Warming 3Rs Chemical Substances Environmental Pollution Initiatives for Biodiversity Management Prevent Global Warming 3Rs Chemical Substances Environmental Pollution Building an Integrated Hydrogen Supply System, from Production to Transport and Initiatives to Enhance Business Sales Activities while Reducing CO₂ Initiatives to Promote the 3Rs Hydrogen is a clean energy source that does not emit CO2 during use. Because it enables the use of renewable energy Increasing Crude Oil Production while 環境マネジメント (Reduce, Reuse, Recycle) and untapped energy sources in manufacturing processes, reducing Greenhouse Gas (CO₂) hydrogen is considered an important form of energy for the through CO₂-EOR (Enhanced Oil Recovery) future. JX Nippon Oil & Gas Exploration carries out its business activiIn Japan, hydrogen use has already begun in the field of ties with attention to the reduction of greenhouse gas emismobility. As of April 30, 2019, there were around 3,100 fuel cell sions, a cause of global warming. vehicles (FCVs) nationwide. At 107, Japan has the largest Through its equal-stake joint venture in the state of Texas Basic Approach working to achieve closed loop recycling. number of hydrogen stations in the world, 41 of which are with NRG Energy, Inc., a major power company in the United operated by JXTG Nippon Oil & Energy. States, JX Nippon Oil & Gas Exploration is implementing a As part of our efforts to contribute to the development of a Initiatives to Reduce Waste ♥ Our ENEOS Yokohama Tsunashima Hydrogen Station CO₂-EOR project that increases output from an oil field by recycling-oriented society, the JXTG Group promotes the In fiscal 2018, waste totaled 1.649 million tons, and landfill features a showroom for sharing various forms of information on injecting CO₂, recovered from flue gas at NRG s W.A. Parish effective use of resources and the reduction, reuse, and recywaste after recycling and reuse efforts totaled 14 thousand hydrogen called Suiso Terrace, where active efforts are taking power plant1, into the West Ranch oil field2. cling of waste within the Group. We also contribute to waste tons. place to raise awareness about the growth of hydrogen. CO₂-EOR refers to the injection of CO₂ into depleted oil reduction and resource recycling in greater society through our The waste-to-landfill ratio was 0.9%, indicating that we Moving forward, JXTG Nippon Oil & Energy will leverage its reservoirs, thereby improving oil recovery and storing the recycling and environmental services business. continue to achieve zero emissions (waste-to-landfill ratio of less long-standing infrastructure and expertise for the supply of injected CO₂ securely underground, thus reducing CO₂ emisFor information on our environmental management structhan 1%). automotive fuel to build a streamlined hydrogen supply chain in sions into the air. ture, see p. 28. Specific initiatives for waste reduction include using the Japan, thereby contributing to the realization of a hydrogen This project, as a sustainable business, aims to achieve Information on our targets can be found in the Medicollected particulate matter and sludge released from oil refinersociety. increases of output at legacy oil fields while simultaneously um-Term Environmental Management Plan section on p. 27. ies as raw materials for cement, and the repeated use of reducing CO₂ emissions released into the air. neutralized slag1 at our smelting and refining facilities. The world s largest CO₂ recovery plant, the primary In addition, we use LCA methodology2 in evaluating the facility of the project, was completed on schedule and its Major Initiatives development of certain lubricant products. operation begun in December 2016. As of March 2019, a Zero emissions has also been highlighted as a Group cumulative total of 2.5 million tons of CO₂ was been captured Industry-Academia Collaboration objective in the JXTG Group Medium-Term Environmental through the project. In recent years, the number of researchers and engineers in Management Plan and environmental targets. With this in mind, 1 Japan working in fields related to smelting, refining and recywe will continue to implement proper waste management and The largest thermal electric power plant in the United States. It is located southwest of Houston in the state of Texas. cling nonferrous metals has been declining. In response to this recycling programs. 2 West Ranch oil field is located about 130km southwest of the W.A. Parish power situation, JX Nippon Mining & Metals, in collaboration with the plant. JX Nippon Oil & Gas Exploration holds a 25% interest in the West Ranch oil 1 Neutralized slag: Product generated by the neutralization reaction in the smelting field through its joint venture with NRG. CO2 is transported from the power plant Institute of Industrial Science, the University of Tokyo, launched process. to the oil field via a newly installed pipeline. the Endowed Unit for Nonferrous Metal Resource Recovery 2 LCA methodology: LCA is an acronym for life cycle assessment. LCA methodology involves quantitatively evaluating the environmental effects of product manEngineering (JX Metals Endowed Unit) with the aim of unifying ufacturing throughout the entire life cycle, from procurement of raw materials to the forces of industry, academia and government to energize manufacturing, transport, use, and disposal. Hydrogen Manufacturing and Shipment Center (Naka Ward, Yokohama City) the industry and raise the level of its efforts. Through industry-academia collaboration, the JX Metals Endowed Unit carries Waste-to-Landfill Ratio and ♥ out various initiatives for the development of human resources Landfill Disposal Volume to work on the utilization and development of smelting and refinLandfill disposal volume Waste-to-landfill ratio ing technologies and in the fields of nonferrous base metals and (Thousand tons) (%) rare metals. 20 1.0 For details, see pp. 42–44 of Sustainability Report 2019 0.9 published by JX Nippon Mining & Metals. 0.8 15 0.7 14.0 ENEOS Yokohama Tsunashima HyInterior of Suiso Terrace Research and Development Initiatives 11.8 0.6 0.6 drogen Station and Suiso Terrace CO2 recovery plant JX Nippon Mining & Metals built a testing facility in Tsuruga City, 10 9.3 0.4 Fukui Prefecture in 2010 to develop recycling technologies for lithium ion batteries. It is now working on developing technolo5 0.2 gies for recovering rare metals such as cobalt and lithium from these batteries. 0 0 As part of this effort, the company has almost established a 2016 2017 2018 (FY) fundamental technology to extract, from materials recovered Note: For detailed data, see p. 79 of the Data section. from lithium ion batteries, nickel sulfate and cobalt sulfate of sufficient quality to be reused as raw materials in the manufac♥：Indicates the Group s top CSR priorities. Please see pp. 5–6. ture of lithium ion batteries. In this manner, we are actively 33 JXTG REPORT ESG DATA BOOK 2019 JXTG REPORT ESG DATA BOOK 2019 34 Comparative Table with Comparative Table with Governance Report Environmental Report Social Report Data GRI Standards Governance Report Environmental Report Social Report Data GRI Standards Environmental Initiatives to Initiatives to Promote the Management of Initiatives to Prevent Initiatives for Biodiversity Environmental Initiatives to Initiatives to Promote the Management of Initiatives to Prevent Management Prevent Global Warming 3Rs Chemical Substances Environmental Pollution Initiatives for Biodiversity Management Prevent Global Warming 3Rs Chemical Substances Environmental Pollution Initiatives for the Effective Use of Resources (2) Proprietary Treatment Processes Based on Smelting and Refining Technologies The JXTG Group is working to reduce its use of raw materials by streamlining production and expanding the use of recycled The recycling of nonferrous metals is carried out using uniquely Management of raw materials. JX Nippon Mining & Metals promotes the effective use of developed, efficient and reliable treatment processes, which are based on the technologies we have developed over many years 環境マネジメント Chemical Substances resources by efficiently recovering copper, precious metals, and through our operations at mines, smelters, and refineries. rare metals from recyclable resources, drawing from processes At the Pan Pacific Copper Saganoseki Smelter & Refinery, that harness our smelting technology developed over more than which boasts Asia s largest treatment capacity for recycling a century. In fiscal 2018, 271 thousand tons of the 2.711 million copper and precious metals, energy is conserved by using the tons of raw materials used in the company s business activities excess heat generated from copper concentrate smelting for were recycled resources. melting recycled materials. Basic Approach Management and Detoxification of PCB1 Waste Based on the PCB Special Measures Act Recycling and Environmental Resource-Recycling Initiatives in Pursuit of Zero Based on laws and regulations such as the Pollutant Release The JXTG Group carries out storage notification and systematic Services Business Emissions and Transfer Register (PRTR) Law, the JXTG Group strives to treatment of PCB waste based on Japan s Act on Special properly manage chemical substances and reduce emissions of Measures concerning Promotion of Proper Treatment of PCB JX Nippon Mining & Metals is engaged in an integrated range of such substances. In addition, we are shifting to chemicals with Wastes (PCB Special Measures Act). Products businesses related to nonferrous metals such as copper and Consumers lower impacts on health and the environment. JX Nippon Tomakomai Chemical, which has been certified rare metals. These organically related businesses encompass Used home electronics, etc. Manufacturers We are also committed to properly managing chemical by the Minister of the Environment to provide low-concentration (Urban mining) of end products resource development, metal smelting and refining, recycling (home electronics, substances not covered by these laws and regulations. PCB waste treatment, carries out detoxification operations, vehicles, machinery, and environmental services, and the provision of high-valetc.) thereby contributing to compliance with the Stockholm Convenue-added materials, such as electronic materials. Our midProducts tion on Persistent Organic Pollutants.2 stream recycling and environmental services business, which is Collection system Major Initiatives For details, refer to p. 37. a vein of this value chain, includes environmental services for 1 PCB: Abbreviation for polychlorinated biphenyl. Due to its excellent electric Parts detoxifying industrial waste and the recycling of materials manufacturers Management and Monitoring of Specified insulation properties, this chemical compound was used mainly in applications such as insulating fluids for transformers and capacitors, and carbonless copiers. containing nonferrous metals into refined metals. Utilizing the Recycled Chemical Substances under Japan s However, its production and import are now prohibited. materials key features and strengths of this business, including zero Pollutant Release and Transfer Register Act 2 Stockholm Convention on Persistent Organic Pollutants: A treaty regulating the Materials for production, use, and proper treatment of persistent organic pollutants, including emissions, proprietary treatment processes based on smelting electronic The JXTG Group manages and monitors the release and PCB. components, etc. and refining technologies, and a global collection network, we JX Nippon Mining & transfer amounts of specified chemical substances, such as contribute significantly to the development of a sustainable, Recycling & Environmental Services Division Metals Functional materials benzene, toluene, and xylene, which are found in gasoline, Detoxification of Waste Asbestos business recycling-oriented society. Hitachi Metal Recycling Complex based on Japan s Act on Confirmation, etc. of Release The treatment of waste, including asbestos, which was used in (HMC) Department of Thin film materials Nonferrous business Hitachi Works Tsuruga Plant metals Amounts of Specific Chemical Substances in the Environment large quantities in the past, has become a major social issue. Saganoseki Smelter & Refinery of and Promotion of Improvements to the Management Thereof JX Nippon Environmental Services melts down and detoxiPan Pacific Copper Co., Ltd. Environmental Group: (Pollutant Release and Transfer Register Act). fies asbestos, responding to society s need for waste treatment. 5 companies For fiscal 2018, the emission volume of these substances In fiscal 2018, the company treated approximately 3,988 tons of Business domains of the was 1,828 tons, a reduction of 88 tons from the previous fiscal waste asbestos. Environmental services business Recycling business JX Nippon Mining & Metals Group year, while the transfer volume was 384 tons, a reduction of 24 tons from the previous fiscal year. Compliance with the REACH Regulation (3) Global Collection Network Release of Specified Chemical Substances (Tons) The European Union s Regulation on Registration, Evaluation, At Tomakomai (Hokkaido), Hitachi (Ibaraki Prefecture), Mikkaichi 2,000 1,916 Authorisation and Restriction of Chemicals (REACH Regulation) 1,750 1,828 (Toyama Prefecture), Tsuruga (Fukui Prefecture), and Saganosewent into effect in June 2007. The purpose of this regulation, 1,500 Hitachi Metal Recycling Complex (HMC) ki (Oita Prefecture), we recycle and detoxify recycled materials which is based on precautionary principles, is to standardize the Department of Hitachi Works and industrial waste collected through the nationwide collection 1,000 management of chemicals that are distributed within the EU in network we have built. As the amount of scrap generated in order to identify these chemicals, as well as their risks and 500 Key Features and Strengths of the Recycling Japan has declined, we are enhancing our collection operations environmental impacts. and Environmental Services Business overseas and have established a collection and pre-treatment 0 The JXTG Group respects the intent of the REACH Regula2016 2017 2018 (FY) site in Taichung, Taiwan, and an operating site in Arizona, the tion. The JX Nippon Mining & Metals Group has completed (1) Zero Emissions United States. Transfer of Specified Chemical Substances preliminary registration of products that are subject to the In the processes for detoxification of industrial waste and (Tons) regulation. In addition, JXTG Nippon Oil & Energy has completconversion of recycled materials into reusable resources as 500 ed registration of chemicals that it may export to Europe as 400 408 refined metals, we are pursuing zero emissions, where no 384 follows. secondary waste that requires landfill disposal is produced. Iron 300 Export volume 1,000 tons or more per year November 2010 and other ferrous metals other than nonferrous metals are 200 195 Export volume less than 1,000 tons per year; recovered as slag and used as raw materials for cement and May 2013 100 100 tons or more per year other purposes. By preventing the generation of secondary 0 Export volume less than 100 tons per year; May 2018 waste, we are reducing our environmental impact. 2016 2017 2018 (FY) 1 ton or more per year Note: For detailed data, see p. 79 of the Data section. 35 JXTG REPORT ESG DATA BOOK 2019 JXTG REPORT ESG DATA BOOK 2019 36 Comparative Table with Comparative Table with Governance Report Environmental Report Social Report Data GRI Standards Governance Report Environmental Report Social Report Data GRI Standards Environmental Initiatives to Initiatives to Promote the Management of Initiatives to Prevent Initiatives for Biodiversity Environmental Initiatives to Initiatives to Promote the Management of Initiatives to Prevent Management Prevent Global Warming 3Rs Chemical Substances Environmental Pollution Initiatives for Biodiversity Management Prevent Global Warming 3Rs Chemical Substances Environmental Pollution Guidelines on Chemical Substances in Our to better manage their use in products, and we are working to Products and Management of Chemical mitigate any harmful effects they may have. Substances In addition, we provide essential product safety information Initiatives to JXTG Nippon Oil & Energy has voluntarily established standards for managing the chemical substances used in its products. to customers and others involved with our products using methods such as safety data sheets (SDS). In the event that we 環境マネジメント Prevent Environmental Pollution We have specified prohibited or obsolete substances (such as obtain new information about any hazards or environmental most organochlorine compounds, mercury compounds, and impacts of our products, we promptly update the relevant SDS. lead compounds) and substances that require monitoring (such as phthalates and VOCs including toluene, xylene and the like) Basic Approach Reducing NOx Emissions Nitrogen oxides (NOx), which are also known to cause acid rain, In addition to complying with relevant laws and regulations, the are released into the atmosphere mainly as a component of Low-Concentration PCB Waste Detoxification (JX Nippon Tomakomai Chemical) JXTG Group works to maintain and conserve natural resources exhaust gases from combustion facilities. such as water, soil, and the atmosphere by curbing the further The JXTG Group carries out measures such as using release of environmental pollutants, effectively utilizing water low-NOx boilers at combustion facilities, removing NOx using Since March 2014, when JX Nippon Tomakomai Chemical of detoxifying not only low-concentration PCB waste materesources, and other measures. flue gas denitrizers, and managing emissions using voluntary received certification from the Minister of the Environment as rials but also the transformers, drums, and other housings To prevent environmental pollution, we continuously work to standards. the first low-concentration PCB waste detoxification facility that contain them. Moreover, there are only 12 treatment in Hokkaido, the company has been working to improve its facilities that perform decontamination by means of cleaning mitigate risks by improving our facilities and conducting emerSeventeen thousand tons of NOx were emitted in fiscal treatment capacity. processes. The number and capacity of these facilities is still gency response and other training drills covering items identified 2018, an increase of two thousand tons from the previous fiscal A deadline of March 31, 2027 has been prescribed by inadequate to meet the demand for low-concentration PCB as serious concerns from an environmental perspective through year. law for disposal of waste materials containing PCB. By that waste disposal. the environmental management system of each company. date, the owner must either dispose of such materials or Moving forward, we will maintain stable operations for For information on our environmental management struchave their disposal handled by an agent. However, as of the treatment of industrial waste as part of our efforts to ture, see the Environmental Management section on p. 28. September 2019, there were only 27 incineration facilities in contribute to the environmental conservation of local comJapan, including JX Nippon Tomakomai Chemical, capable munities. Initiatives to Reduce the Release of Air Pollutants Process for Complete Detoxification of Low-Concentration PCB Waste Low-concentration PCB waste (insulating oil, etc.) ❹Bag filters Electrostatic Detoxified Reducing SOx Emissions precipitator vapor Rotary kiln furnace Sulfur oxides (SOx), which are known to cause acid rain, are released into the atmosphere mainly as a component of exhaust gases from combustion facilities. ❶ Fixed-bed furnace The JXTG Group carries out measures such as using fuels Heat separation of PCB with low sulfur content, removing SOx using flue gas desulfuriz❷Secondary ❸Quench ers, and managing emissions using voluntary standards. furnace tower Scrubber Smokestack Thirteen thousand tons of SOx were emitted in fiscal 2018, Housing containing low-concentration After separating out the PCB, the housing is dismantled and copper, steel, PCB waste (transformer, capacitor, etc.) aluminum, and other metals are recycled at a smelter or other facility. about the same as the previous fiscal year. Changes Since Initial Certification Flue gas denitrizer Treated items Treatment capacity Transformers March 2014 Solids: 6 tons/day (certification by Minister Metal scrap (drums, etc.) (3 batches of 2 tons each) Reducing VOC Emissions Waste oil containing low-concentration of the Environment) PCB Waste oil: 8.4 kL Volatile organic compounds (VOCs), which are thought to Waste materials from outside Hokkaido can be accepted without the produce photochemical oxidants through a photochemical March 2015 need for advance consultation with local governments Increased size of objects that can be treated smog reaction with NOx and ultraviolet rays from sunlight, are September 2015 Width: 2.5 meters / Depth: 1.5 meters / Height: 2.3 meters released from places such as storage facilities for petroleum (additional certification Additional treated items: Increase in treatment by Minister of the Capacitors capacity products. Environment) Metal coating scrap containing low-conSolids: 12 tons/day The JXTG Group has installed VOC recovery equipment in centration PCB (3 batches of 4 tons each) Flue gas desulfurizer storage facilities and truck loading facilities. March 2018 Additional treated item: Fifteen thousand tons of VOCs were released in fiscal 2018, (certification by Minister Inorganic sludge (concrete scrap) JX Nippon Tomakomai Chemical rotary kiln furnace of the Environment) a decrease of one thousand tons from the previous fiscal year. The decrease can be attributed to a decline in the storage and handling volume of gasoline intermediates. 37 JXTG REPORT ESG DATA BOOK 2019 JXTG REPORT ESG DATA BOOK 2019 38 Comparative Table with Comparative Table with Governance Report Environmental Report Social Report Data GRI Standards Governance Report Environmental Report Social Report Data GRI Standards Environmental Initiatives to Initiatives to Promote the Management of Initiatives to Prevent Initiatives for Biodiversity Environmental Initiatives to Initiatives to Promote the Management of Initiatives to Prevent Management Prevent Global Warming 3Rs Chemical Substances Environmental Pollution Initiatives for Biodiversity Management Prevent Global Warming 3Rs Chemical Substances Environmental Pollution Reducing the Release of Water Pollutants Preventing Marine Pollution VOC Recovery We manage and monitor pollutants in wastewater through With regard to marine transport of oil, the JXTG Group is regular maintenance of water treatment facilities based on required to comply with the International Convention for the Volatile organic compounds (VOCs) containing hydrocarThe JXTG Nippon Oil & Energy Group s Kiire Terminal voluntary standards that are more rigorous than laws, regulaPrevention of Pollution from Ships (MARPOL), an international bons are released into the air whenever gasoline is pumped recovers, without releasing, the gases that have accumulattions, ordinances, and agreements, including Japan s Water convention developed by the International Maritime Organizafrom a tank truck into a storage tank at a service station. ed inside tankers when loading crude oil, and reuses the Pollution Prevention Act. tion that includes regulations for the prevention of environmental These VOCs are not only a source of photochemical oxiVOCs contained in these gases by absorbing them into the In addition to our efforts at refineries and smelters, we carry pollution by oil and the prohibition of waste discharge into dants, but also cause irritating odors in neighboring commucrude oil. Gases, including odor-causing ones, that are not out continuous operations for the treatment of acid mine oceans and seas. nities and can adversely affect the health of both customers absorbed are broken down. drainage at closed mines. In addition to fully complying with this convention, we take and employees. The JXTG Group was the first in the world to implement further steps to prevent marine pollution, such as taking incinerTherefore, JXTG Nippon Oil & Energy has installed rethis mechanism. This technology is contributing to the adator ash as defined in the convention back to land for proper covery equipment on the ventilation ducts of service station vancement of environmental conservation measures and the disposal rather than discharging it into the ocean. storage tanks, which enables tank trucks to recover these effective utilization of energy. VOCs so that they are not released into the atmosphere. Management of Closed Mines VOC Emissions and Reduction Measures at Refineries Of the 39 closed mines managed by JX Nippon Mining & contact with ores remaining in the mines and tailings in the Storage tanks Shipping facilities Metals, acid mine drainage (AMD) treatment is an ongoing dams and surrounding altered rock. Therefore, the operation Causes of VOC emissions Cause of VOC emissions obligation at 12 mines pursuant to the Mine Safety Act. JX of treatment facilities must be maintained continuously. VOC VOC Oil Nippon Mining Ecomanagement manages these operations ● Changes in air temperature, etc., causing internal air expansion ● Internal air emitted during product loading in the interest of maintaining and restoring the surrounding Closed Mines Where AMD Treatment Is Carried Out ● Internal air emitted during unloading Oil Fixed-roof environment. operations tank Tank truck Twelve closed mines where AMD treatment is carried out The main operations taking place in the management of closed mines include the treatment and detoxification of Reduction of VOC emissions Reduction of VOC emissions AMD, which is strongly acidic and contains heavy metals Hokushin Toyoha ● Gas recovery from ores remaining in the mines and tailings, as well as the VOC vapors emitted from oils such as crude oil, gasoline and Oil Oil naphtha are conducted to the stripper, where they are recovered ● Gas recovery maintenance and protection of tailings and mine shafts. through means such as adsorption and absorption. VOCs emitted from inside the truck during loading Kamikita Fixed-roof tank Stripper operations are conducted to the stripper, where AMD comes from the mine water welling up from mines ● Use of floating-roof tank Namariyama Oyu The roof of the tank stays in contact with the surface of the product, Input Rise/Fall Output they are recovered through means such as and wastewater discharged from mining facilities, and is adsorption and absorption. Tank truck Stripper Hanawa rising and falling with input and output. There is no space inside the tank for gas vapors, so there are few VOC emissions. generated continuously after a mine is closed as a result of Oya Oil Oil Mitate the chemical reaction of rainwater and other water coming in Yoshino Hokuriku Hitachi Taho Effective Utilization of Water the lowest level in Chile of water usage per ton of ore proResources and Reducing the cessed. Release of Water Pollutants At each of its refineries and smelters, the Group has implemented environmental management systems, which are utilized Motoyama AMD treatment facility Gallery inspection at Effective Utilization of Water Resources to assess the environmental impact of water usage and reat Toyoha Mine Hanawa Mine The JXTG Group uses water for purposes such as operating spond accordingly. and cooling power generation facilities at refineries and smeltSoil Contamination Countermeasures Soil Surveys and Countermeasures in Fiscal 2018 ers. Approximately 90% of this water is seawater. (Expenditure: million yen) In fiscal 2018, the volume of water used was 1.74 billion JXTG Group Water Usage and JXTG Nippon Oil & Energy performs systematic surveys on land Surveys Countermeasures tons, and the water discharge volume was 1.83 billion tons. Water Discharge that it owns that has the potential for soil or groundwater Number of Expenditure Number of Expenditure cases cases For the effective use of water resources, the JXTG Group Water usage Water discharge contamination, focusing particular efforts on property where Service stations 116 220 39 767 Seawater Service water Groundwater Ocean River recycles approximately 97% of the water used for cooling at its (municipal potable water, refineries, oil depots, service stations and other facilities are Oil depots 2 4 2 536 surface water, harvested rainwater). Refineries/Business sites 9 10 0 0 refineries. To reduce the amount of water used, smelters that (Billion tons) located. If pollution is detected, we implement appropriate 2.0 Total 127 234 41 1,303 use seawater for cooling have also partially switched to recycled 1.85 1.81 1.83 countermeasures to address it. 0.02 1.74 0.01 0.02 Note: JXTG Nippon Oil & Energy water. 0.02 In addition, Nippo Corporation, a JXTG Group company, 1.5 1.42 0.18 0.18 As part of our continuous efforts to ascertain the status of 0.02 has been involved in the contamination purification business Soil Contamination on Group Property Reported in Fiscal 2018 0.18 water resources, we use tools, such as water risk maps from 1.0 since before Japan s Soil Contamination Countermeasures Act Survey results the World Resource Institute, to verify whether the locations of 1.65 1.80 1.81 took effect. Soil Groundwater 1.54 Category Location Status 0.5 1.22 Scale Scale our business sites in Japan and overseas are in areas of elevatSubstance factor Substance factor ed water risk. Idle land Aichi Benzene 4.80 ー ー Countermeasures 0 completed At the Caserones Copper Mine in Chile, where there is a 2016 2017 2018 2017 2018 (FY) Countermeasures Idle land Aichi Benzene 2.10 ー ー currently under high risk of drought, approximately 80% of the water used in implementation the production process is recycled. As an operating mine, it has Note: For detailed data, see p. 79 of the Data section. Note: JXTG Nippon Oil & Energy 39 JXTG REPORT ESG DATA BOOK 2019 JXTG REPORT ESG DATA BOOK 2019 40 Comparative Table with Comparative Table with Governance Report Environmental Report Social Report Data GRI Standards Governance Report Environmental Report Social Report Data GRI Standards Environmental Initiatives to Initiatives to Promote the Management of Initiatives to Prevent Environmental Initiatives to Initiatives to Promote the Management of Initiatives to Prevent Management Prevent Global Warming 3Rs Chemical Substances Environmental Pollution Initiatives for Biodiversity Initiatives for Biodiversity Management Prevent Global Warming 3Rs Chemical Substances Environmental Pollution Initiatives at the JXTG Nippon Oil & Energy Forest Stewardship and Afforestation Negishi Refinery Activities The JXTG Nippon Oil & Energy Negishi Refinery is one of JXTG Group companies are involved in forest stewardship 環境マネジメント Initiatives for Biodiversity Japan s largest oil refineries, with an area of 2.2 million square meters and a circumference of around 12 kilometers. The area activities that contribute to the preservation of biodiversity. JXTG Nippon Oil & Energy implements forest stewardship in which it is located has a network of ecosystems with a activities called ENEOS no Mori at eight locations across Japan diverse array of organisms inhabiting an expansive green belt in partnership with local governments and the National Land that includes Sankei-en and Negishi Forest Park. Under the Afforestation Promotion Organization（NLAPO） . concept of creating a satoyama, the Negishi Refinery carries out Since 1998, JX Nippon Oil & Gas Exploration has impleactivities for the conservation of biodiversity utilizing the green mented a forest stewardship project called JX Nakajo Forest for Basic Approach Involvement in Biodiversity Initiatives belt（approximately 60,000 square meters） , a hub for the area s the preservation of pine trees on and around the site of its JXTG Nippon Oil & Energy has been a member of the Japan ecosystem network, at the center of the premises. Nakajo Field Office in Niigata Prefecture. The operations of the JXTG Group may impact the environment Business Initiative for Biodiversity（JBIB） , a consortium of Ecosystem surveys were begun in fiscal 2013, and initiaJX Nippon Mining & Metals is also working to maintain the surrounding our operation and production sites. Given the businesses actively working to conserve biodiversity in Japan, tives such as forest thinning, laying of trails（wooden paths）and natural environment by continually engaging in afforestation nature of our business, we consider biodiversity conservation to since 2013 installation of bird-watching sheds were begun in fiscal 2016 activities such as tree planting and thinning, mainly at the sites be an important effort, as stated in the JXTG Group Code of and completed in fiscal 2018. of its closed mines. Conduct. In surveys to date, 170 types of living organisms have been We carry out initiatives with attention to biodiversity in all observed, indicating that many organisms use this grassy area aspects of our business activities. These initiatives include the as their habitat. implementation of environmental impact studies when estabIn fiscal 2018, as a new initiative, we held interactive events lishing new operation and production sites in order to obtain an and weeded the green belt areas using goats. accurate understanding of local ecosystems, including plants, Initiatives at the JXTG Nippon Oil & Energy In fiscal 2019 and beyond, we will continue our initiatives to birds and other animals, and marine life. Chita Plant conserve biodiversity by stepping up efforts to maintain the For information on our environmental management strucThe JXTG Nippon Oil & Energy Chita Plant is a member of the green belt and appropriately utilizing areas where initiatives have ture, see p. 28. Ecological Network Formation and Leadership Development been completed. Program for Corporate Green Spaces in the Coastal Area of Major Initiatives in Japan Chita Peninsula and the Project Linking Life with One Another. These initiatives, which involve partnerships among local JXTG Nippon Oil & Energy, which has many production sites, governments (Aichi Prefecture, Chita City), NPOs, students and ENEOS no Mori forest conservation activity has established the JXTG Nippon Oil & Energy Group Guidecompanies located in the coastal area, utilize corporate green lines on Biodiversity. In addition, we systematically carry out belts and other areas to provide safe and secure habitats for activities for the preservation of biodiversity by conducting local flora and fauna. ecosystem studies at our major business sites in Japan, many The plant is working to mainstream biodiversity through of which are surrounded by large green belts. At our other measures such as ecosystem surveys（monitoring）of its business sites as well, we carry out environmental conservation biotope, conducted with students in the local community. In activities suited to the surrounding environments. fiscal 2018, ecosystem surveys of the biotope and nature We also carry out activities such as regular environmental observation walks were conducted on one occasion each. training for employees and community contribution activities As a result of these activities, the related to environmental conservation. Chita Plant was granted certification Interactive event（Negishi Refinery） by the Association for Business JXTG Nippon Oil & Energy Group Innovation in Harmony with Nature and Guidelines on Biodiversity Community（ABINC）in 2015 after JX Nakajo Forest afforestation activity undergoing a third-party screening Basic Stance developed by the Japan Business We will carry out initiatives with attention to biodiversity in Initiative for Biodiversity（JBIB） . This ABINC certification mark every aspect of our business activities, under the recognition certification was renewed in 2018. that our business activities are deeply related to the Earth s biodiversity. Action Policy 1. We will ascertain and analyze the impacts of our business activities on biodiversity and strive to make improvements. 2. We will promote activities that contribute to biodiversity preservation, such as nature protection and environmental education. 3. We will disclose and share information on our efforts to preserve biodiversity. Tree planting in Nikko Ryuju Forest in Nanyo City, Yamagata Prefecture Nature observation walk in the greenbelt with local children（Chita Plant） 41 JXTG REPORT ESG DATA BOOK 2019 JXTG REPORT ESG DATA BOOK 2019 42 Comparative Table with Governance Report Environmental Report Social Report Data GRI Standards Environmental Initiatives to Initiatives to Promote the Management of Initiatives to Prevent Management Prevent Global Warming 3Rs Chemical Substances Environmental Pollution Initiatives for Biodiversity Social Report Providing Sustainable Seafood Menu Options at the Employee Cafeteria Major Initiatives Overseas The JXTG Group s mission is to harness the Earth s power for the Since March 2019, JXTG Holdings has been offering sustainable seafood* menu options at the JX Building employee cafeteTree Planting Activities at Caserones common good and for the day-to-day life of each individual. ria, used by the Company and its Group companies. Copper Mine To fulfill this mission, we contribute to resolving the challenges faced by Through this initiative, we are working to raise awareness At the Caserones Copper Mine in Chile, 48,200 seedlings of 15 about biodiversity conservation and environmental conservation native flora species in an area spanning 1.43 square kilometers internal and external stakeholders. among Group employees through food, a part of everyday life. are being planted to protect biodiversity. The areas being For data pertaining to the Social Report, please refer to the Data section. * The seafood has met the MSC s global standard for sustainability or ASC s global planted are those around Ramadilla on the mine site, and the standard for responsibly farmed seafood. off-site areas around Maitencillo and Amolanas. Completion is slated for 2020. In addition to planting, efforts are also being made to monitor the native flora and to research the correlation between the propagation and distribution of unique alpine flora located around the mine and the impacts of climate. Priority Fields for CSR Activities High Ethical Standards Compliance Safety and Environment Human Rights Flora found around the Caserones Copper Mine Human Resource Development Health Measures for Ballast Water（Sea Water） Oil tankers from Japan bound for oil-producing countries carry Quality ballast water（sea water）as weight to maintain stability for Ordering a menu item at the employee cafeteria unloaded voyages. However, this ballast water contains microorganisms and Social Contribution plankton that are carried to the waters of oil-producing countries, where, if released, they can disturb the balance of local ecosystems. Since 2004, the JXTG Nippon Oil & Energy Group has replaced this ballast water while still at sea, and installed water treatment systems* for ballast water on its new vessels in an effort to avoid disturbing the coastal waters of oil-producing countries. * Systems that keep the level of aquatic organisms in ballast water within certain standards prior to release. 43 JXTG REPORT ESG DATA BOOK 2019 JXTG REPORT ESG DATA BOOK 2019 44 Comparative Table with Comparative Table with Governance Report Environmental Report Social Report Data GRI Standards Governance Report Environmental Report Social Report Data GRI Standards Safety Human Resource Healthy Work Supply Chain Safety Human Resource Healthy Work Supply Chain Human Rights Health Quality Social Contribution Human Rights Health Quality Social Contribution Development Environment Management Development Environment Management video message on safety by its president to demonstrate the are likely to lead to serious occupational injuries, and are making company s top-down commitment to safety. At its refineries and further efforts to prevent their occurrence. plants, the company has implemented a behavior based safety Group-wide Safety Efforts Safety (BBS) system that is used to facilitate safe operations by focusing on individual behavior. Separating people and heavy machinery Preventing falls from high places JX Nippon Oil & Gas Exploration has implemented various Preventing workers from falling down safety activities at its business sites both overseas and in Japan Preventing heatstroke (Vietnam, Malaysia, and Nakajo). Among these activities, the STOP1 card and safety activities known as UCUX2 dictate that if As a main initiative for fiscal 2018, we collected and shared an unsafe behavior is found during a work task, the work task information on the Group companies initiatives to address Basic Approach Structure will be suspended temporarily and cannot be restarted until an mutual safety items, including safety education, important rules, improvement proposal is made and the unsafe element is and supervision and monitoring systems. As a corporate group responsible for the stable supply of The JXTG Group Environment & Safety Committee, chaired by remedied. These activities enable anyone who notices an Occupational Injuries (Persons) energy, resources and materials, the JXTG Group believes the officer (director) responsible for the Safety, Health & Environunsafe situation to propose improvements, which encourages FY2016 FY2017 FY2018 that ensuring safe operations is the basis of our business ment Department at JXTG Holdings, has been established frontline workers to become actively involved in safety and JXTG Group Fatalities 0 0 0 Lost work time 16 9 20 survival and social credibility, as well as the source of our under the JXTG Group CSR Council, which is chaired by the improves overall safety awareness. Number of employees Subtotal 16 9 20 occupational competitive edge. president of JXTG Holdings. JX Nippon Mining & Metals is working continuously to injuries Fatalities 1 1 0 Contractors Lost work time 18 26 20 Based on this understanding, safety has been prioritized The Committee evaluates and shares information on improve safety awareness and sensitivity to risks, by such (partner companies, etc.) Subtotal 19 27 20 in the JXTG Group Philosophy, and our basic policy on safety occupational injuries and the implementation of safety activities means as introducing hazard simulation equipment at each Total 35 36 40 and security has been stipulated in the JXTG Group Code at each Group company, and also reviews and implements business site, preparing and implementing safety curriculum Note: Scope of occupational injury statistics: the three core operating companies (JXTG Nippon Oil & Energy, JX Nippon Mining & Metals and JX Nippon Oil & of Conduct. measures to prevent occupational injuries. based on past accidents (videos re-enacting occupational Gas Exploration). In addition, based on the above, each Group company For information on our structure, see the Management accidents), and holding safety lectures led by outside instructors. Occupational Injury Frequency Rate assesses risks pertaining to occupational safety and establishes Structure section on p. 28. 1 A safety training observation program developed by DuPont JXTG Group Industry average (MHLW survey) its own safety policy in accordance with its own business 2 Unsafe Condition / Unsafe Action 2.0 1.83 characteristics, thereby ensuring multiple layers of effective Operation of Safety Management System 1.63 1.66 1.5 safety activities. and Status of Certification Building a Mutual Assistance System for Specifically, we aim to enhance our safety activities and Each Group company has built safety management systems Refineries and Other Sites 1.0 safety training programs, in which the employees of our partner tailored to its respective business characteristics. Our compaFor response in the event that a refinery sustains damage from 0.5 0.40 0.39 0.29 companies also participate, and we have established preventive nies are continuously making efforts to raise safety awareness an earthquake and is unable to regain control unaided, JXTG 0 and emergency measures to cope with all manner of accidents, and prevent occupational injuries, through means such as Nippon Oil & Energy has established a system for emergency 2016 2017 2018 (FY) Notes: Scope: The refineries, plants and business sites of the three core operating problems and natural disasters. implementing regular safety education and training, conducting response operations and measures to enable organized supcompanies. (For details, see p. 82.) investigations into the causes of incidents and formulating and port from within the Group. This system ensures the execution Frequency rate: The number of injuries and fatalities per million cumulative hours worked indicates the frequency of occurrence of occupational implementing measures to prevent recurrence. of a swift and agile response. injuries. JXTG Group Code of Conduct (excerpt) JXTG Nippon Oil & Energy has established and implementDefinition of terms by MHLW (Available in Japanese only): https://www.mhlw.go.jp/toukei/itiran/roudou/saigai/03/2.html ed its own safe operations management system (SOMS), which Results of Major Initiatives for 2. Safety and security conforms to ISO standards, at its refineries and plants. Ensuring Safety ♥ Occupational Injury Severity Rate JXTG Group Industry average (MHLW survey) (1) We regard safety and security as the foundation of our JX Nippon Oil & Gas Exploration has adopted its own HSE1 business activities, set high safety and security standards, 0.10 management system (HSEMS), which conforms to ISO standWith the goal of eliminating all serious occupational injuries,* the 0.09 0.09 always ensure safety and security, and take appropriate 0.08 0.10 ards. Through HSEMS systems management, the company JXTG Group conducts extensive safety activities and safety measures to prevent any incidents and injuries. 0.06 has established an integrated safe operations framework that training programs, in which employees from its partner compa(2) We have established preventive and emergency mea0.04 sures to minimize damage to our business sites caused includes overseas business sites. nies also participate. At JX Nippon Mining & Metals, 12 business sites in Japan In fiscal 2018, there were a total of 40 occupational injuries, 0.02 0.01 0.01 （0.0039） 0.00 by natural disasters, including earthquakes. We also 0 make every effort to protect the lives and safety of our have obtained OHSAS 180012 certification, and operate this four more than the previous fiscal year. However, there were no 2016 2017 2018 (FY) directors, officers and employees, communities, and othmanagement system to promote safety management. The fatal occupational injuries of contractor company workers, for Notes: Scope: The refineries, plants and business sites of the three core operating ers concerned. companies. (For details, see p. 82.) company is now working to switch this certification to internawhich there was one each for two consecutive years in fiscal Severity rate: The aggregated number of workdays lost per thousand (3) We shall not work under the influence of alcohol or drugs, tional standards (ISO) by March 2021. 2016 and fiscal 2017. 20 directly hired employees sustained cumulative hours worked; indicates the severity of occupational injuries. Definition of terms by MHLW (Available in Japanese only): when ill, or under other conditions where safety cannot be occupational injuries, an increase of 11 from the previous fiscal https://www.mhlw.go.jp/toukei/itiran/roudou/saigai/03/2.html ¹ Acronym for health, safety and environment. ensured. ² OHSAS 18001: An occupational health and safety management system year. TRIR and LTIR The occupational injury frequency rate (the number of FY2016 FY2017 FY2018 WEB See the following for further details on the safety policies of Safety Activities occupational fatalities and injuries per million working hours) and TRIR 1.11 0.81 1.25 the Group s core operating companies. At the JXTG Group Safety Education Center (Hitachi City, the occupational injury severity rate (the number of lost working LTIR 0.28 0.20 0.39 https://www.noe.jxtg-group.co.jp/english/company/policy/ Notes: Scope: JXTG Holdings and the head offices, refineries, plants and business http://www.nex.jx-group.co.jp/english/environment/hse/policy.html Ibaraki Prefecture), the JXTG Group works to improve employee days per thousand working hours) were both significantly below sites of the three core operating companies. (For details, see p. 82.) https://www.nmm.jx-group.co.jp/company/guidelines/safety.html sensitivity to risks (see p. 47 for further details). Group compathe average for all industries (Ministry of Health, Labour and TRIR (total recordable incident rate): number of non-lost-time occupational (Available in Japanese only) injuries, lost-time occupational injuries and fatalities per one million hours nies are also working individually to raise safety awareness and Welfare survey). LTIR (lost time injury rate): number of lost-time occupational injuries and fatalities per one million hours enhance safety management. In fiscal 2017, we adopted Group-wide safety efforts for Every year in July, JXTG Nippon Oil & Energy releases a occupational injuries that occur with greater frequency or which ♥： Indicates the Group s top CSR priorities. Please see pp. 5–6. * Fatal occupational injuries 45 JXTG REPORT ESG DATA BOOK 2019 JXTG REPORT ESG DATA BOOK 2019 46 Comparative Table with Comparative Table with Governance Report Environmental Report Social Report Data GRI Standards Governance Report Environmental Report Social Report Data GRI Standards Safety Human Resource Healthy Work Supply Chain Safety Human Resource Healthy Work Supply Chain Human Rights Health Quality Social Contribution Human Rights Health Quality Social Contribution Development Environment Management Development Environment Management Safety Training Program Using Virtual Reality Preventing Collisions Between Acquisition of Super Certification for Measures for Seismic Reinforcement of In 2013, the JXTG Group established the JXTG Group Safety Heavy Machinery and People High Pressure Gas Facilities Education Center in Hitachi City, Ibaraki Prefecture. Established We are moving forward with legally required seismic reinforceto enable workers to experience the risks inherent in their work, The JX Nippon Mining & Metals Group considers the prevention JXTG Nippon Oil & Energy s Kawasaki Refinery and Sakai ment work for tanks that store hazardous materials. the aim of the facility is to raise the safety awareness of individuof collisions between heavy machinery and people as a key Refinery were the first and second businesses to be certified Upgrade work on floating-roof tanks subject to this requireal employees through simulation training. safety issue. This is because there is a high risk of collisions on under the new certification regime for the High Pressure Gas ment was completed before the statutory deadline. As for In fiscal 2018, 1,538 employees participated in training at the the manufacturing floor, where heavy machinery, such as Safety Act in fiscal 2017. Mizushima Refinery A and B also internal floating-roof tanks, which became subject to legislation facility, bringing the total number since the center opened to forklifts, is used, increasing the potential for serious accidents. obtained certification in August 2019. in fiscal 2011, plans are in place to complete seismic reinforce10,005. The company has implemented a number of countermeasures This certification, established by Japan s Ministry of Economent work by the statutory deadline (end of fiscal 2023). In addition, a new Group training program that utilizes virtual at workplaces to prevent collisions, including demarcation of my, Trade and Industry, is awarded to refineries that satisfy As for high-pressure gas facilities, we have carried out reality (VR) technology was launched in September 2017. Since separate routes for heavy machinery and people. certain criteria for such areas as advanced safety activities and seismic performance evaluations based on administrative then, the program has been expanded to include a larger number Since 2017, the introduction of measures that go a step operational support systems. As a certified business, we will directives, and we have completed the retrofitting of spherical of VR experiences. This program enables workers to feel what it is beyond conventional approaches, making the use of the latest continue to implement high-quality safety activities with the goal tanks with braces to increase earthquake resistance, taking into like to be personally involved in an accident and think about preventive safety technologies, has been under consideration. of improving our safety practices even further. account the effects of the Great East Japan Earthquake. We victims psychological state, as well as accident causes and From fiscal 2017 to fiscal 2018, a system for automatically continue to carry out earthquake resistance measures on critical preventive measures. Using VR technology, participants can braking heavy machinery was tested at the Saganoseki Smelter facilities, with completion of work planned for the end of fiscal experience accidents that cannot be safely replicated in the real & Refinery of JX Mining & Metals Group company Pan Pacific 2021. world, such as steam explosions, being struck by heavy machinCopper, while a system that issues warnings and commands to ery, entanglement in high-speed rotors, and falling from high both operators and workers was tested at JX Nippon Coil places, from a victim s perspective, thereby increasing the effecCenter. Based on the test results, these solutions were introtiveness of the training. Since its introduction, VR experiences with duced at both business sites and put into operation in 2018. dispersal of liquid chemicals, getting fingers caught in slings, grinder recoil, and falling down stairs have been added to the program, further enhancing the training. Our production sites are also equipped with hazard simulation Initiatives at Refineries and Plants equipment, and workers are required to undergo training using for Major Earthquakes this equipment before they can begin actual work. Through these and other efforts, we are working to ensure safety across the The JXTG Group implements various earthquake measures at entire Group. its refineries and plants. Brace retrofitting on a spherical tank Measures to Mitigate Damage from Measures to Protect Lives Disasters As a precaution against earthquakes and tsunamis, we have We have installed seismographs at all of our refineries and Test in progress at the Saganoseki Smelter & Refinery voluntarily implemented seismic reinforcement of our offices and plants as part of a system that automatically shuts down production unit control rooms, with priority given to the protecequipment in a prompt and safe manner in the event of an tion of human life. earthquake, depending on the intensity. We have also designated locations and methods for evacuation in case of an earthquake or tsunami, and we carry out disaster preparedness training every year. JXTG Group Safety Education Center Elevated warehouse (Sakai Refinery) Virtual-reality training equipment 47 JXTG REPORT ESG DATA BOOK 2019 JXTG REPORT ESG DATA BOOK 2019 48 Comparative Table with Comparative Table with Governance Report Environmental Report Social Report Data GRI Standards Governance Report Environmental Report Social Report Data GRI Standards Safety Human Resource Healthy Work Supply Chain Human Rights Human Resource Healthy Work Supply Chain Human Rights Health Quality Social Contribution Safety Health Quality Social Contribution Development Environment Management Development Environment Management Major Initiatives to Prepare for Disaster Drills Accidents and Problems We regularly implement comprehensive disaster drills for our own disaster response organizations to ensure that we can Disaster Prevention Facilities At our refineries, plants and stockpiling terminals, we have taken respond in a quick and agile manner should an actual disaster occur. We also hold other drills, including joint disaster preparHuman Rights measures such as the installation of disaster prevention equipedness drills involving local fire departments and disaster ment and facilities in preparation for potential accidents and response organizations from nearby companies. disasters. Oil Spill Countermeasures Basic Approach Human Rights Policy We are able to respond quickly to oil leaks on land or at sea. We have multiple oil dikes surrounding our storage tanks and As a corporate group with global business operations, the JXTG The JXTG Group has established basic principles on respect for systems to prevent leaks from spreading offsite. We also have Group believes that an important element in striving for sustainhuman rights under 5. Respect for human rights within the oil fences and oil recovery vessels in place to respond to oil able development is respect for the human rights of all stakeGroup Code of Conduct. We have requested cooperation with leaks at sea. holders, including employees. these efforts not only from Group companies but also other The JXTG Group supports international norms such as the companies across our value chain. In addition, we established a United Nations Guiding Principles on Business and Human human rights policy to further clarify our stance and the imporRights and the fundamental labor rights of the International tance of respect for human rights. We will continue our efforts to Labour Organization (ILO) Declaration on Fundamental Princicommunicate the applicable scope of the Group Code of ples and Rights at Work (freedom of association and the Conduct to all concerned and ensure compliance with it. Water discharge drill using a high-capacity sprayer effective recognition of the right to collective bargaining, the elimination of all forms of forced or compulsory labor, the effective abolition of child labor, the elimination of discrimination JXTG Group Human Rights Policy in respect of employment and occupation). The JXTG Group conducts its business activities under the We conduct our business activities with respect for the JXTG Group Philosophy, which states that we will contribute to human rights not only of our employees, but of all stakeholders, the development of our communities and help to ensure a viincluding our suppliers, customers, business partners and brant future through creation and innovation in energy, resourcmembers of local communities. es, and materials. Deploying an oil fence as part of a drill to help prevent marine pollution This policy was formulated as a guideline for promoting respect for human rights across the entire Group and fulfilling related obligations pursuant to the United Nations Guiding PrinciFire Countermeasures JXTG Group Code of Conduct (excerpt) ples on Business and Human Rights. In addition to large ladder trucks with hazardous material Firefighting during a large-scale comprehensive disaster drill 5. Respect for human rights 1. Basic Approach response capabilities, compressed air foam system (CAFS) tankers and high-capacity water cannons, numerous foam (1) We shall not infringe on human rights through our busiThe JXTG Group fully recognizes that human rights must be ness activities. We respect internationally-accepted huextinguishing systems, sprinkler systems and large extinguishrespected in all of the countries and regions where it conducts man rights standards and diversity, acknowledging differers have been placed onsite for response in the unlikely event of its business activities. ences pertaining to gender, age, nationality, race, a major fire. ethnicity, skin color, culture, thought, religion, belief, polit2. Compliance with Applicable Laws and RegulaOur facilities also have disaster response vessels with ical opinions, sexual orientation (LGBT), and the presence tions firefighting capabilities to respond to accidents or disasters at or absence of disability. sea. (2) We shall not engage in any type of discrimination or haThe JXTG Group complies with the laws, ordinances and rassment. regulations applicable in the countries and regions where it con(3) We shall not engage in any forms of forced labor or child ducts its business activities. In addition, the JXTG Group will labor. pursue a method for respecting international principles on hu(4) We shall not engage in business transactions which may man rights in case of a contradiction between internationally lead to the prolongation of conflicts, human rights violarecognized human rights and the laws and regulations of each tions, or inhumane acts. country and region. 3. Respect for International Norms on Human Rights The JXTG Group supports and respects the International Bill of Human Rights (consisting of the Universal Declaration of Human Rights, International Covenant on Civil and Political Rights, Firefighting vehicles and the International Covenant on Economic, Social and Cul49 JXTG REPORT ESG DATA BOOK 2019 JXTG REPORT ESG DATA BOOK 2019 50 Comparative Table with Comparative Table with Governance Report Environmental Report Social Report Data GRI Standards Governance Report Environmental Report Social Report Data GRI Standards Human Rights Human Resource Healthy Work Supply Chain Human Rights Human Resource Healthy Work Supply Chain Safety Health Quality Social Contribution Safety Health Quality Social Contribution Development Environment Management Development Environment Management The committee is responsible for deliberation on Group-wide Mine Development and Respecting the tural Rights), which stipulates the fundamental human rights of sions with relevant stakeholders to ensure that it comprepolicies and approaches to human rights. It confirms and Human Rights of Local Residents all people, along with international norms on human rights such hends and addresses the impacts it has on human rights evaluates the activities of each Group company and shares The development and operation of mines can have a particularly as the ILO Declaration on the Fundamental Principles and from the perspective of those affected. information. significant impact on the surrounding environment. It is therefore Rights at Work of the International Labor Organization, which Specifically, each Group company implements various essential to give due consideration to the human rights of local 5. Training sets forth fundamental labor rights, other conventions relating measures to ensure respect for human rights, which is stipulatresidents and implement measures to ensure coexistence and The JXTG Group will provide appropriate training to its offito the human rights of workers on wages and working hours, ed in the Group Code of Conduct. These measures include the mutual prosperity with local communities. cers and employees to ensure that this policy is incorporated the Declaration on the Rights of Indigenous Peoples, and the into the business activities of all companies belonging to the implementation of human rights awareness training and human The JX Nippon Mining & Metals Group s Minera Lumina Children s Rights and Business Principles. As a participant in JXTG Group. rights due diligence in accordance with the business characterCopper Chile, the operator of the Caserones Copper Mine, the UN Global Compact, we support and respect the 10 princiistics of each company. applies a basic three-point policy for supporting local communiples of the UN Global Compact. 6． Information Disclosure Group company initiatives are also shared at Human Rights ties: respect for life, protection of the community and environThe progress and results of initiatives for respect for human Promotion and Human Resource Development meetings, held ment, and compliance with laws and regulations. In keeping 4. Fulfillment of Responsibility to Respect Human rights under this policy will be disclosed on our website and once each quarter, and are used to improve the level of busiwith this policy, after the project launch in 2007, the operator Rights in reports, among other media. ness activities across the entire Group. began holding briefings and engaging in dialogue with the The JXTG Group is committed to upholding human rights. If Collas, the indigenous people who live in the area around the 7. Applicable Scope it is determined that our business activities cause or have mine site, in an effort to build up trust. This policy applies to all officers and employees of the JXTG caused adverse impacts on human rights, we will take approGroup. All business partners involved in the JXTG Group s Major Initiatives priate action to remedy such impacts in accordance with our business activities will be asked to cooperate with this policy. responsibility to respect human rights. As part of our efforts, the JXTG Group will promote the following initiatives. 8. Positioning Participation in the UN Global Compact This policy supplements the provisions of the JXTG Group JXTG Holdings, JXTG Nippon Oil & Energy, JX Nippon Oil & Philosophy and the JXTG Group Code of Conduct. Gas Exploration and JX Nippon Mining & Metals support the ● Human Rights Due Diligence The JXTG Group will establish and continually implement a UN Global Compact and work to realize its 10 principles in four mechanism for human rights due diligence. Human rights areas, including human rights. due diligence refers to the continuous process of conducting preventive surveys and investigations, rectifying issues Corporate Human Rights Benchmark (CHRB) using appropriate means, and disclosing the progress and Structure The JXTG Group became subject to Corporate Human Rights results of such externally, in order to prevent or mitigate Benchmark (CHRB) assessment in fiscal 2019. possible adverse impacts on human rights caused by the Briefing The JXTG Group Human Rights Promotion and Human RePlease refer to the CHRB website for the assessment company. source Development Committee, chaired by the officer (director) results. ● Dialogue and Discussions responsible for the Human Resources Department of JXTG Going forward, in order to sufficiently address the questions Response to the UK Modern Slavery Act The JXTG Group conducts in earnest dialogue and discusHoldings, has been established under the JXTG Group CSR posed by the CHRB, we will carry out initiatives on business 2015 Council, which is chaired by the president of JXTG Holdings. and human rights and proactively disclose relevant information. JX Nippon Oil & Energy Europe Limited (JXTG Nippon Oil & In addition, on July 30, 2019, we met with CHRB and Energy Group) and JX Nippon Exploration and Production (U.K.) shared opinions on business and human rights. Limited (JX Nippon Oil & Gas Exploration Group) have released statements in response to the United Kingdom Modern Slavery Act 2015, which came into effect in October 2015. Structure for Promoting Human Rights, Human Resource Development and Health See the following websites for further details. WEB http://www.eneos.eu/wp-content/uploads/2018/07/Anti-SlavJXTG Holdings ery-Statement_FY2017.pdf http://www.nex.jx-group.co.jp/environment/compliance/active/pdf/ Monitoring/Supervision Body Responsible human_01.pdf Board of Directors Reporting JXTG Group CSR Council Collaboration for Risk Management Monitoring/Supervision (Chaired by the president of JXTG Holdings) Executive Council Internal Control Council Response to the South African Black Reporting Raising Awareness of Human Rights through Economic Empowerment Policy (BEE Policy) Human Rights Promotion and Training and e-Learning ♥ JXTG Nippon Oil & Energy operates a representative office in Human Resource Development Committee Group companies conduct human rights training, new employJohannesburg, South Africa, for the purpose of gathering (Chaired Human Resources Department of JXTG Holdings ) by the officer (director) responsible for the ee training, rank-based training, and e-learning for all officers information. The office does not engage in sales and marketing Meets twice a year, in principle and employees in an effort to raise awareness of human rights activities. Therefore, this representative office has not obtained Human Rights Promotion and Human Resource Development Meeting and prevent human rights issues from occurring. approval under this policy because the nature of its activities Held once each quarter, in principle The participation rate in human rights training in fiscal 2018 does not require it. was 94.2%. In fiscal 2019, in an effort to achieve a 100% participation rate in human rights training, we will encourage officer and employee participation by providing access to JXTG Holdings Group JXTG Nippon Oil & Energy Group JX Nippon Oil & Gas Exploration Group JX Nippon Mining & Metals Group training materials through various means, such as the company intranet and email. ♥： Indicates the Group s top CSR priorities. Please see pp. 5–6. 51 JXTG REPORT ESG DATA BOOK 2019 JXTG REPORT ESG DATA BOOK 2019 52 Comparative Table with Comparative Table with Governance Report Environmental Report Social Report Data GRI Standards Governance Report Environmental Report Social Report Data GRI Standards Human Rights Human Resource Healthy Work Supply Chain Human Rights Human Resource Healthy Work Supply Chain Safety Health Quality Social Contribution Safety Health Quality Social Contribution Development Environment Management Development Environment Management Human Rights Due Diligence The JXTG Group s business operations involve a wide ● Supply Chain Persons who contact these contact points for reporting or The JXTG Group has checked for human rights violations range of stakeholders, and the Group recognizes the imporWith the cooperation of its suppliers, the JXTG Group introconsultation are not in any way subject to unfavorable treat(harassment, etc.) at each workplace through employee awaretance of respecting the human rights of all stakeholders. In the duced CSR procurement in fiscal 2018. In CSR procurement, ment. Furthermore, these persons are free to seek remediation ness surveys and legal compliance inspections. In fiscal 2018, human rights due diligence we carried out in fiscal 2019, we we ask our suppliers to respond to verification surveys for through external parties for any incidents they have reported to we began implementing human rights due diligence based on verified whether any human rights violations involving employhuman rights due diligence in order to ascertain the status of these contact points. our human rights policy. ees or customers, as well as local residents living near refineries suppliers human rights efforts. The Group identified human rights issues for human rights and plants, local residents living near service stations, or suppliThe JXTG Group will continue its efforts to ensure that no ● Views from Employees due diligence, referencing the Guiding Principles on Business ers, were committed by the Group. human rights violations occur within its supply chain. For details, We collect the opinions of employees through JXTG Group and Human Rights (United Nations) and Guidance on Human We verified the following rights concerning our stakeholders. see pp. 68–69. employee awareness surveys, which target all officers and Rights Due Diligence (Japan Federation of Bar Associations). At the time of publication of this report, no serious human In addition, the JX Nippon Mining & Metals Group is taking employees (including temporary workers), as well as various (See table below.) rights violations had been identified. measures against conflict minerals. For details, see p. 70. other surveys and initiatives, for use in in-house initiatives. Furthermore, for women s empowerment, we held a panel List of Human Rights Issues ・The ILO s fundamental labor rights (freedom of association ● Consultation Contact Points (Remedy Measures) discussion and an exchange of ideas between officers and Stakeholders Human rights issues and the effective recognition of the right to collective The JXTG Group has established a compliance hotline and a employees on the themes of career advancement and balancbargaining, elimination of all forms of forced or compulsory harassment contact point as internal contact points for consuling childcare and work. Harassment labor, effective abolition of child labor and elimination of tation and reporting of issues including human rights violations. Management of working hours discrimination in respect of employment and occupation) These contact points accept anonymous reports of and provide ・Three labor rights (right to organize, right to collective consultation on issues ranging from human rights issues that Employees Discrimination bargaining, freedom of association) may occur in the course of day-to-day operations to serious Health ・Freedom from forced or compulsory labor human rights violations. Safety ・Freedom from all forms of harassment ・Right to work in a safe and healthy work environment Suppliers Human rights violations by suppliers ・Freedom from discrimination Quality defects (including contamination) ・Rights of foreign workers ・Rights of immigrants Inadequate provision of product information Customers/ ・Rights of persons with disabilities Business partners Improper management of chemical substances used in ・Rights of women products ・Rights of sexual minorities Third Party Opinion Information security (privacy management) ・Right to access to remedies Environment (including environmental degradation, ・Social security The JXTG Group is working to ensure respect for human A portion of the third party opinion is summarized as Local communities health impacts, and damage in local areas) ・Prohibition of child labor rights through the PDCA cycle based on the Group Philosofollows. ・Access rights to resources phy and the Code of Conduct. For our human rights risk Items requiring prompt response in accordance with in・Rights concerning health assessment, implemented as part of our efforts to ensure ternational standards (Guiding Principles on Business and respect for human rights, we asked Human Rights Now to Human Rights, the ILO Declaration, etc.) conduct desk research in the interest of ensuring verification from a third-party perspective. ・Right to access to remedies Within the JXTG Group CSR promotion structure, we Thorough dissemination of the use of internal whistleblowwill carefully review the feedback received and make imer system (hotline) provements to our business and human rights initiatives as necessary. Our progress will be disclosed in future ESG Data ・Discrimination and harassment Books. Advanced efforts for discrimination and harassment prevention training Human Rights Due Diligence Cycle ・Occupational health and safety Improvement on initiatives aimed at eliminating all occupational injuries, not only serious occupational injuries (fatalities) Check for ・Supply chain management Identify human rights Deliberate Implement Identify stakeholders Disclosure Effective implementation of the JXTG Group Code of Conhuman rights issues violations countermeasures countermeasures (each department) duct in Japan and overseas Response to human rights risks across the entire value Human rights due diligence briefing session presented by Human chain, including overseas Rights Now 53 JXTG REPORT ESG DATA BOOK 2019 JXTG REPORT ESG DATA BOOK 2019 54 Comparative Table with Comparative Table with Governance Report Environmental Report Social Report Data GRI Standards Governance Report Environmental Report Social Report Data GRI Standards Human Resource Healthy Work Supply Chain Human Resource Healthy Work Supply Chain Safety Human Rights Development Health Quality Social Contribution Safety Human Rights Development Health Quality Social Contribution Environment Management Environment Management Major Initiatives ♥ Human Resource JXTG Group Development Development of future leaders Candidates for future Group management positions are cultivated through classification-leveled training of selected personnel. Promotion of measures linked to workstyle reforms Basic Approach Structure Proactive efforts are made with a variety of measures targeting workstyle reforms to create an environment for effectively nurturing diverse human resources. Training for future Group management positions The JXTG Group believes that an important challenge in the The Human Rights Promotion and Human Resource Developachievement of our growth strategy in a rapidly changing ment Committee, chaired by the officer (director) responsible for JXTG Nippon Oil & Energy JX Nippon Oil & Gas Exploration JX Nippon Mining & Metals business environment is the development of creative, innovative the Human Resources Department of JXTG Holdings, has been human resources who can take on challenges on a global established under the JXTG Group CSR Council, which is Training by rank Training by rank Training by rank scale. Therefore, in addition to incorporating this belief into our chaired by the president of JXTG Holdings. Classification-leveled training and Classification-leveled training and Classification-leveled training and Code of Conduct, we have established consistent systems for The committee coordinates Group policy on human retraining to develop core resources are training to develop core resources are training to develop core resources are each phase of human resource development, including hiring, source development, manages human resource requirements, provided. provided. provided. assignment, assessment, promotion, and training. and carries out discussion to foster a shared awareness of Overseas training for young Dispatch of young employees Overseas language training human resource development among Group companies. employees overseas All management-track employees in their As for specific measures concerning the development of College graduates in their third to fifth Young employees with several years of second year at the company as well as JXTG Group Code of Conduct (excerpt) human resources, each Group company conducts a developyear of employment with the company experience at the company are disother employees in need of language ment program tailored to its own business characteristics and are sent overseas for about one month patched for three to six months to training are sent abroad to study foreign 12. Establishment of a healthy work environment for training, which includes English overseas offices and sites, where they languages for one to three months. suited to the aptitude of individual employees. The challenges (1) We strive to enable all personnel to carry out their busilessons and fieldwork in accordance focus on core learning themes to learn and objectives of each Group company are addressed by the Career development interviews for ness operations in the workplace with vigor, and to enable with their language skill levels. about the E&P business in the field while committee, and the PDCA cycle is implemented for the Group contributing to local operations. young employees ourselves, our families and our colleagues to lead healthy as a whole for effective human resource development. Local staff training Recognizing that human resources are and cultured lives by promoting health care and work-life Career development interviews For more about the structure, see p. 51. Face to face training is implemented for the source of our organization s balance. local staff in Japan. Employees are interviewed at key points strength, regular human resources and (2) We promote diversity in order to enable diverse individuals in their careers to enhance the effectivedivision interviews with young employto maximize their abilities. Promotion of career opportunities ness of career development over the ees are conducted as an effort to ensure (3) We strive to secure and maintain a pleasant work environfor female employees medium to long term, based the systematic development of these ment through interactive dialogue and ongoing communiSeminars are held to follow up with on employees own wishes and the employees and enhance their proposcation. employees who have returned to work needs of the company. Based on the al-making capabilities. (4) We strive to train our people, and seek to enhance the from childcare leave, to raise awareness results, the company offers support for among supervisors, and to support the every individual to take on new challengEnergizing individuals and abilities of ourselves and others. organizations career development of female employees. es in order to achieve their future vision (5) We shall obtain the necessary confirmation and approval for themselves. Efforts are made to strengthen human from the appropriate person(s) with authority before we Self-assessment interviews resource management and developcommence any religious activity, political activity, or any Regular interviews are conducted in Employee training programs ment, as well as establish an environsimilar activities during work. which we listen to employees ambitions A total of 12 programs are offered ment in which diverse human resources for long-term career design and skill throughout the year for young employcan work with enthusiasm. development. This gives the company ees to educate them about E&P busiand supervisors a better understanding ness technologies, contracts, and of employees wishes, helping to ensure economic calculations. Training is led by optimal assignment, relocation, and in-house instructors using curricula development of employees. developed by the company. Training Programs Implemented in Fiscal 2018 (Hours) Total training hours Training hours per employee JXTG Holdings 2,017 18.34 JXTG Nippon Oil & Energy 81,183 9.23 JX Nippon Oil & Gas Exploration 8,338 22.47 Note: Number of hours of internal group training and external training organized by the human resources deJX Nippon Mining & Metals 29,424 15.71 partments of JXTG Holdings and the Group s core Total 120,962 10.85 operating companies, aggregated for each employer. ♥：Indicates the Group s top CSR priorities. Please see pp. 5–6. 55 JXTG REPORT ESG DATA BOOK 2019 JXTG REPORT ESG DATA BOOK 2019 56 Comparative Table with Comparative Table with Governance Report Environmental Report Social Report Data GRI Standards Governance Report Environmental Report Social Report Data GRI Standards Human Resource Healthy Work Supply Chain Human Resource Healthy Work Supply Chain Safety Human Rights Development Health Quality Social Contribution Safety Human Rights Development Health Quality Social Contribution Environment Management Environment Management Initiatives to Develop Management Global Business Skills Training Designed for Support for Employee Self-Development Implementation of Various Measures the Systematic Development of Global Resources The JXTG Group has a self-development support system to Human Resources provide employees with a desire to learn. With an eye on the future direction of its companies, the JXTG Dialogue Session Between Employees and JXTG Nippon Oil & Energy offers Global business skills trainGroup must work to more systematically and strategically Management ing as part of its basic training programs. For this training, Voluntary Participation in Training develop management resources as the future leaders of the JXTG Holdings hosted a dialogue session for around 400 employees who are college graduates in their third to fifth year JXTG Holdings offers various seminars and correspondence Group in order to respond to the rapid changes expected to employees and seven directors. with the company are sent for about a month to a Southeast courses for employees of its core operating companies and take place in the management environment going forward. The objective of this session was to share the company s Asian country, where they participate in activities such as other Group companies. Employees can select seminars and As the development of these management resources is a direction through dialogue between employees and manageconducting market research or attending one-on-one language courses based on their individual needs in order to support their challenge facing JXTG Holdings as well as its core operating ment to ensure that we can all think independently and work classes, depending on their language skills. In view of the self-development. companies, we will work together to identify employees qualiwith vigor while moving toward the same objectives. anticipated overseas expansion of our business operations in fied for management positions and provide comprehensive During the first part of the session, the president and the future, the objective of the training is not only the developSelf-Innovation Support training to fully draw out their skills as future senior executives. executive vice president gave presentations with the theme ment of participants language skills, but also the enhancement In response to employees desire for professional growth, JX moving toward the future of the JXTG Group. In the second of their ability to adapt to foreign cultures. Nippon Mining & Metals has implemented a self-innovation part, participants were split up into several rooms, where In addition, all employees who are college graduates are support system, which builds upon he company s previous Specific Approaches to the Development of employees and management sat in a circle to discuss questions required to take the TOEIC test every three years, and they are self-development system. Management Resources and share views. encouraged to continue their English studies even after the Under this system, employees can apply for and participate Identify management resources using impartial and objecParticipant feedback included the following: I gained a completion of Global business skills training . in external training and study programs of their choice, and at tive measures, taking into account the ideal attributes for better understanding of management s efforts and approaches the time of completion the company reimburses half the cost, to senior management positions. after hearing their responses to various opinions, questions and a maximum of 500,000 yen. Under the original system, particiManagement resources are provided with growth opporthoughts and Hearing the thoughts of people from different pants had to choose from among programs selected in adtunities by combining on-the-job training (interdepartmental transfers, challenging assignments, etc.) and off-thedepartments and age groups was refreshing and inspiring. vance by the company, but under the new system, employees job training (rank-based training in house, enrollment in have access to a much broader range of programs. The objecbusiness schools inside or outside of Japan, etc.) to entive of this system is to encourage employees to make the most able them to acquire the necessary experience, knowlof the private time gained from work-life balance initiatives. As edge and perspective required of future senior managesuch, it offers a much greater level of flexibility than the previous ment. In addition, individual development plans are self-development system. formulated for each of these processes. The Human Resource Development Committee examines the suitability of management resources in a multifaceted Self Innovation Support Program Application Procedures manner and implements the PDCA cycle for the development plan. Employees search for self-development programs Dialogue session between employees and management Application to company in advance Approval Market research in progress Program participation completion Development of Locally Hired Overseas Employees JXTG Nippon Oil & Energy aims to boost the overseas expanApplication to company for reimbursement sion of its business operations by training locally hired overseas employees to become senior managers at its overseas sites. Approval To this end, the company conducts group training of managers and team leaders hired locally overseas. In fiscal Company reimburses half the cost (maximum 500,000 yen per program) 2018, training was held for team leaders in which participants learned about leadership attributes, including communication skills and problem solving ability. In addition, the company has implemented an initiative in which highly competent locally hired overseas employees are assigned to the JXTG Nippon Oil & Energy head office in Japan for several years to experience head office operations firsthand. 57 JXTG REPORT ESG DATA BOOK 2019 JXTG REPORT ESG DATA BOOK 2019 58 Comparative Table with Comparative Table with Governance Report Environmental Report Social Report Data GRI Standards Governance Report Environmental Report Social Report Data GRI Standards Human Resource Health Healthy Work Supply Chain Human Resource Health Healthy Work Supply Chain Safety Human Rights Quality Social Contribution Safety Human Rights Quality Social Contribution Development Environment Management Development Environment Management As a measure against malaria, JX Nippon Oil & Gas Exploration has formulated standards for travel to malaria-prone regions. The standards state that the company will bear the Health cost of anti-malaria medication for employees traveling overseas under certain conditions, and take appropriate measures if an employee is infected. External Evaluation of Our Health Management In February 2019, JXTG Holdings was selected as a brand of Basic Approach Major Initiatives the 2019 Health & Productivity Stock Selection, a program jointly organized by the Ministry of Economy, Trade and Industry The JXTG Group believes that focusing on the health of our and the Tokyo Stock Exchange. In addition, JXTG Holdings and Employee testing for exposure using individual samplers employees and their families results in a vibrant, productive Employee Health Management♥ its core operating companies received recognition as a Certified workforce, bringing vitality to our organization. This in turn is the In addition to providing regular health screenings and annual Health and Productivity Management Organization (White 500), driving force for the achievement of our growth strategies and medical examinations, both in Japan and overseas, the JXTG which they also received last year. Measures Against Exposure to Noise the source of our competitiveness. Group1 offers cancer screenings2 and works to prevent infecJXTG Holdings health management initiatives are introJXTG Nippon Oil & Energy is taking measures against exposure Accordingly, we have included health as a standard in the tious diseases3. For employees on overseas assignments, we duced in external seminars and informational magazines in to occupational noise in its refineries, plants and other business JXTG Group Code of Conduct and are implementing health-reoffer vaccinations as required and medical support. In fiscal order to promote the growth of health and productivity managesites to prevent noise-induced hearing loss. lated initiatives. 2019, we launched proactive initiatives to thoroughly eliminate ment. Comprehensive noise measurements are carried out in the risk of passive smoking in accordance with Japan s Health areas of refineries and plants with potentially high noise levels, Promotion Act. such as those where production equipment is located, to JXTG Group Code of Conduct (excerpt) In fiscal 2018, 100% of employees underwent regular health identify areas with noise levels of 85 decibels or higher, the screenings, while the cancer screening rate was 65%. We will reference value for preventing noise-induced hearing loss. 4. Health enhancement continue our efforts to promote cancer screening in order to Based on these measurements, we have developed workplace (1) Health is the core element of our business continuity and further improve the screening rate. maps for visual identification of areas that exceed the standard development. We take active measures to maintain and For employees diagnosed with medical issues, we ensure noise level. We have also established rules for all refineries enhance the mental and physical health of individuals emfollow-up care through efforts such as encouraging these whereby workers are required to refer to these maps and wear ployed by our group companies. employees to undergo further testing as needed. appropriate ear protection, such as ear plugs or ear muffs, (2) We endeavor to identify and evaluate health disorders related to our business activities and promote measures to 1 when working in areas with high noise levels. Data from JXTG Holdings and core operating companies reduce such risks. We also collect and provide informa2 Subsidies and fees for physical exams as part of regular health screening tion to external sources in order to ensure the sustainable 3 Influenza vaccination (subsidized through company health insurance), work development of occupational health. exemption for measles vaccination, etc. Mental Health Measures To help prevent mental health issues, the JXTG Group makes Structure effective use of a stress check system. This system improves employee awareness of stress. For The Human Rights Promotion and Human Resource Developindividual follow-up for those facing high levels of stress, we ment Committee, chaired by the officer (director) responsible for offer sessions with occupational physicians. Additional measthe Human Resources Department of JXTG Holdings, has been ures include systems for counseling with external counselors. established under the JXTG Group CSR Council, which is We also conduct organization analysis and provide advice Industrial Hygiene chaired by the president of JXTG Holdings. and assistance towards improvements in high-stress work The committee shares information about initiatives by Group environments. The JXTG Group carries out industrial hygiene activities to Noise measurement companies and determines focus items regarding health. prevent health hazards to workers at refineries, plants and other In addition, departments in charge of human resources at Health Measures for Employees Traveling business sites. In particular, we are implementing measures Group companies take on the role of promoting health enand Working Overseas against exposure to chemical substances and noise. hancement measures. At our sites in Japan, meetings of health To prevent illness in employees traveling and working overseas, and safety committees or health committees are convened the JXTG Group actively implements measures such as vacciMeasures Against Exposure to Chemical each month for discussions on health between the companies nations for employees traveling to certain destinations as Substances and labor unions or employee representatives. recommended on the website of Japan s Ministry of Health, JXTG Nippon Oil & Energy conducts voluntary risk assessments For details about our structure, see p. 51. Labour, and Welfare s Quarantine Information Office. using individual samplers to test for exposure to specific chemiJXTG Nippon Oil & Energy stockpiles supplies for its overcal substances that pose health risks in the work environments seas sites as a safety measure against the spread of new types of refineries and other facilities. Based on the results of these of influenza. assessments, we implement appropriate countermeasures to mitigate such risks. ♥： Indicates the Group s top CSR priorities. Please see pp. 5–6. 59 JXTG REPORT ESG DATA BOOK 2019 JXTG REPORT ESG DATA BOOK 2019 60 Comparative Table with Comparative Table with Governance Report Environmental Report Social Report Data GRI Standards Governance Report Environmental Report Social Report Data GRI Standards Human Resource Healthy Work Supply Chain Human Resource Healthy Work Supply Chain Safety Human Rights Health Environment Quality Social Contribution Safety Human Rights Health Environment Quality Social Contribution Development Management Development Management Employment Status of Female Employees The Ikuboss Corporate Alliance is a network of companies (As of March 31, 2019) that recognize the importance of ideal bosses, or ikubosses, * Newly hired female Percentage of women among new hires: in an age of workforce diversity, which includes increased Healthy Work 78 employees 13.4% participation of women in the workplace and an increasing Total number of Percentage of women in the workforce: Environment female employees Number of female 1,221 10.9% Percentage of women in management: number of men who are actively involved in child-rearing. These companies are actively working to change management mind76 managers 2.7% sets as part of their efforts to foster ikubosses in this new age. Number of female 3 Percentage of female directors: 17.6% In fiscal 2018, we held ikuboss lectures on three occadirectors* Average years of service for male sions for employees at the group manager position or higher. All Average years of employees: 19.2 years of the 200 participants, including the president, declared their service for all 17.5 years Difference in average years of service Basic Approach ty and inclusion. It confirms and evaluates the activities of each female employees between male and female employees: commitment to being ikubosses. 1.7 years Group company and shares information. * An ikuboss is a boss (executive or manager) who thinks about the work-life Note: Data on number of female directors is from JXTG Holdings; other data is from The JXTG Group aims to increase the motivation and creativity Specifically, we are implementing measures such as workJXTG Holdings and core operating companies. balance of staff under his or her supervision. Ikubosses support the careers and lives of their staff, while delivering results to the organization and enjoying their of each and every employee and enable them to maximize their style reforms, workplace and career advancement initiatives for * Data on number of female directors only is as of June 26, 2019. own work and private lives. abilities through the promotion of work-life management. female employees and employees with disabilities, and the Moreover, the Group believes in actively incorporating expansion of systems promoting work-life balance. We are also New Systems Introduced in Fiscal 2019 JXTG Nippon Oil & Energy Ikuboss Declaration diversity and inclusion, acknowledging differences pertaining to raising awareness about diversity and inclusion through inJob Transfer Deferment System In view of the ikuboss objectives, JXTG Nippon Oil & Energy gender, age, nationality, race, ethnicity, skin color, culture, house training for officers, including the president, and employJXTG Holdings and JXTG Nippon Oil & Energy have introduced endeavors to maintain work environments where all employthought, religion, belief, political opinions, sexual orientation ees and other initiatives, and monitoring progress through the a system whereby employees can defer job transfers up to a ees in all stages of life can balance their work and private (LGBT), the presence or absence of disability, and any familial committee. maximum of three years for personal reasons, such as marriage lives while maintaining motivation to work. and personal circumstances, to create new value across the For details about our structure, see p. 51. or childbirth. entire organization for our continued growth. Spouse Accompaniment Job Transfer System We have stipulated such norms in the JXTG Group Code of Conduct, and have implemented a variety of initiatives for their Advancement of JXTG Holdings and JXTG Nippon Oil & Energy have introadvancement. Women in the Workplace ♥ duced a system whereby employees can request job transfers to specific regions to accompany a spouse who has To support the career planning and growth of our female been relocated to another part of Japan due to a job transfer. JXTG Group Code of Conduct (excerpt) employees, the JXTG Group is working to change attitudes toward workstyle among both male and female employees, and Spouse Accompaniment Leave of Absence (Retirement) 12. Establishment of a healthy work environment System has put various systems in place to support the work-life (1) We strive to enable all personnel to carry out their busibalance of all employees, both male and female. JXTG Holdings and JXTG Nippon Oil & Energy have introduced After the signing ceremony ness operations in the workplace with vigor, and to enable Furthermore, our Group companies have created their own a system whereby employees can request to be re-hired within Left: Tsutomu Sugimori, then president of JXTG Nippon Oil & Energy ourselves, our families and our colleagues to lead healthy Right: Tokiko Koso, director of Fathering Japan action plans for the advancement of women in the workplace in five years of taking leave of absence or retiring to accompany a and cultured lives by promoting health care and work-life balance. accordance with the Act on Promotion of Women s Participaspouse who was relocated due to a job transfer. tion and Advancement in the Workplace, enacted on April 1, Promoting Career Opportunities for (2) We promote diversity in order to enable diverse individuals to maximize their abilities. 2016, and have implemented measures for the achievement of Employees with Disabilities ♥ (3) We strive to secure and maintain a pleasant work environthese plans. Diversity and Inclusion ♥ The JXTG Group views disability as one of many characteristics ment through interactive dialogue and ongoing communiFor details about our systems promoting work-life balance, that make up a person s individuality, and fosters an environcation. see p. 63. In accordance with the basic approach below, the JXTG Group ment where employees with disabilities can thrive by assigning (4) We strive to train our people, and seek to enhance the actively incorporates diversity and inclusion to create new value each person to a job and workplace suited to his or her own abilities of ourselves and others. across the entire organization for our continued growth. individuality and aptitude. (5) We shall obtain the necessary confirmation and approval Goals of Action Plan on the Advancement of WomMoreover, workplace adaptation assistance is provided for from the appropriate person(s) with authority before we en in the Workplace We implement fair and equal hiring practices that ensure employees with disabilities, including the provision of work-life commence any religious activity, political activity, or any JXTG Nippon Oil & Energy: Ensure that the ratio of women diversity. consultants and job coaches. similar activities during work. among newly hired university graduates in fiscal 2020 is at We endeavor to maintain a healthy work environment For fiscal 2018, the percentage of employees with disabilileast 25%. and carry out effective human resource development to ties was 2.4%, higher than the legal requirement of 2.2%. JX Nippon Oil & Gas Exploration: Maintain the percentage maximize the talents of a diverse workforce. Structure of female workers at 15% of the employed workforce. We work to foster a corporate culture where each and Re-employment of Retired Workers JX Nippon Mining & Metals: Steadily increase the number every employee understands the importance of diversity, The JXTG Group has put in place a re-employment program for of female employees and ensure that the ratio of women and where employees respect each other, help each other, The Human Rights Promotion and Human Resource Developworkers who have the desire and motivation to continue workamong newly hired university graduates is at least 30% in and grow together. ment Committee, chaired by the officer (director) responsible for ing after mandatory retirement. This program provides these order to cultivate female managers early on. the Human Resources Department of JXTG Holdings, has been employees with further opportunities to share their valuable established under the JXTG Group CSR Council, which is Ikuboss Corporate Alliance Membership and knowledge, skills, and experience with the company. chaired by the president of JXTG Holdings. Activities In fiscal 2018, the number of workers re-employed after The committee is responsible for deliberation on GroupOn September 21, 2017, JXTG Nippon Oil & Energy joined the retirement was 589. wide policies and approaches to work-life management, diversi♥： Indicates the Group s top CSR priorities. Please see pp. 5–6. Ikuboss Corporate Alliance, established by Fathering Japan. Note: Data from JXTG Holdings and core operating companies. 61 JXTG REPORT ESG DATA BOOK 2019 JXTG REPORT ESG DATA BOOK 2019 62 Comparative Table with Comparative Table with Governance Report Environmental Report Social Report Data GRI Standards Governance Report Environmental Report Social Report Data GRI Standards Human Resource Healthy Work Supply Chain Human Resource Healthy Work Supply Chain Safety Human Rights Health Environment Quality Social Contribution Safety Human Rights Health Environment Quality Social Contribution Development Management Development Management Creation of Local Jobs Proper Management of Total Annual Working Utilization of Major Systems in Fiscal 2018 The JXTG Group is actively engaged in employing local staff at Hours Number of employees taking our overseas operating sites. The JXTG Group defines those regulations related to Japan s 220 (of which 171 are male) childcare leave Labor Standard Act̶such as working hours, rest periods, days Number of Locally Hired Staff at Overseas Sites Percentage of employees returning 100% off, and leave̶as human resource regulations. to work after taking childcare leave (Fiscal 2018) (Persons) In addition, Group companies are committed to eliminating JXTG Nippon Oil & Energy 1,056 Retention rate 12 months after unpaid work, and have put in place systems to accurately 98.7% returning to work JX Nippon Oil & Gas Exploration 413 JX Nippon Mining & Metals 2,601 monitor and manage employees working hours, while various Number of employees taking family 5 Total 4,070 initiatives have been implemented to reduce total annual workcare leave ing hours (reducing overtime work and encouraging taking of Note: Data from JXTG Holdings and core operating companies. Initiatives for LGBT (Sexual Minorities) annual paid leave). JXTG Nippon Oil & Energy has implemented departmentand rank-based training, e-learning and other activities as part of Encouraging Employees to Take Annual Paid human rights awareness training in order to promote underLeave Corporate Culture Reforms standing towards sexual minorities among our employees in The JXTG Group promotes various initiatives at our Group accordance with the JXTG Group Code of Conduct. A contact companies to encourage employees to take annual paid leave. point has also been established for consultation and inquiries. Wakuwaku Council Status of Annual Paid Leave in Fiscal 2018 In October 2018, JXTG Nippon Oil & Energy was awarded The JXTG Group Philosophy cites taking on challenges and A dedicated webpage called Spring of Enthusiasm – Number of days granted 22.0 moving forward as important values for realizing a vibrant Challenge and Transformation was established on our the Silver Award by work with Number of days taken 19.8 future. Therefore, in fiscal 2019 we launched the Wakuwaku intranet. Here, we post meeting summaries of the WakuwaPride* based on their PRIDE Usage rate 90.0% Council to discuss and implement initiatives to foster and ku Council in an effort to increase understanding of the Index 2018, an evaluation index Note: Data from JXTG Holdings and core operating companies. instill a corporate culture where employees understand and direction of reforms and improve internal communication. on programs related to LGBT and embrace the JXTG Group Philosophy and business targets, We also post examples of challenges taken on by Group sexual minorities within businesses Major Systems Supporting Work-Life Balance and take on challenges with enthusiasm. companies in order to foster a sense of unity and shared and organizations. The council, which will meet biannually, comprises awareness. Furthermore, we announced a Declaration of The JXTG Group has in place various systems to support * A private organization that supports the promotion and instillment of diversity senior management from Group companies, including the Conduct for Group Management, which we are working management concerning sexual minorities, including LGBT, within business work-life balance at our Group companies. presidents of JXTG Holdings and the core operating comto communicate throughout the Group. The effectiveness organizations. panies. Since its establishment in 2017, the JXTG Group of these initiatives will be ascertained through JXTG Major Systems Supporting Work-Life Balance at has implemented corporate culture reforms based on the Group employee awareness surveys and dialogue sesGroup Companies Work-Life Management System Implemented at PDCA cycle using employee awareness surveys. The sions between senior management and employees. Time off before and after childbirth All Group companies council will discuss challenges and measures for boosting In accordance with the basic approach below, the JXTG Time off to care for an ill child All Group companies employee enthusiasm and continue efforts for corporate Group aims to reduce total annual working hours and enChildcare leave All Group companies culture reform. Special time off for wife s courage the taking of annual paid leave to increase the childbirth All Group companies Childbirth/ motivation and creativity of each and every employee and Childcare Return-to-work grant JX Nippon Mining & Metals Childcare concierge service JX Nippon Mining & Metals Declaration of Conduct for Group Management enable them to maximize their abilities. JXTG Holdings, JXTG Nippon Oil & Energy, Support for babysitter use JX Nippon Mining & Metals (1) Listen to proposals with an open mind and take the Childcare subsidies JXTG Holdings, JXTG Nippon Oil & Energy, lead in trying new things rather than simply doing JX Nippon Mining & Metals Guideline Time off for family care/Family things as they have been done in the past. All Group companies care leave (2) Make decisions promptly without demanding excesTo allow adequate time for each and every employee to Family care leave allowance All Group companies Family JXTG Holdings, JXTG Nippon Oil & Energy, sive documentation or groundwork. achieve a good balance between work and private life, we Home helper subsidies care JX Nippon Mining & Metals promote the reduction of total annual working hours and Family care subsidies JX Nippon Mining & Metals Wakuwaku Council in session encourage the taking of annual paid leave by improving Re-hiring system for retirement JX Nippon Oil & Gas Exploration due to family care productivity and workflow. Shorter workday All Group companies We work to ensure the establishment and utilization of efExemption from unscheduled work All Group companies Flextime All Group companies fective human resource systems and programs, so that Cumulative annual paid leave JX Nippon Mining & Metals even employees limited in their workstyles by circumPaid time off for personal injury or JXTG Holdings, JXTG Nippon Oil & Energy, illness JX Nippon Oil & Gas Exploration stances, such as childcare and family care, can achieve JXTG Holdings, JXTG Nippon Oil & Energy, Hospitalization subsidy sustainable career development and performance. JX Nippon Oil & Gas Exploration Leave system for supporting We raise employee awareness to promote understanding continuation of career JX Nippon Oil & Gas Exploration of the importance of work-life management. General Return-to-work system JX Nippon Mining & Metals Working from home All Group companies Exemption from late-night work All Group companies Telework system JXTG Holdings, JXTG Nippon Oil & Energy Job transfer deferment system JXTG Holdings, JXTG Nippon Oil & Energy Study abroad (at own expense) JXTG Holdings, JXTG Nippon Oil & Energy leave of absence system Spouse accompaniment job transfer system JXTG Holdings, JXTG Nippon Oil & Energy Spouse accompaniment leave of JXTG Holdings, JXTG Nippon Oil & Energy absence (retirement) system 63 JXTG REPORT ESG DATA BOOK 2019 JXTG REPORT ESG DATA BOOK 2019 64 Comparative Table with Comparative Table with Governance Report Environmental Report Social Report Data GRI Standards Governance Report Environmental Report Social Report Data GRI Standards Human Resource Healthy Work Quality Supply Chain Human Resource Healthy Work Quality Supply Chain Safety Human Rights Health Social Contribution Safety Human Rights Health Social Contribution Development Environment Management Development Environment Management Business Sites with ISO 9001 Certification Sendai Refinery; Chiba Refinery; Kawasaki Refinery; Negishi Refinery; Sakai Refinery; Wakayama Refinery; Mizushima Refinery; JXTG Nippon Oil & Energy Marifu Refinery; Oita Refinery; Yokohama Plant; Chita Plant; Sodegaura Terminal; Kashima Refinery, Kashima Oil Co., Ltd.; Osaka Refinery, Osaka International Refining Company, Limited; Tonen Chemical Corporation Kawasaki Plant Quality JX Nippon Oil & Gas Nakajo Field Office Exploration Hitachi Works (Copper Foil Dept.); Isohara Works; Kurami Works; JX Nippon Exploration and Development Co., Ltd.; Pan Pacific Copper Co., Ltd. (Hibi Smelter, Saganoseki Smelter & Refinery, Hitachi Refinery); Hibi Kyodo Smelting Co., Ltd.; Domestic Japan Copper Casting Co., Ltd.; JX Nippon Coil Center Co., Ltd.; JX Metals Trading Co., Ltd. (Takatsuki Plant); JX Nippon Mining Ichinoseki Foil Manufacturing Co., Ltd.; JX Metals Precision Technology Co., Ltd. (Tatebayashi Works, Esashi Works, Nasu Works, & Metals Kakegawa Works); Toho Titanium Co., Ltd. (Headquarters, Chigasaki Plant, Hitachi Plant, Yahata Plant, Wakamatsu Plant, Kurobe Plant) Basic Approach Nippon Mining & Metals (Suzhou) Co., Ltd.; Nikko Fuji Precision (Wuxi) Co., Ltd.; Nikko Metals Shanghai Co., Ltd.; JXTG Nippon Oil & Energy Group Quality Policy Overseas Nikko Metals Taiwan Co., Ltd.; JX Nippon Mining & Metals Philippines, Inc.; Materials Service Complex Malaysia Sdn. Bhd.; JX Nippon Mining & Metals Korea Co., Ltd. The JXTG Group believes that the provision of high-quality, safe, We seek to earn the trust and satisfaction of our customers Head office, Hokkaido branch, Tohoku branch, Kanto Daiichi branch, Kanto Daini branch, Hoku-shinetsu branch, Chubu branch, and reliable products and services that provide customer by adopting a customer-oriented perspective and adhering NIPPO CORPORATION Kansai branch, Shikoku branch, Chugoku branch, Kyushu branch, Architect Department satisfaction is an important element in gaining the trust of our to the following. customers and achieving sustainable growth. Based on this 1. Provide products and services that are safe and can be approach, we have stipulated product and service quality in our used with peace of mind; Initiatives at Manufacturing Sites Initiatives at Distribution Sites Group Code of Conduct. Each Group company has established its own quality 2. Maintain and continuously strive to enhance the quality of Thorough preventive measures are carried out at JXTG Nippon As part of our quality management efforts at distribution sites, management policies according to the nature of its business our products and services; and Oil & Energy refineries and plants to eliminate quality-related we work with freight companies to ensure that all procedures, and works to continuously improve quality from a customer-ori3. Provide customers with accurate information that is easy issues and prevent recurrence. from product loading to unloading, are carried out safely and ented perspective based on these policies. to understand. without error. Standardization of Quality Management and Major initiatives for preventing accidents include the installaAssurance Procedures tion of state-of-the-art equipment to prevent the mixing of JXTG Group Code of Conduct (excerpt) All of our refineries and plants have obtained ISO 9001 certificaproducts on tank trucks that transport gasoline, kerosene, and JX Nippon Mining & Metals Basic Quality Policy tion. In addition, we focused on ISO 9001 requirements for the diesel, and thorough implementation of procedures, such as 6. Product and service quality manufacture of oil and petrochemical products to develop the having both customers and truck drivers present during unload(1) We always conduct our business activities with a spirit of 1. Correctly grasp the requirements of customers and society in order to offer products and services that customers Quality Management System as a JXTG Nippon Oil & Energy ing. innovation and a willingness to take on challenges. can trust and that satisfy their needs. framework, which we have implemented at all sites. When transporting packaged lubricant products by truck, (2) We strive to contribute to the solution of domestic and One of the features of this system is the performance of risk we work to prevent transport-related issues by having both international social issues and gain customer satisfaction 2. Improve and maintain quality at all processes from develassessments and risk reduction measures to prevent quality-recustomers and truck drivers check the destination, product and trust by developing and providing innovative technolopment, design, and production to delivery, while paying ogy and useful products and services. due attention to safety and environmental conservation. lated issues from occurring. Employees at all manufacturing name, packing condition, quantity and appearance during (3) We comply with domestic and international standards for sites learn quality risk analysis methods, enabling them to identiunloading, and also encourage the practice of pointing and 3. Establish a quality management system, carry out continfy risks and take appropriate measures to address them, thus calling. the products and services we provide. We perform quality ual improvements, and develop human resources. control and risk management, covering areas such as contributing to the achievement of proactive, highly effective safety, security, environment and health. We also strive to 4. Comply with all pertinent laws and regulations of Japan quality management. provide a stable supply of goods and services, even in the and other countries, and provide customers and society Initiatives at Service Stations event of emergencies. with accurate information on quality. Information Sharing about Quality (4) We always provide our customers with appropriate and Complaints and Issues At our service stations, we work with operators to improve clear labels and explanations on our products and serInformation about quality complaints and issues that have product quality management and customer satisfaction. vices, and we respond promptly and sincerely to customer inquiries. Structure occurred at refineries and plants is shared via databases with Product quality management initiatives, including regular other refineries and plants, and company-wide measures to inspections of weighing devices, underground tanks and other (5) In the event of malfunctions in our products or services, we strive to conduct exhaustive investigations and impleThe JXTG Group positions quality as a priority field for CSR prevent recurrence are discussed and implemented, thus facilities, are implemented at our service stations, and we have ment measures to prevent recurrence. activities. Our Group companies regularly oversee, evaluate, contributing to the future prevention of quality-related issues. developed a quality management manual to ensure proper and share information about the status of quality-related initiaday-to-day management to prevent mixing of water and oil tives. products and to improve knowledge and skills in order to Many of our business sites in Japan and overseas have Inspection of Quality Management Systems ensure quick and appropriate response to product quality obtained ISO 9001 certification, a global standard for quality We seek to improve the quality management systems of our issues should they occur. management systems. refineries and plants by carrying out inspections based on the Quality Management System. The strengths and weaknesses of the system at each location are identified and shared throughout the company, enabling us to make further improvements to these systems. In fiscal 2018, audits based on this Quality Management System were carried out for all refineries and plants. 65 JXTG REPORT ESG DATA BOOK 2019 JXTG REPORT ESG DATA BOOK 2019 66 Comparative Table with Comparative Table with Governance Report Environmental Report Social Report Data GRI Standards Governance Report Environmental Report Social Report Data GRI Standards Human Resource Healthy Work Supply Chain Human Resource Healthy Work Supply Chain Safety Human Rights Health Quality Social Contribution Safety Human Rights Health Quality Social Contribution Development Environment Management Development Environment Management Strengthening the Quality Audit Addressing Customer Needs Function from a Third-Party Perspective JXTG Nippon Oil & Energy receives valuable feedback from our customers through the JXTG Customer Service Center. The Supply Chain As part of its efforts to strengthen its quality management structure, JX Nippon Mining & Metals has established the JXTG Customer Service Center responds to enquiries with clear, courteous explanations and addresses complaints Management Quality Control Department, which is in charge of planning, promptly and in good faith. We share customer feedback proposing and implementing policies aimed at maintaining as obtained through the JXTG Customer Service Center with the well as improving quality management. From a position inderelevant departments. pendent from the company s business operations, the Quality From April 2018 to March 2019, we received a total of Control Department conducts quality audits of all business sites 22,010 enquiries. Basic Approach JX Nippon Mining & Metals Group to ascertain whether quality management is being appropriately In the quality design for products and the establishment of Basic Procurement Policy implemented. manufacturing standards, we conform to laws, regulations, and At the JXTG Group, we work to fulfill our social responsibilities The company also established the Quality Control Commitstandards such as JIS, as well as the contractual specifications across the entire supply chain by cooperating with suppliers of Basic Policy of the JX Nippon Mining & Metals Group tee, meetings of which are attended by management, to of our customers. In addition, to prevent customer use issues raw materials, logistics companies, construction companies, ascertain whether the quality management structure is functionwith our products, we carry out in-depth studies, utilizing our sales companies and others involved in our business activities, 1. Comply with laws, regulations, and rules and engage in fair transactions. ing properly and to share any issues. abundant experience and knowledge as a database, to ensure while carrying out initiatives for compliance, environmental Respect the letter and spirit of relevant laws and social that we provide reliable products of the highest quality. preservation, human rights and labor, and safety and health. norms in executing business operations. Initiatives in Quality Control We have stated this approach in the JXTG Group Code of Conduct purchasing activities based on fair evaluations. Education Conduct, and we have also established basic procurement Maintain appropriate relationships with business partners policies for our Group companies in accordance with their based on the highest ethical values. At JX Nippon Mining & Metals, a quality control education business characteristics. Based on these policies, we work system has been developed with the following three objectives: toward the continuous improvement of our procurement 2. Protect intellectual property rights. activities. Strictly control personal information obtained in the course To standardize and raise quality control levels across the JX of procurement activities. Nippon Mining & Metals Group; Do not illegally obtain or illegally use intellectual property, To improve problem-solving capability, enabling employees to JXTG Group Code of Conduct (excerpt) including the patents, utility models, designs, and tradelogically deduce the causes of problems and take the lead in marks of third parties, and do not infringe on such rights. Applicable Scope of the Code of Conduct solving them; and 3. Build relationships with business partners based To pass along and inculcate quality control techniques. In principle, this Code of Conduct is applicable to all direcon mutual understanding and trust. tors, officers and employees who work at JXTG Holdings, Inc., and its subsidiaries. We also encourage companies that Provide business partners with high reliability and satisfacA dedicated department provides quality management training tion through accurate, fast, and highly transparent activiare part of our value chain to comply with this Code of Conyear round based on the company s own training manual for all duct. These companies include, but are not limited to, supties. employees, from new hires to management. pliers of raw materials, logistics companies, construction Endeavor to achieve robust communication with business companies, and sales companies. partners and consistently promote creativity and innovation through advanced ideas. Quality Control Education System Contribute to the development of a sustainable society by promoting the purchase of environmentally friendly materiStatistical methods and specific methods Practical methods Advanced methods Quality awareness als and machinery. JXTG Nippon Oil & Energy General manager level Compulsory Optional CSR Procurement Policy 4. Follow the principles below regarding conflict Experimental Design Practical minerals. Taguchi Method Problem-Solving 1. Conduct purchasing activities based on the JXTG Group Data Mining Seminar Courses Do not engage in raw materials procurement that contribFailure analysis and prevention Code of Conduct and relevant policies, and strive to gain Seven New QC Tools (N7) Manager level Quality Management: for Managers understanding and cooperation from business partners utes to illegal activities in conflict-affected regions or to Work Improvement with regard to the Code of Conduct. human rights infringements through such illegal activities. Five Why Analysis Level Coordinator level BSC Quality Assurance and Intermediate Quality Management 2. Place emphasis on conducting transactions on an equal Respect the guidance of the Organisation for Economic Seminars for footing with business partners with whom a sustainable Co-operation and Development related to raw materials Quality Management: Coordinators and Supervisor level Supervisors partnership is possible, and aim to establish a mutually procurement from conflict-affected areas, and control Introductory trusting relationship. supply chains in an appropriate manner. Operator level Elementary 3. Consider a wide range of potential business partners and determine their suitability from a comprehensive standIntroduction New employees point, taking into account factors such as quality, price, delivery, and stable supply requirements, as well as attention to the environment and greater society. 67 JXTG REPORT ESG DATA BOOK 2019 JXTG REPORT ESG DATA BOOK 2019 68 Comparative Table with Comparative Table with Governance Report Environmental Report Social Report Data GRI Standards Governance Report Environmental Report Social Report Data GRI Standards Human Resource Healthy Work Supply Chain Human Resource Healthy Work Supply Chain Safety Human Rights Health Quality Management Social Contribution Safety Human Rights Health Quality Management Social Contribution Development Environment Development Environment Green Procurement Confronting the Issue of Conflict Initiatives for the Tantalum Supply Chain JX Nippon Mining & Metals Group The JXTG Group practices green procurement, which prioritizes Minerals H.C. Starck Tantalum and Niobium GmbH ( HCS TaNb ), a Basic Procurement Policy equipment and materials with lower environmental impacts. To producer of tantalum powder, implements a strict program of Policy for Selecting Procurement Partners ensure the utilization of green procurement, the Group periodiIndustry organizations relevant to the JX Nippon Mining & purchasing checks based on international standards for procurIn all of its business activities, the JX Nippon Mining & Metals cally conducts surveys of its suppliers. Metals Group (including the LBMA1 and RBA2) have established ing raw materials from conflict-affected and high-risk areas. For Group must fulfill its social responsibilities, including not only In fiscal 2018, surveys were sent from JXTG Nippon Oil & monitoring programs for eliminating conflict minerals. Under example, HCS TaNb purchases materials with tags that the those in the Group but in the supply chain of its business partEnergy to 165 suppliers, with responses received from 159 supthese programs, companies are requested to carry out surveys ITSCI*4 distributes and tracks to guarantee non-involvement in ners as well. For this reason, the Group asks that its business pliers, a response rate of 96%. and undergo external audits by third-party organizations. conflicts, child labor, or other human rights violations within partners comply with the following. In the JX Nippon Mining & Metals Group, surveys were sent Accordingly, the JX Nippon Mining & Metals Group has conflict-affected areas. HCS TaNb also performs supply chain 1. Comply with laws, regulations, and social norms, to 449 suppliers in fiscal 2018, accounting for 95% of the value included a clause on the exclusion of conflict minerals in its due diligence to confirm the tags. As a results of these initiasuch as those below, and place priority on human of items purchased and accepted by JX Nippon Mining & Basic Procurement Policy, and has established and operates tives, HCS TaNb has been included on the RMAP Conformant rights and environmental impact. Metals, JX Nippon Environmental Services, and Pan Pacific management systems to appropriately address this issue. Smelters list in recognition that HCS TaNb is taking proper Obey laws and regulations related to manufacturing and Copper. Responses were received from 435 suppliers, a 1 measures to exclude conflict minerals. London Bullion Market Association (LBMA). An industry association composed sales, etc. response rate of 97%. of financial institutions and others that deal in gold and silver ingot. Inclusion on In addition, in June 2019, HCS TaNb implemented a supply Comply with labor-related laws and regulations. The survey results are used for the selection of procurement this association s Good Delivery List is viewed as a guarantee of high quality and chain due diligence system similar to ITSCI through the Better reliability. Abide by laws and regulations related to safety and health partners as applicable. 2 Responsible Business Alliance (RBA). An industry coalition for ensuring Sourcing Program (BSP) provided by RCS Global Group, an and develop a proper labor environment. responsible conduct in supply chains within the electronics industry. international auditing organization for raw material supply Prohibit child labor and forced labor. CSR Procurement chains. Prohibit discrimination based on race, gender, etc., and reFurther expanding its green procurement efforts, the JXTG Initiatives for the Gold and Silver Supply 4 ITRI Tin Supply Chain Initiative. An initiative of the International Tin Research spect the human rights, personality, and individuality of emGroup implements CSR procurement, which focuses on factors Chains Institute (ITRI), a global industry organization. It aims to promote implementation of due diligence from mine to smelter as well as procurement of minerals from ployees. such as compliance, environmental impact reduction, human Pan Pacific Copper, a producer of gold ingot, and JX Nippon mines in conflict-affected areas that do not benefit armed groups, based on Comply with environmental laws and regulations. rights and labor, and health and safety. Mining & Metals, a producer of silver ingot, have established OECD guidelines. Prohibit bribery and other unfair conduct. In addition, JXTG Nippon Oil & Energy established the JXTG and operate management systems for supply chain due diliDo not engage in conflict minerals procurement or use that Nippon Oil & Energy CSR Procurement Policy in July 2018. In gence, which includes the following requirements. contributes to inhumane acts. addition to a request for understanding of and cooperation with Initiatives with Distribution Shut out relations with antisocial forces. the JXTG Group Code of Conduct, on which the policy is 1. Performance of supply chain due diligence before the Companies based, the company s basic purchasing contract contains purchase of mineral raw materials (confirmation of 2. Engage in sound and fair business management. provisions on legal compliance, safety and health, and attention material source origin, performance of risk assessment, JXTG Nippon Oil & Energy provides training and carries out 3. Based on the JX Nippon Mining & Metals Group s to the environment, which are basic contractual conditions for item confirmation upon delivery, distribution route activities to raise awareness among all contract transport Green Purchasing Guidelines, build environmendoing business with the company. confirmation, retention of relevant documents, etc.) providers responsible for transporting its products in an effort to tal management systems and properly manage specified chemical substances. In fiscal 2018, 413 procurement partners in Japan, ac2. Notification to suppliers of the policy on the exclusion of increase awareness of safety, improve safety practices, and counting for 80% of the value of items purchased and acceptconflict minerals encourage eco-friendly driving. 4. Offer stable supply capacity and satisfy the quality, price, delivery, and service requirements of the ed, attended training sessions for promoting understanding of 3. Implementation of in-house training on supply chain due At the start of every fiscal year, the company hosts a JX Nippon Mining & Metals Group. and cooperation with this policy, and also responded to a diligence and its background meeting between management and all contract transport survey for risk assessment. During the sessions, we also 4. Implementation of internal audits and undergoing providers to share the safety policy and goals for that particular 5. Possess technological capabilities that meet the requirements of the JX Nippon Mining & Metals external audits requested understanding of and cooperation with the JXTG fiscal year. Group. Group Code of Conduct. Based on analysis of the survey The company hosts a safe delivery contest intended to results, we will share measures to be implemented with our Operation of supply chain due diligence is audited by a improve drivers driving techniques and unloading work. It also procurement partners and make necessary corrections and third-party organization specified by the LBMA, and the results shares good practices of transport companies at the safety improvements through appropriate dialogue, such as interviews. are reported to the LBMA. As a result of following these procemanager meeting held in the autumn. Through these activities, In addition, in fiscal 2019, JX Nippon Mining & Metals and dures, the gold ingot produced at Pan Pacific Copper s Sagathe company is proactively working to raise awareness about JX Nippon Oil & Gas Exploration, as well as their Group companoseki Smelter & Refinery and silver ingot produced at the safety among distribution companies. nies, introduced CSR procurement, and are working to obtain Hitachi Works of JX Nippon Mining & Metals are included on the the cooperation of their procurement partners. LBMA s Good Delivery List. In addition, Saganoseki Smelter & Through CSR procurement, we will continue our efforts to Refinery and Hitachi Works are included on the RMAP Conidentify human rights issues in the JXTG Group supply chain. formant Smelters list established by RBA and GeSI3, acknowledgement that we are taking appropriate steps to eliminate conflict minerals. 3 Global e-Sustainability Initiative: An organization of European information and communication technology businesses. It has established a certification program called Responsible Minerals Assurance Process (RMAP) in collaboration with RBA, as both the electronics and telecommunication devices industries are at high risk of incorporating conflict minerals in their products. Training session for procurement partners 69 JXTG REPORT ESG DATA BOOK 2019 JXTG REPORT ESG DATA BOOK 2019 70 Comparative Table with Comparative Table with Governance Report Environmental Report Social Report Data GRI Standards Governance Report Environmental Report Social Report Data GRI Standards Human Resource Healthy Work Supply Chain Social Contribution Human Resource Healthy Work Supply Chain Social Contribution Safety Human Rights Health Quality Safety Human Rights Health Quality Development Environment Management Development Environment Management Educational Support Children s Story Award. Proceeds from sales are donated to Since 2006, JX Nippon Oil & Gas Exploration has provided fund picture book promotion activities and scholarships. scholarships to students in need through the Ho Chi Minh JXEV is committed to supporting the growth of picture Social Contribution Association for Education Promotion, a public institution working to improve education in Vietnam. In 2018, scholarships were books in order to foster healthy minds among children in Japan and Vietnam. awarded to 40 students. Basic Approach Expenditures for Social Contribution Activities (Billion yen) The JXTG Group believes that promoting dialogue, cooperation 4.0 and collaboration in the areas where we conduct our business 3.2 Awards ceremony for the children s story contest 3.0 2.9 3.0 operations to build robust relationships of trust with local 2.0 communities is an important element in the continuation of our Scholarship presentation ceremony business activities and the realization of sustainable develop1.0 ment. 0 We have also made a donation of 100,000 US dollars to Based on this belief, we have established the JXTG Group 2016 2017 2018 (FY) PetroVietnam University, established in 2011 by PetroVietnam, Code of Conduct as a basic policy of the Group. We are also Notes: Results for fiscal 2016 represent the sum of the former JX Group and the the state oil company of Vietnam, as a petroleum university former TonenGeneral Group. striving to contribute to the economic and social development Actual values are the sum of expenditures for social contribution activities whose goal is to develop human resources to lead the petroleof the communities in which we operate in Japan and overseas reported to the Keidanren 1% (One-Percent) Club plus donations of money um industry. Since then, we have continued to provide scholarand goods, etc. by utilizing local companies, employing local staff and carrying ships and funding for operations, and hosted interns from the Children reading the Vietnamese translation of A Bouquet of out a variety of other activities. university. In September 2018, a graduation ceremony was held Children’s Stories from the JXTG Children s Story Award Initiatives in Vietnam for the university s third class of graduates. JXTG Group Code of Conduct (excerpt) The JXTG Nippon Oil & Energy Group and JX Nippon Oil & Gas Initiatives in Malaysia Exploration continue to support the development of youth in 13. Contribution to the development of civil society Vietnam, one of the countries where they have operations, As a project operator in Malaysia, JX Nippon Oil & Gas Explora(1) We respect the environment, culture and customs in all of through a variety of social contribution activities. tion conducts a variety of social contribution activities closely in our business locations, and communicate, cooperate and tune with the needs of local communities. collaborate with local communities, local governments, Support for Construction of School We also provide support for local cultural and sporting and civic groups, among others. Buildings events. (2) We contribute to the development of civil society through social contribution activities. In Vietnam, JX Nippon Oil & Gas Exploration provides donations for the construction of schools and supports vocational training facilities to enable young people with disabilities resulting from Graduation and new school term commencement cerContribution to Community Events emony at PetroVietnam University Structure the effects of defoliants to participate in society. The company As a proud sponsor of the Sarawak Regatta (boat race) and also provides the schools with teaching materials. the Borneo Jazz Festival, annual events in the state of SarWith social contribution positioned as a priority field for CSR In fiscal 2018, we provided support for the construction of A Bouquet of Children’s Stories Contest by awak, we play a part in promoting culture and sports in local activities, the JXTG Group regularly summarizes, evaluates and Trieu Trung Junior High School in Quang Tri Province. JXTG and MOGU communities. shares information on these activities as part of its CSR promoJXTG Nippon Oil & Energy Group company JX Nippon Oil & tion structure. Support for Construction of School Buildings Energy Vietnam Consulting and Holdings Co., Ltd. (JXEV) See pp. 7–8 for the Group s CSR promotion structure. 2002 Muong Phang Elementary School in Dien Bien Province sponsors the Bouquet of Children s Stories Contest by JXTG 2005 Vocational training facility in Quang Tri Province and MOGU, a contest for children s stories that began in 2018 Expenditures for Social Contribution 2007 Thanh Tuyen Junior High School in Ha Nam Province as an event commemorating the 45th anniversary of diplomatic Activities 2008 Binh An Junior High School in Ha Tinh Province relations between Japan and Vietnam. 2009 Trieu Dai Elementary School in Quang Tri Province In fiscal 2018, the first year of the contest, the first creative 2011 Vocational training facility in Ha Tinh Province In fiscal 2018, the total expenditure by the Group for the implechildren s story contest in Vietnam, around 260 submissions 2012 Nguyen Binh Khiem High School in Hai Phong City mentation of social contribution activities in Japan and overwere received across the three categories of elementary school, 2013 Nguyen Truong To Elementary School in Ba Ria Vung Tau Province seas, plus donations of money and goods, was approximately junior high school and general. First place in the elementary The Sarawak Regatta Trieu Dai Elementary School in Quang Tri Province 3.2 billion yen. 2014 school category went to The Pouring Rain, written by 11-year(additional classrooms) While actively engaging in dialogue with local communities, 2015 Xuat Tac Kindergarten in Thai Nguyen Province old Phan Khanh An. we will continue to implement social contribution initiatives, 2016 Hoa Mai Kindergarten in Ba Ria Vung Tau Province A Bouquet of Children’s Stories, a compilation of all 14 which include activities involving the entire Group and activities 2017 Nguyen Ba Ngoc Elementary School in Dak Nong Province award-winning stories, is sold together with a Vietnamese unique to each Group company. 2018 Trieu Trung Junior High School in Quang Tri Province translation of A Bouquet of Children’s Stories from the JXTG 71 JXTG REPORT ESG DATA BOOK 2019 JXTG REPORT ESG DATA BOOK 2019 72 Comparative Table with Comparative Table with Governance Report Environmental Report Social Report Data GRI Standards Governance Report Environmental Report Social Report Data GRI Standards Human Resource Healthy Work Supply Chain Social Contribution Human Resource Healthy Work Supply Chain Social Contribution Safety Human Rights Health Quality Safety Human Rights Health Quality Development Environment Management Development Environment Management Assisting People in Need JXTG Children s Story Award Performances by Past Recipient of the We deliver gifts to economically disadvantaged families during Initiatives in Japan The JXTG Children s Story Award is a contest, open to the Children s Culture Award Ramadan (a month of fasting observed by Muslims) to support general public, for recognizing the best works from among JXTG Nippon Oil & Energy presented outreach performances at the activities of a local Muslim welfare association. Baseball Classes and Basketball Clinics submissions of original children s literature with the theme of elementary schools in Shizuoka, Miyagi, Okayama, Wakayama, The JXTG Group runs baseball classes and basketball clinics heart-to-heart. The award has been presented by the JXTG Osaka, Chiba and Kanagawa featuring performers from the each year throughout Japan. The sessions target elementary Group since 1970. Kazenoko Theatre Company, recipient of the 11th JXTG Chiland junior high school students, and are coached by active A total of 12,591 heartwarming entries were submitted for dren s Culture Award in 1976. players from the JX-ENEOS baseball team and the JX-ENEOS the 49th awards, presented in fiscal 2018. Designed to provide children with opportunities to nurture a Sunflowers women s basketball team. In fiscal 2018, we held 9 rich sensitivity and imagination, the performances delivered baseball classes for 578 participants and 73 basketball clinics inspiration to attendees, which totaled around 3,600. for 3,270 participants. ENEOS Summer Holiday Science Bus Tour for Fun Learning At the refineries of JXTG Nippon Oil & Energy, Summer Holiday Science Bus Tours for elementary school students and their JX Nippon Oil & Gas Exploration staff delivering a gift guardians are run in collaboration with various newspaper companies around the country. Initiatives in Chile Groups are taken on bus tours of refineries, where they Awards ceremony for the 49th JXTG Children s Story Award enjoy learning about refinery processes and the importance of JX Nippon Mining & Metals conducts a variety of social contrienergy resources. These tours are useful for the self-led rebution activities via Minera Lumina Copper Chile (MLCC), search homework assigned to students over the summer operator of the Caserones Copper Mine. Baseball class Scholarship Support for Children Living in holiday. Child Welfare Facilities These tours were held at nine of our locations in fiscal 2018, Support for the Establishment of a The JXTG Group sells copies of A Bouquet of Children’s with 704 participants, including children and their guardians. High-Altitude Laboratory by the University of Stories, a compilation of works awarded the JXTG Children s Atacama Story Award, to raise money for charity. All proceeds are donatMLCC donated to the establishment of a high-altitude research ed to the JXTG Scholarship Program, established by the Japan facility by the university. The university plans to build a laboratory National Council of Social Welfare (JNCSW), to be used as near the Nevado Ojos del Salado volcano, at an elevation of financial assistance when children living in child welfare facilities 3,800 meters above sea level, for conducting scientific research enroll in university or other institutions of higher education. in multiple fields of study. Positioning Atacama as a benchmark In April 2018, scholarship support was provided to 590 for resource exploration in high-altitude regions, the university is children (enrolling in fiscal 2018), bringing the total number of promoting international collaboration in interdisciplinary reBasketball clinic recipients since the scholarship program was created in fiscal search, and has expressed hopes for mutual technical coopera2003 to 5,362. tion with MLCC. Support for Disabled Sports JXTG Children s Culture Award and Music Bus tour at the Oita Refinery Sponsorship for the Japan Wheelchair Basketball Awards Federation The Children s Culture Award (founded in 1966) and the Music Since 2006, JXTG Nippon Oil & Energy has sponsored the Awards (founded in 1971) are presented by the JXTG Group to Japan Wheelchair Basketball Federation for the promotion of recognize contributions to the development and improvement wheelchair basketball. of music and children s culture in Japan, and to encourage Many employees and their families attend the tournaments future achievements. to cheer for the athletes and also volunteer to provide operational support and assistance. Sponsorship for the Japan Dream Baseball League Since 2007, JXTG Nippon Oil & Energy has been working for the promotion and development of baseball for people with The University of Atacama s high altitude laboratory disabilities as a sponsor of the Japan Dream Baseball League. Company employees and their families attend the tournaments, cheering for the players and contributing to the excitement of the games. 「JXTG児童文化賞・音楽賞」 表彰式の様子 Awards ceremony for the JXTG Children s Culture Award and Music Awards 73 JXTG REPORT ESG DATA BOOK 2019 JXTG REPORT ESG DATA BOOK 2019 74 Comparative Table with Comparative Table with Governance Report Environmental Report Social Report Data GRI Standards Governance Report Environmental Report Social Report Data GRI Standards Human Resource Healthy Work Supply Chain Social Contribution Human Resource Healthy Work Supply Chain Social Contribution Safety Human Rights Health Quality Safety Human Rights Health Quality Development Environment Management Development Environment Management Summer STEM Challenge 2018 Support for the Tonen International Rural Community Support Team Bread Sales Drives in Support of People with As part of the STEM Challenge (Experience Jobs in Science Scholarship Foundation JXTG Nippon Oil & Energy s Oita Refinery has been registered Disabilities and Technology) initiative, the JX Nippon Mining & Metals Group JXTG Nippon Oil & Energy provides scholarships for internawith Oita Prefecture s rural community support team program As part of its activities to foster greater employee awareness of hosted plant tours and interactive experiments for junior high tional students studying at Japanese graduate schools as a since fiscal 2009. This program supports small communities people with disabilities, JXTG Nippon Oil & Energy holds bread school students during their summer break at Isohara Works, way to promote friendship between Japan and other counthat find it difficult to mow grass along roadways or run local and baked goods sales drives run by staff from a bakery that Hitachi Works, Kurami Works, and Pan Pacific Copper s tries and contribute to greater society. festivals due to shortages of people caused by aging demoemploys people with disabilities. These activities not only Saganoseki Smelter & Refinery. graphics and depopulation. contribute to the bakery s sales but also offer a sense of enEngineers working at the tour locations taught participants Forest Stewardship Activities in ENEOS no Mori As part of this program, employees took part in the festival couragement through interactions with many of the company s about the strengths of copper, and why it is indispensable in The JXTG Group is involved in various forest stewardship of Yurugi Shrine located in the Kujuno area of Taketa City. Due employees, as well as providing indirect support for the employmodern society, along with the interesting nature of jobs in the activities at each of its Group companies. to depopulation and the aging population, the community had ment of people with disabilities. fields of science and technology. JXTG Nippon Oil & Energy carries out tree thinning, removal difficulty finding people to carry the mikoshi (portable shrine) for In fiscal 2018, bread sales drives for Koro-Koro bakery, of undergrowth, and other forest stewardship activities across this festival, which has a history of almost 1,000 years. The which began in fiscal 2015, were held on six occasions at the Japan in partnership with local governments, the National Land support team was welcomed by the local community for company s head office. Some of the company s refineries also Afforestation Promotion Organization (NLAPO) and others. In making it possible to pass down this important tradition. host baked goods sales drives by businesses in the local fiscal 2018, a total of 1,271 employees and their family memIn fiscal 2018, 14 employees donned traditional white community that employ people with disabilities. bers took part in the activities. clothing to take part in a Shinto ritual, after which they carried Since 1998, JX Nippon Oil & Gas Exploration has worked to the mikoshi in a procession. Assistance to Areas Affected by Major Disasters preserve the pine forest (coastal shelter forest) located on and The JXTG Group provides assistance to areas affected by around the site of its Nakajo Field Office in Niigata Prefecture. In major disasters. fiscal 2018, a total of 78 officers, employees and their families undertook forest preservation work together with nearby Assistance Provided in Fiscal 2018 residents. Donation for the torrential rains of July 2018 30 million yen July 2018 JX Nippon Mining & Metals promotes reforestation activities September Donation for the Hokkaido in cooperation with local forestry associations and other groups, 5 million yen Tour at the Kurami Works 2018 earthquake of 2018 especially at the sites of its closed mines. October Donation for the Sulawesi earth500 million Indonesian rupiah 2018 quake in Indonesia (approx. 3.75 million yen) Employees carrying the mikoshi (portable shrine) Disaster Relief Volunteer Activities for Summer Night Festivals Torrential Rains in Western Japan Every year, the JXTG Nippon Oil & Energy s refineries and the Based on its commitment to make a difference in the local Note: The STEM Challenge is an initiative established by the Cabinet Office to support female students (junior high, high school, and university level) JX Nippon Mining & Metals Group s main business locations community, JXTG Nippon Oil & Energy s Mizushima Refinery interested in science and technology in their selection of a future career path. hold summer festivals for the enjoyment of not only employees carried out disaster relief volunteer activities, including providing Both boys and girls can participate in the JX Nippon Mining & Metals Group initiative. and their families, but also the local community members. The supplies and lending out a microbus, in the Mabi district of festivities are enlivened by refreshment stands, prize drawings, Kurashiki City. Participants removed mud and furniture from and lion dance and other dance performances by local children. homes and provided other assistance. A total of 19 volunteer JX Nippon Oil & Gas Exploration ENEOS no Mori activity Some of the festivals feature performances of traditional persessions were held during the six-month period from July to International Student Scholarship forming arts or fireworks displays. These events have become a December 2018, with 293 employees taking part. Since it launched the JX Nippon Oil & Gas Exploration InternaPromoting Afforestation through the ENEOS much-anticipated summer tradition for local communities. tional Student Scholarship for international students studying in Credit Card Japan in fiscal 2015, JX Nippon Oil & Gas Exploration has Ever since ENEOS credit cards were first issued in October continued to assist international students from Papua New 2001, JXTG Nippon Oil & Energy has donated 0.01% of the Guinea, which is involved in the company s crude oil and LNG spending on these cards at ENEOS service stations to NLAPO. production business. These funds are being used to help support a host of environIn fiscal 2018, the scope of this scholarship program was mental programs run by the organization, including afforestation expanded to include international students from Indonesia, work, youth tree-planting activities, the revitalization of tropical which is involved in the company s LNG production business. forests and the prevention of desertification. Yamanokami Festival at Hitachi Works In fiscal 2018, approximately 43.17 million yen was donatRubble removal work ed, bringing total donations through this initiative to about 510 Joint Disaster Drills with Local Governments Support for the TonenGeneral Sekiyu R&D Introduction of Volunteer Activity Leave million yen. At the oil refineries and depots of JXTG Nippon Oil & Energy, Encouragement and Assistance Foundation System disaster drills are conducted in collaboration with local governJXTG Nippon Oil & Energy presents scholarships to ments, fire departments and other relevant groups, using JXTG Holdings and JXTG Nippon Oil & Energy have established undergraduate and graduate students studying science and scenarios of a major disaster or accident in a refinery. a special leave system that allows employees to take up to technology and provides research grants to young researchers In addition to carrying out practical drills to strengthen three days off during the year to participate in company-apin order to contribute to the development of industry and systems for cooperation in the event of a disaster, the company proved volunteer activities. industrial technologies. works to ensure that local residents can live their lives with Through the introduction of this system, we offer support for peace of mind. the volunteer activities of our employees. ENEOS credit card 75 JXTG REPORT ESG DATA BOOK 2019 JXTG REPORT ESG DATA BOOK 2019 76 Comparative Table with Governance Report Environmental Report Social Report Data GRI Standards Governance Item FY2016 FY2017 FY2018 Number of meetings 14 15 14 From April 1: 25 From April 1: 22 Number of members 19 From June 28: 22 From June 27: 18 Board of Directors From April 1: 5 From April 1: 4 Number of independent outside directors 4 From June 28: 4 From June 27: 6 Average attendance rate (%) 98.9 98.6 97.3 Number of meetings 15 16 4 From April 1: 7 Number of members 5 6 From June 28: 6 Board of Corporate Auditors Number of independent outside corporate From April 1: 4 auditors 3 3 From June 28: 3 Average attendance rate (%) 96.0 100.0 100.0 Number of meetings 11 Number of members 5 Audit and Supervisory Committee Number of independent outside directors (Audit and Supervisory Committee members) 3 Average attendance rate (%) 96.4 Number of meetings 2 3 4 Number of members 4 6 6 Compensation Advisory Committee Number of independent outside directors 2 3 3 Average attendance rate (%) 100.0 100.0 95.7 Number of meetings 3 3 4 Number of members 4 6 6 Nomination Advisory Committee Data Number of independent outside directors 2 3 3 Average attendance rate (%) 100.0 100.0 95.7 Note: The Company transitioned to a company with an Audit and Supervisory Committee at the conclusion of the 8th General Meeting of Shareholders held on June 27, 2018. As a result, the Company eliminated the Board of Corporate Auditors and established the Audit and Supervisory Committee. Environmental The environmental information covers a total of 77 business sites at 41 companies in the JXTG Nippon Oil & Energy Group, the JX Nippon Oil & Gas Exploration Group, the JX Nippon Mining & Metals Group and other operating companies (JXTG Nippon Oil & Energy Group: 48 business sites at 26 companies; JX Nippon Oil & Gas Exploration Group: 3 business sites at 1 company; JX Nippon Mining & Metals Group: 26 business sites at 13 companies; other operating companies: 1 company), however, the companies covered vary depending on the information. The companies covered are indicated in the Scope of data column. The environmental information indicated with for fiscal 2018 has been assured by an independent practitioner. Some figures from past fiscal years have been revised due to revisions in the scope of data, etc. Energy Consumption (crude oil equivalent) Unit FY2016 FY2017 FY2018 Scope of data Energy consumption (crude oil equivalent) Million kL 11.74 11.75 11.32 JXTG Nippon Oil & Energy, JX Nippon Oil & Gas Exploration, Fuel consumption (crude oil equivalent) Million kL 10.53 10.49 10.13 JX Nippon Mining & Metals, Electricity consumption Million kWh 4,630 4,569 4,216 NIPPO CORPORATION Note: Figures for JXTG Nippon Oil & Energy Group data include energy consumption from distribution activities. Energy Consumption Intensity Unit FY2016 FY2017 FY2018 Scope of data Energy consumption intensity for oil Oil equivalent (kL)/Crude distillation unit Petroleum refining business of the JXTG 8.28 8.18 8.40 refining equivalent throughput (thousand kL) Nippon Oil & Energy Group Energy consumption intensity for Smelting and refining business sites of the GJ of heat/ton of refined copper produced 13.6 13.6 13.3 smelting and refining JX Nippon Mining & Metals Group CO2 emissions intensity for smelting Smelting and refining business sites of the t-CO2/ton of refined copper produced 0.86 0.86 0.82 and refining JX Nippon Mining & Metals Group 77 JXTG REPORT ESG DATA BOOK 2019 JXTG REPORT ESG DATA BOOK 2019 78 Comparative Table with Comparative Table with Governance Report Environmental Report Social Report Data GRI Standards Governance Report Environmental Report Social Report Data GRI Standards GHG Emissions Social Unit FY2016 FY2017 FY2018 Scope of data CO2 emissions Million tons 29.47 29.47 28.74 (1) Scope 1 Social information covers the JXTG Nippon Oil & Energy Group, the JX Nippon Oil & Gas Exploration Group, the JX Nippon Million tons 26.29 26.25 24.42 (2) Scope 2 Mining & Metals Group and other operating companies, however, the companies covered vary depending on the information. The Million tons 3.12 3.12 3.10 (3) Non-energy-derived CO2 Million tons 0.07 0.11 1.21 companies covered are indicated in the Scope of data column. GHG emissions other than CO2 tons 146,795 153,727 147,664 JXTG Nippon Oil & Energy, The social information indicated with for fiscal 2018 has been assured by an independent practitioner. (1) CH4 tons 38,592 41,480 42,259 JX Nippon Oil & Gas Exploration, Some figures from past fiscal years have been revised. (2) N20 tons 108,203 111,725 104,782 JX Nippon Mining & Metals, (3) HFCs tons 0 308 411 NIPPO CORPORATION Employees (4) PFCs tons 0 0 0 (5) SF6 tons 0 214 212 Item Total JXTG Holdings JXTG Nippon JX Nippon JX Nippon Oil & Energy Oil & Gas Exploration Mining & Metals (6) NF3 tons 0 0 0 Total GHG emissions Million tons 29.62 29.63 28.89 Full time 9,901 76 7,863 319 1,643 Notes: CO2 emissions include CO2 equivalent emissions from energy consumption (electricity, fuel, etc.) as well as greenhouse gases emitted mainly in oil and gas production. Fixed term 185 0 49 17 119 Figures for JXTG Nippon Oil & Energy Group data include emissions from distribution activities. Non-fixed term (regular employees) 9,716 76 7,814 302 1,524 Non-energy-derived CO2 emissions for the JXTG Nippon Oil & Energy Group were included in Scope 1 emissions in previous fiscal years, but were included in a different category beginning in fiscal 2018. Other than full time Male 29 0 1 0 28 The scope of CO2 emissions data was expanded in fiscal 2018. This data now includes Nippo Corporation. Fixed term 28 0 1 0 27 Non-fixed term 1 0 0 0 1 Air Pollution Load Number of Employees (by employment status) Subtotal 9,930 76 7,864 319 1,671 Unit FY2016 FY2017 FY2018 Scope of data Full time 1,205 34 933 50 188 (1) SOx tons 16,049 13,398 13,208 Fixed term 26 1 7 3 15 JXTG Nippon Oil & Energy, JX Nippon Oil & Gas Exploration, (2) NOx tons 15,568 15,449 16,878 Non-fixed term (regular employees) 1,179 33 926 47 173 JX Nippon Mining & Metals, NIPPO CORPORATION (3) Soot tons 936 1,062 1,192 Female Other than full time 16 0 0 2 14 (4) VOC tons 17,819 15,872 14,825 JXTG Nippon Oil & Energy, JX Nippon Oil & Gas Exploration Notes: SOx and NOx figures for Nippo Corporation have been estimated based on its 50 main plants. The scope of data for the JX Nippon Mining & Metals Group includes only Fixed term 6 0 0 2 4 business sites that are subject to legal requirements. Non-fixed term 10 0 0 0 10 VOC figures from past fiscal years have been revised due to expansion of the scope of data in fiscal 2017. Subtotal 1,221 34 933 52 202 Use of Water Resources Ratio of female employees 10.9% 30.9% 10.6% 14.0% 10.8% Temporary staff 563 2 479 0 82 Unit FY2016 FY2017 FY2018 Scope of data Male 324 0 282 0 42 Water used (1) + (2) + (3) + (4) + (5) Million tons 1,419.63 1,847.41 1,735.39 Female 239 2 197 0 40 (1) Service water (municipal potable water) Million tons 4.61 4.94 4.95 (2) Service water (surface water) Million tons 171.70 175.78 173.60 Ratio of temporary staff 4.8% 1.8% 5.2% 0.0% 4.2% (3) Harvested rainwater Million tons 0.11 0.07 0.06 JXTG Nippon Oil & Energy, Total 11,714 112 9,276 371 1,955 JX Nippon Oil & Gas Exploration, (4) Groundwater Million tons 21.09 18.57 19.02 Foreign nationals 58 0 37 9 12 JX Nippon Mining & Metals, (5) Seawater Million tons 1,222.11 1,648.04 1,537.77 NIPPO CORPORATION Male 35 0 23 6 6 Water discharged Million tons 1,340.70 1,813.94 1,825.88 Female 23 0 14 3 6 (1) River discharge Million tons − 15.48 15.64 Number of locally employed staff at overseas sites 4,070 0 1,056 413 2,601 (2) Sea discharge Million tons − 1,798.46 1,810.24 Notes: Overseas sites (Malaysia and Vietnam) are not included in figures for the JX Nippon Oil & Gas Exploration Group. Managerial staff (regular employees) 2,797 60 2,269 143 325 The volume of water used and water discharged by the JX Nippon Mining & Metals Group is the product of volume multiplied by density (seawater:1.024 t/m³; fresh water: 1.000 t/m³). Male 2,721 56 2,206 139 320 Data for water discharged from past fiscal years has been revised due to expansion of the scope of data in fiscal 2017. Female 76 4 63 4 5 Number of Employees (by category), Average Age and Average Years of Service The scope of water-related data was expanded in fiscal 2018. This data now includes Nippo Corporation. Ratio of female managerial staff 2.7% 6.7% 2.8% 2.8% 1.5% Water Pollution Load Up to 29 years old 0 0 0 0 0 Age 30–49 years old 1,154 39 926 56 133 Unit FY2016 FY2017 FY2018 Scope of data 50 years old and over 1,643 21 1,343 87 192 COD Tons 1,477 1,598 1,493 JXTG Nippon Oil & Energy, JX Nippon Oil & Gas Exploration, JX Nippon Mining & Metals Average age 50.8 47.6 51.0 51.3 50.3 Release and Transfer of Chemical Substances (PRTR) Average years of service 25.6 22.5 26.2 25.4 21.9 Non-managerial staff (regular employees) 8,098 49 6,471 206 1,372 Unit FY2016 FY2017 FY2018 Scope of data Male 6,995 20 5,608 163 1,204 (1) Released tons 1,750 1,916 1,828 JXTG Nippon Oil & Energy, JX Nippon Oil & Gas Exploration, Female 1,103 29 863 43 168 (2) Transferred tons 195 408 384 JX Nippon Mining & Metals, NIPPO CORPORATION Up to 29 years old 2,479 8 2,059 47 365 Notes: Overseas sites (Malaysia and Vietnam) are not included in figures for the JX Nippon Oil & Gas Exploration Group. The scope for the JX Nippon Mining & Metals Group includes only companies with business sites required to give notification under the PRTR Law. Overseas offices and Age 30–49 years old 3,918 34 2,962 146 776 plants are not included. 50 years old and over 1,701 7 1,450 13 231 Average age 39.3 38.0 39.6 35.3 38.8 Waste Average years of service 16.9 11.7 17.7 9.6 14.1 Unit FY2016 FY2017 FY2018 Scope of data Total 10,895 109 8,740 349 1,697 Total waste tons 1,742,239 1,535,182 1,648,547 Average age (regular employees) 42.3 43.3 42.5 41.9 41.0 JXTG Nippon Oil & Energy, JX Nippon Oil & Gas Exploration, Landfill disposal volume tons 11,765 9,304 14,035 Average age – male 42.3 44.0 42.4 42.0 41.4 JX Nippon Mining & Metals, NIPPO CORPORATION Waste-to-landfill ratio % 0.7 0.6 0.9 Average age – female 42.4 41.6 43.3 41.0 37.6 Environmental Accidents Average years of service (regular employees) 19.1 17.5 19.9 16.0 15.6 Average years of service – male 19.2 18.8 20.0 16.4 16.1 Number of environmental accidents FY2018 0 Monetary penalties FY2018 Nil Average years of service – female 17.5 14.5 19.6 13.8 10.8 79 JXTG REPORT ESG DATA BOOK 2019 JXTG REPORT ESG DATA BOOK 2019 80 Comparative Table with Comparative Table with Governance Report Environmental Report Social Report Data GRI Standards Governance Report Environmental Report Social Report Data GRI Standards Training Programs Implemented in Fiscal 2018 Item Total JXTG Holdings JXTG Nippon JX Nippon JX Nippon Oil & Energy Oil & Gas Exploration Mining & Metals Total training hours Training hours per employee Up to 29 years old 367 0 285 8 74 JXTG Holdings 2,017 18.34 Percentage of regular employees as of March 2019 3.4% 0.0% 3.3% 2.3% 4.4% Number of New Hires (incl. mid-career hires) (regular employees) 30–49 years old 127 0 55 5 67 JXTG Nippon Oil & Energy 81,183 9.23 Percentage of regular employees as of March 2019 1.2% 0.0% 0.6% 1.4% 3.9% Male JX Nippon Oil & Gas Exploration 8,338 22.47 50 years old and over 11 0 7 0 4 Percentage of regular employees as of March 2019 0.1% 0.0% 0.1% 0.0% 0.2% JX Nippon Mining & Metals 29,424 15.71 Subtotal 505 0 347 13 145 Total 120,962 10.85 Percentage of regular employees as of March 2019 4.6% 0.0% 4.0% 3.7% 8.5% Note: Number of hours of internal group training and external training organized by the human resources departUp to 29 years old 52 0 35 2 15 ments of JXTG Holdings and the Group s core operating companies, aggregated for each employer. Percentage of regular employees as of March 2019 0.5% 0.0% 0.4% 0.6% 0.9% 30–49 years old 21 0 13 1 7 Percentage of regular employees as of March 2019 0.2% 0.0% 0.1% 0.3% 0.4% Occupational Injuries Female 50 years old and over 5 0 4 0 1 FY2016 FY2017 FY2018 Scope of data Percentage of regular employees as of March 2019 0.0% 0.0% 0.0% 0.0% 0.1% Subtotal 16 9 20 Subtotal 78 0 52 3 23 Number of occupational injuries Percentage of regular employees as of March 2019 0.7% 0.0% 0.6% 0.9% 1.4% JXTG Group Fatalities 0 0 0 Total 583 0 399 16 168 Lost work time 16 9 20 Percentage of regular employees as of March 2019 5.4% 0.0% 4.6% 4.6% 9.9% JXTG Nippon Oil & Energy, Subtotal 19 27 20 JX Nippon Oil & Gas Exploration, Up to 29 years old 74 0 64 2 8 JX Nippon Mining & Metals Contractors Percentage of regular employees as of March 2019 0.7% 0.0% 0.7% 0.6% 0.5% (partner companies, etc.) Fatalities 1 1 0 30–49 years old 64 0 49 1 14 Lost work time 18 26 20 Percentage of regular employees as of March 2019 0.6% 0.0% 0.6% 0.3% 0.8% Male 50 years old and over 151 0 137 1 13 Total 35 36 40 Employee Turnover (regular employees) Percentage of regular employees as of March 2019 1.4% 0.0% 1.6% 0.3% 0.8% Occupational injury frequency rate 0.40 0.29 0.39 Subtotal 289 0 250 4 35 15 JXTG Nippon Oil & Energy Group refineries and plants, Percentage of regular employees as of March 2019 2.7% 0.0% 2.9% 1.1% 2.1% Occupational injury severity rate 0.01 0.01 0.00 5 JX Nippon Oil & Gas Exploration business sites, and 6 JX Nippon Mining & Metals business sites Up to 29 years old 12 0 9 0 3 Lost work days due to occupational injuries 197 251 70 Percentage of regular employees as of March 2019 0.1% 0.0% 0.1% 0.0% 0.2% Notes: Number of contractors in Number of occupational injuries is for reference. 30–49 years old 19 0 14 1 4 Scope of data for occupational injury frequency rate, occupational injury severity rate, and lost work days due to occupational injuries: Employees directly employed by 15 JXTG Nippon Oil & Energy Group refineries and plants, 5 JX Nippon Oil & Gas Exploration business sites (Miri, Vietnam, Kuala Lumpur, Doha1, and Nakajo) and 6 JX Nippon Percentage of regular employees as of March 2019 0.2% 0.0% 0.2% 0.3% 0.2% Female Mining & Metals business sites (head office, Hitachi, Isohara, Kurami, Turuga, and Saganoseki). 50 years old and over 13 0 12 0 1 1 The Doha business site is included in data up to fiscal 2017, when it ceased operations. Percentage of regular employees as of March 2019 0.1% 0.0% 0.1% 0.0% 0.1% Subtotal 44 0 35 1 8 Percentage of regular employees as of March 2019 0.4% 0.0% 0.4% 0.3% 0.5% FY2016 FY2017 FY2018 Scope of data Total 333 0 285 5 43 Total Recordable Incident Rate (TRIR) 1.11 0.81 1.25 JXTG Holdings, JXTG Nippon Oil & Energy head office and Percentage of regular employees as of March 2019 3.1% 0.0% 3.3% 1.4% 2.5% 15 refineries and plants, JX Nippon Oil & Gas Exploration head office and 5 business sites, Lost Time Injury Rate (LTIR) 0.28 0.20 0.39 and JX Nippon Mining & Metals head office and 5 business sites Employment rate of persons with disabilities 2.4% − 2.4% 2.8% 2.3% Number of employees re-employed after retirement 589 1 516 15 57 Notes: TRIR: Number of non-lost-time occupational injuries, lost-time occupational injuries and fatalities per million hours LTIR: Number of lost-time occupational injuries and fatalities per million hours Number of days of paid annual leave granted 22.0 22.7 22.5 22.0 20.2 Paid annual Scope of data for TRIR and LTIR: Employees directly employed by JXTG Holdings, JXTG Nippon Oil & Energy Group head office and its 15 refineries and plants, JX Nippon Number of days of paid annual leave taken 19.8 18.0 21.2 16.6 15.4 Oil & Gas Exploration head office and its 5 business sites (Miri, Vietnam, Kuala Lumpur, Doha1, and Nakajo) and JX Nippon Mining & Metals head office and its 5 business leave sites (Hitachi, Isohara, Kurami, Tsuruga, and Saganoseki). Usage rate of paid annual leave 90.0% 79.3% 94.2% 75.5% 75.9% 1 The Doha business site is included in data up to fiscal 2017, when it ceased operations. Number of employees taking family care leave 5 0 4 0 1 Number of employees taking childcare leave 220 6 197 9 8 Childbirth/childcare Male employees 171 2 157 9 3 JXTG Group Safety Education Center Training Participation Number of employees returning to work after giving birth or taking childcare leave 100.0% 100.0% 100.0% 100.0% 100.0% FY2016 FY2017 FY2018 Scope of data Percentage still employed 12 months after returning to 98.3% 100.0% 98.7% 100.0% 93.8% JXTG Holdings, JXTG Nippon Oil & Energy, JX Nippon Oil & Gas Exploration, work Number of participants 1,698 1,503 1,538 JX Nippon Mining & Metals, affiliated Group companies, partner companies, etc. Labor Number of members 9,328 No labor unions 7,176 No labor unions 2,152 unions Membership rate 99.5% No labor unions 99.7% No labor unions 98.9% Participation rate for regular health screenings 100.0% 100.0% 100.0% 100.0% 100.0% Note: Employees of JXTG Holdings are seconded from operating companies. The number of new hires and employee turnover are accounted for at their companies of origin. 81 JXTG REPORT ESG DATA BOOK 2019 JXTG REPORT ESG DATA BOOK 2019 82 Comparative Table with Comparative Table with Governance Report Environmental Report Social Report Data GRI Standards Governance Report Environmental Report Social Report Data GRI Standards Main Sites and Areas of Core Operating Company Groups With many business operation sites and areas in Japan and overseas, the JXTG Group is a global business, working to become one of Asia s leading integrated energy, resources, and materials company groups. Note: Multiple sites for a single company group located in the same city share one mark. Examples: Shanghai One mark for JXTG Nippon Oil & Energy sites, one mark for JX Nippon Mining & Metals Group sites ● JXTG Nippon Oil & Energy Group Bangkok One mark for JX Nippon Oil & Energy sites, one mark for JX Nippon Mining & ◆ JX Nippon Oil & Gas Exploration Group Metals Group sites ■ JX Nippon Mining & Metals Group 83 JXTG REPORT ESG DATA BOOK 2019 JXTG REPORT ESG DATA BOOK 2019 84 Comparative Table with Comparative Table with Governance Report Environmental Report Social Report Data GRI Standards Governance Report Environmental Report Social Report Data GRI Standards Independent Practitioner s Assurance Report Comparative Table with GRI Standards 1. Organizational Profile Where to find Page(s) 102-1 Name of the organization The JXTG Group s Businesses 2 102-2 Activities, brands, products, and services The JXTG Group s Businesses 2 102-3 Location of headquarters Editorial Policy 1 The JXTG Group s Businesses 2 102-4 Location of operations Main Sites and Areas of Core Operating Company Groups 83-84 The JXTG Group s Businesses 2 102-5 Ownership and legal form JXTG Integrated Report The JXTG Group s Businesses 2 102-6 Markets served Main Sites and Areas of Core Operating Company Groups 83-84 The JXTG Group s Businesses 2 102-7 Scale of the organization JXTG Integrated Report 102-8 Information on employees and other workers Data 80-82 JXTG Integrated Report (Introduction) 102-9 Supply chain JXTG Integrated Report 102-10 Significant changes to the organization and its supply chain − Risk Management 19-21 102-11 Precautionary Principle or approach Compliance 22-25 Principal Declarations and Initiatives the JXTG Group Participates in and Supports 11 102-12 External initiatives Communication with Industry Organizations 11 Principal Declarations and Initiatives the JXTG Group Participates in and Supports 11 102-13 Membership of associations Communication with Industry Organizations 11 2. Strategy Where to find Page(s) 102-14 Statement from senior decision-maker JXTG Integrated Report JXTG Integrated Report 102-15 Key impacts, risks, and opportunities Risk Management 19-21 3. Ethics and Integrity Where to find Page(s) JXTG Group Philosophy 3 102-16 Values, principles, standards, and norms of behavior JXTG Group Code of Conduct 4 102-17 Mechanisms for advice and concerns about ethics Compliance 22-25 4. Governance Where to find Page(s) 102-18 Governance Structure Corporate Governance Framework 13 102-19 Delegating authority CSR Promotion Structure 7-8 Executive-level responsibility for economic, environmental, and social 102-20 CSR Promotion Structure 7-8 topics 102-21 Consulting stakeholders on economic, environmental, and social topics − 102-22 Composition of the highest governance body and its committees Corporate Governance Framework 13 102-23 Chair of the highest governance body Corporate Governance Framework 13 JXTG Integrated Report 102-24 Nominating and selecting the highest governance body Corporate Governance Report JXTG Integrated Report 102-25 Conflicts of interest Corporate Governance Report Role of highest governance body in setting purpose, values, and 102-26 CSR Promotion Structure 7-8 strategy 102-27 Collective knowledge of highest governance body CSR Promotion Structure 7-8 102-28 Evaluating the highest governance body s performance CSR Promotion Structure 7-8 102-29 Identifying and managing economic, environmental, and social impacts Risk Management 19-21 102-30 Effectiveness of risk management processes Risk Management 19-21 102-31 Review of economic, environmental, and social topics CSR Promotion Structure 7-8 102-32 Highest governance body s role in sustainability reporting CSR Promotion Structure 7 102-33 Communicating critical concerns Compliance 22-25 102-34 Nature and total number of critical concerns Compliance 22-25 JXTG Integrated Report 102-35 Remuneration policies Corporate Governance Report Determination of Director Compensation 18 85 JXTG REPORT ESG DATA BOOK 2019 JXTG REPORT ESG DATA BOOK 2019 86 Comparative Table with Comparative Table with Governance Report Environmental Report Social Report Data GRI Standards Governance Report Environmental Report Social Report Data GRI Standards JXTG Integrated Report ENVIRONMENTAL 102-36 Process for determining remuneration Corporate Governance Report GRI 301: Materials Where to find Page(s) 102-37 Stakeholders involvement in remuneration − 301-1 Materials used by weight or volume Overview of the JXTG Group s Environmental Impact 29 102-38 Annual total compensation ratio − 301-2 Recycled input materials used Initiatives for the Effective Use of Resources 35 102-39 Percentage increase in annual total compensation ratio − 301-3 Reclaimed products and their packaging materials − 5. Stakeholder Engagement Where to find Page(s) GRI 302: Energy Where to find Page(s) 102-40 List of stakeholder groups Stakeholder Engagement 10 Overview of the JXTG Group s Environmental Impact 29 302-1 Energy consumption within the organization 102-41 Collective bargaining agreements − Data 78 102-42 Identifying and selecting stakeholders Stakeholder Engagement 10 302-2 Energy consumption outside of the organization − 102-43 Approach to stakeholder engagement Stakeholder Engagement 10 Initiatives to Prevent Global Warming 30 302-3 Energy intensity 102-44 Key topics and concerns raised Stakeholder Engagement (Major Initiatives) 10 Data 78 6. Reporting Practice Where to find Page(s) Data 78 102-45 Entities included in the consolidated financial statements Editorial Policy 1 302-4 Reduction of energy consumption Energy Conservation 30 102-46 Defining report content and topic Boundaries CSR Management 5 302-5 Reductions in energy requirements of products and services − 102-47 List of material topics CSR Management 5-6 GRI 303: Water Where to find Page(s) 102-48 Restatements of information Data 77-82 303-1 Water withdrawal by source Effective Utilization of Water Resources and Reducing the Release of Water Pollutants 39-40 102-49 Changes in reporting Data 77-82 303-2 Water sources significantly affected by withdrawal of water Effective Utilization of Water Resources and Reducing the Release of Water Pollutants 39-40 102-50 Reporting period Editorial Policy 1 303-3 Water recycled and reused Effective Utilization of Water Resources and Reducing the Release of Water Pollutants 39-40 102-51 Date of most recent report Editorial Policy 1 GRI 304: Biodiversity Where to find Page(s) 102-52 Reporting cycle Editorial Policy 1 Operational sites owned, leased, managed in, or adjacent to, protected 304-1 Initiatives for Biodiversity 41-43 102-53 Contact point for questions regarding the report Editorial Policy 1 areas and areas of high biodiversity value outside protected areas 102-54 Claims of reporting in accordance with the GRI Standards Comparative Table with GRI Standards 86-90 304-2 Significant impacts of activities, products, and services on biodiversity Initiatives for Biodiversity 41-43 102-55 GRI content Index Comparative Table with GRI Standards 86-90 304-3 Habitats protected or restored Initiatives for Biodiversity 41-43 IUCN Red List species and national conservation list species with 102-56 External assurance Independent Practitioner s Assurance Report 85 304-4 − habitats in areas affected by operations GRI 305: Emissions Where to find Page(s) GRI 103: Management Approach Where to find Page(s) Overview of the JXTG Group s Environmental Impact 29 103-1 Explanation of the material topic and its Boundary The Group s Top CSR Priorities 5-6 305-1 Direct greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions (Scope 1) Initiatives to Prevent Global Warming 30-31 103-2 The management approach and its components CSR Promotion Structure 7-8 Data 79 103-3 Evaluation of the management approach CSR Promotion Structure 7-8 Overview of the JXTG Group s Environmental Impact 29 305-2 Energy indirect greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions (Scope 2) Initiatives to Prevent Global Warming 30-31 ECONOMIC Data 79 GRI 201: Economic Performance Where to find Page(s) Overview of the JXTG Group s Environmental Impact 29 201-1 Direct economic value generated and distributed − 305-3 Other indirect greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions (Scope 3) Initiatives to Prevent Global Warming 30-31 Risk Management 21 Initiatives for Operations Outside of Production Sites 31 201-2 Financial implications and other risks and opportunities due to climate Environmental Management (Basic Approach) 27 305-4 Greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions intensity − change Initiatives to Prevent Global Warming 30-31 305-5 Reduction of GHG emissions Initiatives to Prevent Global Warming 30-33 201-3 Defined benefit plan obligations and other retirement plans − 305-6 Emissions of ozone-depleting substances (ODS) − 201-4 Financial assistance received from government − Nitrogen oxides (NOx), sulfur oxides (SOx), and other significant air Initiatives to Reduce the Release of Air Pollutants 38 305-7 emissions Data 79 GRI 202: Market Presence Where to find Page(s) Ratios of standard entry level wage by gender compared to local GRI 306: Effluents and Waste Where to find Page(s) 202-1 − minimum wage 306-1 Water discharge by quality and destination Effective Utilization of Water Resources and Reducing the Release of Water Pollutants 40 202-2 Proportion of senior management hired from the local community − Initiatives for Promoting the 3Rs (Reduce, Reuse, Recycle) and Major Initiatives to 306-2 Waste by type and disposal method 34-35 GRI 203: Indirect Economic Impacts Where to find Page(s) Reduce Waste 203-1 Infrastructure investments and services supported Social Contribution 71-76 306-3 Significant spills − 203-2 Significant indirect economic impacts Social Contribution 71-76 306-4 Transport of hazardous waste − GRI 204: Procurement Practices Where to find Page(s) 306-5 Water bodies affected by water discharges and/or runoff − 204-1 Proportion of spending on local suppliers − GRI 307: Environmental Compliance Where to find Page(s) GRI 205: Anti-Corruption Where to find Page(s) Data 79 307-1 Non-compliance with environmental laws and regulations 205-1 Operations assessed for risks related to corruption Compliance 22-25 Environmental Accidents 29 Communication and training on anti-corruption policies and GRI 308: Supplier Environmental Assessment Where to find Page(s) 205-2 Compliance 22-25 procedures 308-1 New suppliers that were screened using environmental criteria Supply Chain Management 68-70 205-3 Confirmed incidents of corruption and actions taken Compliance 22-25 Initiatives to Prevent Global Warming 30-33 308-2 Negative environmental impacts in the supply chain and actions taken GRI 206: Anti-Competitive Behavior Where to find Page(s) Supply Chain Management 68-70 Legal actions for anti-competitive behavior, anti-trust, and monopoly 206-1 Compliance 22-25 practices 87 JXTG REPORT ESG DATA BOOK 2019 JXTG REPORT ESG DATA BOOK 2019 88 Comparative Table with Comparative Table with Governance Report Environmental Report Social Report Data GRI Standards Governance Report Environmental Report Social Report Data GRI Standards SOCIAL 413-2 Operations with significant actual and potential negative impacts on − local communities GRI 401: Employment Where to find Page(s) GRI 414: Supplier Social Assessment Where to find Page(s) 401-1 New employee hires and employee turnover Data 81 414-1 New suppliers that were screened using social criteria − Benefits provided to full-time employees that are not provided to 401-2 − 414-2 Negative social impacts in the supply chain and actions taken Supply Chain Management 68-70 temporary or part-time employees GRI 415: Public Policy Where to find Page(s) Healthy Work Environment 63-64 401-3 Parental leave 415-1 Political contributions − Data 81 GRI 416: Customer Health and Safety Where to find Page(s) GRI 402: Labor/Management Relations Where to find Page(s) Assessment of the health and safety impacts of product and service 402-1 Minimum notice periods regarding operational changes − 416-1 categories Quality (Major Initiatives) 65-67 GRI 403: Occupational Health and Safety Where to find Page(s) Incidents of non-compliance concerning the health and safety impacts 416-2 − Workers representation in formal joint management–worker health and of products and services 403-1 Data 81 safety committees GRI 417: Marketing and Labeling Where to find Page(s) Types of injury and rates of injury, occupational diseases, lost days, Results of Major Initiatives for Ensuring Safety 46-47 417-1 Requirements for product and service information and labeling − 403-2 and absenteeism, and number of work-related fatalities Data 82 Incidents of non-compliance concerning product and service 417-2 Compliance 22-25 Workers with high incidence or high risk of diseases related to their Results of Major Initiatives for Ensuring Safety 46-47 information and labeling 403-3 occupation Health 59-60 417-3 Incidents of non-compliance concerning marketing communications − Results of Major Initiatives for Ensuring Safety 46-47 GRI 418: Customer Privacy Where to find Page(s) Health and safety topics covered in formal agreements with trade 403-4 unions Health 59-60 Substantiated complaints concerning breaches of customer privacy 418-1 Compliance 22-25 and losses of customer data GRI 404: Training and Education Where to find Page(s) GRI 419: Socioeconomic Compliance Where to find Page(s) Human Resource Development 56 404-1 Average hours of training per year per employee Non-compliance with laws and regulations in the social and economic Data 82 419-1 Compliance 22-25 area Programs for upgrading employee skills and transition assistance Human Resource Development 55-58 404-2 programs Healthy Work Environment 62 Percentage of employees receiving regular performance and career 404-3 − development reviews GRI 405: Diversity and Equal Opportunity Where to find Page(s) Diversity and Inclusion 62-63 405-1 Diversity of governance bodies and employees Data 80-81 405-2 Ratio of basic salary and remuneration of women to men − GRI 406: Non-Discrimination Where to find Page(s) Compliance 22-25 406-1 Incidents of discrimination and corrective actions taken Human Rights 50-54 Healthy Work Environment 63 GRI 407: Freedom of Association and Collective Bargaining Where to find Page(s) Operations and suppliers in which the right to freedom of association 407-1 − and collective bargaining may be at risk GRI 408: Child Labor Where to find Page(s) Supply Chain Management 68-70 408-1 Operations and suppliers at significant risk for incidents of child labor Human Rights 50-54 GRI 409: Forced and Compulsory Labor Where to find Page(s) Operations and suppliers at significant risk for incidents of forced or Supply Chain Management 68-70 409-1 compulsory labor Human Rights 50-54 GRI 410: Security Practices Where to find Page(s) 410-1 Security personnel trained in human rights policies or procedures − GRI 411: Indigenous Rights Where to find Page(s) 411-1 Incidents of violations involving rights of indigenous peoples Human Rights 50-54 GRI 412: Human Rights Assessment Where to find Page(s) Initiatives for Human Rights Due Diligence 53 Operations that have been subject to human rights reviews or impact 412-1 Mine Development and Respecting the Human Rights of Local Residents 52 assessments Confronting the Issue of Conflict Minerals (Supply Chain Management) 70 412-2 Employee training on human rights policies or procedures Human Rights 50-54 Significant investment agreements and contracts that include human 412-3 − rights clauses or that underwent human rights screening GRI 413: Local Communities Where to find Page(s) Operations with local community engagement, impact assessments, Social Contribution 71-76 413-1 and development programs Addressing Customer Needs 67 89 JXTG REPORT ESG DATA BOOK 2019 JXTG REPORT ESG DATA BOOK 2019 90
