CSR Report 2019 Contents CEO letter 03 Our business 04 Governance 05 Commitments 07 Human rights 09 CSR risks 11 CSR strategy 12 Environmental Footprint 13 Support Marine environment 14 Newbuildings and ship recycling 15 Responsible neighbour 16 Reducing sulphur 18 Improve Air Quality 19 Decarbonisation 21 About this report Logistics 23 This report constitutes DFDS’ Communication on Progress to the Caring employer 24 UN Global Compact. It covers the DFDS Group’s CSR approach and Well-being for all employees 25 activities for the financial year 1 January to 31 December 2019. Health and safety 27 The report is an integral part of the management review of DFDS’ Inclusive workplace 28 Annual Report 2019 and by publishing this document, we fulfil Providing opportunities to do good 31 the requirements of Sections 99a and 99b of the Danish Financial Statements Act. ESG Key figures 33 Definition of terms 34 www.dfds.com CSR Report 2019 2 CSR at DFDS 2019 was the year when we increased emissions reduction by 2030 set by the International Maritime engagement and efforts in integrating CSR Organization (IMO). with our business strategy, while at the same To be a sustainable company, we must also be a diverse company. time world attention on the growing urgency Having an inclusive workplace is important to us. We have set a of tackling climate change intensified. gender diversity target of 30% by 2023 to make sure we maintain our focus on increasing diversity. Across civil society, politics and many industries, awareness CSR is now built into all our future plans. We have integrated of sustainability issues has increased significantly, and the sustainability into the new ‘Win23’ strategy, which we initiated transport industry is no exception. In both ferryand land-based this year. Through four strategic pillars, we intend to grow solutions transportation, investors and stakeholders are calling on us to for selected industries; digitise services to accelerate growth; document that we are doing business sustainably. Our industry develop and expand the network, and create more value for pashas a large carbon impact which we need to address responsibly. sengers. Sustainability is the thread that joins our CSR and Win23 However, we also have a huge potential to make a significant strategies, and supports and enables Win23’s four strategic pillars. difference when it comes to reducing the environmental impact of our activities. It is therefore critically important that we conCollaborating to cut emissions tinue actively to consider how we can cut our CO2 emissions. Working together with stakeholders is essential to enable us to deliver on our own targets, and for the industry to achieve the Getting to Zero Coalition and ZEEDS (Zero Emission Energy Strengthening our efforts in line with our CSR strategy 50% absolute reduction in GHG emissions by 2050 set by the Distribution at Sea). Looking ahead, we are excited about growing In 2019, the new CSR strategy we presented in 2018 came into IMO. Our approach is to work with partners on immediate soluour sustainability activities, and working together with existing full effect. The strategy’s two cornerstones of reducing our tions to reduce our fleet’s fuel consumption, and also to develop and future partners. ‘Environmental Footprint’ and being a ‘Caring Employer’ link to long-term solutions for future vessels based on new technologies six ambitions and five of the UN’s Sustainable Development and viable alternatives to fossil fuels. I hope you find this report useful and informative. It describes Goals. Collectively, these have driven our work on our CSR our CSR strategy, ambitions and actions, as well as our continactivities even more strongly in 2019. This year, our commitment to finding, testing and scaling substiued mission to do business responsibly across all these areas. tute fuels was highlighted by our investment in biofuel producer It reflects our commitment to our purpose, ‘we move for all to We want to be progressive in cutting greenhouse gas (GHG) MASH Energy. Their CO2 neutral biofuel will be used in ships, and grow’ – and to the principles of the UN Global Compact and the emissions. So this year, we have set our own challenging in 2020, our plan is to work towards testing this in a DFDS vessel. UN Sustainable Development Goals. CO2 emissions targets for the future. Our target is to reduce gCO2 per GT-mile to 12.4 in 2023 and 9.6 in 2030. We aim at In addition to these immediate steps, we joined several industry a 45.1% reduction from the 2008 baseline to 2030, and our partnerships in 2019 which aim to develop long-term solutions Torben Carlsen target is therefore complementary to the target of 40% CO2 for decarbonising the industry. We are proud to have joined the President and CEO of DFDS Group CSR Report 2019 3 Ferry Network Sideport Services Network Trondheim Our business Container Network Ålesund FI Rail Partner Network Lerwick Florø NO Bergen Kotka We move freight and passengers on 23 ferry Haugesund Drammen Oslo Hanko St. Petersburg routes in Europe and we also provide logistics Stavanger Moss Kapellskär Larvik Tallinn Fredrikstad solutions for a wide range of businesses Fort William Aberdeen Brevik ldis Halden ki Kristiansand SE Pa EE Greenock Bellshill Lilla Edet RU Larkhall Gothenburg Ventspils Newcastle LV Ballina IE Belfast ha n Riga m Liepaja h m ag rl Mullagh s Manchester erg icia n ö en Ka bj Fr Co Dublin Liverpool Es ed er pe M al Klaipeda Warrington DK LT Cork Immingham RU erfo UK Vilnius rd Grimsby Kiel Kaliningrad Cuxhaven BY Wat Chesterfield Lübeck Minsk Felixstowe Amsterdam h rg th bu rb ou or Ha ou m n m g Gravesend Rotterdam NL Poznan vo ug te A Pe Br Zeebrugge 8,400 21 8 35 lyn ig Dover ge w nt on ha ve Antwerp Duisburg PL Ne Pa n w irk Genk Ne nk Gh Du lais gne en DE Ca oulo Mer e t B urpp BE s ie employees ferry routes port terminals logistics locations D Do LU Cologne ur ge s Bettembourg Prague – incl. 9 passenger routes UA Paris CZ Ludwigshafen SK Munich FR Wels Salzburg CH AT Ilyichevsk Lyon HU Gyula Tibod SL no Busto Melzo Trieste vi n RO g /A Maia as Novara m ira M Sète Le Boulou Marseille IT PT ES Ambarli Pen Valencia Bari Yalo GR 45% Forwarders and hauliers 39% Manufacturers and retailers 16% Passengers Our ferry routes mainly carry trailers for forwarders The key customers of our logistics and ferry soluThe key passenger groups are people travelling Patras in and hauliers. This is typically fast-moving freight tions are manufacturers of automotives, fresh and their own car, and mini cruise passengers enjoying a Tunis destined for delivery within days. frozen foods, forest & paper products and other maritime experience and the on-board facilities. industrial goods, as well as retailers. TN CSR Report 2019 4 Governance A strategic approach to CSR needs dedicated This year, we also made significant efforts to drive CSR engageStrategic CSR committee work. At DFDS, we have structures and proment at all levels and in all areas of the business. We mapped and integrated every identified CSR activity into a new, single, cesses in place to make sure we stay commitinteractive, digital platform. Every DFDS employee can now find EMT ted, align CSR governance with our ambitions, out about current initiatives; report new local initiatives to the CEO CFO and prioritise the right initiatives in the business. CSR team; and suggest ideas. The Poseidon Principles CTO EVP, Logistics Anchoring ambition in strategy and governance External influence on responsible governance is increasing. The CSR team reports to the Strategic CSR Committee, which In 2019, a group of international banks officially introduced is made up of the Executive Management Team (EMT) and the the ‘Poseidon Principles’. EVP, Ferry EVP, People Operational CSR committee. The four principles provide a framework for integrating climate The Strategic CSR Committee provides the right level of attenconsiderations into lending decisions, which, in turn, promotes tion, responsibility and decision-making power. It meets quarterly international shipping’s decarbonisation. We fully support these Operational CSR Committee and gives a mandate for our CSR direction, ambitions and policies. principles, as they set a level playing field for the industry and There is also continuous dialogue between the CSR team and the positively influence our governance. Procurement Logistics Strategic CSR Committee. Whistleblowing With representatives from Ferry, Logistics and Group functions, To make sure all our people understand and follow our principles Technical Organisation Investor Relations the Strategic CSR Committee deepens integration across our for responsible behaviour, we have a whistleblowing scheme operations. This integration helps us continually assess risks, covering the whole Group. Communication analyse what issues are relevant and adjust our actions as a result. 18 cases were reported in 2019, compared to 16 cases in 2018. The reported cases cover discrimination or harassment; In 2019, a new EMT started to take shape following the appointsubstance abuse; employee relations; accounting and auditing ment of our new CEO. It now includes IT/Digital. With the new matters; theft, and company policy violation. We take all violaCSR Team set-up, commitment to CSR remains strong. Setting an example tions seriously, and we make every effort to investigate reports Head of CSR Director, for the Group, 33% of the EMT are women, meeting our gender and learn from them to prevent future cases. Each incident is Environment & split target of 30/70 across DFDS. discussed at our audit committee. Sustainability CSR Report 2019 5 We take responsibility together It takes the commitment of everyone to fully reach our responsibility goals. Whether at sea or ashore, in offices or in operations, the behaviours and actions of individuals make an important difference. Commitments We want to take responsibility for the societies and environments that we affect. To do so, we are committed to the principles of the UN Global Compact and to engaging with organisations and external stakeholders to develop solutions for the future of the industry. Code of Business Conduct A company’s conduct is reflected in how its employees act and what they do. We are committed to guiding our behaviour and actions through our Code of Business Conduct and our company policies. Company policies In 2019, a team of young DFDS professionals was selected for Our Code of Business Conduct sets an important, general As well as our Code of Business Conduct, we have a number of the UN Global Compact’s Young SDG Innovator Programme. For framework for how to act responsibly as an employee at DFDS. distinct policies in areas such as diversity and inclusion, health the 10-month programme running into 2020, we have committed It is therefore essential to us that our Code of Business Conduct and safety, the environment, and greenhouse gases. resources to work on a sustainability challenge linked to our busishows the values we emphasise, and how we want our employees ness. The aim is to use the SDGs to develop innovative solutions to respond to ethical issues in a sound manner. The Code covers We continuously review our policies and update them to make sure and problem-solving skills, and to nurture an even stronger areas such as diversity, discrimination, respecting others, health they stay relevant. Most recently, we created an environmental understanding of how the SDGs can be used in all our activities. and safety, environmental protection, gifts and entertainment pledge that ensures we assess the climate impact of large in the workplace, competition and pricing, bribery and facilitainvestment decisions. All proposals of €1 million or more must A more responsible supply chain tion payments, and company donations. be accompanied by a document assessing the environmental and We recognise the importance of building a responsible supply climate impact of the investment before they can be approved. chain. Our procurement team strives to minimise the risk of us We reviewed our Code of Business Conduct in 2019 and expect negatively affecting human rights (including labour rights) and to update it accordingly in 2020. With the increasingly important UN Global Compact the environment across our supply chain. In 2015, we joined the link between data and ethics, we plan to include GDPR and ethical We formalised our commitment to sustainability in 2015 when responsible supply chain programme IMPA ACT. IMPA ACT is an data handling in the Code. Through the growth in numbers of our we joined the UN Global Compact. To ensure we do business initiative of the International Marine Purchasing Association. Its aim employees, we also see a need to continuously raise awareness responsibly and meet our key stakeholders’ expectations, our Code is to improve the economic, social and environmental compliance of our Code of Business Conduct to ensure that our people remain of Business Conduct is directly linked to the UN Global Compact’s of its ship purchaser and supplier members. Many shipping compaon board and act according to our values. 10 principles, covering topics such as human rights, diversity and nies share the same suppliers, so a standardised common system discrimination, environmental protection and anticorruption. helps to keep the industry compliant. CSR Report 2019 7 Our Supplier Code of Conduct incorporates the IMPA ACT Supplier As one of two Danish shipping companies, DFDS is part of the We also organised a case competition for maritime students from Code of Conduct, which is based on the UN Global Compact and European Sustainable Shipping Forum (ESSF). This group prothe Technical University of Denmark and Copenhagen Business its Guiding Principles on Business and Human Rights. Our code motes structured dialogue, technical knowledge exchange, coopSchool, and gave a presentation at a ‘Beyond the SDGs’ event, asks all DFDS suppliers to conform to the code and conform to all eration, and coordination between relevant maritime industry which focused on startups at Copenhagen Business School. applicable laws, rules and regulations where our suppliers operate. stakeholders and the EU Commission. We also participate in the They must also have policies and procedures in place to respect IMO’s Marine Environment Protection Committee (MEPC). Through human rights (including labour rights), address significant environour participation in Interferry, we support the interests of the Policies mental impacts and counter corruption. These are similar requireferry industry at EU level, as well as in IMO institutions. • Code of Business Conduct ments to those we follow through our Code of Business Conduct. • Environmental Policy We are also active members of relevant national shipowners’ • GHG Policy In 2019, we strengthened our supplier auditing abilities by organisations, especially those in Denmark and the UK. Collec• Diversity & Inclusion Policy employing extra dedicated staff to work with compliance in tively, shipowners’ voices are represented in ECSA (European • Supplier Code of Conduct our procurement team. Community Shipowners’ Associations). Lastly, we are involved • Health, Safety & Environmental Policy in the Green Ship of the Future and the Trident Alliance. • HR policies and Employee Handbook Supporting transparency We believe in total transparency, especially when it comes to our Supporting entrepreneurship climate impact and the environment. So we voluntarily disclose Collaboration is key to solving the challenges of today and DFDS is part of the following global partnerships, and/or verify environmental, social and governance data to third tomorrow. This is why we maintain close relationships with initiatives and collaborations: party systems, including Carbon Disclosure Project (CDP), Nasdaq entrepreneurs and universities. In exchange for our support, ESG, Sustainalytics and MSCI. they share new ways of thinking and tell us about new Commitments ESG Disclosure developments. Increasing transparency calls for consistent and coherent principles and guidelines on how to disclose climate-related risks. In this We have a long tradition of partnering with start-ups, and suparea, investors and other stakeholders are increasingly interested porting those partners as they grow. In 2019, we partnered with a in companies complying with the Task Force on Climate-Related number of start-ups focusing on a wide range of subjects, including Financial Disclosures (TCFD). In 2020, we intend to investigate web-based sustainability training, autonomous drones to make Partnerships what implementing this framework would entail, and how it would terminals safer, and more efficient and safety improvement apps. benefit us. Our investment in the biofuel producer MASH Energy in 2019 also marked our increased commitment to this successful partnership. Active engagement in maritime industry fora We are actively engaged in influencing the industry through In 2019, we acted as mentors for Maritime Stars – a ninemonth different fora and channels. programme involving five start-ups – and for the Technical University of Denmark’s HardTech Entrepreneurship course-incubator. Getting to Zero 2030 Coalition Ambition statement Climate change is a serious social and economic challenge that requires urgent action involving all sectors of the economy including international shipping. The adoption in 2018 by the IMO of a strategy to reduce greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions from shipping by at least 50 percent by 2050 as compared to 2008 shipping emissions, whilst CSR Report 2019 8 pursuing efforts towards phasing them out, set an ambitious target for the maritime industry that can be expected to ultimately align GHG emissions from shipping with the Paris Agreement. To reduce emissions by at least 50 percent by 2050, zero emission vessels (ZEVs) and by association zero emissions fuels are a requirement, since improvement in energy and operational efficiencies – while critically important – is not Human Rights Providing maritime transport and logistics obligations set out in the UN Guiding Principles on Human Rights. psychological consequences, to ensuring safe operations for services across our network means we are Specifically, businesses must have an ongoing process in place to customers and employees, and in our terminals. It is an incredibly identify, avoid, address, mitigate and attend to the human rights tough situation for both migrants and our people, on board and always in close contact with people. It also impacts with which they are involved. on shore in the terminal. means our activities can have an impact on human rights. It is therefore a key priority for By looking at risks to people and human rights first, companies We work continuously to prevent situations where migrants are more likely to detect potential human rights issues at an board our ships illegally, disrupt or stop our operations, or create us to pay attention to respecting these rights. early stage, before they become severe human rights impacts difficult circumstances for themselves and for our people. In that could represent major risks to the business itself. The 2019, there were an unusually high number of trailer bookings Our entire operation is founded on respect for the rights of every human rights issue areas of key relevance to our business are: made via external agents. We acted on this suspicious trend by employee. We do not tolerate any forms of discrimination or shipbuilding; ship repair and recycling; cargo management and implementing a new procedure in our terminal in Vlaardingen, harassment. We have strict human rights policies in place through relations; supply chain; seafarers and workers; terminals and which aimed to increase the chances of finding potential migrants our Code of Business Conduct and whistle-blower system, both of ports, and search and rescue. before they crossed to the UK. New thermal imaging cameras at which follow principles laid out in the UN Global Compact. terminal gates, combined with extra canine patrols, are helping Shipping has always had a heightened risk of human rights issues, find migrants as they climb into, or hide in or under trailers. Through our activities, different rights and rights-holders can because of its intrinsic health and safety risks and the risk of be particularly at risk, as identified in our CSR risks (see p. 11). discrimination against minority groups. However, respecting Every time a booking is made via a questionable external agent, Examples are workers’ rights to just and favourable working the rights of our land-based people is just as important, and we our people flag the booking internally, to make sure the trailers conditions, and their right not to be discriminated against. Being uphold these rights to an equally high standard. are checked on arrival. In addition to this, we plan to work more closely connected to local communities, our environmental with Lorenz Technology’s intelligent drones, to help us spot impacts may also affect human rights through potential effects Incidents with refugees and migrants people who could be hiding on top of, or between parked trailers on the health of those communities. Our European operations bring us into contact with refugees and about to be loaded onto ships. A drone flyover could prevent migrants from across the world. Despite more stringent border migrants boarding our ships illegally and reduce the risk of our Human rights guidance in shipping controls and stricter controls on passengers travelling to the UK, employees having to deal with difficult or dangerous situations In 2019, Danish Shipping produced human rights guidelines for unfortunately we continue to find migrants in and around our at sea. the shipping industry developed in collaboration with the Danish trailers and equipment in our terminals. Fortunately, however, Institute for Human Rights. As part of Danish Shipping’s CSR through our early detection of attempts to board our ships committee and working group, we fully endorse this guidance. unlawfully, there have been no fatalities connected with this In 2020, we will integrate the framework to increase awareness dangerous and illegal way of crossing. of potential human rights risks in DFDS. Refugees and migrants present a range of challenges. These The aim of the new guidelines is to help members with due range from ethical and human rights dilemmas about how we diligence relating to human rights and to act in line with existing handle situations for the sake of our people and minimise the CSR Report 2019 9 Partnerships for a zero-emission vision The Zero Emission Energy Distribution at Sea initiative (ZEEDS) is a vision of a future where ships bunker at hubs that produce zero-emission fuels in processes powered by wind turbines. DFDS is committed to the vision and the partnership behind it. CSR Report 2019 10 CSR risks Minimising risks is an essential part of our culture, operations and planning. When we identify risks, we analyse our current policies and processes to see if we need to adjust or implement anything to mitigate them. The table below explains our high-level CSR risks and what we do to address them. We have included two new risks that have emerged during the last year. We will monitor these risks particularly closely in 2020. CSR risks Risk type Timeframe Area Mitigating actions EU ETS for Maritime Financial Medium term Ferry Through trade organisations, we are arguing for a fair system that can be policed effectively and provide a level playing field. In the near future, we will also communicate with our stakeholders so they can prepare for the new scenario. Major spill incident at sea Environ­mental Short term External We have qualified employees in relevant functions, combined with advanced technical systems to help A maritime incident could cause a fuel and/or hazardous material spillage, avoid collisions, forecast weather, and provide maritime warnings for vessels in operation. A formal emerdamaging the marine environment. gency committee structure and insurance cover ensures we can fund swift mitigating actions. Poor working conditions People Medium term Group Group-wide management system focuses on root cause analysis, continuous improvement and employee Direct or indirect employees might face working conditions that fall below our well-being. We run a regular Group-wide employee satisfaction survey, followed up by management actions. health, safety and working environment standards. This could negatively affect Group HR has continuous dialogue with trade unions and ensures our employment contracts align with employee satisfaction, employability and our employer brand. DFDS standards, as well as the existing standard conditions for sub-contracting hauliers. Whistle-blower system is in place. Harassment and discrimination People Medium term Group Our Code of Business Conduct and Diversity & Inclusion policy outline what we believe is appropriate Individuals could be subject to discrimination and/or harassment, for example due to behaviour. Our management training and reporting lines include guidance on understanding different race, gender, religion or profession. This could negatively impact their individual rights cultures. We have a whistleblower scheme in place. and wellbeing, and damage our employer brand. Procurement-related corruption Financial Medium term Group We have a procurement policy for major investments in place to centrally review annual supplier Following the 1 January 2020 implementation of the global sulphur restriction of spend above €50,000. We have also implemented an ERP system with one-level-up approvals. max 0.5%, there are early warnings of high black carbon emissions from this new fuel Supplier Code of Conduct, Code of Business Conduct and whistleblower functions are all in place. type. Black carbon may cause local pollution and negatively affect the climate. NEW: Black carbon emission Environ­mental Long term External In trading areas where the 0.5% restriction is in place, our vessels either already have, or are in the The maritime industry is perceived as predominantly masculine, and this & People process of getting, scrubbers fitted. This reduces the need for burning low-sulphur 0.5% fuel. may challenge us in attracting and retaining women for positions at sea and in our technical organisations. NEW: Labour shortage Financial Long term Group Through industry networks, our own Diversity & Inclusion initiatives and strategic efforts to strengthThe maritime industry is perceived as predominantly masculine and this may en talent acquisition, we are focusing on making the maritime industry a more attractive workplace challenge us in attracting and retaining women for positions at sea and in our for women and other underrepresented groups. technical organisations. CSR Report 2019 11 CSR Strategy We formally defined our CSR strategy in 2018. It focuses on two overarching themes that we identified as having the most material impact: ‘Environmental Footprint’ and ‘Caring Environmental Caring Employer’. Each theme is supported by three Footprint Employer ambitions. Ambition Ambition CSR – our guiding star In 2019, we added individual KPIs to the six ambitions, and from 2020 onwards we will focus our efforts on achieving these targets. Support marine Responsible Improve Well-being for Inclusive Opportunities environment neighbour air quality all employees workplace to do good The CSR strategy is a guiding star for how to conduct ethical behaviour The DFDS Way, by focusing on reducing our environmental footprint, and by being a caring employer. UN Sustainable Development Goals UN Sustainable Development Goals Our CSR strategy aligns with the UN Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs). The SDGs act as an external framework that motivates and guides our efforts; they represent global principles for responsible conduct, to which we want to be held accountable. Making the greatest impact We are focusing on five SDGs (3, 5, 13, 14 and 17) that are particularly relevant to our business activities. They were chosen as the areas that are closest to our business and where we have the greatest impact, both positive and negative. The areas where we have a negative impact are where we face the biggest challenges, so it makes sense for us to focus on these. CSR Report 2019 12 Environmental Footprint covers the oceans we sail; the land we drive across; and the air we breathe. Environmental Working independently, as well as in collaborations with partners, we are focusing on SDG 13, 14 and 17 to address our effect on climate and ocean life. Within the framework of the SDGs and our CSR strategy, our Footprint three ambitions are to: Support the marine environment Operating ferries across Europe, it is natural for us to support ocean life, reduce emissions into the sea and support research Ambition and education focusing on the marine environment. Responsible neighbour Seeking to be good neighbours and reduce pollution, waste and Support marine Responsible Improve noise in the communities in which we operate terminals, environment neighbour air quality warehouses and offices is essential. We contribute to a cleaner environment by implementing greener alternatives. Improve air quality Reducing emissions of CO2 from our fleet of ferries and trucks by operating in a more environmentally-friendly and efficient way is a necessity, as is the reduction of emissions of NOx, UN Sustainable Development Goals sulphur and other particles. We support and promote knowledge and products that can help improve air quality. CSR Report 2019 13 Environmental Footprint Support Marine Environment We are committed to protecting ocean life by 2019 activities: • Signing a contract for ballast water treatment systems for our fleet. • Continuing our research partnerships with ORCA, MARINElife Spills Target reducing emissions into the sea and supportand the Continuous Plankton Recorder Survey. ing research and education that focuses on the marine environment. Water is an essential element of our business model. Our day-today activities come at a risk to the marine environment, through oil spills and discharges. So, a commitment to minimising water pollution is a key element of our CSR strategy. 2020 plans: • Invest in ballast water treatment systems on the fleet. • Upgrade sewage plant on Crown Seaways to meet IMO Special Area requirements. • Develop a concept on our Copenhagen-Oslo route that will 0 Performance educate passengers on the marine environment in both an 0000 Zero spills informative and entertaining way (edutainment). Major oil spills have a long-lasting and damaging impact on both the environment and human health. Therefore we cannot accept anything less than a zero spills target. treatment systems in our fleet. By the end of 2019, we had fitted We aim to avoid oil spills by having qualified employees everythree DFDS vessels with the new systems and taken over five 2016 2017 2018 2019 where we need them, combined with advanced technical systems newbuildings with the system as well. The programme to fit the on our operating vessels to avoid collisions, forecast weather, rest of our ferries to comply with the Ballast Water Convention and give maritime warnings. and the MEPC’s schedule is on track. SDGs Policies In 2019, we fully met our target for zero oil spills larger than one Collaborating with researchers • Environmental Policy barrel. We did report two very minor spillages (estimated at 20 litres). Scientific research is crucial to uncovering changes in marine However, because of their size, they are categorised as operational environments; it can also help inform and shape governmental incident and not as oil spills. policies to protect biodiversity. Ballast water treatment to prevent invasive species By collaborating, and giving access to data collection from on A major step in securing maritime biodiversity is to prevent the board DFDS ferries, we enable our research partners to conduct Partnerships spread of potentially invasive aquatic species through ballast a wide range of research at sea. Our projects include monitorwater from ships operating across regions. ing and protecting whales and dolphins with ORCA, long-term measurement of the ecological health of marine plankton with As a result – and to comply with the IMO Convention of 2017 the Continuous Plankton Recorder Survey, and monitoring and for ballast water management – we are installing ballast water researching cetacean and seabirds with MARINElife. CSR Report 2019 14 Newbuildings and ship recycling In order to manage the full life cycle of our The six new ferries, of which four will be equipped with shore power ferries responsibly, they must be built under supply, are significantly more energy-efficient than our existing ferries. However, they are not built to meet our long-term vision for a new safe working conditions and meet strict envigeneration fleet with zero emissions. The future generation of ferries ronmental standards. If we still own a ferry at enabling us to fully decarbonise must be fuelled by renewable energy. the end of its life, we must also have proceCommercially-viable solutions have yet to be found and agreed upon. Read more about our approach to decarbonisation on p. 21. dures in place for its responsible recycling. To make sure our standards for safe working conditions are followed Newbuildings at all times, we have implemented certain safety measures on On 31 January 2019, we took delivery of the first vessel in a construction sites. At Jinling Shipyard, we use Safety Observation series of six mega-freight ferries from Jinling Shipyard in China. Cards which are filled out every time something involves a risk or Two more ferries were delivered during 2019, and the remaining is not deemed safe. We then take measures to mitigate the risks three ferries will be finalised, delivered and deployed in 2020. and stop mistakes that could compromise the health and safety of our people or lead to severe injuries. Since we implemented These vessels will be the largest ever Ro-Ro ferries in our fleet these cards, our shipyard employees report that general awarewith a capacity of 6,700 lane metres (equal to 450 trailers). ness of safety has improved. We also have two Ro-Pax vessels due for delivery in 2021, being built at the Guangzhou Shipyard in China, and a Stena E-Flexer Responsible ship recycling In situations where we need to recycle a ship, we will use an being built at Avic Weihai Shipyard, which we will charter longRecycling ships that have reached the end of their lives in a safe approved yard, and carry out the work in line with EU ship term from Stena. and environmentally-sound way is a critical link in the shipping recycling regulations and the principles of the International industry’s value chain. We rarely recycle ships, because we typically Maritime Organisation (IMO)’s Hong Kong International ConvenThe mega-freight ferries are part of our newbuilding programme, sell the vessels we own long before their end-of-life. The last ship tion. The Convention aims to ensure that ships being recycled at which helps us deliver the transport capacity our customers we recycled was Lysblink Seaways in 2015 after it ran aground in the end of their operational lives do not pose unnecessary risks need, while making our operations more efficient. They are the Scotland and was deemed to be beyond repair. The recycling work to safety and human health or the environment. first DFDS-owned vessels built according to Tier 2 IMO EEDI was done at a local Scottish shipyard. (Energy Efficiency Design Index) standards, which set much lower We are in the process of preparing documentation for the Invenlimits for energy consumption and emissions in relation to the Even though we rarely recycle ships, it is important that we have tory of Hazardous Materials (IHM) required by the IMO and the ship’s capacity and engine power. So although there is certainly policies in place to outline what happens when we do. The InterEU ship recycling regulation. We are on track to complete this an environmental impact from building new ships, it is balanced national Ship Recycling Association (ISRA) represents shipyards work by the deadline of the end of 2020. In addition, the vessel by the new ships’ high energy efficiency. with strong environmental records. As members, we have develprocurement system is being developed to handle the docuoped quality standards based on protecting the environment and mentation requirements of the Hong-Kong Convention through making the recycling process safe. automated and controlled workflows. CSR Report 2019 15 Environmental Footprint Responsible Neighbour We operate in places where people live and Shifting towards hybrid and electric company cars work. So it is important that we are a responIn many of our locations, we are replacing petrol and dieselpowered company cars with electric and hybrid options. Our people sible neighbour in all areas of our business. often need to get around, for security and terminal duties or meetings, so we have quite a few company cars. However, most Our work towards being a responsible neighbour involves making of these journeys are occasional or cover short distances, which our buildings energy-efficient, shifting to hybrid and electric vehimeans there is a great case for using more hybrid and electric cles to improve air quality, and focusing on how we manage our cars and vans in our fleet. inputs (responsible procurement) and outputs (waste management). We welcome the trend towards hybrid and electric vehicles, as Energy-efficiency target on land fully-electric vehicles eliminate NOx pollutants, and hybrid In 2019, we set a target to reduce our land-based electricity and vehicles significantly reduce these compared to diesel engines. heating consumption per FTE to 5.9 MWh by 2023. During 2019, Using hybrid and electric vehicles reduces our environmental the figure was 7.3 MWh per employee, a reduction of 7.23% footprint in our area of responsibility, as NOx affects the health from 2018. of people working near diesel engines. Tackling our land-based energy consumption in our offices, In Sweden, the transition for company cars is expected to be almost warehouses and terminals is a key part of reducing our overcomplete in 2020 as the older petrol or diesel-powered vehicles are all emissions. However, one challenge is that many buildings replaced. In the UK and Northern Ireland, half of the cars used by contracts include energy consumption. This can make it difficult terminal staff, security and managers are hybrid or fully electric. to hit reduction targets in certain locations, as we have limited means to control, report and audit consumption handled by In 2020, we will review our company car policy to speed up the third parties. change from diesel and petrol to hybrid and electric options. For example, we are already planning to install charging stations at Building an energy-efficient HQ our Copenhagen HQ. Construction began on our new HQ in Copenhagen in 2019. Making sure it is energy-efficient is a top priority. We emphasise Responsible input and output management sustainability in key decision-making for the building, which will We identify problems locally, which support our work to improve be certified to DGNB Gold standards. It will be fitted with solar how we manage material inputs as well as outputs or waste. panels and will operate a sophisticated recycling scheme. From the outset, it has been designed to support and enhance our people’s well-being by providing a high -quality indoor climate. CSR Report 2019 16 Environmental Footprint Eliminating plastic consumption In 2019, one of our biggest efforts on improving input management focused on our English Channel routes. The removal of single-use Land-based energy consumption (MWh) per FTE: Target plastics has been completed within the food and beverage areas, and is in line with the forthcoming UK plastic packaging tax of 2019 activities: 2023 2022. We are also working with the leading suppliers and manu• Replacing old petroland diesel-powered facturers of sustainable packaging from managed forests. company cars with electric and hybrid Sustainable food suppliers options wherever we can. • Reducing single-use plastic consumption 8.3 8.6 Sourcing sustainable ingredients from responsible suppliers is on passenger ferries. 7.9 the core of the Field to Ferry project, launched in the UK in 2019. The project is reducing food miles by selecting local suppliers and • Field to Ferry project, focusing on selecting sustainable, local, and as far as 7.3 consolidating supplies into as few trucks as possible before they possible organic ingredients for the food are delivered to our ferries. Each local supplier has a strong focus on our passenger routes. on provenance, traceability and sustainability; all factors that • Launching waste management projects to 5.9 are given key consideration in DFDS’ uncompromising search for investigate how to increase recycling on quality for our ferry passengers. ferries. • Working with environmental specialists Waste management to rearrange reefer trailers in terminals Within output management, our passenger ferries tend to be the to reduce industrial noise from cooling largest source of waste production. They are also challenging systems that affects residents. places to sort and recycle waste due to the limited space on board to separate rubbish, and our dependency on complex waste disposal agreements at the ports. Solving these problems demands creative solutions, and a number of our teams have 2020 plans been working on this in 2019. • Work continuously to achieve our 2023 target for energy-efficiency per employee. • Install electric car charging stations in the parking areas of our Copenhagen HQ. • Increase the number of hybrid and/or 2016 2017 2018 2019 2023 electric cars in our fleet. • Review our company car policy to drive the change from diesel and petrol to SDGs Projects Policies hybrid and electric options. • Environmental Policy • Review waste management contracts • Supplier Code of Conduct across locations in DFDS. CSR Report 2019 17 Environmental Footprint Reducing sulphur Fuel emissions contain sulphur dioxide (SO2) which harms human and animal respiratory Vessels with scrubbers Planned scrubber systems and is a key element of acid rain. Cutting sulphur levels in fuel has been on installations the marine community’s agenda for a while. At DFDS, we are tackling this issue through our pioneering work on air cleaning systems. Reducing SO2 emissions On 1 January 2020, new, more stringent rules for the permitted maximum sulphur content in marine fuel came into effect. 23 17 Globally, there is now a 0.5% maximum limit, but the lower limits inside Emission Control Areas (ECA) will still apply. For DFDS, the North European ECA is a key trading area, and here the existing level of 0.1% remains. International legislation allows for two ways of cutting SO2 emissions. Companies can use low sulphur fuels, or install advanced air cleaning systems to remove SO2 from engine exhausts. These air cleaning systems are also known as ‘scrubbers’. Based on data from the refining industry, removing sulphur 2019 award We were one of the pioneers in deploying scrubbers. Ficaria Seaduring the refining process results in more greenhouse gas emisways had the first DFDS system installed back in 2009, and the sions per ton of fuel than removing the same amount of sulphur system has just completed the first 10 years of successful use. dioxide through a scrubber on a vessel. Removing sulphur during the refining process For this reason, these advanced air cleaning systems will remain In today’s world, we believe scrubbers are the most viable and our preference until new advances in technology and/or fuel best available option to combat SO2 and other air pollution partitypes can provide a more sustainable solution. cles. Compared to the alternatives, there is also a greenhouse gas benefit to this technology. In 2019, we received yet another environmental award for our pioneering work on maritime scrubber installations. CSR Report 2019 18 Environmental Footprint Improve Air Quality Improving air quality – including reducing greenSO2, NOx and particle matters In 2019, seven of our ships had shore power connections, one Cutting sulphur emissions was a major focus area in 2019, in being our newbuilding delivered in 2019. The same is true of our house gases (GHG) – remains a key priority in preparation for the 0.5% global maximum sulphur limit, which two other newbuildings delivered in 2019, after a smaller retroour CSR strategy. We also focus on reducing came into effect on 1st January 2020. To ensure we complied fit. The three remaining newbuildings to be delivered in 2020 will local air pollution of SO2, NOx and black carbon. with the regulation, we retrofitted 23 of our ships with scrubbers be equipped with shore power supply. One of our existing vessels by the end of 2019. We plan on retrofitting 12 more and will is also to be retrofitted with shore power supply in 2020. Being transparent on GHG emissions receive five newbuildings all equipped with scrubbers. You can Our customers increasingly ask for GHG data for their interacread more on SO2 regulation and scrubbers on p. 18. In 2019, we also successfully tested gas-to-liquid (GTL) fuels on tions with us, and we are naturally keen to help with all such tug masters in the Copenhagen terminal. GTL fuel reduces odour, requests. However, without globally-agreed standards for such Our work to cut emissions of NOx and particle matter includes NOx emissions, particle pollution and noise compared to running calculations, it is difficult to make meaningful comparisons installing shore power supply on vessels, which means we can vehicles on diesel or other conventional fuels, which improves air between companies and modes of transport. As work on standswitch off auxiliary engines during port stay. Shore power sigquality in and around terminals. ards continues, we remain committed to being as transparent as nificantly improves local air quality, and has the potential to be possible in this area. emission-free if derived from renewable electricity sources. In 2019, our emissions of CO2 equivalents were estimated at 2,196,000 tonnes, showing an increase from 2018. This increase is mainly because of the extra tonnage we added to our fleet Average fuel consumption of the DFDS fleet Average fuel consumption of the DFDS fleet through the acquisition of UN Ro-Ro in the second half of 2018. Fuel consumption (g/GT/Nm) 12 month moving average UN Ro-Ro was included in the 2019 calendar year emissions. 97% of the GHG emissions we are responsible for come from the vessels we operate. So our ferries warrant extra attention. 6,5 While our total CO2 emissions have increased as a result of 6,3 growing our business, we continue to cut emissions per unit by 6,1 Fuel consumption (g/GT/Nm) reducing average fuel consumption. 5,9 5,7 For example, the inclusion of Turkish ferries in our total fleet has 5,5 increased our total CO2 emissions, but significantly improved 5,3 our energy efficiency per ship because of their larger size and 5,1 better energy efficiency. We will continue to work hard on 4,9 reducing GHG emissions, both for individual ferries and across 4,7 our whole network. 4,5 2007 2008 2009 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 2016 2017 2018 2019 CSR Report 2019 19 Environmental Footprint Setting emission targets for our ships We are fully committed to the International Maritime OrganigCO2 per gross tonnage-nautical mile GHG Status GHG Target sation (IMO)’s GHG strategy. Complementing this, we also want to be progressive in how we cut back on our GHG emissions. 2019 activities 20 While the exact details of metrics, baseline and allocations of • Investing in MASH Energy, a start-up producing biofuels from agricultural waste. 18 17.5 various shipping elements are still subject to discussion by IMO, we have decided to use “Gross Tonnage multiplied by distance • Running detailed tests to understand scrubbers’ effect on 16 14.4 travelled” when reporting on GHG emissions performance. removing particles from exhausts. 14 13.5 • Installing scrubbers on three vessels in our Turkish 12.4 12 Based on a 2008 baseline of 17.5 grams CO2 per GT-mile, the flagged fleet. 2023 target is set at 12.4 grams CO2 per GT-mile. The 2030 target • Installing shore power supply on Pearl Seaways sailing 10 9.6 between Oslo and Copenhagen. 8 is set at 9.6 grams CO2 per GT-mile. We are therefore aiming for a 45.1% reduction between 2008 and 2030. • Investing in optimised hull condition and performance on 6 a number of vessels 4 The development from 2008 to 2019 showed a reduction of • Successfully testing gas-to-liquid (GTL) fuel on tug mas2 22.9%. To reach the 2023 target, we must further reduce emisters in the Copenhagen terminal. 0 sions per GT-mile by 8.1% from the 2019 level. Achieving the • Investing in upgraded propulsion on Cote Des Flandres. 2008 2018 2019 2023 2030 2030 target requires a 28.9% reduction from 2019 levels. • Testing steel sails on Lysbris Seaways. To reach our 2023 and 2030 targets, we have identified several necessary actions. These include fleet replacement and environ2020 plans mental upgrading; continuous improvements to energy consump• Ready to use shore power in Copenhagen port when the DFDS Group’s CO2e emissions tion; actively engaging in developing and testing new means of facility on land is finished. (1,000 tonnes) 2019 2018 2017 2016 propulsion and energy generation, and participating in testing low • Install shore power supply on Crown Seaways sailing carbon fuels such as biofuels. We further explain our decarbonibetween Oslo and Copenhagen. CO2e emissions 2,196 1,879 1,590 1,527 sation approach and work on p. 21. • Invest in new scrubber for Crown Seaways. DFDS records the Group’s CO2 equivalent (CO2e) emissions covering scope 1 and 2, • Invest in nine scrubbers for three vessels in our Turkish as defined in the GHG Protocol Corporate Accounting and Reporting Standard. We flagged fleet. include all DFDS sites, ferries and trucks, and we record fuel consumption using an SDGs Policies • Invest in three scrubber installations for French and LithISO 14064-certified software tool to calculate the emissions. • Environmental policy uanian flags. • GHG Policy • Continue testing GTL fuel in other places and on other types of vehicles. • Operate our fleet efficiently to reduce CO2 emissions. International shipping’s GHG emissions targets • Continue to focus on hull resistance and optimal condition of Compared to the base year of 2008, international shipping should: the hull coating, and upgrade the vessels when applicable. – Reduce its CO2 emissions per transport work by a minimum • Continue to look at alternative ways of CO2 reduction 40% by 2030 and propulsion. – Reduce the total GHG emissions by a minimum of 50% by 2050 CSR Report 2019 20 Decarbonisation Water Air H2O O H H At DFDS, we fully support the decarboni­sation mission. While energy efficiency continues Wind Power Electrolysis Hydrogen Ammonia Plant Ammonia Zero emissions to be a key priority, it will not be enough to Offshore Offshore Production fleet H H achieve C02-neutral transport. We have to NH3 NH3 N adopt alternative fuels based on renewable 1.008 H H energy, if our industry is to truly transform and deliver on decarboni­sation. Partnerships for long-term solutions We also think it is vital to bring the energy and shipping sectors Taking steps towards zero emissions shipping. In 2019, we joined ZEEDS (Zero Emission Energy Distribution at closer together. So in 2020, we plan to host a conference on The long-term path towards zero emissions shipping undeniably Sea), a partnership dedicated to the long-term work to establish zero emission fuels to try to establish a joint flagship project on requires the industry to move away from today’s fleets and stop new forms of bunkering ships at sea to reduce the need for dockPower-to-X fuel. burning fossil fuels. ing, and to enable faster, greener and more efficient shipping in the future. The partnership envisions that the infrastructure of the Paving the way for renewable fuels For DFDS, the next significant step in this direction is to begin future is composed of fuel hubs set up next to offshore wind turThe commercial viability of renewable fuels is still held back replacing fossil fuels with biofuels. This will allow us to continue bines. The energy produced by the wind turbines would be used to by a number of uncertainties. The demand for renewable fuels using our existing fleet without incurring major changes to produce hydrogen from water, and ammonia a clean fuel would depends on price differentials between black and green energy; engines and equipment. To support our aims in this area, we have be made from hydrogen and nitrogen extracted from the air. availability; bunker infrastructure; rules and regulations; uncerinvested in the start-up, MASH Energy in 2019 , a biofuel protainties around measurement, and potential special rules for ducer that produces CO2 neutral biofuel from agricultural waste. We also joined the Getting to Zero Coalition that is committed to passenger ferries. getting commercially-viable, deep-sea, zero-emission vessels into However, the major transition will be the long-term move operation by 2030. The coalition is led by the Global Maritime Evening out the price gap between fossil and renewable fuels towards achieving zero emission shipping that relies on a new Forum (GMF), the Friends of Ocean Action, and the World Economic will be critical to driving adoption and enabling us to build truly generation of ships. We firmly believe in the potential of a new Forum. It includes more than 90 companies within the maritime, zeroemission ships. We can help by engaging in dialogue with generation of sustainable fuels for shipping, created entirely from energy, infrastructure and finance sectors. Facilitating processes partners and open innovation initiatives, to discover technologies renewable energy, such as offshore wind power. that could lead to innovative solutions is an important role, and and synergies that will help drive down the cost of renewables. one that we wish to take on. So in 2020, we plan to create a mariWe also actively participate in the EU’s European Sustainable Finding viable alternatives to fossil fuels that can support carbon time test platform on our cargo ferry, ARK Germania. The platform Shipping Forum (ESSF) and the International Marine Organisation’s neutral transportation needs cross-sector collaboration and a will enable our partners to easily test fuel cells and solutions that (IMO) Marine Environment Protection Committee (MEPC), to use willingness to experiment. So we continuously look for partners are not yet mature but show great potential. our influence in political processes. who are pursuing ambitious visions. CSR Report 2019 21 From agricultural waste to biofuel for ships DFDS has invested in MASH Energy which is developing a method to produce commerciallyviable biofuel from agricultural waste. In this way, and by testing the fuel on our ships, we can help create realistic alternatives to fossil fuels. Logistics Continuous efforts towards reducing empty In 2019, our empty running percentage was 22.7%, which unforIn order to be a responsible neighbour and meet the strictest limits on tunately represents an increase from 21.6% in 2018. exhaust emissions, we invest in trucks with the highest possible Euro kilometres, and securing environmentallyclass engines. Today, 94% of our 640 trucks are Euro 5 or 6 certified. friendly equipment when renewing our fleet of From 2018-2019, the total number of driven kilometres trailers and trucks, remain key priorities in our increased by 11%. The increase reflects an overall expansion of In 2019, we bought 20 new trucks as the first of 47 vehicles coming Logistics division. our business and services provided. In the same period, however, to the UK. The vehicles effectively reduce harmful gas emissions while our empty running measured in kilometres increased by 16.6%, being very fuel-efficient; they are also equipped with high-quality which shows that we have not been able to reduce or maintain a communication systems. Choosing these trucks was part of our pracCutting back on empty kilometres linear relationship between total kilometres and empty kilometres. tice of replacing vehicles every three years to ensure optimal safety Reducing the distance our trucks drive with no payload is by far the and efficiency. most important factor in making our haulage operations more enviThe increase in empty running is partly due to our acquisition of Speronmentally-friendly. Reducing or avoiding empty running is critical cial Cargo which was integrated into our operational system midIn line with our ambitions, we also bought 50 new, more because it enables optimisation of our fleet of trucks, which leads 2019. Their empty running has historically been higher than that of environmentally-friendly reefer containers. These refrigerate to fuel reductions and thereby reduced CO2 emissions. other cargo companies traffics due to their niche type of equipment. using carbon dioxide, which is non-ozone depleting, and cuts the global warming impact of the cooling system to a minimum, We have implemented Track and Trace on our trucks to track our Another reason is that the share of forwarded volumes as a compared with conventional cooling systems. hauliers, increase transparency and make it easier to monitor percentage of our total haulier costs decreased from 2018 to empty kilometres. We are working to implement the system in all 2019. Purchasing transportation services from third parties does Empty kilometres relevant locations, and progress is going according to plan. We have not include their potential empty running in our calculations. set ambitious targets to increase bookings that are GPStracked So when the share of forwarders decreases, the registration of from 26% in 2019 to 95% in 2020. empty kilometres will increase. Our Cargo Balance Initiative (CBI) visualises existing data to improve With kilometres, fuel and CO2 savings as benefits, we will con2017 2020 target logistics planning. Using the system, our people can quickly identify tinue to focus on reducing empty running and strengthen our areas where there are imbalances and implement corrective actions. The CBI also helps our planners plan ahead more easily, so their efforts. In 2020, we aim to reduce empty running to 20.4%. 20.5% 20.4% truck levels match incoming trailers. CBI is up and running in our Investing in a green fleet 2018 offices in Immingham (UK), Vlaardingen (Netherlands), Hamburg Travelling distances and moving cargo inevitably leave an envi(Germany), Ghent (Belgium) and Gothenburg (Sweden). ronmental footprint. To make sure ours is as small as possible, we try to use biofuel to replace conventional fossil fuels. In Sweden, 21.6% Reporting on empty running for example, 98% of the trucks in our fleet in Gothenburg use 2019 Although we have improved our efforts to reduce empty running, 98-100% biofuels, while 80% of the trucks in Karlshamn use unfortunately we have not managed to cut this back entirely. 85-90% biofuels. 22.7% CSR Report 2019 23 Caring Employer ensures that sustainable business is also about people Caring The strategic theme, ‘Caring Employer’ supports SDG 3 and 5. We use the SDGs and our CSR strategy as a framework to direct our work towards becoming an even more caring Employer employer. Within this framework, our ambitions are to: Ensure well-being for all employees We see our employees as valued people and not only as employees. Therefore we support their physical and mental Ambition health – i.e. their overall well-being. We want our employees to be happy when they go to work and when they go home. Be an inclusive workplace Well-being for Inclusive Opportunities Employing a multicultural workforce, we seek inclusivity all employees workplace to do good encompassing differences in ethnicity, gender, language, age, sexual orientation, religion, socio-economic status, physical and mental ability, thinking styles, experience and education. We believe diverse groups and teams make better decisions. Provide opportunities to do good We cherish the idea of engaging the company, individuals and UN Sustainable Development Goals groups of colleagues at DFDS to take initiatives to do good and to care about each other in the local communities where we operate. CSR Report 2019 24 Caring Employer Well-being for all employees Our people are more than just employees. ways we try to reduce lost-time injuries and reported near-misses We want them to be healthy and happy when are through our Global Ship Management System, our safety reporting, and our work towards creating a no-blame culture. they come to work and when they go home. That is why we focus on their overall well-being Health and safety on land by looking at both physical and mental health. On land LTIF in 2019 was 6.73. Here we saw an increase compared to both 2017 (5.53) and 2018 (3.81). We suspect the reason for the low level in 2018 is due to uncertainty of the data, and not to Safety has always been fundamental in shipping. Naturally, our a significant improvement in safety performance. To avoid this hapideal is zero harm to any of our people. However, operating a pening again, we improved our data collection procedures in 2019 business where 45% of our employees work in high-risk working and as a result, LTIF increased significantly. The increase is not be environments means it is hard to achieve the ideal state. interpreted as lower safety levels on land, but instead reflects more reliable data. Although we improved data collection procedures in The KPI lost-time-injury-frequency (LTIF) measures the ratio 2019, we intend to further strengthen these in the future. between the number of accidents causing inability to work for more than 24 hours, per one million hours worked. We have set Our target for LTIF in 2023 is 5.0, and to reach this, we continue LTIF targets for 2023 on both land and sea, to ensure we follow to emphasise local enforcement and strengthened awareness and our performance closely and that we make our operations as safe procedures. Management follow-up on all levels is also critical and as they can be. will be a key focus point for 2020. Health and safety at sea Mental health programmes At sea, in 2019, we saw a positive trend as LTIF on board our Looking after the well-being of our people also includes their ships dropped from 5.04 in 2018 to 4.52 in 2019. This puts us mental health., and raising awareness about such issues is an well on the way towards achieving our 2023 target of 3.5. important part of this. As their work sometimes entails long absences from family and friends, seafarers in particular are more We also use near-miss reports to measure our safety perforvulnerable to mental health issues. mance at sea. These are hazardous incidents that could lead to a collision without corrective action. In 2019, there were an However, mental health affects everyone, including colleagues average 55.13 near-miss reports per ship. working in our offices as well as port personnel and truck drivers. We try to start conversations across DFDS about mental health and We stress to all our people the importance of honestly reporting any be clear that it is okay not to feel okay. These are vital conversasituation that involves a compromise of safety. So our target of 48 tions because mental health issues are more taboo than physical near-miss reports reflects a minimum average per ship. The main ones, which adds to the stigmatisation of mental illnesses. CSR Report 2019 25 Caring Employer We have put in place a number of mental health programmes which offer counselling and training courses for DFDS leaders. They teach them how to recognise early signs of mental health problems in Safety performance colleagues, and how to help them get the right professional help. 2019 activities Land: Lost-time Incident Frequency (LTIF) Target Promoting an active lifestyle • Forming a partnership with start-up company Scoutbase 2023 to improve early identification of risks to safety and We want to inspire to a healthier and more active lifestyle, while bringing our people closer together through shared experiences. well-being at sea. Taking risk identification beyond current 8.38 industry standards, this tool allows seafarers to anony5.53 6.73 To do that, we have set up several sports teams across the Group. 3.81 5.00 mously share their experiences whenever they need to. • Using Safety Observation Cards on shipyards for Employee engagement surveys newbuildings to make sure we comply with our own 2016 2017 2018 2019 2023 We conduct regular engagement surveys to gain valuable insight standards. into how our people are doing, and to work out the areas where we • Implementing our Global Ship Management System on need to improve and become a better employer. Sea: Lost-time Incident Frequency (LTIF) Target our new Ro-Ro ferries from China, to ensure uniform 2023 standards and high safety levels. The response rate was high at 83%, even with 1,300 more • Completing 9,504 on-line safety lessons. 3,998 users employees than in 2017. It was also well above the external registered for our e-learning safety system, which 7.16 benchmark of 74-77% for comparable companies. Our two main 6.40 engagement parameters – Satisfaction & Motivation and Loyalty reflects a small increase from 3,923 in 2018. 5.04 4.52 3.5 • Running our employee engagement survey to investi– show good results above external benchmarks. The results also gate well-being. show that one in four managers are top scorers on Leadership. • Expanding our mental health programme in the UK and 2016 2017 2018 2019 2023 France. We found areas to improve too. Loyalty scores were much higher than those for motivation, suggesting a potential risk that our • Strengthening the relationship between seafarers and Sea: Near-miss reports per vessel Target people are staying with us but are not completely motivated. their families in Business Unit Mediterranean through a 2023 new mental health programme. The survey also highlighted the need for us to keep making sure employees feel they have equal opportunities, indicating that our • Running awareness training on mental health. 73 67 focus on inclusion and diversity is wellplaced. To follow up on 64 survey results, we implement action tools for managers, focusing 2020 plans 55 specifically on immediate line managers and working conditions as • Continue our collaboration with Scoutbase and look into 48 the main drivers for increasing engagement. possibilities for implementing the safety and well-being tool for more ferries. • Get higher numbers of registered users and online module completion in the e-learning safety system. SDGs Policies • Reflect the findings of the latest engagement survey in • Health, Safety & Environmental Policy our strategy and daily operations. • Continue to strengthen mental health awareness and expand mental health programmes. 2016 2017 2018 2019 2023 CSR Report 2019 26 Caring Employer Health and safety We have a strong safety culture. Our goal is to Local safety enforcement on land Fatal accident keep our people, passengers and customers’ Because safety is crucial at sea, our high safety standards Tragically, there was a fatal accident on board our ship, Ephesus naturally extend to a strong safety culture on land. Ashore, our Seaways in Trieste on 28 September 2019. A fire watchman, goods safe at all times, whether at sea or on approach to safety is to empower local management teams to employed by an external company overseeing the loading of land. We strive to continuously improve our take responsibility locally. hazardous cargo, was hit by a trailer on board the ship. overall health and safety performance. Safety management is therefore tailored to local rules and Although immediate assistance was provided and a rescue team regulations, and in line with the high minimum standards set out arrived shortly after, it was too late to save the man’s life. The It is our aim to provide industry-leading health and safety supin our Health, Safety & Environmental Policy. Our approach to police have not yet concluded investigations into the accident. port; to prevent and reduce risks, and to protect our employees safety is based on risk. We set more safety controls and formal and stakeholders. Our safety culture is embedded in The DFDS inspection regimes for higher-risk locations like port terminals Our Health & Safety team always works closely with authorities Way and is outlined in our Code of Business Conduct and Health, than for lower-risk places like offices. to support their investigations. We also looking into the accident Safety & Environmental Policy. to find out what we can do to make sure a similar tragedy does In Immingham, UK, our behavioural safety initiative received not happen again. Safety management at sea Occupational Health & Safety ISO45001 certification in 2019, At sea, we operate according to our Global Ship Management replacing the old OHSAS18001. Companies have three years to System (GSMS). Our newbuildings all use the GSMS to meet prepare for the transition, and our Immingham team was pleased Causes of minor accidents on land our safety standards. In 2019, we implemented a Harassment to be certified well ahead of the March 2021 deadline. This was & Bullying policy in this system, to comply with the Maritime because of a positive audit report on our well-organised and proLabour Convention. active risk-based approach to health and safety. UK customers are 13% increasingly asking for safety accreditations in tender processes, Struck by a moving/falling/flying object Our CEO and experts from our Technical Organisation, Marine and our documented evidence in this area means we can meet Standard and Fleet Management carry out frequent reviews to those expectations. 47% 10% Other Struck by a identify and establish safeguards against all risks to people, ships moving vehicle and the environment, and to make sure we are always ready for Minor accidents and unsafe conditions, behaviour and actions maritime authority inspections. happen much more often than major accidents and injuries. 14% Struck by fixed or Therefore, we focus on preventing minor accidents to help create stationary object We monitor and report all maritime safety measures and a safer overall work environment and prevent major incidents security factors for our ships, including any incidents on board. from happening. We have done a lot of work on this approach in We follow the Maritime Labour Convention and codes of Interlocal Health & Safety teams, particularly in Immingham, UK, and 33% 35% national Safety Management and International Ship and Port we aim to share best practice across the Group. In 2019, the most Slip/trip/fall Manual handling Injured same level whilst handling/lifting/carrying Facility Security. common causes of minor accidents were slips, trips or falls, or involved manual handling (i.e. handling, lifting or carrying). CSR Report 2019 27 Caring Employer Inclusive Workplace We believe a diverse workplace is an effective workplace. Diversity provides a broad spectrum of competencies and better business choices, based on each individual’s unique contribution. Setting diversity targets Bringing together people with a variety of backgrounds and expertise creates a culture where different viewpoints are acknowledged, which helps to prevent decision-making being based on habits and one-sidedness. In 2019, we set a target of a minimum of 30% minority representation by 2023. Our performance measurement focuses on improvements in gender diversity. However, to secure a workforce that is truly diverse, minority representation also relates to race, ethnic background, religion, sexual orientation, age, level of joining our Executive Management Team and one being promoted Moving with Pride education and socioeconomic status. to VP. Looking at the EMT in isolation, 33% of the positions are We are not limiting our efforts on diversity and inclusivity to held by women. gender. In 2019, we invited our Copenhagen HQ employees and The maritime and logistics industry has traditionally been their families to join the Copenhagen Pride Parade. associated with male attributes and continues to be so today, It is essential we lead by example. So the changes in our leadership especially at sea. The industry’s lack of appeal to women chalare vital steps on the road to us becoming truly diverse. We still The parade is a culture and human rights festival showcasing the lenges initiatives to balance gender, which is why we believe it is have some distance to travel. Women make up 26% at employee LGBTQ community and the city of Copenhagen’s diversity and so important that we make a particular effort to focus on gender level but only 17% of managers. inclusiveness. By participating in the Pride Parade, we wanted to diversity. So we are working hard to change perceptions of the send a clear signal that we support equality, diversity and incluindustry and make it equally attractive to women. To help us hit our target, we intensified our focus on diversity in 2019: sion, and respect the rights of every individual. • our VPs have all adopted individual targets; Progress on gender diversity • we are continuing to promote diversity in recruitment by using SDGs Policies Women hold 33% of the seats on our Board of Directors. We are a gender decoder; • Diversity and Inclusion Policy proud to have met our target at this leadership level. For sen• we have participated in campaigns to increase the industry’s • Code of Business Conduct ior managers, our proportion of women increased significantly appeal to women; and between 2018 and 2019, from 10% to 19%, due to two women • we have run awareness training and diversity workshops. CSR Report 2019 28 Caring Employer Gender ratio in DFDS (%) Gender ratio Female Male 2019 activities • Setting diversity goals at VP level based on ambitious target but realistic targets. Overall Senior Board • Launching the “GirlPower” campaign with The Blue workforce management of Directors Denmark (Det Blå Danmark). It highlighted talented and focused young women in maritime careers, including 72 74 77 75 85 85 90 81 67 50 67 67 30% 70% our own Saira Haider, Product Owner in Logistics. • Running diversity awareness workshops. For example, we hosted ‘More Women at Sea’ onboard Crown Seaways, arranged by the Danish Shipping and Maritime Development Center. • Rolling out an inclusivity programme on a number of our UK and French vessels to create more opportunities for minority groups, particularly people with physical or intellectual disabilities. • Participating in Copenhagen Pride Parade to support equality, inclusion and diversity in the workplace. 28 26 23 25 15 15 10 19 33 50 33 33 • Continuing to promote diversity in recruitment by using 2016 2017 2018 2019 2016 2017 2018 2019 2016 2017 2018 2019 a gender decoder. Gender ratio on land and sea (%) 2020 plans • Follow up on targets and action plans from our VP initiative. • Facilitate internal diversity community sharing challenges, best practice and good ideas. • Give better access to internal communication sites to 29 % 22 % include all DFDS people, whether working at sea or on land. • Engage in the ‘We Carry for Women’ project to support Land Sea female entrepreneurs and gender equality in Turkey. • Sign and support Danish Shipping’s charter for more women in shipping. • Implement the diversity and inclusion initiatives in 71 % 78 % management’s operating procedures. CSR Report 2019 29 Same type of job, different people Alisa Paivina Kim Heiberg Sarah Holloway Ayberk Eskin Freight Commercial Director Route Director UK Commercial Director Route Director Lithuania Denmark UK Turkey Caring Employer Providing opportunities to do good We cherish a culture where our people care ferries. With this initiative, we try to give homeless and vulnerable people a fantastic day to look forward to; a day where they about each other, the communities we work are the centre of attention. in, and for individuals in society in vulnerable situations. Providing opportunities to do Every year, through our strategic partnership with WeShelter, we good means empowering employees to seize chances to help others. Mapping CSR initiatives encourage ferry passengers to donate to the cause, and in 2019, we ran a fund-raiser among our people in Copenhagen. Team-building for charity We want combine team-building activities and charity work. 38 initiatives Long before we had a formal CSR strategy, DFDS had a tradition Twice in 2019, different Business Unit Baltic teams in Klaipeda, of launching initiatives that benefit colleagues and people in Lithuania, organised team-building days focused on cleaning and local communities. So part of our work in 2019 was to identify improving facilities in a cancer treatment centre, and in a home and map these activities and collect them in a portfolio. This has for disabled people. Giving help to others while working together showed us where we are particularly active, and what types of and getting to know each other better is an inspiring and successinitiative we tend to engage in. ful model, and we want to do more of this in future. At the end of 2019, a total of 38 We are aiming for an equal distribution of initiatives throughout Charity runs our network. Our mapping showed that charity runs, teambuildMany running events support and donate to charities, and we are initiatives were reported in the CSR porting for charity, and donations to hospitalised children, cancer involved with and participate in a number of them. folio under Opportunities to Do Good. research, poor families and homeless people were the things our people connected with most strongly and that they wanted to In 2019, DFDS Seaways in Sweden sponsored Vårruset engage in. (“The Spring Race”). The event is a race for women that supports the Swedish Childhood Cancer fund. Our people supported 10th anniversary Christmas lunch for the homeless and took part in several other running and hiking events for Homeless ness and loneliness can be particularly difficult at charity across our operations, in places such as Lithuania, TurChristmas. While families gather everywhere, homeless people key and the UK. with no relatives to be with at this time can feel even more like Commitment and practice outsiders in society. As outlined in our Code of Business Conduct, we provide community support and donations, through knowledge, services or We have resources and an ambition to help those in need. So for direct financial contributions. We have clear reporting lines and the past decade, we have worked with WeShelter to organise an carefully ensure that any donation or sponsorship is not used as annual Christmas lunch in Copenhagen on board one of our cruise a disguise for bribery. CSR Report 2019 31 Caring Employer Narvik Location of initiatives Charity runs Bodø Fauske Sweden Ports & Operational Offices Fundraising and donations Belgium Mo i Rana • Charity runs Operational Partner Offices • Bake sale and window washing for charity Teambuilding for charity Mosjøen • Christmas presents for single mothers • Donations to Seafarers’ Home Ferry Network Turkey Sideport Services Network Trondheim Denmark Container • Annual book donations Network to schools Ålesund FI • Fundraising for the Danish Red Cross • Donation campaign for Istanbul Marathon Rail Partner Network Lerwick Florø NO Estonia United Kingdom • Making donations instead of receiving Christmas Bergen • Donation to cancer charity Kotka presents Haugesund Drammen Oslo St. Petersburg • Fundraising for hospitalised children Stavanger Moss Kapellskär Hanko Tallinn Larvik Fredrikstad • Fundraising for sea rescue service Fort William Aberdeen Brevik i France is k Halden ld Kristiansand • Hiking 26 miles to support cancer SE Pa EE • Blood donations during working hours Greenock Bellshill Larkhall Lilla Edet RU • Charity run sponsorship to support a village • Pink October activities (supporting breast cancer) Newcastle Gothenburg Ventspils primary school Ballina IE Belfast n Riga LV • Yearly coin collection to support hospitalised am n sh Liepaja • Supporting mental health campaigns Mullagh h m ag rl Manchester ic g Ka children er ia n ö e bj er Co Dublin Liverpool Es peal • Supporting local sports teams ed Klaipeda M Fr Warrington DK LT Immingham • Terminal visit for disabilities football club Cork Germany RU Vilnius rd UK fo Grimsby Kiel Kaliningrad • Fundraising for treatment of employee's er Cuxhaven BY Chesterfield • Christmas donations to children in need Wat Lübeck son's brain tumour Felixstowe Amsterdam rg Minsk • Supporting local sports teams gh h bu ut ou m o • UK branches donate to local food bank or Ha m Gravesend Rotterdam NL Poznan on rb NL Av te Br n on Pe Dover ug Zeebrugge ly ge nt n Antwerp Duisburg Ireland w ig ve PL Ne Pa ha w irk Genk Ne nk s Gh • Helping the homeless Du l a i ne g Ca oulo Mer e en DE Group initiative t B urpp BE s ie D Do LU Cologne ur ge Bettembourg Prague Lithuania s UA • Pink trailer (supporting breast cancer) Paris Ludwigshafen CZ • Teambuilding for charity (oncology centre) • Teambuilding for charity Munich SK FR Wels (home for disabled people) Salzburg • Making children’s wishes come true Passenger route initiative CH AT Ilyichevsk Lyon HU Gyula Tibod • Social programme for retired DFDS employees Newcastle-Amsterdam SL • Playground sponsor in Klaipeda gn on Busto Melzo Trieste RO • Free ferry crossing for cancer vi • Sponsored a charity run /A Maia as Novara m ira fundraising cause M • Klaipeda blood donations Sète Le Boulou • Sail with Santa event for disabled Marseille IT Netherlands and disadvantaged children PT • Christmas tree donation to local village ES Copenhagen-Oslo Poland • Christmas lunch for Valencia Ambarli Pendik Bari Yalova • Supporting children in need the homeless • Supporting special homes for single mothers GR in need TR TR Patras Tunis TN CSR Report 2019 32 ESG Key figures Target Target Environmental data Unit 2023 2019 2018 2017 2016 Social data Unit 2023 2019 2018 2017 2016 Operated ferries Ferries 63 54 45 42 Number of employees end of period FTE 8.638 8.073 7.167 7.190 Total number of days operated Days 20,460 18,937 15,020 13,728 Gender split (female/male) CO2e emissions 1,000 Total workforce % 30/70 25/75 23/77 26/74 28/72 Direct CO2e emissions (Scope 1) tonnes 2,189 1,871 1,582 1,519 Board of Directors % 30/70 33/67 33/67 50/50 33/67 1,000 Indirect CO2e emissions (Scope 2) tonnes 6.75 8.46 7.68 8.77 Senior management % 30/70 19/81 10/90 15/85 15/85 1,000 Managers** % 30/70 17/83 Total CO2e emissions tonnes 2,196 1,879 1,590 1,527 12.4 (2023) Employees** % 30/70 26/74 CO2 emissions per GT mile* gCO2 9.6 (2030) 13.5 14.4 At sea** % 30/70 22/78 15/85 On land** % 30/70 29/71 29/71 Energy consumption Total fuel consumption Tonnes 680,193 654,795 490,401 467,574 Safety at sea Fuel consumption per nautical mile g/GT/Nm 4.78 4.93 5.22 5.20 Incidents/ Lost-time injury frequency (LTIF) mill. hours 3.50 4.52 5.04 6.40 7.16 Total energy consumption TJ 29,077 24,878 21,069 20,129 Average Electricity and heating consumption Near-miss reports*** per ship 48 55 64 67 73 per land-based FTE MWh 5.9 7.3 7.9 8.6 8.3 Safety on land Oil spills Incidents/ Spills (> 1 barrel) Amount 0 0 0 0 0 Lost-time injury frequency (LTIF) mill. hours 5.00 6.73 3.81 5.53 8.38 Minor accidents Incidents 152 185 139 95 Fatalities DFDS employees Headcount 0 (Annually) 0 0 1 0 Contractors Headcount 0 (Annually) 1 1 0 0 Governance Attendance at Board meetings % 94.1 90.9 96.8 93.1 Comments * No 2016 and 2017 data. ** No data available for missing years. *** Excluding UN Ro-Ro in 2018 CSR Report 2019 33 Definition of terms Environmental data Fuel consumption per nautical mile: Expressed by gCO2 per gross tonnage-nautical mile. Only vessels operating on DFDS routes are included. Employees: Gender ratio of average FTE number of women and men in employee positions out of total number of employees at year end Excludes fuel consumption in land-based logistics transport. (excluding Senior Management and Managers). Operated ships: The number of owned and chartered vessels which were involved in DFDS’ operations during the year and whose fuel consumption Total energy consumption (TJ): Energy consumed from scope 1 and 2 At sea: Percentage split of average FTE number of women and men at is included in DFDS’ CO2 reporting. Excludes ships not included in DFDS’ energy sources, plus energy from renewable sources. Includes both landsea out of the total number of FTEs at sea at year end. fuel consumption reporting. based energy consumption and vessels’ energy consumption. On land: Percentage split of average FTE number of women and men on Total number of days operated: The total number of days operated by Electricity and heating consumption per land-based FTE: Indirect energy land out of the total number of FTEs on land at year end. the ships in DFDS’ operations during the year, and whose fuel consumpconsumption (scope 2) in operational activities for offices, warehouses tion is included in DFDS’ CO2 reporting. Excludes ships not included in and terminals, divided by average full-time equivalent number of employSafety at sea DFDS’ fuel consumption reporting. ees on land. Lost-time injury frequency (LTIF): Number of work-related accidents registered that causes a seafarer to be unable to work for more than CO2e emissions Oil spills 24 hours, per one million exposure hours. Direct CO2 emissions (Scope 1 as defined by the Greenhouse Gas Protocol): Spills (> 1 barrel): Incidents of oil spills larger than one barrel into the All direct emission sources where DFDS has operational control. This sea from vessels operating on DFDS routes. Near-miss reports: Hazardous occurrences that, under different circumincludes all use of fossil fuels for stationary combustion or transportastances, could lead to an incident if no corrective action is taken. tion, in owned, leased or rented assets. It also includes process emissions (e.g. chemical processes, industrial gases, direct methane emissions). Social data Safety on land Lost-time injury frequency (LTIF): Number of work-related accidents Indirect CO2 emissions (Scope 2): Indirect emissions related to purchased Number of employees: Average full-time equivalent number of DFDS registered which causes a land-based employee to be unable to work energy; electricity or heating/cooling where the DFDS has operational employees during the year. for more than 24 hours, per one million exposure hours. We changed control. The electricity emissions factors used are based on national gross terminology from AFR to LTIF in 2019, but our calculations are still in line electricity production mixes on a three-year rolling average (IEA Stat). The Gender split (female/male) with LTIF calculations (LTIF = lost-time accidents * 1,000,000 / number of Nordic electricity mix covers the weighted production in Sweden, Norway, Total workforce: Gender ratio between women and men in the FTE workworking hours). Finland and Denmark ,reflecting the common Nord Pool market area. force at year end. Emission factors per fuel type are based on assumptions from the IEA Minor accidents: Work-related accidents which we report, but which do methodological framework. Factors for district heating/cooling are either Board of Directors: Gender ratio between women and men in the Board not cause a land-based employee to be unable to work for more than based on actual (local) production mixes, or the average IEA stat. of Directors out of the total number of members at year end (excluding 24 hours. staff-appointed members). Total CO2e emissions: Direct CO2 emissions and indirect CO2 emissions. Fatalities Senior Management: Gender ratio of average FTE number of women and Colleagues: Number of fatalities among DFDS employees registered in CO2 emissions per GT mile: Emissions expressed by gCO2 per gross tonmen in senior management positions out of the total number of senior the reporting year. nage-nautical mile. Only vessels operating on DFDS routes are included. managers at year end. We define senior managers as Executive VPs and Excludes fuel consumption in land-based logistics transport. VPs. Contractors: Number of fatalities among third-party contractors occurring during DFDS’ operations registered in the reporting year. Energy consumption Managers: Gender ratio of average FTE number of women and men in Total fuel consumption: Total consumption of heavy fuel oil (HFO) and management positions out of the total number of managers at year end marine gas oil (MGO) on vessels operating on DFDS routes. Excludes fuel consumption in land-based logistics transport. (excluding senior management). We define a manager as someone responsible for at least one other employee. Governance Attendance at board meetings: Attendance in percentage at board meetings by its members in the reporting year. CSR Report 2019 34 “Our industry has a large footprint that we are addressing responsibly. This also means we have a big potential to make a positive difference by reducing our environmental impact.” Torben Carlsen, President and CEO of DFDS Group DFDS A/S Sundkrogsgade 11, DK-2100 Copenhagen Ø / T: +45 3342 3342 / www.dfds.com / CVR 14 19 47 11 CSR Report 2019 35
